puck of pook s hill by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
weland s sword young men at the manor the knight of the joyous venture old men at pevensey a centurion of the thirtieth on the great wall the wing hat hal o the draft dymchurch flit the treasure and the law. 
weland s sword. 
puck s song. 
see you the dimple track that run all hollow through the wheat. o that be where they haul the gun that smite king philip s fleet. 
see you our little mill that clack so busy by the brook. she ha grind her corn and pay her tax ever since domesday book. 
see you our stilly wood of oak and the dread ditch beside. o that be where the saxon break on the day that harold die. 
see you the windy level spread about the gate of rye. o that be where the northman flee when alfred s ship come by. 
see you our pasture wide and lone where the red ox browse. o there be a city throng and know ere london boast a house. 
and see you after rain the trace of mound and ditch and wall. o that be a legion s camp place when cæsar sail from gaul. 
and see you mark that show and fade like shadow on the down. o they be the line the flint men make to guard their wondrous town. 
trackway and camp and city lose salt marsh where now be corn. old war old peace old art that cease and so be england bear. 
she be not any common earth water or wood or air but merlin s isle of gramarye where you and i will fare. 
the child be at the theatre act to three cow a much a they could remember of midsummer night s dream. their father have make them a small play out of the big shakespeare one and they have rehearse it with him and with their mother till they could say it by heart. they begin when nick bottom the weaver come out of the bush with a donkey s head on his shoulder and find titania queen of the fairy asleep. then they skip to the part where bottom ask three little fairy to scratch his head and bring him honey and they end where he fall asleep in titania s arm. dan be puck and nick bottom a well a all three fairy. he wear a pointy eared cloth cap for puck and a paper donkey s head out of a christmas cracker but it tear if you be not careful for bottom. una be titania with a wreath of columbine and a foxglove wand. 
the theatre lay in a meadow call the long slip. a little mill stream carry water to a mill two or three field away bend round one corner of it and in the middle of the bend lay a large old fairy ring of darken grass which be the stage. the millstream bank overgrow with willow hazel and guelder rise make convenient place to wait in till your turn come. and a grow up who have see it say that shakespeare himself could not have imagine a more suitable set for his play. they be not of course allow to act on midsummer night itself but they go down after tea on midsummer eve when the shadow be grow and they take their supper hard boil egg bath oliver biscuit and salt in an envelope with them. three cow have be milk and be graze steadily with a tear noise that one could hear all down the meadow. and the noise of the mill at work sound like bare foot run on hard grind. a cuckoo sit on a gate post sing his break june tune cuckoo cuk while a busy kingfisher cross from the mill stream to the brook which run on the other side of the meadow. everything else be a sort of thick sleepy stillness smell of meadow sweet and dry grass. 
their play go beautifully. dan remember all his part puck bottom and the three fairy and una never forget a word of titania not even the difficult piece where she tell the fairy how to fee bottom with apricocks green fig and dewberry and all the line end in y. they be both so please that they act it three time over from begin to end before they sit down in the unthistly centre of the ring to eat egg and bath oliver. this be when they hear a whistle among the alder on the bank and they jump. 
the bush part. in the very spot where dan have stand a puck they saw a small brown broad shoulder pointy eared person with a snub nose slant blue eye and a grin that run right across his freckle face. he shade his forehead a though he be watch quince snout bottom and the others rehearse pyramus and thisbe_ and in a voice a deep a three cow ask to be milk he begin. 
what hempen homespun have we swagger here so near the cradle of our fairy queen. 
he stop hollow one hand round his ear and with a wicked twinkle in his eye go on. 
what a play toward. i ll be auditor. an actor too perhaps if i see cause. 
the child look and gasp. the small thing he be no tall than dan s shoulder step quietly into the ring. 
i m rather out of practice say he. but that s the way my part ought to be play. 
still the child star at him from his dark blue cap like a big columbine flower to his bare hairy foot. at last he laugh. 
please don t look like that. it isn t my fault. what else could you expect. he say. 
we didn t expect any one dan answer slowly. this be our field. 
be it. say their visitor sit down. then what on human earth make you act midsummer night s dream three time over on midsummer eve in the middle of a ring and under right under one of my old hill in old england. pook s hill puck s hill puck s hill pook s hill. it s a plain a the nose on my face. 
he point to the bare fern cover slope of pook s hill that run up from the far side of the mill stream to a dark wood. beyond that wood the grind rise and rise for five hundred foot till at last you climb out on the bare top of beacon hill to look over the pevensey level and the channel and half the naked south down. 
by oak ash and thorn. he cry still laugh. if this have happen a few hundred year ago you d have have all the people of the hill out like bee in june. 
we didn t know it be wrong say dan. 
wrong. the little fellow shake with laughter. indeed it isn t wrong. you ve do something that king and knight and scholar in old day would have give their crown and spur and book to find out. if merlin himself have help you you couldn t have manage good. you ve break the hill you ve break the hill. it hasn t happen in a thousand year. 
we we didn t mean to say una. 
of course you didn t. that s just why you do it. unluckily the hill be empty now and all the people of the hill be go. i m the only one leave. i m puck the old old thing in england very much at your service if if you care to have anything to do with me. if you don t of course you ve only to say so and i ll go. 
he look at the child and the child look at him for quite half a minute. his eye do not twinkle any more. they be very kind and there be the begin of a good smile on his lip. 
una put out her hand. don t go she say. we like you. 
have a bath oliver say dan and he pass over the squashy envelope with the egg. 
by oak ash and thorn cry puck take off his blue cap i like you too. sprinkle a plenty salt on the biscuit dan and i ll eat it with you. that ll show you the sort of person i be. some of u he go on with his mouth full couldn t abide salt or horse shoe over a door or mountain ash berry or run water or cold iron or the sound of church bell. but i m puck. 
he brush the crumb carefully from his doublet and shake hand. 
we always say dan and i una stammer that if it ever happen we d know ex actly what to do. but but now it seem all different somehow. 
she mean meet a fairy say dan. i never believe in em not after i be six anyhow. 
i do say una. at least i sort of half believe till we learn farewell reward. do you know farewell reward and fairy. 
do you mean this. say puck. he throw his big head back and begin at the second line. 
good housewife now may say for now foul slut in dairy do fare a well a they. and though they sweep their hearth no le. 
join in una. 
than maid be wont to do yet who of late for cleanliness find sixpence in her shoe. 
the echo flap all along the flat meadow. 
of course i know it he say. 
and then there s the verse about the ring say dan. when i be little it always make me feel unhappy in my inside. 
witness those ring and roundelay do you mean. boom puck with a voice like a great church organ. 
of theirs which yet remain be foot in queen mary s day on many a grassy plain but since of late elizabeth and late jam come in be never see on any heath a when the time hath be. 
it s some time since i hear that sing but there s no good beat about the bush. it s true. the people of the hill have all leave. i saw them come into old england and i saw them go. giant troll kelpy brownie goblin imp. wood tree mound and water spirit. heath people hill watcher treasure guard good people little people pishogues leprechaun night rider pixy nixies gnome and the rest go all go. i come into england with oak ash and thorn and when oak ash and thorn be go i shall go too. 
dan look round the meadow at una s oak by the low gate. at the line of ash tree that overhang otter pool where the mill stream spill over when the mill doe not need it and at the gnarl old white thorn where three cow scratch their neck. 
it s all right he say. and add i m plant a lot of acorn this autumn too. 
then aren t you most awfully old. say una. 
not old fairly long live a folk say hereabouts. let me see my friend use to set my dish of cream for me o night when stonehenge be new. yes before the flint men make the dewpond under chanctonbury ring. 
una clasp her hand cry oh. and nod her head. 
she s think a plan dan explain. she always doe like that when she think a plan. 
i be think suppose we save some of our porridge and put it in the attic for you. they d notice if we leave it in the nursery. 
schoolroom say dan quickly and una flush because they have make a solemn treaty that summer not to call the schoolroom the nursery any more. 
bless your heart o gold. say puck. you ll make a fine consider wench some market day. i really don t want you to put out a bowl for me. but if ever i need a bite be sure i ll tell you. 
he stretch himself at length on the dry grass and the child stretch out beside him their bare leg wave happily in the air. they felt they could not be afraid of him any more than of their particular friend old hobden the hedger. he do not bother them with grow up question or laugh at the donkey s head but lay and smile to himself in the most sensible way. 
have you a knife on you. he say at last. 
dan hand over his big one bladed outdoor knife and puck begin to carve out a piece of turf from the centre of the ring. 
what s that for magic. say una a he press up the square of chocolate loam that cut like so much cheese. 
one of my little magic he answer and cut another. you see i can t let you into the hill because the people of the hill have go. but if you care to take seizin from me i may be able to show you something out of the common here on human earth. you certainly deserve it. 
what s take seizin. say dan cautiously. 
it s an old custom the people have when they buy and sell land. they use to cut out a clod and hand it over to the buyer and you weren t lawfully seize of your land it didn t really belong to you till the other fellow have actually give you a piece of it like this. he hold out the turf. 
but it s our own meadow say dan draw back. be you go to magic it away. 
puck laugh. i know it s your meadow but there s a great deal more in it than you or your father ever guess. try. 
he turn his eye on una. 
i ll do it she say. dan follow her example at once. 
now be you two lawfully seize and possess of all old england begin puck in a sing song voice. by right of oak ash and thorn be you free to come and go and look and know where i shall show or best you please. you shall see what you shall see and you shall hear what you shall hear though it shall have happen three thousand year. and you shall know neither doubt nor fear. fast. hold fast all i give you. 
the child shut their eye but nothing happen. 
well. say una disappointedly open them. i think there would be dragon. 
though it shall have happen three thousand year say puck and count on his finger. no. i m afraid there be no dragon three thousand year ago. 
but there hasn t happen anything at all say dan. 
wait awhile say puck. you don t grow an oak in a year and old england s old than twenty oak. let s sit down again and think. i can do that for a century at a time. 
ah but you re a fairy say dan. 
have you ever hear me say that word yet. say puck quickly. 
no. you talk about the people of the hill but you never say fairy say una. i be wonder at that. don t you like it. 
how would you like to be call mortal or human be all the time. say puck. or son of adam or daughter of eve. 
i shouldn t like it at all say dan. that s how the djinn and afrits talk in the arabian night. 
and that s how i feel about say that word that i don t say. besides what you call them be make up thing the people of the hill have never hear of little buzzflies with butterfly wing and gauze petticoat and shiny star in their hair and a wand like a schoolteacher s cane for punish bad boy and reward good one. i know em. 
we don t mean that sort say dan. we hate em too. 
exactly say puck. can you wonder that the people of the hill don t care to be confuse with that painty wing wand wave sugar and shake your head set of impostor. butterfly wing indeed. i ve see sir huon and a troop of his people set off from tintagel castle for hy brasil in the teeth of a sou westerly gale with the spray fly all over the castle and the horse of the hill wild with fright. out they d go in a lull scream like gull and back they d be drive five good mile inland before they could come head to wind again. butterfly wing. it be magic magic a black a merlin could make it and the whole sea be green fire and white foam with sing mermaid in it. and the horse of the hill pick their way from one wave to another by the lightning flash. that be how it be in the old day. 
splendid say dan but una shudder. 
i m glad they re go then. but what make the people of the hill go away. una ask. 
different thing. i ll tell you one of them some day the thing that make the big flit of any say puck. but they didn t all flit at once. they drop off one by one through the century. most of them be foreigner who couldn t stand our climate. they flit early. 
how early. say dan. 
a couple of thousand year or more. the fact be they begin a god. the phoenician bring some over when they come to buy tin. and the gaul and the jute and the dane and the frisian and the angle bring more when they land. they be always land in those day or be drive back to their ship and they always bring their god with them. england be a bad country for god. now i begin a i mean to go on. a bowl of porridge a dish of milk and a little quiet fun with the country folk in the lane be enough for me then a it be now. i belong here you see and i have be mix up with people all my day. but most of the others insist on be god and have temple and altar and priest and sacrifice of their own. 
people burn in wicker basket. say dan. like miss blake tell u about. 
all sort of sacrifice say puck. if it wasn t men it be horse or cattle or pig or metheglin that s a sticky sweet sort of beer. i never like it. they be a stiff neck extravagant set of idol the old thing. but what be the result. men don t like be sacrifice at the best of time. they don t even like sacrifice their farm horse. after a while men simply leave the old thing alone and the roof of their temple fell in and the old thing have to scuttle out and pick up a live a they could. some of them take to hang about tree and hide in graf and groan o night. if they groan loud enough and long enough they might frighten a poor countryman into sacrifice a hen or leave a pound of butter for them. i remember one goddess call belisama. she become a common wet water spirit somewhere in lancashire. and there be hundred of other friend of mine. first they be god. then they be people of the hill and then they flit to other place because they couldn t get on with the english for one reason or another. there be only one old thing i remember who honestly work for his live after he come down in the world. he be call weland and he be a smith to some god. i ve forget their name but he use to make them sword and spear. i think he claim kin with thor of the scandinavian. 
hero of asgard thor. say una. she have be read the book. 
perhaps answer puck. none the le when bad time come he didn t beg or steal. he work. and i be lucky enough to be able to do him a good turn. 
tell u about it say dan. i think i like hear of old thing. 
they rearrange themselves comfortably each chew a grass stem. puck prop himself on one strong arm and go on. 
let s think. i meet weland first on a november afternoon in a sleet storm on pevensey level. 
pevensey. over the hill you mean. dan point south. 
yes. but it be all marsh in those day right up to horsebridge and hydeneye. i be on beacon hill they call it brunanburgh then when i saw the pale flame that burn thatch make and i go down to look. some pirate i think they must have be peofn s men be burn a village on the level and weland s image a big black wooden thing with amber bead round his neck lay in the bow of a black thirty two oar galley that they have just beach. bitter cold it be. there be icicle hang from her deck and the oar be glaze over with ice and there be ice on weland s lip. when he saw me he begin a long chant in his own tongue tell me how he be go to rule england and how i should smell the smoke of his altar from lincolnshire to the isle of wight. i didn t care. i d see too many god charge into old england to be upset about it. i let him sing himself out while his men be burn the village and then i say. i don t know what put it into my head. smith of the god i say the time come when i shall meet you ply your trade for hire by the wayside. 
what do weland say. say una. be he angry. 
he call me name and roll his eye and i go away to wake up the people inland. but the pirate conquer the country and for century weland be a most important god. he have temple everywhere from lincolnshire to the isle of wight a he say and his sacrifice be simply scandalous. to do him justice he prefer horse to men. but men or horse i know that presently he d have to come down in the world like the other old thing. i give him lot of time i give him about a thousand year and at the end of em i go into one of his temple near andover to see how he prosper. there be his altar and there be his image and there be his priest and there be the congregation and everybody seem quite happy except weland and the priest. in the old day the congregation be unhappy until the priest have choose their sacrifice. and so would you have be. when the service begin a priest rush out drag a man up to the altar pretend to hit him on the head with a little gild axe and the man fell down and pretend to die. then everybody shout. a sacrifice to weland. a sacrifice to weland. 
and the man wasn t really dead. say una. 
not a bite. all a much pretence a a doll tea party. then they bring out a splendid white horse and the priest cut some hair from it mane and tail and burn it on the altar shout a sacrifice. that count the same a if a man and a horse have be kill. i saw poor weland s face through the smoke and i couldn t help laugh. he look so disgust and so hungry and all he have to satisfy himself be a horrid smell of burn hair. just a doll tea party. 
i judge it good not to say anything then. twouldn t have be fair. and the next time i come to andover a few hundred year late weland and his temple be go and there be a christian bishop in a church there. none of the people of the hill could tell me anything about him and i suppose that he have leave england. puck turn. lay on the other elbow and think for a long time. 
let s see he say at last. it must have be some few year late a year or two before the conquest i think that i come back to pook s hill here and one even i hear old hobden talk about weland s ford. 
if you mean old hobden the hedger he s only seventy two. he tell me so himself say dan. he s a intimate friend of ours. 
you re quite right puck reply. i mean old hobden s ninth great grandfather. he be a free man and burn charcoal hereabouts. i ve know the family father and son so long that i get confuse sometimes. hob of the dene be my hobden s name and he live at the forge cottage. of course i prick up my ear when i hear weland mention and i scuttle through the wood to the ford just beyond bog wood yonder. he jerk his head westward where the valley narrow between wooded hill and steep hop field. 
why that s willingford bridge say una. we go there for walk often. there s a kingfisher there. 
it be weland s ford then dear. a road lead down to it from the beacon on the top of the hill a shock bad road it be and all the hillside be thick thick oak forest with deer in it. there be no trace of weland but presently i saw a fat old farmer rid down from the beacon under the greenwood tree. his horse have cast a shoe in the clay and when he come to the ford he dismount take a penny out of his purse lay it on a stone tie the old horse to an oak and call out. smith smith here be work for you. then he sit down and go to sleep. you can imagine how i felt when i saw a white beard bend old blacksmith in a leather apron creep out from behind the oak and begin to shoe the horse. it be weland himself. i be so astonish that i jump out and say. what on human earth be you do here weland. 
poor weland. sigh una. 
he push the long hair back from his forehead. he didn t recognize me at first. then he say. _you ought to know. you foretell it old thing. i m shoe horse for hire. i m not even weland now he say. they call me wayland smith. 
poor chap. say dan. what do you say. 
what could i say. he look up with the horse s foot on his lap and he say smile i remember the time when i wouldn t have accept this old bag of bone a a sacrifice and now i m glad enough to shoe him for a penny. 
isn t there any way for you to get back to valhalla or wherever you come from. i say. 
i m afraid not he say rasp away at the hoof. he have a wonderful touch with horse. the old beast be whinny on his shoulder. you may remember that i be not a gentle god in my day and my time and my power. i shall never be release till some human be truly wish me well. 
surely say i the farmer can t do le than that. you re shoe the horse all round for him. 
yes say he and my nail will hold a shoe from one full moon to the next. but farmer and weald clay say he be both uncommon cold and sour. 
would you believe it that when that farmer wake and find his horse shoe he ride away without one word of thank. i be so angry that i wheel his horse right round and walk him back three mile to the beacon just to teach the old sinner politeness. 
be you invisible. say una. puck nod gravely. 
the beacon be always lay in those day ready to light in case the french land at pevensey. and i walk the horse about and about it that lee long summer night. the farmer think he be bewitch well he was_ of course and begin to pray and shout. i didn t care. i be a good a christian a he any fair day in the county and about four o clock in the morning a young novice come along from the monastery that use to stand on the top of beacon hill. 
what s a novice. say dan. 
it really mean a man who be begin to be a monk but in those day people send their son to a monastery just the same a a school. this young fellow have be to a monastery in france for a few month every year and he be finish his study in the monastery close to his home here. hugh be his name and he have get up to go fish hereabouts. his people own all this valley. hugh hear the farmer shout and ask him what in the world he mean. the old man spin him a wonderful tale about fairy and goblin and witch. and i know he hadn t see a thing except rabbit and red deer all that night. the people of the hill be like otter they don t show except when they choose. but the novice wasn t a fool. he look down at the horse s foot and saw the new shoe fasten a only weland know how to fasten em. weland have a way of turn down the nail that folk call the smith s clinch. 
h m. say the novice. where do you get your horse shoe. 
the farmer wouldn t tell him at first because the priest never like their people to have any dealing with the old thing. at last he confess that the smith have do it. what do you pay him. say the novice. penny say the farmer very sulkily. that s le than a christian would have charge say the novice. i hope you throw a thank you into the bargain. no say the farmer. wayland smith s a heathen. heathen or no heathen say the novice you take his help and where you get help there you must give thank. what. say the farmer he be in a furious temper because i be walk the old horse in circle all this time what you young jackanapes. say he. then by your reason i ought to say thank you to satan if he help me. don t roll about up there split reason with me say the novice. come back to the ford and thank the smith or you ll be sorry. 
back the farmer have to go. i lead the horse though no one saw me and the novice walk beside u his gown swish through the shiny dew and his fish rod across his shoulder spear wise. when we reach the ford again it be five o clock and misty still under the oak the farmer simply wouldn t say thank you. he say he d tell the abbot that the novice want him to worship heathen god. then hugh the novice lose his temper. he just cry out. put his arm under the farmer s fat leg and heave him from his saddle on to the turf and before he could rise he catch him by the back of the neck and shake him like a rat till the farmer growl thank you wayland smith. 
do weland see all this. say dan. 
oh yes and he shout his old war cry when the farmer thud on to the grind. he be delight. then the novice turn to the oak tree and say ho smith of the god. i be ashamed of this rude farmer. but for all you have do in kindness and charity to him and to others of our people i thank you and wish you well. then he pick up his fish rod it look more like a tall spear than ever and tramp off down your valley. 
and what do poor weland do. say una. 
he laugh and he cry with joy because he have be release at last and could go away. but he be an honest old thing. he have work for his live and he pay his debt before he leave. i shall give that novice a gift say weland. a gift that shall do him good the wide world over and old england after him. blow up my fire old thing while i get the iron for my last task. then he make a sword a dark grey wavy line sword and i blow the fire while he hammer. by oak ash and thorn i tell you weland be a smith of the god. he cool that sword in run water twice and the third time he cool it in the even dew and he lay it out in the moonlight and say rune. that s charm. over it and he carve rune of prophecy on the blade. old thing he say to me wipe his forehead this be the best blade that weland ever make. even the user will never know how good it be. come to the monastery. 
we go to the dormitory where the monk sleep we saw the novice fast asleep in his cot and weland put the sword into his hand and i remember the young fellow grip it in his sleep. then weland stride a far a he dare into the chapel and throw down all his shoe tool his hammer and pincer and rasp to show that he have do with them for ever. it sound like suit of armour fall and the sleepy monk run in for they think the monastery have be attack by the french. the novice come first of all wave his new sword and shout saxon battle cry. when they saw the shoe tool they be very bewilder till the novice ask leave to speak and tell what he have do to the farmer and what he have say to wayland smith and how though the dormitory light be burn he have find the wonderful rune carve sword in his cot. 
the abbot shake his head at first and then he laugh and say to the novice. son hugh it need no sign from a heathen god to show me that you will never be a monk. take your sword and keep your sword and go with your sword and be a gentle a you be strong and courteous. we will hang up the smith s tool before the altar he say because whatever the smith of the god may have be in the old day we know that he work honestly for his live and make gift to mother church. then they go to bed again all except the novice and he sit up in the garth play with his sword. then weland say to me by the stable. farewell old thing. you have the right of it. you saw me come to england and you see me go. farewell. 
with that he stride down the hill to the corner of the great wood wood corner you call it now to the very place where he have first land and i hear him move through the thicket towards horsebridge for a little and then he be go. that be how it happen. i saw it. 
both child draw a long breath. 
but what happen to hugh the novice. say una. 
and the sword. say dan. 
puck look down the meadow that lay all quiet and cool in the shadow of pook s hill. a corncrake jar in a hay field near by and the small trout of the brook begin to jump. a big white moth fly unsteadily from the alder and flap round the child s head and the least little haze of water mist rise from the brook. 
do you really want to know. puck say. 
we do cry the child. awfully. 
very good. i promise you that you shall see what you shall see and you shall hear what you shall hear though it shall have happen three thousand year. but just now it seem to me that unless you go back to the house people will be look for you. i ll walk with you a far a the gate. 
will you be here when we come again. they ask. 
surely sure ly say puck. i ve be here some time already. one minute first please. 
he give them each three leaf one of oak one of ash and one of thorn. 
bite these say he. otherwise you might be talk at home of what you ve see and hear and if i know human being they d send for the doctor. bite. 
they bite hard and find themselves walk side by side to the low gate. their father be lean over it. 
and how do your play go. he ask. 
oh splendidly say dan. only afterwards i think we go to sleep. it be very hot and quiet. don t you remember una. 
una shake her head and say nothing. 
i see say her father. 
late late in the even kilmeny come home for kilmeny have be she could not tell where and kilmeny have see what she could not declare. 
but why be you chew leaf at your time of life daughter. for fun. 
no. it be for something but i can t azactly remember say una. 
and neither of them could till. 
a tree song. 
of all the tree that grow so fair old england to adorn great be none beneath the sun than oak and ash and thorn. sing oak and ash and thorn good sir. all of a midsummer morn. surely we sing no little thing in oak and ash and thorn. 
oak of the clay live many a day or ever æneas begin. ash of the loam be a lady at home when brut be an outlaw man. thorn of the down saw new troy town. from which be london bear. witness hereby the ancientry of oak and ash and thorn. 
yew that be old in churchyard mould he breedeth a mighty bow. alder for shoe do wise men choose and beech for cup also. but when ye have kill and your bowl be spill and your shoe be clean outwear back ye must speed for all that ye need to oak and ash and thorn. 
ellum she hateth mankind and waiteth till every gust be lay to drop a limb on the head of him that anyway trust her shade. but whether a lad be sober or sad or mellow with ale from the horn he will take no wrong when he lieth along neath oak and ash and thorn. 
oh do not tell the priest our plight or he would call it a sin. but we have be out in the wood all night a conjure summer in. and we bring you news by word of mouth good news for cattle and corn now be the sun come up from the south with oak and ash and thorn. 
sing oak and ash and thorn good sir. all of a midsummer morn. england shall bide till judgement tide by oak and ash and thorn. 
young men at the manor. 
they be fish a few day late in the bed of the brook that for century have cut deep into the soft valley soil. the tree close overhead make long tunnel through which the sunshine work in blob and patch. down in the tunnel be bar of sand and gravel old root and trunk cover with moss or paint red by the irony water. foxglove grow lean and pale towards the light. clump of fern and thirsty shy flower who could not live away from moisture and shade. in the pool you could see the wave throw up by the trout a they charge hither and yon and the pool be join to each other except in flood time when all be one brown rush by sheet of thin break water that pour themselves chuckle round the darkness of the next bend. 
this be one of the child s most secret hunt ground and their particular friend old hobden the hedger have show them how to use it. except for the click of a rod hit a low willow or a switch and tussle among the young ash leaf a a line hang up for the minute nobody in the hot pasture could have guess what game be go on among the trout below the bank. 
we ve get half a dozen say dan after a warm wet hour. i vote we go up to stone bay and try long pool. 
una nod most of her talk be by nod and they creep from the gloom of the tunnel towards the tiny weir that turn the brook into the mill stream. here the bank be low and bare and the glare of the afternoon sun on the long pool below the weir make your eye ache. 
when they be in the open they nearly fell down with astonishment. a huge grey horse whose tail hair crinkle the glassy water be drink in the pool and the ripple about his muzzle flash like melt gold. on his back sit an old white haired man dress in a loose glimmery gown of chain mail. he be bare head and a nut shape iron helmet hang at his saddle bow. his rein be of red leather five or six inch deep scallop at the edge and his high pad saddle with it red girth be hold fore and aft by a red leather breastband and crupper. 
look. say una a though dan be not star his very eye out. it s like the picture in your room sir isumbras at the ford. 
the rider turn towards them and his thin long face be just a sweet and gentle a that of the knight who carry the child in that picture. 
they should be here now sir richard say puck s deep voice among the willow herb. 
they be here the knight say and he smile at dan with the string of trout in his hand. there seem no great change in boy since mine fish this water. 
if your horse ha drink we shall be more at ease in the ring say puck. and he nod to the child a though he have never magicked away their memory a week before. 
the great horse turn and hoist himself into the pasture with a kick and a scramble that tear the clod down rattle. 
your pardon. say sir richard to dan. when these land be mine i never love that mount men should cross the brook except by the pave ford. but my swallow here be thirsty and i wish to meet you. 
we re very glad you ve come sir say dan. it doesn t matter in the least about the bank. 
he trot across the pasture on the sword side of the mighty horse and it be a mighty iron handle sword that swing from sir richard s belt. una walk behind with puck. she remember everything now. 
i m sorry about the leaf he say but it would never have do if you have go home and tell would it. 
i s pose not una answer. but you say that all the fair people of the hill have leave england. 
so they have. but i tell you that you should come and go and look and know didn t i. the knight isn t a fairy. he s sir richard dalyngridge a very old friend of mine. he come over with william the conqueror and he want to see you particularly. 
what for. say una. 
on account of your great wisdom and learn puck reply without a twinkle. 
u. say una. why i don t know my nine time not to say it dodge and dan make the most awful mess of fraction. he can t mean u. 
una. dan call back. sir richard say he be go to tell what happen to weland s sword. he s get it. isn t it splendid. 
nay nay say sir richard dismount a they reach the ring in the bend of the mill stream bank. it be you that must tell me for i hear the young child in our england today be a wise a our wise clerk. he slip the bite out of swallow s mouth drop the ruby red rein over his head and the wise horse move off to graze. 
sir richard. they notice he limp a little. unslung his great sword. 
that s it dan whisper to una. 
this be the sword that brother hugh have from wayland smith sir richard say. once he give it me but i would not take it. but at the last it become mine after such a fight a never christen man fight. see. he half draw it from it sheath and turn it before them. on either side just below the handle where the runic letter shiver a though they be alive be two deep gouge in the dull deadly steel. now what thing make those. say he. i know not but you perhaps can say. 
tell them all the tale sir richard say puck. it concern their land somewhat. 
yes from the very begin una plead for the knight s good face and the smile on it more than ever remind her of sir isumbras at the ford. 
they settle down to listen sir richard bare head to the sunshine dandle the sword in both hand while the grey horse crop outside the ring and the helmet on the saddle bow cling softly each time he jerk his head. 
from the begin then sir richard say since it concern your land i will tell the tale. when our duke come out of normandy to take his england great knight. have ye hear. come and strive hard to serve the duke because he promise them land here and small knight follow the great one. my folk in normandy be poor. but a great knight engerrard of the eagle engenulf de aquila who be kin to my father follow the earl of mortain who follow william the duke and i follow de aquila. yes with thirty men at arm out of my father s house and a new sword i set out to conquer england three day after i be make knight. i do not then know that england would conquer me. we go up to santlache with the rest a very great host of u. 
doe that mean the battle of hastings ten sixty six. una whisper and puck nod so a not to interrupt. 
at santlache over the hill yonder he point south eastward towards fairlight we find harold s men. we fight. at the day s end they run. my men go with de aquila s to chase and plunder and in that chase engerrard of the eagle be slay and his son gilbert take his banner and his men forward. this i do not know till after for swallow here be cut in the flank so i stay to wash the wind at a brook by a thorn. there a single saxon cry out to me in french and we fight together. i should have know his voice but we fight together. for a long time neither have any advantage till by pure ill fortune his foot slip and his sword fly from his hand. now i have but newly be make knight and wish above all to be courteous and fameworthy so i forbear to strike and bid him get his sword again. a plague on my sword say he. it ha lose me my first fight. you have spar my life. take my sword. he hold it out to me but a i stretch my hand the sword groan like a stricken man and i leap back cry sorcery. 
[the child look at the sword a though it might speak again. ]. 
suddenly a clump of saxon run out upon me and see a norman alone would have kill me but my saxon cry out that i be his prisoner and beat them off. thus see you he save my life. he put me on my horse and lead me through the wood ten long mile to this valley. 
to here d you mean. say una. 
to this very valley. we come in by the low ford under the king s hill yonder he point eastward where the valley widen. 
and be that saxon hugh the novice. dan ask. 
yes and more than that. he have be for three year at the monastery at bec by rouen where sir richard chuckle the abbot herluin would not suffer me to remain. 
why wouldn t he. say dan. 
because i ride my horse into the refectory when the scholar be at meat to show the saxon boy we norman be not afraid of an abbot. it be that very saxon hugh tempt me to do it and we have not meet since that day. i think i know his voice even inside my helmet and for all that our lord fight we each rejoice we have not slay the other. he walk by my side and he tell me how a heathen god a he believe have give him his sword but he say he have never hear it sing before. i remember i warn him to beware of sorcery and quick enchantment. sir richard smile to himself. i be very young very young. 
when we come to his house here we have almost forget that we have be at blow. it be near midnight and the great hall be full of men and woman wait news. there i first saw his sister the lady ælueva of whom he have speak to u in france. she cry out fiercely at me and would have have me hang in that hour but her brother say that i have spar his life he say not how he save mine from the saxon and that our duke have win the day. and even while they wrangle over my poor body of a sudden he fell down in a swoon from his wound. 
this be thy fault say the lady ælueva to me and she kneel above him and call for wine and cloth. 
if i have know i answer he should have ride and i walk. but he set me on my horse. he make no complaint. he walk beside me and speak merrily throughout. i pray i have do him no harm. 
thou hast need to pray she say catch up her underlip. if he dy thou shalt hang. 
they bore off hugh to his chamber. but three tall men of the house bind me and set me under the beam of the great hall with a rope round my neck. the end of the rope they fling over the beam and they sit them down by the fire to wait word whether hugh live or die. they crack nut with their knife hilt the while. 
and how do you feel. say dan. 
very weary. but i do heartily pray for my schoolmate hugh his health. about noon i hear horse in the valley and the three men loose my rope and flee out and de aquila s men ride up. gilbert de aquila come with them for it be his boast that like his father he forget no man that serve him. he be little like his father but terrible with a nose like an eagle s nose and yellow eye like an eagle. he ride tall warhorse roan which he breed himself and he could never abide to be help into the saddle. he saw the rope hang from the beam and laugh and his men laugh for i be too stiff to rise. 
this be poor entertainment for a norman knight he say but such a it be let u be grateful. show me boy to whom thou owest most and we will pay them out of hand. 
what do he mean. to kill em. say dan. 
assuredly. but i look at the lady ælueva where she stand among her maid and her brother beside her. de aquila s men have drive them all into the great hall. 
be she pretty. say una. 
in all my long life i have never see woman fit to strew rush before my lady ælueva the knight reply quite simply and quietly. a i look at her i think i might save her and her house by a jest. 
see that i come somewhat hastily and without warn say i to de aquila i have no fault to find with the courtesy that these saxon have show me. but my voice shake. it be it be not good to jest with that little man. 
all be silent awhile till de aquila laugh. look men a miracle say he. the fight be scarce speed my father be not yet bury and here we find our young knight already set down in his manor while his saxon ye can see it in their fat face have pay him homage and service. by the saint he say rub his nose i never think england would be so easy win. surely i can do no le than give the lad what he ha take. this manor shall be thine boy he say till i come again or till thou art slay. now mount men and ride. we follow our duke into kent to make him king of england. 
he draw me with him to the door while they bring his horse a lean roan tall than my swallow here but not so well girth. 
hark to me he say fret with his great war glove. i have give thee this manor which be a saxon hornet nest and i think thou wilt be slay in a month a my father be slay. yet if thou canst keep the roof on the hall the thatch on the barn and the plough in the furrow till i come back thou shalt hold the manor from me. for the duke ha promise our earl mortain all the land by pevensey and mortain will give me of them what he would have give my father. god know if thou or i shall live till england be win. but remember boy that here and now fight be foolishness and he reach for the rein craft and cunning be all. 
ala i have no cunning say i. 
not yet say he hop abroad foot in stirrup and poke his horse in the belly with his toe. not yet but i think thou hast a good teacher. farewell. hold the manor and live. lose the manor and hang he say and spur out his shield strap squeak behind him. 
so child here be i little more than a boy and santlache fight not two day old leave alone with my thirty men at arm in a land i know not among a people whose tongue i could not speak to hold down the land which i have take from them. 
and that be here at home. say una. 
yes here. see. from the upper ford weland s ford to the low ford by the belle allée west and east it run half a league. from the beacon of brunanburgh behind u here south and north it run a full league and all the wood be full of break men from santlache saxon thief norman plunderer robber and deer stealer. a hornet nest indeed. 
when de aquila have go hugh would have thank me for save their life. but the lady ælueva say that i have do it only for the sake of receive the manor. 
how could i know that de aquila would give it me. i say. if i have tell him i have spend my night in your halter he would have burn the place twice over by now. 
if any man have put my neck in a rope she say i would have see his house burn thrice over before i would have make term. 
but it be a woman i say. and i laugh and she weep and say that i mock her in her captivity. 
lady say i there be no captive in this valley except one and he be not a saxon. 
at this she cry that i be a norman thief who come with false sweet word have intend from the first to turn her out in the field to beg her bread. into the field. she have never see the face of war. 
i be angry and answer this much at least i can disprove for i swear and on my sword hilt i swear it in that place i swear i will never set foot in the great hall till the lady ælueva herself shall summon me there. 
she go away say nothing and i walk out and hugh limp after me whistle dolorously. that be a custom of the english. and we come upon the three saxon that have bind me. they be now bind by my men at arm and behind them stand some fifty stark and sullen churl of the house and the manor wait to see what should fall. we hear de aquila s trumpet blow thin through the wood kentward. 
shall we hang these. say my men. 
then my churl will fight say hugh beneath his breath. but i bid him ask the three what mercy they hop for. 
none say they all. she bid u hang thee if our master die. and we would have hang thee. there be no more to it. 
a i stand doubt a woman run down from the oak wood above the king s hill yonder and cry out that some norman be drive off the swine there. 
norman or saxon say i we must beat them back or they will rob u every day. out at them with any arm ye have. so i loose those three carles and we run together my men at arm and the saxon with bill and ax which they have hide in the thatch of their hut and hugh lead them. half way up the king s hill we find a false fellow from picardy a sutler that sell wine in the duke s camp with a dead knight s shield on his arm a steal horse under him and some ten or twelve wastrel at his tail all cut and slash at the pig. we beat them off and save our pork. one hundred and seventy pig we save in that great battle. sir richard laugh. 
that then be our first work together and i bid hugh tell his folk that so would i deal with any man knight or churl norman or saxon who steal a much a one egg from our valley. say he to me rid home. thou hast go far to conquer england this even. i answer. england must be thine and mine then. help me hugh to deal aright with these people. make them to know that if they slay me de aquila will surely send to slay them and he will put a bad man in my place. that may well be true say he and give me his hand. good the devil we know than the devil we know not till we can pack you norman home. and so too say his saxon. and they laugh a we drive the pig downhill. but i think some of them even then begin not to hate me. 
i like brother hugh say una softly. 
beyond question he be the most perfect courteous valiant tender and wise knight that ever draw breath say sir richard caress the sword. he hang up his sword this sword on the wall of the great hall because he say it be fairly mine and never he take it down till de aquila return a i shall presently show. for three month his men and mine guard the valley till all robber and nightwalker learn there be nothing to get from u save hard tack and a hang. side by side we fight against all who come thrice a week sometimes we fight against thief and landless knight look for good manor. then we be in some peace and i make shift by hugh s help to govern the valley for all this valley of yours be my manor a a knight should. i keep the roof on the hall and the thatch on the barn but. the english be a bold people. his saxon would laugh and jest with hugh and hugh with them and this be marvellous to me if even the mean of them say that such and such a thing be the custom of the manor then straightway would hugh and such old men of the manor a might be near forsake everything else to debate the matter i have see them stop the mill with the corn half grind and if the custom or usage be prove to be a it be say why that be the end of it even though it be flat against hugh his wish and command. wonderful. 
aye say puck break in for the first time. the custom of old england be here before your norman knight come and it outlast them though they fight against it cruel. 
not i say sir richard. i let the saxon go their stubborn way but when my own men at arm norman not six month in england stand up and tell me what be the custom of the country then i be angry. ah good day. ah wonderful people. and i love them all. 
the knight lift his arm a though he would hug the whole dear valley and swallow hear the chink of his chain mail look up and whinny softly. 
at last he go on after a year of strive and contrive and some little drive de aquila come to the valley alone and without warn. i saw him first at the low ford with a swineherd s brat on his saddle bow. 
there be no need for thee to give any account of thy stewardship say he. i have it all from the child here. and he tell me how the young thing have stop his tall horse at the ford by wave of a branch and cry that the way be bar. and if one bold bare babe be enough to guard the ford in these day thou hast do well say he and puff and wipe his head. 
he pinch the child s cheek and look at our cattle in the flat by the river. 
both fat say he rub his nose. this be craft and cunning such a i love. what do i tell thee when i ride away boy. 
hold the manor or hang say i. i have never forget it. 
true. and thou hast hold. he clamber from his saddle and with his sword s point cut out a turf from the bank and give it me where i kneel. 
dan look at una and una look at dan. 
that s seizin say puck in a whisper. 
now thou art lawfully seize of the manor sir richard say he twas the first time he ever call me that thou and thy heir for ever. this must serve till the king s clerk write out thy title on a parchment. england be all ours if we can hold it. 
what service shall i pay. i ask and i remember i be proud beyond word. 
knight s fee boy knight s fee. say he hop round his horse on one foot. have i say he be little and could not endure to be help to his saddle. six mount men or twelve archer thou shalt send me whenever i call for them and where get you that corn. say he for it be near harvest and our corn stand well. i have never see such bright straw. send me three bag of the same seed yearly and furthermore in memory of our last meet with the rope round thy neck entertain me and my men for two day of each year in the great hall of thy manor. 
ala. say i then my manor be already forfeit. i be under vow not to enter the great hall. and i tell him what i have swear to the lady ælueva. 
and hadn t you ever be into the house since. say una. 
never sir richard answer smile. i have make me a little hut of wood up the hill and there i do justice and sleep. de aquila wheel aside and his shield shake on his back. no matter boy say he. i will remit the homage for a year. 
he mean sir richard needn t give him dinner there the first year puck explain. 
de aquila stay with me in the hut and hugh who could read and write and cast account show him the roll of the manor in which be write all the name of our field and men and he ask a thousand question touch the land the timber the graze the mill and the fish pond and the worth of every man in the valley. but never he name the lady ælueva s name nor go he near the great hall. by night he drink with u in the hut. yes he sit on the straw like an eagle ruffle in her feather his yellow eye roll above the cup and he pounce in his talk like an eagle swoop from one thing to another but always bind fast. yes. he would lie still awhile and then rustle in the straw and speak sometimes a though he be king william himself and anon he would speak in parable and tale and if at once we saw not his mean he would yerk u in the rib with his scabbarded sword. 
look you boy say he i be bear out of my due time. five hundred year ago i would have make all england such an england a neither dane saxon nor norman should have conquer. five hundred year hence i should have be such a counsellor to king a the world hath never dream of. ti all here say he tap his big head but it hath no play in this black age. now hugh here be a good man than thou art richard. he have make his voice harsh and croak like a raven s. 
truth say i. but for hugh his help and patience and long suffer i could never have keep the manor. 
nor thy life either say de aquila. hugh ha save thee not once but a hundred time. be still hugh. he say. dost thou know richard why hugh sleep and why he still sleep among thy norman men at arm. 
to be near me say i for i think this be truth. 
fool. say de aquila. it be because his saxon have beg him to rise against thee and to sweep every norman out of the valley. no matter how i know. it be truth. therefore hugh hath make himself an hostage for thy life well know that if any harm befall thee from his saxon thy norman would slay him without remedy. and this his saxon know. be it true hugh. 
in some sort say hugh shamefacedly. at least it be true half a year ago. my saxon would not harm richard now. i think they know him but i judge it best to make sure. 
look child what that man have do and i have never guess it. night after night have he lie down among my men at arm know that if one saxon have lift knife against me his life would have answer for mine. 
yes say de aquila. and he be a swordless man. he point to hugh s belt for hugh have put away his sword do i tell you. the day after it fly from his hand at santlache. he carry only the short knife and the long bow. swordless and landless art thou hugh. and they call thee kin to earl godwin. hugh be indeed of godwin s blood. the manor that be thine be give to this boy and to his child for ever. sit up and beg for he can turn thee out like a dog hugh. 
hugh say nothing but i hear his teeth grind and i bid de aquila my own overlord hold his peace or i would stuff his word down his throat. then de aquila laugh till the tear run down his face. 
i warn the king say he what would come of give england to u norman thief. here art thou richard le than two day confirm in thy manor and already thou hast rise against thy overlord. what shall we do to him sir hugh. 
i be a swordless man say hugh. do not jest with me and he lay his head on his knee and groan. 
the great fool thou say de aquila and all his voice change. for i have give thee the manor of dallington up the hill this half hour since and he yerked at hugh with his scabbard across the straw. 
to me. say hugh. i be a saxon and except that i love richard here i have not swear fealty to any norman. 
in god s good time which because of my sin i shall not live to see there will be neither saxon nor norman in england say de aquila. if i know men thou art more faithful unsworn than a score of norman i could name. take dallington and join sir richard to fight me tomorrow if it please thee. 
nay say hugh. i be no child. where i take a gift there i render service. and he put his hand between de aquila s and swear to be faithful and a i remember i kiss him and de aquila kiss u both. 
we sit afterwards outside the hut while the sun rise and de aquila mark our churl go to their work in the field and talk of holy thing and how we should govern our manor in time to come and of hunt and of horse breed and of the king s wisdom and unwisdom. for he speak to u a though we be in all sort now his brother. anon a churl steal up to me he be one of the three i have not hang a year ago and he bellow which be the saxon for whisper that the lady ælueva would speak to me at the great house. she walk abroad daily in the manor and it be her custom to send me word whither she go that i might set an archer or two behind and in front to guard her. very often i myself lay up in the wood and watch on her also. 
i go swiftly and a i pass the great door it open from within and there stand my lady ælueva and she say to me. sir richard will it please you enter your great hall. then she weep but we be alone. 
the knight be silent for a long time his face turn across the valley smile. 
oh well do. say una and clap her hand very softly. she be sorry and she say so. 
aye she be sorry and she say so say sir richard come back with a little start. very soon but he say it be two full hour late de aquila ride to the door with his shield new scour. hugh have cleanse it. and demand entertainment and call me a false knight that would starve his overlord to death. then hugh cry out that no man should work in the valley that day and our saxon blow horn and set about feast and drink and run of race and dance and sing. and de aquila climb upon a horse block and speak to them in what he swear be good saxon but no man understand it. at night we feast in the great hall and when the harper and the singer be go we four sit late at the high table. a i remember it be a warm night with a full moon and de aquila bid hugh take down his sword from the wall again for the honour of the manor of dallington and hugh take it gladly enough. dust lay on the hilt for i saw him blow it off. 
she and i sit talk a little apart and at first we think the harper have come back for the great hall be fill with a rush noise of music. de aquila leap up. but there be only the moonlight fretty on the floor. 
hearken. say hugh. it be my sword and a he belt it on the music cease. 
over god forbid that i should ever belt blade like that say de aquila. what doe it foretell. 
the god that make it may know. last time it speak be at hastings when i lose all my land. belike it sing now that i have new land and be a man again say hugh. 
he loose the blade a little and drive it back happily into the sheath and the sword answer him low and crooningly a a a woman would speak to a man her head on his shoulder. 
now that be the second time in all my life i hear this sword sing. 
look. say una. there s mother come down the long slip. what will she say to sir richard. she can t help see him. 
and puck can t magic u this time say dan. 
be you sure. say puck. and he lean forward and whisper to sir richard who smile bow his head. 
but what befall the sword and my brother hugh i will tell on another time say he rise. ohé swallow. 
the great horse canter up from the far end of the meadow close to mother. 
they hear mother say. child gleason s old horse ha break into the meadow again. where do he get through. 
just below stone bay say dan. he tear down simple flobs of the bank. we notice it just now. and we ve catch no end of fish. we ve be at it all the afternoon. 
and they honestly believe that they have. they never notice the oak ash and thorn leaf that puck have slyly throw into their lap. 
sir richard s song. 
i follow my duke ere i be a lover to take from england fief and fee. but now this game be the other way over but now england hath take me. 
i have my horse my shield and banner and a boy s heart so whole and free. but now i sing in another manner but now england hath take me. 
a for my father in his tower ask news of my ship at sea. he will remember his own hour tell him england hath take me. 
a for my mother in her bower that rule my father so cunningly. she will remember a maiden s power tell her england hath take me. 
a for my brother in rouen city a nimble and naughty page be he. but he will come to suffer and pity tell him england hath take me. 
a for my little sister wait in the pleasant orchard of normandie. tell her youth be the time of mat tell her england hath take me. 
a for my comrade in camp and highway that lift their eyebrow scornfully. tell them their way be not my way tell them england hath take me. 
king and prince and baron famed knight and captain in your degree. hear me a little before i be blame see england hath take me. 
howso great man s strength be reckon there be two thing he cannot flee. love be the first and death be the second and love in england hath take me. 
the knight of the joyous venture. 
harp song of the dane woman. 
what be a woman that you forsake her and the hearth fire and the home acre to go with the old grey widow maker. 
she ha no house to lay a guest in but one chill bed for all to rest in that the pale sun and the stray berg nest in. 
she ha no strong white arm to fold you but the ten time finger weed to hold you bind on the rock where the tide ha roll you. 
yet when the sign of summer thicken and the ice break and the birch bud quicken yearly you turn from our side and sicken. 
sicken again for the shout and the slaughter you steal away to the lap water and look at your ship in her winter quarter. 
you forget our mirth and talk at the table the kine in the shed and the horse in the stable to pitch her side and go over her cable. 
then you drive out where the storm cloud swallow. and the sound of your oar blade fall hollow be all we have leave through the month to follow. 
ah what be a woman that you forsake her and the hearth fire and the home acre to go with the old grey widow maker. 
it be too hot to run about in the open so dan ask their friend old hobden to take their own dinghy from the pond and put her on the brook at the bottom of the garden. her paint name be the daisy_ but for explore expedition she be the golden hind or the long serpent_ or some such suitable name. dan hike and howked with a boat hook. the brook be too narrow for scull. and una punt with a piece of hop pole. when they come to a very shallow place. the golden hind draw quite three inch of water. they disembark and scuffle her over the gravel by her tow rope and when they reach the overgrow bank beyond the garden they pull themselves up stream by the low branch. 
that day they intend to discover the north cape like othere the old sea captain in the book of verse which una have bring with her. but on account of the heat they change it to a voyage up the amazon and the source of the nile. even on the shade water the air be hot and heavy with drowsy scent while outside through break in the tree the sunshine burn the pasture like fire. the kingfisher be asleep on his watch branch and the blackbird scarcely take the trouble to dive into the next bush. dragonfly wheel and clash be the only thing at work except the moorhen and a big red admiral who flap down out of the sunshine for a drink. 
when they reach otter pool the golden hind ground comfortably on a shallow and they lay beneath a roof of close green watch the water trickle over the flood gate down the mossy brick chute from the mill stream to the brook. a big trout the child know him well roll head and shoulder at some fly that sail round the bend while once in just so often the brook rise a fraction of an inch against all the wet pebble and they watch the slow draw and shiver of a breath of air through the tree top. then the little voice of the slip water begin again. 
it s like the shadow talk isn t it. say una. she have give up try to read. dan lay over the bow trail his hand in the current. they hear foot on the gravel bar that run half across the pool and saw sir richard dalyngridge stand over them. 
be yours a dangerous voyage. he ask smile. 
she bump a lot sir say dan. there s hardly any water this summer. 
ah the brook be deep and wide when my child play at danish pirate. be you pirate folk. 
oh no. we give up be pirate year ago explain una. we re nearly always explorer now. sail round the world you know. 
round. say sir richard. he sit him in the comfortable crotch of an old ash root on the bank. how can it be round. 
wasn t it in your book. dan suggest. he have be do geography at his last lesson. 
i can neither write nor read he reply. canst thou read child. 
yes say dan bar the very long word. 
wonderful. read to me that i may hear for myself. 
dan flush but open the book and begin gabble a little at the discoverer of the north cape. 
othere the old sea captain who dwell in helgoland to king alfred the lover of truth bring a snow white walrus tooth that he hold in his brown right hand. 
but but this i know. this be an old song. this i have hear sing. this be a miracle sir richard interrupt. nay do not stop. he lean forward and the shadow of the leaf slip and slide upon his chain mail. 
i plough the land with horse but my heart be ill at ease for the old sea fare men come to me now and then with their saga of the sea. 
his hand fell on the hilt of the great sword. this be truth he cry for so do it happen to me and he beat time delightedly to the tramp of verse after verse. 
and now the land say othere bend southward suddenly and i follow the curve shore and ever southward bore into a nameless sea. 
a nameless sea. he repeat. so do i so do hugh and i. 
where do you go. tell u say una. 
wait. let me hear all first. so dan read to the poem s very end. 
good say the knight. that be othere s tale even a i have hear the men in the dane ship sing it. not in those same valiant word but something like to them. 
have you ever explore north. dan shut the book. 
nay. my venture be south. farther south than any man ha fare hugh and i go down with witta and his heathen. he jerk the tall sword forward and lean on it with both hand. but his eye look long past them. 
i think you always live here say una timidly. 
yes. while my lady ælueva live. but she die. she die. then my eldest son be a man i ask de aquila s leave that he should hold the manor while i go on some journey or pilgrimage to forget. de aquila whom the second william have make warden of pevensey in earl mortain s place be very old then but still he ride his tall roan horse and in the saddle he look like a little white falcon. when hugh at dallington over yonder hear what i do he send for my second son whom be unmarried he have ever look upon a his own child and by de aquila s leave give him the manor of dallington to hold till he should return. then hugh come with me. 
when do this happen. say dan. 
that i can answer to the very day for a we ride with de aquila by pevensey have i say that he be lord of pevensey and of the honour of the eagle. to the bordeaux ship that fetch him his wine yearly out of france a marsh man run to u cry that he have see a great black goat which bore on his back the body of the king and that the goat have speak to him. on that same day red william our king the conqueror s son die of a secret arrow while he hunt in a forest. this be a cross matter say de aquila to meet on the threshold of a journey. if red william be dead i may have to fight for my land. wait a little. 
my lady be dead i care nothing for sign and omen nor hugh either. we take that wine ship to go to bordeaux. but the wind fail while we be yet in sight of pevensey a thick mist hide u and we drift with the tide along the cliff to the west. our company be for the most part merchant return to france and we be lade with wool and there be three couple of tall hunt dog chain to the rail. their master be a knight of artois. his name i never learn but his shield bore gold piece on a red grind and he limp much a i do from a wind which he have get in his youth at mantis siege. he serve the duke of burgundy against the moor in spain and be return to that war with his dog. he sing u strange moorish song that first night and half persuade u to go with him. i be on pilgrimage to forget which be what no pilgrimage bring. i think i would have go but. 
look you how the life and fortune of man change. towards morning a dane ship row silently strike against u in the mist and while we roll hither and yon hugh lean over the rail fell outboard. i leap after him and we two tumble aboard the dane and be catch and bind ere we could rise. our own ship be swallow up in the mist. i judge the knight of the gold piece muzzle his dog with his cloak l they should give tongue and betray the merchant for i hear their bay suddenly stop. 
we lay bind among the bench till morning when the dane drag u to the high deck by the steer place and their captain witta he be call turn u over with his foot. bracelet of gold from elbow to armpit he wear and his red hair be long a a woman s and come down in plait lock on his shoulder. he be stout with bow leg and long arm. he spoil u of all we have but when he lay hand on hugh s sword and saw the rune on the blade hastily he thrust it back. yet his covetousness overcome him and he try again and again and the third time the sword sing loud and angrily so that the rower lean on their oar to listen. here they all speak together scream like gull and a yellow man such a i have never see come to the high deck and cut our bond. he be yellow not from sickness but by nature yellow a honey and his eye stand endwise in his head. 
how do you mean. say una her chin on her hand. 
thus say sir richard. he put a finger to the corner of each eye and push it up till his eye narrow to slit. 
why you look just like a chinaman. cry dan. be the man a chinaman. 
i know not what that may be. witta have find him half dead among ice on the shore of muscovy. we think he be a devil. he crawl before u and bring food in a silver dish which these sea wolf have rob from some rich abbey and witta with his own hand give u wine. he speak a little in french a little in south saxon and much in the northman s tongue. we ask him to set u ashore promise to pay him good ransom than he would get price if he sell u to the moor a once befall a knight of my acquaintance sail from flush. 
not by my father guthrum s head say he. the god send ye into my ship for a luck offer. 
at this i quake for i know it be still the dane custom to sacrifice captive to their god for fair weather. 
a plague on thy four long bone. say hugh. what profit canst thou make of poor old pilgrim that can neither work nor fight. 
god forbid i should fight against thee poor pilgrim with the sing sword say he. come with u and be poor no more. thy teeth be far apart which be a sure sign thou wilt travel and grow rich. 
what if we will not come. say hugh. 
swim to england or france say witta. we be midway between the two. unless ye choose to drown yourselves no hair of your head will be harm here aboard. we think ye bring u luck and i myself know the rune on that sword be good. he turn and bid them hoist sail. 
hereafter all make way for u a we walk about the ship and the ship be full of wonder. 
what be she like. say dan. 
long low and narrow bear one mast with a red sail and row by fifteen oar a side the knight answer. at her bow be a deck under which men might lie and at her stern another shut off by a paint door from the rower bench. here hugh and i sleep with witta and the yellow man upon tapestry a soft a wool. i remember he laugh to himself when first we enter there a loud voice cry out sword. out sword. kill kill. see u start witta laugh and show u it be but a great beak grey bird with a red tail. he sit her on his shoulder and she call for bread and wine hoarsely and pray him to kiss her. yet she be no more than a silly bird. but ye know this. he look at their smile face. 
we weren t laugh at you say una. that must have be a parrot. it s just what pollies do. 
so we learn late. but here be another marvel. the yellow man whose name be kitai have with him a brown box. in the box be a blue bowl with red mark upon the rim and within the bowl hang from a fine thread be a piece of iron no thick than that grass stem and a long maybe a my spur but straight. in this iron say witta abide an evil spirit which kitai the yellow man have bring by art magic out of his own country that lay three year journey southward. the evil spirit strive day and night to return to his country and therefore look you the iron needle point continually to the south. 
south. say dan suddenly and put his hand into his pocket. 
with my own eye i saw it. every day and all day long though the ship roll though the sun and the moon and the star be hide this blind spirit in the iron know whither it would go and strain to the south. witta call it the wise iron because it show him his way across the unknowable sea. again sir richard look keenly at the child. how think ye. be it sorcery. 
be it anything like this. dan fish out his old brass pocket compass that generally live with his knife and key ring. the glass ha get crack but the needle waggle all right sir. 
the knight draw a long breath of wonder. yes yes. the wise iron shake and swing in just this fashion. now it be still. now it point to the south. 
north say dan. 
nay south. there be the south say sir richard. then they both laugh for naturally when one end of a straight compass needle point to the north the other must point to the south. 
té say sir richard click his tongue. there can be no sorcery if a child carry it. wherefore doe it point south or north. 
father say that nobody know say una. 
sir richard look relieve. then it may still be magic. it be magic to u. and so we voyage. when the wind serve we hoist sail and lay all up along the windward rail our shield on our back to break the spray. when it fail they row with long oar. the yellow man sit by the wise iron and witta steer. at first i fear the great white flower wave but a i saw how wisely witta lead his ship among them i grow bold. hugh like it well from the first. my skill be not upon the water. and rock and whirlpool such a we saw by the west isle of france where an oar catch on a rock and break be much against my stomach. we sail south across a stormy sea where by moonlight between cloud we saw a flanders ship roll clean over and sink. again though hugh labour with witta all night i lay under the deck with the talk bird and care not whether i live or die. there be a sickness of the sea which for three day be pure death. when we next saw land witta say it be spain and we stand out to sea. that coast be full of ship busy in the duke s war against the moor and we fear to be hang by the duke s men or sell into slavery by the moor. so we put into a small harbour which witta know. at night men come down with load mule and witta exchange amber out of the north against little wedge of iron and packet of bead in earthen pot. the pot he put under the deck and the wedge of iron he lay on the bottom of the ship after he have cast out the stone and shingle which till then have be our ballast. wine too he buy for lump of sweet smell grey amber a little morsel no big than a thumbnail purchase a cask of wine. but i speak like a merchant. 
no no. tell u what you have to eat cry dan. 
meat dry in the sun and dry fish and grind bean witta take in. and cord frail of a certain sweet soft fruit which the moor use which be like paste of fig but with thin long stone. aha. date be the name. 
now say witta when the ship be load i counsel you stranger to pray to your god for from here on our road be no man s road. he and his men kill a black goat for sacrifice on the bow. and the yellow man bring out a small smile image of dull green stone and burn incense before it. hugh and i commend ourselves to god and saint barnabas and our lady of the assumption who be specially dear to my lady. we be not young but i think no shame to say whenas we drive out of that secret harbour at sunrise over a still sea we two rejoice and sing a do the knight of old when they follow our great duke to england. yet be our leader an heathen pirate. all our proud fleet but one galley perilously overload. for guidance we lean on a pagan sorcerer. and our port be beyond the world s end. witta tell u that his father guthrum have once in his life row along the shore of africa to a land where naked men sell gold for iron and bead. there have he buy much gold and no few elephant teeth and thither by help of the wise iron would witta go. witta fear nothing except to be poor. 
my father tell me say witta that a great shoal run three day sail out from that land and south of the shoal lie a forest which grow in the sea. south and east of the forest my father come to a place where the men hide gold in their hair. but all that country he say be full of devil who live in tree and tear folk limb from limb. how think ye. 
gold or no gold say hugh finger his sword it be a joyous venture. have at these devil of thine witta. 
venture. say witta sourly. i be only a poor sea thief. i do not set my life adrift on a plank for joy or the venture. once i beach ship again at stavanger and feel the wife s arm round my neck i ll seek no more venture. a ship be heavy care than a wife or cattle. 
he leap down among the rower chide them for their little strength and their great stomach. yet witta be a wolf in fight and a very fox in cunning. 
we be drive south by a storm and for three day and three night he take the stern oar and threddled the longship through the sea. when it rise beyond measure he brake a pot of whale s oil upon the water which wonderfully smooth it and in that anoint patch he turn her head to the wind and throw out oar at the end of a rope to make he say an anchor at which we lay roll sorely but dry. this craft his father guthrum have show him. he know too all the leech book of bald who be a wise doctor and he know the ship book of hlaf the woman who rob egypt. he know all the care of a ship. 
after the storm we saw a mountain whose top be cover with snow and pierce the cloud. the grass under this mountain boil and eat be a good cure for soreness of the gum and swell ankle. we lay there eight day till men in skin throw stone at u. when the heat increase witta spread a cloth on bend stick above the rower for the wind fail between the island of the mountain and the shore of africa which be east of it. that shore be sandy and we row along it within three bowshots. here we saw whale and fish in the shape of shield but long than our ship. some sleep some open their mouth at u and some dance on the hot water. the water be hot to the hand and the sky be hide by hot grey mist out of which blow a fine dust that whiten our hair and beard of a morning. here too be fish that fly in the air like bird. they would fall on the lap of the rower and when we go ashore we would roast and eat them. 
the knight pause to see if the child doubt him but they only nod and say go on. 
the yellow land lay on our leave the grey sea on our right. knight though i be i pull my oar amongst the rower. i catch seaweed and dry it and stuff it between the pot of bead l they should break. knighthood be for the land. at sea look you a man be but a spurless rider on a bridleless horse. i learn to make strong knot in rope yes and to join two rope end to end so that even witta could scarcely see where they have be marry. but hugh have tenfold more sea cunning than i. witta give him charge of the rower of the leave side. thorkild of borkum a man with a break nose that wear a norman steel cap have the rower of the right and each side row and sing against the other. they saw that no man be idle. truly a hugh say and witta would laugh at him a ship be all more care than a manor. 
how. thus. there be water to fetch from the shore when we could find it a well a wild fruit and grass and sand for scrub of the deck and bench to keep them sweet. also we haul the ship out on low island and empty all her gear even to the iron wedge and burn off the weed that have grow on her with torch of rush and smoke below the deck with rush dampen in salt water a hlaf the woman order in her ship book. once when we be thus strip and the ship lay prop on her keel the bird cry out sword. a though she saw an enemy. witta vow he would wring her neck. 
poor polly. do he. say una. 
nay. she be the ship s bird. she could call all the rower by name. those be good day for a wifeless man with witta and his heathen beyond the world s end. after many week we come on the great shoal which stretch a witta s father have say far out to sea. we skirt it till we be giddy with the sight and dizzy with the sound of bar and breaker and when we reach land again we find a naked black people dwell among wood who for one wedge of iron load u with fruit and grass and egg. witta scratch his head at them in sign he would buy gold. they have no gold but they understand the sign. all the gold trader hide their gold in their thick hair. for they point along the coast. they beat too on their chest with their clench hand and that if we have know it be an evil sign. 
what do it mean. say dan. 
patience. ye shall hear. we follow the coast eastward sixteen day. count time by sword cut on the helm rail. till we come to the forest in the sea. tree grow there out of mud arch upon lean and high root and many muddy waterway run all whither into darkness under the tree. here we lose the sun. we follow the wind channel between the tree and where we could not row we lay hold of the crust root and haul ourselves along. the water be foul and great glitter fly torment u. morning and even a blue mist cover the mud which breed fever. four of our rower sicken and be bind to their bench l they should leap overboard and be eat by the monster of the mud. the yellow man lay sick beside the wise iron roll his head and talk in his own tongue. only the bird thrive. she sit on witta s shoulder and scream in that noisome silent darkness. yes. i think it be the silence we most fear. 
he pause to listen to the comfortable home noise of the brook. 
when we have lose count of time among those black gully and swash we hear a it be a drum beat far off and follow it we break into a broad brown river by a hut in a clear among field of pumpkin. we thank god to see the sun again. the people of the village give the good welcome and witta scratch his head at them. for gold. and show them our iron and bead. they run to the bank we be still in the ship and point to our sword and bow for always when near shore we lay arm. soon they fetch store of gold in bar and in dust from their hut and some great blacken elephant teeth. these they pile on the bank a though to tempt u and make sign of deal blow in battle and point up to the tree top and to the forest behind. their captain or chief sorcerer then beat on his chest with his fist and gnash his teeth. 
say thorkild of borkum. do they mean we must fight for all this gear. and he half draw sword. 
nay say hugh. i think they ask u to league against some enemy. 
i like this not say witta of a sudden. back into mid stream. 
so we do and sit still all watch the black folk and the gold they pile on the bank. again we hear drum beat in the forest and the people flee to their hut leave the gold unguarded. 
then hugh at the bow point without speech and we saw a great devil come out of the forest. he shade his brow with his hand and moisten his pink tongue between his lip thus. 
a devil. say dan delightfully horrify. 
yea. tall than a man. cover with reddish hair. when he have well regard our ship he beat on his chest with his fist till it sound like roll drum and come to the bank swing all his body between his long arm and gnash his teeth at u. hugh loose arrow and pierce him through the throat. he fell roar and three other devil run out of the forest and haul him into a tall tree out of sight. anon they cast down the blood stain arrow and lament together among the leaf. 
witta saw the gold on the bank. he be loath to leave it. sir say he. no man have speak till then. yonder be what we have come so far and so painfully to find lay out to our very hand. let u row in while these devil bewail themselves and at least bear off what we may. 
bold a a wolf cunning a a fox be witta. he set four archer on the foredeck to shoot the devil if they should leap from the tree which be close to the bank. he man ten oar a side and bid them watch his hand to row in or back out and so coax he them toward the bank. but none would set foot ashore though the gold be within ten pace. no man be hasty to his hang. they whimper at their oar like beat hound and witta bite his finger for rage. 
say hugh of a sudden hark. at first we think it be the buzz of the glitter fly on the water. but it grow loud and fierce so that all men hear. 
what. say dan and una. 
it be the sword. sir richard pat the smooth hilt. it sing a a dane sing before battle. i go say hugh and he leap from the bow and fell among the gold. i be afraid to my four bone marrow but for shame s sake i follow and thorkild of borkum leap after me. none other come. blame me not cry witta behind u i must abide by my ship. we three have no time to blame or praise. we stoop to the gold and throw it back over our shoulder one hand on our sword and one eye on the tree which nigh overhang u. 
i know not how the devil leap down or how the fight begin. i hear hugh cry. out. out. a though he be at santlache again. i saw thorkild s steel cap smite off his head by a great hairy hand and i felt an arrow from the ship whistle past my ear. they say that till witta take his sword to the rower he could not bring his ship inshore. and each one of the four archer say afterwards that he alone have pierce the devil that fight me. i do not know. i go to it in my mail shirt which save my skin. with long sword and belt dagger i fight for the life against a devil whose very foot be hand and who whirl me back and forth like a dead branch. he have me by the waist my arm to my side when an arrow from the ship pierce him between the shoulder and he loosen grip. i pass my sword twice through him and he crutched himself away between his long arm cough and moan. next a i remember i saw thorkild of borkum bare head and smile leap up and down before a devil that leap and gnash his teeth. then hugh pass his sword shift to his leave hand and i wonder why i have not know that hugh be a leave hand man. and thereafter i remember nothing till i felt spray on my face and we be in sunshine on the open sea. that be twenty day after. 
what have happen. do hugh die. the child ask. 
never be such a fight fight by christen man say sir richard. an arrow from the ship have save me from my devil and thorkild of borkum have give back before his devil till the bowman on the ship could shoot it all full of arrow from near by. but hugh s devil be cunning and have keep behind tree where no arrow could reach. body to body there by stark strength of sword and hand have hugh slay him and die the thing have clench his teeth on the sword. judge what teeth they be. 
sir richard turn the sword again that the child might see the two great chisel gouge on either side of the blade. 
those same teeth meet in hugh s right arm and side sir richard go on. i. oh i have no more than a break foot and a fever. thorkild s ear be bite but hugh s arm and side clean wither away. i saw him where he lay along suck a fruit in his leave hand. his flesh be waste off his bone his hair be patch with white and his hand be blue vein like a woman s. he put his leave arm round my neck and whisper take my sword. it ha be thine since hastings o my brother but i can never hold hilt again. we lay there on the high deck talk of santlache and i think of every day since santlache and it come so that we both weep. i be weak and he little more than a shadow. 
nay nay say witta at the helm rail. gold be a good right arm to any man. look look at the gold. he bid thorkild show u the gold and the elephant teeth a though we have be child. he have bring away all the gold on the bank and twice a much more that the people of the village give him for slay the devil. they worship u a god thorkild tell me. it be one of their old woman heal up hugh s poor arm. 
how much gold do you get. ask dan. 
how can i say. where we come out with wedge of iron under the rower foot we return with wedge of gold hide beneath plank. there be dust of gold in package where we sleep and along the side and crosswise under the bench we lash the blacken elephant teeth. 
i have sooner have my right arm say hugh when he have see all. 
ahai. that be my fault say witta. i should have take ransom and land you in france when first you come aboard ten month ago. 
it be over late now say hugh laugh. 
witta pluck at his long shoulder lock. but think. say he. if i have let ye go which i swear i would never have do for i love ye more than brother if i have let ye go by now ye might have be horribly slay by some mere moor in the duke of burgundy s war or ye might have be murder by land thief or ye might have die of the plague at an inn. think of this and do not blame me overmuch hugh. see. i will only take a half of the gold. 
i blame thee not at all witta say hugh. it be a joyous venture and we thirty five here have do what never men have do. if i live till england i will build me a stout keep over dallington out of my share. 
i will buy cattle and amber and warm red cloth for the wife say witta and i will hold all the land at the head of stavanger fiord. many will fight for me now. but first we must turn north and with this honest treasure aboard i pray we meet no pirate ship. 
we do not laugh. we be careful. we be afraid l we should lose one grain of our gold for which we have fight devil. 
where be the sorcerer. say i for witta be look at the wise iron in the box and i could not see the yellow man. 
he ha go to his own country say he. he rise up in the night while we be beat out of that forest in the mud and say that he could see it behind the tree. he leap out on the mud and do not answer when we call. so we call no more. he leave the wise iron which be all that i care for and see the spirit still point to the south. 
we be trouble for fear that the wise iron should fail u now that it yellow man have go and when we saw the spirit still serve u we grow afraid of too strong wind and of shoal and of careless leap fish and of all the people on all the shore where we land. 
why. say dan. 
because of the gold because of our gold. gold change men altogether. thorkild of borkum do not change. he laugh at witta for his fear and at u for our counsel witta to furl sail when the ship pitch at all. 
good be drown out of hand say thorkild of borkum than go tie to a deck load of yellow dust. 
he be a landless man and have be slave to some king in the east. he would have beat out the gold into deep band to put round the oar and round the prow. 
yet though he vex himself for the gold witta wait upon hugh like a woman lend him his shoulder when the ship roll and tie of rope from side to side that hugh might hold by them. but for hugh he say and so do all his men they would never have win the gold. i remember witta make a little thin gold ring for our bird to swing in. 
three month we row and sail and go ashore for fruit or to clean the ship. when we saw wild horseman rid among sand dune flourish spear we know we be on the moor coast and stand over north to spain. and a strong south west wind bore u in ten day to a coast of high red rock where we hear a hunt horn blow among the yellow gorse and know it be england. 
now find ye pevensey yourselves say witta. i love not these narrow ship fill sea. 
he set the dry salt head of the devil which hugh have kill high on our prow and all boat flee from u. yet for our gold s sake we be more afraid than they. we creep along the coast by night till we come to the chalk cliff and so east to pevensey. witta would not come ashore with u though hugh promise him wine at dallington enough to swim in. he be on fire to see his wife and run into the marsh after sunset and there he leave u and our share of gold and back out on the same tide. he make no promise. he swear no oath. he look for no thank. but to hugh an armless man and to me an old cripple whom he could have fling into the sea he pass over wedge upon wedge packet upon packet of gold and dust of gold and only cease when we would take no more. a he stoop from the rail to bid u farewell he strip off his right arm bracelet and put them all on hugh s leave and he kiss hugh on the cheek. i think when thorkild of borkum bid the rower give way we be near weep. it be true that witta be an heathen and a pirate. true it be he hold u by force many month in his ship but i love that bow legged blue eye man for his great boldness his cunning his skill and beyond all for his simplicity. 
do he get home all right. say dan. 
i never know. we saw him hoist sail under the moon track and stand away. i have pray that he find his wife and the child. 
and what do you do. 
we wait on the marsh till the day. then i sit by the gold all tie in an old sail while hugh go to pevensey and de aquila send u horse. 
sir richard cross hand on his sword hilt and star down stream through the soft warm shadow. 
a whole shipload of gold. say una look at the little golden hind. but i m glad i didn t see the devil. 
i don t believe they be devil dan whisper back. 
eh. say sir richard. witta s father warn him they be unquestionable devil. one must believe one s father and not one s child. what be my devil then. 
dan flush all over. i i only think he stammer. i ve get a book call the gorilla hunter it s a continuation of coral island_ sir and it say there that the gorilla. they re big monkey you know. be always chew iron up. 
not always say una. only twice. they have be read the gorilla hunter in the orchard. 
well anyhow they always drum on their chest like sir richard s do before they go for people. and they build house in tree too. 
ha. sir richard open his eye. house like flat nest do our devil make where their imp lay and look at u. i do not see them. i be sick after the fight. but witta tell me and lo ye know it also. wonderful. be our devil only nest build ape. be there no sorcery leave in the world. 
i don t know answer dan uncomfortably. i ve see a man take rabbit out of a hat and he tell u we could see how he do it if we watch hard. and we do. 
but we didn t say una sigh. oh. there s puck. 
the little fellow brown and smile peer between two stem of an ash nod and slide down the bank into the cool beside them. 
no sorcery sir richard. he laugh and blow on a full dandelion head he have pick. 
they tell me that witta s wise iron be a toy. the boy carry such an iron with him. they tell me our devil be ape call gorilla. say sir richard indignantly. 
that be the sorcery of book say puck. i warn thee they be wise child. all people can be wise by read of book. 
but be the book true. sir richard frown. i like not all this read and write. 
ye e say puck hold the naked dandelion head at arm s length. but if we hang all fellow who write falsely why do de aquila not begin with gilbert the clerk. he be false enough. 
poor false gilbert. yet in his fashion he be bold say sir richard. 
what do he do. say dan. 
he write say sir richard. be the tale meet for child think you. he look at puck. but tell u. tell u. cry dan and una together. 
thorkild s song. 
there s no wind along these sea out oar for stavanger. forward all for stavanger. so we must wake the white ash breeze let fall for stavanger. a long pull for stavanger. 
oh hear the bench creak and strain. a long pull for stavanger. she think she smell the northland rain. a long pull for stavanger. 
she think she smell the northland snow and she s a glad a we to go. 
she think she smell the northland rime and the dear dark night of winter time. 
her very bolt be sick for shore and we we want it ten time more. 
so all you god that love brave men send u a three reef gale again. 
send u a gale and watch u come with close crop canvas slash home. 
but there s no wind in all these sea. a long pull for stavanger. so we must wake the white ash breeze a long pull for stavanger. 
old men at pevensey. 
it ha naught to do with ape or devil sir richard go on in an undertone. it concern de aquila than whom there be never bold nor crafty nor more hardy knight bear. and remember he be an old old man at that time. 
when. say dan. 
when we come back from sail with witta. 
what do you do with your gold. say dan. 
have patience. link by link be chain mail make. i will tell all in it place. we bore the gold to pevensey on horseback three load of it and then up to the north chamber above the great hall of pevensey castle where de aquila lay in winter. he sit on his bed like a little white falcon turn his head swiftly from one to the other a we tell our tale. jehan the crab an old sour man at arm guard the stairway but de aquila bid him wait at the stair foot and let down both leather curtain over the door. it be jehan whom de aquila have send to u with the horse and only jehan have load the gold. when our story be tell de aquila give u the news of england for we be a men wake from a year long sleep. the red king be dead slay. ye remember. the day we set sail and henry his young brother have make himself king of england over the head of robert of normandy. this be the very thing that the red king have do to robert when our great william die. then robert of normandy mad a de aquila say at twice miss of this kingdom have send an army against england which army have be well beat back to their ship at portsmouth. a little early and witta s ship would have row through them. 
and now say de aquila half the great baron of the north and west be out against the king between salisbury and shrewsbury and half the other half wait to see which way the game shall go. they say henry be overly english for their stomach because he hath marry an english wife and she hath coax him to give back their old law to our saxon. good ride a horse on the bite he know i say. but that be only a cloak to their falsehood. he crack his finger on the table where the wine be spill and thus he speak. 
william cram u norman baron full of good english acre after santlache. i have my share too he say and clap hugh on the shoulder. but i warn him i warn him before odo rebel that he should have bid the baron give up their land and lordship in normandy if they would be english lord. now they be all but prince both in england and normandy trencher feed hound with a foot in one trough and both eye on the other. robert of normandy ha send them word that if they do not fight for him in england he will sack and harry out their land in normandy. therefore clare ha rise fitzosborne ha rise montgomery ha rise whom our first william make an english earl. even d arcy be out with his men whose father i remember a little hedge sparrow knight nearby caen. if henry win the baron can still flee to normandy where robert will welcome them. if henry lose robert he say will give them more land in england. oh a pest a pest on normandy for she will be our england s curse this many a long year. 
amen say hugh. but will the war come our way think you. 
not from the north say de aquila. but the sea be always open. if the baron gain the upper hand robert will send another army into england for sure and this time i think he will land here where his father the conqueror land. ye have bring your pig to a pretty market. half england alight and gold enough on the grind he stamp on the bar beneath the table to set every sword in christendom fight. 
what be to do. say hugh. i have no keep at dallington. and if we bury it whom could we trust. 
me say de aquila. pevensey wall be strong. no man but jehan who be my dog know what be between them. he draw a curtain by the shoot window and show u the shaft of a well in the thickness of the wall. 
i make it for a drink well he say but we find salt water and it rise and fall with the tide. hark. we hear the water whistle and blow at the bottom. will it serve. say he. 
need must say hugh. our life be in thy hand. so we lower all the gold down except one small chest of it by de aquila s bed which we keep a much for his delight in it weight and colour a for any of our need. 
in the morning ere we ride to our manor he say. i do not say farewell. because ye will return and bide here. not for love nor for sorrow but to be with the gold. have a care he say laugh l i use it to make myself pope. trust me not but return. 
sir richard pause and smile sadly. 
in seven day then we return from our manor from the manor which have be ours. 
and be the child quite well. say una. 
my son be young. land and governance belong by right to young men. sir richard be talk to himself. it would have break their heart if we have take back our manor. they make u great welcome but we could see hugh and i could see that our day be do. i be a cripple and he a one arm man. no. he shake his head. and therefore he raise his voice we ride back to pevensey. 
i m sorry say una for the knight seem very sorrowful. 
little maid it all pass long ago. they be young. we be old. we let them rule the manor. aha. cry de aquila from his shoot window when we dismount. back again to earth old fox. but when we be in his chamber above the hall he put his arm about u and say welcome ghost. welcome poor ghost. thus it fell out that we be rich beyond belief and lonely. and lonely. 
what do you do. say dan. 
we watch for robert of normandy say the knight. de aquila be like witta. he suffer no idleness. in fair weather we would ride along between bexlei on the one side to cuckmere on the other sometimes with hawk sometimes with hound. there be stout hare both on the marsh and the downland. but always with an eye to the sea for fear of fleet from normandy. in foul weather he would walk on the top of his tower frown against the rain peer here and point there. it always vex him to think how witta s ship have come and go without his knowledge. when the wind cease and ship anchor to the wharf s edge he would go and lean on his sword among the stink fish would call to the mariner for their news from france. his other eye he keep landward for word of henry s war against the baron. 
many bring him news jongleur harper pedlar sutler priest and the like. and though he be secret enough in small thing yet if their news misliked him then regard neither time nor place nor people he would curse our king henry for a fool or a babe. i have hear him cry aloud by the fish boat. if i be king of england i would do thus and thus. and when i ride out to see that the warn beacon be lay and dry he hath often call to me from the shoot window. look to it richard. do not copy our blind king but see with thine own eye and feel with thine own hand. i do not think he know any sort of fear. and so we live at pevensey in the little chamber above the hall. 
one foul night come word that a messenger of the king wait below. we be chill after a long rid in the fog towards bexlei which be an easy place for ship to land. de aquila send word the man might either eat with u or wait till we have feed. anon jehan at the stair head cry that he have call for horse and be go. pest on him. say de aquila. i have more to do than to shiver in the great hall for every gadling the king send. leave he no word. 
none say jehan except he have be with de aquila at santlache except he say that if an old dog could not learn new trick it be time to sweep out the kennel. 
oho. say de aquila rub his nose to whom do he say that. 
to his beard chiefly but some to his horse s flank a he be girth up. i follow him out say jehan the crab. 
what be his shield mark. 
gold horseshoe on black say the crab. 
that be one of fulke s men say de aquila. 
puck break in very gently gold horseshoe on black be not the fulkes shield. the fulkes arm be. 
the knight wave one hand statelily. 
thou knowest that evil man s true name he reply but i have choose to call him fulke because i promise him i would not tell the story of his wickedness so that any man might guess it. i have change all the name in my tale. his child s child may be still alive. 
true true say puck smile softly. it be knightly to keep faith even after a thousand year. 
sir richard bow a little and go on. 
gold horseshoe on black. say de aquila. i have hear fulke have join the baron but if this be true our king must be of the upper hand. no matter all fulkes be faithless. still i would not have send the man away empty. 
he feed say jehan. gilbert the clerk fetch him meat and wine from the kitchen. he eat at gilbert s table. 
this gilbert be a clerk from battle abbey who keep the account of the manor of pevensey. he be tall and pale colour and carry those new fashion bead for count of prayer. they be large brown nut or seed and hang from his girdle with his pen and inkhorn they clash when he walk. his place be in the great fireplace. there be his table of account and there he lay o night. he fear the hound in the hall that come nose after bone or to sleep on the warm ash and would slash at them with his bead like a woman. when de aquila sit in hall to do justice take fine or grant land gilbert would so write it in the manor roll. but it be none of his work to fee our guest or to let them depart without his lord s knowledge. 
say de aquila after jehan be go down the stair. hugh hast thou ever tell my gilbert thou canst read latin hand of write. 
no say hugh. he be no friend to me or to odo my hound either. no matter say de aquila. let him never know thou canst tell one letter from it fellow and here he jerk u in the rib with his scabbard watch him both of ye. there be devil in africa a i have hear but by the saint there be great devil in pevensey. and that be all he would say. 
it chance some small while afterwards a norman man at arm would wed a saxon wench of the manor and gilbert. we have watch him well since de aquila speak. doubt whether her folk be free or slave. since de aquila would give them a field of good land if she be free the matter come up at the justice in great hall before de aquila. first the wench s father speak. then her mother. then all together till the hall ring and the hound bay. de aquila hold up his hand. write her free he call to gilbert by the fireplace. a god s name write her free before she deafen me. yes yes he say to the wench that be on her knee at him. thou art cerdic s sister and own cousin to the lady of mercia if thou wilt be silent. in fifty year there will be neither norman nor saxon but all english say he and these be the men that do our work. he clap the man at arm that be jehan s nephew on the shoulder and kiss the wench and fret with his foot among the rush to show it be finish. the great hall be always bitter cold. i stand at his side. hugh be behind gilbert in the fireplace make to play with wise rough odo. he sign to de aquila who bid gilbert measure the new field for the new couple. out then run our gilbert between man and maid his bead clash at his waist and the hall be empty we three sit by the fire. 
say hugh lean down to the hearthstone i saw this stone move under gilbert s foot when odo snuff at it. look. de aquila digged in the ash with his sword. the stone tilt. beneath it lay a parchment folden and the write atop be. word speak against the king by our lord of pevensey the second part. 
here be set out. hugh read it u whisper. every jest de aquila have make to u touch the king. every time he have call out to me from the shoot window and every time he have say what he would do if he be king of england. yes day by day have his daily speech which he never stint be set down by gilbert trick out and twist from it true mean yet withal so cunningly that none could deny who know him that de aquila have in some sort speak those word. ye see. 
dan and una nod. 
yes say una gravely. it isn t what you say so much. it s what you mean when you say it. like call dan a beast in fun. only grow up don t always understand. 
he hath do this day by day before our very face. say de aquila. 
nay hour by hour say hugh. when de aquila speak even now in the hall of saxon and norman i saw gilbert write on a parchment which he keep beside the manor roll that de aquila say soon there would be no norman leave in england if his men at arm do their work aright. 
bone of the saint. say de aquila. what avail be honour or a sword against a pen. where do gilbert hide that write. he shall eat it. 
in his breast when he run out say hugh. which make me look to see where he keep his finish stuff. when odo scratch at this stone here i saw his face change. so i be sure. 
he be bold say de aquila. do him justice. in his own fashion my gilbert be bold. 
overbold say hugh. hearken here and he read. upon the feast of st agatha our lord of pevensey lie in his upper chamber be clothe in his second fur gown reverse with rabbit. 
pest on him. he be not my tire woman. say de aquila and hugh and i laugh. 
reverse with rabbit see a fog over the marsh do wake sir richard dalyngridge his drunken cup mate. here they laugh at me. and say peer out old fox for god be on the duke of normandy s side. 
so do i. it be a black fog. robert could have land ten thousand men and we none the wise. doe he tell how we be out all day rid the marsh and how i near perish in a quicksand and cough like a sick ewe for ten day after. cry de aquila. 
no say hugh. but here be the prayer of gilbert himself to his master fulke. 
ah say de aquila. well i know it be fulke. what be the price of my blood. 
gilbert prayeth that when our lord of pevensey be strip of his land on this evidence which gilbert hath with fear and pain collect. 
fear and pain be a true word say de aquila and suck in his cheek. but how excellent a weapon be a pen. i must learn it. 
he pray that fulke will advance him from his present service to that honour in the church which fulke promise him. and l fulke should forget he ha write below to be sacristan of battle. 
at this de aquila whistle. a man who can plot against one lord can plot against another. when i be strip of my land fulke will whip off my gilbert s foolish head. none the le battle need a new sacristan. they tell me the abbot henry keep no sort of rule there. 
let the abbot wait say hugh. it be our head and our land that be in danger. this parchment be the second part of the tale. the first ha go to fulke and so to the king who will hold u traitor. 
assuredly say de aquila. fulke s man take the first part that even when gilbert feed him and our king be so beset by his brother and his baron. small blame too. that he be mad with mistrust. fulke ha his ear and pour poison into it. presently the king give him my land and yours. this be old and he lean back and yawn. 
and thou wilt surrender pevensey without word or blow. say hugh. we saxon will fight your king then. i will go warn my nephew at dallington. give me a horse. 
give thee a toy and a rattle say de aquila. put back the parchment and rake over the ash. if fulke be give my pevensey which be england s gate what will he do with it. he be norman at heart and his heart be in normandy where he can kill peasant at his pleasure. he will open england s gate to our sleepy robert a odo and mortain try to do and then there will be another land and another santlache. therefore i cannot give up pevensey. 
good say we two. 
ah but wait. if my king be make on gilbert s evidence to mistrust me he will send his men against me here and while we fight england s gate be leave unguarded. who will be the first to come through thereby. even robert of normandy. therefore i cannot fight my king. he nurse his sword thus. 
this be say and unsay like a norman say hugh. what of our manor. 
i do not think for myself say de aquila nor for our king nor for your land. i think for england for whom neither king nor baron think. i be not norman sir richard nor saxon sir hugh. english be i. 
saxon norman or english say hugh our life be thine however the game go. when do we hang gilbert. 
never say de aquila. who know he may yet be sacristan of battle for to do him justice he be a good writer. dead men make dumb witness. wait. 
but the king may give pevensey to fulke. and our manor go with it say i. shall we tell our son. 
no. the king will not wake up a hornet nest in the south till he ha smoke out the bee in the north. he may hold me a traitor. but at least he see i be not fight against him. and every day that i lie still be so much gain to him while he fight the baron. if he be wise he would wait till that war be over before he make new enemy. but i think fulke will play upon him to send for me and if i do not obey the summon that will to henry s mind be proof of my treason. but mere talk such a gilbert send be no proof nowadays. we baron follow the church and like anselm we speak what we please. let u go about our day s dealing and say naught to gilbert. 
then we do nothing. say hugh. 
we wait say de aquila. i be old but still i find that the most grievous work i know. 
and so we find it but in the end de aquila be right. 
a little late in the year arm men ride over the hill the golden horseshoe fly behind the king s banner. say de aquila at the window of our chamber. how do i tell you. here come fulke himself to spy out his new land which our king hath promise him if he can bring proof of my treason. 
how dost thou know. say hugh. 
because that be what i would do if i be fulke but i should have bring more men. my roan horse to your old shoe say he fulke bring me the king s summon to leave pevensey and join the war. he suck in his cheek and drum on the edge of the shaft where the water sound all hollow. 
shall we go. say i. 
go. at this time of year. stark madness say he. take me from pevensey to fisk and flyte through fern and forest and in three day robert s keel would be lie on pevensey mud with ten thousand men. who would stop them fulke. 
the horn blow without and anon fulke cry the king s summon at the great door that de aquila with all men and horse should join the king s camp at salisbury. 
how do i tell you. say de aquila. there be twenty baron twixt here and salisbury could give king henry good land service but he ha be work upon by fulke to send south and call me me. off the gate of england when his enemy stand about to batter it in. see that fulke s men lie in the big south barn say he. give them drink and when fulke ha eat we will drink in my chamber. the great hall be too cold for old bone. 
a soon a he be off horse fulke go to the chapel with gilbert to give thank for his safe come and when he have eat he be a fat man and roll his eye greedily at our good roast sussex wheatear we lead him to the little upper chamber whither gilbert have already go with the manor roll. i remember when fulke hear the tide blow and whistle in the shaft he leap back and his long down turn stirrup shoe catch in the rush and he stumble so that jehan behind him find it easy to knock his head against the wall. 
do you know it be go to happen. say dan. 
assuredly say sir richard with a sweet smile. i put my foot on his sword and pluck away his dagger but he know not whether it be day or night for awhile. he lay roll his eye and bubble with his mouth and jehan rope him like a calf. he be case all in that newfangled armour which we call lizard mail. not ring like my hauberk here sir richard tap his chest but little piece of dagger proof steel overlap on stout leather. we strip it off. no need to spoil good harness by wet it. and in the neck piece de aquila find the same folden piece of parchment which we have put back under the hearthstone. 
at this gilbert would have run out. i lay my hand on his shoulder. it suffice. he fell to tremble and pray on his bead. 
gilbert say de aquila here be more notable saying and do of our lord of pevensey for thee to write down. take pen and ink horn gilbert. we cannot all be sacristan of battle. 
say fulke from the floor ye have bind a king s messenger. pevensey shall burn for this. 
maybe. i have see it besiege once say de aquila but heart up fulke. i promise thee that thou shalt be hang in the middle of the flame at the end of that siege if i have to share my last loaf with thee. and that be more than odo would have do when we starve out him and mortain. 
then fulke sit up and look long and cunningly at de aquila. 
by the saint say he why didst thou not say thou wast on the duke robert s side at the first. 
be i. say de aquila. 
fulke laugh and say no man who serf king henry dare do this much to his messenger. when didst thou come over to the duke. let me up and we can smooth it out together. and he smile and becked and wink. 
yes we will smooth it out say de aquila. he nod to me and jehan and i heave up fulke he be a heavy man and lower him into the shaft by a rope not so a to stand on our gold but dangle by his shoulder a little above. it be turn of ebb and the water come to his knee. he say nothing but shiver somewhat. 
then jehan of a sudden beat down gilbert s wrist with his sheathe dagger. stop. he say. he swallow his bead. 
poison belike say de aquila. it be good for men who know too much. i have carry it these thirty year. give me. 
then gilbert weep and howl. de aquila run the bead through his finger. the last one i have say they be large nut open in two half on a pin and there be a small fold parchment within. on it be write. _the old dog go to salisbury to be beat. i have his kennel. come quickly. 
this be bad than poison say de aquila very softly and suck in his cheek. then gilbert grovel in the rush and tell u all he know. the letter a we guess be from fulke to the duke. and not the first that have pass between them. fulke have give it to gilbert in the chapel and gilbert think to have take it by morning to a certain fish boat at the wharf which traffic between pevensey and the french shore. gilbert be a false fellow but he find time between his quake and shaking to swear that the master of the boat know nothing of the matter. 
he hath call me shave head say gilbert and he hath throw haddock gut at me. but for all that he be no traitor. 
i will have no clerk of mine mishandle or miscall say de aquila. that seaman shall be whip at his own mast. write me first a letter and thou shalt bear it with the order for the whip to morrow to the boat. 
at this gilbert would have kiss de aquila s hand he have not hop to live until the morning and when he tremble le he write a letter a from fulke to the duke say that the kennel which signify pevensey be shut and that the old dog. which be de aquila. sit outside it and moreover that all have be betray. 
write to any man that all be betray say de aquila and even the pope himself would sleep uneasily. eh jehan. if one tell thee all be betray what wouldst thou do. 
i would run away say jehan. it might be true. 
well say quoth de aquila. write gilbert that montgomery the great earl hath make his peace with the king and that little d arcy whom i hate hath be hang by the heel. we will give robert full measure to chew upon. write also that fulke himself be sick to death of a dropsy. 
nay. cry fulke hang in the well shaft. drown me out of hand but do not make a jest of me. 
jest. i. say de aquila. i be but fight for life and land with a pen a thou hast show me fulke. 
then fulke groan for he be cold and let me confess say he. 
now this be right neighbourly say de aquila lean over the shaft. thou hast read my saying and do or at least the first part of them and thou art mind to repay me with thy own do and saying. take pen and inkhorn gilbert. here be work that will not irk thee. 
let my men go without hurt and i will confess my treason against the king say fulke. 
now why ha he grow so tender of his men of a sudden. say hugh to me. for fulke have no name for mercy to his men. plunder he give them but pity none. 
té. té. say de aquila. thy treason be all confess long ago by gilbert. it would be enough to hang montgomery himself. 
nay. but spare my men say fulke. and we hear him splash like a fish in a pond for the tide be rise. 
all in good time say de aquila. the night be young. the wine be old. and we need only the merry tale. begin the story of thy life since when thou wast a lad at tour. tell it nimbly. 
ye shame me to my soul say fulke. 
then i have do what neither king nor duke could do say de aquila. but begin and forget nothing. 
send thy man away say fulke. 
that much can i do say de aquila. but remember i be like the dane king. i cannot turn the tide. 
how long will it rise. say fulke and splash anew. 
for three hour say de aquila. time to tell all thy good deed. begin and gilbert i have hear thou art somewhat careless do not twist his word from his true mean. 
so fear of death in the dark be upon him fulke begin and gilbert not know what his fate might be write it word by word. i have hear many tale but never hear i aught to match the tale of fulke his black life a fulke tell it hollowly hang in the shaft. 
be it bad. say dan awestruck. 
beyond belief sir richard answer. none the le there be that in it which force even gilbert to laugh. we three laugh till we ache. at one place his teeth so chatter that we could not well hear and we reach him down a cup of wine. then he warm to it and smoothly set out all his shift malice and treachery his extreme boldness. he be desperate bold. his retreat shuffling and counterfeit. he be also inconceivably a coward. his lack of gear and honour. his despair at their loss. his remedy and well colour contrivance. yes he wave the filthy rag of his life before u a though they have be some proud banner. when he cease we saw by torch that the tide stand at the corner of his mouth and he breathe strongly through his nose. 
we have him out and rub him. we wrap him in a cloak and give him wine and we lean and look upon him the while he drink. he be shiver but shameless. 
of a sudden we hear jehan at the stairway wake but a boy push past him and stand before u the hall rush in his hair all slubbered with sleep. my father. my father. i dream of treachery he cry and babble thickly. 
there be no treachery here say fulke. go. and the boy turn even then not fully awake and jehan lead him by the hand to the great hall. 
thy only son. say de aquila. why didst thou bring the child here. 
he be my heir. i dare not trust him to my brother say fulke and now he be ashamed. de aquila say nothing but sit weigh a wine cup in his two hand thus. anon fulke touch him on the knee. 
let the boy escape to normandy say he and do with me at thy pleasure. yea hang me tomorrow with my letter to robert round my neck but let the boy go. 
be still say de aquila. i think for england. 
so we wait what our lord of pevensey should devise. and the sweat run down fulke s forehead. 
at last say de aquila. i be too old to judge or to trust any man. i do not covet thy land a thou hast covet mine. and whether thou art any good or any bad than any other black angevin thief it be for thy king to find out. therefore go back to thy king fulke. 
and thou wilt say nothing of what ha pass. say fulke. 
why should i. thy son will stay with me. if the king call me again to leave pevensey which i must guard against england s enemy. if the king send his men against me for a traitor. or if i hear that the king in his bed think any evil of me or my two knight thy son will be hang from out this window fulke. 
but it hadn t anything to do with his son cry una startle. 
how could we have hang fulke. say sir richard. we need him to make our peace with the king. he would have betray half england for the boy s sake. of that we be sure. 
i don t understand say una. but i think it be simply awful. 
so do not fulke. he be well please. 
what. because his son be go to be kill. 
nay. because de aquila have show him how he might save the boy s life and his own land and honour. i will do it he say. i swear i will do it. i will tell the king thou art no traitor but the most excellent valiant and perfect of u all. yes i will save thee. 
de aquila look still into the bottom of the cup roll the wine dreg to and fro. 
ay he say. if i have a son i would i think save him. but do not by any mean tell me how thou wilt go about it. 
nay nay say fulke nod his bald head wisely. that be my secret. but rest at ease de aquila no hair of thy head nor rood of thy land shall be forfeit and he smile like one plan great good deed. 
and henceforward say de aquila i counsel thee to serve one master not two. 
what. say fulke. can i work no more honest trade between the two side these troublous time. 
serve robert or the king england or normandy say de aquila. i care not which it be but make thy choice here and now. 
the king then say fulke for i see he be good serve than robert. shall i swear it. 
no need say de aquila and he lay his hand on the parchment which gilbert have write. it shall be some part of my gilbert s penance to copy out the savoury tale of thy life till we have make ten twenty an hundred maybe copy. how many cattle think you would the bishop of tour give for that tale. or thy brother. or the monk of blois. minstrel will turn it into song which thy own saxon serf shall sing behind their plough stilt and men at arm rid through thy norman town. from here to rome fulke men will make very merry over that tale and how fulke tell it hang in a well like a drown puppy. this shall be thy punishment if ever i find thee double deal with thy king any more. meantime the parchment stay here with thy son. him i will return to thee when thou hast make my peace with the king. the parchment never. 
fulke hide his face and groan. 
bone of the saint. say de aquila laugh. the pen cut deep. i could never have fetch that grunt out of thee with any sword. 
but so long a i do not anger thee my tale will be secret. say fulke. 
just so long. doe that comfort thee fulke. say de aquila. 
what other comfort have ye leave me. he say and of a sudden he weep hopelessly like a child drop his face on his knee. 
poor fulke say una. 
i pity him also say sir richard. 
after the spur corn say de aquila and he throw fulke three wedge of gold that he have take from our little chest by the bedplace. 
if i have know this say fulke catch his breath i would never have lift hand against pevensey. only lack of this yellow stuff ha make me so unlucky in my dealing. 
it be dawn then and they stir in the great hall below. we send down fulke s mail to be scour and when he ride away at noon under his own and the king s banner very splendid and stately do he show. he smooth his long beard and call his son to his stirrup and kiss him. de aquila ride with him a far a the new mill landward. we think the night have be all a dream. 
but do he make it right with the king. dan ask. about your not be traitor i mean. 
sir richard smile. the king send no second summon to pevensey nor do he ask why de aquila have not obey the first. yes that be fulke s work. i know not how he do it but it be well and swiftly do. 
then you didn t do anything to his son. say una. 
the boy. oh he be an imp. he turn the keep door out of dortoirs while we have him. he sing foul song learn in the baron camp poor fool. he set the hound fight in hall. he light the rush to drive out a he say the flea. he draw his dagger on jehan who throw him down the stairway for it. and he ride his horse through crop and among sheep. but when we have beat him and show him wolf and deer he follow u old men like a young eager hound and call u uncle. his father come the summer s end to take him away but the boy have no lust to go because of the otter hunt and he stay on till the fox hunt. i give him a bittern s claw to bring him good luck at shoot. an imp if ever there be. 
and what happen to gilbert. say dan. 
not even a whip. de aquila say he would sooner a clerk however false that know the manor roll than a fool however true that must be teach his work afresh. moreover after that night i think gilbert love a much a he fear de aquila. at least he would not leave u not even when vivian the king s clerk would have make him sacristan of battle abbey. a false fellow but in his fashion bold. 
do robert ever land in pevensey after all. dan go on. 
we guard the coast too well while henry be fight his baron. and three or four year late when england have peace henry cross to normandy and show his brother some work at tenchebrai that cure robert of fight. many of henry s men sail from pevensey to that war. fulke come i remember and we all four lay in the little chamber once again and drink together. de aquila be right. one should not judge men. fulke be merry. yes always merry with a catch in his breath. 
and what do you do afterwards. say una. 
we talk together of time past. that be all men can do when they grow old little maid. 
the bell for tea ring faintly across the meadow. dan lay in the bow of the golden hind. una in the stern the book of verse open in her lap be read from the slave s dream. 
again in the mist and shadow of sleep he saw his native land. 
i don t know when you begin that say dan sleepily. 
on the middle thwart of the boat beside una s sun bonnet lay an oak leaf an ash leaf and a thorn leaf that must have drop down from the tree above. and the brook giggle a though it have just see some joke. 
the rune on weland s sword. 
a smith make me to betray my man in my first fight. 
to gather gold at the world s end i be send. 
the gold i gather come into england out of deep water. 
like a shin fish then it descend into deep water. 
it be not give for good or gear but for the thing. 
the gold i gather a king covet for an ill use. 
the gold i gather be draw up out of deep water. 
like a shin fish then it descend into deep water. 
it be not give for good or gear but for the thing. 
a centurion of the thirtieth. 
city and throne and power stand in time s eye almost a long a flower which daily die. but a new bud put forth to glad new men out of the spend and unconsidered earth the city rise again. 
this season s daffodil she never hear what change what chance what chill cut down last year s. but with bold countenance and knowledge small esteem her seven day continuance to be perpetual. 
so time that be o er kind to all that be ordain u e en a blind a bold a she. that in our very death and burial sure shadow to shadow well persuade saith see how our work endure. 
a centurion of the thirtieth. 
dan have come to grief over his latin and be keep in. so una go alone to far wood. dan s big catapult and the lead bullet that hobden have make for him be hide in an old hollow beech stub on the west of the wood. they have name the place out of the verse in lay of ancient rome. 
from lordly volaterrae where scowl the far famed hold pile by the hand of giant for godlike king of old. 
they be the godlike king and when old hobden pile some comfortable brushwood between the big wooden knee of volaterrae they call him hand of giant. 
una slip through their private gap in the fence and sit still awhile scowl a scowlily and lordlily a she know how. for volaterrae be an important watch tower that jut out of far wood just a far wood jut out of the hillside. pook s hill lay below her and all the turn of the brook a it wander out of the willingford wood between hop garden to old hobden s cottage at the forge. the sou west wind. there be always a wind by volaterrae. blow from the bare ridge where cherry clack windmill stand. 
now wind prowl through wood sound like excite thing go to happen and that be why on blowy day you stand up in volaterrae and shout bit of the lay to suit it noise. 
una take dan s catapult from it secret place and make ready to meet lars porsena s army steal through the wind whiten aspen by the brook. a gust boom up the valley and una chant sorrowfully. 
verbenna down to ostia hath waste all the plain. astur hath storm janiculum and the stout guard be slay. 
but the wind not charge fair to the wood start aside and shake a single oak in gleason s pasture. here it make itself all small and crouch among the grass wave the tip of them a a cat wave the tip of her tail before she spring. 
now welcome welcome sextus sing una load the catapult. 
now welcome to thy home. why dost thou stay and turn away. here lie the road to rome. 
she fire into the face of the lull to wake up the cowardly wind and hear a grunt from behind a thorn in the pasture. 
oh my winkie. she say aloud and that be something she have pick up from dan. i b lieve i ve tickle up a gleason cow. 
you little paint beast. a voice cry. i ll teach you to sling your master. 
she look down most cautiously and saw a young man cover with hoopy bronze armour all glow among the late broom. but what una admire beyond all be his great bronze helmet with a red horse tail that flick in the wind. she could hear the long hair rasp on his shimmery shoulder plate. 
what doe the faun mean he say half aloud to himself by tell me that the paint people have change. he catch sight of una s yellow head. have you see a paint lead slinger. he call. 
no o say una. but if you ve see a bullet. 
see. cry the man. it pass within a hair s breadth of my ear. 
well that be me. i m most awfully sorry. 
didn t the faun tell you i be come. he smile. 
not if you mean puck. i think you be a gleason cow. i i didn t know you be a a what be you. 
he laugh outright show a set of splendid teeth. his face and eye be dark and his eyebrow meet above his big nose in one bushy black bar. 
they call me parnesius. i have be a centurion of the seventh cohort of the thirtieth legion the ulpia victrix. do you sling that bullet. 
i do. i be use dan s catapult say una. 
catapult. say he. i ought to know something about them. show me. 
he leap the rough fence with a rattle of spear shield and armour and hoist himself into volaterrae a quickly a a shadow. 
a sling on a fork stick. i understand. he cry and pull at the elastic. but what wonderful beast yield this stretch leather. 
it s laccy elastic. you put the bullet into that loop and then you pull hard. 
the man pull and hit himself square on his thumb nail. 
each to his own weapon he say gravely hand it back. i be good with the big machine little maiden. but it s a pretty toy. a wolf would laugh at it. aren t you afraid of wolf. 
there aren t any say una. 
never believe it. a wolf s like a wing hat. he come when he isn t expect. don t they hunt wolf here. 
we don t hunt say una remember what she have hear from grow up. we preserve pheasant. do you know them. 
i ought to say the young man smile again and he imitate the cry of the cock pheasant so perfectly that a bird answer out of the wood. 
what a big paint cluck fool be a pheasant. he say. just like some roman. 
but you re a roman yourself aren t you. say una. 
ye e and no. i m one of a good few thousand who have never see rome except in a picture. my people have live at vectis for generation. vectis that island west yonder that you can see from so far in clear weather. 
do you mean the isle of wight. it lift up just before rain and you see it from the down. 
very likely. our villa s on the south edge of the island by the break cliff. most of it be three hundred year old but the cow stable where our first ancestor live must be a hundred year old. oh quite that because the founder of our family have his land give him by agricola at the settlement. it s not a bad little place for it size. in spring time violet grow down to the very beach. i ve gather sea weed for myself and violet for my mother many a time with our old nurse. 
be your nurse a a romaness too. 
no a numidian. god be good to her. a dear fat brown thing with a tongue like a cowbell. she be a free woman. by the way be you free maiden. 
oh quite say una. at least till tea time. and in summer our govern doesn t say much if we re late. 
the young man laugh again a proper understand laugh. 
i see say he. that account for your be in the wood. we hide among the cliff. 
do you have a govern then. 
do we not. a greek too. she have a way of clutch her dress when she hunt u among the gorse bush that make u laugh. then she d say she d get u whip. she never do though bless her. aglaia be a thorough sportswoman for all her learn. 
but what lesson do you do when when you be little. 
ancient history the classic arithmetic and so on he answer. my sister and i be thick head but my two brother. i m the middle one. like those thing and of course mother be clever enough for any six. she be nearly a tall a i be and she look like the new statue on the western road the demeter of the basket you know. and funny. rom dea. how mother could make u laugh. 
what at. 
little joke and saying that every family ha. don t you know. 
i know we have but i didn t know other people have them too say una. tell me about all your family please. 
good family be very much alike. mother would sit spin of evening while aglaia read in her corner and father do account and we four romp about the passage. when our noise grow too loud the pater would say le tumult. le tumult. have you never hear of a father s right over his child. he can slay them my love slay them dead and the god highly approve of the action. then mother would prim up her dear mouth over the wheel and answer. h m. i m afraid there can t be much of the roman father about you. then the pater would roll up his account and say i ll show you. and then then he d be bad than any of u. 
father can if they like say una her eye dance. 
didn t i say all good family be very much the same. 
what do you do in summer. say una. play about like u. 
yes and we visit our friend. there be no wolf in vectis. we have many friend and a many pony a we wish. 
it must have be lovely say una. i hope it last for ever. 
not quite little maid. when i be about sixteen or seventeen the father felt gouty and we all go to the water. 
what water. 
at aqua solis. every one go there. you ought to get your father to take you some day. 
but where. i don t know say una. 
the young man look astonish for a moment. aqua solis he repeat. the best bath in britain. just a good i m tell a rome. all the old glutton sit in hot water and talk scandal and politics. and the general come through the street with their guard behind them. and the magistrate come in their chair with their stiff guard behind them. and you meet fortune teller and goldsmith and merchant and philosopher and feather seller and ultra roman briton and ultra british roman and tame tribesman pretend to be civilise and jew lecturer and oh everybody interest. we young people of course take no interest in politics. we have not the gout. there be many of our age like u. we do not find life sad. 
but while we be enjoy ourselves without think my sister meet the son of a magistrate in the west and a year afterwards she be marry to him. my young brother who be always interest in plant and root meet the first doctor of a legion from the city of the legion and he decide that he would be an army doctor. i do not think it be a profession for a well bear man but then i m not my brother. he go to rome to study medicine and now he s first doctor of a legion in egypt at antinoe i think but i have not hear from him for some time. 
my eldest brother come across a greek philosopher and tell my father that he intend to settle down on the estate a a farmer and a philosopher. you see the young man s eye twinkle his philosopher be a long haired one. 
i think philosopher be bald say una. 
not all. she be very pretty. i don t blame him. nothing could have suit me good than my eldest brother s do this for i be only too keen to join the army. i have always fear i should have to stay at home and look after the estate while my brother take this. 
he rap on his great glisten shield that never seem to be in his way. 
so we be well content we young people and we ride back to clausentum along the wood road very quietly. but when we reach home aglaia our govern saw what have come to u. i remember her at the door the torch over her head watch u climb the cliff path from the boat. aie. aie. she say. child you go away. men and a woman you return. then she kiss mother and mother weep. thus our visit to the water settle our fate for each of u maiden. 
he rise to his foot and listen lean on the shield rim. 
i think that s dan my brother say una. 
yes. and the faun be with him he reply a dan with puck stumble through the copse. 
we should have come sooner puck call but the beauty of your native tongue o parnesius have enthral this young citizen. 
parnesius look bewilder even when una explain. 
dan say the plural of dominus be domino and when miss blake say it wasn t he say he suppose it be backgammon and so he have to write it out twice for cheek you know. 
dan have climb into volaterrae hot and pant. 
i ve run nearly all the way he gasp and then puck meet me. how do you do sir. 
i be in good health parnesius answer. see. i have try to bend the bow of ulysses but he hold up his thumb. 
i m sorry. you must have pull off too soon say dan. but puck say you be tell una a story. 
continue o parnesius say puck who have perch himself on a dead branch above them. i will be chorus. ha he puzzle you much una. 
not a bite except i didn t know where ak ak something be she answer. 
oh aqua solis. that s bath where the bun come from. let the hero tell his own tale. 
parnesius pretend to thrust his spear at puck s leg but puck reach down catch at the horse tail plume and pull off the tall helmet. 
thank jester say parnesius shake his curly dark head. that be cool. now hang it up for me. 
i be tell your sister how i join the army he say to dan. 
do you have to pas an exam. dan ask eagerly. 
no. i go to my father and say i should like to enter the dacian horse. i have see some at aqua solis. but he say i have good begin service in a regular legion from rome. now like many of our youngster i be not too fond of anything roman. the roman bear officer and magistrate look down on u british bear a though we be barbarian. i tell my father so. 
i know they do he say. but remember after all we be the people of the old stock and our duty be to the empire. 
to which empire. i ask. we split the eagle before i be bear. 
what thief talk be that. say my father. he hat slang. 
well sir i say we ve one emperor in rome and i don t know how many emperor the outlying province have set up from time to time. which be i to follow. 
gratian say he. at least he s a sportsman. 
he s all that i say. hasn t he turn himself into a raw beef eat scythian. 
where do you hear of it. say the pater. 
at aqua solis i say. it be perfectly true. this precious emperor gratian of ours have a bodyguard of fur cloak scythian and he be so crazy about them that he dress like them. in rome of all place in the world. it be a bad a if my own father have paint himself blue. 
no matter for the clothe say the pater. they be only the fringe of the trouble. it begin before your time or mine. rome ha forsake her god and must be punish. the great war with the paint people break out in the very year the temple of our god be destroy. we beat the paint people in the very year our temple be rebuild. go back further still. he go back to the time of diocletian. and to listen to him you would have think eternal rome herself be on the edge of destruction just because a few people have become a little large mind. 
i know nothing about it. aglaia never teach u the history of our own country. she be so full of her ancient greek. 
there be no hope for rome say the pater at last. she ha forsake her god but if the god forgive u here we may save britain. to do that we must keep the paint people back. therefore i tell you parnesius a a father that if your heart be set on service your place be among men on the wall and not with woman among the city. 
what wall. ask dan and una at once. 
father mean the one we call hadrian s wall. i ll tell you about it late. it be build long ago across north britain to keep out the paint people picts you call them. father have fight in the great pict war that last more than twenty year and he know what fight mean. theodosius one of our great general have chase the little beast back far into the north before i be bear. down at vectis of course we never trouble our head about them. but when my father speak a he do i kiss his hand and wait for order. we british bear roman know what be due to our parent. 
if i kiss my father s hand he d laugh say dan. 
custom change. but if you do not obey your father the god remember it. you may be quite sure of that. 
after our talk see i be in earnest the pater send me over to clausentum to learn my foot drill in a barrack full of foreign auxiliary a unwashed and unshaved a mob of mix barbarian a ever scrub a breastplate. it be your stick in their stomach and your shield in their face to push them into any sort of formation. when i have learn my work the instructor give me a handful and they be a handful. of gaul and iberian to polish up till they be send to their station up country. i do my best and one night a villa in the suburb catch fire and i have my handful out and at work before any of the other troop. i notice a quiet look man on the lawn lean on a stick. he watch u pass bucket from the pond and at last he say to me. who be you. 
a probationer wait for a command i answer. i didn t know who he be from deucalion. 
bear in britain. he say. 
yes if you be bear in spain i say for he neigh his word like an iberian mule. 
and what might you call yourself when you be at home. he say laugh. 
that depend i answer. sometimes one thing and sometimes another. but now i m busy. 
he say no more till we have save the family god. they be respectable householder. and then he grunt across the laurel. listen young sometimes one thing and sometimes another. in future call yourself centurion of the seventh cohort of the thirtieth the ulpia victrix. that will help me to remember you. your father and a few other people call me maximus. 
he toss me the polish stick he be lean on and go away. you might have knock me down with it. 
who be he. say dan. 
maximus himself our great general. the general of britain who have be theodosius s right hand in the pict war. not only have he give me my centurion s stick direct but three step in a good legion a well. a new man generally begin in the tenth cohort of his legion and work up. 
and be you please. say una. 
very. i think maximus have choose me for my good look and fine style in march but when i go home the pater tell me he have serve under maximus in the great pict war and have ask him to befriend me. 
a child you be. say puck from above. 
i be say parnesius. don t begrudge it me faun. afterwards the god know i put aside the game. and puck nod brown chin on brown hand his big eye still. 
the night before i leave we sacrifice to our ancestor the usual little home sacrifice but i never pray so earnestly to all the good shade and then i go with my father by boat to regnum and across the chalk eastward to anderida yonder. 
regnum. anderida. the child turn their face to puck. 
regnum s chichester he say point towards cherry clack and he throw his arm south behind him anderida s pevensey. 
pevensey again. say dan. where weland land. 
weland and a few others say puck. pevensey isn t young even compare to me. 
the headquarter of the thirtieth lay at anderida in summer but my own cohort the seventh be on the wall up north. maximus be inspect auxiliary the abulci i think at anderida and we stay with him for he and my father be very old friend. i be only there ten day when i be order to go up with thirty men to my cohort. he laugh merrily. a man never forget his first march. i be happy than any emperor when i lead my handful through the north gate of the camp and we salute the guard and the altar of victory there. 
how. how. say dan and una. 
parnesius smile and stand up flash in his armour. 
so. say he. and he move slowly through the beautiful movement of the roman salute that end with a hollow clang of the shield come into it place between the shoulder. 
hai. say puck. that set one think. 
we go out fully arm say parnesius sit down. but a soon a the road enter the great forest my men expect the pack horse to hang their shield on. no. i say. you can dress like woman in anderida but while you re with me you will carry your own weapon and armour. 
but it s hot say one of them and we haven t a doctor. suppose we get sunstroke or a fever. 
then die i say and a good riddance to rome. up shield up spear and tighten your foot wear. 
don t think yourself emperor of britain already a fellow shout. i knock him over with the butt of my spear and explain to these roman bear roman that if there be any further trouble we should go on with one man short. and by the light of the sun i mean it too. my raw gaul at clausentum have never treat me so. 
then quietly a a cloud maximus ride out of the fern. my father behind him. and rein up across the road. he wear the purple a though he be already emperor. his legging be of white buckskin lace with gold. 
my men drop like like partridge. 
he say nothing for some time only look with his eye pucker. then he crook his forefinger and my men walk crawl i mean to one side. 
stand in the sun child he say and they form up on the hard road. 
what would you have do he say to me if i have not be here. 
i should have kill that man i answer. 
kill him now he say. he will not move a limb. 
no i say. you ve take my men out of my command. i should only be your butch if i kill him now. do you see what i mean. parnesius turn to dan. 
yes say dan. it wouldn t have be fair somehow. 
that be what i think say parnesius. but maximus frown. you ll never be an emperor he say. not even a general will you be. 
i be silent but my father seem please. 
i come here to see the last of you he say. 
you have see it say maximus. i shall never need your son any more. he will live and he will die an officer of a legion and he might have be prefect of one of my province. now eat and drink with u he say. your men will wait till you have finish. 
my miserable thirty stand like wine skin glisten in the hot sun and maximus lead u to where his people have set a meal. himself he mix the wine. 
a year from now he say you will remember that you have sit with the emperor of britain and gaul. 
yes say the pater you can drive two mule gaul and britain. 
five year hence you will remember that you have drink he pass me the cup and there be blue borage in it with the emperor of rome. 
no. you can t drive three mule. they will tear you in piece say my father. 
and you on the wall among the heather will weep because your notion of justice be more to you than the favour of the emperor of rome. 
i sit quite still. one doe not answer a general who wear the purple. 
i be not angry with you he go on. i owe too much to your father. 
you owe me nothing but advice that you never take say the pater. 
to be unjust to any of your family. indeed i say you may make a good tribune but so far a i be concern on the wall you will live and on the wall you will die say maximus. 
very like say my father. but we shall have the picts and their friend break through before long. you cannot move all troop out of britain to make you emperor and expect the north to sit quiet. 
i follow my destiny say maximus. 
follow it then say my father pull up a fern root. and die a theodosius die. 
ah. say maximus. my old general be kill because he serve the empire too well. i may be kill but not for that reason and he smile a little pale grey smile that make my blood run cold. 
then i have good follow my destiny i say and take my men to the wall. 
he look at me a long time and bow his head slant like a spaniard. follow it boy he say. that be all. i be only too glad to get away though i have many message for home. i find my men stand a they have be put they have not even shift their foot in the dust and off i march still feel that terrific smile like an east wind up my back. i never halt them till sunset and he turn about and look at pook s hill below him then i halt yonder. he point to the break bracken cover shoulder of the forge hill behind old hobden s cottage. 
there. why that s only the old forge where they make iron once say dan. 
very good stuff it be too say parnesius calmly. we mend three shoulder strap here and have a spear head rivet. the forge be rent from the government by a one eye smith from carthage. i remember we call him cyclops. he sell me a beaver skin rug for my sister s room. 
but it couldn t have be here dan insist. 
but it be. from the altar of victory at anderida to the first forge in the forest here be twelve mile seven hundred pace. it be all in the road book. a man doesn t forget his first march. i think i could tell you every station between this and he lean forward but his eye be catch by the set sun. 
it have come down to the top of cherry clack hill and the light pour in between the tree trunk so that you could see red and gold and black deep into the heart of far wood. and parnesius in his armour shine a though he have be afire. 
wait. he say lift a hand and the sunlight jinked on his glass bracelet. wait. i pray to mithra. 
he rise and stretch his arm westward with deep splendid sound word. 
then puck begin to sing too in a voice like bell toll and a he sing he slip from volaterrae to the grind and beckon the child to follow. they obey. it seem a though the voice be push them along. and through the goldy brown light on the beech leaf they walk while puck between them chant something like this. 
cur mundus militat sub vana gloria cujus prosperitas est transitoria. tam cito labitur ejus potentia quam vas figuli quæ sunt fragilia. 
they find themselves at the little lock gate of the wood. 
quo cæsar abiit celsus imperio. vel dive splendidus totus in prandio. dic ubi tullius. 
still sing he take dan s hand and wheel him round to face una a she come out of the gate. it shut behind her at the same time a puck throw the memory magicking oak ash and thorn leaf over their head. 
well you be jolly late say una. couldn t you get away before. 
i do say dan. i get away in lot of time but but i didn t know it be so late. where ve you be. 
in volaterrae wait for you. 
sorry say dan. it be all that beastly latin. 
a british roman song. a. d. 
my father s father saw it not and i belike shall never come to look on that so holy spot the very rome. 
crown by all time all art all might the equal work of god and man city beneath whose old height the race begin. 
soon to send forth again a brood unshakeable we pray that cling to rome s thrice hammer hardihood in arduous thing. 
strong heart with triple armour bind beat strongly for thy life blood run age after age the empire round in u thy son. 
who distant from the seven hill love and serve much require thee thee to guard gainst home bear ill the imperial fire. 
on the great wall. 
when i leave rome for lalage s sake by the legion road to rimini she vow her heart be mine to take with me and my shield to rimini. till the eagle fly from rimini. and i ve tramp britain and i ve tramp gaul and the pontic shore where the snow flake fall a white a the neck of lalage. a cold a the heart of lalage. and i ve lose britain and i ve lose gaul. 
the voice seem very cheerful about it. 
and i ve lose rome and bad of all i ve lose lalage. 
they be stand by the gate to far wood when they hear this song. without a word they hurry to their private gap and wriggle through the hedge almost atop of a jay that be feed from puck s hand. 
gently. say puck. what be you look for. 
parnesius of course dan answer. we ve only just remember yesterday. it isn t fair. 
puck chuckle a he rise. i m sorry but child who spend the afternoon with me and a roman centurion need a little settle dose of magic before they go to tea with their govern. ohé parnesius. he call. 
here faun. come the answer from volaterrae. they could see the shimmer of bronze armour in the beech crotch and the friendly flash of the great shield uplift. 
i have drive out the briton. parnesius laugh like a boy. i occupy their high fort. but rome be merciful. you may come up. and up they three all scramble. 
what be the song you be sing just now. say una a soon a she have settle herself. 
that. oh rimini. it s one of the tune that be always be bear somewhere in the empire. they run like a pestilence for six month or a year till another one plea the legion and then they march to that. 
tell them about the march parnesius. few people nowadays walk from end to end of this country say puck. 
the great their loss. i know nothing good than the long march when your foot be harden. you begin after the mist have rise and you end perhaps an hour after sundown. 
and what do you have to eat. dan ask promptly. 
fat bacon bean and bread and whatever wine happen to be in the rest house. but soldier be bear grumbler. their very first day out my men complain of our water grind british corn. they say it wasn t so fill a the rough stuff that be grind in the roman ox mill. however they have to fetch and eat it. 
fetch it. where from. say una. 
from that newly invent water mill below the forge. 
that s forge mill our mill. una look at puck. 
yes. yours puck put in. how old do you think it be. 
i don t know. didn t sir richard dalyngridge talk about it. 
he do and it be old in his day puck answer. hundred of year old. 
it be new in mine say parnesius. my men look at the flour in their helmet a though it have be a nest of adder. they do it to try my patience. but i address them and we become friend. to tell the truth they teach me the roman step. you see i d only serve with quick march auxiliary. a legion s pace be altogether different. it be a long slow stride that never vary from sunrise to sunset. rome s race rome s pace a the proverb say. twenty four mile in eight hour neither more nor le. head and spear up shield on your back cuirass collar open one hand s breadth and that s how you take the eagle through britain. 
and do you meet any adventure. say dan. 
there be no adventure south the wall say parnesius. the bad thing that happen me be have to appear before a magistrate up north where a wander philosopher have jeer at the eagle. i be able to show that the old man have deliberately block our road. and the magistrate tell him out of his own book i believe that whatever his god might be he should pay proper respect to cæsar. 
what do you do. say dan. 
go on. why should i care for such thing my business be to reach my station. it take me twenty day. 
of course the farther north you go the empty be the road. at last you fetch clear of the forest and climb bare hill where wolf howl in the ruin of our city that have be. no more pretty girl. no more jolly magistrate who know your father when he be young and invite you to stay with them. no news at the temple and way station except bad news of wild beast. there s where you meet hunter and trapper for the circus prod along chain bear and muzzle wolf. your pony shy at them and your men laugh. 
the house change from garden villa to shut fort with watch tower of grey stone and great stone wall sheepfold guard by arm briton of the north shore. in the naked hill beyond the naked house where the shadow of the cloud play like cavalry charge you see puff of black smoke from the mine. the hard road go on and on and the wind sing through your helmet plume past altar to legion and general forget and break statue of god and hero and thousand of graf where the mountain fox and hare peep at you. red hot in summer freeze in winter be that big purple heather country of break stone. 
just when you think you be at the world s end you see a smoke from east to west a far a the eye can turn and then under it also a far a the eye can stretch house and temple shop and theatre barrack and granary trickle along like dice behind always behind one long low rise and fall and hide and show line of tower. and that be the wall. 
ah. say the child take breath. 
you may well say parnesius. old men who have follow the eagle since boyhood say nothing in the empire be more wonderful than first sight of the wall. 
be it just a wall. like the one round the kitchen garden. say dan. 
no no. it be the wall. along the top be tower with guard house small tower between. even on the narrow part of it three men with shield can walk abreast from guard house to guard house. a little curtain wall no high than a man s neck run along the top of the thick wall so that from a distance you see the helmet of the sentry slide back and forth like bead. thirty foot high be the wall and on the picts side the north be a ditch strew with blade of old sword and spear head set in wood and tyre of wheel join by chain. the little people come there to steal iron for their arrow head. 
but the wall itself be not more wonderful than the town behind it. long ago there be great rampart and ditch on the south side and no one be allow to build there. now the rampart be partly pull down and build over from end to end of the wall. make a thin town eighty mile long. think of it. one roar riot cock fight wolf bait horse race town from ituna on the west to segedunum on the cold eastern beach. on one side heather wood and ruin where picts hide and on the other a vast town long like a snake and wicked like a snake. yes a snake bask beside a warm wall. 
my cohort i be tell lay at hunno where the great north road run through the wall into the province of valentia. parnesius laugh scornfully. the province of valentia. we follow the road therefore into hunno town and stand astonish. the place be a fair a fair of people from every corner of the empire. some be race horse. some sit in wine shop. some watch dog bait bear and many gather in a ditch to see cock fight. a boy not much old than myself but i could see he be an officer rein up before me and ask what i want. 
my station i say and show him my shield. parnesius hold up his broad shield with it three x s like letter on a beer cask. 
lucky omen. say he. your cohort s the next tower to u but they re all at the cock fight. this be a happy place. come and wet the eagle. he mean to offer me a drink. 
when i ve hand over my men i say. i felt angry and ashamed. 
oh you ll soon outgrow that sort of nonsense he answer. but don t let me interfere with your hope. go on to the statue of rom dea. you can t miss it. the main road into valentia. and he laugh and ride off. i could see the statue not a quarter of a mile away and there i go. at some time or other the great north road run under it into valentia. but the far end have be block up because of the picts and on the plaster a man have scratch finish. it be like march into a cave. we ground spear together my little thirty and it echo in the barrel of the arch but none come. there be a door at one side paint with our number. we prowl in and i find a cook asleep and order him to give u food. then i climb to the top of the wall and look out over the pict country and i think say parnesius. the bricked up arch with finish. on the plaster be what shake me for i be not much more than a boy. 
what a shame. say una. but do you feel happy after you d have a good dan stop her with a nudge. 
happy. say parnesius. when the men of the cohort i be to command come back unhelmeted from the cock fight their bird under their arm and ask me who i be. no i be not happy. but i make my new cohort unhappy too. i write my mother i be happy but oh my friend he stretch arm over bare knee i would not wish my bad enemy to suffer a i suffer through my first month on the wall. remember this. among the officer be scarcely one except myself. and i think i have lose the favour of maximus my general. scarcely one who have not do something of wrong or folly. either he have kill a man or take money or insult the magistrate or blaspheme the god and so have be send to the wall a a hide place from shame or fear. and the men be a the officer. remember also that the wall be man by every breed and race in the empire. no two tower speak the same tongue or worship the same god. in one thing only we be all equal. no matter what arm we have use before we come to the wall on the wall we be all archer like the scythian. the pict cannot run away from the arrow or crawl under it. he be a bowman himself. he know. 
i suppose you be fight picts all the time say dan. 
picts seldom fight. i never saw a fight pict for half a year. the tame picts tell u they have all go north. 
what be a tame pict. say dan. 
a pict there be many such who speak a few word of our tongue and slip across the wall to sell pony and wolf hound. without a horse and a dog and a friend man would perish. the god give me all three and there be no gift like friendship. remember this parnesius turn to dan when you become a young man. for your fate will turn on the first true friend you make. 
he mean say puck grin that if you try to make yourself a decent chap when you re young you ll make rather decent friend when you grow up. if you re a beast you ll have beastly friend. listen to the pious parnesius on friendship. 
i be not pious parnesius answer but i know what goodness mean. and my friend though he be without hope be ten thousand time good than i. stop laugh faun. 
oh youth eternal and all believe cry puck a he rock on the branch above. tell them about your pertinax. 
he be that friend the god send me the boy who speak to me when i first come. little old than myself command the augusta victoria cohort on the tower next to u and the numidian. in virtue he be far my superior. 
then why be he on the wall. una ask quickly. they d all do something bad. you say so yourself. 
he be the nephew his father have die of a great rich man in gaul who be not always kind to his mother. when pertinax grow up he discover this and so his uncle ship him off by trickery and force to the wall. we come to know each other at a ceremony in our temple in the dark. it be the bull kill parnesius explain to puck. 
i see say puck and turn to the child. that s something you wouldn t quite understand. parnesius mean he meet pertinax in church. 
yes in the cave we first meet and we be both raise to the degree of gryphon together. parnesius lift his hand towards his neck for an instant. he have be on the wall two year and know the picts well. he teach me first how to take heather. 
what s that. say dan. 
go out hunt in the pict country with a tame pict. you be quite safe so long a you be his guest and wear a sprig of heather where it can be see. if you go alone you would surely be kill if you be not smother first in the bog. only the picts know their way about those black and hide bog. old allo the one eye wither little pict from whom we buy our pony be our special friend. at first we go only to escape from the terrible town and to talk together about our home. then he show u how to hunt wolf and those great red deer with horn like jewish candlestick. the roman bear officer rather look down on u for do this but we prefer the heather to their amusement. believe me parnesius turn again to dan a boy be safe from all thing that really harm when he be astride a pony or after a deer. do you remember o faun he turn to puck the little altar i build to the sylvan pan by the pine forest beyond the brook. 
which. the stone one with the line from xenophon. say puck in quite a new voice. 
no. what do i know of xenophon. that be pertinax after he have shoot his first mountain hare with an arrow by chance. mine i make of round pebble in memory of my first bear. it take me one happy day to build. parnesius face the child quickly. 
and that be how we live on the wall for two year a little scuffle with the picts and a great deal of hunt with old allo in the pict country. he call u his child sometimes and we be fond of him and his barbarian though we never let them paint u pict fashion. the mark endure till you die. 
how s it do. say dan. anything like tattoo. 
they prick the skin till the blood run and rub in colour juice. allo be paint blue green and red from his forehead to his ankle. he say it be part of his religion. he tell u about his religion. pertinax be always interest in such thing. and a we come to know him well he tell u what be happen in britain behind the wall. many thing take place behind u in those day. and by the light of the sun say parnesius earnestly there be not much that those little people do not know. he tell me when maximus cross over to gaul after he have make himself emperor of britain and what troop and emigrant he have take with him. we do not get the news on the wall till fifteen day late. he tell me what troop maximus be take out of britain every month to help him to conquer gaul. and i always find the number be a he say. wonderful. and i tell another strange thing. 
he join his hand across his knee and lean his head on the curve of the shield behind him. 
late in the summer when the first frost begin and the picts kill their bee we three ride out after wolf with some new hound. rutilianus our general have give u ten day leave and we have push beyond the second wall beyond the province of valentia into the high hill where there be not even any of old rome s ruin. we kill a she wolf before noon and while allo be skin her he look up and say to me when you be captain of the wall my child you win t be able to do this any more. 
i might a well have be make prefect of low gaul so i laugh and say wait till i be captain. 
no don t wait say allo. take my advice and go home both of you. 
we have no home say pertinax. you know that a well a we do. we re finish men thumb down against both of u. only men without hope would risk their neck on your pony. the old man laugh one of those short pict laugh like a fox bark on a frosty night. i m fond of you two he say. besides i ve teach you what little you know about hunt. take my advice and go home. 
we can t i say. i m out of favour with my general for one thing. and for another pertinax ha an uncle. 
i don t know about his uncle say allo but the trouble with you parnesius be that your general think well of you. 
rom dea. say pertinax sit up. what can you guess what maximus think you old horse coper. 
just then. you know how near the brute creep when one be eat. a great dog wolf jump out behind u and away our rest hound tear after him with u at their tail. he run u far out of any country we d ever hear of straight a an arrow till sunset towards the sunset. we come at last to long cape stretch into wind water and on a grey beach below u we saw ship draw up. forty seven we count not roman galley but the raven wing ship from the north where rome doe not rule. men move in the ship and the sun flash on their helmet wing helmet of the red haired men from the north where rome doe not rule. we watch and we count and we wonder for though we have hear rumour concern these wing hat a the picts call them never before have we look upon them. 
come away. come away. say allo. my heather win t protect you here. we shall all be kill. his leg tremble like his voice. back we go back across the heather under the moon till it be nearly morning and our poor beast stumble on some ruin. 
when we wake very stiff and cold allo be mix the meal and water. one doe not light fire in the pict country except near a village. the little men be always signal to each other with smoke and a strange smoke bring them out buzz like bee. they can sting too. 
what we saw last night be a trade station say allo. nothing but a trade station. 
i do not like lie on an empty stomach say pertinax. i suppose. he have eye like an eagle s. i suppose that be a trade station also. he point to a smoke far off on a hill top ascend in what we call the picts call. puff double puff. double puff puff. they make it by raise and drop a wet hide on a fire. 
no say allo push the platter back into the bag. that be for you and me. your fate be fix. come. 
we come. when one take heather one must obey one s pict but that wretched smoke be twenty mile distant well over on the east coast and the day be a hot a a bath. 
whatever happen say allo while our pony grunt along i want you to remember me. 
i shall not forget say pertinax. you have cheat me out of my breakfast. 
what be a handful of crush oat to a roman. he say. then he laugh his laugh that be not a laugh. 
what would you do if you be a handful of oat be crush between the upper and low stone of a mill. 
i m pertinax not a riddle guesser say pertinax. 
you re a fool say allo. your god and my god be threaten by strange god and all you can do be to laugh. 
threaten men live long i say. 
i pray the god that may be true he say. but i ask you again not to forget me. 
we climb the last hot hill and look out on the eastern sea three or four mile off. there be a small sail galley of the north gaul pattern at anchor her land plank down and her sail half up. and below u alone in a hollow hold his pony sit maximus emperor of britain. he be dress like a hunter and he lean on his little stick. but i know that back a far a i could see it and i tell pertinax. 
you re mad than allo. he say. it must be the sun. 
maximus never stir till we stand before him. then he look me up and down and say. hungry again. it seem to be my destiny to fee you whenever we meet. i have food here. allo shall cook it. 
no say allo. a prince in his own land doe not wait on wander emperor. i fee my two child without ask your leave. he begin to blow up the ash. 
i be wrong say pertinax. we be all mad. speak up o madman call emperor. 
maximus smile his terrible tight lipped smile but two year on the wall do not make a man afraid of mere look. so i be not afraid. 
i mean you parnesius to live and die a centurion of the wall say maximus. but it seem from these he fumble in his breast you can think a well a draw. he pull out a roll of letter i have write to my people full of drawing of picts and bear and men i have meet on the wall. mother and my sister always like my picture. 
he hand me one that i have call maximus s soldier. it show a row of fat wine skin and our old doctor of the hunno hospital snuff at them. each time that maximus have take troop out of britain to help him to conquer gaul he use to send the garrison more wine to keep them quiet i suppose. on the wall we always call a wine skin a maximus. oh yes. and i have draw them in imperial helmet. 
not long since he go on men s name be send up to cæsar for small joke than this. 
true cæsar say pertinax. but you forget that be before i your friend s friend become such a good spear thrower. 
he do not actually point his hunt spear at maximus but balance it on his palm so. 
i be speak of time past say maximus never flutter an eyelid. nowadays one be only too please to find boy who can think for themselves and their friend. he nod at pertinax. your father lend me the letter parnesius so you run no risk from me. 
none whatever say pertinax and rub the spear point on his sleeve. 
i have be force to reduce the garrison in britain because i need troop in gaul. now i come to take troop from the wall itself say he. 
i wish you joy of u say pertinax. we re the last sweeping of the empire the men without hope. myself i d sooner trust condemn criminal. 
you think so. he say quite seriously. but it will only be till i win gaul. one must always risk one s life or one s soul or one s peace or some little thing. 
allo pass round the fire with the sizzle deer s meat. he serve u two first. 
ah. say maximus wait his turn. i perceive you be in your own country. well you deserve it. they tell me you have quite a follow among the picts parnesius. 
i have hunt with them i say. maybe i have a few friend among the heather. 
he be the only armour man of you all who understand u say allo and he begin a long speech about our virtue and how we have save one of his grandchild from a wolf the year before. 
have you. say una. 
yes. but that be neither here nor there. the little green man orate like a like cicero. he make u out to be magnificent fellow. maximus never take his eye off our face. 
enough he say. i have hear allo on you. i wish to hear you on the picts. 
i tell him a much a i know and pertinax help me out. there be never harm in a pict if you but take the trouble to find out what he want. their real grievance against u come from our burn their heather. the whole garrison of the wall move out twice a year and solemnly burn the heather for ten mile north. rutilianus our general call it clear the country. the picts of course scamper away and all we do be to destroy their bee bloom in the summer and ruin their sheep food in the spring. 
true quite true say allo. how can we make our holy heather wine if you burn our bee pasture. 
we talk long maximus ask keen question that show he know much and have think more about the picts. he say presently to me. if i give you the old province of valentia to govern could you keep the picts content till i win gaul. stand away so that you do not see allo s face. and speak your own thought. 
no i say. you cannot remake that province. the picts have be free too long. 
leave them their village council and let them furnish their own soldier he say. you i be sure would hold the rein very lightly. 
even then no i say. at least not now. they have be too oppress by u to trust anything with a roman name for year and year. 
i hear old allo behind me mutter. good child. 
then what do you recommend say maximus to keep the north quiet till i win gaul. 
leave the picts alone i say. stop the heather burn at once and they be improvident little animal send them a shipload or two of corn now and then. 
their own men must distribute it not some cheat greek accountant say pertinax. 
yes and allow them to come to our hospital when they be sick i say. 
surely they would die first say maximus. 
not if parnesius bring them in say allo. i could show you twenty wolf bite bear claw picts within twenty mile of here. but parnesius must stay with them in hospital else they would go mad with fear. 
i see say maximus. like everything else in the world it be one man s work. you i think be that one man. 
pertinax and i be one i say. 
a you please so long a you work. now allo you know that i mean your people no harm. leave u to talk together say maximus. 
no need. say allo. i be the corn between the upper and low millstone. i must know what the low millstone mean to do. these boy have speak the truth a far a they know it. i a prince will tell you the rest. i be trouble about the men of the north. he squat like a hare in the heather and look over his shoulder. 
i also say maximus or i should not be here. 
listen say allo. long and long ago the wing hat he mean the northman come to our beach and say rome fall. push her down. we fight you. you send men. we be beat. after that we say to the wing hat you be liar. make our men alive that rome kill and we will believe you. they go away ashamed. now they come back bold and they tell the old tale which we begin to believe that rome fall. 
give me three year peace on the wall cry maximus and i will show you and all the raven how they lie. 
ah i wish it too. i wish to save what be leave of the corn from the millstone. but you shoot u picts when we come to borrow a little iron from the iron ditch. you burn our heather which be all our crop. you trouble u with your great catapult. then you hide behind the wall and scorch u with greek fire. how can i keep my young men from listen to the wing hat in winter especially when we be hungry. my young men will say rome can neither fight nor rule. she be take her men out of britain. the wing hat will help u to push down the wall. let u show them the secret road across the bog. do i want that. no. he spat like an adder. i would keep the secret of my people though i be burn alive. my two child here have speak truth. leave u picts alone. comfort u and cherish u and fee u from far off with the hand behind the back. parnesius understand u. let him have rule on the wall and i will hold my young men quiet for he tick it off on his finger one year easily. the next year not so easily. the third year perhaps. see i give you three year. if then you do not show u that rome be strong in men and terrible in arm the wing hat i tell you will sweep down the wall from either sea till they meet in the middle and you will go. i shall not grieve over that but well i know tribe never help tribe except for one price. we picts will go too. the wing hat will grind u to this. he toss a handful of dust in the air. 
oh rom dea. say maximus half aloud. it be always one man s work always and everywhere. 
and one man s life say allo. you be emperor but not a god. you may die. 
i have think of that too say he. very good. if this wind hold i shall be at the east end of the wall by morning. to morrow then i shall see you two when i inspect and i will make you captain of the wall for this work. 
one instant cæsar say pertinax. all men have their price. i be not buy yet. 
do you also begin to bargain so early. say maximus. well. 
give me justice against my uncle icenus the duumvir of divio in gaul he say. 
only a life. i think it would be money or an office. certainly you shall have him. write his name on these tablet on the red side. the other be for the live. and maximus hold out his tablet. 
he be of no use to me dead say pertinax. my mother be a widow. i be far off. i be not sure he pay her all her dowry. 
no matter. my arm be reasonably long. we will look through your uncle s account in due time. now farewell till to morrow o captain of the wall. 
we saw him grow small across the heather a he walk to the galley. there be picts score each side of him hide behind stone. he never look leave or right. he sail away southerly full spread before the even breeze and when we have watch him out to sea we be silent. we understand that earth breed few men like to this man. 
presently allo bring the pony and hold them for u to mount a thing he have never do before. 
wait awhile say pertinax and he make a little altar of cut turf and strew heather bloom atop and lay upon it a letter from a girl in gaul. 
what do you do o my friend. i say. 
i sacrifice to my dead youth he answer and when the flame have consume the letter he grind them out with his heel. then we ride back to that wall of which we be to be captain. 
parnesius stop. the child sit still not even ask if that be all the tale. puck beckon and point the way out of the wood. sorry he whisper but you must go now. 
we haven t make him angry have we. say una. he look so far off and and thinky. 
bless your heart no. wait till tomorrow. it win t be long. remember you ve be play lay of ancient rome. 
and a soon a they have scramble through their gap where oak ash and thorn grow that be all they remember. 
a song to mithra. 
mithra god of the morning our trumpet waken the wall. rome be above the nation but thou art over all. now a the name be answer and the guard be march away mithra also a soldier give u strength for the day. 
mithra god of the noontide the heather swim in the heat our helmet scorch our forehead our sandal burn our foot. now in the ungirt hour. now ere we blink and drowse mithra also a soldier keep u true to our vow. 
mithra god of the sunset low on the western main thou descend immortal immortal to rise again. now when the watch be end now when the wine be draw mithra also a soldier keep u pure till the dawn. 
mithra god of the midnight here where the great bull dy look on thy child in darkness. oh take our sacrifice. many road thou hast fashion. all of them lead to the light. mithra also a soldier teach u to die aright. 
the wing hat. 
the next day happen to be what they call a wild afternoon. father and mother go out to pay call. miss blake go for a ride on her bicycle and they be leave all alone till eight o clock. 
when they have see their dear parent and their dear preceptress politely off the premise they get a cabbage leaf full of raspberry from the gardener and a wild tea from ellen. they eat the raspberry to prevent their squash and they mean to divide the cabbage leaf with three cow down at the theatre but they come across a dead hedgehog which they simply have to bury and the leaf be too useful to waste. 
then they go on to the forge and find old hobden the hedger at home with his son the bee boy who be not quite right in his head but who can pick up swarm of bee in his naked hand. and the bee boy tell them the rhyme about the slow worm. 
if i have eye a i could see no mortal man would trouble me. 
they all have tea together by the hive and hobden say the loaf cake which ellen have give them be almost a good a what his wife use to make and he show them how to set a wire at the right height for hare. they know about rabbit already. 
then they climb up long ditch into the low end of far wood. this be sad and dark than the volaterrae end because of an old marlpit full of black water where weepy hairy moss hang round the stump of the willow and alder. but the bird come to perch on the dead branch and hobden say that the bitter willow water be a sort of medicine for sick animal. 
they sit down on a fell oak trunk in the shadow of the beech undergrowth and be loop the wire hobden have give them when they saw parnesius. 
how quietly you come. say una move up to make room. where s puck. 
the faun and i have dispute whether it be good that i should tell you all my tale or leave it untold he reply. 
i only say that if he tell it a it happen you wouldn t understand it say puck jump up like a squirrel from behind the log. 
i don t understand all of it say una but i like hear about the little picts. 
what i can t understand say dan be how maximus know all about the picts when he be over in gaul. 
he who make himself emperor anywhere must know everything everywhere say parnesius. we have this much from maximus s mouth after the game. 
game. what game. say dan. 
parnesius stretch his arm out stiffly thumb point to the grind. gladiator. that sort of game he say. there be two day game in his honour when he land all unexpected at segedunum on the east end of the wall. yes the day after we have meet him we hold two day game. but i think the great risk be run not by the poor wretch on the sand but by maximus. in the old day the legion keep silence before their emperor. so do not we. you could hear the solid roar run west along the wall a his chair be carry rock through the crowd. the garrison beat round him clamour clown ask for pay for change of quarter for anything that come into their wild head. that chair be like a little boat among wave dip and fall but always rise again after one have shut the eye. parnesius shiver. 
be they angry with him. say dan. 
no more angry than wolf in a cage when their trainer walk among them. if he have turn his back an instant or for an instant have cease to hold their eye there would have be another emperor make on the wall that hour. be it not so faun. 
so it be. so it always will be say puck. 
late in the even his messenger come for u and we follow to the temple of victory where he lodge with rutilianus the general of the wall. i have hardly see the general before but he always give me leave when i wish to take heather. he be a great glutton and keep five asian cook and he come of a family that believe in oracle. we could smell his good dinner when we enter but the table be empty. he lay snort on a couch. maximus sit apart among long roll of account. then the door be shut. 
these be your men say maximus to the general who prop his eye corner open with his gouty finger and star at u like a fish. 
i shall know them again cæsar say rutilianus. 
very good say maximus. now hear. you be not to move man or shield on the wall except a these boy shall tell you. you will do nothing except eat without their permission. they be the head and arm. you be the belly. 
a cæsar plea the old man grunt. if my pay and profit be not cut you may make my ancestor oracle my master. rome ha be. rome ha be. then he turn on his side to sleep. 
he ha it say maximus. we will get to what i need. 
he unroll full copy of the number of men and supply on the wall down to the sick that very day in hunno hospital. oh but i groan when his pen mark off detachment after detachment of our best of our least worthless men. he take two tower of our scythian two of our north british auxiliary two numidian cohort the dacians all and half the belgian. it be like an eagle peck a carcass. 
and now how many catapult have you. he turn up a new list but pertinax lay his open hand there. 
no cæsar say he. do not tempt the god too far. take men or engine but not both. else we refuse. 
engine. say una. 
the catapult of the wall huge thing forty foot high to the head fire net of raw stone or forge bolt. nothing can stand against them. he leave u our catapult at last but he take a cæsar s half of our men without pity. we be a shell when he roll up the list. 
hail cæsar. we about to die salute you. say pertinax laugh. if any enemy even lean against the wall now it will tumble. 
give me the three year allo speak of he answer and you shall have twenty thousand men of your own choose up here. but now it be a gamble a game play against the god and the stake be britain gaul and perhaps rome. you play on my side. 
we will play cæsar i say for i have never meet a man like this man. 
good. tomorrow say he i proclaim you captain of the wall before the troop. 
so we go into the moonlight where they be clean the grind after the game. we saw great rom dea atop of the wall the frost on her helmet and her spear point towards the north star. we saw the twinkle of night fire all along the guard tower and the line of the black catapult grow small and small in the distance. all these thing we know till we be weary. but that night they seem very strange to u because the next day we know we be to be their master. 
the men take the news well. but when maximus go away with half our strength and we have to spread ourselves into the empty tower and the townspeople complain that trade would be ruin and the autumn gale blow it be dark day for u two. here pertinax be more than my right hand. be bear and breed among the great country house in gaul he know the proper word to address to all from roman bear centurion to those dog of the third the libyan. and he speak to each a though that man be a high mind a himself. now i saw so strongly what thing be need to be do that i forget thing be only accomplish by mean of men. that be a mistake. 
i fear nothing from the picts at least for that year but allo warn me that the wing hat would soon come in from the sea at each end of the wall to prove to the picts how weak we be. so i make ready in haste and none too soon. i shift our best men to the end of the wall and set up screen catapult by the beach. the wing hat would drive in before the snow squall ten or twenty boat at a time on segedunum or ituna accord a the wind blow. 
now a ship come in to land men must furl her sail. if you wait till you see her men gather up the sail s foot your catapult can jerk a net of loose stone. bolt only cut through the cloth. into the bag of it. then she turn over and the sea make everything clean again. a few men may come ashore but very few. it be not hard work except the wait on the beach in blow sand and snow. and that be how we deal with the wing hat that winter. 
early in the spring when the east wind blow like skin knife they gather again off segedunum with many ship. allo tell me they would never rest till they have take a tower in open fight. certainly they fight in the open. we deal with them thoroughly through a long day. and when all be finish one man dive clear of the wreckage of his ship and swim towards shore. i wait and a wave tumble him at my foot. 
a i stoop i saw he wear such a medal a i wear. parnesius raise his hand to his neck. therefore when he could speak i address him a certain question which can only be answer in a certain manner. he answer with the necessary word the word that belong to the degree of gryphon in the science of mithra my god. i put my shield over him till he could stand up. you see i be not short but he be a head tall than i. he say. what now. i say. at your pleasure my brother to stay or go. 
he look out across the surf. there remain one ship unhurt beyond range of our catapult. i check the catapult and he wave her in. she come a a hound come to a master. when she be yet a hundred pace from the beach he fling back his hair and swim out. they haul him in and go away. i know that those who worship mithra be many and of all race so i do not think much more upon the matter. 
a month late i saw allo with his horse by the temple of pan o faun and he give me a great necklace of gold stud with coral. 
at first i think it be a bribe from some tradesman in the town mean for old rutilianus. nay say allo. this be a gift from amal that wing hat whom you save on the beach. he say you be a man. 
he be a man too. tell him i can wear his gift i answer. 
oh amal be a young fool. but speak a sensible men your emperor be do such great thing in gaul that the wing hat be anxious to be his friend or good still the friend of his servant. they think you and pertinax could lead them to victory. allo look at me like a one eye raven. 
allo i say you be the corn between the two millstone. be content if they grind evenly and don t thrust your hand between them. 
i. say allo. i hate rome and the wing hat equally. but if the wing hat think that some day you and pertinax might join them against maximus they would leave you in peace while you consider. time be what we need you and i and maximus. let me carry a pleasant message back to the wing hat something for them to make a council over. we barbarian be all alike. we sit up half the night to discus anything a roman say. eh. 
we have no men. we must fight with word say pertinax. leave it to allo and me. 
so allo carry word back to the wing hat that we would not fight them if they do not fight u. and they. i think they be a little tire of lose men in the sea. agree to a sort of truce. i believe allo who be a horse dealer love lie also tell them we might some day rise against maximus a maximus have rise against rome. 
indeed they permit the corn ship which i send to the picts to pas north that season without harm. therefore the picts be well feed that winter and since they be in some sort my child i be glad of it. we have only two thousand men on the wall and i write many time to maximus and beg pray him to send me only one cohort of my old north british troop. he could not spare them. he need them to win more victory in gaul. 
then come news that he have defeat and slay the emperor gratian and think he must now be secure i write again for men. he answer. you will learn that i have at last settle account with the pup gratian. there be no need that he should have die but he become confuse and lose his head which be a bad thing to befall any emperor. tell your father i be content to drive two mule only. for unless my old general s son think himself destine to destroy me i shall rest emperor of gaul and britain and then you my two child will presently get all the men you need. just now i can spare none. 
what do he mean by his general s son. say dan. 
he mean theodosius emperor of rome who be the son of theodosius the general under whom maximus have fight in the old pict war. the two men never love each other and when gratian make the young theodosius emperor of the east. at least so i ve hear. maximus carry on the war to the second generation. it be his fate and it be his fall. but theodosius the emperor be a good man. a i know. parnesius be silent for a moment and then continue. 
i write back to maximus that though we have peace on the wall i should be happy with a few more men and some new catapult. he answer. you must live a little long under the shadow of my victory till i can see what young theodosius intend. he may welcome me a a brother emperor or he may be prepare an army. in either case i cannot spare men just now. 
but he be always say that cry una. 
it be true. he do not make excuse. but thank a he say to the news of his victory we have no trouble on the wall for a long long time. the picts grow fat a their own sheep among the heather and a many of my men a live be well exercise in their weapon. yes the wall look strong. for myself i know how weak we be. i know that if even a false rumour of any defeat to maximus break loose among the wing hat they might come down in earnest and then the wall must go. for the picts i never care but in those year i learn something of the strength of the wing hat. they increase their strength every day but i could not increase my men. maximus have empty britain behind u and i felt myself to be a man with a rotten stick stand before a break fence to turn bull. 
thus my friend we live on the wall wait wait wait for the men that maximus never send. 
presently he write that he be prepare an army against theodosius. he write and pertinax read it over my shoulder in our quarter. _tell your father that my destiny order me to drive three mule or be tear in piece by them. i hope within a year to finish with theodosius son of theodosius once and for all. then you shall have britain to rule and pertinax if he choose gaul. to day i wish strongly you be with me to beat my auxiliary into shape. do not i pray you believe any rumour of my sickness. i have a little evil in my old body which i shall cure by rid swiftly into rome. 
say pertinax. it be finish with maximus. he write a a man without hope. i a man without hope can see this. what doe he add at the bottom of the roll. tell pertinax i have meet his late uncle the duumvir of divio and that he account to me quite truthfully for all his mother s monies. i have send her with a fit escort for she be the mother of a hero to nicaea where the climate be warm. 
that be proof say pertinax. nicaea be not far by sea from rome. a woman there could take ship and fly to rome in time of war. yes maximus foresee his death and be fulfil his promise one by one. but i be glad my uncle meet him. 
you think blackly to day. i ask. 
i think truth. the god weary of the play we have play against them. theodosius will destroy maximus. it be finish. 
will you write him that. i say. 
see what i shall write he answer and he take pen and write a letter cheerful a the light of day tender a a woman s and full of jest. even i read over his shoulder take comfort from it till i saw his face. 
and now he say seal it we be two dead men my brother. let u go to the temple. 
we pray awhile to mithra where we have many time pray before. after that we live day by day among evil rumour till winter come again. 
it happen one morning that we ride to the east shore and find on the beach a fair haired man half freeze bind to some break plank. turn him over we saw by his belt buckle that he be a goth of an eastern legion. suddenly he open his eye and cry loudly he be dead. the letter be with me but the wing hat sink the ship. so say he die between our hand. 
we ask not who be dead. we know. we race before the drive snow to hunno think perhaps allo might be there. we find him already at our stable and he saw by our face what we have hear. 
it be in a tent by the sea he stammer. he be behead by theodosius. he send a letter to you write while he wait to be slay. the wing hat meet the ship and take it. the news be run through the heather like fire. blame me not. i cannot hold back my young men any more. 
i would we could say a much for our men say pertinax laugh. but god be praise they cannot run away. 
what do you do. say allo. i bring an order a message from the wing hat that you join them with your men and march south to plunder britain. 
it grief me say pertinax but we be station here to stop that thing. 
if i carry back such an answer they will kill me say allo. i always promise the wing hat that you would rise when maximus fell. i i do not think he could fall. 
ala. my poor barbarian say pertinax still laugh. well you have sell u too many good pony to be throw back to your friend. we will make you a prisoner although you be an ambassador. 
yes that will be best say allo hold out a halter. we bind him lightly for he be an old man. 
presently the wing hat may come to look for you and that will give u more time. see how the habit of play for time stick to a man. say pertinax a he tie the rope. 
no i say. time may help. if maximus write u a letter while he be a prisoner theodosius must have send the ship that bring it. if he can send ship he can send men. 
how will that profit u. say pertinax. we serve maximus not theodosius. even if by some miracle of the god theodosius down south send and save the wall we could not expect more than the death maximus die. 
it concern u to defend the wall no matter what emperor dy or make die i say. 
that be worthy of your brother the philosopher say pertinax. myself i be without hope so i do not say solemn and stupid thing. rouse the wall. 
we arm the wall from end to end. we tell the officer that there be a rumour of maximus s death which might bring down the wing hat but we be sure even if it be true that theodosius for the sake of britain would send u help. therefore we must stand fast. my friend it be above all thing strange to see how men bear ill news. often the strong till then become the weak while the weak a it be reach up and steal strength from the god. so it be with u. yet my pertinax by his jest and his courtesy and his labour have put heart and train into our poor number during the past year more than i should have think possible. even our libyan cohort the third stand up in their pad cuirass and do not whimper. 
in three day come seven chief and elder of the wing hat. among them be that tall young man amal whom i have meet on the beach and he smile when he saw my necklace. we make them welcome for they be ambassador. we show them allo alive but bind. they think we have kill him and i saw it would not have vex them if we have. allo saw it too and it vex him. then in our quarter at hunno we come to council. 
they say that rome be fall and that we must join them. they offer me all south britain to govern after they have take a tribute out of it. 
i answer patience. this wall be not weigh off like plunder. give me proof that my general be dead. 
nay say one elder prove to u that he life. and another say cunningly what will you give u if we read you his last word. 
we be not merchant to bargain cry amal. moreover i owe this man my life. he shall have his proof. he throw across to me a letter. well i know the seal. from maximus. 
we take this out of the ship we sink he cry. i cannot read but i know one sign at least which make me believe. he show me a dark stain on the out roll that my heavy heart perceive be the valiant blood of maximus. 
read. say amal. read and then let u hear whose servant you be. 
say pertinax very softly after he have look through it. i will read it all. listen barbarian. he read that which i have carry next my heart ever since. 
parnesius draw from his neck a fold and spot piece of parchment and begin in a hush voice. 
_to parnesius and pertinax the not unworthy captain of the wall from maximus once emperor of gaul and britain now prisoner wait death by the sea in the camp of theodosius greet and good bye. 
enough say young amal. there be your proof. you must join u now. 
pertinax look long and silently at him till that fair man blush like a girl. then read pertinax. 
_i have joyfully do much evil in my life to those who have wish me evil but if ever i do any evil to you two i repent and i ask your forgiveness. the three mule which i strive to drive have tear me in piece a your father prophesy. the naked sword wait at the tent door to give me the death i give to gratian. therefore i your general and your emperor send you free and honourable dismissal from my service which you enter not for money or office but a it make me warm to believe because you love me. 
by the light of the sun amal break in. this be in some sort a man. we may have be mistake in his servant. 
and pertinax read on. _you give me the time for which i ask. if i have fail to use it do not lament. we have gamble very splendidly against the god but they hold weight dice and i must pay the forfeit. remember i have be. but rome be. and rome will be. tell pertinax his mother be in safety at nicaea and her monies be in charge of the prefect at antipolis. make my remembrance to your father and to your mother whose friendship be great gain to me. give also to my little picts and to the wing hat such message a their thick head can understand. i would have send you three legion this very day if all have go aright. do not forget me. we have work together. farewell. farewell. farewell. 
now that be my emperor s last letter. the child hear the parchment crackle a parnesius return it to it place. 
i be mistake say amal. the servant of such a man will sell nothing except over the sword. i be glad of it. he hold out his hand to me. 
but maximus ha give you your dismissal say an elder. you be certainly free to serve or to rule whom you please. join do not follow join u. 
we thank you say pertinax. but maximus tell u to give you such message a pardon me but i use his word your thick head can understand. he point through the door to the foot of a catapult wind up. 
we understand say an elder. the wall must be win at a price. 
it grief me say pertinax laugh but so it must be win and he give them of our best southern wine. 
they drink and wipe their yellow beard in silence till they rise to go. 
say amal stretch himself. for they be barbarian. we be a goodly company. i wonder what the raven and the dogfish will make of some of u before this snow melt. 
think rather what theodosius may send i answer. and though they laugh i saw that my chance shoot trouble them. 
only old allo linger behind a little. 
you see he say wink and blink i be no more than their dog. when i have show their men the secret short way across our bog they will kick me like one. 
then i should not be in haste to show them those way say pertinax till i be sure that rome could not save the wall. 
you think so. woe be me. say the old man. i only want peace for my people and he go out stumble through the snow behind the tall wing hat. 
in this fashion then slowly a day at a time which be very bad for doubt troop the war come upon u. at first the wing hat sweep in from the sea a they have do before and there we meet them a before with the catapult. and they sicken of it. yet for a long time they would not trust their duck leg on land and i think when it come to reveal the secret of the tribe the little picts be afraid or ashamed to show them all the road across the heather. i have this from a pict prisoner. they be a much our spy a our enemy for the wing hat oppress them and take their winter store. ah foolish little people. 
then the wing hat begin to roll u up from each end of the wall. i send runner southward to see what the news might be in britain but the wolf be very bold that winter among the desert station where the troop have once be and none come back. we have trouble too with the forage for the pony along the wall. i keep ten and so do pertinax. we live and sleep in the saddle rid east or west and we eat our wear out pony. the people of the town also make u some trouble till i gather them all in one quarter behind hunno. we break down the wall on either side of it to make a it be a citadel. our men fight good in close order. 
by the end of the second month we be deep in the war a a man be deep in a snowdrift or in a dream. i think we fight in our sleep. at least i know i have go on the wall and come off again remember nothing between though my throat be harsh with give order and my sword i could see have be use. 
the wing hat fight like wolf all in a pack. where they have suffer most there they charge in most hotly. this be hard for the defender but it hold them from sweep on into britain. 
in those day pertinax and i write on the plaster of the bricked archway into valentia the name of the tower and the day on which they fell one by one. we wish for some record. 
and the fight. the fight be always hot to leave and right of the great statue of rom dea near to rutilianus s house. by the light of the sun that old fat man whom we have not consider at all grow young again among the trumpet. i remember he say his sword be an oracle. let u consult the oracle he would say and put the handle against his ear and shake his head wisely. and this day be allow rutilianus to live he would say and tuck up his cloak he would puff and pant and fight well. oh there be jest in plenty on the wall to take the place of food. 
we endure for two month and seventeen day always be press from three side into a small space. several time allo send in word that help be at hand. we do not believe it but it cheer our men. the end come not with shouting of joy but like the rest a in a dream. the wing hat suddenly leave u in peace for one night and the next day. which be too long for spend men. we sleep at first lightly expect to be rouse and then like log each where he lay. may you never need such sleep. when i wake our tower be full of strange arm men who watch u snore. i rouse pertinax and we leap up together. 
what. say a young man in clean armour. do you fight against theodosius. look. 
north we look over the red snow. no wing hat be there. south we look over the white snow and behold there be the eagle of two strong legion encamp. east and west we saw flame and fight but by hunno all be still. 
trouble no more say the young man. rome s arm be long. where be the captain of the wall. 
we say we be those men. 
but you be old and grey haired he cry. maximus say that they be boy. 
yes that be true some year ago say pertinax. what be our fate to be you fine and well feed child. 
i be call ambrosius a secretary of the emperor he answer. show me a certain letter which maximus write from a tent at aquileia and perhaps i will believe. 
i take it from my breast and when he have read it he salute u say. your fate be in your own hand. if you choose to serve theodosius he will give you a legion. if it suit you to go to your home we will give you a triumph. 
i would like good a bath wine food razor soap oil and scent say pertinax laugh. 
oh i see you be a boy say ambrosius. and you. turn to me. 
we bear no ill will against theodosius but in war i begin. 
in war it be a it be in love say pertinax. whether she be good or bad one give one s best once to one only. that give there remain no second worth give or take. 
that be true say ambrosius. i be with maximus before he die. he warn theodosius that you would never serve him and frankly i say i be sorry for my emperor. 
he ha rome to console him say pertinax. i ask you of your kindness to let u go to our home and get this smell out of our nostril. 
none the le they give u a triumph. 
it be well earn say puck throw some leaf into the still water of the marlpit. the black oily circle spread dizzily a the child watch them. 
i want to know oh ever so many thing say dan. what happen to old allo. do the wing hat ever come back. and what do amal do. 
and what happen to the fat old general with the five cook. say una. and what do your mother say when you come home. 
she d say you re settin too long over this old pit so late a ti already say old hobden s voice behind them. hst. he whisper. 
he stand still for not twenty pace away a magnificent dog fox sit on his haunch and look at the child a though he be an old friend of theirs. 
oh mu reynolds mu reynolds. say hobden under his breath. if i know all be inside your head i d know something wuth knowin. mu dan an miss una come along o me while i lock up my liddle hen house. 
a pict song. 
rome never look where she tread always her heavy hoof fall on our stomach our heart or our head. and rome never heed when we bawl. her sentry pas on that be all and we gather behind them in horde and plot to reconquer the wall with only our tongue for our sword. 
we be the little folk we. too little to love or to hate. leave u alone and you ll see how we can drag down the great. we be the worm in the wood. we be the rot at the root. we be the germ in the blood. we be the thorn in the foot. 
mistletoe kill an oak rat gnaw cable in two moth make hole in a cloak how they must love what they do. yes and we little folk too we be a busy a they work our work out of view watch and you ll see it some day. 
no indeed. we be not strong but we know people that be. yes and we ll guide them along to smash and destroy you in war. we shall be slave just the same. yes we have always be slave but you you will die of the shame and then we shall dance on your graf. 
we be the little folk we etc. 
hal o the draft. 
prophet have honour all over the earth except in the village where they be bear where such a know them boy from birth nature ally hold em in scorn. 
when prophet be naughty and young and vain they make a win erful grievance of it. you can see by their writing how they complain. but oh ti win erful good for the prophet. 
there s nothing nineveh town can give. nor be swallow by whale between. make up for the place where a man s folk live that don t care nothing what he ha be. he might ha be that or he might ha be this but they love and they hate him for what he be. 
a rainy afternoon drive dan and una over to play pirate in the little mill. if you don t mind rat on the rafter and oat in your shoe the mill attic with it trap door and inscription on beam about flood and sweetheart be a splendid place. it be light by a foot square window call duck window that look across to little linden farm and the spot where jack cade be kill. 
when they have climb the attic ladder. they call it the mainmast tree out of the ballad of sir andrew barton and dan swarved it with might and main a the ballad say. they saw a man sit on duck window sill. he be dress in a plum colour doublet and tight plum colour hose and he draw busily in a red edge book. 
sit ye. sit ye. puck cry from a rafter overhead. see what it be to be beautiful. sir harry dawe pardon hal say i be the very image of a head for a gargoyle. 
the man laugh and raise his dark velvet cap to the child and his grizzle hair bristle out in a stormy fringe. he be old forty at least but his eye be young with funny little wrinkle all round them. a satchel of embroider leather hang from his broad belt which look interest. 
may we see. say una come forward. 
surely sure ly. he say move up on the window seat and return to his work with a silver point pencil. puck sit a though the grin be fix for ever on his broad face while they watch the quick certain finger that copy it. presently the man take a reed pen from his satchel and trim it with a little ivory knife carve in the semblance of a fish. 
oh what a beauty. cry dan. 
ware finger. that blade be perilous sharp. i make it myself of the best low country cross bow steel. and so too this fish. when his back fin travel to his tail so he swallow up the blade even a the whale swallow gaffer jonah. yes and that s my ink horn. i make the four silver saint round it. press barnabas s head. it open and then he dip the trim pen and with careful boldness begin to put in the essential line of puck s rugged face that have be but faintly reveal by the silver point. 
the child gasp for it fairly leap from the page. 
a he work and the rain fell on the tile he talk now clearly now mutter now break off to frown or smile at his work. he tell them he be bear at little linden farm and his father use to beat him for draw thing instead of do thing till an old priest call father roger who draw illuminate letter in rich people s book coax the parent to let him take the boy a a sort of painter s apprentice. then he go with father roger to oxford where he clean plate and carry cloak and shoe for the scholar of a college call merton. 
didn t you hate that. say dan after a great many other question. 
i never think on t. half oxford be build new college or beautify the old and she have call to her aid the master craftsman of all christendie king in their trade and honour of king. i know them. i work for them. that be enough. no wonder he stop and laugh. 
you become a great man hal say puck. 
they say so robin. even bramante say so. 
why. what do you do. dan ask. 
the artist look at him queerly. thing in stone and such up and down england. you would not have hear of em. to come near home i rebuild this little st barnabas church of ours. it cost me more trouble and sorrow than aught i ve touch in my life. but twas a sound lesson. 
um say dan. we ve have lesson this morning. 
i ll not afflict ye lad say hal while puck roar. only ti strange to think how that little church be rebuild re roof and make glorious thank to some few godly sussex iron master a bristow sailor lad a proud as call hal o the draft because d you see he be always draw and draft. and he drag the word slowly and a scotch pirate. 
pirate. say dan. he wriggle like a hook fish. 
even that andrew barton you be sing of on the stair just now. he dip again in the ink well and hold his breath over a sweep line a though he have forget everything else. 
pirate don t build church do they. say dan. or do they. 
they help mightily hal laugh. but you be at your lesson this morn jack scholar. 
oh pirate aren t lesson. it be only bruce and his silly old spider say una. why do sir andrew barton help you. 
i question if he ever know it say hal twinkle. robin how a mischief s name be i to tell these innocent what come of sinful pride. 
oh we know all about that_ say una pertly. if you get too beany that s cheeky you get sit upon of course. 
hal consider a moment pen in air and puck say some long word. 
aha. that be my case too he cry. beany you say but certainly i do not conduct myself well. i be proud of of such thing a porch a galilee porch at lincoln for choice proud of one torrigiano s arm on my shoulder proud of my knighthood when i make the gild scroll work for the sovereign our king s ship. but father roger sit in merton library he do not forget me. at the top of my pride when i and no other should have build the porch at lincoln he lay it on me with a terrible forefinger to go back to my sussex clay and rebuild at my own charge my own church where u dawes have be bury for six generation. out. son of my art. say he. fight the devil at home ere you call yourself a man and a craftsman. and i quake and i go. how s yon robin. he flourish the finish sketch before puck. 
me. me past peradventure say puck smirk like a man at a mirror. ah see. the rain ha take off. i hate housen in daylight. 
whoop. holiday. cry hal leap up. who s for my little linden. we can talk there. 
they tumble downstairs and turn past the drip willow by the sunny mill dam. 
body o me say hal star at the hop garden where the hop be just ready to blossom. what be these. vine. no not vine and they twine the wrong way to bean. he begin to draw in his ready book. 
hop. new since your day say puck. they re an herb of mar and their flower dry flavour ale. we say. 
turkey heresy hop and beer come into england all in one year. 
heresy i know. i ve see hop god be praise for their beauty. what be your turki. 
the child laugh. they know the linden turkey and a soon a they reach linden orchard on the hill the full flock charge at them. 
out come hal s book at once. hoity toity. he cry. here s pride in purple feather. here s wrathy contempt and the pomp of the flesh. how d you call them. 
turkey. turkey. the child shout a the old gobbler rave and flame against hal s plum colour hose. 
save your magnificence. he say. i ve draft two good new thing today. and he doff his cap to the bubble bird. 
then they walk through the grass to the knoll where little linden stand. the old farmhouse weather tile to the grind take almost the colour of a blood ruby in the afternoon light. the pigeon peck at the mortar in the chimney stack. the bee that have live under the tile since it be build fill the hot august air with their boom. and the smell of the box tree by the dairy window mix with the smell of earth after rain bread after bake and a tickle of wood smoke. 
the farmer s wife come to the door baby on arm shade her brow against the sun stoop to pluck a sprig of rosemary and turn down the orchard. the old spaniel in his barrel bark once or twice to show he be in charge of the empty house. puck click back the garden gate. 
d you marvel that i love it. say hal in a whisper. what can town folk know of the nature of housen or land. 
they perch themselves arow on the old hack oak bench in linden garden look across the valley of the brook at the fern cover dimple and hollow of the forge behind hobden s cottage. the old man be cut a faggot in his garden by the hive. it be quite a second after his chopper fell that the chump of the blow reach their lazy ear. 
eh yeh. say hal. i mind when where that old gaffer stand be nether forge master john collins s foundry. many a night ha his big trip hammer shake me in my bed here. boom bitty. boom bitty. if the wind be east i could hear master tom collins s forge at stockens answer his brother boom oop. boom oop. and midway between sir john pelham s sledge hammer at brightling would strike in like a pack o scholar and _hic haec hoc_ they d say _hic haec hoc_ till i fell asleep. yes. the valley be a full o forge and finery a a may shaw o cuckoo. all go to grass now. 
what do they make. say dan. 
gun for the king s ship and for others. serpentines and cannon mostly. when the gun be cast down would come the king s officer and take our plough ox to haul them to the coast. look. here s one of the first and fine craftsman of the sea. 
he flutter back a page of his book and show them a young man s head. underneath be write. sebastianus. 
he come down with a king s order on master john collins for twenty serpentines. wicked little cannon they be. to furnish a venture of ship. i draft him thus sit by our fire tell mother of the new land he d find the far side the world. and he find them too. there s a nose to cleave through unknown sea. cabot be his name a bristol lad half a foreigner. i set a heap by him. he help me to my church build. 
i think that be sir andrew barton say dan. 
ay but foundation before roof hal answer. sebastian first put me in the way of it. i have come down here not to serve god a a craftsman should but to show my people how great a craftsman i be. they care not and it serve me right one split straw for my craft or my greatness. what a murrain call have i they say to mell with old st barnabas. ruinous the church have be since the black death and ruinous she would remain. and i could hang myself in my new scaffold rope. gentle and simple high and low the hay the fowl the fenners the collins they be all in a tale against me. only sir john pelham up yonder at brightling bid me heart up and go on. yet how could i. do i ask master collins for his timber tug to haul beam. the ox have go to lewes after lime. do he promise me a set of iron cramp or tie for the roof. they never come to hand or else they be spaulty or crack. so with everything. nothing say but naught do except i stand by them and then do amiss. i think the countryside be fair bewitch. 
it be sure ly say puck knee under chin. do you never suspect ary one. 
not till sebastian come for his gun and john collins play him the same dog s trick a he d play me with my ironwork. week in week out two of three serpentines would be flaw in the cast and only fit they say to be re melt. then john collins would shake his head and vow he could pas no cannon for the king s service that be not perfect. saint. how sebastian storm. i know for we sit on this bench share our sorrow inter common. 
when sebastian have fume away six week at linden and get just six serpentines dirk brenzett master of the cygnet hoy send me word that the block of stone he be fetch me from france for our new font he d heave overboard to lighten his ship chase by andrew barton up to rye port. 
ah. the pirate. say dan. 
yes. and while i be tear my hair over this ticehurst will my best mason come to me shake and vow that the devil horn tail and chain ha run out on him from the church tower and the men would work there no more. so i take em off the foundation which we be strengthen and go into the bell tavern for a cup of ale. say master john collins. have it your own way lad. but if i be you i d take the sinnification o the sign and leave old barnabas church alone. and they all wag their sinful head and agree. le afraid of the devil than of me a i saw late. 
when i bring my sweet news to linden sebastian be limewashing the kitchen beam for mother. he love her like a son. 
cheer up lad he say. god s where he be. only you and i chance to be pure pute ass. we ve be trick hal and more shame to me a sailor that i do not guess it before. you must leave your belfry alone forsooth because the devil be adrift there. and i cannot get my serpentines because john collins cannot cast them aright. meantime andrew barton hawk off the port of rye. and why. to take those very serpentines which poor cabot must whistle for. the say serpentines i ll wager my share of new continent be now hide away in st barnabas church tower. clear a the irish coast at noonday. 
they d sure never dare to do it i say. and for another thing sell cannon to the king s enemy be black treason hang and fine. 
it be sure large profit. men ll dare any gallows for that. i have be a trader myself say he. we must be upside with em for the honour of bristol. 
then he hatch a plot sit on the limewash bucket. we give out to ride o tuesday to london and make a show of take farewell of our friend especially of master john collins. but at wadhurst wood we turn. ride home to the watermeadows. hide our horse in a willow tot at the foot of the glebe and come night steal a tiptoe up hill to barnabas church again. a thick mist and a moon strike through. 
i have no sooner lock the tower door behind u than over go sebastian full length in the dark. 
pest. he say. step high and feel low hal. i ve stumble over gun before. 
i grope and one by one the tower be pitchy dark i count the lithe barrel of twenty serpentines lay out on pea straw. no conceal at all. 
there s two demi cannon my end say sebastian slap metal. they ll be for andrew barton s low deck. honest honest john collins. so this be his warehouse his arsenal his armoury. now see you why your poking and prying have raise the devil in sussex. you ve hinder john s lawful trade for month and he laugh where he lay. 
a clay cold tower be no fireside at midnight so we climb the belfry stair and there sebastian trip over a cow hide with it horn and tail. 
aha. your devil ha leave his doublet. doe it become me hal. he draw it on and caper in the shaft of window moonlight win erful devilish like. then he sit on the stair rap with his tail on a board and his back aspect be dread than his front and a howlet light in and screech at the horn of him. 
if you d keep out the devil shut the door he whisper. and that s another false proverb hal for i can hear your tower door open. 
i lock it. who a plague ha another key then. i say. 
all the congregation to judge by their foot he say and peer into the blackness. still. still hal. hear em grunt. that s more o my serpentines i ll be bind. one two three four they bear in. faith andrew equip himself like an admiral. twenty four serpentines in all. 
a if it have be an echo we hear john collins s voice come up all hollow. twenty four serpentines and two demi cannon. that s the full tally for sir andrew barton. 
courtesy cost naught whisper sebastian. shall i drop my dagger on his head. 
they go over to rye o thursday in the wool wain hide under the wool pack. dirk brenzett meet them at udimore a before say john. 
lord. what a wear handsmooth trade it be. say sebastian. i lay we be the sole two babe in the village that have not our lawful share in the venture. 
there be a full score folk below talk like all robertsbridge market. we count them by voice. 
master john collins pipe. the gun for the french carrack must lie here next month. will when doe your young fool. me so please you. come back from lunnon. 
no odds i hear ticehurst will answer. lay em just where you ve a mind mu collins. we re all too afraid o the devil to mell with the tower now. and the long knave laugh. 
ah. ti easy enow for you to raise the devil will say another ralph hobden of the forge. 
aaa men. roar sebastian and ere i could hold him he leap down the stair win erful devilish like howl no bound. he have scarce time to lay out for the near than they run. saint how they run. we hear them pound on the door of the bell tavern and then we run too. 
what s next. say sebastian loop up his cow tail a he leap the briar. i ve break honest john s face. 
ride to sir john pelham s i say. he be the only one that ever stand by me. 
we ride to brightling and past sir john s lodge where the keeper would have shoot at u for deer stealer and we have sir john down into his justice s chair and when we have tell him our tale and show him the cow hide which sebastian wear still gird about him he laugh till the tear run. 
wel a well. he say. i ll see justice do before daylight. what s your complaint. master collins be my old friend. 
he s none of mine i cry. when i think how he and his like have baulk and dozened and cozen me at every turn over the church and i choke at the think. 
ah but ye see now they need it for another use say he smoothly. 
so they do my serpentines sebastian cry. i should be half across the western ocean by now if my gun have be ready. but they re sell to a scotch pirate by your old friend. 
where s your proof. say sir john stroke his beard. 
i break my shin over them not an hour since and i hear john give order where they be to be take say sebastian. 
word. word only say sir john. master collins be somewhat of a liar at best. 
he carry it so gravely that for the moment i think he be dip in this secret traffick too and that there be not an honest ironmaster in sussex. 
name o reason. say sebastian and rap with his cow tail on the table whose gun be they then. 
yours manifestly say sir john. you come with the king s order for em and master collins cast them in his foundry. if he choose to bring them up from nether forge and lay em out in the church tower why they be e en so much the near to the main road and you be save a day s haul. what a coil to make of a mere act of neighbourly kindness lad. 
i fear i have requite him very scurvily say sebastian look at his knuckle. but what of the demi cannon. i could do with em well but they be not in the king s order. 
kindness love kindness say sir john. questionless in his zeal for the king and his love for you john add those two cannon a a gift. ti plain a this come daylight ye stockfish. 
so it be say sebastian. oh sir john sir john why do you never use the sea. you be lose ashore. and he look on him with great love. 
i do my best in my station. sir john stroke his beard again and roll forth his deep drum justice s voice thus. but suffer me. you two lad on some midnight frolic into which i probe not roystering around the tavern surprise master collins at his he think a moment at his good deed do by stealth. ye surprise him i say cruelly. 
truth sir john. if you have see him run. say sebastian. 
on this you ride breakneck to me with a tale of pirate and wool wain and cow hide which though it hath move my mirth a a man offendeth my reason a a magistrate. so i will e en accompany you back to the tower with perhaps some few of my own people and three four wagon and i ll be your warrant that master john collins will freely give you your gun and your demi cannon master sebastian. he break into his proper voice i warn the old tod and his neighbour long ago that they d come to trouble with their side selling and bye dealing. but we cannot have half sussex hang for a little gun run. be ye content lad. 
i d commit any treason for two demi cannon say sebastian and rub his hand. 
ye have just compound with rank treason felony for the same bribe say sir john. wherefore to horse and get the gun. 
but master collins mean the gun for sir andrew barton all along didn t he. say dan. 
questionless that he do say hal. but he lose them. we pour into the village on the red edge of dawn sir john horse in half armour his pennon fly. behind him thirty stout brightling knave five abreast. behind them four wool wain and behind them four trumpet to triumph over the jest blow. our king go forth to normandie. when we halt and roll the ring gun out of the tower twas for all the world like friar roger s picture of the french siege in the queen s missal book. 
and what do we i mean what do our village do. say dan. 
oh. bore it nobly nobly cry hal. though they have trick me i be proud of them. they come out of their housen look at that little army a though it have be a post and go their shut mouth way. never a sign. never a word. they d ha perish sooner than let brightling overcrow u. even that villain ticehurst will come out of the bell for his morning ale he all but run under sir john s horse. 
ware sirrah devil. cry sir john rein back. 
oh. say will. market day be it. and all the bullock from brightling here. 
i spar him his belt for that the brazen knave. 
but john collins be our masterpiece. he happen along street. his jaw tie up where sebastian have clout him. when we be trundle the first demi cannon through the lych gate. 
i reckon you ll find her middlin heavy he say. if you ve a mind to pay i ll loan ye my timber tug. she win t lie easy on ary wool wain. 
that be the one time i ever saw sebastian take flat aback. he open and shut his mouth fishy like. 
no offence say master john. you ve get her reasonable good cheap. i think ye might not grudge me a groat if i help move her. ah he be a masterpiece. they say that morning s work cost our john two hundred pound and he never wink an eyelid not even when he saw the gun all cart off to lewes. 
neither then nor late. say puck. 
once. twas after he give st barnabas the new chime of bell. oh there be nothing the collins or the hay or the fowl or the fenners would not do for the church then. ask and have be their song. we have ring em in and he be in the tower with black nick fowle that give u our rood screen. the old man pinch the bell rope one hand and scratch his neck with t other. sooner she be pull yon clapper than my neck he say. that be all. that be sussex seely sussex for everlastin. 
and what happen after. say una. 
i go back into england say hal slowly. i d have my lesson against pride. but they tell me i leave st barnabas a jewel justabout a jewel. wel a well. twas do for and among my own people and father roger be right i never know such trouble or such triumph since. that s the nature o thing. a dear dear land. he drop his chin on his chest. 
there s your father at the forge. what s he talk to old hobden about. say puck open his hand with three leaf in it. 
dan look towards the cottage. 
oh i know. it s that old oak lie across the brook. pater always want it grub. 
in the still valley they could hear old hobden s deep tone. 
have it a you ve a mind to he be say. but the vivers of her root they hold the bank together. if you grub her out the bank she ll all come tearin down an next flood the brook ll swarve up. but have it a you ve a mind. the mistuss she set a heap by the fern on her trunk. 
oh. i ll think it over say the pater. 
una laugh a little bubble chuckle. 
what devil s in that belfry. say hal with a lazy laugh. that should be a hobden by his voice. 
why the oak be the regular bridge for all the rabbit between the three acre and our meadow. the best place for wire on the farm hobden say. he s get two there now una answer. he win t ever let it be grub. 
ah sussex. sillly sussex for everlastin murmur hal. and the next moment their father s voice call across to little linden break the spell a little st barnabas clock strike five. 
a smuggler song. 
if you wake at midnight and hear a horse s foot don t go draw back the blind or look in the street them that ask no question isn t tell a lie. watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. five and twenty pony trot through the dark brandy for the parson baccy for the clerk. lace for a lady. letter for a spy and watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. 
run round the woodlump if you chance to find little barrel rope and tar all full of brandy wine. don t you shout to come and look nor take em for your play. put the brishwood back again and they ll be go next day. 
if you see the stable door set open wide. if you see a tire horse lie down inside. if your mother mend a coat cut about and tear. if the line s wet and warm don t you ask no more. 
if you meet king george s men dress in blue and red you be careful what you say and mindful what be say. if they call you pretty maid and chuck you neath the chin don t you tell where no one be nor yet where no one s be. 
knock and footstep round the house whistle after dark you ve no call for run out till the house dog bark. trusty s here and pincher s here and see how dumb they lie they don t fret to follow when the gentleman go by. 
if you do a you ve be tell likely there s a chance you ll be give a dainty doll all the way from france with a cap of valenciennes and a velvet hood a present from the gentleman along o be good. five and twenty pony trot through the dark brandy for the parson baccy for the clerk. them that ask no question isn t tell a lie watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. 
dymchurch flit. 
the bee boy s song. 
bee. bee. hark to your bee. hide from your neighbour a much a you please but all that ha happen to u you must tell or else we will give you no honey to sell. 
a maiden in her glory upon her wed day must tell her bee the story or else they ll fly away. fly away die away dwindle down and leave you. but if you don t deceive your bee your bee will not deceive you. 
marriage birth or buryin news across the sea all you re sad or merry in you must tell the bee. tell em come in an out where the fanners fan cause the bee be justabout a curious a a man. 
don t you wait where tree be when the lightning play. nor don t you hate where bee be or else they ll pine away. pine away dwine away anything to leave you. but if you never grieve your bee your bee ll never grieve you. 
just at dusk a soft september rain begin to fall on the hop picker. the mother wheel the bounce perambulator out of the garden. bin be put away and tally book make up. the young couple stroll home two to each umbrella and the single men walk behind them laugh. dan and una who have be pick after their lesson march off to roast potato at the oast house where old hobden with blue eye be his lurcher dog live all the month through dry the hop. 
they settle themselves a usual on the sack strew cot in front of the fire and when hobden draw up the shutter star a usual at the flameless bed of coal spout it heat up the dark well of the old fashion roundel. slowly he crack off a few fresh piece of coal pack them with finger that never flinch exactly where they would do most good. slowly he reach behind him till dan tilt the potato into his iron scoop of a hand. carefully he arrange them round the fire and then stand for a moment black against the glare. a he close the shutter the oast house seem dark before the day s end and he light the candle in the lanthorn. the child like all these thing because they know them so well. 
the bee boy hobden s son who be not quite right in his head though he can do anything with bee slip in like a shadow. they only guess it when be s stump tail wag against them. 
a big voice begin sing outside in the drizzle. 
old mother laidinwool have nigh twelve month be dead she hear the hop be doin well and then pop up her head. 
there can t be two people make to holler like that. cry old hobden wheel round. 
for say she the boy i ve pick with when i be young and fair they re bind to be at hoppin and i m. 
a man show at the doorway. 
well well. they do say hoppin ll draw the very dead and now i belieft em. you tom. tom shoesmith. hobden lower his lanthorn. 
you re a hem of a time makin your mind to it ralph. the strange stride in three full inch tall than hobden a grey whisker brown face giant with clear blue eye. they shake hand and the child could hear the hard palm rasp together. 
you ain t lose none o your grip say hobden. be it thirty or forty year back you break my head at peasmarsh fair. 
only thirty an no odds tween u regardin head neither. you have it back at me with a hop pole. how do we get home that night. swimmin. 
same way the pheasant come into gubbs s pocket by a little luck an a deal o conjurin. old hobden laugh in his deep chest. 
i see you ve not forget your way about the wood. d ye do any o this still. the strange pretend to look along a gun. 
hobden answer with a quick movement of the hand a though he be peg down a rabbit wire. 
no. that s all that s leave me now. age she must a age she can. an what s your news since all these year. 
oh i ve bin to plymouth i ve bin to dover i ve bin ramblin boy the wide world over. 
the man answer cheerily. i reckon i know a much of old england a most. he turn towards the child and wink boldly. 
i lay they tell you a sight o lie then. i ve be into england fur a wiltsheer once. i be cheat proper over a pair of hedgin glove say hobden. 
there s fancy talkin everywhere. you ve cleave to your own part pretty middlin close ralph. 
can t shift an old tree thout it dyin hobden chuckle. an i be no more anxious to die than you look to be to help me with my hop tonight. 
the great man lean against the brickwork of the roundel and swing his arm abroad. hire me. be all he say and they stump upstairs laugh. 
the child hear their shovel rasp on the cloth where the yellow hop lie dry above the fire and all the oast house fill with the sweet sleepy smell a they be turn. 
who be it. una whisper to the bee boy. 
dunno no more n you if you dunno say he and smile. 
the voice on the dry floor talk and chuckle together and the heavy footstep move back and forth. presently a hop pocket drop through the press hole overhead and stiffen and fatten a they shovel it full. clank. go the press and ram the loose stuff into tight cake. 
gently. they hear hobden cry. you ll bust her crop if you lay on so. you be a careless a gleason s bull tom. come an sit by the fire. she ll do now. 
they come down and a hobden open the shutter to see if the potato be do tom shoesmith say to the child put a plenty salt on em. that ll show you the sort o man i be. again he wink and again the bee boy laugh and una star at dan. 
i know what sort o man you be old hobden grunt grope for the potato round the fire. 
do ye. tom go on behind his back. some of u can t abide horseshoe or church bell or run water. an talkin o runnin water he turn to hobden who be back out of the roundel d you mind the great flood at robertsbridge when the miller s man be drown in the street. 
middlin well. old hobden let himself down on the coal by the fire door. i be courtin my woman on the marsh that year. carter to mu plum i be gettin ten shillin s week. mine be a marsh woman. 
win erful odd gate place romney marsh say tom shoesmith. i ve hear say the world s divide like into europe ashy afriky ameriky australy an romney marsh. 
the marsh folk think so say hobden. i have a hem o trouble to get my woman to leave it. 
where do she come out of. i ve forget ralph. 
dymchurch under the wall hobden answer a potato in his hand. 
then she d be a pett or a whitgift would she. 
whitgift. hobden break open the potato and eat it with the curious neatness of men who make most of their meal in the blowy open. she grow to be quite reasonable like after livin in the weald awhile but our first twenty year or two she be odd fashion no bound. and she be a win erful hand with bee. he cut away a little piece of potato and throw it out to the door. 
ah. i ve hear say the whitgifts could see further through a millstone than most say shoesmith. do she now. 
she be honest innocent of any nigromancin say hobden. only she d read sign and sinnifications out o bird flyin star fallin bee hivin and such. an she d lie awake listenin for call she say. 
that don t prove naught say tom. all marsh folk ha be smuggler since time everlastin. twould be in her blood to listen out o night. 
nature ally old hobden reply smile. i mind when there be smugglin a sight near u than what the marsh be. but that wasn t my woman s trouble. twas a passel o no sense talk he drop his voice about pharisee. 
yes. i ve hear marsh men belieft in em. tom look straight at the wide eye child beside be. 
pharisee cry una. fairy. oh i see. 
people o the hill say the bee boy throw half of his potato towards the door. 
there you be. say hobden point at him. my boy he ha her eye and her out gate sense. that s what she call em. 
and what do you think of it all. 
um um hobden rumble. a man that us field an shaw after dark a much a i ve do he don t go out of his road excep for keeper. 
but settin that aside. say tom coaxingly. i saw ye throw the good piece out at door just now. do ye believe or do ye. 
there be a great black eye to that tater say hobden indignantly. 
my liddle eye didn t see un then. it look a if you mean it for for any one that might need it. but settin that aside d ye believe or do ye. 
i ain t sayin nothin because i ve hear naught an i ve see naught. but if you be to say there be more thing after dark in the shaw than men or fur or feather or fin i dunno a i d go far about to call you a liar. now turnagain tom. what s your say. 
i m like you. i say nothin. but i ll tell you a tale an you can fit it a how you please. 
passel o no sense stuff growl hobden but he fill his pipe. 
the marsh men they call it dymchurch flit tom go on slowly. hap you have hear it. 
my woman she ve tell it me score o time. dunno a i didn t end by belieftin it sometimes. 
hobden cross over a he speak and suck with his pipe at the yellow lanthorn flame. tom rest one great elbow on one great knee where he sit among the coal. 
have you ever bin in the marsh. he say to dan. 
only a far a rye once dan answer. 
ah that s but the edge. back behind of her there s steeple settin beside church an wise woman settin beside their door an the sea settin above the land an duck herdin wild in the diks. he mean ditch. the marsh be justabout riddle with diks an sluice an tide gate an water let. you can hear em bubblin an grummelin when the tide work in em an then you hear the sea rangin leave and right hand all up along the wall. you ve see how flat she be the marsh. you d think nothin easy than to walk eend on acrost her. ah but the diks an the water let they twist the road about a ravelly a witch yarn on the spindle. so ye get all turn round in broad daylight. 
that s because they ve dreened the water into the diks say hobden. when i court my woman the rush be green eh me. the rush be green an the bailiff o the marsh he ride up and down a free a the fog. 
who be he. say dan. 
why the marsh fever an ague. he ve clap me on the shoulder once or twice till i shake proper. but now the dreenin off of the water have do away with the fever. so they make a joke like that the bailiff o the marsh break his neck in a dik. a win erful place for bee an duck ti too. 
an old tom go on. flesh an blood have be there since time everlastin beyond. well now speakin among themselves the marsh men say that from time everlastin beyond the pharisee favour the marsh above the rest of old england. i lay the marsh men ought to know. they ve be out after dark father an son smugglin some one thing or t other since ever wool grow to sheep s back. they say there be always a middlin few pharisee to be see on the marsh. impident a rabbit they be. they d dance on the nakid road in the nakid daytime. they d flash their liddle green light along the diks comin an goin like honest smuggler. yes an time they d lock the church door against parson an clerk of sunday. 
that ud be smuggler layin in the lace or the brandy till they could run it out o the marsh. i ve tell my woman so say hobden. 
i ll lay she didn t belieft it then not if she be a whitgift. a win erful choice place for pharisee the marsh by all account till queen be s father he come in with his reformatory. 
would that be a act of parliament like. hobden ask. 
sure ly. can t do nothing in old england without act warrant an summon. he get his act allow him an they say queen be s father he use the parish church something shameful. justabout tear the gizzard out of i dunnamany. some folk in england they hold with en. but some they saw it different an it eended in em takin side an burnin each other no bound accordin which side be top time bein. that tarrified the pharisee. for goodwill among flesh an blood be meat an drink to em an ill will be poison. 
same a bee say the bee boy. bee win t stay by a house where there s hat. 
true say tom. this reformatory tarrified the pharisee same a the reaper goin round a last stand o wheat tarrifies rabbit. they pack into the marsh from all part and they say fair or foul we must flit out o this for merry england s do with an we re reckon among the image. 
do they all see it that way. say hobden. 
all but one that be call robin if you ve hear of him. what be you laughin at. tom turn to dan. the pharisee s trouble didn t tech robin because he d cleave middlin close to people like. no more he never mean to go out of old england not he. so he be send messagin for help among flesh an blood. but flesh an blood must always think of their own concern an robin couldn t get through at em ye see. they think it be tide echo off the marsh. 
what do you what do the fai pharisee want. una ask. 
a boat to be sure. their liddle wing could no more cross channel than so many tire butterfly. a boat an a crew they desire to sail em over to france where yet awhile folk hadn t tear down the image. they couldn t abide cruel canterbury bell ringin to bulverhithe for more pore men an woman to be burnded nor the king s proud messenger ridin through the land givin order to tear down the image. they couldn t abide it no shape. nor yet they couldn t get their boat an crew to flit by without leave an good will from flesh an blood. an flesh an blood come an go about it own business the while the marsh be swarvin up an swarvin up with pharisee from all england over strivin all mean to get through at flesh an blood to tell em their sore need. i don t know a you ve ever hear say pharisee be like chicken. 
my woman use to say that too say hobden fold his brown arm. 
they be. you run too many chicken together an the grind sicken like an you get a squat an your chicken die. same way you crowd pharisee all in one place they don t die but flesh an blood walkin among em be apt to sick up an pine off. they don t mean it an flesh an blood don t know it but that s the truth a i ve hear. the pharisee through bein all stenched up an fright an try to come through with their supplication they nature ally change the thin air an humour in flesh an blood. it lay on the marsh like thunder. men saw their church ablaze with the wildfire in the window after dark. they saw their cattle scatterin an no man scarin. their sheep flockin an no man drivin. their horse latherin an no man leadin. they saw the liddle low green light more than ever in the dik side. they hear the liddle foot patterin more than ever round the house. an night an day day an night twas all a though they be bein creep up on an hint at by some one or other that couldn t rightly shape their trouble. oh i lay they sweat. man an maid woman an child their nature do em no service all the week while the marsh be swarvin up with pharisee. but they be flesh an blood an marsh men before all. they reckon the sign sinnified trouble for the marsh. or that the sea ud rear up against dymchurch wall an they d be drownded like old winchelsea. or that the plague be comin. so they look for the meanin in the sea or in the cloud far an high up. they never think to look near an knee high where they could see naught. 
now there be a poor widow at dymchurch under the wall which lack man or property she have the more time for feel. and she come to feel there be a trouble outside her doorstep big an heavy than aught she d ever carry over it. she have two son one bear blind an t other strike dumb through fallin off the wall when he be liddle. they be men grow but not wage earnin an she work for em keepin bee and answerin question. 
what sort of question. say dan. 
like where lose thing might be find an what to put about a crook baby s neck an how to join part sweetheart. she felt the trouble on the marsh same a eel feel thunder. she be a wise woman. 
my woman be win erful weather tender too say hobden. i ve see her brish spark like off an anvil out of her hair in thunderstorm. but she never lay out to answer question. 
this woman be a seeker like an seeker they sometimes find. one night while she lay abed hot an achin there come a dream an tap at her window an widow whitgift it say widow whitgift. 
first by the wing an the whistlin she think it be peewit but last she arise an dress herself an open her door to the marsh an she felt the trouble an the groanin all about her strong a fever an ague an she call. what be it. oh what be it. 
then twas all like the frog in the diks peepin. then twas all like the reed in the diks clip clappin. an then the great tide wave rummelled along the wall an she couldn t hear proper. 
three time she call an three time the tide wave do her down. but she catch the quiet between an she cry out what be the trouble on the marsh that s be lie down with my heart an arise with my body this month go. she felt a liddle hand lay hold on her gown hem an she stoop to the pull o that liddle hand. 
tom shoesmith spread his huge fist before the fire and smile at it. 
will the sea drown the marsh. she say. she be a marsh woman first an foremost. 
no say the liddle voice. sleep sound for all o that. 
be the plague comin to the marsh. she say. them be all the ill she know. 
no. sleep sound for all o that say robin. 
she turn about half mindful to go in but the liddle voice grieve that shrill an sorrowful she turn back an she cry. if it be not a trouble of flesh an blood what can i do. 
the pharisee cry out upon her from all round to fetch them a boat to sail to france an come back no more. 
there s a boat on the wall she say but i can t push it down to the sea nor sail it when ti there. 
lend u your son say all the pharisee. give em leave an good will to sail it for u mother o mother. 
one s dumb an t other s blind she say. but all the dear me for that. and you ll lose them in the big sea. the voice justabout pierce through her. an there be child s voice too. she stand out all she could but she couldn t rightly stand against that. so she say. if you can draw my son for your job i ll not hind em. you can t ask no more of a mother. 
she saw them liddle green light dance an cross till she be dizzy. she hear them liddle foot patterin by the thousand. she hear cruel canterbury bell ring to bulverhithe an she hear the great tide wave range along the wall. that be while the pharisee be workin a dream to wake her two son asleep. an while she bite on her finger she saw them two she d bore come out an pas her with never a word. she follow em cryin pitiful to the old boat on the wall an that they take an runned down to the sea. 
when they d step mast an sail the blind son speak. mother we re waitin your leave an good will to take them over. 
tom shoesmith throw back his head and half shut his eye. 
eh me. he say. she be a fine valiant woman the widow whitgift. she stand twistin the eends of her long hair over her finger an she shake like a poplar makin up her mind. the pharisee all about they hush their child from cryin an they wait dumb still. she be all their dependence. thout her leave an good will they could not pas. for she be the mother. so she shake like a aps tree makin up her mind. last she drive the word past her teeth an go. she say. go with my leave an goodwill. 
then i saw then they say she have to brace back same a if she be wadin in tide water. for the pharisee just about flow past her down the beach to the boat i dunnamany of em with their wife an childern an valooables all escapin out of cruel old england. silver you could hear chinkin an liddle bundle heave down dunt on the bottom board an passel o liddle sword an shield raklin an liddle finger an toe scratchin on the boatside to board her when the two son push her off. that boat she sink low an low but all the widow could see in it be her boy movin hamper like to get at the tackle. up sail they do an away they go deep a a rye barge away into the off shore mist an the widow whitgift she sit down an ease her grief till mornin light. 
i never hear she be all alone say hobden. 
i remember now. the one call robin he stay with her they tell. she be all too grievious to listen to his promise. 
ah. she should ha make her bargain beforehand. i allus tell my woman so. hobden cry. 
no. she loan her son for a pure love loan bein a she sense the trouble on the marsh an be simple good willin to ease it. tom laugh softly. she do that. yes she do that. from hithe to bulverhithe fretty man an maid ailin woman an wailin child they take the advantage of the change in the thin air just about a soon a the pharisee flit. folk come out fresh an shinin all over the marsh like snail after wet. an that while the widow whitgift sit grievin on the wall. she might have belieft u she might have trust her son would be send back. she fuss no bound when their boat come in after three day. 
and of course the son be both quite cure. say una. 
no o. that would have be out o nature. she get em back a she send em. the blind man he hadn t see naught of anythin an the dumb man nature ally he couldn t say aught of what he d see. i reckon that be why the pharisee pitch on em for the ferryin job. 
but what do you what do robin promise the widow. say dan. 
what do he promise now. tom pretend to think. wasn t your woman a whitgift ralph. didn t she ever say. 
she tell me a passel o no sense stuff when he be bear. hobden point at his son. there be always to be one of em that could see further into a millstone than most. 
me. that s me. say the bee boy so suddenly that they all laugh. 
i ve get it now. cry tom slap his knee. so long a whitgift blood last robin promise there would allers be one o her stock that that no trouble ud lie on no maid ud sigh on no night could frighten no fright could harm no harm could make sin an no woman could make a fool of. 
well ain t that just me. say the bee boy where he sit in the silver square of the great september moon that be star into the oast house door. 
they be the exact word she tell me when we first find he wasn t like others. but it beat me how you know em say hobden. 
aha. there s more under my hat besides hair. tom laugh and stretch himself. when i ve see these two young folk home we ll make a night of old day ralph with passin old tale eh. an where might you live. he say gravely to dan. an do you think your pa ud give me a drink for takin you there missy. 
they giggle so at this that they have to run out. tom pick them both up set one on each broad shoulder and tramp across the ferny pasture where the cow puff milky puff at them in the moonlight. 
oh puck. puck. i guess you right from when you talk about the salt. how could you ever do it. una cry swing along delight. 
do what. he say and climb the stile by the pollard oak. 
pretend to be tom shoesmith say dan and they duck to avoid the two little ash that grow by the bridge over the brook. tom be almost run. 
yes. that s my name mu dan he say hurry over the silent shin lawn where a rabbit sit by the big white thorn near the croquet grind. here you be. he stride into the old kitchen yard and slide them down a ellen come to ask question. 
i m help in mu spray s oast house he say to her. no i m no foreigner. i know this country fore your mother be bear. an yes it s dry work oastin miss. thank you. 
ellen go to get a jug and the child go in magicked once more by oak ash and thorn. 
a three part song. 
i m just in love with all these three the weald an the marsh an the down countrie. nor i don t know which i love the most the weald or the marsh or the white chalk coast. 
i ve bury my heart in a ferny hill twix a liddle low shaw an a great high gill. oh hop bine yaller an woodsmoke blue i reckon you ll keep her middle true. 
i ve loose my mind for to out an run on a marsh that be old when king begin. oh romney level an brenzett reed i reckon you know what my mind need. 
i ve give my soul to the southdown grass an sheep bell tinkle where you pas. oh firle an ditchling an sail at sea i reckon you keep my soul for me. 
the treasure and the law. 
song of the fifth river. 
when first by eden tree the four great river run to each be appoint a man her prince and ruler to be. 
but after this be ordain. the ancient legend tell. there come dark israel for whom no river remain. 
then he that be wholly just say to him. fling on the grind a handful of yellow dust and a fifth great river shall run mighty than these four in secret the earth around. and her secret evermore shall be show to thee and thy race. 
so it be say and do. and deep in the vein of earth and feed by a thousand spring that comfort the market place or sap the power of king the fifth great river have birth even a it be foretell the secret river of gold. 
and israel lay down his sceptre and his crown to brood on that river bank where the water flash and sink and burrow in earth and fell and bid a season below. for reason that none might know save only israel. 
he be lord of the last the fifth most wonderful flood. he hear her thunder past and her song be in his blood. he can foresay. she will fall for he know which fountain dry behind which desert belt a thousand league to the south. he can foresay. she will rise. he know what far snow melt. along what mountain wall a thousand league to the north. he snuff the come drought a he snuff the come rain he know what each will bring forth and turn it to his gain. 
a prince without a sword a ruler without a throne. israel follow his quest. in every land a guest of many land a lord in no land king be he. but the fifth great river keep the secret of her deep for israel alone a it be order to be. 
the treasure and the law. 
now it be the third week in november and the wood ring with the noise of pheasant shoot. no one hunt that steep cramp country except the village beagle who a often a not escape from their kennel and make a day of their own. dan and una find a couple of them towling round the kitchen garden after the laundry cat. the little brute be only too please to go rabbit so the child run them all along the brook pasture and into little linden farm yard where the old sow vanquish them and up to the quarry hole where they start a fox. he head for far wood and there they frighten out all the pheasant who be shelter from a big beat across the valley. then the cruel gun begin again and they grab the beagle l they should stray and get hurt. 
i wouldn t be a pheasant in november for a lot dan pant a he catch folly by the neck. why do you laugh that horrid way. 
i didn t say una sit on flora_ the fat lady dog. oh look. the silly bird be go back to their own wood instead of ours where they would be safe. 
safe till it please you to kill them. an old man so tall he be almost a giant step from behind the clump of holly by volaterrae. the child jump and the dog drop like setter. he wear a sweep gown of dark thick stuff line and edge with yellowish fur and he bow a bend down bow that make them feel both proud and ashamed. then he look at them steadily and they star back without doubt or fear. 
you be not afraid. he say run his hand through his splendid grey beard. not afraid that those men yonder he jerk his head towards the incessant pop pop of the gun from the low wood will do you hurt. 
we ell dan like to be accurate especially when he be shy old hobd a friend of mine tell me that one of the beater get pepper last week hit in the leg i mean. you see mr meyer will fire at rabbit. but he give waxy garnett a quid sovereign i mean and waxy tell hobden he d have stand both barrel for half the money. 
he doesn t understand una cry watch the pale trouble face. oh i wish. 
she have scarcely say it when puck rustle out of the holly and speak to the man quickly in foreign word. puck wear a long cloak too the afternoon be just frost down and it change his appearance altogether. 
nay nay. he say at last. you do not understand the boy. a freeman be a little hurt by pure mischance at the hunt. 
i know that mischance. what do his lord do. laugh and ride over him. the old man sneer. 
it be one of your own people do the hurt kadmiel. puck s eye twinkle maliciously. so he give the freeman a piece of gold and no more be say. 
a jew draw blood from a christian and no more be say. kadmiel cry. never. when do they torture him. 
no man may be bind or fin or slay till he ha be judge by his peer puck insist. there be but one law in old england for jew or christian the law that be sign at runnymede. 
why that s magna charta. dan whisper. it be one of the few history date that he could remember. kadmiel turn on him with a sweep and a whirr of his spicy scent gown. 
dost thou know of that babe. he cry and lift his hand in wonder. 
yes say dan firmly. 
magna charta be sign by john that henry the third put his heel upon. 
and old hobden say that if it hadn t be for her. he call everything her you know. the keeper would have him clap in lewes gaol all the year round. 
again puck translate to kadmiel in the strange solemn sound language and at last kadmiel laugh. 
out of the mouth of babe do we learn say he. but tell me now and i will not call you a babe but a rabbi why do the king sign the roll of the new law at runnymede. for he be a king. 
dan look sideways at his sister. it be her turn. 
because he jolly well have to say una softly. the baron make him. 
nay kadmiel answer shake his head. you christian always forget that gold doe more than the sword. our good king sign because he could not borrow more money from u bad jew. he curve his shoulder a he speak. a king without gold be a snake with a break back and his nose sneer up and his eyebrow frown down it be a good deed to break a snake s back. that be my work he cry triumphantly to puck. spirit of earth bear witness that that be my work. he shoot up to his full tower height and his word ring like a trumpet. he have a voice that change it tone almost a an opal change colour sometimes deep and thundery sometimes thin and waily but always it make you listen. 
many people can bear witness to that puck answer. tell these babe how it be do. remember master they do not know doubt or fear. 
so i saw in their face when we meet say kadmiel. yet surely surely they be teach to spit upon jew. 
be they. say dan much interest. where at. 
puck fell back a pace laugh. kadmiel be think of king john s reign he explain. his people be badly treat then. 
oh we know that. they answer and. it be very rude of them but they could not help it. they star straight at kadmiel s mouth to see if his teeth be all there. it stick in their lesson memory that king john use to pull out jew teeth to make them lend him money. 
kadmiel understand the look and smile bitterly. 
no. your king never draw my teeth. i think perhaps i draw his. listen. i be not bear among christian but among moor in spain in a little white town under the mountain. yes the moor be cruel but at least their learn men dare to think. it be prophesy of me at my birth that i should be a lawgiver to a people of a strange speech and a hard language. we jew be always look for the prince and the lawgiver to come. why not. my people in the town. we be very few. set me apart a a child of the prophecy the choose of the choose. we jew dream so many dream. you would never guess it to see u slink about the rubbish heap in our quarter. but at the day s end door shut candle light aha. then we become the choose again. 
he pace back and forth through the wood a he talk. the rattle of the shoot gun never cease and the dog whimper a little and lay flat on the leaf. 
i be a prince. yes. think of a little prince who have never know rough word in his own house hand over to shout beard rabbi who pull his ear and filliped his nose all that he might learn learn learn to be king when his time come. hé. such a little prince it be. one eye he keep on the stone throw moorish boy and the other it rove about the street look for his kingdom. yes and he learn to cry softly when he be hunt up and down those street. he learn to do all thing without noise. he play beneath his father s table when the great candle be light and he listen a child listen to the talk of his father s friend above the table. they come across the mountain from out of all the world for my prince s father be their counsellor. they come from behind the army of sala ud din. from rome. from venice. from england. they steal down our alley they tap secretly at our door they take off their rag they array themselves and they talk to my father at the wine. all over the world the heathen fight each other. they bring news of these war and while he play beneath the table my prince hear these meanly dress one decide between themselves how and when and for how long king should draw sword against king and people rise up against people. why not. there can be no war without gold and we jew know how the earth s gold move with the season and the crop and the wind. circle and loop and rise and sink away like a river a wonderful underground river. how should the foolish king know that while they fight and steal and kill. 
the child s face show that they know nothing at all a with open eye they trot and turn beside the long stride old man. he twitch his gown over his shoulder and a square plate of gold stud with jewel gleam for an instant through the fur like a star through fly snow. 
no matter he say. but credit me my prince saw peace or war decide not once but many time by the fall of a coin spin between a jew from bury and a jewess from alexandria in his father s house when the great candle be light. such power have we jew among the gentile. ah my little prince. do you wonder that he learn quickly. why not. he mutter to himself and go on. 
my trade be that of a physician. when i have learn it in spain i go to the east to find my kingdom. why not. a jew be a free a a sparrow or a dog. he go where he be hunt. in the east i find library where men dare to think school of medicine where they dare to learn. i be diligent in my business. therefore i stand before king. i have be a brother to prince and a companion to beggar and i have walk between the live and the dead. there be no profit in it. i do not find my kingdom. so in the tenth year of my travel when i have reach the uttermost eastern sea i return to my father s house. god have wonderfully preserve my people. none have be slay none even wound and only a few scourge. i become once more a son in my father s house. again the great candle be light. again the meanly apparelled one tap on our door after dusk. and again i hear them weigh out peace and war a they weigh out the gold on the table. but i be not rich not very rich. therefore when those that have power and knowledge and wealth talk together i sit in the shadow. why not. 
yet all my wandering have show me one sure thing which be that a king without money be like a spear without a head. he cannot do much harm. i say therefore to elia of bury a great one among our people. why do our people lend any more to the king that oppress u. because say elia if we refuse they stir up their people against u and the people be tenfold more cruel than king. if thou doubtest come with me to bury in england and live a i live. 
i saw my mother s face across the candle flame and i say i will come with thee to bury. maybe my kingdom shall be there. 
so i sail with elia to the darkness and the cruelty of bury in england where there be no learn men. how can a man be wise if he hate. at bury i keep his account for elia and i saw men kill jew there by the tower. no none lay hand on elia. he lend money to the king and the king s favour be about him. a king will not take the life so long a there be any gold. this king yes john oppress his people bitterly because they would not give him money. yet his land be a good land. if he have only give it rest he might have crop it a a christian crop his beard. but even that little he do not know for god have deprive him of all understand and have multiply pestilence and famine and despair upon the people. therefore his people turn against u jew who be all people s dog. why not. lastly the baron and the people rise together against the king because of his cruelty. nay nay the baron do not love the people but they saw that if the king cut up and destroy the common people he would presently destroy the baron. they join then a cat and pig will join to slay a snake. i keep the account and i watch all these thing for i remember the prophecy. 
a great gather of baron. to most of whom we have lend money. come to bury and there after much talk and a thousand running about they make a roll of the new law that they would force on the king. if he swear to keep those law they would allow him a little money. that be the king s god money to waste. they show u the roll of the new law. why not. we have lend them money. we know all their counsel we jew shiver behind our door in bury. he throw out his hand suddenly. we do not seek to be pay all in money. we seek power power power. that be our god in our captivity. power to use. 
i say to elia. these new law be good. lend no more money to the king. so long a he ha money he will lie and slay the people. 
nay say elia. i know this people. they be madly cruel. good one king than a thousand butcher. i have lend a little money to the baron or they would torture u but my most i will lend to the king. he hath promise me a place near him at court where my wife and i shall be safe. 
but if the king be make to keep these new law i say the land will have peace and our trade will grow. if we lend he will fight again. 
who make thee a lawgiver in england. say elia. i know this people. let the dog tear one another. i will lend the king ten thousand piece of gold and he can fight the baron at his pleasure. 
there be not two thousand piece of gold in all england this summer i say for i keep the account and i know how the earth s gold move that wonderful underground river. elia bar home the window and his hand about his mouth he tell me how when he be trade with small ware in a french ship he have come to the castle of pevensey. 
oh. say dan. pevensey again. and look at una who nod and skip. 
there after they have scatter his pack up and down the great hall some young knight carry him to an upper room and drop him into a well in a wall that rise and fell with the tide. they call him joseph and throw torch at his wet head. why not. 
why of course. cry dan. didn t you know it be puck hold up his hand to stop him and kadmiel who never notice go on. 
when the tide drop he think he stand on old armour but feel with his toe he rake up bar on bar of soft gold. some wicked treasure of the old day put away and the secret cut off by the sword. i have hear the like before. 
so have we una whisper. but it wasn t wicked a bite. 
elia take a little of the stuff with him and thrice yearly he would return to pevensey a a chapman sell at no price or profit till they suffer him to sleep in the empty room where he would plumb and grope and steal away a few bar. the great store of it still remain and by long brood he have come to look on it a his own. yet when we think how we should lift and convey it we saw no way. this be before the word of the lord have come to me. a wall fortress possess by norman. in the midst a forty foot tide well out of which to remove secretly many horse load of gold. hopeless. so elia weep. adah his wife weep too. she have hop to stand beside the queen s christian tire maid at court when the king should give them that place at court which he have promise. why not. she be bear in england an odious woman. 
the present evil to u be that elia out of his strong folly have a it be promise the king that he would arm him with more gold. wherefore the king in his camp stop his ear against the baron and the people. wherefore men die daily. adah so desire her place at court she beseech elia to tell the king where the treasure lay that the king might take it by force and they would trust in his gratitude. why not. this elia refuse to do for he look on the gold a his own. they quarrel and they weep at the even meal and late in the night come one langton a priest almost learn to borrow more money for the baron. elia and adah go to their chamber. 
kadmiel laugh scornfully in his beard. the shot across the valley stop a the shoot party change their grind for the last beat. 
so it be i not elia he go on quietly that make term with langton touch the fortieth of the new law. 
what term. say puck quickly. the fortieth of the great charter say. to none will we sell refuse or delay right or justice. 
true but the baron have write first. to no free man. it cost me two hundred broad piece of gold to change those narrow word. langton the priest understand. jew though thou art say he the change be just and if ever christian and jew come to be equal in england thy people may thank thee. then he go out stealthily a men do who deal with israel by night. i think he spend my gift upon his altar. why not. i have speak with langton. he be such a man a i might have be if if we jew have be a people. but yet in many thing a child. 
i hear elia and adah abovestairs quarrel and know the woman be the strong i saw that elia would tell the king of the gold and that the king would continue in his stubbornness. therefore i saw that the gold must be put away from the reach of any man. of a sudden the word of the lord come to me say the morning be come o thou that dwellest in the land. 
kadmiel halt all black against the pale green sky beyond the wood a huge rob figure like the moses in the picture bible. 
i rise. i go out and a i shut the door on that house of foolishness the woman look from the window and whisper i have prevail on my husband to tell the king. i answer. there be no need. the lord be with me. 
in that hour the lord give me full understand of all that i must do. and his hand cover me in my way. first i go to london to a physician of our people who sell me certain drug that i need. you shall see why. thence i go swiftly to pevensey. men fight all around me for there be neither ruler nor judge in the abominable land. yet when i walk by them they cry out that i be one ahasuerus a jew condemn a they believe to live for ever and they flee from me everyways. thus the lord save me for my work and at pevensey i buy me a little boat and moor it on the mud beneath the marsh gate of the castle. that also god show me. 
he be a calm a though he be speak of some strange and his voice fill the little bare wood with roll music. 
i cast his hand go to his breast and again the strange jewel gleam i cast the drug which i have prepare into the common well of the castle. nay i do no harm. the more we physician know the le do we do. only the fool say. i dare. i cause a blotch and itch rash to break out upon their skin but i know it would fade in fifteen day. i do not stretch out my hand against their life. they in the castle think it be the plague and they run out take with them their very dog. 
a christian physician see that i be a jew and a strange vow that i have bring the sickness from london. this be the one time i have ever hear a christian leech speak truth of any disease. thereupon the people beat me but a merciful woman say. do not kill him now. push him into our castle with his plague and if a he say it will abate on the fifteenth day we can kill him then. why not. they drive me across the drawbridge of the castle and flee back to their booth. thus i come to be alone with the treasure. 
but do you know this be all go to happen just right. say una. 
my prophecy be that i should be a lawgiver to a people of a strange land and a hard speech. i know i should not die. i wash my cut. i find the tide well in the wall and from sabbath to sabbath i dive and dig there in that empty christian smell fortress. hé. i spoil the egyptian. hé. if they have only know. i draw up many good load of gold which i load by night into my boat. there have be gold dust too but that have be wash out by the tide. 
didn t you ever wonder who have put it there. say dan steal a glance at puck s calm dark face under the hood of his gown. puck shake his head and purse his lip. 
often. for the gold be new to me kadmiel reply. i know the gold. i can judge them in the dark. but this be heavy and red than any we deal in. perhaps it be the very gold of parvaim. eh why not. it go to my heart to heave it on to the mud but i saw well that if the evil thing remain or if even the hope of find it remain the king would not sign the new law and the land would perish. 
oh marvel. say puck beneath his breath rustle in the dead leaf. 
when the boat be load i wash my hand seven time and par beneath my nail for i would not keep one grain. i go out by the little gate where the castle s refuse be throw. i dare not hoist sail l men should see me. but the lord command the tide to bear me carefully and i be far from land before the morning. 
weren t you afraid. say una. 
why. there be no christian in the boat. at sunrise i make my prayer and cast the gold all all that gold into the deep sea. a king s ransom no the ransom of a people. when i have loose hold of the last bar the lord command the tide to return me to a haven at the mouth of a river and thence i walk across a wilderness to lewes where i have brother. they open the door to me and they say i have not eat for two day they say that i fell across the threshold cry. i have sink an army with horseman in the sea. 
but you hadn t say una. oh yes. i see. you mean that king john might have spend it on that. 
even so say kadmiel. 
the fire break out again close behind them. the pheasant pour over the top of a belt of tall fir. they could see young mr meyer in his new yellow gaiter very busy and excite at the end of the line and they could hear the thud of the fall bird. 
but what do elia of bury do. puck demand. he have promise money to the king. 
kadmiel smile grimly. i send him word from london that the lord be on my side. when he hear that the plague have break out in pevensey and that a jew have be thrust into the castle to cure it he understand my word be true. he and adah hurry to lewes and ask me for an account. he still look on the gold a his own. i tell them where i have lay it and i give them full leave to pick it up. eh well. the curse of a fool and the dust of a journey be two thing no wise man can escape. but i pity elia. the king be wroth with him because he could not lend. the baron be wroth too because they hear that he would have lend to the king. and adah be wroth with him because she be an odious woman. they take ship from lewes to spain. that be wise. 
and you. do you see the sign of the law at runnymede. say puck a kadmiel laugh noiselessly. 
nay. who be i to meddle with thing too high for me. i return to bury and lend money on the autumn crop. why not. 
there be a crackle overhead. a cock pheasant that have sheer aside after be hit spatter down almost on top of them drive up the dry leaf like a shell. flora and folly throw themselves at it. the child rush forward and when they have beat them off and smooth down the plumage kadmiel have disappear. 
well say puck calmly what do you think of it. weland give the sword. the sword give the treasure and the treasure give the law. it s a natural a an oak grow. 
i don t understand. didn t he know it be sir richard s old treasure. say dan. and why do sir richard and brother hugh leave it lie about. and and. 
never mind say una politely. he ll let u come and go and look and know another time. win t you puck. 
another time maybe puck answer. brr. it s cold and late. i ll race you towards home. 
they hurry down into the shelter valley. the sun have almost sink behind cherry clack the tread grind by the cattle gate be freeze at the edge and the new wake north wind blow the night on them from over the hill. they pick up their foot and fly across the brown pasture and when they halt pant in the steam of their own breath the dead leaf whirl up behind them. there be oak and ash and thorn enough in that year end shower to magic away a thousand memory. 
so they trot to the brook at the bottom of the lawn wonder why flora and folly have miss the quarry hole fox. 
old hobden be just finish some hedge work. they saw his white smock glimmer in the twilight where he faggot the rubbish. 
winter he s come i reckon mu dan he call. hard time now till heffle cuckoo fair. yes we ll all be glad to see the old woman let the cuckoo out o the basket for to start lawful spring in england. 
they hear a crash and a stamp and a splash of water a though a heavy old cow be cross almost under their nose. 
hobden run forward angrily to the ford. 
gleason s bull again playin robin all over the farm. oh look mu dan his great footmark a big a a trencher. no bound to his impidence. he might count himself to be a man or or somebody. 
a voice the other side of the brook boom. 
i wonder who his cloak would turn when puck have lead him round or where those walk fire would burn. 
then the child go in sing farewell reward and fairy at the top of their voice. they have forget that they have not even say good night to puck. 
the child s song. 
land of our birth we pledge to thee our love and toil in the year to be. when we be grow and take our place a men and woman with our race. 
father in heaven who lovest all oh help thy child when they call. that they may build from age to age an undefiled heritage. 
teach u to bear the yoke in youth with steadfastness and careful truth. that in our time thy grace may give the truth whereby the nation live. 
teach u to rule ourselves alway control and cleanly night and day. that we may bring if need arise no maim or worthless sacrifice. 
teach u to look in all our end on thee for judge and not our friend. that we with thee may walk uncowed by fear or favour of the crowd. 
teach u the strength that cannot seek by deed or think to hurt the weak. that under thee we may posse man s strength to comfort man s distress. 
teach u delight in simple thing and mirth that ha no bitter spring. forgiveness free of evil do and love to all men neath the sun. 
land of our birth our faith our pride for whose dear sake our father die. o motherland we pledge to thee head heart and hand through the year to be. 
