the phantom rickshaw and other ghost story. 
by rudyard kipling. 
* * * * *. 
the phantom rickshaw my own true ghost story the strange ride of morrowbie juke the man who would be king the fine story in the world. 
* * * * *. 
the phantom rickshaw. 
may no ill dream disturb my rest nor power of darkness me molest. even hymn. 
one of the few advantage that india ha over england be a great knowability. after five year service a man be directly or indirectly acquaint with the two or three hundred civilian in his province all the mess of ten or twelve regiment and battery and some fifteen hundred other people of the non official caste. in ten year his knowledge should be double and at the end of twenty he know or know something about every englishman in the empire and may travel anywhere and everywhere without pay hotel bill. 
globe trotter who expect entertainment a a right have even within my memory blunt this open heartedness but none the le to day if you belong to the inner circle and be neither a bear nor a black sheep all house be open to you and our small world be very very kind and helpful. 
rickett of kamartha stay with polder of kumaon some fifteen year ago. he mean to stay two night but be knock down by rheumatic fever and for six week disorganize polder s establishment stop polder s work and nearly die in polder s bedroom. polder behave a though he have be place under eternal obligation by rickett and yearly send the little ricketts a box of present and toy. it be the same everywhere. the men who do not take the trouble to conceal from you their opinion that you be an incompetent as and the woman who blacken your character and misunderstand your wife s amusement will work themselves to the bone in your behalf if you fall sick or into serious trouble. 
heatherlegh the doctor keep in addition to his regular practice a hospital on his private account an arrangement of loose box for incurable his friend call it but it be really a sort of fit up shed for craft that have be damage by stress of weather. the weather in india be often sultry and since the tale of brick be always a fix quantity and the only liberty allow be permission to work overtime and get no thank men occasionally break down and become a mix a the metaphor in this sentence. 
heatherlegh be the dear doctor that ever be and his invariable prescription to all his patient be lie low go slow and keep cool. he say that more men be kill by overwork than the importance of this world justify. he maintain that overwork slew pansay who die under his hand about three year ago. he ha of course the right to speak authoritatively and he laugh at my theory that there be a crack in pansay s head and a little bite of the dark world come through and press him to death. pansay go off the handle say heatherlegh after the stimulus of long leave at home. he may or he may not have behave like a blackguard to mr. keith wessington. my notion be that the work of the katabundi settlement run him off his leg and that he take to brood and make much of an ordinary p. & o. flirtation. he certainly be engage to miss mannering and she certainly break off the engagement. then he take a feverish chill and all that nonsense about ghost develop. overwork start his illness keep it alight and kill him poor devil. write him off to the system one man to take the work of two and a half men. 
i do not believe this. i use to sit up with pansay sometimes when heatherlegh be call out to patient and i happen to be within claim. the man would make me most unhappy by describe in a low even voice the procession that be always pass at the bottom of his bed. he have a sick man s command of language. when he recover i suggest that he should write out the whole affair from begin to end know that ink might assist him to ease his mind. when little boy have learn a new bad word they be never happy till they have chalk it up on a door. and this also be literature. 
he be in a high fever while he be write and the blood and thunder magazine diction he adopt do not calm him. two month afterward he be report fit for duty but in spite of the fact that he be urgently need to help an undermanned commission stagger through a deficit he prefer to die. vow at the last that he be hag ride. i get his manuscript before he die and this be his version of the affair date. 
my doctor tell me that i need rest and change of air. it be not improbable that i shall get both ere long rest that neither the red coat messenger nor the midday gun can break and change of air far beyond that which any homeward bind steamer can give me. in the meantime i be resolve to stay where i be. and in flat defiance of my doctor s order to take all the world into my confidence. you shall learn for yourselves the precise nature of my malady. and shall too judge for yourselves whether any man bear of woman on this weary earth be ever so torment a i. 
speak now a a condemn criminal might speak ere the drop bolt be draw my story wild and hideously improbable a it may appear demand at least attention. that it will ever receive credence i utterly disbelieve. two month ago i should have scout a mad or drink the man who have dare tell me the like. two month ago i be the happy man in india. today from peshawur to the sea there be no one more wretched. my doctor and i be the only two who know this. his explanation be that my brain digestion and eyesight be all slightly affect. give rise to my frequent and persistent delusion. delusion indeed. i call him a fool. but he attend me still with the same unwearied smile the same bland professional manner the same neatly trim red whisker till i begin to suspect that i be an ungrateful evil temper invalid. but you shall judge for your self. 
three year ago it be my fortune my great misfortune to sail from gravesend to bombay on return from long leave with one agnes keith wessington wife of an officer on the bombay side. it doe not in the least concern you to know what manner of woman she be. be content with the knowledge that ere the voyage have end both she and i be desperately and unreasoningly in love with one another. heaven know that i can make the admission now without one particle of vanity. in matter of this sort there be always one who give and another who accept. from the first day of our ill omen attachment i be conscious that agnes s passion be a strong a more dominant and if i may use the expression a pure sentiment than mine. whether she recognize the fact then i do not know. afterward it be bitterly plain to both of u. 
arrive at bombay in the spring of the year we go our respective way to meet no more for the next three or four month when my leave and her love take u both to simla. there we spend the season together. and there my fire of straw burn itself out to a pitiful end with the close year. i attempt no excuse. i make no apology. mr. wessington have give up much for my sake and be prepare to give up all. from my own lip in august she learn that i be sick of her presence tire of her company and weary of the sound of her voice. ninety nine woman out of a hundred would have weary of me a i weary of them. seventy five of that number would have promptly avenge themselves by active and obtrusive flirtation with other men. mr. wessington be the hundredth. on her neither my openly express aversion nor the cut brutality with which i garnish our interview have the least effect. 
jack darling. be her one eternal cuckoo cry. i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. and we ll be good friend again some day. please forgive me jack dear. 
i be the offender and i know it. that knowledge transform my pity into passive endurance and eventually into blind hate the same instinct i suppose which prompt a man to savagely stamp on the spider he ha but half kill. and with this hate in my bosom the season of come to an end. 
next year we meet again at simla she with her monotonous face and timid attempt at reconciliation and i with loathe of her in every fibre of my frame. several time i could not avoid meet her alone. and on each occasion her word be identically the same. still the unreasoning wail that it be all a mistake. and still the hope of eventually make friend. i might have see have i care to look that that hope only be keep her alive. she grow more wan and thin month by month. you will agree with me at least that such conduct would have drive any one to despair. it be uncalled for. childish. unwomanly. i maintain that she be much to blame. and again sometimes in the black fever stricken night watch i have begin to think that i might have be a little kind to her. but that really be a delusion. i could not have continue pretend to love her when i didn t. could i. it would have be unfair to u both. 
last year we meet again on the same term a before. the same weary appeal and the same curt answer from my lip. at least i would make her see how wholly wrong and hopeless be her attempt at resume the old relationship. a the season wear on we fell apart that be to say she find it difficult to meet me for i have other and more absorb interest to attend to. when i think it over quietly in my sick room the season of seem a confuse nightmare wherein light and shade be fantastically intermingle my courtship of little kitty mannering. my hope doubt and fear. our long ride together. my tremble avowal of attachment. her reply. and now and again a vision of a white face flit by in the rickshaw with the black and white livery i once watch for so earnestly. the wave of mr. wessington s gloved hand. and when she meet me alone which be but seldom the irksome monotony of her appeal. i love kitty mannering. honestly heartily love her and with my love for her grow my hatred for agnes. in august kitty and i be engage. the next day i meet those accurse magpie jhampanies at the back of jakko and move by some pass sentiment of pity stop to tell mr. wessington everything. she know it already. 
so i hear you re engage jack dear. then without a moment s pause. i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. we shall be a good friend some day jack a we ever be. 
my answer might have make even a man wince. it cut the die woman before me like the blow of a whip. please forgive me jack. i didn t mean to make you angry. but it s true it s true. 
and mr. wessington break down completely. i turn away and leave her to finish her journey in peace feel but only for a moment or two that i have be an unutterably mean hound. i look back and saw that she have turn her rickshaw with the idea i suppose of overtake me. 
the scene and it surround be photograph on my memory. the rain sweep sky. we be at the end of the wet weather. the sodden dingy pine the muddy road and the black powder rive cliff form a gloomy background against which the black and white livery of the jhampanies_ the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. wessington s down bow golden head stand out clearly. she be hold her handkerchief in her leave hand and be lean hack exhaust against the rickshaw cushion. i turn my horse up a bypath near the sanjowlie reservoir and literally run away. once i fancy i hear a faint call of jack. this may have be imagination. i never stop to verify it. ten minute late i come across kitty on horseback. and in the delight of a long ride with her forget all about the interview. 
a week late mr. wessington die and the inexpressible burden of her existence be remove from my life. i go plainsward perfectly happy. before three month be over i have forget all about her except that at time the discovery of some of her old letter remind me unpleasantly of our bygone relationship. by january i have disinter what be leave of our correspondence from among my scatter belonging and have burn it. at the begin of april of this year i be at simla semi desert simla once more and be deep in lover s talk and walk with kitty. it be decide that we should be marry at the end of june. you will understand therefore that love kitty a i do i be not say too much when i pronounce myself to have be at that time the happy man in india. 
fourteen delightful day pass almost before i notice their flight. then arouse to the sense of what be proper among mortal circumstanced a we be i point out to kitty that an engagement ring be the outward and visible sign of her dignity a an engage girl. and that she must forthwith come to hamilton s to be measure for one. up to that moment i give you my word we have completely forget so trivial a matter. to hamilton s we accordingly go on the th of april. remember that whatever my doctor may say to the contrary i be then in perfect health enjoy a well balance mind and an absolute tranquil spirit. kitty and i enter hamilton s shop together and there regardless of the order of affair i measure kitty for the ring in the presence of the amuse assistant. the ring be a sapphire with two diamond. we then ride out down the slope that lead to the combermere bridge and peliti s shop. 
while my waler be cautiously feel his way over the loose shale and kitty be laugh and chatter at my side while all simla that be to say a much of it a have then come from the plain be group round the read room and peliti s veranda i be aware that some one apparently at a vast distance be call me by my christian name. it strike me that i have hear the voice before but when and where i could not at once determine. in the short space it take to cover the road between the path from hamilton s shop and the first plank of the combermere bridge i have think over half a dozen people who might have commit such a solecism and have eventually decide that it must have be sing in my ear. immediately opposite peliti s shop my eye be arrest by the sight of four jhampanies in magpie livery pull a yellow panel cheap bazar rickshaw. in a moment my mind fly back to the previous season and mr. wessington with a sense of irritation and disgust. be it not enough that the woman be dead and do with without her black and white servitor reappear to spoil the day s happiness. whoever employ them now i think i would call upon and ask a a personal favor to change her jhampanies livery. i would hire the men myself and if necessary buy their coat from off their back. it be impossible to say here what a flood of undesirable memory their presence evoke. 
kitty i cry there be poor mr. wessington s jhampanies turn up again. i wonder who ha them now. 
kitty have know mr. wessington slightly last season and have always be interest in the sickly woman. 
what. where. she ask. i can t see them anywhere. 
even a she speak her horse swerve from a lade mule throw himself directly in front of the advance rickshaw. i have scarcely time to utter a word of warn when to my unutterable horror horse and rider pass through men and carriage a if they have be thin air. 
what s the matter. cry kitty. what make you call out so foolishly jack. if i be engage i don t want all creation to know about it. there be lot of space between the mule and the veranda. and if you think i can t ride there. 
whereupon wilful kitty set off her dainty little head in the air at a hand gallop in the direction of the bandstand. fully expect a she herself afterward tell me that i should follow her. what be the matter. nothing indeed. either that i be mad or drink or that simla be haunt with devil. i rein in my impatient cob and turn round. the rickshaw have turn too and now stand immediately face me near the leave rail of the combermere bridge. 
jack. jack darling. there be no mistake about the word this time. they ring through my brain a if they have be shout in my ear. it s some hideous mistake i m sure. please forgive me jack and let s be friend again. 
the rickshaw hood have fall back and inside a i hope and pray daily for the death i dread by night sit mr. keith wessington handkerchief in hand and golden head bow on her breast. 
how long i star motionless i do not know. finally i be arouse by my syce take the waler s bridle and ask whether i be ill. from the horrible to the commonplace be but a step. i tumble off my horse and dash half faint into peliti s for a glass of cherry brandy. there two or three couple be gather round the coffee table discuss the gossip of the day. their triviality be more comfort to me just then than the consolation of religion could have be. i plunge into the midst of the conversation at once. chat laugh and jest with a face. when i catch a glimpse of it in a mirror. a white and draw a that of a corpse. three or four men notice my condition. and evidently set it down to the result of over many peg charitably endeavour to draw me apart from the rest of the lounger. but i refuse to be lead away. i want the company of my kind a a child rush into the midst of the dinner party after a fright in the dark. i must have talk for about ten minute or so though it seem an eternity to me when i hear kitty s clear voice outside inquire for me. in another minute she have enter the shop prepare to roundly upbraid me for fail so signally in my duty. something in my face stop her. 
why jack she cry what have you be do. what ha happen. be you ill. thus drive into a direct lie i say that the sun have be a little too much for me. it be close upon five o clock of a cloudy april afternoon and the sun have be hide all day. i saw my mistake a soon a the word be out of my mouth. attempt to recover it. blunder hopelessly and follow kitty in a regal rage out of door amid the smile of my acquaintance. i make some excuse. i have forget what. on the score of my feel faint. and canter away to my hotel leave kitty to finish the ride by herself. 
in my room i sit down and try calmly to reason out the matter. here be i theobald jack pansay a well educate bengal civilian in the year of grace presumably sane certainly healthy drive in terror from my sweetheart s side by the apparition of a woman who have be dead and bury eight month ago. these be fact that i could not blink. nothing be further from my think than any memory of mr. wessington when kitty and i leave hamilton s shop. nothing be more utterly commonplace than the stretch of wall opposite peliti s. it be broad daylight. the road be full of people. and yet here look you in defiance of every law of probability in direct outrage of nature s ordinance there have appear to me a face from the grave. 
kitty s arab have go through the rickshaw. so that my first hope that some woman marvelously like mr. wessington have hire the carriage and the cooly with their old livery be lose. again and again i go round this treadmill of think. and again and again give up baffle and in despair. the voice be a inexplicable a the apparition. i have originally some wild notion of confide it all to kitty. of beg her to marry me at once. and in her arm defy the ghostly occupant of the rickshaw. after all i argue the presence of the rickshaw be in itself enough to prove the existence of a spectral illusion. one may see ghost of men and woman but surely never of cooly and carriage. the whole thing be absurd. fancy the ghost of a hillman. 
next morning i send a penitent note to kitty implore her to overlook my strange conduct of the previous afternoon. my divinity be still very wroth and a personal apology be necessary. i explain with a fluency bear of night long ponder over a falsehood that i have be attack with sudden palpitation of the heart the result of indigestion. this eminently practical solution have it effect. and kitty and i ride out that afternoon with the shadow of my first lie divide u. 
nothing would please her save a canter round jakko. with my nerve still unstring from the previous night i feebly protest against the notion suggest observatory hill jutogh the boileaugunge road anything rather than the jakko round. kitty be angry and a little hurt. so i yield from fear of provoke further misunderstand and we set out together toward chota simla. we walk a great part of the way and accord to our custom canter from a mile or so below the convent to the stretch of level road by the sanjowlie reservoir. the wretched horse appear to fly and my heart beat quick and quick a we near the crest of the ascent. my mind have be full of mr. wessington all the afternoon. and every inch of the jakko road bore witness to our oldtime walk and talk. the bowlder be full of it. the pine sing it aloud overhead. the rain feed torrent giggle and chuckle unseen over the shameful story. and the wind in my ear chant the iniquity aloud. 
a a fit climax in the middle of the level men call the lady mile the horror be await me. no other rickshaw be in sight only the four black and white jhampanies_ the yellow panel carriage and the golden head of the woman within all apparently just a i have leave them eight month and one fortnight ago. for an instant i fancy that kitty must see what i saw we be so marvelously sympathetic in all thing. her next word undeceive me not a soul in sight. come along jack and i ll race you to the reservoir building. her wiry little arab be off like a bird my waler follow close behind and in this order we dash under the cliff. half a minute bring u within fifty yard of the rickshaw. i pull my waler and fell back a little. the rickshaw be directly in the middle of the road. and once more the arab pass through it my horse follow. jack. jack dear. please forgive me ring with a wail in my ear and after an interval. it s a mistake a hideous mistake. 
i spur my horse like a man possess. when i turn my head at the reservoir work the black and white livery be still wait patiently wait under the grey hillside and the wind bring me a mock echo of the word i have just hear. kitty banter me a good deal on my silence throughout the remainder of the ride. i have be talk up till then wildly and at random. to save my life i could not speak afterward naturally and from sanjowlie to the church wisely hold my tongue. 
i be to dine with the mannerings that night and have barely time to canter home to dress. on the road to elysium hill i overhear two men talk together in the dusk. it s a curious thing say one how completely all trace of it disappear. you know my wife be insanely fond of the woman. never could see anything in her myself. and want me to pick up her old rickshaw and cooly if they be to be get for love or money. morbid sort of fancy i call it. but i ve get to do what the memsahib tell me. would you believe that the man she hire it from tell me that all four of the men they be brother die of cholera on the way to hardwar poor devil and the rickshaw ha be break up by the man himself. tell me he never use a dead memsahib s rickshaw. spoil his luck. queer notion wasn t it. fancy poor little mr. wessington spoil any one s luck except her own. i laugh aloud at this point. and my laugh jar on me a i utter it. so there be ghost of rickshaw after all and ghostly employment in the other world. how much do mr. wessington give her men. what be their hour. where do they go. 
and for visible answer to my last question i saw the infernal thing block my path in the twilight. the dead travel fast and by short cut unknown to ordinary cooly. i laugh aloud a second time and check my laughter suddenly for i be afraid i be go mad. mad to a certain extent i must have be for i recollect that i rein in my horse at the head of the rickshaw and politely wish mr. wessington good even. her answer be one i know only too well. i listen to the end. and reply that i have hear it all before but should be delight if she have anything further to say. some malignant devil strong than i must have enter into me that even for i have a dim recollection of talk the commonplace of the day for five minute to the thing in front of me. 
mad a a hatter poor devil or drink. max try and get him to come home. 
surely that be not mr. wessington s voice. the two men have overhear me speak to the empty air and have return to look after me. they be very kind and considerate and from their word evidently gather that i be extremely drink. i thank them confusedly and canter away to my hotel there change and arrive at the mannerings ten minute late. i plead the darkness of the night a an excuse. be rebuke by kitty for my unlover like tardiness. and sit down. 
the conversation have already become general. and under cover of it i be address some tender small talk to my sweetheart when i be aware that at the further end of the table a short red whisker man be describe with much broidery his encounter with a mad unknown that even. 
a few sentence convince me that he be repeat the incident of half an hour ago. in the middle of the story he look round for applause a professional story teller do catch my eye and straightway collapse. there be a moment s awkward silence and the red whisker man mutter something to the effect that he have forget the rest thereby sacrifice a reputation a a good story teller which he have build up for six season past. i bless him from the bottom of my heart and go on with my fish. 
in the fulness of time that dinner come to an end. and with genuine regret i tear myself away from kitty a certain a i be of my own existence that it would be wait for me outside the door. the red whisker man who have be introduce to me a doctor heatherlegh of simla volunteer to bear me company a far a our road lay together. i accept his offer with gratitude. 
my instinct have not deceive me. it lay in readiness in the mall and in what seem devilish mockery of our way with a light head lamp. the red whisker man go to the point at once in a manner that show he have be think over it all dinner time. 
i say pansay what the deuce be the matter with you this even on the elysium road. the suddenness of the question wrench an answer from me before i be aware. 
that. say i point to it. 
_that may be either d. t. or eye for aught i know. now you don t liquor. i saw a much at dinner so it can t be d. t. there s nothing whatever where you re point though you re sweat and tremble with fright like a scar pony. therefore i conclude that it s eye. and i ought to understand all about them. come along home with me. i m on the blessington low road. 
to my intense delight the rickshaw instead of wait for u keep about twenty yard ahead and this too whether we walk trot or canter. in the course of that long night ride i have tell my companion almost a much a i have tell you here. 
well you ve spoil one of the best tale i ve ever lay tongue to say he but i ll forgive you for the sake of what you ve go through. now come home and do what i tell you. and when i ve cure you young man let this be a lesson to you to steer clear of woman and indigestible food till the day of your death. 
the rickshaw keep steady in front. and my red whisker friend seem to derive great pleasure from my account of it exact whereabouts. 
eye pansay all eye brain and stomach. and the great of these three be stomach. you ve too much conceited brain too little stomach and thoroughly unhealthy eye. get your stomach straight and the rest follow. and all that s french for a liver pill. i ll take sole medical charge of you from this hour. for you re too interest a phenomenon to be pass over. 
by this time we be deep in the shadow of the blessington low road and the rickshaw come to a dead stop under a pine clothe over hang shale cliff. instinctively i halt too give my reason. heatherlegh rap out an oath. 
now if you think i m go to spend a cold night on the hillside for the sake of a stomach cum brain cum eye illusion. lord ha mercy. what s that. 
there be a muffle report a blind smother of dust just in front of u a crack the noise of rent bough and about ten yard of the cliff side pine undergrowth and all slide down into the road below completely block it up. the uproot tree sway and totter for a moment like drunken giant in the gloom and then fell prone among their fellow with a thunderous crash. our two horse stand motionless and sweat with fear. a soon a the rattle of fall earth and stone have subside my companion mutter. man if we d go forward we should have be ten foot deep in our graf by now. there be more thing in heaven and earth. come home pansay and thank god. i want a peg badly. 
we retrace our way over the church ridge and i arrive at dr. heatherlegh s house shortly after midnight. 
his attempt toward my cure commence almost immediately and for a week i never leave his sight. many a time in the course of that week do i bless the good fortune which have throw me in contact with simla s best and kind doctor. day by day my spirit grow light and more equable. day by day too i become more and more incline to fall in with heatherlegh s spectral illusion theory implicate eye brain and stomach. i write to kitty tell her that a slight sprain cause by a fall from my horse keep me indoors for a few day. and that i should be recover before she have time to regret my absence. 
heatherlegh s treatment be simple to a degree. it consist of liver pill cold water bath and strong exercise take in the dusk or at early dawn for a he sagely observe. a man with a sprain ankle doesn t walk a dozen mile a day and your young woman might be wonder if she saw you. 
at the end of the week after much examination of pupil and pulse and strict injunction a to diet and pedestrianism heatherlegh dismiss me a brusquely a he have take charge of me. here be his part benediction. man i can certify to your mental cure and that s a much a to say i ve cure most of your bodily ailment. now get your trap out of this a soon a you can. and be off to make love to miss kitty. 
i be endeavor to express my thank for his kindness. he cut me short. 
don t think i do this because i like you. i gather that you ve behave like a blackguard all through. but all the same you re a phenomenon and a queer a phenomenon a you be a blackguard. no. check me a second time not a rupee please. go out and see if you can find the eye brain and stomach business again. i ll give you a lakh for each time you see it. 
half an hour late i be in the mannerings draw room with kitty drink with the intoxication of present happiness and the fore knowledge that i should never more be trouble with it hideous presence. strong in the sense of my new find security i propose a ride at once. and by preference a canter round jakko. 
never have i felt so well so overladen with vitality and mere animal spirit a i do on the afternoon of the th of april. kitty be delight at the change in my appearance and compliment me on it in her delightfully frank and outspoken manner. we leave the mannerings house together laugh and talk and canter along the chota simla road a of old. 
i be in haste to reach the sanjowlie reservoir and there make my assurance doubly sure. the horse do their best but seem all too slow to my impatient mind. kitty be astonish at my boisterousness. why jack. she cry at last you be behave like a child. what be you do. 
we be just below the convent and from sheer wantonness i be make my waler plunge and curvet across the road a i tickle it with the loop of my rid whip. 
do. i answer. nothing dear. that s just it. if you d be do nothing for a week except lie up you d be a riotous a i. 
sing and murmur in your feastful mirth joy to feel yourself alive. lord over nature lord of the visible earth lord of the sens five. 
my quotation be hardly out of my lip before we have round the corner above the convent. and a few yard further on could see across to sanjowlie. in the centre of the level road stand the black and white livery the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. keith wessington. i pull up look rub my eye and i believe must have say something. the next thing i know be that i be lie face downward on the road with kitty kneel above me in tear. 
ha it go child. i gasp. kitty only weep more bitterly. 
ha what go jack dear. what doe it all mean. there must be a mistake somewhere jack. a hideous mistake. her last word bring me to my foot mad rave for the time be. 
yes there be a mistake somewhere i repeat a hideous mistake. come and look at it. 
i have an indistinct idea that i drag kitty by the wrist along the road up to where it stand and implore her for pity s sake to speak to it. to tell it that we be betroth. that neither death nor hell could break the tie between u. and kitty only know how much more to the same effect. now and again i appeal passionately to the terror in the rickshaw to bear witness to all i have say and to release me from a torture that be kill me. a i talk i suppose i must have tell kitty of my old relation with mr. wessington for i saw her listen intently with white face and blaze eye. 
thank you mr. pansay she say that s quite enough. syce ghora láo. 
the syces impassive a oriental always be have come up with the recapture horse. and a kitty spring into her saddle i catch hold of the bridle entreat her to hear me out and forgive. my answer be the cut of her rid whip across my face from mouth to eye and a word or two of farewell that even now i cannot write down. so i judge and judge rightly that kitty know all. and i stagger back to the side of the rickshaw. my face be cut and bleed and the blow of the rid whip have raise a livid blue wheal on it. i have no self respect. just then heatherlegh who must have be follow kitty and me at a distance canter up. 
doctor i say point to my face here s miss mannering s signature to my order of dismissal and. i ll thank you for that lakh a soon a convenient. 
heatherlegh s face even in my abject misery move me to laughter. 
i ll stake my professional reputation he begin. 
don t be a fool i whisper. i ve lose my life s happiness and you d good take me home. 
a i speak the rickshaw be go. then i lose all knowledge of what be pass. the crest of jakko seem to heave and roll like the crest of a cloud and fall in upon me. 
seven day late. on the th of may that be to say. i be aware that i be lie in heatherlegh s room a weak a a little child. heatherlegh be watch me intently from behind the paper on his write table. his first word be not encourage. but i be too far spend to be much move by them. 
here s miss kitty ha send back your letter. you correspond a good deal you young people. here s a packet that look like a ring and a cheerful sort of a note from mannering papa which i ve take the liberty of read and burn. the old gentleman s not please with you. 
and kitty. i ask dully. 
rather more draw than her father from what she say. by the same token you must have be let out any number of queer reminiscence just before i meet you. say that a man who would have behave to a woman a you do to mr. wessington ought to kill himself out of sheer pity for his kind. she s a hot head little virago your mash. will have it too that you be suffer from d. t. when that row on the jakko road turn up. say she ll die before she ever speak to you again. 
i groan and turn over to the other side. 
now you ve get your choice my friend. this engagement ha to be break off. and the mannerings don t want to be too hard on you. be it break through d. t. or epileptic fit. sorry i can t offer you a good exchange unless you d prefer hereditary insanity. say the word and i ll tell em it s fit. all simla know about that scene on the lady mile. come. i ll give you five minute to think over it. 
during those five minute i believe that i explore thoroughly the low circle of the inferno which it be permit man to tread on earth. and at the same time i myself be watch myself falter through the dark labyrinth of doubt misery and utter despair. i wonder a heatherlegh in his chair might have wonder which dreadful alternative i should adopt. presently i hear myself answer in a voice that i hardly recognize. 
they re confoundedly particular about morality in these part. give em fit heatherlegh and my love. now let me sleep a bite long. 
then my two self join and it be only i. half craze devil drive i. that toss in my bed trace step by step the history of the past month. 
but i be in simla i keep repeat to myself. i jack pansay be in simla and there be no ghost here. it s unreasonable of that woman to pretend there be. why couldn t agnes have leave me alone. i never do her any harm. it might just a well have be me a agnes. only i d never have come hack on purpose to kill her. why can t i be leave alone leave alone and happy. 
it be high noon when i first awake. and the sun be low in the sky before i sleep sleep a the torture criminal sleep on his rack too wear to feel further pain. 
next day i could not leave my bed. heatherlegh tell me in the morning that he have receive an answer from mr. mannering and that thank to his. heatherlegh s. friendly office the story of my affliction have travel through the length and breadth of simla where i be on all side much pity. 
and that s rather more than you deserve he conclude pleasantly though the lord know you ve be go through a pretty severe mill. never mind. we ll cure you yet you perverse phenomenon. 
i decline firmly to be cure. you ve be much too good to me already old man say i. but i don t think i need trouble you further. 
in my heart i know that nothing heatherlegh could do would lighten the burden that have be lay upon me. 
with that knowledge come also a sense of hopeless impotent rebellion against the unreasonableness of it all. there be score of men no good than i whose punishment have at least be reserve for another world. and i felt that it be bitterly cruelly unfair that i alone should have be single out for so hideous a fate. this mood would in time give place to another where it seem that the rickshaw and i be the only reality in a world of shadow. that kitty be a ghost. that mannering heatherlegh and all the other men and woman i know be all ghost. and the great grey hill themselves but vain shadow devise to torture me. from mood to mood i toss backward and forward for seven weary day. my body grow daily strong and strong until the bedroom look glass tell me that i have return to everyday life and be a other men once more. curiously enough my face show no sign of the struggle i have go through. it be pale indeed but a expression le and commonplace a ever. i have expect some permanent alteration visible evidence of the disease that be eat me away. i find nothing. 
on the th of may i leave heatherlegh s house at eleven o clock in the morning. and the instinct of the bachelor drive me to the club. there i find that every man know my story a tell by heatherlegh and be in clumsy fashion abnormally kind and attentive. nevertheless i recognize that for the rest of my natural life i should be among but not of my fellow. and i envy very bitterly indeed the laugh cooly on the mall below. i lunch at the club and at four o clock wander aimlessly down the mall in the vague hope of meet kitty. close to the band stand the black and white livery join me. and i hear mr. wessington s old appeal at my side. i have be expect this ever since i come out. and be only surprise at her delay. the phantom rickshaw and i go side by side along the chota simla road in silence. close to the bazar kitty and a man on horseback overtake and pass u. for any sign she give i might have be a dog in the road. she do not even pay me the compliment of quicken her pace. though the rainy afternoon have serve for an excuse. 
so kitty and her companion and i and my ghostly light o love creep round jakko in couple. the road be stream with water. the pine drip like roof pipe on the rock below and the air be full of fine drive rain. two or three time i find myself say to myself almost aloud. i m jack pansay on leave at simla at simla. everyday ordinary simla. i mustn t forget that i mustn t forget that. then i would try to recollect some of the gossip i have hear at the club. the price of so and so s horse anything in fact that relate to the workaday anglo indian world i know so well. i even repeat the multiplication table rapidly to myself to make quite sure that i be not take leave of my sens. it give me much comfort. and must have prevent my hear mr. wessington for a time. 
once more i wearily climb the convent slope and enter the level road. here kitty and the man start off at a canter and i be leave alone with mr. wessington. agnes say i will you put back your hood and tell me what it all mean. the hood drop noiselessly and i be face to face with my dead and bury mistress. she be wear the dress in which i have last see her alive. carry the same tiny handkerchief in her right hand. and the same cardcase in her leave. a woman eight month dead with a cardcase. i have to pin myself down to the multiplication table and to set both hand on the stone parapet of the road to assure myself that that at least be real. 
agnes i repeat for pity s sake tell me what it all mean. mr. wessington lean forward with that odd quick turn of the head i use to know so well and speak. 
if my story have not already so madly overleap the bound of all human belief i should apologize to you now. a i know that no one no not even kitty for whom it be write a some sort of justification of my conduct will believe me i will go on. mr. wessington speak and i walk with her from the sanjowlie road to the turn below the commander in chief s house a i might walk by the side of any live woman s rickshaw deep in conversation. the second and most torment of my mood of sickness have suddenly lay hold upon me and like the prince in tennyson s poem i seem to move amid a world of ghost. there have be a garden party at the commander in chief s and we two join the crowd of homeward bind folk. a i saw them then it seem that they be the shadow impalpable fantastic shadow that divide for mr. wessington s rickshaw to pas through. what we say during the course of that weird interview i cannot indeed i dare not tell. heatherlegh s comment would have be a short laugh and a remark that i have be mash a brain eye and stomach chimera. it be a ghastly and yet in some indefinable way a marvelously dear experience. could it be possible i wonder that i be in this life to woo a second time the woman i have kill by my own neglect and cruelty. 
i meet kitty on the homeward road a shadow among shadow. 
if i be to describe all the incident of the next fortnight in their order my story would never come to an end. and your patience would be exhaust. morning after morning and even after even the ghostly rickshaw and i use to wander through simla together. wherever i go there the four black and white livery follow me and bore me company to and from my hotel. at the theatre i find them amid the crowd or yell jhampanies. outside the club veranda after a long even of whist. at the birthday ball wait patiently for my reappearance. and in broad daylight when i go call. save that it cast no shadow the rickshaw be in every respect a real to look upon a one of wood and iron. more than once indeed i have have to check myself from warn some hard rid friend against canter over it. more than once i have walk down the mall deep in conversation with mr. wessington to the unspeakable amazement of the passer by. 
before i have be out and about a week i learn that the fit theory have be discard in favor of insanity. however i make no change in my mode of life. i call ride and din out a freely a ever. i have a passion for the society of my kind which i have never felt before. i hunger to be among the reality of life. and at the same time i felt vaguely unhappy when i have be separate too long from my ghostly companion. it would be almost impossible to describe my vary mood from the th of may up to to day. 
the presence of the rickshaw fill me by turn with horror blind fear a dim sort of pleasure and utter despair. i dare not leave simla. and i know that my stay there be kill me. i know moreover that it be my destiny to die slowly and a little every day. my only anxiety be to get the penance over a quietly a might be. alternately i hunger for a sight of kitty and watch her outrageous flirtation with my successor to speak more accurately my successor with amuse interest. she be a much out of my life a i be out of hers. by day i wander with mr. wessington almost content. by night i implore heaven to let me return to the world a i use to know it. above all these vary mood lay the sensation of dull numb wonder that the see and the unseen should mingle so strangely on this earth to hound one poor soul to it grave. 
* * * * *. 
august. heatherlegh ha be indefatigable in his attendance on me. and only yesterday tell me that i ought to send in an application for sick leave. an application to escape the company of a phantom. a request that the government would graciously permit me to get rid of five ghost and an airy rickshaw by go to england. heatherlegh s proposition move me to almost hysterical laughter. i tell him that i should await the end quietly at simla. and i be sure that the end be not far off. believe me that i dread it advent more than any word can say. and i torture myself nightly with a thousand speculation a to the manner of my death. 
shall i die in my bed decently and a an english gentleman should die. or in one last walk on the mall will my soul be wrench from me to take it place forever and ever by the side of that ghastly phantasm. shall i return to my old lose allegiance in the next world or shall i meet agnes loathe her and bind to her side through all eternity. shall we two hover over the scene of our life till the end of time. a the day of my death draw near the intense horror that all live flesh feel toward escape spirit from beyond the grave grow more and more powerful. it be an awful thing to go down quick among the dead with scarcely one half of your life complete. it be a thousand time more awful to wait a i do in your midst for i know not what unimaginable terror. pity me at least on the score of my delusion for i know you will never believe what i have write here. yet a surely a ever a man be do to death by the power of darkness i be that man. 
in justice too pity her. for a surely a ever woman be kill by man i kill mr. wessington. and the last portion of my punishment be ever now upon me. 
my own true ghost story. 
a i come through the desert thus it be a i come through the desert. the city of dreadful night. 
somewhere in the other world where there be book and picture and play and shop window to look at and thousand of men who spend their life in build up all four life a gentleman who write real story about the real inside of people. and his name be mr. walter besant. but he will insist upon treat his ghost he ha publish half a workshopful of them with levity. he make his ghost seer talk familiarly and in some case flirt outrageously with the phantom. you may treat anything from a viceroy to a vernacular paper with levity. but you must behave reverently toward a ghost and particularly an indian one. 
there be in this land ghost who take the form of fat cold pobby corps and hide in tree near the roadside till a traveler pass. then they drop upon his neck and remain. there be also terrible ghost of woman who have die in child bed. these wander along the pathway at dusk or hide in the crop near a village and call seductively. but to answer their call be death in this world and the next. their foot be turn backward that all sober men may recognize them. there be ghost of little child who have be throw into well. these haunt well curb and the fringe of jungle and wail under the star or catch woman by the wrist and beg to be take up and carry. these and the corpse ghost however be only vernacular article and do not attack sahib. no native ghost ha yet be authentically report to have frighten an englishman. but many english ghost have scar the life out of both white and black. 
nearly every other station own a ghost. there be say to be two at simla not count the woman who blow the bellow at syree dâk bungalow on the old road. mussoorie ha a house haunt of a very lively thing. a white lady be suppose to do night watchman round a house in lahore. dalhousie say that one of her house repeat on autumn evening all the incident of a horrible horse and precipice accident. murree ha a merry ghost and now that she ha be sweep by cholera will have room for a sorrowful one. there be officer quarter in mian mir whose door open without reason and whose furniture be guarantee to creak not with the heat of june but with the weight of invisibles who come to lounge in the chair. peshawur posse house that none will willingly rent. and there be something not fever wrong with a big bungalow in allahabad. the old province simply bristle with haunt house and march phantom army along their main thoroughfare. 
some of the dâk bungalow on the grand trunk road have handy little cemetery in their compound witness to the change and chance of this mortal life in the day when men drive from calcutta to the northwest. these bungalow be objectionable place to put up in. they be generally very old always dirty while the khansamah be a ancient a the bungalow. he either chatter senilely or fall into the long trance of age. in both mood he be useless. if you get angry with him he refer to some sahib dead and bury these thirty year and say that when he be in that sahib s service not a khansamah in the province could touch him. then he jabber and mow and tremble and fidget among the dish and you repent of your irritation. 
in these dâk bungalow ghost be most likely to be find and when find they should be make a note of. not long ago it be my business to live in dâk bungalow. i never inhabit the same house for three night run and grow to be learn in the breed. i live in government build one with red brick wall and rail ceiling an inventory of the furniture post in every room and an excite snake at the threshold to give welcome. i live in convert one old house officiate a dâk bungalow where nothing be in it proper place and there wasn t even a fowl for dinner. i live in second hand palace where the wind blow through open work marble tracery just a uncomfortably a through a break pane. i live in dâk bungalow where the last entry in the visitor book be fifteen month old and where they slash off the curry kid s head with a sword. it be my good luck to meet all sort of men from sober travel missionary and deserter fly from british regiment to drunken loafer who throw whisky bottle at all who pass. and my still great good fortune just to escape a maternity case. see that a fair proportion of the tragedy of our life out here act itself in dâk bungalow i wonder that i have meet no ghost. a ghost that would voluntarily hang about a dâk bungalow would be mad of course. but so many men have die mad in dâk bungalow that there must be a fair percentage of lunatic ghost. 
in due time i find my ghost or ghost rather for there be two of them. up till that hour i have sympathize with mr. besant s method of handle them a show in the strange case of mr. lucraft and other story. i be now in the opposition. 
we will call the bungalow katmal dâk bungalow. but that be the small part of the horror. a man with a sensitive hide ha no right to sleep in dâk bungalow. he should marry. katmal dâk bungalow be old and rotten and unrepaired. the floor be of wear brick the wall be filthy and the window be nearly black with grime. it stand on a bypath largely use by native sub deputy assistant of all kind from finance to forest. but real sahib be rare. the khansamah_ who be nearly bend double with old age say so. 
when i arrive there be a fitful undecided rain on the face of the land accompany by a restless wind and every gust make a noise like the rattle of dry bone in the stiff toddy palm outside. the khansamah completely lose his head on my arrival. he have serve a sahib once. do i know that sahib. he give me the name of a well know man who ha be bury for more than a quarter of a century and show me an ancient daguerreotype of that man in his prehistoric youth. i have see a steel engrave of him at the head of a double volume of memoir a month before and i felt ancient beyond tell. 
the day shut in and the khansamah go to get me food. he do not go through the pretense of call it _khana_ man s victual. he say _ratub_ and that mean among other thing grub dog s ration. there be no insult in his choice of the term. he have forget the other word i suppose. 
while he be cut up the dead body of animal i settle myself down after explore the dâk bungalow. there be three room beside my own which be a corner kennel each give into the other through dingy white door fasten with long iron bar. the bungalow be a very solid one but the partition wall of the room be almost jerry build in their flimsiness. every step or bang of a trunk echo from my room down the other three and every footfall come back tremulously from the far wall. for this reason i shut the door. there be no lamp only candle in long glass shade. an oil wick be set in the bathroom. 
for bleak unadulterated misery that dâk bungalow be the bad of the many that i have ever set foot in. there be no fireplace and the window would not open. so a brazier of charcoal would have be useless. the rain and the wind splash and gurgle and moan round the house and the toddy palm rattle and roar. half a dozen jackal go through the compound sing and a hyena stand afar off and mock them. a hyena would convince a sadducee of the resurrection of the dead the bad sort of dead. then come the ratub a curious meal half native and half english in composition with the old khansamah babble behind my chair about dead and go english people and the wind blow candle play shadow bo peep with the bed and the mosquito curtain. it be just the sort of dinner and even to make a man think of every single one of his past sin and of all the others that he intend to commit if he live. 
sleep for several hundred reason be not easy. the lamp in the bath room throw the most absurd shadow into the room and the wind be begin to talk nonsense. 
just when the reason be drowsy with blood suck i hear the regular let u take and heave him over grunt of doolie bearer in the compound. first one doolie come in then a second and then a third. i hear the doolies dump on the grind and the shutter in front of my door shake. that s some one try to come in i say. but no one speak and i persuade myself that it be the gusty wind. the shutter of the room next to mine be attack fling back and the inner door open. that s some sub deputy assistant i say and he ha bring his friend with him. now they ll talk and spit and smoke for an hour. 
but there be no voice and no footstep. no one be put his luggage into the next room. the door shut and i thank providence that i be to be leave in peace. but i be curious to know where the doolies have go. i get out of bed and look into the darkness. there be never a sign of a doolie. just a i be get into bed again i hear in the next room the sound that no man in his sens can possibly mistake the whir of a billiard ball down the length of the slate when the striker be string for break. no other sound be like it. a minute afterwards there be another whir and i get into bed. i be not frighten indeed i be not. i be very curious to know what have become of the doolies. i jump into bed for that reason. 
next minute i hear the double click of a cannon and my hair sit up. it be a mistake to say that hair stand up. the skin of the head tighten and you can feel a faint prickly bristle all over the scalp. that be the hair sit up. 
there be a whir and a click and both sound could only have be make by one thing a billiard ball. i argue the matter out at great length with myself. and the more i argue the le probable it seem that one bed one table and two chair all the furniture of the room next to mine could so exactly duplicate the sound of a game of billiards. after another cannon a three cushion one to judge by the whir i argue no more. i have find my ghost and would have give world to have escape from that dâk bungalow. i listen and with each listen the game grow clear. there be whir on whir and click on click. sometimes there be a double click and a whir and another click. beyond any sort of doubt people be play billiards in the next room. and the next room be not big enough to hold a billiard table. 
between the pause of the wind i hear the game go forward stroke after stroke. i try to believe that i could not hear voice. but that attempt be a failure. 
do you know what fear be. not ordinary fear of insult injury or death but abject quiver dread of something that you cannot see fear that dry the inside of the mouth and half of the throat fear that make you sweat on the palm of the hand and gulp in order to keep the uvula at work. this be a fine fear a great cowardice and must be felt to be appreciate. the very improbability of billiards in a dâk bungalow prove the reality of the thing. no man drink or sober could imagine a game at billiards or invent the spit crack of a screw cannon. 
a severe course of dâk bungalow ha this disadvantage it breed infinite credulity. if a man say to a confirm dâk bungalow haunter. there be a corpse in the next room and there s a mad girl in the next but one and the woman and man on that camel have just elope from a place sixty mile away the hearer would not disbelieve because he would know that nothing be too wild grotesque or horrible to happen in a dâk bungalow. 
this credulity unfortunately extend to ghost. a rational person fresh from his own house would have turn on his side and sleep. i do not. so surely a i be give up a a bad carcass by the score of thing in the bed because the bulk of my blood be in my heart so surely do i hear every stroke of a long game at billiards play in the echo room behind the iron bar door. my dominant fear be that the player might want a marker. it be an absurd fear. because creature who could play in the dark would be above such superfluity. i only know that that be my terror. and it be real. 
after a long long while the game stop and the door bang. i sleep because i be dead tire. otherwise i should have prefer to have keep awake. not for everything in asia would i have drop the door bar and peer into the dark of the next room. 
when the morning come i consider that i have do well and wisely and inquire for the mean of departure. 
by the way khansamah_ i say what be those three doolies do in my compound in the night. 
there be no doolies say the khansamah. 
i go into the next room and the daylight stream through the open door. i be immensely brave. i would at that hour have play black pool with the owner of the big black pool down below. 
ha this place always be a dâk bungalow. i ask. 
no say the khansamah. ten or twenty year ago i have forget how long it be a billiard room. 
a how much. 
a billiard room for the sahib who build the railway. i be khansamah then in the big house where all the railway sahib live and i use to come across with brandy shrab. these three room be all one and they hold a big table on which the sahib play every even. but the sahib be all dead now and the railway run you say nearly to kabul. 
do you remember anything about the sahib. 
it be long ago but i remember that one sahib a fat man and always angry be play here one night and he say to me. mangal khan brandy pani do_ and i fill the glass and he bend over the table to strike and his head fell low and low till it hit the table and his spectacle come off and when we the sahib and i myself run to lift him. he be dead. i help to carry him out. aha he be a strong sahib. but he be dead and i old mangal khan be still live by your favor. 
that be more than enough. i have my ghost a firsthand authenticate article. i would write to the society for psychical research i would paralyze the empire with the news. but i would first of all put eighty mile of assess crop land between myself and that dâk bungalow before nightfall. the society might send their regular agent to investigate late on. 
i go into my own room and prepare to pack after note down the fact of the case. a i smoke i hear the game begin again with a miss in balk this time for the whir be a short one. 
the door be open and i could see into the room. click click. that be a cannon. i enter the room without fear for there be sunlight within and a fresh breeze without. the unseen game be go on at a tremendous rate. and well it might when a restless little rat be run to and fro inside the dingy ceiling cloth and a piece of loose window sash be make fifty break off the window bolt a it shake in the breeze. 
impossible to mistake the sound of billiard ball. impossible to mistake the whir of a ball over the slate. but i be to be excuse. even when i shut my enlighten eye the sound be marvelously like that of a fast game. 
enter angrily the faithful partner of my sorrow kadir baksh. 
this bungalow be very bad and low caste. no wonder the presence be disturb and be speckle. three set of doolie bearer come to the bungalow late last night when i be sleep outside and say that it be their custom to rest in the room set apart for the english people. what honor ha the khansamah. they try to enter but i tell them to go. no wonder if these oorias have be here that the presence be sorely spot. it be shame and the work of a dirty man. 
kadir baksh do not say that he have take from each gang two anna for rent in advance and then beyond my earshot have beat them with the big green umbrella whose use i could never before divine. but kadir baksh ha no notion of morality. 
there be an interview with the khansamah_ but a he promptly lose his head wrath give place to pity and pity lead to a long conversation in the course of which he put the fat engineer sahib s tragic death in three separate station two of them fifty mile away. the third shift be to calcutta and there the sahib die while drive a dogcart. 
if i have encourage him the khansamah would have wander all through bengal with his corpse. 
i do not go away a soon a i intend. i stay for the night while the wind and the rat and the sash and the window bolt play a ding dong hundred and fifty up. then the wind run out and the billiards stop and i felt that i have ruin my one genuine hall mark ghost story. 
have i only stop at the proper time i could have make anything out of it. 
that be the bitter think of all. 
the strange ride of morrowbie juke. 
alive or dead there be no other way. native proverb. 
there be a the conjurer say no deception about this tale. juke by accident stumble upon a village that be well know to exist though he be the only englishman who ha be there. a somewhat similar institution use to flourish on the outskirt of calcutta and there be a story that if you go into the heart of bikanir which be in the heart of the great indian desert you shall come across not a village but a town where the dead who do not die but may not live have establish their headquarter. and since it be perfectly true that in the same desert be a wonderful city where all the rich money lender retreat after they have make their fortune. fortune so vast that the owner cannot trust even the strong hand of the government to protect them but take refuge in the waterless sand. and drive sumptuous c spring barouche and buy beautiful girl and decorate their palace with gold and ivory and minton tile and mother n pearl i do not see why juke s tale should not be true. he be a civil engineer with a head for plan and distance and thing of that kind and he certainly would not take the trouble to invent imaginary trap. he could earn more by do his legitimate work. he never vary the tale in the tell and grow very hot and indignant when he think of the disrespectful treatment he receive. he write this quite straightforwardly at first but he ha since touch it up in place and introduce moral reflection thus. 
in the begin it all arise from a slight attack of fever. my work necessitate my be in camp for some month between pakpattan and muharakpur a desolate sandy stretch of country a every one who ha have the misfortune to go there may know. my cooly be neither more nor le exasperate than other gang and my work demand sufficient attention to keep me from mop have i be incline to so unmanly a weakness. 
on the d december i felt a little feverish. there be a full moon at the time and in consequence every dog near my tent be bay it. the brute assemble in two and three and drive me frantic. a few day previously i have shoot one loud mouth singer and suspend his carcass in terrorem about fifty yard from my tent door. but his friend fell upon fight for and ultimately devour the body. and a it seem to me sing their hymn of thanksgiving afterward with renew energy. 
the light heartedness which accompany fever act differently on different men. my irritation give way after a short time to a fix determination to slaughter one huge black and white beast who have be foremost in song and first in flight throughout the even. thank to a shake hand and a giddy head i have already miss him twice with both barrel of my shoot gun when it strike me that my best plan would be to ride him down in the open and finish him off with a hog spear. this of course be merely the semi delirious notion of a fever patient. but i remember that it strike me at the time a be eminently practical and feasible. 
i therefore order my groom to saddle pornic and bring him round quietly to the rear of my tent. when the pony be ready i stand at his head prepare to mount and dash out a soon a the dog should again lift up his voice. pornic by the way have not be out of his picket for a couple of day. the night air be crisp and chilly. and i be arm with a specially long and sharp pair of persuader with which i have be rouse a sluggish cob that afternoon. you will easily believe then that when he be let go he go quickly. in one moment for the brute bolt a straight a a die the tent be leave far behind and we be fly over the smooth sandy soil at race speed. 
in another we have pass the wretched dog and i have almost forget why it be that i have take the horse and hogspear. 
the delirium of fever and the excitement of rapid motion through the air must have take away the remnant of my sens. i have a faint recollection of stand upright in my stirrup and of brandish my hog spear at the great white moon that look down so calmly on my mad gallop. and of shout log challenge to the camel thorn bush a they whiz past. once or twice i believe i sway forward on pornic s neck and literally hang on by my spur a the mark next morning show. 
the wretched beast go forward like a thing possess over what seem to be a limitless expanse of moonlit sand. next i remember the grind rise suddenly in front of u and a we top the ascent i saw the water of the sutlej shin like a silver bar below. then pornic blunder heavily on his nose and we roll together down some unseen slope. 
i must have lose consciousness for when i recover i be lie on my stomach in a heap of soft white sand and the dawn be begin to break dimly over the edge of the slope down which i have fall. a the light grow strong i saw that i be at the bottom of a horseshoe shape crater of sand open on one side directly on to the shoal of the sutlej. my fever have altogether leave me and with the exception of a slight dizziness in the head i felt no have effect from the fall over night. 
pornic who be stand a few yard away be naturally a good deal exhaust but have not hurt himself in the least. his saddle a favorite polo one be much knock about and have be twist under his belly. it take me some time to put him to right and in the meantime i have ample opportunity of observe the spot into which i have so foolishly drop. 
at the risk of be consider tedious i must describe it at length. inasmuch a an accurate mental picture of it peculiarity will be of material assistance in enable the reader to understand what follow. 
imagine then a i have say before a horseshoe shape crater of sand with steeply grade sand wall about thirty five foot high. the slope i fancy must have be about degree. this crater enclose a level piece of grind about fifty yard long by thirty at it broad part with a crude well in the centre. round the bottom of the crater about three foot from the level of the grind proper run a series of eighty three semi circular ovoid square and multilateral hole all about three foot at the mouth. each hole on inspection show that it be carefully shore internally with drift wood and bamboo and over the mouth a wooden drip board project like the peak of a jockey s cap for two foot. no sign of life be visible in these tunnel but a most sicken stench pervade the entire amphitheatre a stench foul than any which my wandering in indian village have introduce me to. 
have remount pornic who be a anxious a i to get back to camp i ride round the base of the horseshoe to find some place whence an exit would be practicable. the inhabitant whoever they might be have not think fit to put in an appearance so i be leave to my own device. my first attempt to rush pornic up the steep sand bank show me that i have fall into a trap exactly on the same model a that which the ant lion set for it prey. at each step the shift sand pour down from above in ton and rattle on the drip board of the hole like small shoot. a couple of ineffectual charge send u both roll down to the bottom half choke with the torrent of sand. and i be constrain to turn my attention to the river bank. 
here everything seem easy enough. the sand hill run down to the river edge it be true but there be plenty of shoal and shallow across which i could gallop pornic and find my way back to terra firma by turn sharply to the right or leave. a i lead pornic over the sand i be startle by the faint pop of a rifle across the river. and at the same moment a bullet drop with a sharp _whit_ close to pornic s head. 
there be no mistake the nature of the missile a regulation martini henry picket. about five hundred yard away a country boat be anchor in midstream. and a jet of smoke drift away from it bow in the still morning air show me whence the delicate attention have come. be ever a respectable gentleman in such an impasse. the treacherous sand slope allow no escape from a spot which i have visit most involuntarily and a promenade on the river frontage be the signal for a bombardment from some insane native in a boat. i m afraid that i lose my temper very much indeed. 
another bullet remind me that i have good save my breath to cool my porridge. and i retreat hastily up the sand and back to the horseshoe where i saw that the noise of the rifle have draw sixty five human being from the badger hole which i have up till that point suppose to be untenanted. i find myself in the midst of a crowd of spectator about forty men twenty woman and one child who could not have be more than five year old. they be all scantily clothe in that salmon color cloth which one associate with hindu mendicant and at first sight give me the impression of a band of loathsome fakir. the filth and repulsiveness of the assembly be beyond all description and i shudder to think what their life in the badger hole must be. 
even in these day when local self government ha destroy the great part of a native s respect for a sahib i have be accustom to a certain amount of civility from my inferior and on approach the crowd naturally expect that there would be some recognition of my presence. a a matter of fact there be. but it be by no mean what i have look for. 
the rag crew actually laugh at me such laughter i hope i may never hear again. they cackle yell whistle and howl a i walk into their midst. some of them literally throw themselves down on the grind in convulsion of unholy mirth. in a moment i have let go pornic s head and irritate beyond expression at the morning s adventure commence cuff those near to me with all the force i could. the wretch drop under my blow like nine pin and the laughter give place to wail for mercy. while those yet untouched clasp me round the knee implore me in all sort of uncouth tongue to spare them. 
in the tumult and just when i be feel very much ashamed of myself for have thus easily give way to my temper a thin high voice murmur in english from behind my shoulder. sahib. sahib. do you not know me. sahib it be gunga das the telegraph master. 
i spin round quickly and face the speaker. 
gunga das. i have of course no hesitation in mention the man s real name. i have know four year before a a deccanee brahmin loan by the punjab government to one of the khalsia state. he be in charge of a branch telegraph office there and when i have last meet him be a jovial full stomach portly government servant with a marvelous capacity for make bad pun in english a peculiarity which make me remember him long after i have forget his service to me in his official capacity. it be seldom that a hindu make english pun. 
now however the man be change beyond all recognition. caste mark stomach slate color continuation and unctuous speech be all go. i look at a wither skeleton turban le and almost naked with long mat hair and deep set codfish eye. but for a crescent shape scar on the leave cheek the result of an accident for which i be responsible i should never have know him. but it be indubitably gunga das and for this i be thankfull an english speak native who might at least tell me the mean of all that i have go through that day. 
the crowd retreat to some distance a i turn toward the miserable figure and order him to show me some method of escape from the crater. he hold a freshly pluck crow in his hand and in reply to my question climb slowly on a platform of sand which run in front of the hole and commence light a fire there in silence. dry bent sand poppy and driftwood burn quickly. and i derive much consolation from the fact that he light them with an ordinary sulphur match. when they be in a bright glow and the crow be nearly spit in front thereof gunga das begin without a word of preamble. 
there be only two kind of men sar. the alive and the dead. when you be dead you be dead but when you be alive you live. here the crow demand his attention for an instant a it twirl before the fire in danger of be burn to a cinder. if you die at home and do not die when you come to the ghât to be burn you come here. 
the nature of the reek village be make plain now and all that i have know or read of the grotesque and the horrible pal before the fact just communicate by the ex brahmin. sixteen year ago when i first land in bombay i have be tell by a wander armenian of the existence somewhere in india of a place to which such hindu a have the misfortune to recover from trance or catalepsy be convey and keep and i recollect laugh heartily at what i be then please to consider a traveler s tale. 
sit at the bottom of the sand trap the memory of watson s hotel with it swing punkah white rob attendant and the sallow face armenian rise up in my mind a vividly a a photograph and i burst into a loud fit of laughter. the contrast be too absurd. 
gunga das a he bend over the unclean bird watch me curiously. hindu seldom laugh and his surround be not such a to move gunga das to any undue excess of hilarity. he remove the crow solemnly from the wooden spit and a solemnly devour it. then he continue his story which i give in his own word. 
in epidemic of the cholera you be carry to be burn almost before you be dead. when you come to the riverside the cold air perhaps make you alive and then if you be only little alive mud be put on your nose and mouth and you die conclusively. if you be rather more alive more mud be put. but if you be too lively they let you go and take you away. i be too lively and make protestation with anger against the indignity that they endeavor to press upon me. in those day i be brahmin and proud man. now i be dead man and eat here he eye the well gnaw breast bone with the first sign of emotion that i have see in him since we meet crow and other thing. they take me from my sheet when they saw that i be too lively and give me medicine for one week and i survive successfully. then they send me by rail from my place to okara station with a man to take care of me. and at okara station we meet two other men and they conduct we three on camel in the night from okara station to this place and they propel me from the top to the bottom and the other two succeed and i have be here ever since two and a half year. once i be brahmin and proud man and now i eat crow. 
there be no way of get out. 
none of what kind at all. when i first come i make experiment frequently and all the others also but we have always succumb to the sand which be precipitate upon our head. 
but surely i break in at this point the river front be open and it be worth while dodge the bullet. while at night i have already mature a rough plan of escape which a natural instinct of selfishness forbid me share with gunga das. he however divine my unspoken think almost a soon a it be form. and to my intense astonishment give vent to a long low chuckle of derision the laughter be it understand of a superior or at least of an equal. 
you will not he have drop the sir completely after his open sentence make any escape that way. but you can try. i have try. once only. 
the sensation of nameless terror and abject fear which i have in vain attempt to strive against overmaster me completely. my long fast it be now close upon ten o clock and i have eat nothing since tiffin on the previous day combine with the violent and unnatural agitation of the ride have exhaust me and i verily believe that for a few minute i act a one mad. i hurl myself against the pitiless sand slope i run round the base of the crater blaspheme and pray by turn. i crawl out among the sedge of the river front only to be drive back each time in an agony of nervous dread by the rifle bullet which cut up the sand round me for i dare not face the death of a mad dog among that hideous crowd and finally fell spend and rave at the curb of the well. no one have take the slight notion of an exhibition which make me blush hotly even when i think of it now. 
two or three men tread on my pant body a they draw water but they be evidently use to this sort of thing and have no time to waste upon me. the situation be humiliate. gunga das indeed when he have bank the ember of his fire with sand be at some pain to throw half a cupful of fetid water over my head an attention for which i could have fall on my knee and thank him but he be laugh all the while in the same mirthless wheezy key that greet me on my first attempt to force the shoal. and so in a semi comatose condition i lay till noon. then be only a man after all i felt hungry and intimate a much to gunga das whom i have begin to regard a my natural protector. follow the impulse of the out world when deal with native i put my hand into my pocket and draw out four anna. the absurdity of the gift strike me at once and i be about to replace the money. 
gunga das however be of a different opinion. give me the money say he. all you have or i will get help and we will kill you. all this a if it be the most natural thing in the world. 
a briton s first impulse i believe be to guard the content of his pocket. but a moment s reflection convince me of the futility of differ with the one man who have it in his power to make me comfortable. and with whose help it be possible that i might eventually escape from the crater. i give him all the money in my possession r. nine rupee eight anna and five pie for i always keep small change a bakshish when i be in camp. gunga das clutch the coin and hide them at once in his rag loin cloth his expression change to something diabolical a he look round to assure himself that no one have observe u. 
_now i will give you something to eat say he. 
what pleasure the possession of my money could have afford him i be unable to say. but inasmuch a it do give him evident delight i be not sorry that i have part with it so readily for i have no doubt that he would have have me kill if i have refuse. one doe not protest against the vagary of a den of wild beast. and my companion be low than any beast. while i devour what gunga das have provide a coarse chapatti and a cupful of the foul well water the people show not the faint sign of curiosity that curiosity which be so rampant a a rule in an indian village. 
i could even fancy that they despise me. at all event they treat me with the most chill indifference and gunga das be nearly a bad. i ply him with question about the terrible village and receive extremely unsatisfactory answer. so far a i could gather it have be in existence from time immemorial whence i conclude that it be at least a century old and during that time no one have ever be know to escape from it. [i have to control myself here with both hand l the blind terror should lay hold of me a second time and drive me rave round the crater. ] gunga das take a malicious pleasure in emphasize this point and in watch me wince. nothing that i could do would induce him to tell me who the mysterious they be. 
it be so order he would reply and i do not yet know any one who ha disobey the order. 
only wait till my servant find that i be miss i retort and i promise you that this place shall be clear off the face of the earth and i ll give you a lesson in civility too my friend. 
your servant would be tear in piece before they come near this place. and besides you be dead my dear friend. it be not your fault of course but none the le you be dead and bury. 
at irregular interval supply of food i be tell be drop down from the land side into the amphitheatre and the inhabitant fight for them like wild beast. when a man felt his death come on he retreat to his lair and die there. the body be sometimes drag out of the hole and throw on to the sand or allow to rot where it lay. 
the phrase throw on to the sand catch my attention and i ask gunga das whether this sort of thing be not likely to breed a pestilence. 
that say he with another of his wheezy chuckle you may see for yourself subsequently. you will have much time to make observation. 
whereat to his great delight i wince once more and hastily continue the conversation. and how do you live here from day to day. what do you do. the question elicit exactly the same answer a before couple with the information that this place be like your european heaven. there be neither marry nor give in marriage. 
gunga das have be educate at a mission school and a he himself admit have he only change his religion like a wise man might have avoid the live grave which be now his portion. but a long a i be with him i fancy he be happy. 
here be a sahib a representative of the dominant race helpless a a child and completely at the mercy of his native neighbor. in a deliberate lazy way he set himself to torture me a a schoolboy would devote a rapturous half hour to watch the agony of an impale beetle or a a ferret in a blind burrow might glue himself comfortably to the neck of a rabbit. the burden of his conversation be that there be no escape of no kind whatever and that i should stay here till i die and be throw on to the sand. if it be possible to forejudge the conversation of the damn on the advent of a new soul in their abide i should say that they would speak a gunga das do to me throughout that long afternoon. i be powerless to protest or answer. all my energy be devote to a struggle against the inexplicable terror that threaten to overwhelm me again and again. i can compare the feel to nothing except the struggle of a man against the overpower nausea of the channel passage only my agony be of the spirit and infinitely more terrible. 
a the day wear on the inhabitant begin to appear in full strength to catch the ray of the afternoon sun which be now slop in at the mouth of the crater. they assemble in little knot and talk among themselves without even throw a glance in my direction. about four o clock a far a i could judge gunga das rise and dive into his lair for a moment emerge with a live crow in his hand. the wretched bird be in a most draggle and deplorable condition but seem to be in no way afraid of it master. advance cautiously to the river front gunga das step from tussock to tussock until he have reach a smooth patch of sand directly in the line of the boat s fire. the occupant of the boat take no notice. here he stop and with a couple of dexterous turn of the wrist peg the bird on it back with outstretched wing. a be only natural the crow begin to shriek at once and beat the air with it claw. in a few second the clamor have attract the attention of a bevy of wild crow on a shoal a few hundred yard away where they be discuss something that look like a corpse. half a dozen crow fly over at once to see what be go on and also a it prove to attack the pinion bird. gunga das who have lie down on a tussock motion to me to be quiet though i fancy this be a needle precaution. in a moment and before i could see how it happen a wild crow who have grapple with the shriek and helpless bird be entangle in the latter s claw swiftly disengage by gunga das and peg down beside it companion in adversity. curiosity it seem overpower the rest of the flock and almost before gunga das and i have time to withdraw to the tussock two more captive be struggle in the upturned claw of the decoy. so the chase if i can give it so dignify a name continue until gunga das have capture seven crow. five of them he throttle at once reserve two for further operation another day. i be a good deal impress by this to me novel method of secure food and compliment gunga das on his skill. 
it be nothing to do say he. tomorrow you must do it for me. you be strong than i be. 
this calm assumption of superiority upset me not a little and i answer peremptorily. indeed you old ruffian. what do you think i have give you money for. 
very well be the unmoved reply. perhaps not to morrow nor the day after nor subsequently. but in the end and for many year you will catch crow and eat crow and you will thank your european god that you have crow to catch and eat. 
i could have cheerfully strangle him for this. but judge it best under the circumstance to smother my resentment. an hour late i be eat one of the crow. and a gunga das have say thank my god that i have a crow to eat. never a long a i live shall i forget that even meal. the whole population be squat on the hard sand platform opposite their den huddle over tiny fire of refuse and dry rush. death have once lay his hand upon these men and forbear to strike seem to stand aloof from them now. for most of our company be old men bend and wear and twist with year and woman age to all appearance a the fate themselves. they sit together in knot and talk god only know what they find to discus in low equable tone curiously in contrast to the strident babble with which native be accustom to make day hideous. now and then an access of that sudden fury which have possess me in the morning would lay hold on a man or woman. and with yell and imprecation the sufferer would attack the steep slope until baffle and bleed he fell back on the platform incapable of move a limb. the others would never even raise their eye when this happen a men too well aware of the futility of their fellow attempt and weary with their useless repetition. i saw four such outburst in the course of the even. 
gunga das take an eminently business like view of my situation and while we be din i can afford to laugh at the recollection now but it be painful enough at the time propound the term on which he would consent to do for me. my nine rupee eight anna he argue at the rate of three anna a day would provide me with food for fifty one day or about seven week. that be to say he would be will to cater for me for that length of time. at the end of it i be to look after myself. for a further consideration videlicet my boot he would be will to allow me to occupy the den next to his own and would supply me with a much dry grass for bed a he could spare. 
very well gunga das i reply. to the first term i cheerfully agree but a there be nothing on earth to prevent my kill you a you sit here and take everything that you have. i think of the two invaluable crow at the time. i flatly refuse to give you my boot and shall take whichever den i please. 
the stroke be a bold one and i be glad when i saw that it have succeed. gunga das change his tone immediately and disavow all intention of ask for my boot. at the time it do not strike me a at all strange that i a civil engineer a man of thirteen year stand in the service and i trust an average englishman should thus calmly threaten murder and violence against the man who have for a consideration it be true take me under his wing. i have leave the world it seem for century. i be a certain then a i be now of my own existence that in the accurse settlement there be no law save that of the strong. that the live dead men have throw behind them every canon of the world which have cast them out. and that i have to depend for my own life on my strength and vigilance alone. the crew of the ill fat mignonette be the only men who would understand my frame of mind. at present i argue to myself i be strong and a match for six of these wretch. it be imperatively necessary that i should for my own sake keep both health and strength until the hour of my release come if it ever doe. 
fortify with these resolution i eat and drink a much a i could and make gunga das understand that i intend to be his master and that the least sign of insubordination on his part would be visit with the only punishment i have it in my power to inflict sudden and violent death. shortly after this i go to bed. that be to say gunga das give me a double armful of dry bent which i thrust down the mouth of the lair to the right of his and follow myself foot foremost. the hole run about nine foot into the sand with a slight downward inclination and be neatly shore with timber. from my den which face the river front i be able to watch the water of the sutlej flow past under the light of a young moon and compose myself to sleep a best i might. 
the horror of that night i shall never forget. my den be nearly a narrow a a coffin and the side have be wear smooth and greasy by the contact of innumerable naked body add to which it smell abominably. sleep be altogether out of question to one in my excite frame of mind. a the night wear on it seem that the entire amphitheatre be fill with legion of unclean devil that troop up from the shoal below mock the unfortunate in their lair. 
personally i be not of an imaginative temperament very few engineer be but on that occasion i be a completely prostrate with nervous terror a any woman. after half an hour or so however i be able once more to calmly review my chance of escape. any exit by the steep sand wall be of course impracticable. i have be thoroughly convince of this some time before. it be possible just possible that i might in the uncertain moonlight safely run the gauntlet of the rifle shot. the place be so full of terror for me that i be prepare to undergo any risk in leave it. imagine my delight then when after creep stealthily to the river front i find that the infernal boat be not there. my freedom lay before me in the next few step. 
by walk out to the first shallow pool that lay at the foot of the project leave horn of the horseshoe i could wade across turn the flank of the crater and make my way inland. without a moment s hesitation i march briskly past the tussock where gunga das have snare the crow and out in the direction of the smooth white sand beyond. my first step from the tuft of dry grass show me how utterly futile be any hope of escape. for a i put my foot down i felt an indescribable draw suck motion of the sand below. another moment and my leg be swallow up nearly to the knee. in the moonlight the whole surface of the sand seem to be shake with devilish delight at my disappointment. i struggle clear sweat with terror and exertion back to the tussock behind me and fell on my face. 
my only mean of escape from the semicircle be protect with a quicksand. 
how long i lay i have not the faint idea. but i be rouse at last by the malevolent chuckle of gunga das at my ear i would advise you protector of the poor. the ruffian be speak english. to return to your house. it be unhealthy to lie down here. moreover when the boat return you will most certainly be rifle at. he stand over me in the dim light of the dawn chuckle and laugh to himself. suppress my first impulse to catch the man by the neck and throw him on to the quicksand i rise sullenly and follow him to the platform below the burrow. 
suddenly and futilely a i think while i speak i ask. gunga das what be the good of the boat if i can t get out anyhow. i recollect that even in my deep trouble i have be speculate vaguely on the waste of ammunition in guard an already well protect foreshore. 
gunga das laugh again and make answer. they have the boat only in daytime. it be for the reason that there be a way. i hope we shall have the pleasure of your company for much long time. it be a pleasant spot when you have be here some year and eat roast crow long enough. 
i stagger numb and helpless toward the fetid burrow allot to me and fell asleep. an hour or so late i be awaken by a pierce scream the shrill high pitch scream of a horse in pain. those who have once hear that will never forget the sound. i find some little difficulty in scramble out of the burrow. when i be in the open i saw pornic my poor old pornic lie dead on the sandy soil. how they have kill him i cannot guess. gunga das explain that horse be good than crow and great good of great number be political maxim. we be now republic mister juke and you be entitle to a fair share of the beast. if you like we will pas a vote of thank. shall i propose. 
yes we be a republic indeed. a republic of wild beast pen at the bottom of a pit to eat and fight and sleep till we die. i attempt no protest of any kind but sit down and star at the hideous sight in front of me. in le time almost than it take me to write this pornic s body be divide in some unclear way or other. the men and woman have drag the fragment on to the platform and be prepare their normal meal. gunga das cook mine. the almost irresistible impulse to fly at the sand wall until i be weary lay hold of me afresh and i have to struggle against it with all my might. gunga das be offensively jocular till i tell him that if he address another remark of any kind whatever to me i should strangle him where he sit. this silence him till silence become insupportable and i bid him say something. 
you will live here till you die like the other feringhi he say coolly watch me over the fragment of gristle that he be gnaw. 
what other sahib you swine. speak at once and don t stop to tell me a lie. 
he be over there answer gunga das point to a burrow mouth about four door to the leave of my own. you can see for yourself. he die in the burrow a you will die and i will die and a all these men and woman and the one child will also die. 
for pity s sake tell me all you know about him. who be he. when do he come and when do he die. 
this appeal be a weak step on my part. gunga das only leer and reply. i will not unless you give me something first. 
then i recollect where i be and strike the man between the eye partially stun him. he step down from the platform at once and cringe and fawn and weep and attempt to embrace my foot lead me round to the burrow which he have indicate. 
i know nothing whatever about the gentleman. your god be my witness that i do not. he be a anxious to escape a you be and he be shoot from the boat though we all do all thing to prevent him from attempt. he be shoot here. gunga das lay his hand on his lean stomach and bow to the earth. 
well and what then. go on. 
and then and then your honor we carry him in to his house and give him water and put wet cloth on the wind and he lay down in his house and give up the ghost. 
in how long. in how long. 
about half an hour after he receive his wind. i call vishnu to witness yell the wretched man that i do everything for him. everything which be possible that i do. 
he throw himself down on the grind and clasp my ankle. but i have my doubt about gunga das s benevolence and kick him off a he lay protest. 
i believe you rob him of everything he have. but i can find out in a minute or two. how long be the sahib here. 
nearly a year and a half. i think he must have go mad. but hear me swear protector of the poor. win t your honor hear me swear that i never touch an article that belong to him. what be your worship go to do. 
i have take gunga das by the waist and have haul him on to the platform opposite the desert burrow. a i do so i think of my wretched fellow prisoner s unspeakable misery among all these horror for eighteen month and the final agony of die like a rat in a hole with a bullet wind in the stomach. gunga das fancy i be go to kill him and howl pitifully. the rest of the population in the plethora that follow a full flesh meal watch u without stir. 
go inside gunga das say i and fetch it out. 
i be feel sick and faint with horror now. gunga das nearly roll off the platform and howl aloud. 
but i be brahmin sahib a high caste brahmin. by your soul by your father s soul do not make me do this thing. 
brahmin or no brahmin by my soul and my father s soul in you go. i say and seize him by the shoulder i cram his head into the mouth of the burrow kick the rest of him in and sit down cover my face with my hand. 
at the end of a few minute i hear a rustle and a creak. then gunga das in a sob choke whisper speak to himself. then a soft thud and i uncover my eye. 
the dry sand have turn the corpse entrust to it keep into a yellow brown mummy. i tell gunga das to stand off while i examine it. the body clothe in an olive green hunt suit much stain and wear with leather pad on the shoulder be that of a man between thirty and forty above middle height with light sandy hair long mustache and a rough unkempt beard. the leave canine of the upper jaw be miss and a portion of the lobe of the right ear be go. on the second finger of the leave hand be a ring a shield shape bloodstone set in gold with a monogram that might have be either b. k. or b. l. on the third finger of the right hand be a silver ring in the shape of a coil cobra much wear and tarnish. gunga das deposit a handful of trifle he have pick out of the burrow at my foot and cover the face of the body with my handkerchief i turn to examine these. i give the full list in the hope that it may lead to the identification of the unfortunate man. 
bowl of a briarwood pipe serrate at the edge. much wear and blacken. bind with string at the crew. 
two patent lever key. ward of both break. 
tortoise shell handle penknife silver or nickel name plate mark with monogram b. k. 
envelope postmark undecipherable bear a victorian stamp address to miss mon. rest illegible. ham nt. 
imitation crocodile skin notebook with pencil. first forty five page blank. four and a half illegible. fifteen others fill with private memoranda relate chiefly to three person a mr. l. singleton abbreviate several time to lot single mr. s. may and garmison refer to in place a jerry or jack. 
handle of small size hunt knife. blade snap short. buck s horn diamond cut with swivel and ring on the butt. fragment of cotton cord attach. 
it must not be suppose that i inventoried all these thing on the spot a fully a i have here write them down. the notebook first attract my attention and i put it in my pocket with a view of study it late on. 
the rest of the article i convey to my burrow for safety s sake and there be a methodical man i inventoried them. i then return to the corpse and order gunga das to help me to carry it out to the river front. while we be engage in this the explode shell of an old brown cartridge drop out of one of the pocket and roll at my foot. gunga das have not see it. and i fell to think that a man doe not carry explode cartridge case especially brown which will not bear load twice about with him when shoot. in other word that cartridge case have be fire inside the crater. consequently there must be a gun somewhere. i be on the verge of ask gunga das but check myself know that he would lie. we lay the body down on the edge of the quicksand by the tussock. it be my intention to push it out and let it be swallow up the only possible mode of burial that i could think of. i order gunga das to go away. 
then i gingerly put the corpse out on the quicksand. in do so it be lie face downward i tear the frail and rotten khaki shoot coat open disclose a hideous cavity in the back. i have already tell you that the dry sand have a it be mummify the body. a moment s glance show that the gap hole have be cause by a gun shoot wind. the gun must have be fire with the muzzle almost touch the back. the shoot coat be intact have be draw over the body after death which must have be instantaneous. the secret of the poor wretch s death be plain to me in a flash. some one of the crater presumably gunga das must have shoot him with his own gun the gun that fit the brown cartridge. he have never attempt to escape in the face of the rifle fire from the boat. 
i push the corpse out hastily and saw it sink from sight literally in a few second. i shudder a i watch. in a daze half conscious way i turn to peruse the notebook. a stain and discolor slip of paper have be insert between the bind and the back and drop out a i open the page. this be what it contain. _four out from crow clump. three leave. nine out. two right. three back. two leave. fourteen out. two leave. seven out. one leave. nine back. two right. six back. four right. seven back. the paper have be burn and char at the edge. what it mean i could not understand. i sit down on the dry bent turn it over and over between my finger until i be aware of gunga das stand immediately behind me with glow eye and outstretched hand. 
have you get it. he pant. will you not let me look at it also. i swear that i will return it. 
get what. return what. ask. 
that which you have in your hand. it will help u both. he stretch out his long bird like talon tremble with eagerness. 
i could never find it he continue. he have secrete it about his person. therefore i shoot him but nevertheless i be unable to obtain it. 
gunga das have quite forget his little fiction about the rifle bullet. i receive the information perfectly calmly. morality be blunt by consort with the dead who be alive. 
what on earth be you rave about. what be it you want me to give you. 
the piece of paper in the notebook. it will help u both. oh you fool. you fool. can you not see what it will do for u. we shall escape. 
his voice rise almost to a scream and he dance with excitement before me. i own i be move at the chance of my get away. 
don t skip. explain yourself. do you mean to say that this slip of paper will help u. what doe it mean. 
read it aloud. read it aloud. i beg and i pray you to read it aloud. 
i do so. gunga das listen delightedly and draw an irregular line in the sand with his finger. 
see now. it be the length of his gun barrel without the stock. i have those barrel. four gun barrel out from the place where i catch crow. straight out. do you follow me. then three leave. ah. how well i remember when that man work it out night after night. then nine out and so on. out be always straight before you across the quicksand. he tell me so before i kill him. 
but if you know all this why didn t you get out before. 
i do not know it. he tell me that he be work it out a year and a half ago and how he be work it out night after night when the boat have go away and he could get out near the quicksand safely. then he say that we would get away together. but i be afraid that he would leave me behind one night when he have work it all out and so i shoot him. besides it be not advisable that the men who once get in here should escape. only i and i be a brahmin. 
the prospect of escape have bring gunga das s caste back to him. he stand up walk about and gesticulate violently. eventually i manage to make him talk soberly and he tell me how this englishman have spend six month night after night in explore inch by inch the passage across the quicksand. how he have declare it to be simplicity itself up to within about twenty yard of the river bank after turn the flank of the leave horn of the horseshoe. this much he have evidently not complete when gunga das shoot him with his own gun. 
in my frenzy of delight at the possibility of escape i recollect shake hand effusively with gunga das after we have decide that we be to make an attempt to get away that very night. it be weary work wait throughout the afternoon. 
about ten o clock a far a i could judge when the moon have just rise above the lip of the crater gunga das make a move for his burrow to bring out the gun barrel whereby to measure our path. all the other wretched inhabitant have retire to their lair long ago. the guardian boat drift downstream some hour before and we be utterly alone by the crow clump. gunga das while carry the gun barrel let slip the piece of paper which be to be our guide. i stoop down hastily to recover it and a i do so i be aware that the diabolical brahmin be aim a violent blow at the back of my head with the gun barrel. it be too late to turn round. i must have receive the blow somewhere on the nape of my neck. a hundred thousand fiery star dance before my eye and i fell forward senseless at the edge of the quicksand. 
when i recover consciousness the moon be go down and i be sensible of intolerable pain in the back of my head. gunga das have disappear and my mouth be full of blood. i lay down again and pray that i might die without more ado. then the unreasoning fury which i have before mention lay hold upon me and i stagger inland toward the wall of the crater. it seem that some one be call to me in a whisper sahib. sahib. sahib. exactly a my bearer use to call me in the morning i fancy that i be delirious until a handful of sand fell at my foot. then i look up and saw a head peer down into the amphitheatre the head of dunnoo my dog boy who attend to my collie. a soon a he have attract my attention he hold up his hand and show a rope. i motion stagger to and fro for the while that he should throw it down. it be a couple of leather punkah rope knot together with a loop at one end. i slip the loop over my head and under my arm. hear dunnoo urge something forward. be conscious that i be be drag face downward up the steep sand slope and the next instant find myself choke and half faint on the sand hill overlook the crater. dunnoo with his face ashy grey in the moonlight implore me not to stay but to get back to my tent at once. 
it seem that he have track pornic s footprint fourteen mile across the sand to the crater. have return and tell my servant who flatly refuse to meddle with any one white or black once fall into the hideous village of the dead. whereupon dunnoo have take one of my pony and a couple of punkah rope return to the crater and haul me out a i have describe. 
to cut a long story short dunnoo be now my personal servant on a gold mohur a month a sum which i still think far too little for the service he ha render. nothing on earth will induce me to go near that devilish spot again or to reveal it whereabouts more clearly than i have do. of gunga das i have never find a trace nor do i wish to do. my sole motive in give this to be publish be the hope that some one may possibly identify from the detail and the inventory which i have give above the corpse of the man in the olive green hunt suit. 
the man who would be king. 
brother to a prince and fellow to a beggar if he be find worthy. 
the law a quote lay down a fair conduct of life and one not easy to follow. i have be fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstance which prevent either of u find out whether the other be worthy. i have still to be brother to a prince though i once come near to kinship with what might have be a veritable king and be promise the reversion of a kingdom army law court revenue and policy all complete. but to day i greatly fear that my king be dead and if i want a crown i must go hunt it for myself. 
the begin of everything be in a railway train upon the road to mhow from ajmir. there have be a deficit in the budget which necessitate travel not second class which be only half a dear a first class but by intermediate which be very awful indeed. there be no cushion in the intermediate class and the population be either intermediate which be eurasian or native which for a long night journey be nasty or loafer which be amuse though intoxicate. intermediate do not buy from refreshment room. they carry their food in bundle and pot and buy sweet from the native sweetmeat seller and drink the roadside water. this be why in hot weather intermediate be take out of the carriage dead and in all weather be most properly look down upon. 
my particular intermediate happen to be empty till i reach nasirabad when the big black browed gentleman in shirt sleeve enter and follow the custom of intermediate pass the time of day. he be a wanderer and a vagabond like myself but with an educate taste for whisky. he tell tale of thing he have see and do of out of the way corner of the empire into which he have penetrate and of adventure in which he risk his life for a few day food. 
if india be fill with men like you and me not know more than the crow where they d get their next day s ration it isn t seventy million of revenue the land would be pay it s seven hundred million say he. and a i look at his mouth and chin i be dispose to agree with him. 
we talk politics the politics of loaferdom that see thing from the under side where the lath and plaster be not smooth off and we talk postal arrangement because my friend want to send a telegram back from the next station to ajmir the turn off place from the bombay to the mhow line a you travel westward. my friend have no money beyond eight anna which he want for dinner and i have no money at all owe to the hitch in the budget before mention. further i be go into a wilderness where though i should resume touch with the treasury there be no telegraph office. i be therefore unable to help him in any way. 
we might threaten a station master and make him send a wire on tick say my friend but that d mean inquiry for you and for me and i_ ve get my hand full these day. do you say you be travel back along this line within any day. 
within ten i say. 
can t you make it eight. say he. mine be rather urgent business. 
i can send your telegram within ten day if that will serve you i say. 
i couldn t trust the wire to fetch him now i think of it. it s this way. he leaf delhi on the rd for bombay. that mean he ll be run through ajmir about the night of the rd. 
but i m go into the indian desert i explain. 
well and good say he. you ll be change at marwar junction to get into jodhpore territory you must do that and he ll be come through marwar junction in the early morning of the th by the bombay mail. can you be at marwar junction on that time. t win t be inconvenience you because i know that there s precious few picking to be get out of these central india state even though you pretend to be correspondent of the backwoodsman. 
have you ever try that trick. i ask. 
again and again but the resident find you out and then you get escort to the border before you ve time to get your knife into them. but about my friend here. i must give him a word o mouth to tell him what s come to me or else he win t know where to go. i would take it more than kind of you if you be to come out of central india in time to catch him at marwar junction and say to him he ha go south for the week. he ll know what that mean. he s a big man with a red beard and a great swell he be. you ll find him sleep like a gentleman with all his luggage round him in a second class apartment. but don t you be afraid. slip down the window and say he ha go south for the week and he ll tumble. it s only cut your time of stay in those part by two day. i ask you a a strange go to the west he say with emphasis. 
where have you come from. say i. 
from the east say he and i be hop that you will give him the message on the square for the sake of my mother a well a your own. 
englishman be not usually soften by appeal to the memory of their mother. but for certain reason which will be fully apparent i saw fit to agree. 
it s more than a little matter say he and that s why i ask you to do it and now i know that i can depend on you do it. a second class carriage at marwar junction and a red haired man asleep in it. you ll be sure to remember. i get out at the next station and i must hold on there till he come or send me what i want. 
i ll give the message if i catch him i say and for the sake of your mother a well a mine i ll give you a word of advice. don t try to run the central india state just now a the correspondent of the backwoodsman. there s a real one knock about here and it might lead to trouble. 
thank you say he simply. and when will the swine be go. i can t starve because he s ruin my work. i want to get hold of the degumber rajah down here about his father s widow and give him a jump. 
what do he do to his father s widow then. 
fill her up with red pepper and slippered her to death a she hang from a beam. i find that out myself and i m the only man that would dare go into the state to get hush money for it. they ll try to poison me same a they do in chortumna when i go on the loot there. but you ll give the man at marwar junction my message. 
he get out at a little roadside station and i reflect. i have hear more than once of men personate correspondent of newspaper and bleed small native state with threat of exposure but i have never meet any of the caste before. they lead a hard life and generally die with great suddenness. the native state have a wholesome horror of english newspaper which may throw light on their peculiar method of government and do their best to choke correspondent with champagne or drive them out of their mind with four in hand barouche. they do not understand that nobody care a straw for the internal administration of native state so long a oppression and crime be keep within decent limit and the ruler be not drug drink or diseased from one end of the year to the other. they be the dark place of the earth full of unimaginable cruelty touch the railway and the telegraph on one side and on the other the day of harun al raschid. when i leave the train i do business with diver king and in eight day pass through many change of life. sometimes i wear dress clothe and consort with prince and politicals drink from crystal and eat from silver. sometimes i lay out upon the grind and devour what i could get from a plate make of leaf and drink the run water and sleep under the same rug a my servant. it be all in the day s work. 
then i head for the great indian desert upon the proper date a i have promise and the night mail set me down at marwar junction where a funny little happy go lucky native manage railway run to jodhpore. the bombay mail from delhi make a short halt at marwar. she arrive just a i get in and i have just time to hurry to her platform and go down the carriage. there be only one second class on the train. i slip the window and look down upon a flame red beard half cover by a railway rug. that be my man fast asleep and i dig him gently in the rib. he wake with a grunt and i saw his face in the light of the lamp. it be a great and shin face. 
ticket again. say he. 
no say i. i be to tell you that he be go south for the week. he ha go south for the week. 
the train have begin to move out. the red man rub his eye. he ha go south for the week he repeat. now that s just like his impidence. do he say that i be to give you anything. cause i win t. 
he didn t i say and drop away and watch the red light die out in the dark. it be horribly cold because the wind be blow off the sand. i climb into my own train not an intermediate carriage this time and go to sleep. 
if the man with the beard have give me a rupee i should have keep it a a memento of a rather curious affair. but the consciousness of have do my duty be my only reward. 
late on i reflect that two gentleman like my friend could not do any good if they foregather and personate correspondent of newspaper and might if they blackmail one of the little rat trap state of central india or southern rajputana get themselves into serious difficulty. i therefore take some trouble to describe them a accurately a i could remember to people who would be interest in deport them. and succeed so i be late inform in have them head back from the degumber border. 
then i become respectable and return to an office where there be no king and no incident outside the daily manufacture of a newspaper. a newspaper office seem to attract every conceivable sort of person to the prejudice of discipline. zenana mission lady arrive and beg that the editor will instantly abandon all his duty to describe a christian prize give in a back slum of a perfectly inaccessible village. colonel who have be overpassed for command sit down and sketch the outline of a series of ten twelve or twenty four lead article on seniority versus selection. missionary wish to know why they have not be permit to escape from their regular vehicle of abuse and swear at a brother missionary under special patronage of the editorial we. strand theatrical company troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their advertisement but on their return from new zealand or tahiti will do so with interest. inventor of patent punka pull machine carriage coupling and unbreakable sword and axletree call with specification in their pocket and hour at their disposal. tea company enter and elaborate their prospectus with the office pen. secretary of ball committee clamour to have the glory of their last dance more fully describe. strange lady rustle in and say i want a hundred lady s card print at once_ please which be manifestly part of an editor s duty. and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramp the grand trunk road make it his business to ask for employment a a proof reader. and all the time the telephone bell be ring madly and king be be kill on the continent and empire be say you re another and mister gladstone be call down brimstone upon the british dominion and the little black copyboys be whine _kaa pi chay ha yeh_. copy want. like tire bee and most of the paper be a blank a modred s shield. 
but that be the amuse part of the year. there be six other month when none ever come to call and the thermometer walk inch by inch up to the top of the glass and the office be darken to just above read light and the press machine be red hot to touch and nobody write anything but account of amusement in the hill station or obituary notice. then the telephone become a tinkle terror because it tell you of the sudden death of men and woman that you know intimately and the prickly heat cover you with a garment and you sit down and write. a slight increase of sickness be report from the khuda janta khan district. the outbreak be purely sporadic in it nature and thank to the energetic effort of the district authority be now almost at an end. it be however with deep regret we record the death etc. 
then the sickness really break out and the le record and report the good for the peace of the subscriber. but the empire and the king continue to divert themselves a selfishly a before and the foreman think that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty four hour and all the people at the hill station in the middle of their amusement say good gracious. why can t the paper be sparkle. i m sure there s plenty go on up here. 
that be the dark half of the moon and a the advertisement say must be experience to be appreciate. 
it be in that season and a remarkably evil season that the paper begin run the last issue of the week on saturday night which be to say sunday morning after the custom of a london paper. this be a great convenience for immediately after the paper be put to bed the dawn would low the thermometer from degree to almost degree for half an hour and in that chill you have no idea how cold be degree on the grass until you begin to pray for it a very tire man could get off to sleep ere the heat rouse him. 
one saturday night it be my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone. a king or courtier or a courtesan or a community be go to die or get a new constitution or do something that be important on the other side of the world and the paper be to be hold open till the late possible minute in order to catch the telegram. 
it be a pitchy black night a stifle a a june night can be and the loo_ the red hot wind from the westward be boom among the tinder dry tree and pretend that the rain be on it heel. now and again a spot of almost boil water would fall on the dust with the flop of a frog but all our weary world know that be only pretence. it be a shade cool in the press room than the office so i sit there while the type tick and click and the night jar hoot at the window and the all but naked compositor wipe the sweat from their forehead and call for water. the thing that be keep u back whatever it be would not come off though the loo drop and the last type be set and the whole round earth stand still in the choke heat with it finger on it lip to wait the event. i drowse and wonder whether the telegraph be a bless and whether this die man or struggle people might be aware of the inconvenience the delay be cause. there be no special reason beyond the heat and worry to make tension but a the clock hand creep up to three o clock and the machine spin their fly wheel two and three time to see that all be in order before i say the word that would set them off i could have shriek aloud. 
then the roar and rattle of the wheel shiver the quiet into little bit. i rise to go away but two men in white clothe stand in front of me. the first one say it s him. the second say so it be. and they both laugh almost a loudly a the machinery roar and mop their forehead. we seed there be a light burn across the road and we be sleep in that ditch there for coolness and i say to my friend here the office be open. let s come along and speak to him a turn u back from degumber state say the small of the two. he be the man i have meet in the mhow train and his fellow be the red beard man of marwar junction. there be no mistake the eyebrow of the one or the beard of the other. 
i be not please because i wish to go to sleep not to squabble with loafer. what do you want. i ask. 
half an hour s talk with you cool and comfortable in the office say the red beard man. we d like some drink the contrack doesn t begin yet peachey so you needn t look but what we really want be advice. we don t want money. we ask you a a favour because we find out you do u a bad turn about degumber state. 
i lead from the press room to the stifle office with the map on the wall and the red haired man rub his hand. that s something like say he. this be the proper shop to come to. now sir let me introduce you to brother peachey carnehan that s him and brother daniel dravot that be me and the le say about our profession the good for we have be most thing in our time soldier sailor compositor photographer proof reader street preacher and correspondent of the backwoodsman when we think the paper want one. carnehan be sober and so be i. look at u first and see that s sure. it will save you cut into my talk. we ll take one of your cigar apiece and you shall see u light up. 
i watch the test. the men be absolutely sober so i give them each a tepid whisky and soda. 
well and good say carnehan of the eyebrow wipe the froth from his moustache. let me talk now dan. we have be all over india mostly on foot. we have be boiler fitter engine driver petty contractor and all that and we have decide that india isn t big enough for such a u. 
they certainly be too big for the office. dravot s beard seem to fill half the room and carnehan s shoulder the other half a they sit on the big table. carnehan continue. the country isn t half work out because they that govern it win t let you touch it. they spend all their bless time in govern it and you can t lift a spade nor chip a rock nor look for oil nor anything like that without all the government say leave it alone and let u govern. therefore such a it be we will let it alone and go away to some other place where a man isn t crowd and can come to his own. we be not little men and there be nothing that we be afraid of except drink and we have sign a contrack on that. therefore we be go away to be king. 
king in our own right mutter dravot. 
yes of course i say. you ve be tramp in the sun and it s a very warm night and hadn t you good sleep over the notion. come to morrow. 
neither drink nor sunstruck say dravot. we have sleep over the notion half a year and require to see book and atlas and we have decide that there be only one place now in the world that two strong men can sar a whack. they call it kafiristan. by my reckon it s the top right hand corner of afghanistan not more than three hundred mile from peshawar. they have two and thirty heathen idol there and we ll be the thirty third and fourth. it s a mountaineous country the woman of those part be very beautiful. 
but that be provide against in the contrack say carnehan. neither woman nor liqu or daniel. 
and that s all we know except that no one ha go there and they fight and in any place where they fight a man who know how to drill men can always be a king. we shall go to those part and say to any king we find d you want to vanquish your foe. and we will show him how to drill men. for that we know good than anything else. then we will subvert that king and seize his throne and establish a dy nasty. 
you ll be cut to piece before you re fifty mile across the border i say. you have to travel through afghanistan to get to that country. it s one mass of mountain and peak and glacier and no englishman ha be through it. the people be utter brute and even if you reach them you couldn t do anything. 
that s more like say carnehan. if you could think u a little more mad we would be more please. we have come to you to know about this country to read a book about it and to be show map. we want you to tell u that we be fool and to show u your book. he turn to the bookcase. 
be you at all in earnest. i say. 
a little say dravot sweetly. a big a map a you have get even if it s all blank where kafiristan be and any book you ve get. we can read though we aren t very educate. 
i uncase the big thirty two mile to the inch map of india and two small frontier map haul down volume inf kan of the encyclopaedia britannica and the men consult them. 
see here. say dravot his thumb on the map. up to jagdallak peachey and me know the road. we be there with robert s army. we ll have to turn off to the right at jagdallak through laghmann territory. then we get among the hill fourteen thousand foot fifteen thousand it will be cold work there but it don t look very far on the map. 
i hand him wood on the source of the oxus. carnehan be deep in the encyclopaedia. 
they re a mix lot say dravot reflectively. and it win t help u to know the name of their tribe. the more tribe the more they ll fight and the good for u. from jagdallak to ashang. h mm. 
but all the information about the country be a sketchy and inaccurate a can be i protest. no one know anything about it really. here s the file of the unite service institute. read what bellew say. 
blow bellew. say carnehan. dan they re a stinkin lot of heathen but this book here say they think they re relate to u english. 
i smoke while the men pour over raverty wood the map and the encyclopaedia. 
there be no use your wait say dravot politely. it s about four o clock now. we ll go before six o clock if you want to sleep and we win t steal any of the paper. don t you sit up. we re two harmless lunatic and if you come to morrow even down to the serai we ll say good bye to you. 
you be two fool i answer. you ll be turn back at the frontier or cut up the minute you set foot in afghanistan. do you want any money or a recommendation down country. i can help you to the chance of work next week. 
next week we shall be hard at work ourselves thank you say dravot. it isn t so easy be a king a it look. when we ve get our kingdom in go order we ll let you know and you can come up and help u govern it. 
would two lunatic make a contrack like that. say carnehan with subdue pride show me a greasy half sheet of notepaper on which be write the follow. i copy it then and there a a curiosity. 
this contract between me and you persuing witnesseth in the name of god amen and so forth. 
one. that me and you will settle this matter together. i. e. to be king of kafiristan. 
two. that you and me will not while this matter be be settle look at any liquor nor any woman black white or brown so a to get mix up with one or the other harmful. 
three. that we conduct ourselves with dignity and discretion and if one of u get into trouble the other will stay by him. 
sign by you and me this day. peachey taliaferro carnehan. daniel dravot. both gentleman at large. 
there be no need for the last article say carnehan blush modestly. but it look regular. now you know the sort of men that loafer be we be loafer dan until we get out of india and do you think that we would sign a contrack like that unless we be in earnest. we have keep away from the two thing that make life worth have. 
you win t enjoy your life much long if you be go to try this idiotic adventure. don t set the office on fire i say and go away before nine o clock. 
i leave them still pore over the map and make note on the back of the contrack. be sure to come down to the serai to morrow be their part word. 
the kumharsen serai be the great foursquare sink of humanity where the string of camel and horse from the north load and unload. all the nationality of central asia may be find there and most of the folk of india proper. balkh and bokhara there meet bengal and bombay and try to draw eye teeth. you can buy pony turquoise persian pussy cat saddle bag fat tail sheep and musk in the kumharsen serai and get many strange thing for nothing. in the afternoon i go down to see whether my friend intend to keep their word or be lie there drink. 
a priest attire in fragment of ribbon and rag stalk up to me gravely twist a child s paper whirligig. behind him be his servant bend under the load of a crate of mud toy. the two be load up two camel and the inhabitant of the serai watch them with shriek of laughter. 
the priest be mad say a horse dealer to me. he be go up to kabul to sell toy to the amir. he will either be raise to honour or have his head cut off. he come in here this morning and ha be behave madly ever since. 
the witless be under the protection of god stammer a flat cheek usbeg in break hindi. they foretell future event. 
would they could have foretell that my caravan would have be cut up by the shinwaris almost within shadow of the pas. grunt the eusufzai agent of a rajputana trade house whose good have be divert into the hand of other robber just across the border and whose misfortune be the laugh stock of the bazaar. ohé priest whence come you and whither do you go. 
from roum have i come shout the priest wave his whirligig. from roum blow by the breath of a hundred devil across the sea. o thief robber liar the bless of pir khan on pig dog and perjurer. who will take the protect of god to the north to sell charm that be never still to the amir. the camel shall not gall the son shall not fall sick and the wife shall remain faithful while they be away of the men who give me place in their caravan. who will assist me to slipper the king of the roos with a golden slipper with a silver heel. the protection of pir khan be upon his labour. he spread out the skirt of his gabardine and pirouette between the line of tether horse. 
there start a caravan from peshawar to kabul in twenty day huzrut_ say the eusufzai trader. my camel go therewith. do thou also go and bring u good luck. 
i will go even now. shout the priest. i will depart upon my wing camel and be at peshawar in a day. ho. hazar mir khan he yell to his servant drive out the camel but let me first mount my own. 
he leap on the back of his beast a it kneel and turn round to me cry come thou also sahib a little along the road and i will sell thee a charm an amulet that shall make thee king of kafiristan. 
then the light break upon me and i follow the two camel out of the serai till we reach open road and the priest halt. 
what d you think o that. say he in english. carnehan can t talk their patter so i ve make him my servant. he make a handsome servant. t isn t for nothing that i ve be knock about the country for fourteen year. didn t i do that talk neat. we ll hitch on to a caravan at peshawar till we get to jagdallak and then we ll see if we can get donkey for our camel and strike into kafiristan. whirligig for the amir o lor. put your hand under the camelbags and tell me what you feel. 
i felt the butt of a martini and another and another. 
twenty of em say dravot placidly. twenty of em and ammunition to correspond under the whirligig and the mud doll. 
heaven help you if you be catch with those thing. i say. a martini be worth her weight in silver among the pathan. 
fifteen hundred rupee of capital every rupee we could beg borrow or steal be invest on these two camel say dravot. we win t get catch. we re go through the khaiber with a regular caravan. who d touch a poor mad priest. 
have you get everything you want. i ask overcome with astonishment. 
not yet but we shall soon. give u a memento of your kindness brother. you do me a service yesterday and that time in marwar. half my kingdom shall you have a the say be. i slip a small charm compass from my watch chain and hand it up to the priest. 
good bye say dravot give me hand cautiously. it s the last time we ll shake hand with an englishman these many day. shake hand with him carnehan he cry a the second camel pass me. 
carnehan lean down and shake hand. then the camel pass away along the dusty road and i be leave alone to wonder. my eye could detect no failure in the disguise. the scene in the serai prove that they be complete to the native mind. there be just the chance therefore that carnehan and dravot would be able to wander through afghanistan without detection. but beyond they would find death certain and awful death. 
ten day late a native correspondent give me the news of the day from peshawar wind up his letter with. there ha be much laughter here on account of a certain mad priest who be go in his estimation to sell petty gaud and insignificant trinket which he ascribe a great charm to h. h. the amir of bokhara. he pass through peshawar and associate himself to the second summer caravan that go to kabul. the merchant be please because through superstition they imagine that such mad fellow bring good fortune. 
the two then be beyond the border. i would have pray for them but that night a real king die in europe and demand an obituary notice. 
the wheel of the world swing through the same phase again and again. summer pass and winter thereafter and come and pass again. the daily paper continue and i with it and upon the third summer there fell a hot night a night issue and a strain wait for something to be telegraph from the other side of the world exactly a have happen before. a few great men have die in the past two year the machine work with more clatter and some of the tree in the office garden be a few foot tall. but that be all the difference. 
i pass over to the press room and go through just such a scene a i have already describe. the nervous tension be strong than it have be two year before and i felt the heat more acutely. at three o clock i cry print off and turn to go when there creep to my chair what be leave of a man. he be bend into a circle his head be sink between his shoulder and he move his foot one over the other like a bear. i could hardly see whether he walk or crawl this rag wrap whine cripple who address me by name cry that he be come back. can you give me a drink. he whimper. for the lord s sake give me a drink. 
i go back to the office the man follow with groan of pain and i turn up the lamp. 
don t you know me. he gasp drop into a chair and he turn his draw face surmount by a shock of gray hair to the light. 
i look at him intently. once before have i see eyebrow that meet over the nose in an inch broad black band but for the life of me i could not tell where. 
i don t know you i say hand him the whisky. what can i do for you. 
he take a gulp of the spirit raw and shiver in spite of the suffocate heat. 
i ve come back he repeat. and i be the king of kafiristan me and dravot crown king we be. in this office we settle it you set there and give u the book. i be peachey peachey taliaferro carnehan and you ve be set here ever since o lord. 
i be more than a little astonish and express my feeling accordingly. 
it s true say carnehan with a dry cackle nurse his foot which be wrap in rag true a gospel. king we be with crown upon our head me and dravot poor dan oh poor poor dan that would never take advice not though i beg of him. 
take the whisky i say and take your own time. tell me all you can recollect of everything from begin to end. you get across the border on your camel dravot dress a a mad priest and you his servant. do you remember that. 
i ain t mad yet but i shall be that way soon. of course i remember. keep look at me or maybe my word will go all to piece. keep look at me in my eye and don t say anything. 
i lean forward and look into his face a steadily a i could. he drop one hand upon the table and i grasp it by the wrist. it be twist like a bird s claw and upon the back be a rag red diamond shape scar. 
no don t look there. look at me_ say carnehan. that come afterward but for the lord s sake don t distrack me. we leave with that caravan me and dravot play all sort of antic to amuse the people we be with. dravot use to make u laugh in the evening when all the people be cook their dinner cook their dinner and. what do they do then. they light little fire with spark that go into dravot s beard and we all laugh fit to die. little red fire they be go into dravot s big red beard so funny. his eye leave mine and he smile foolishly. 
you go a far a jagdallak with that caravan i say at a venture after you have light those fire. to jagdallak where you turn off to try to get into kafiristan. 
no we didn t neither. what be you talk about. we turn off before jagdallak because we hear the road be good. but they wasn t good enough for our two camel mine and dravot s. when we leave the caravan dravot take off all his clothe and mine too and say we would be heathen because the kafir didn t allow mohammedan to talk to them. so we dress betwixt and between and such a sight a daniel dravot i never saw yet nor expect to see again. he burn half his beard and sling a sheepskin over his shoulder and shave his head into pattern. he shave mine too and make me wear outrageous thing to look like a heathen. that be in a most mountaineous country and our camel couldn t go along any more because of the mountain. they be tall and black and come home i saw them fight like wild goat there be lot of goat in kafiristan. and these mountain they never keep still no more than the goat. always fight they be and don t let you sleep at night. 
take some more whisky i say very slowly. what do you and daniel dravot do when the camel could go no farther because of the rough road that lead into kafiristan. 
what do which do. there be a party call peachey taliaferro carnehan that be with dravot. shall i tell you about him. he die out there in the cold. slap from the bridge fell old peachey turn and twist in the air like a penny whirligig that you can sell to the amir. no. they be two for three ha penny those whirligig or i be much mistake and woeful sore. and then these camel be no use and peachey say to dravot for the lord s sake let s get out of this before our head be chop off and with that they kill the camel all among the mountain not have anything in particular to eat but first they take off the box with the gun and the ammunition till two men come along drive four mule. dravot up and dance in front of them sing sell me four mule. say the first man if you be rich enough to buy you be rich enough to rob. but before ever he could put his hand to his knife dravot break his neck over his knee and the other party run away. so carnehan load the mule with the rifle that be take off the camel and together we start forward into those bitter cold mountaineous part and never a road broad than the back of your hand. 
he pause for a moment while i ask him if he could remember the nature of the country through which he have journey. 
i be tell you a straight a i can but my head isn t a good a it might be. they drive nail through it to make me hear good how dravot die. the country be mountaineous and the mule be most contrary and the inhabitant be disperse and solitary. they go up and up and down and down and that other party carnehan be implore of dravot not to sing and whistle so loud for fear of bring down the tremenjus avalanche. but dravot say that if a king couldn t sing it wasn t worth be king and whack the mule over the rump and never take no heed for ten cold day. we come to a big level valley all among the mountain and the mule be near dead so we kill them not have anything in special for them or u to eat. we sit upon the box and play odd and even with the cartridge that be jolt out. 
then ten men with bow and arrow run down that valley chase twenty men with bow and arrow and the row be tremenjus. they be fair men fair than you or me with yellow hair and remarkable well build. say dravot unpack the gun this be the begin of the business. we ll fight for the ten men and with that he fire two rifle at the twenty men and drop one of them at two hundred yard from the rock where he be sit. the other men begin to run but carnehan and dravot sit on the box pick them off at all range up and down the valley. then we go up to the ten men that have run across the snow too and they fire a footy little arrow at u. dravot he shoot above their head and they all fall down flat. then he walk over them and kick them and then he lift them up and shake hand all round to make them friendly like. he call them and give them the box to carry and wave his hand for all the world a though he be king already. they take the box and him across the valley and up the hill into a pine wood on the top where there be half a dozen big stone idol. dravot he go to the big a fellow they call imbra and lay a rifle and a cartridge at his foot rub his nose respectfully with his own nose pat him on the head and nod his head and say that s all right. i m in the know too and these old jimjams be my friend. then he open his mouth and point down it and when the first man bring him food he say no. and when the second man bring him food he say no. but when one of the old priest and the bos of the village bring him food he say yes. very haughty and eat it slow. that be how we come to our first village without any trouble just a though we have tumble from the sky. but we tumble from one of those damn rope bridge you see and you couldn t expect a man to laugh much after that. 
take some more whisky and go on i say. that be the first village you come into. how do you get to be king. 
i wasn t king say carnehan. dravot he be the king and a handsome man he look with the gold crown on his head and all. him and the other party stay in that village and every morning dravot sit by the side of old imbra and the people come and worship. that be dravot s order. then a lot of men come into the valley and carnehan dravot pick them off with the rifle before they know where they be and run down into the valley and up again the other side and find another village same a the first one and the people all fall down flat on their face and dravot say now what be the trouble between you two village. and the people point to a woman a fair a you or me that be carry off and dravot take her back to the first village and count up the dead eight there be. for each dead man dravot pour a little milk on the grind and wave his arm like a whirligig and that s all right say he. then he and carnehan take the big bos of each village by the arm and walk them down the valley and show them how to scratch a line with a spear right down the valley and give each a sod of turf from both side of the line. then all the people come down and shout like the devil and all and dravot say go and dig the land and be fruitful and multiply which they do though they didn t understand. then we ask the name of thing in their lingo bread and water and fire and idol and such. and dravot lead the priest of each village up to the idol and say he must sit there and judge the people and if anything go wrong he be to be shoot. 
next week they be all turn up the land in the valley a quiet a bee and much pretty and the priest hear all the complaint and tell dravot in dumb show what it be about. that s just the begin say dravot. they think we re god. he and carnehan pick out twenty good men and show them how to click off a rifle and form four and advance in line. and they be very please to do so and clever to see the hang of it. then he take out his pipe and his baccy pouch and leaf one at one village and one at the other and off we two go to see what be to be do in the next valley. that be all rock and there be a little village there and carnehan say send em to the old valley to plant and take em there and give em some land that wasn t take before. they be a poor lot and we blood em with a kid before let em into the new kingdom. that be to impress the people and then they settle down quiet and carnehan go back to dravot who have get into another valley all snow and ice and most mountaineous. there be no people there and the army get afraid. so dravot shoot one of them and go on till he find some people in a village and the army explain that unless the people want to be kill they have good not shoot their little matchlock for they have matchlock. we make friend with the priest and i stay there alone with two of the army teach the men how to drill. and a thunder big chief come across the snow with kettledrum and horn twang because he hear there be a new god kick about. carnehan sight for the brown of the men half a mile across the snow and wing one of them. then he send a message to the chief that unless he wish to be kill he must come and shake hand with me and leave his arm behind. the chief come alone first and carnehan shake hand with him and whirl his arm about same a dravot use and very much surprise that chief be and stroke my eyebrow. then carnehan go alone to the chief and ask him in dumb show if he have an enemy he hat. i have say the chief. so carnehan weed out the pick of his men and set the two of the army to show them drill and at the end of two week the men can manoeuvre about a well a volunteer. so he march with the chief to a great big plain on the top of a mountain and the chief s men rush into a village and take it. we three martini fire into the brown of the enemy. so we take that village too and i give the chief a rag from my coat and say occupy till i come. which be scriptural. by way of a reminder when me and the army be eighteen hundred yard away i drop a bullet near him stand on the snow and all the people fall flat on their face. then i send a letter to dravot wherever he be by land or by sea. 
at the risk of throw the creature out of train i interrupt. how could you write a letter up yonder. 
the letter. oh. the letter. keep look at me between the eye please. it be a string talk letter that we d learn the way of it from a blind beggar in the punjab. 
i remember that there have once come to the office a blind man with a knot twig and a piece of string which he wind round the twig accord to some cipher of his own. he could after the lapse of day or hour repeat the sentence which he have reel up. he have reduce the alphabet to eleven primitive sound and try to teach me his method but i could not understand. 
i send that letter to dravot say carnehan and tell him to come back because this kingdom be grow too big for me to handle. and then i strike for the first valley to see how the priest be work. they call the village we take along with the chief bashkai and the first village we take er heb. the priest at er heb be do all right but they have a lot of pending case about land to show me and some men from another village have be fire arrow at night. i go out and look for that village and fire four round at it from a thousand yard. that use all the cartridge i care to spend and i wait for dravot who have be away two or three month and i keep my people quiet. 
one morning i hear the devil s own noise of drum and horn and dan dravot march down the hill with his army and a tail of hundred of men and which be the most amaze a great gold crown on his head. my gord carnehan say daniel this be a tremenjus business and we ve get the whole country a far a it s worth have. i be the son of alexander by queen semiramis and you re my young brother and a god too. it s the big thing we ve ever see. i ve be march and fight for six week with the army and every footy little village for fifty mile ha come in rejoiceful. and more than that i ve get the key of the whole show a you ll see and i ve get a crown for you. i tell em to make two of em at a place call shu where the gold lie in the rock like suet in mutton. gold i ve see and turquoise i ve kick out of the cliff and there s garnet in the sand of the river and here s a chunk of amber that a man bring me. call up all the priest and here take your crown. 
one of the men open a black hair bag and i slip the crown on. it be too small and too heavy but i wear it for the glory. hammer gold it be five pound weight like a hoop of a barrel. 
peachey say dravot we don t want to fight no more. the craft s the trick so help me. and he bring forward that same chief that i leave at bashkai billy fish we call him afterward because he be so like billy fish that drive the big tank engine at mach on the bolan in the old day. shake hand with him say dravot. and i shake hand and nearly drop for billy fish give me the grip. i say nothing but try him with the fellow craft grip. he answer all right and i try the master s grip but that be a slip. a fellow craft he be. i say to dan. doe he know the word. he doe say dan and all the priest know. it s a miracle. the chief and the priest can work a fellow craft lodge in a way that s very like ours and they ve cut the mark on the rock but they don t know the third degree and they ve come to find out. it s gord s truth. i ve know these long year that the afghan know up to the fellow craft degree but this be a miracle. a god and a grand master of the craft be i and a lodge in the third degree i will open and we ll raise the head priest and the chief of the village. 
it s against all the law i say hold a lodge without warrant from any one. and you know we never hold office in any lodge. 
it s a master stroke o policy say dravot. it mean run the country a easy a a four wheel bogie on a down grade. we can t stop to inquire now or they ll turn against u. i ve forty chief at my heel and pass and raise accord to their merit they shall be. billet these men on the village and see that we run up a lodge of some kind. the temple of imbra will do for a lodge room. the woman must make apron a you show them. i ll hold a levee of chief to night and lodge to morrow. 
i be fair run off my leg but i wasn t such a fool a not to see what a pull this craft business give u. i show the priest family how to make apron of the degree but for dravot s apron the blue border and mark be make of turquoise lump on white hide not cloth. we take a great square stone in the temple for the master s chair and little stone for the officer s chair and paint the black pavement with white square and do what we could to make thing regular. 
at the levee which be hold that night on the hillside with big bonfire dravot give out that him and me be god and son of alexander and pass grand master in the craft and be come to make kafiristan a country where every man should eat in peace and drink in quiet and specially obey u. then the chief come round to shake hand and they be so hairy and white and fair it be just shake hand with old friend. we give them name accord a they be like men we have know in india billy fish holly dilworth pikky kergan that be bazaar master when i be at mhow and so on and so on. 
_the most amaze miracle be at lodge next night. one of the old priest be watch u continuous and i felt uneasy for i know we d have to fudge the ritual and i didn t know what the men know. the old priest be a strange come in from beyond the village of bashkai. the minute dravot put on the master s apron that the girl have make for him the priest fetch a whoop and a howl and try to overturn the stone that dravot be sit on. it s all up now i say. that come of meddle with the craft without warrant. dravot never wink an eye not when ten priest take and tilt over the grand master s chair which be to say the stone of imbra. the priest begin rub the bottom end of it to clear away the black dirt and presently he show all the other priest the master s mark same a be on dravot s apron cut into the stone. not even the priest of the temple of imbra know it be there. the old chap fall flat on his face at dravot s foot and kiss em. luck again say dravot across the lodge to me. they say it s the miss mark that no one could understand the why of. we re more than safe now. then he bang the butt of his gun for a gavel and say by virtue of the authority vest in me by my own right hand and the help of peachey i declare myself grand master of all freemasonry in kafiristan in this the mother lodge o the country and king of kafiristan equally with peachey. at that he put on his crown and i put on mine i be do senior warden and we open the lodge in most ample form. it be an amaze miracle. the priest move in lodge through the first two degree almost without tell a if the memory be come back to them. after that peachey and dravot raise such a be worthy high priest and chief of far off village. billy fish be the first and i can tell you we scar the soul out of him. it be not in any way accord to ritual but it serve our turn. we didn t raise more than ten of the big men because we didn t want to make the degree common. and they be clamour to be raise. 
in another six month say dravot we ll hold another communication and see how you be work. then he ask them about their village and learn that they be fight one against the other and be sick and tire of it. and when they wasn t do that they be fight with the mohammedan. you can fight those when they come into our country say dravot. tell off every tenth man of your tribe for a frontier guard and send two hundred at a time to this valley to be drill. nobody be go to be shoot or spear any more so long a he doe well and i know that you win t cheat me because you re white people son of alexander and not like common black mohammedan. you be my people and by god say he run off into english at the end i ll make a damn fine nation of you or i ll die in the make. 
i can t tell all we do for the next six month because dravot do a lot i couldn t see the hang of and he learn their lingo in a way i never could. my work be to help the people plough and now and again go out with some of the army and see what the other village be do and make em throw rope bridge across the ravine which cut up the country horrid. dravot be very kind to me but when he walk up and down in the pine wood pull that bloody red beard of his with both fist i know he be think plan i could not advise about and i just wait for order. 
but dravot never show me disrespect before the people. they be afraid of me and the army but they love dan. he be the best of friend with the priest and the chief. but any one could come across the hill with a complaint and dravot would hear him out fair and call four priest together and say what be to be do. he use to call in billy fish from bashkai and pikky kergan from shu and an old chief we call kafuzelum it be like enough to his real name and hold council with em when there be any fight to be do in small village. that be his council of war and the four priest of bashkai shu khawak and madora be his privy council. between the lot of em they send me with forty men and twenty rifle and sixty men carry turquoise into the ghorband country to buy those hand make martini rifle that come out of the amir s workshop at kabul from one of the amir s herati regiment that would have sell the very teeth out of their mouth for turquoise. 
i stay in ghorband a month and give the governor there the pick of my basket for hush money and bribe the colonel of the regiment some more and between the two and the tribe people we get more than a hundred hand make martini a hundred good kohat jezails that ll throw to six hundred yard and forty man load of very bad ammunition for the rifle. i come back with what i have and distribute em among the men that the chief send in to me to drill. dravot be too busy to attend to those thing but the old army that we first make help me and we turn out five hundred men that could drill and two hundred that know how to hold arm pretty straight. even those cork screw hand make gun be a miracle to them. dravot talk big about powder shop and factory walk up and down in the pine wood when the winter be come on. 
i win t make a nation say he. i ll make an empire. these men aren t nigger. they re english. look at their eye look at their mouth. look at the way they stand up. they sit on chair in their own house. they re the lose tribe or something like it and they ve grow to be english. i ll take a census in the spring if the priest don t get frighten. there must be a fair two million of em in these hill. the village be full o little child. two million people two hundred and fifty thousand fight men and all english. they only want the rifle and a little drill. two hundred and fifty thousand men ready to cut in on russia s right flank when she try for india. peachey man he say chew his beard in great hunk we shall be emperor emperor of the earth. rajah brooke will be a suckle to u. i ll treat with the viceroy on equal term. i ll ask him to send me twelve pick english twelve that i know of to help u govern a bite. there s mackray serjeant pensioner at segowli many s the good dinner he s give me and his wife a pair of trouser. there s donkin the warder of tounghoo jail. there s hundred that i could lay my hand on if i be in india. the viceroy shall do it for me. i ll send a man through in the spring for those men and i ll write for a dispensation from the grand lodge for what i ve do a grand master. that and all the sniders that ll be throw out when the native troop in india take up the martini. they ll be wear smooth but they ll do for fight in these hill. twelve english a hundred thousand sniders run through the amir s country in driblet i d be content with twenty thousand in one year and we d be an empire. when everything be shipshape i d hand over the crown this crown i m wear now to queen victoria on my knee and she d say rise up sir daniel dravot. oh it s big. it s big i tell you. but there s so much to be do in every place bashkai khawak shu and everywhere else. 
what be it. i say. there be no more men come in to be drill this autumn. look at those fat black cloud. they re bring the snow. 
it isn t that say daniel put his hand very hard on my shoulder. and i don t wish to say anything that s against you for no other live man would have follow me and make me what i be a you have do. you re a first class commander in chief and the people know you. but it s a big country and somehow you can t help me peachey in the way i want to be help. 
go to your blast priest then. i say and i be sorry when i make that remark but it do hurt me sore to find daniel talk so superior when i d drill all the men and do all he tell me. 
don t let s quarrel peachey say daniel without curse. you re a king too and the half of this kingdom be yours. but can t you see peachey we want clever men than u now three or four of em that we can scatter about for our deputy. it s a hugeous great state and i can t always tell the right thing to do and i haven t time for all i want to do and here s the winter come on and all. he put half his beard into his mouth all red like the gold of his crown. 
i m sorry daniel say i. i ve do all i could. i ve drill the men and show the people how to stack their oat good. and i ve bring in those tinware rifle from ghorband but i know what you re drive at. i take it king always feel oppress that way. 
there s another thing too say dravot walk up and down. the winter s come and these people win t be give much trouble and if they do we can t move about. i want a wife. 
for gord s sake leave the woman alone. i say. we ve both get all the work we can though i be a fool. remember the contrack and keep clear o woman. 
the contrack only last till such time a we be king. and king we have be these month past say dravot weigh his crown in his hand. you go get a wife too peachey a nice strappin plump girl that ll keep you warm in the winter. they re pretty than english girl and we can take the pick of em. boil em once or twice in hot water and they ll come out like chicken and ham. 
don t tempt me. i say. i will not have any dealing with a woman not till we be a dam side more settle than we be now. i ve be do the work o two men and you ve be do the work of three. let s lie off a bite and see if we can get some good tobacco from afghan country and run in some good liquor. and no woman. 
who s talk o woman. say dravot. i say wife a queen to breed a king s son for the king. a queen out of the strong tribe that ll make them your blood brother and that ll lie by your side and tell you all the people think about you and their own affair. that s what i want. 
do you remember that bengali woman i keep at mogul serai when i be a plate layer. say i. a fat lot o good she be to me. she teach me the lingo and one or two other thing. but what happen. she run away with the station master s servant and half my month s pay. then she turn up at dadur junction in tow of a half caste and have the impidence to say i be her husband all among the driver in the run shed too. 
we ve do with that say dravot. these woman be white than you or me and a queen i will have for the winter month. 
for the last time o ask dan do not_ i say. it ll only bring u harm. the bible say that king ain t to waste their strength on woman specially when they ve get a new raw kingdom to work over. 
for the last time of answer i will say dravot and he go away through the pine tree look like a big red devil the sun be on his crown and beard and all. 
but get a wife be not a easy a dan think. he put it before the council and there be no answer till billy fish say that he d good ask the girl. dravot damn them all round. what s wrong with me. he shout stand by the idol imbra. be i a dog or be i not enough of a man for your wench. haven t i put the shadow of my hand over this country. who stop the last afghan raid. it be me really but dravot be too angry to remember. who buy your gun. who repair the bridge. who s the grand master of the sign cut in the stone. say he and he thump his hand on the block that he use to sit on in lodge and at council which open like lodge always. billy fish say nothing and no more do the others. keep your hair on dan say i and ask the girl. that s how it s do at home and these people be quite english. 
the marriage of the king be a matter of state say dan in a white hot rage for he could feel i hope that he be go against his good mind. he walk out of the council room and the others sit still look at the grind. 
billy fish say i to the chief of bashkai what s the difficulty here. a straight answer to a true friend. 
you know say billy fish. how should a man tell you who know everything. how can daughter of men marry god or devil. it s not proper. 
i remember something like that in the bible. but if after see u a long a they have they still believe we be god it wasn t for me to undeceive them. 
a god can do anything say i. if the king be fond of a girl he ll not let her die. she ll have to say billy fish. there be all sort of god and devil in these mountain and now and again a girl marry one of them and isn t see any more. besides you two know the mark cut in the stone. only the god know that. we think you be men till you show the sign of the master. 
i wish then that we have explain about the loss of the genuine secret of a master mason at the first go off. but i say nothing. all that night there be a blow of horn in a little dark temple half way down the hill and i hear the girl cry fit to die. one of the priest tell u that she be be prepare to marry the king. 
i ll have no nonsense of that kind say dan. i don t want to interfere with your custom but i ll take my own wife. the girl s a little bite afraid say the priest. she think she s go to die and they be a hearten of her up down in the temple. 
hearten her very tender then say dravot or i ll hearten you with the butt of a gun so you ll never want to be hearten again. he lick his lip do dan and stay up walk about more than half the night think of the wife that he be go to get in the morning. i wasn t any mean comfortable for i know that dealing with a woman in foreign part though you be a crown king twenty time over could not but be risky. i get up very early in the morning while dravot be asleep and i saw the priest talk together in whisper and the chief talk together too and they look at me out of the corner of their eye. 
what be up fish. i say to the bashkai man who be wrap up in his fur and look splendid to behold. 
i can t rightly say say he. but if you can make the king drop all this nonsense about marriage you ll be do him and me and yourself a great service. 
that i do believe say i. but sure you know billy a well a me have fight against and for u that the king and me be nothing more than two of the fine men that god almighty ever make. nothing more i do assure you. 
that may be say billy fish and yet i should be sorry if it be. he sink his head upon his great fur cloak for a minute and think. king say he be you man or god or devil i ll stick by you to day. i have twenty of my men with me and they will follow me. we ll go to bashkai until the storm blow over. 
a little snow have fall in the night and everything be white except the greasy fat cloud that blow down and down from the north. dravot come out with his crown on his head swing his arm and stamp his foot and look more please than punch. 
for the last time drop it dan say i in a whisper. billy fish here say that there will be a row. 
a row among my people. say dravot. not much. peachey you re a fool not to get a wife too. where s the girl. say he with a voice a loud a the bray of a jackass. call up all the chief and priest and let the emperor see if his wife suit him. 
there be no need to call any one. they be all there lean on their gun and spear round the clear in the centre of the pine wood. a lot of priest go down to the little temple to bring up the girl and the horn blow fit to wake the dead. billy fish saunter round and get a close to daniel a he could and behind him stand his twenty men with matchlock not a man of them under six foot. i be next to dravot and behind me be twenty men of the regular army. up come the girl and a strap wench she be cover with silver and turquoise but white a death and look back every minute at the priest. 
she ll do say dan look her over. what s to be afraid of lass. come and kiss me. he put his arm round her. she shut her eye give a bite of a squeak and down go her face in the side of dan s flame red beard. 
the slut s bite me. say he clap his hand to his neck and sure enough his hand be red with blood. billy fish and two of his matchlock men catch hold of dan by the shoulder and drag him into the bashkai lot while the priest howl in their lingo neither god nor devil but a man. i be all take aback for a priest cut at me in front and the army behind begin fire into the bashkai men. 
god a mighty. say dan what be the mean o this. 
come back. come away. say billy fish. ruin and mutiny be the matter. we ll break for bashkai if we can. 
i try to give some sort of order to my men the men o the regular army but it be no use so i fire into the brown of em with an english martini and drill three beggar in a line. the valley be full of shout howl creature and every soul be shriek not a god nor a devil but only a man. the bashkai troop stick to billy fish all they be worth but their matchlock wasn t half a good a the kabul breech loader and four of them drop. dan be bellow like a bull for he be very wrathy. and billy fish have a hard job to prevent him run out at the crowd. 
we can t stand say billy fish. make a run for it down the valley. the whole place be against u. the matchlock men run and we go down the valley in spite of dravot. he be swear horrible and cry out that he be a king. the priest roll great stone on u and the regular army fire hard and there wasn t more than six men not count dan billy fish and me that come down to the bottom of the valley alive. 
then they stop fire and the horn in the temple blow again. come away for gord s sake come away. say billy fish. they ll send runner out to all the village before ever we get to bashkai. i can protect you there but i can t do anything now. 
my own notion be that dan begin to go mad in his head from that hour. he star up and down like a stick pig. then he be all for walk back alone and kill the priest with his bare hand. which he could have do. an emperor be i say daniel and next year i shall be a knight of the queen. 
all right dan say i. but come along now while there s time. 
it s your fault say he for not look after your army good. there be mutiny in the midst and you didn t know you damn engine drive plate lay missionary s pas hunt hound. he sit upon a rock and call me every foul name he could lay tongue to. i be too heart sick to care though it be all his foolishness that bring the smash. 
i m sorry dan say i but there s no account for native. this business be our fifty seven. maybe we ll make something out of it yet when we ve get to bashkai. 
let s get to bashkai then say dan and by god when i come back here again i ll sweep the valley so there isn t a bug in a blanket leave. 
we walk all that day and all that night dan be stump up and down on the snow chew his beard and mutter to himself. 
there s no hope o get clear say billy fish. the priest have send runner to the village to say that you be only men. why didn t you stick on a god till thing be more settle. i m a dead man say billy fish and he throw himself down on the snow and begin to pray to his god. 
next morning we be in a cruel bad country all up and down no level grind at all and no food either. the six bashkai men look at billy fish hungry way a if they want to ask something but they never say a word. at noon we come to the top of a flat mountain all cover with snow and when we climb up into it behold there be an army in position wait in the middle. 
the runner have be very quick say billy fish with a little bite of a laugh. they be wait for u. 
three or four men begin to fire from the enemy s side and a chance shoot take daniel in the calf of the leg. that bring him to his sens. he look across the snow at the army and see the rifle that we have bring into the country. 
we re do for say he. they be englishman these people and it s my blast nonsense that ha bring you to this. get back billy fish and take your men away. you ve do what you could and now cut for it. carnehan say he shake hand with me and go along with billy. maybe they win t kill you. i ll go and meet em alone. it s me that do it. me the king. 
go. say i. go to hell dan. i m with you here. billy fish you clear out and we two will meet those folk. 
i m a chief say billy fish quite quiet. i stay with you. my men can go. 
the bashkai fellow didn t wait for a second word but run off and dan and me and billy fish walk across to where the drum be drum and the horn be horn. it be cold awful cold. i ve get that cold in the back of my head now. there s a lump of it there. 
the punka cooly have go to sleep. two kerosene lamp be blaze in the office and the perspiration pour down my face and splash on the blotter a i lean forward. carnehan be shiver and i fear that his mind might go. i wipe my face take a fresh grip of the piteously mangle hand and say what happen after that. 
the momentary shift of my eye have break the clear current. 
what be you please to say. whine carnehan. they take them without any sound. not a little whisper all along the snow not though the king knock down the first man that set hand on him not though old peachey fire his last cartridge into the brown of em. not a single solitary sound do those swine make. they just close up tight and i tell you their fur stink. there be a man call billy fish a good friend of u all and they cut his throat sir then and there like a pig. and the king kick up the bloody snow and say we ve have a dash fine run for our money. what s come next. but peachey peachey taliaferro i tell you sir in confidence a betwixt two friend he lose his head sir. no he didn t neither. the king lose his head so he do all along o one of those cunning rope bridge. kindly let me have the paper cutter sir. it tilt this way. they march him a mile across that snow to a rope bridge over a ravine with a river at the bottom. you may have see such. they prod him behind like an ox. damn your eye. say the king. d you suppose i can t die like a gentleman. he turn to peachey peachey that be cry like a child. i ve bring you to this peachey say he. bring you out of your happy life to be kill in kafiristan where you be late commander in chief of the emperor s force. say you forgive me peachey. i do say peachey. fully and freely do i forgive you dan. shake hand peachey say he. i m go now. out he go look neither right nor leave and when he be plumb in the middle of those dizzy dance rope cut you beggar he shout. and they cut and old dan fell turn round and round and round twenty thousand mile for he take half an hour to fall till he strike the water and i could see his body catch on a rock with the gold crown close beside. 
but do you know what they do to peachey between two pine tree. they crucify him sir a peachey s hand will show. they use wooden peg for his hand and foot. but he didn t die. he hang there and scream and they take him down next day and say it be a miracle that he wasn t dead. they take him down poor old peachey that hadn t do them any harm that hadn t do them any. 
he rock to and fro and weep bitterly wipe his eye with the back of his scar hand and moan like a child for some ten minute. 
they be cruel enough to fee him up in the temple because they say he be more of a god than old daniel that be a man. then they turn him out on the snow and tell him to go home and peachey come home in about a year beg along the road quite safe. for daniel dravot he walk before and say come along peachey. it s a big thing we re do. the mountain they dance at night and the mountain they try to fall on peachey s head but dan he hold up his hand and peachey come along bend double. he never let go of dan s hand and he never let go of dan s head. they give it to him a a present in the temple to remind him not to come again. and though the crown be pure gold and peachey be starve never would peachey sell the same. you know dravot sir. you know right worshipful brother dravot. look at him now. 
he fumble in the mass of rag round his bend waist. bring out a black horsehair bag embroider with silver thread. and shake therefrom on to my table the dry wither head of daniel dravot. the morning sun that have long be pal the lamp strike the red beard and blind sink eye. strike too a heavy circlet of gold stud with raw turquoise that carnehan place tenderly on the batter temple. 
you be old now say carnehan the emperor in his abit a he live the king of kafiristan with his crown upon his head. poor old daniel that be a monarch once. 
i shudder for in spite of defacement manifold i recognise the head of the man of marwar junction. carnehan rise to go. i attempt to stop him. he be not fit to walk abroad. let me take away the whisky and give me a little money he gasp. i be a king once. i ll go to the deputy commissioner and ask to set in the poorhouse till i get my health. no thank you i can t wait till you get a carriage for me. i ve urgent private affair in the south at marwar. 
he shamble out of the office and depart in the direction of the deputy commissioner s house. that day at noon i have occasion to go down the blind hot mall and i saw a crook man crawl along the white dust of the roadside his hat in his hand quaver dolorously after the fashion of street singer at home. there be not a soul in sight and he be out of all possible earshot of the house. and he sing through his nose turn his head from right to leave. 
the son of man go forth to war a golden crown to gain. his blood red banner stream afar who follow in his train. 
i wait to hear no more but put the poor wretch into my carriage and drive him off to the near missionary for eventual transfer to the asylum. he repeat the hymn twice while he be with me whom he do not in the least recognise and i leave him sing it to the missionary. 
two day late i inquire after his welfare of the superintendent of the asylum. 
he be admit suffer from sunstroke. he die early yesterday morning say the superintendent. be it true that he be half an hour bareheaded in the sun at midday. 
yes say i. but do you happen to know if he have anything upon him by any chance when he die. 
not to my knowledge say the superintendent. 
and there the matter rest. 
the fine story in the world. 
o ever the knightly year be go with the old world to the grave i be a king in babylon and you be a christian slave. w. e. henley. 
his name be charlie mears. he be the only son of his mother who be a widow and he live in the north of london come into the city every day to work in a bank. he be twenty year old and suffer from aspiration. i meet him in a public billiard saloon where the marker call him by his give name and he call the marker bull eye. charley explain a little nervously that he have only come to the place to look on and since look on at game of skill be not a cheap amusement for the young i suggest that charlie should go back to his mother. 
that be our first step toward good acquaintance. he would call on me sometimes in the evening instead of run about london with his fellow clerk. and before long speak of himself a a young man must he tell me of his aspiration which be all literary. he desire to make himself an undying name chiefly through verse though he be not above send story of love and death to the drop a penny in the slot journal. it be my fate to sit still while charlie read me poem of many hundred line and bulky fragment of play that would surely shake the world. my reward be his unreserved confidence and the self revelation and trouble of a young man be almost a holy a those of a maiden. charlie have never fall in love but be anxious to do so on the first opportunity. he believe in all thing good and all thing honorable but at the same time be curiously careful to let me see that he know his way about the world a befit a bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week. he rhyme dive with love and moon with june and devoutly believe that they have never so be rhyme before. the long lame gap in his play he fill up with hasty word of apology and description and sweep on see all that he intend to do so clearly that he esteem it already do and turn to me for applause. 
i fancy that his mother do not encourage his aspiration and i know that his write table at home be the edge of his washstand. this he tell me almost at the outset of our acquaintance. when he be ravage my bookshelf and a little before i be implore to speak the truth a to his chance of write something really great you know. maybe i encourage him too much for one night he call on me his eye flame with excitement and say breathlessly. 
do you mind can you let me stay here and write all this even. i win t interrupt you i win t really. there s no place for me to write in at my mother s. 
what s the trouble. i say know well what that trouble be. 
i ve a notion in my head that would make the most splendid story that be ever write. do let me write it out here. it s such a notion. 
there be no resist the appeal. i set him a table. he hardly thank me but plunge into the work at once. for half an hour the pen scratch without stop. then charlie sigh and tug his hair. the scratch grow slow there be more erasure and at last cease. the fine story in the world would not come forth. 
it look such awful rot now he say mournfully. and yet it seem so good when i be think about it. what s wrong. 
i could not dishearten him by say the truth. so i answer. perhaps you don t feel in the mood for write. 
yes i do except when i look at this stuff. ugh. 
read me what you ve do i say. he read and it be wondrous bad and he pause at all the specially turgid sentence expect a little approval. for he be proud of those sentence a i know he would be. 
it need compression i suggest cautiously. 
i hate cut my thing down. i don t think you could alter a word here without spoil the sense. it read good aloud than when i be write it. 
charlie you re suffer from an alarm disease afflict a numerous class. put the thing by and tackle it again in a week. 
i want to do it at once. what do you think of it. 
how can i judge from a half write tale. tell me the story a it lie in your head. 
charlie tell and in the tell there be everything that his ignorance have so carefully prevent from escape into the write word. i look at him and wonder whether it be possible that he do not know the originality the power of the notion that have come in his way. it be distinctly a notion among notion. men have be puff up with pride by notion not a tithe a excellent and practicable. but charlie babble on serenely interrupt the current of pure fancy with sample of horrible sentence that he purpose to use. i hear him out to the end. it would be folly to allow his idea to remain in his own inept hand when i could do so much with it. not all that could be do indeed. but oh so much. 
what do you think. he say at last. i fancy i shall call it the story of a ship. 
i think the idea s pretty good. but you win t be able to handle it for ever so long. now i. 
would it be of any use to you. would you care to take it. i should be proud say charlie promptly. 
there be few thing sweet in this world than the guileless hot head intemperate open admiration of a junior. even a woman in her blind devotion doe not fall into the gait of the man she adore tilt her bonnet to the angle at which he wear his hat or interlard her speech with his pet oath. and charlie do all these thing. still it be necessary to salve my conscience before i possess myself of charlie s thought. 
let s make a bargain. i ll give you a five for the notion i say. charlie become a bank clerk at once. 
oh that s impossible. between two pal you know if i may call you so and speak a a man of the world i couldn t. take the notion if it s any use to you. i ve heap more. 
he have none know this good than i but they be the notion of other men. 
look at it a a matter of business between men of the world i return. five pound will buy you any number of poetry book. business be business and you may be sure i shouldn t give that price unless. 
oh if you put it that way say charlie visibly move by the think of the book. the bargain be clinch with an agreement that he should at unstated interval come to me with all the notion that he possess should have a table of his own to write at and unquestioned right to inflict upon me all his poem and fragment of poem. then i say now tell me how you come by this idea. 
it come by itself. charlie s eye open a little. 
yes but you tell me a great deal about the hero that you must have read before somewhere. 
i haven t any time for read except when you let me sit here and on sunday i m on my bicycle or down the river all day. there s nothing wrong about the hero be there. 
tell me again and i shall understand clearly. you say that your hero go pirate. how do he live. 
he be on the low deck of this ship thing that i be tell you about. 
what sort of ship. 
it be the kind row with oar and the sea spurt through the oar hole and the men row sit up to their knee in water. then there s a bench run down between the two line of oar and an overseer with a whip walk up and down the bench to make the men work. 
how do you know that. 
it s in the tale. there s a rope run overhead loop to the upper deck for the overseer to catch hold of when the ship roll. when the overseer miss the rope once and fall among the rower remember the hero laugh at him and get lick for it. he s chain to his oar of course the hero. 
how be he chain. 
with an iron band round his waist fix to the bench he sit on and a sort of handcuff on his leave wrist chain him to the oar. he s on the low deck where the bad men be send and the only light come from the hatchway and through the oar hole. can t you imagine the sunlight just squeeze through between the handle and the hole and wobble about a the ship move. 
i can but i can t imagine your imagine it. 
how could it be any other way. now you listen to me. the long oar on the upper deck be manage by four men to each bench the low one by three and the low of all by two. remember it s quite dark on the low deck and all the men there go mad. when a man dy at his oar on that deck he isn t throw overboard but cut up in his chain and stuff through the oar hole in little piece. 
why. i demand amaze not so much at the information a the tone of command in which it be fling out. 
to save trouble and to frighten the others. it need two overseer to drag a man s body up to the top deck. and if the men at the low deck oar be leave alone of course they d stop row and try to pull up the bench by all stand up together in their chain. 
you ve a most provident imagination. where have you be read about galley and galley slave. 
nowhere that i remember. i row a little when i get the chance. but perhaps if you say so i may have read something. 
he go away shortly afterward to deal with bookseller and i wonder how a bank clerk age twenty could put into my hand with a profligate abundance of detail all give with absolute assurance the story of extravagant and bloodthirsty adventure riot piracy and death in unnamed sea. he have lead his hero a desperate dance through revolt against the overseas to command of a ship of his own and ultimate establishment of a kingdom on an island somewhere in the sea you know. and delight with my paltry five pound have go out to buy the notion of other men that these might teach him how to write. i have the consolation of know that this notion be mine by right of purchase and i think that i could make something of it. 
when next he come to me he be drink royally drink on many poet for the first time reveal to him. his pupil be dilate his word tumble over each other and he wrap himself in quotation. most of all be he drink with longfellow. 
isn t it splendid. isn t it superb. he cry after hasty greeting. listen to this. 
wouldst thou so the helmsman answer know the secret of the sea. only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. 
by gum. 
only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. 
he repeat twenty time walk up and down the room and forget me. but i can understand it too he say to himself. i don t know how to thank you for that five. and this. listen. 
i remember the black wharf and the ship and the sea tide toss free and the spanish sailor with beard lip and the beauty and mystery of the ship and the magic of the sea. 
i haven t brave any danger but i feel a if i know all about it. 
you certainly seem to have a grip of the sea. have you ever see it. 
when i be a little chap i go to brighton once. we use to live in coventry though before we come to london. i never saw it. 
when descend on the atlantic the gigantic storm wind of the equinox. 
he shake me by the shoulder to make me understand the passion that be shake himself. 
when that storm come he continue i think that all the oar in the ship that i be talk about get break and the rower have their chest smash in by the buck oar head. by the way have you do anything with that notion of mine yet. 
no. i be wait to hear more of it from you. tell me how in the world you re so certain about the fitting of the ship. you know nothing of ship. 
i don t know. it s a real a anything to me until i try to write it down. i be think about it only last night in bed after you have loan me treasure island. and i make up a a whole lot of new thing to go into the story. 
what sort of thing. 
about the food the men eat. rotten fig and black bean and wine in a skin bag pass from bench to bench. 
be the ship build so long ago a that. 
a what. i don t know whether it be long ago or not. it s only a notion but sometimes it seem just a real a if it be true. do i bother you with talk about it. 
not in the least. do you make up anything else. 
yes but it s nonsense. charlie flush a little. 
never mind. let s hear about it. 
well i be think over the story and after awhile i get out of bed and write down on a piece of paper the sort of stuff the men might be suppose to scratch on their oar with the edge of their handcuff. it seem to make the thing more lifelike. it be so real to me y know. 
have you the paper on you. 
ye e but what s the use of show it. it s only a lot of scratch. all the same we might have em reproduce in the book on the front page. 
i ll attend to those detail. show me what your men write. 
he pull out of his pocket a sheet of note paper with a single line of scratch upon it and i put this carefully away. 
what be it suppose to mean in english. i say. 
oh i don t know. perhaps it mean i m beastly tire. it s great nonsence he repeat but all those men in the ship seem a real people to me. do do something to the notion soon. i should like to see it write and print. 
but all you ve tell me would make a long book. 
make it then. you ve only to sit down and write it out. 
give me a little time. have you any more notion. 
not just now. i m read all the book i ve buy. they re splendid. 
when he have leave i look at the sheet of note paper with the inscription upon it. then i take my head tenderly between both hand to make certain that it be not come off or turn round. then. but there seem to be no interval between quit my room and find myself argue with a policeman outside a door mark private in a corridor of the british museum. all i demand a politely a possible be the greek antiquity man. the policeman know nothing except the rule of the museum and it become necessary to forage through all the house and office inside the gate. an elderly gentleman call away from his lunch put an end to my search by hold the note paper between finger and thumb and sniff at it scornfully. 
what doe this mean. h mm say he. so far a i can ascertain it be an attempt to write extremely corrupt greek on the part here he glare at me with intention of an extremely illiterate ah person. he read slowly from the paper pollock erckman tauchnitz henniker four name familiar to me. 
can you tell me what the corruption be suppose to mean the gist of the thing. i ask. 
i have be many time overcome with weariness in this particular employment. that be the mean. he return me the paper and i flee without a word of thank explanation or apology. 
i might have be excuse for forget much. to me of all men have be give the chance to write the most marvelous tale in the world nothing le than the story of a greek galley slave a tell by himself. small wonder that his dream have seem real to charlie. the fate that be so careful to shut the door of each successive life behind u have in this case be neglectful and charlie be look though that he do not know where never man have be permit to look with full knowledge since time begin. above all he be absolutely ignorant of the knowledge sell to me for five pound. and he would retain that ignorance for bank clerk do not understand metempsychosis and a sound commercial education doe not include greek. he would supply me here i caper among the dumb god of egypt and laugh in their batter face with material to make my tale sure so sure that the world would hail it a an impudent and vamp fiction. and i i alone would know that it be absolutely and literally true. i i alone hold this jewel to my hand for the cut and polish. therefore i dance again among the god till a policeman saw me and take step in my direction. 
it remain now only to encourage charlie to talk and here there be no difficulty. but i have forget those accurse book of poetry. he come to me time after time a useless a a surcharge phonograph drink on byron shelley or keats. know now what the boy have be in his past life and desperately anxious not to lose one word of his babble i could not hide from him my respect and interest. he misconstrue both into respect for the present soul of charlie mears to whom life be a new a it be to adam and interest in his reading. and stretch my patience to break point by recite poetry not his own now but that of others. i wish every english poet blot out of the memory of mankind. i blaspheme the mighty name of song because they have draw charlie from the path of direct narrative and would late spur him to imitate them. but i choke down my impatience until the first flood of enthusiasm should have spend itself and the boy return to his dream. 
what s the use of my tell you what i think when these chap write thing for the angel to read. he growl one even. why don t you write something like theirs. 
i don t think you re treat me quite fairly i say speak under strong restraint. 
i ve give you the story he say shortly replunging into lara. 
but i want the detail. 
the thing i make up about that damn ship that you call a galley. they re quite easy. you can just make em up yourself. turn up the gas a little i want to go on read. 
i could have break the gas globe over his head for his amaze stupidity. i could indeed make up thing for myself do i only know what charlie do not know that he know. but since the door be shut behind me i could only wait his youthful pleasure and strive to keep him in good temper. one minute s want of guard might spoil a priceless revelation. now and again he would toss his book aside he keep them in my room for his mother would have be shock at the waste of good money have she see them and launch into his sea dream. again i curse all the poet of england. the plastic mind of the bank clerk have be overlay color and distort by that which he have read and the result a deliver be a confuse tangle of other voice most like the mutter song through a city telephone in the busy part of the day. 
he talk of the galley his own galley have he but know it with illustration borrow from the bride of abydos. he point the experience of his hero with quotation from the corsair and throw in deep and desperate moral reflection from cain and manfred expect me to use them all. only when the talk turn on longfellow be the jar cross current dumb and i know that charlie be speak the truth a he remember it. 
what do you think of this. i say one even a soon a i understand the medium in which his memory work best and before he could expostulate read him the whole of the saga of king olaf. 
he listen open mouth flush his hand drum on the back of the sofa where he lay till i come to the song of emar tamberskelver and the verse. 
emar then the arrow take from the loosen string answer. that be norway break neath thy hand o king. 
he gasp with pure delight of sound. 
that s good than byron a little i venture. 
good. why it s true. how could he have know. 
i go back and repeat. 
what be that. say olaf stand on the quarter deck something hear i like the strand of a shatter wreck. 
how could he have know how the ship crash and the oar rip out and go z zzp all along the line. why only the other night. but go back please and read the skerry of shriek again. 
no i m tire. let s talk. what happen the other night. 
i have an awful nightmare about that galley of ours. i dream i be drown in a fight. you see we run alongside another ship in harbor. the water be dead still except where our oar whip it up. you know where i always sit in the galley. he speak haltingly at first under a fine english fear of be laugh at. 
no. that s news to me i answer meekly my heart begin to beat. 
on the fourth oar from the bow on the right side on the upper deck. there be four of u at the oar all chain. i remember watch the water and try to get my handcuff off before the row begin. then we close up on the other ship and all their fight men jump over our bulwark and my bench break and i be pin down with the three other fellow on top of me and the big oar jam across our back. 
well. charlie s eye be alive and alight. he be look at the wall behind my chair. 
i don t know how we fight. the men be trample all over my back and i lay low. then our rower on the leave side tie to their oar you know begin to yell and back water. i could hear the water sizzle and we spin round like a cockchafer and i know lie where i be that there be a galley come up bow on to ram u on the leave side. i could just lift up my head and see her sail over the bulwark. we want to meet her bow to bow but it be too late. we could only turn a little bite because the galley on our right have hook herself on to u and stop our move. then by gum. there be a crash. our leave oar begin to break a the other galley the move one y know stick her nose into them. then the low deck oar shoot up through the deck plank but first and one of them jump clean up into the air and come down again close to my head. 
how be that manage. 
the move galley s bow be plunk them back through their own oarholes and i could hear the devil of a shindy in the deck below. then her nose catch u nearly in the middle and we tilt sideways and the fellow in the right hand galley unhitch their hook and rope and throw thing on to our upper deck arrow and hot pitch or something that sting and we go up and up and up on the leave side and the right side dip and i twist my head round and saw the water stand still a it top the right bulwark and then it curl over and crash down on the whole lot of u on the right side and i felt it hit my back and i wake. 
one minute charlie. when the sea top the bulwark what do it look like. i have my reason for ask. a man of my acquaintance have once go down with a leak ship in a still sea and have see the water level pause for an instant ere it fell on the deck. 
it look just like a banjo string draw tight and it seem to stay there for year say charlie. 
exactly. the other man have say. 
it look like a silver wire lay down along the bulwark and i think it be never go to break. he have pay everything except the bare life for this little valueless piece of knowledge and i have travel ten thousand weary mile to meet him and take his knowledge at second hand. but charlie the bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week he who have never be out of sight of a london omnibus know it all. it be no consolation to me that once in his life he have be force to die for his gain. i also must have die score of time but behind me because i could have use my knowledge the door be shut. 
and then. i say try to put away the devil of envy. 
the funny thing be though in all the mess i didn t feel a bite astonish or frighten. it seem a if i d be in a good many fight because i tell my next man so when the row begin. but that cad of an overseer on my deck wouldn t unloose our chain and give u a chance. he always say that we d all be set free after a battle but we never be. we never be. charlie shake his head mournfully. 
what a scoundrel. 
i should say he be. he never give u enough to eat and sometimes we be so thirsty that we use to drink salt water. i can taste that salt water still. 
now tell me something about the harbor where the fight be fight. 
i didn t dream about that. i know it be a harbor though. because we be tie up to a ring on a white wall and all the face of the stone under water be cover with wood to prevent our ram get chip when the tide make u rock. 
that s curious. our hero command the galley. didn t he. 
didn t he just. he stand by the bow and shout like a good un. he be the man who kill the overseer. 
but you be all drown together charlie weren t you. 
i can t make that fit quite he say with a puzzle look. the galley must have go down with all hand and yet i fancy that the hero go on live afterward. perhaps he climb into the attack ship. i wouldn t see that of course. i be dead you know. 
he shiver slightly and protest that he could remember no more. 
i do not press him further but to satisfy myself that he lay in ignorance of the working of his own mind deliberately introduce him to mortimer collins s transmigration and give him a sketch of the plot before he open the page. 
what rot it all be. he say frankly at the end of an hour. i don t understand his nonsense about the red planet mar and the king and the rest of it. chuck me the longfellow again. 
i hand him the book and write out a much a i could remember of his description of the sea fight appeal to him from time to time for confirmation of fact or detail. he would answer without raise his eye from the book a assuredly a though all his knowledge lay before flint on the print page. i speak under the normal key of my voice that the current might not be break and i know that he be not aware of what he be say for his thought be out on the sea with longfellow. 
charlie i ask when the rower on the galley mutiny how do they kill their overseer. 
tear up the bench and brain em. that happen when a heavy sea be run. an overseer on the low deck slip from the centre plank and fell among the rower. they choke him to death against the side of the ship with their chain hand quite quietly and it be too dark for the other overseer to see what have happen. when he ask he be pull down too and choke and the low deck fight their way up deck by deck with the piece of the break bench bang behind em. how they howl. 
and what happen after that. 
i don t know. the hero go away red hair and red beard and all. that be after he have capture our galley i think. 
the sound of my voice irritate him and he motion slightly with his leave hand a a man doe when interruption jar. 
you never tell me he be redheaded before or that he capture your galley i say after a discreet interval. 
charlie do not raise his eye. 
he be a red a a red bear say he abstractedly. he come from the north. they say so in the galley when he look for rower not slave but free men. afterward year and year afterward news come from another ship or else he come back his lip move in silence. he be rapturously retasting some poem before him. 
where have he be then. i be almost whisper that the sentence might come gentle to whichever section of charlie s brain be work on my behalf. 
to the beach the long and wonderful beach. be the reply after a minute of silence. 
to furdurstrandi. i ask tingle from head to foot. 
yes to furdurstrandi he pronounce the word in a new fashion and i too saw the voice fail. 
do you know what you have say. i shout incautiously. 
he lift his eye fully rouse now. no. he snap. i wish you d let a chap go on read. hark to this. 
but othere the old sea captain he neither pause nor stir till the king listen and then once more take up his pen and write down every word. 
and to the king of the saxon in witness of the truth raise his noble head he stretch his brown hand and say behold this walrus tooth. 
by jove what chap those must have be to go sail all over the shop never know where they d fetch the land. hah. 
charlie i plead if you ll only be sensible for a minute or two i ll make our hero in our tale every inch a good a othere. 
umph. longfellow write that poem. i don t care about write thing any more. i want to read. he be thoroughly out of tune now and rag over my own ill luck i leave him. 
conceive yourself at the door of the world s treasure house guard by a child an idle irresponsible child play knuckle bone on whose favor depend the gift of the key and you will imagine one half my torment. till that even charlie have speak nothing that might not lie within the experience of a greek galley slave. but now or there be no virtue in book he have talk of some desperate adventure of the viking of thorfin karlsefne s sail to wineland which be america in the ninth or tenth century. the battle in the harbor he have see. and his own death he have describe. but this be a much more startle plunge into the past. be it possible that he have skip half a dozen life and be then dimly remember some episode of a thousand year late. it be a madden jumble and the bad of it be that charlie mears in his normal condition be the last person in the world to clear it up. i could only wait and watch but i go to bed that night full of the wild imagine. there be nothing that be not possible if charlie s detestable memory only hold good. 
i might rewrite the saga of thorfin karlsefne a it have never be write before might tell the story of the first discovery of america myself the discoverer. but i be entirely at charlie s mercy and so long a there be a three and six penny bohn volume within his reach charlie would not tell. i dare not curse him openly. i hardly dare jog his memory for i be deal with the experience of a thousand year ago tell through the mouth of a boy of to day. and a boy of to day be affect by every change of tone and gust of opinion so that he lie even when he desire to speak the truth. 
i saw no more of him for nearly a week. when next i meet him it be in gracechurch street with a billbook chain to his waist. business take him over london bridge and i accompany him. he be very full of the importance of that book and magnify it. a we pass over the thames we pause to look at a steamer unload great slab of white and brown marble. a barge drift under the steamer s stern and a lonely cow in that barge bellow. charlie s face change from the face of the bank clerk to that of an unknown and though he would not have believe this a much shrewd man. he fling out his arm across the parapet of the bridge and laugh very loudly say. 
when they hear our bull bellow the skroelings run away. 
i wait only for an instant but the barge and the cow have disappear under the bow of the steamer before i answer. 
charlie what do you suppose be skroelings. 
never hear of em before. they sound like a new kind of seagull. what a chap you be for ask question. he reply. i have to go to the cashier of the omnibus company yonder. will you wait for me and we can lunch somewhere together. i ve a notion for a poem. 
no thank. i m off. you re sure you know nothing about skroelings. 
not unless he s be enter for the liverpool handicap. he nod and disappear in the crowd. 
now it be write in the saga of eric the red or that of thorfin karlsefne that nine hundred year ago when karlsefne s galley come to leif s booth which leif have erect in the unknown land call markland which may or may not have be rhode island the skroelings and the lord he know who these may or may not have be come to trade with the viking and run away because they be frighten at the bellow of the cattle which thorfin have bring with him in the ship. but what in the world could a greek slave know of that affair. i wander up and down among the street try to unravel the mystery and the more i consider it the more baffle it grow. one thing only seem certain and that certainty take away my breath for the moment. if i come to full knowledge of anything at all it would not be one life of the soul in charlie mears s body but half a dozen half a dozen several and separate existence spend on blue water in the morning of the world. 
then i walk round the situation. 
obviously if i use my knowledge i should stand alone and unapproachable until all men be a wise a myself. that would be something but manlike i be ungrateful. it seem bitterly unfair that charlie s memory should fail me when i need it most. great power above i look up at them through the fog smoke do the lord of life and death know what this mean to me. nothing le than eternal fame of the best kind. that come from one and be share by one alone. i would be content remember clive i stand astound at my own moderation with the mere right to tell one story to work out one little contribution to the light literature of the day. if charlie be permit full recollection for one hour for sixty short minute of existence that have extend over a thousand year i would forego all profit and honor from all that i should make of his speech. i would take no share in the commotion that would follow throughout the particular corner of the earth that call itself the world. the thing should be put forth anonymously. nay i would make other men believe that they have write it. they would hire bull hide self advertise englishman to bellow it abroad. preacher would find a fresh conduct of life upon it swear that it be new and that they have lift the fear of death from all mankind. every orientalist in europe would patronize it discursively with sanskrit and pali text. terrible woman would invent unclean variant of the men s belief for the elevation of their sister. church and religion would war over it. between the hail and re start of an omnibus i foresee the scuffle that would arise among half a dozen denomination all profess the doctrine of the true metempsychosis a apply to the world and the new era. and saw too the respectable english newspaper shy like frighten kine over the beautiful simplicity of the tale. the mind leap forward a hundred two hundred a thousand year. i saw with sorrow that men would mutilate and garble the story. that rival creed would turn it upside down till at last the western world which cling to the dread of death more closely than the hope of life would set it aside a an interest superstition and stampede after some faith so long forget that it seem altogether new. upon this i change the term of the bargain that i would make with the lord of life and death. only let me know let me write the story with sure knowledge that i write the truth and i would burn the manuscript a a solemn sacrifice. five minute after the last line be write i would destroy it all. but i must be allow to write it with absolute certainty. 
there be no answer. the flame color of an aquarium poster catch my eye and i wonder whether it would be wise or prudent to lure charlie into the hand of the professional mesmerist and whether if he be under his power he would speak of his past life. if he do and if people believe him. but charlie would be frighten and fluster or make conceited by the interview. in either case he would begin to lie through fear or vanity. he be safe in my own hand. 
they be very funny fool your english say a voice at my elbow and turn round i recognize a casual acquaintance a young bengali law student call grish chunder whose father have send him to england to become civilize. the old man be a retire native official and on an income of five pound a month contrive to allow his son two hundred pound a year and the run of his teeth in a city where he could pretend to be the cadet of a royal house and tell story of the brutal indian bureaucrat who grind the face of the poor. 
grish chunder be a young fat full body bengali dress with scrupulous care in frock coat tall hat light trouser and tan glove. but i have know him in the day when the brutal indian government pay for his university education and he contribute cheap sedition to sachi durpan_ and intrigue with the wife of his schoolmate. 
that be very funny and very foolish he say nod at the poster. i be go down to the northbrook club. will you come too. 
i walk with him for some time. you be not well he say. what be there in your mind. you do not talk. 
grish chunder you ve be too well educate to believe in a god haven t you. 
oah yes here. but when i go home i must conciliate popular superstition and make ceremony of purification and my woman will anoint idol. 
and bang up tulsi and feast the purohit_ and take you back into caste again and make a good khuttrj of you again you advance social free thinker. and you ll eat desi food and like it all from the smell in the courtyard to the mustard oil over you. 
i shall very much like it say grish chunder unguardedly. once a hindu always a hindu. but i like to know what the english think they know. 
i ll tell you something that one englishman know. it s an old tale to you. 
i begin to tell the story of charlie in english but grish chunder put a question in the vernacular and the history go forward naturally in the tongue best suit for it tell. after all it could never have be tell in english. grish chunder hear me nod from time to time and then come up to my room where i finish the tale. 
_beshak_ he say philosophically. _lekin darwaza band hai. without doubt but the door be shut. i have hear of this remember of previous existence among my people. it be of course an old tale with u but to happen to an englishman a cow feed malechk an outcast. by jove that be most peculiar. 
outcast yourself grish chunder. you eat cow beef every day. let s think the thing over. the boy remember his incarnation. 
doe he know that. say grish chunder quietly swing his leg a he sit on my table. he be speak in english now. 
he doe not know anything. would i speak to you if he do. go on. 
there be no go on at all. if you tell that to your friend they will say you be mad and put it in the paper. suppose now you prosecute for libel. 
let s leave that out of the question entirely. be there any chance of his be make to speak. 
there be a chance. oah yes. but if he speak it would mean that all this world would end now instanto fall down on your head. these thing be not allow you know. a i say the door be shut. 
not a ghost of a chance. 
how can there be. you be a christi án and it be forbid to eat in your book of the tree of life or else you would never die. how shall you all fear death if you all know what your friend doe not know that he know. i be afraid to be kick but i be not afraid to die because i know what i know. you be not afraid to be kick but you be afraid to die. if you be not by god. you english would be all over the shop in an hour upset the balance of power and make commotion. it would not be good. but no fear. he will remember a little and a little le and he will call it dream. then he will forget altogether. when i pass my first art examination in calcutta that be all in the cram book on wordsworth. trail cloud of glory you know. 
this seem to be an exception to the rule. 
there be no exception to rule. some be not so hard look a others but they be all the same when you touch. if this friend of yours say so and so and so and so indicate that he remember all his lose life or one piece of a lose life he would not be in the bank another hour. he would be what you call sack because he be mad and they would send him to an asylum for lunatic. you can see that my friend. 
of course i can but i wasn t think of him. his name need never appear in the story. 
ah. i see. that story will never be write. you can try. 
i be go to. 
for your own credit and for the sake of money of course. 
no. for the sake of write the story. on my honor that will be all. 
even then there be no chance. you cannot play with the god. it be a very pretty story now. a they say let it go on that i mean at that. be quick. he will not last long. 
how do you mean. 
what i say. he ha never so far think about a woman. 
hasn t he though. i remember some of charlie s confidence. 
i mean no woman ha think about him. when that come. bus hogya all up. i know. there be million of woman here. housemaid for instance. 
i wince at the think of my story be ruin by a housemaid. and yet nothing be more probable. 
grish chunder grin. 
yes also pretty girl cousin of his house and perhaps not of his house. one kiss that he give back again and remember will cure all this nonsense or else. 
or else what. remember he doe not know that he know. 
i know that. or else if nothing happen he will become immerse in the trade and the financial speculation like the rest. it must be so. you can see that it must be so. but the woman will come first i think. 
there be a rap at the door and charlie charge in impetuously. he have be release from office and by the look in his eye i could see that he have come over for a long talk. most probably with poem in his pocket. charlie s poem be very weary but sometimes they lead him to talk about the galley. 
grish chunder look at him keenly for a minute. 
i beg your pardon charlie say uneasily. i didn t know you have any one with you. 
i be go say grish chunder. 
he draw me into the lobby a he depart. 
that be your man he say quickly. i tell you he will never speak all you wish. that be rot bosh. but he would be most good to make to see thing. suppose now we pretend that it be only play i have never see grish chunder so excite and pour the ink pool into his hand. eh what do you think. i tell you that he could see anything that a man could see. let me get the ink and the camphor. he be a seer and he will tell u very many thing. 
he may be all you say but i m not go to trust him to your god and devil. 
it will not hurt him. he will only feel a little stupid and dull when he wake up. you have see boy look into the ink pool before. 
that be the reason why i be not go to see it any more. you d good go grish chunder. 
he go declare far down the staircase that it be throw away my only chance of look into the future. 
this leave me unmoved for i be concern for the past and no peer of hypnotize boy into mirror and ink pool would help me do that. but i recognize grish chunder s point of view and sympathize with it. 
what a big black brute that be. say charlie when i return to him. well look here i ve just do a poem. do it instead of play domino after lunch. may i read it. 
let me read it to myself. 
then you miss the proper expression. besides you always make my thing sound a if the rhyme be all wrong. 
read it aloud then. you re like the rest of em. 
charlie mouth me his poem and it be not much bad than the average of his verse. he have be read his book faithfully but he be not please when i tell him that i prefer my longfellow undiluted with charlie. 
then we begin to go through the m. line by line. charlie parry every objection and correction with. 
yes that may be good but you don t catch what i m drive at. 
charlie be in one way at least very like one kind of poet. 
there be a pencil scrawl at the back of the paper and what s that. i say. 
oh that s not poetry t all. it s some rot i write last night before i go to bed and it be too much bother to hunt for rhyme. so i make it a sort of a blank verse instead. 
here be charlie s blank verse. 
we pull for you when the wind be against u and the sail be low. 
will you never let u go. 
we eat bread and onion when you take town or run aboard quickly when you be beat back by the foe. 
the captain walk up and down the deck in fair weather sing song but we be below. 
we faint with our chin on the oar and you do not see that we be idle for we still swing to and fro. 
will you never let u go. 
the salt make the oar handle like sharkskin. our knee be cut to the bone with salt crack. our hair be stick to our forehead. and our lip be cut to our gum and you whip u because we could not row. 
will you never let u go. 
but in a little time we shall run out of the porthole a the water run along the oarblade and though you tell the others to row after u you will never catch u till you catch the oar thresh and tie up the wind in the belly of the sail. aho. 
will you never let u go. 
h m. what s oar thresh charlie. 
the water wash up by the oar. that s the sort of song they might sing in the galley y know. aren t you ever go to finish that story and give me some of the profit. 
it depend on yourself. if you have only tell me more about your hero in the first instance it might have be finish by now. you re so hazy in your notion. 
i only want to give you the general notion of it the knock about from place to place and the fight and all that. can t you fill in the rest yourself. make the hero save a girl on a pirate galley and marry her or do something. 
you re a really helpful collaborator. i suppose the hero go through some few adventure before he marry. 
well then make him a very artful card a low sort of man a sort of political man who go about make treaty and break them a black haired chap who hide behind the mast when the fight begin. 
but you say the other day that he be red haired. 
i couldn t have. make him black haired of course. you ve no imagination. 
see that i have just discover the entire principle upon which the half memory falsely call imagination be base i felt entitle to laugh but forbear for the sake of the tale. 
you re right. you re the man with imagination. a black haired chap in a deck ship i say. 
no an open ship like a big boat. 
this be madden. 
your ship ha be build and design close and deck in. you say so yourself i protest. 
no no not that ship. that be open or half deck because. by jove you re right. you make me think of the hero a a red haired chap. of course if he be red the ship would be an open one with paint sail. 
surely i think he would remember now that he have serve in two galley at least in a three deck greek one under the black haired political man and again in a viking s open sea serpent under the man red a a red bear who go to markland. the devil prompt me to speak. 
why of course charlie. say i. 
i don t know. be you make fun of me. 
the current be break for the time be. i take up a notebook and pretend to make many entry in it. 
it s a pleasure to work with an imaginative chap like yourself i say after a pause. the way that you ve bring out the character of the hero be simply wonderful. 
do you think so. he answer with a please flush. i often tell myself that there s more in me than my mo than people think. 
there s an enormous amount in you. 
then win t you let me send an essay on the way of bank clerk to tit bit and get the guinea prize. 
that wasn t exactly what i mean old fellow. perhaps it would be good to wait a little and go ahead with the galley story. 
ah but i sha n t get the credit of that. tit bit would publish my name and address if i win. what be you grin at. they would. 
i know it. suppose you go for a walk. i want to look through my note about our story. 
now this reprehensible youth who leave me a little hurt and put back might for aught he or i know have be one of the crew of the argo have be certainly slave or comrade to thorfin karlsefne. therefore he be deeply interest in guinea competition. remember what grish chunder have say i laugh aloud. the lord of life and death would never allow charlie mears to speak with full knowledge of his past and i must even piece out what he have tell me with my own poor invention while charlie write of the way of bank clerk. 
i get together and place on one file all my note. and the net result be not cheer. i read them a second time. there be nothing that might not have be compile at second hand from other people s book except perhaps the story of the fight in the harbor. the adventure of a viking have be write many time before. the history of a greek galley slave be no new thing and though i write both who could challenge or confirm the accuracy of my detail. i might a well tell a tale of two thousand year hence. the lord of life and death be a cunning a grish chunder have hint. they would allow nothing to escape that might trouble or make easy the mind of men. though i be convince of this yet i could not leave the tale alone. exaltation follow reaction not once but twenty time in the next few week. my mood vary with the march sunlight and fly cloud. by night or in the beauty of a spring morning i perceive that i could write that tale and shift continent thereby. in the wet windy afternoon i saw that the tale might indeed be write but would be nothing more than a fake false varnish sham rust piece of wardour street work at the end. then i bless charlie in many way though it be no fault of his. he seem to be busy with prize competition and i saw le and le of him a the week go by and the earth crack and grow ripe to spring and the bud swell in their sheath. he do not care to read or talk of what he have read and there be a new ring of self assertion in his voice. i hardly care to remind him of the galley when we meet. but charlie allude to it on every occasion always a a story from which money be to be make. 
i think i deserve twenty five per cent. don t i at least he say with beautiful frankness. i supply all the idea didn t i. 
this greediness for silver be a new side in his nature. i assume that it have be develop in the city where charlie be pick up the curious nasal drawl of the underbred city man. 
when the thing s do we ll talk about it. i can t make anything of it at present. red haired or black haired hero be equally difficult. 
he be sit by the fire star at the red coal. _i can t understand what you find so difficult. it s all a clean a mud to me he reply. a jet of gas puff out between the bar take light and whistle softly. suppose we take the red haired hero s adventure first from the time that he come south to my galley and capture it and sail to the beach. 
i know good now than to interrupt charlie. i be out of reach of pen and paper and dare not move to get them l i should break the current. the gas jet puff and whinny charlie s voice drop almost to a whisper and he tell a tale of the sail of an open galley to furdurstrandi of sunset on the open sea see under the curve of the one sail even after even when the galley s beak be notch into the centre of the sink disc and we sail by that for we have no other guide quoth charlie. he speak of a land on an island and exploration in it wood where the crew kill three men whom they find asleep under the pine. their ghost charlie say follow the galley swim and choke in the water and the crew cast lot and throw one of their number overboard a a sacrifice to the strange god whom they have offend. then they eat sea weed when their provision fail and their leg swell and their leader the red haired man kill two rower who mutiny and after a year spend among the wood they set sail for their own country and a wind that never fail carry them back so safely that they all sleep at night. this and much more charlie tell. sometimes the voice fell so low that i could not catch the word though every nerve be on the strain. he speak of their leader the red haired man a a pagan speak of his god. for it be he who cheer them and slew them impartially a he think best for their need. and it be he who steer them for three day among float ice each floe crowd with strange beast that try to sail with u say charlie and we beat them back with the handle of the oar. 
the gas jet go out a burn coal give way and the fire settle down with a tiny crash to the bottom of the grate. charlie cease speak and i say no word. 
by jove. he say at last shake his head. i ve be star at the fire till i m dizzy. what be i go to say. 
something about the galley. 
i remember now. it s per cent. of the profit isn t it. 
it s anything you like when i ve do the tale. 
i want to be sure of that. i must go now. i ve i ve an appointment. and he leave me. 
have my eye not be hold i might have know that that break mutter over the fire be the swan song of charlie mears. but i think it the prelude to full revelation. at last and at last i should cheat the lord of life and death. 
when next charlie come to me i receive him with rapture. he be nervous and embarrass but his eye be very full of light and his lip a little part. 
i ve do a poem he say. and then quickly. it s the best i ve ever do. read it. he thrust it into my hand and retreat to the window. 
i groan inwardly. it would be the work of half an hour to criticise that be to say praise the poem sufficiently to please charlie. then i have good reason to groan for charlie discard his favorite centipede metre have launch into short and choppy verse and verse with a motive at the back of it. this be what i read. 
the day be most fair the cheery wind halloo behind the hill where he bend the wood a seemeth good and the sapling to his will. riot o wind. there be that in my blood that would not have thee still. 
she give me herself o earth o sky. grey sea she be mine alone. let the sullen boulder hear my cry and rejoice tho they be but stone. 
mine. i have win her o good brown earth make merry. ti hard on spring. make merry. my love be doubly worth all worship your field can bring. let the bind that till you feel my mirth at the early harrow. 
yes it s the early harrow past a doubt i say with a dread at my heart. charlie smile but do not answer. 
red cloud of the sunset tell it abroad. i be victor. greet me o sun dominant master and absolute lord over the soul of one. 
well. say charlie look over my shoulder. 
i think it far from well and very evil indeed when he silently lay a photograph on the paper the photograph of a girl with a curly head and a foolish slack mouth. 
isn t it isn t it wonderful. he whisper pink to the tip of his ear wrap in the rosy mystery of first love. i didn t know. i didn t think it come like a thunderclap. 
yes. it come like a thunderclap. be you very happy charlie. 
my god she she love me. he sit down repeat the last word to himself. i look at the hairless face the narrow shoulder already bow by desk work and wonder when where and how he have love in his past life. 
what will your mother say. i ask cheerfully. 
i don t care a damn what she say. 
at twenty the thing for which one doe not care a damn should properly be many but one must not include mother in the list. i tell him this gently. and he describe her even a adam must have describe to the newly name beast the glory and tenderness and beauty of eve. incidentally i learn that she be a tobacconist s assistant with a weakness for pretty dress and have tell him four or five time already that she have never be kiss by a man before. 
charlie speak on and on and on. while i separate from him by thousand of year be consider the beginning of thing. now i understand why the lord of life and death shut the door so carefully behind u. it be that we may not remember our first wooing. be it not so our world would be without inhabitant in a hundred year. 
now about that galley story i say still more cheerfully in a pause in the rush of the speech. 
charlie look up a though he have be hit. the galley what galley. good heaven don t joke man. this be serious. you don t know how serious it be. 
grish chunder be right. charlie have taste the love of woman that kill remembrance and the fine story in the world would never be write. 
