[illustration. come the whisper come the vision. come the whisper come the vision come the power with the need till the soul that be not man s soul be lend u to lead. ]. 
a song of the english. 
by rudyard kipling. 
illustrate by w. heath robinson. 
hodder & stoughton london. 
this edition of a song of the english be reprint from the seven sea and the publisher desire to acknowledge the courtesy of messrs. methuen & co. in consent to it issue a a separate volume. 
a song of the english. 
fair be our lot o goodly be our heritage. humble ye my people and be fearful in your mirth. for the lord our god most high he hath make the deep a dry he hath smite for u a pathway to the end of all the earth. 
yea though we sin and our ruler go from righteousness deep in all dishonour though we stain our garment hem. oh be ye not dismay though we stumble and we stray we be lead by evil counsellor the lord shall deal with them. 
hold ye the faith the faith our father sealèd u. whore not with vision overwise and over stale. except ye pay the lord single heart and single sword of your child in their bondage shall he ask them treble tale. 
keep ye the law be swift in all obedience clear the land of evil drive the road and bridge the ford. make ye sure to each his own that he reap where he hath sow. by the peace among our people let men know we serve the lord. 
* * * * *. 
hear now a song a song of break interlude a song of little cunning. of a singer nothing worth. through the naked word and mean may ye see the truth between a the singer know and touch it in the end of all the earth. 
the coastwise light. 
our brow be bind with spindrift and the weed be on our knee. our loin be batter neath u by the swing smoke sea. from reef and rock and skerry over headland ness and voe the coastwise light of england watch the ship of england go. 
through the endless summer evening on the lineless level floor. through the yell channel tempest when the siren hoot and roar by day the dip house flag and by night the rocket s trail a the sheep that graze behind u so we know them where they hail. 
we bridge across the dark and bid the helmsman have a care the flash that wheel inland wake his sleep wife to prayer. from our vex eyry head to gale we bind in burn chain the lover from the sea rim draw his love in english lane. 
we greet the clipper wing and wing that race the southern wool. we warn the crawl cargo tank of bremen leith and hull. to each and all our equal lamp at peril of the sea the white wall side warship or the whaler of dundee. 
[illustration. the coastwise light of england. come up come in from eastward from the guardports of the morn. beat up beat in from southerly o gipsy of the horn. swift shuttle of an empire s loom that weave u main to main the coastwise light of england give you welcome back again. ]. 
come up come in from eastward from the guard port of the morn. beat up beat in from southerly o gipsy of the horn. swift shuttle of an empire s loom that weave u main to main the coastwise light of england give you welcome back again. 
go get you go up channel with the sea crust on your plate. go get you into london with the burden of your freight. haste for they talk of empire there and say if any seek the light of england send you and by silence shall ye speak. 
the song of the dead. 
[illustration. the song of the dead. follow after we be wait by the trail that we lose for the sound of many footstep for the tread of a host. ]. 
hear now the song of the dead in the north by the tear berg edge they that look still to the pole asleep by their hide strip sledge. song of the dead in the south in the sun by their skeleton horse where the warrigal whimper and bay through the dust of the sere river course. 
song of the dead in the east in the heat rot jungle hollow where the dog ape bark in the kloof in the brake of the buffalo wallow. song of the dead in the west in the barren the waste that betray them where the wolverine tumble their pack from the camp and the grave mound they make them. hear now the song of the dead. 
i. 
we be dreamer dream greatly in the man stifle town. we yearn beyond the sky line where the strange road go down. come the whisper come the vision come the power with the need till the soul that be not man s soul be lend u to lead. a the deer break a the steer break from the herd where they graze in the faith of little child we go on our way. 
then the wood fail then the food fail then the last water dry in the faith of little child we lay down and die. on the sand drift on the veldt side in the fern scrub we lay that our son might follow after by the bone on the way. follow after follow after. we have water the root and the bud ha come to blossom that ripen for fruit. 
follow after we be wait by the trail that we lose for the sound of many footstep for the tread of a host. follow after follow after for the harvest be sow. by the bone about the wayside ye shall come to your own. 
[illustration. follow after. follow after follow after for the harvest be sow. by the bone about the wayside ye shall come to your own. ]. 
when drake go down to the horn and england be crown thereby twixt sea unsailed and shore unhailed our lodge our lodge be bear. and england be crown thereby. 
which never shall close again by day nor yet by night while man shall take his life to stake at risk of shoal or main. by day nor yet by night. 
but standeth even so a now we witness here while men depart of joyful heart adventure for to know. a now bear witness here. 
ii. 
we have feed our sea for a thousand year and she call u still unfed though there s never a wave of all her wave but mark our english dead. we have straw our best to the weed s unrest to the shark and the sheer gull. if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay in full. 
[illustration. lord god we ha pay in full. if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay in full. ]. 
there s never a flood go shoreward now but lift a keel we man. there s never an ebb go seaward now but drop our dead on the sand but slink our dead on the sand forlore from the ducies to the swin. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay it in. 
we must fee our sea for a thousand year for that be our doom and pride a it be when they sail with the golden hind_ or the wreck that strike last tide or the wreck that lie on the spout reef where the ghastly blue light flare. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha buy it fair. 
the deep sea cable. 
the wreck dissolve above u. their dust drop down from afar down to the dark to the utter dark where the blind white sea snake be. there be no sound no echo of sound in the desert of the deep or the great grey level plain of ooze where the shell bury cable creep. 
here in the womb of the world here on the tie rib of earth word and the word of men flicker and flutter and beat warn sorrow and gain salutation and mirth for a power trouble the still that ha neither voice nor foot. 
they have waken the timeless thing. they have kill their father time. join hand in the gloom a league from the last of the sun. hush. men talk to day o er the waste of the ultimate slime and a new word run between. whisper let u be one. 
the song of the son. 
one from the end of the earth gift at an open door treason ha much but we mother thy son have more. from the whine of a die man from the snarl of a wolf pack free turn and the world be thine. mother be proud of thy seed. count be we feeble or few. hear be our speech so rude. look be we poor in the land. judge be we men of the blood. 
[illustration. we that be breed overseas. those that have stay at thy knee mother go call them in we that be breed overseas wait and would speak with our kin. not in the dark do we fight haggle and flout and gibe. sell our love for a price loan our heart for a bribe. ]. 
those that have stay at thy knee mother go call them in we that be breed overseas wait and would speak with our kin. not in the dark do we fight haggle and flout and gibe. sell our love for a price loan our heart for a bribe. gift have we only to day love without promise or fee hear for thy child speak from the uttermost part of the sea. 
the song of the city. 
bombay. 
royal and dower royal i the queen front thy rich sea with rich hand a thousand mill roar through me where i glean all race from all land. 
[illustration. bombay. royal and dower royal i the queen front thy rich sea with rich hand a thousand mill roar through me where i glean all race from all land. ]. 
calcutta. 
me the sea captain love the river build wealth seek and king adventure life to hold. hail england. i be asia power on silt death in my hand but gold. 
madras. 
clive kiss me on the mouth and eye and brow wonderful kiss so that i become crown above queen a wither beldame now brood on ancient fame. 
rangoon. 
hail mother. do they call me rich in trade. little care i but hear the shorn priest drone and watch my silk clothe lover man by maid laugh neath my shwe dagon. 
singapore. 
hail mother. east and west must seek my aid ere the spend gear may dare the port afar. the second doorway of the wide world s trade be mine to loose or bar. 
hong kong. 
hail mother. hold me fast. my praya sleep under innumerable keel to day. yet guard. and landward. or to morrow sweep thy warship down the bay. 
halifax. 
into the mist my guardian prow put forth behind the mist my virgin rampart lie the warden of the honour of the north sleepless and veil be i. 
quebec and montreal. 
peace be our portion. yet a whisper rise foolish and causeless half in jest half hate. now wake we and remember mighty blow and fear no man wait. 
victoria. 
from east to west the circle word ha pass till west be east beside our land lock blue. from east to west the test chain hold fast the well forge link ring true. 
capetown. 
hail. snatch and barter oft from hand to hand i dream my dream by rock and heath and pine of empire to the northward. ay one land from lion s head to line. 
melbourne. 
greet. nor fear nor favour win u place get between greed of gold and dread of drouth loud voice and reckless a the wild tide race that whip our harbour mouth. 
sydney. 
greet. my birth stain have i turn to good. force strong will perverse to steadfastness. the first flush of the tropic in my blood and at my foot success. 
brisbane. 
the northern stirp beneath the southern sky i build a nation for an empire s need suffer a little and my land shall rise queen over land indeed. 
hobart. 
man s love first find me. man s hate make me hell. for my babe sake i cleanse those infamy. earnest for leave to live and labour well god fling me peace and ease. 
auckland. 
last lonely lovely exquisite apart on u on u the unswerving season smile who wonder mid our fern why men depart to seek the happy isle. 
england s answer. 
truly ye come of the blood. slow to bless than to ban. little use to lie down at the bid of any man. flesh of the flesh that i breed bone of the bone that i bare. stark a your son shall be stern a your father be. deep than speech our love strong than life our tether but we do not fall on the neck nor kiss when we come together. 
[illustration. my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. deep than speech our love strong than life our tether but we do not fall on the neck nor kiss when we come together. my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. son i have bear many son but my dug be not dry. ]. 
my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. son i have bear many son but my dug be not dry. look i have make ye a place and open wide the door that ye may talk together your baron and councillor ward of the out march lord of the low sea ay talk to your grey mother that bore you on her knee. 
that ye may talk together brother to brother s face thus for the good of your people thus for the pride of the race. also we will make promise. so long a the blood endure i shall know that your good be mine. ye shall feel that my strength be yours. in the day of armageddon at the last great fight of all that our house stand together and the pillar do not fall. 
draw now the threefold knot firm on the ninefold band and the law that ye make shall be law after the rule of your land. this for the waxen heath and that for the wattle bloom this for the maple leaf and that for the southern broom. the law that ye make shall be law and i do not press my will because ye be son of the blood and call me mother still. 
now must ye speak to your kinsman and they must speak to you after the use of the english in straight fling word and few. go to your work and be strong halt not in your way baulk the end half win for an instant dole of praise. stand to your work and be wise certain of sword and pen who be neither child nor god but men in a world of men. 
edinburgh. t. and a. constable printer to his majesty. 
* * * * *. 
