soldier three. 
the story of the gadsbys in black and white. 
by rudyard kipling. 

content. 
the god from the machine of those call private learoyd s story the big drink draf the wreck of the visigoth the solid muldoon with the main guard in the matter of a private black jack poor dear mamma the world without the tent of kedar with any amazement the garden of eden fatima the valley of the shadow the swell of jordan dray wara yow dee the judgment of dungara at howli thana gemini at twenty two in flood time the send of dana da on the city wall the story of the gadsbys in black and white. 
the god from the machine. 
hit a man an help a woman an ye can t be far wrong anyways. maxim of private mulvaney. 
the inexpressibles give a ball. they borrow a seven pounder from the gunner and wreathe it with laurel and make the dance floor plate glass and provide a supper the like of which have never be eat before and set two sentry at the door of the room to hold the tray of programme card. my friend private mulvaney be one of the sentry because he be the tall man in the regiment. when the dance be fairly start the sentry be release and private mulvaney go to curry favour with the mess sergeant in charge of the supper. whether the mess sergeant give or mulvaney take i cannot say. all that i be certain of be that at supper time i find mulvaney with private ortheris two third of a ham a loaf of bread half a pate de foie gras_ and two magnum of champagne sit on the roof of my carriage. a i come up i hear him say. 
praise be a danst doesn t come a often a ord ly room or by this an that orth ri me son i wud be the dishgrace av the rig mint instid av the bright jool in ut crown. 
hand the colonel s pet noosance say ortheris. but wot make you curse your ration. this ere fizzy stuff s good enough. 
stuff ye oncivilised pagin. ti champagne we re dhrinkin now. tisn t that i be set ag in. ti this quare stuff wid the little bit av black leather in it. i misdoubt i will be distressin ly sick wid it in the mornin. fwhat be ut. 
goose liver i say climb on the top of the carriage for i know that it be good to sit out with mulvaney than to dance many dance. 
goose liver be ut. say mulvaney. faith i m thinkin thim that make it wud do betther to cut up the colonel. he carry a power av liver undher his right arrum whin the day be warm an the night chill. he wud give thim ton an ton av liver. ti he sez so. i m all liver to day sez he. an wid that he ordhers me ten day c. b. for a moild a dhrink a iv a good sodger tuk betune his teeth. 
that be when e want for to wash isself in the fort ditch ortheris explain. say there be too much beer in the barrack water butt for a god fear man. you be lucky in gettin orf with wot you do mulvaney. 
say you so. now i m pershuaded i be cruel hard trated seein fwhat i ve do for the like av him in the day whin my eye be wide opin than they be now. man alive for the colonel to whip me on the peg in that way. me that have save the repitation av a ten time good man than him. twas ne farious an that mane a power av evil. 
never mind the nefariousness i say. whose reputation do you save. 
more s the pity twasn t my own but i tuk more trouble wid ut than av ut be. twas just my way messin wid fwhat be no business av mine. hear now. he settle himself at ease on the top of the carriage. i ll tell you all about ut. av coorse i will name no name for there s wan that s an orf cer s lady now that be in ut and no more will i name place for a man be thracked by a place. 
eyah. say ortheris lazily but this be a mix story wot s comin. 
wanst upon a time a the childer book say i be a recruity. 
be you though. say ortheris. now that s extry ordinary. 
orth ri say mulvaney av you opin thim lip av yours again i will savin your presince sorr take you by the slack av your trouser an heave you. 
i m mum say ortheris. wot appened when you be a recruity. 
i be a betther recruity than you iv be or will be but that s neither here nor there. thin i become a man an the divil of a man i be fifteen year ago. they call me buck mulvaney in thim day an begad i tuk a woman s eye. i do that. ortheris ye scrub fwhat be ye sniggerin at. do you misdoubt me. 
devil a doubt. say ortheris. but i ve eard summat like that before. 
mulvaney dismiss the impertinence with a lofty wave of his hand and continue. 
an the orf cer av the rig mint i be in in thim day be orf cer gran men wid a manner on em an a way wid em such a be not make these day all but wan wan o the capt n. a bad dhrill a wake voice an a limp leg thim three thing be the sign av a bad man. you bear that in your mind orth ri me son. 
an the colonel av the rig mint have a daughter wan av thim lamblike bleatin pick me up an carry me or i ll die gurls such a be make for the natural prey av men like the capt n who be iverlastin payin coort to her though the colonel he say time an over kape out av the brute s way my dear. but he niver have the heart for to send her away from the throuble bein a he be a widower an she their wan child. 
stop a minute mulvaney say i. how in the world do you come to know these thing. 
how do i come. say mulvaney with a scornful grunt. bekase i m turn durin the quane s pleasure to a lump av wood lookin out straight forninst me wid a a candelabbrum in my hand for you to pick your card out av must i not see nor feel. av coorse i du. up my back an in my boot an in the short hair av the neck that s where i kape my eye whin i m on duty an the reg lar wan be fix. know. take my word for it sorr ivrything an a great dale more be know in a rig mint. or fwhat wud be the use av a mess sargint or a sargint s wife doin wet nurse to the major s baby. to reshume. he be a bad dhrill be this capt n a rotten bad dhrill an whin first i run me eye over him i sez to myself. my militia bantam. i sez my cock av a gosport dunghill twas from portsmouth he come to u there s comb to be cut sez i an by the grace av god ti terence mulvaney will cut thim. 
so he wint menowderin and minanderin an blandandherin roun an about the colonel s daughter an she poor innocint lookin at him like a comm ssariat bullock look at the comp ny cook. he d a dhirty little scrub av a black moustache an he twist an turn ivry wurrd he use a av he find ut too sweet for to spit out. eyah. he be a tricky man an a liar by natur. some be bear so. he be wan. i know he be over his belt in money borrow from native. besides a lot av other matthers which in regard for your presince sorr i will oblitherate. a little av fwhat i know the colonel know for he wud have none av him an that i m thinkin by fwhat happen aftherwards the capt n know. 
wan day bein mortial idle or they wud never ha thried ut the rig mint give amshure theatrical orf cer an orf cer lady. you ve see the like time an agin sorr an poor fun ti for them that sit in the back row an stamp wid their boot for the honour av the rig mint. i be tell off for to shif the scene haulin up this an draggin down that. light work ut be wid lashins av beer and the gurl that dhressed the orf cer lady but she die in aggra twelve year go an my tongue s gettin the betther av me. they be actin a play thing call sweethearts_ which you may ha hear av an the colonel s daughter she be a lady s maid. the capt n be a boy call broom spread broom be his name in the play. thin i saw ut come out in the actin fwhat i niver saw before an that be that he be no gentleman. they be too much together thim two a whishperin behind the scene i shift an some av what they say i hear. for i be death blue death an ivy on the comb cuttin. he be iverlastin ly oppress her to fall in wid some sneakin schame av his an she be thryin to stand out against him but not a though she be set in her will. i wonder now in thim day that my ear do not grow a yard on me head wid list nin. but i look straight forninst me an haul up this an drag down that such a be my duty an the orf cer lady sez one to another thinkin i be out av listen reach. fwhat an obligin young man be this corp ril mulvaney. i be a corp ril then. i be rejuced aftherwards but no matther i be a corp ril wanst. 
well this sweetheart business wint on like most amshure theatrical an barrin fwhat i suspicioned twasn t till the dhress rehearsal that i saw for certain that thim two he the blackguard an she no wise than she should ha be have put up an evasion. 
a what. say i. 
e vasion. fwhat you call an elopemint. e vasion i call it bekaze exceptin whin ti right an natural an proper ti wrong an dhirty to steal a man s wan child she not knowin her own mind. there be a sargint in the comm ssariat who set my face upon e vasions. i ll tell you about that. 
stick to the bloomin captain mulvaney say ortheris. comm ssariat sargints be low. 
mulvaney accept the amendment and go on. 
now i know that the colonel be no fool any more than me for i be hild the smart man in the rig mint an the colonel be the best orf cer commandin in asia. so fwhat he say an i say be a mortial truth. we know that the capt n be bad but for reason which i have already oblitherated i know more than me colonel. i wud ha roll out his face wid the butt av my gun before permittin av him to steal the gurl. saint know av he wud ha marry her and av he didn t she wud be in great tormint an the divil av a scandal. but i niver sthruck niver raise me hand on my shuperior orf cer. an that be a merricle now i come to considher it. 
mulvaney the dawn s risin say ortheris an we re no near ome than we be at the beginnin. lend me your pouch. mine s all dust. 
mulvaney pitch his pouch over and fill his pipe afresh. 
so the dhress rehearsal come to an end an bekaze i be curious i stay behind whin the scene shiftin be end an i shud ha be in barricks lyin a flat a a toad under a paint cottage thing. they be talkin in whisper an she be shiverin an gaspin like a fresh hukked fish. be you sure you ve get the hang av the manewvers. sez he or wurrds to that effec a the coort martial sez. sure a death sez she but i misdoubt ti cruel hard on my father. damn your father sez he or anyways twas fwhat he think the arrangement be a clear a mud. jungi will drive the carr ge afther all s over an you come to the station cool an aisy in time for the two o clock thrain where i ll be wid your kit. faith think i to myself thin there s a ayah in the business tu. 
a powerful bad thing be a ayah. don t you niver have any thruck wid wan. thin he begin sootherin her an all the orf cer an orf cer lady leave an they put out the light. to explain the theory av the flight a they say at muskthry you must understand that afther this sweetheart nonsinse be end there be another little bite av a play call couple some kind av couple or another. the gurl be actin in this but not the man. i suspicioned he d go to the station wid the gurl s kit at the end av the first piece. twas the kit that flusthered me for i know for a capt n to go trap about the impire wid the lord know what av a truso on his arrum be nefarious an wud be bad than easin the flag so far a the talk aftherwards wint. 
old on mulvaney. wot s truso. say ortheris. 
you re an oncivilised man me son. whin a gurl s marry all her kit an coutrements be truso_ which mane weddin portion. an ti the same whin she s runnin away even wid the big blackguard on the arrmy list. 
so i make my plan av campaign. the colonel s house be a good two mile away. dennis sez i to my colour sargint av you love me lend me your kyart for me heart be bruk an me foot be sore wid trampin to and from this foolishness at the gaff. an dennis lend ut wid a rampin stampin red stallion in the shaft. whin they be all settle down to their sweetheart for the first scene which be a long wan i slip outside and into the kyart. mother av hivin. but i make that horse walk an we come into the colonel s compound a the divil wint through athlone in standin leps. there be no one there excipt the servints an i wint round to the back an find the girl s ayah. 
ye black brazen jezebel sez i sellin your masther s honour for five rupee pack up all the miss sahib s kit an look slippy. capt n sahib s order sez i. go to the station we be i sez an wid that i lay my finger to my nose an look the schamin sinner i be. 
bote acchy say she. so i know she be in the business an i pile up all the sweet talk i d iv learn in the bazar on to this she bullock an pray av her to put all the quick she know into the thing. while she pack i stud outside an sweat for i be want for to shif the second scene. i tell you a young gurl s e vasion mane a much baggage a a rig mint on the line av march. saint help dennis s spring think i a i bundle the stuff into the thrap for i ll have no mercy. 
i m comin too say the ayah. 
no you don t sez i late pechy. you baito where you be. i ll pechy come an bring you sart_ along with me you maraudin niver mind fwhat i call her. 
thin i wint for the gaff an by the special ordher av providence for i be doin a good work you will ondersthand dennis s spring hild toight. now whin the capt n go for that kit think i he ll be throubled. at the end av sweetheart off the capt n run in his kyart to the colonel s house an i sit down on the step and laugh. wanst an again i slip in to see how the little piece be goin an whin ut be near endin i step out all among the carr ge an sing out very softly jungi. wid that a carr ge begin to move an i wave to the dhriver. hitherao. sez i an he hitheraoed till i judge he be at proper distance an thin i tuk him fair an square betune the eye all i know for good or bad an he dhropped wid a guggle like the canteen beer engine whin ut s runnin low. thin i run to the kyart an tuk out all the kit an pile it into the carr ge the sweat runnin down my face in dhrops. go home sez i to the sais. you ll find a man close here. very sick he be. take him away an av you iv say wan wurrd about fwhat you ve dekkoed_ i ll marrow you till your own wife win t sumjao who you be. thin i hear the stampin av foot at the ind av the play an i run in to let down the curtain. whin they all come out the gurl thried to hide herself behind wan av the pillar an sez jungi in a voice that wouldn t ha scar a hare. i run over to jungi s carr ge an tuk up the lousy old horse blanket on the box wrap my head an the rest av me in ut an dhrove up to where she be. 
miss sahib sez i. go to the station. captain sahib s order. an widout a sign she jump in all among her own kit. 
i lay to an dhruv like steam to the colonel s house before the colonel be there an she scream an i think she be goin off. out come the ayah say all sort av thing about the capt n havin come for the kit an go to the station. 
take out the luggage you divil sez i or i ll murther you. 
the light av the thraps people comin from the gaff be showin across the parade grind an by this an that the way thim two woman work at the bundle an thrunks be a caution. i be dyin to help but seein i didn t want to be know i sit wid the blanket roun me an cough an thank the saint there be no moon that night. 
whin all be in the house again i niver ask for bukshish but dhruv tremenjus in the opp site way from the other carr ge an put out my light. presintly i saw a naygur man wallowin in the road. i slip down before i get to him for i suspicioned providence be wid me all through that night. twas jungi his nose smash in flat all dumb sick a you please. dennis s man must have tilt him out av the thrap. whin he come to hutt. sez i but he begin to howl. 
you black lump av dirt i sez be this the way you dhrive your gharri. that tikka ha be owin an fere owin all over the bloomin country this whole bloomin night an you a mut walla a davey s sow. get up you hog. sez i loud for i hear the wheel av a thrap in the dark. get up an light your lamp or you ll be run into. this be on the road to the railway station. 
fwhat the divil s this. sez the capt n s voice in the dhark an i could judge he be in a lather av rage. 
_gharri dhriver here dhrunk sorr sez i. i ve find his gharri sthrayin about cantonmints an now i ve find him. 
oh. sez the capt n. fwhat s his name. i stoop down an pretend to listen. 
he sez his name s jungi sorr sez i. 
hould my harse sez the capt n to his man an wid that he get down wid the whip an lay into jungi just mad wid rage an swearin like the scutt he be. 
i think afther a while he wud kill the man so i sez. stop sorr or you ll murdher him. that dhrew all his fire on me an he curse me into blaze an out again. i stud to attenshin an salute. sorr sez i av ivry man in this wurruld have his right i m thinkin that more than wan wud be beat to a jelly for this night s work that niver come off at all sorr a you see. now think i to myself terence mulvaney you ve cut your own throat for he ll sthrike an you ll knock him down for the good av his sowl an your own iverlastin dishgrace. 
but the capt n niver say a single wurrd. he choke where he stud an thin he go into his thrap widout sayin good night an i wint back to barricks. 
and then. say ortheris and i together. 
that be all say mulvaney. niver another word do i hear av the whole thing. all i know be that there be no e vasion an that be fwhat i want. now i put ut to you sorr be ten day c. b. a fit an a proper tratement for a man who ha behave a me. 
well any ow say ortheris tweren t this ere colonel s daughter an you be blazin cop when you try to wash in the fort ditch. 
that say mulvaney finish the champagne be a shuparfluous an impert nint observation. 
of those call. 
[footnote. ]. 
we be wallow through the china sea in a dense fog the horn blow every two minute for the benefit of the fishery craft that crowd the waterway. from the bridge the fo c sle be invisible. from the hand wheel at the stern the captain s cabin. the fog hold possession of everything the pearly white fog. once or twice when it try to lift we saw a glimpse of the oily sea the flit vision of a junk s sail spread in the vain hope of catch the breeze or the buoy of a line of net. somewhere close to u lay the land but it might have be the kurile island for aught we know. very early in the morning there pass u not a cable s length away but a unseen a the spirit of the dead a steamer of the same line a ours. she howl melodiously in answer to our bellow and pass on. 
suppose she have hit u say a man from saigon. then we should have go down answer the chief officer sweetly. beastly thing to go down in a fog say a young gentleman who be travel for pleasure. choke a man both way y know. we be comfortably gather in the smoke room the weather be too cold to venture on the deck. conversation naturally turn upon accident of fog the horn toot significantly in the pause between the tale. i hear of the wreck of the eric_ the cut down of the strathnairn within half a mile of harbour and the carry away of the bow plate of the sigismund outside sandy hook. 
it be astonish say the man from saigon how many true story be put down a sea yarn. it make a man almost shrink from tell an anecdote. 
oh please don t shrink on our account say the smoke room with one voice. 
it s not my own story say the man from saigon. a fellow on a massageries boat tell it me. he have be third officer of a sort on a geordie tramp one of those lumber dish bottom coal barge where the machinery be tie up with a string and the plate be rivetted with putty. the way he tell his tale be this. the tramp have be creep along some sea or other with a chart ten year old and the hazy sort of chronometer when she get into a fog just such a fog a we have now. 
here the smoke room turn round a one man and look through the window. 
in the man s own word just when the fog be thick the engine break down. they have be do this for some week and we be too weary to care. i go forward of the bridge and lean over the side wonder where i should ever get something that i could call a ship and whether the old hulk would fall to piece a she lay. the fog be a thick a any london one but a white a steam. while they be tinker at the engine below i hear a voice in the fog about twenty yard from the ship s side call out can you climb on board if we throw you a rope. that startle me because i fancy we be go to be run down the next minute by a ship engage in rescue a man overboard. i shout for the engine room whistle. and it whistle about five minute but never the sound of a ship could we hear. the ship s boy come forward with some biscuit for me. a he put it into my hand i hear the voice in the fog cry out about throw u a rope. this time it be the boy that yell ship on u. and off go the whistle again while the men in the engine room it generally take the ship s crew to repair the hespa s engine tumble upon deck to know what we be do. i tell them about the hail and we listen in the smother of the fog for the sound of a screw. we listen for ten minute then we blow the whistle for another ten. then the crew begin to call the ship s boy a fool mean that the third mate be no good. when they be go down below i hear the hail the third time so do the ship s boy. there you be i say it be not twenty yard from u. the engineer sing out i hear it too. be you all asleep. then the crew begin to swear at the engineer. and what with discussion argument and a little swear for there be not much discipline on board a tramp we raise such a row that our skipper come aft to enquire. i the engineer and the ship s boy stick to our tale. voice or no voice say the captain you d good patch the old engine up and see if you ve get enough steam to whistle with. i ve a notion that we ve get into rather too crowd way. 
the engineer stay on deck while the men go down below. the skipper hadn t get back to the chart room before i saw thirty foot of bowsprit hang over the break of the fo c sle. thirty foot of bowsprit sir doesn t belong to anything that sail the sea except a sail ship or a man of war. i speculate quite a long time with my hand on the bulwark a to whether our friend be soft wood or steel plat. it would not have make much difference to u anyway. but i felt there be more honour in be ram you know. then i know all about it. it be a ram. we open out. i be not exaggerate we open out sir like a cardboard box. the other ship cut u two third through a little behind the break of the fo c sle. our deck split up lengthways. the mizzen mast bound out of it place and we heel over. then the other ship blow a fog horn. i remember think a i take water from the port bulwark that this be rather ostentatious after she have do all the mischief. after that i be a mile and a half under sea try to go to sleep a hard a i could. some one catch hold of my hair and wake me up. i be hang to what be leave of one of our boat under the lee of a large english ironclad. there be two men with me. the three of u begin to yell. a man on the ship sing out can you climb on board if we throw you a rope. they weren t go to let down a fine new man of war s boat to pick up three half drown rat. we accept the invitation. we climb i the engineer and the ship s boy. about half an hour late the fog clear entirely. except for the half of the boat away in the off there be neither stick nor string on the sea to show that the hespa have be cut down. 
and what do you think of that now. say the man from saigon. 
private learoyd s story. 
and he tell a tale. chronicle of gautama buddha. 
far from the haunt of company officer who insist upon kit inspection far from keen nose sergeant who sniff the pipe stuff into the bed roll two mile from the tumult of the barrack lie the trap. it be an old dry well shadow by a twist pipal tree and fence with high grass. here in the year go by do private ortheris establish his depot and menagerie for such possession dead and live a could not safely be introduce to the barrack room. here be gather houdin pullet and fox terrier of undoubted pedigree and more than doubtful ownership for ortheris be an inveterate poacher and pre eminent among a regiment of neat hand dog stealer. 
never again will the long lazy evening return wherein ortheris whistle softly move surgeon wise among the captive of his craft at the bottom of the well. when learoyd sit in the niche give sage counsel on the management of tyke and mulvaney from the crook of the overhang pipal_ wave his enormous boot in benediction above our head delight u with tale of love and war and strange experience of city and men. 
ortheris land at last in the little stuff bird shop for which your soul long. learoyd back again in the smoky stone rib north amid the clang of the bradford loom. mulvaney grizzle tender and very wise ulysses swelter on the earthwork of a central india line judge if i have forget old day in the trap. 
orth ri a allus think he knaws more than other foaks say she wasn t a real laady but nobbut a hewrasian. i don t gainsay a her culler be a bite doosky like. but she be a laady. why she ride iv a carriage an good os too an her air be that oil a you could see your faice in it an she wear dimond ring an a goold chain an silk an satin dress a mun a cost a deal for it isn t a cheap shop a keep enough o one pattern to fit a figure like hers. her name be mr. desussa an t waay i coom to be acquaint wi her be along of our colonel s laady s dog rip. 
i ve see a vast o dog but rip be t pretty picter of a cliver fox tarrier at iv i set eye on. he could do owt you like but speeak an t colonel s laady set more store by him than if he hed be a christian. she hed bairn of her awn but they be i england and rip seem to get all t coodlin and pettin a belong to a bairn by good right. 
but rip be a bite on a rover an hed a habit o breakin out o barricks like and trottin round t plaice a if he be t cantonment magistrate coom round inspectin. the colonel leather him once or twice but rip didn t care an keep on gooin his round wi his taail a waggin a if he be flag signallin to t world at large at he be gettin on nicely thank yo and how s yo sen. an then t colonel a be noa sort of a hand wi a dog tee him oop. a real clipper of a dog an it s noa wonder yon laady. mr. desussa should tek a fancy tiv him. theer s one o t ten commandment say yo maun t cuwet your neebor s ox nor his jackass but it doesn t say nowt about his tarrier dog an happen thot s t reason why mr. desussa cuvveted rip tho she go to church reg lar along wi her husband who be so mich dark at if he hedn t such a good coaat tiv his back yo might ha call him a black man and nut tell a lee nawther. they say he addle his brass i jute an he d a rare lot on it. 
well you see when they tee rip up t poor awd lad didn t enjoy very good elth. so t colonel s laady send for me a ad a naame for bein knowledgeable about a dog an ax what s ailin wi him. 
why say i he s getten t mope an what he want be his libbaty an coompany like t rest on u wal happen a rat or two ud liven him oop. it s low mum say i be rat but it s t nature of a dog. an soa s cuttin round an meetin another dog or two an passin t time o day. an hevvin a bite of a turn up wi him like a christian. 
so she say her dog maunt niver fight an noa christian iv fight. 
then what s a soldier for. say i. an i explain to her t contrairy quality of a dog at when yo coom to think on t be one o t curusest thing a be. for they larn to behave theirsens like gentleman bear fit for t fost o coompany they tell me t widdy herself be fond of a good dog and knaws one when she see it a well a onny body. then on t other hand a tewin round after cat an gettin mix oop i all manner o blackguardly street row an killin rat an fightin like divils. 
t colonel s laady say. well learoyd i doan t agree wi you but you re right in a way o speeakin an i should like yo to tek rip out a walkin wi you sometimes. but yo maun t let him fight nor chase cat nor do nowt orrid. an them be her very wods. 
soa rip an me go out a walkin o evenin s he bein a dog a do credit tiv a man an i catch a lot o rat an we hed a bite of a match on in an awd dry swimmin bath at back o t cantonment an it be none so long afore he be a bright a a button again. he hed a way o flyin at them big yaller pariah dog a if he be a harrow offan a bow an though his weight be nowt he tuk em so suddint like they roll over like skittle in a halley an when they coot he stretch after em a if he be rabbit runnin. saame with cat when he cud get t cat agaate o runnin. 
one evenin him an me be trespassin ovver a compound wall after one of them mongoose at he d start an we be busy grubbin round a prickle bush an when we look up there be mr. desussa wi a parasel ovver her shoulder a watchin u. oh my. she sing out. there s that lovelee dog. would he let me stroke him mister soldier. 
ay he would mum sez i for he s fond o laady s coompany. coom here rip an speeak to this kind laady. an rip seein at t mongoose hed getten clean awaay cooms up like t gentleman he be nivver a hauporth shy or okkord. 
oh you beautiful you prettee dog. she say clippin an chantin her speech in a way them sooart ha o their awn. i would like a dog like you. you be so verree lovelee so awfullee prettee an all thot sort o talk at a dog o sense mebbe think nowt on tho he bid it by reason o his breedin. 
an then i mek him joomp ovver my swagger cane an shek hand an beg an lie dead an a lot o them trick a laadies teeaches dog though i doan t haud with it mysen for it s makin a fool o a good dog to do such like. 
an at lung length it cooms out at she d be thrawin sheep s eye a t sayin be at rip for many a day. yo see her childer be grow up an she d nowt mich to do an be allus fond of a dog. soa she ax me if i d tek somethin to dhrink. an we go into t draw room wheer her husband be a settin. they mek a gurt fuss ower t dog an i ha a bottle o aale an he give me a handful o cigar. 
soa i coomed away but t awd lass sing out oh mister soldier please coom again and bring that prettee dog. 
i didn t let on to t colonel s laady about mr. desussa and rip he say nowt nawther. an i gooes again an ivry time there be a good dhrink an a handful o good smooaks. an i tell t awd lass a heeap more about rip than i d ever heeared. how he tuk t fost prize at lunnon dog show and cost thotty three pound fower shillin from t man a breed him. at his own brother be t propputty o t prince o wail an at he have a pedigree a long a a dook s. an she lap it all oop an be niver tire o admirin him. but when t awe lass take to givin me money an i seed at she be gettin fair fond about t dog i begin to suspicion summat. onny body may give a soldier t price of a pint in a friendly way an theer s no arm do but when it cooms to five rupee slipt into your hand sly like why it s what t lectioneerin fellow call bribery an corruption. specially when mr. desussa threwed hint how t cold weather would soon be ower an she be goin to munsooree pahar an we be goin to rawalpindi an she would niver see rip any more onless somebody she know on would be kind tiv her. 
soa i tell mulvaney an ortheris all t taale thro beginnin to end. 
ti larceny that wicked ould laady mane say t irishman ti felony she be sejuicin ye into my frind learoyd but i ll purtect your innocince. i ll save ye from the wicked wile av that wealthy ould woman an i ll go wid ye this evenin and spake to her the wurrds av truth an honesty. but jock say he waggin his heead twas not like ye to kape all that good dhrink an thim fine cigar to yerself while orth ri here an me have be prowlin round wid throat a dry a lime kiln and nothin to smoke but canteen plug. twas a dhirty thrick to play on a comrade for why should you learoyd be balancin yourself on the butt av a satin chair a if terence mulvaney be not the aquil av anybody who thrades in jute. 
let alone me/ stick in orth ri but that s like life. them wot s really fit to decorate society get no show while a blunderin yorkshireman like you. 
nay say i it s none o t blunderin yorkshireman she want. it s rip. he s the gentleman this journey. 
soa t next day mulvaney an rip an me go to mr. desussa s an t irishman bein a strainger she wor a bite shy at fost. but you ve heeard mulvaney talk an yo may believe a he fairly bewitch t awd lass wal she let out at she want to tek rip away wi her to munsooree pahar. then mulvaney change his tune an ax her solemn like if she d think o t consequence o gettin two poor but honest soldier send t andamning island. mr. desussa begin to cry so mulvaney turn round oppen t other tack and smooth her down allowin at rip ud be a vast good off in t hill than down i bengal and twas a pity he shouldn t go wheer he be so well beliked. and soa he go on backin an fillin an workin up t awd lass wal she felt a if her life warn t worth nowt if she didn t hev t dog. 
then all of a suddint he say. but ye shall have him marm for i ve a feelin heart not like this could blood yorkshireman. but twill cost ye not a penny le than three hundher rupee. 
don t yo believe him mum say i. t colonel s laady wouldn t tek five hundred for him. 
who say she would. say mulvaney. it s not buyin him i mane but for the sake o this kind good laady i ll do what i never dream to do in my life. i ll stale him. 
don t say steal say mr. desussa. he shall have the happy home. dog often get lose you know and then they stray an he like me and i like him a i niver like a dog yet an i must hev him. if i get him at t last minute i could carry him off to munsooree pahar and nobody would niver knaw. 
now an again mulvaney look acrost at me an though i could mak nowt o what he be after i conclude to take his leead. 
well mum i say i never thowt to coom down to dog steealin but if my comrade see how it could be do to oblige a laady like yo sen i m nut t man to hod back tho it s a bad business i m thinkin an three hundred rupee be a poor set off again t chance of them damn island a mulvaney talk on. 
i ll mek it three fifty say mr. desussa. only let me hev t dog. 
so we let her persuade u an she teks rip s measure theer an then an send to hamilton s to order a silver collar again t time when he be to be her awn which be to be t day she set off for munsooree pahar. 
sitha mulvaney say i when we be outside you re niver goin to let her hev rip. 
an would ye disappoint a poor old woman. say he. she shall have a rip. 
an wheer s he to come through. say i. 
learoyd my man he sing out you re a pretty man av your inch an a good comrade but your head be make av duff. isn t our friend orth ri a taxidermist an a rale artist wid his nimble white finger. an what s a taxidermist but a man who can thrate shkins. do ye mind the white dog that belong to the canteen sargint bad ce to him he that s lose half his time an snarlin the rest. he shall be lose for good now. an do ye mind that he s the very spit in shape an size av the colonel s barrin that his tail be an inch too long an he ha none av the colour that divarsifies the rale rip an his timper be that av his masther an bad. but fwhat be an inch on a dog s tail. an fwhat to a professional like orth ri be a few ringstraked shpots av black brown an white. nothin at all at all. 
then we meet orth ri an that little man bein sharp a a needle seed his way through t business in a minute. an he go to work a practisin air dye the very next day beginnin on some white rabbit he have an then he drored all rip s markin s on t back of a white commissariat bullock so a to get his and in an be sure of his colour. shadin off brown into black a nateral a life. if rip hed a fault it be too mich markin but it be straingely reg lar an orth ri settle himself to make a fost rate job on it when he get haud o t canteen sargint s dog. theer niver be sich a dog a thot for bad timper an it do nut get no good when his tail hed to be fettle an inch an a half short. but they may talk o theer royal academy a they like. i niver seed a bite o animal paintin to beat t copy a orth ri make of rip s mark wal t picter itself be snarlin all t time an tryin to get at rip standin theer to be copy a good a goold. 
orth ri allus hed a mich conceit on himsen a would lift a balloon an he wor so pleeased wi his sham rip he wor for tekking him to mr. desussa before she go away. but mulvaney an me stop thot knowin orth ri s work though niver so cliver be nobut skin deep. 
an at last mr. desussa fix t day for startin to munsooree pahar. we be to tek rip to t stayshun i a basket an hand him ovver just when they be ready to start an then she d give u t brass a be agree upon. 
an my wod. it be high time she be off for them air dye upon t cur s back take a vast of paintin to keep t reet culler tho orth ri spend a matter o seven rupee six anna i t best drooggist shop i calcutta. 
an t canteen sargint be lookin for be dog everywheer. an wi bein tie up t beast s timper get waur nor ever. 
it wor i t evenin when t train start thro howrah an we elped mr. desussa wi about sixty box an then we give her t basket. orth ri for pride av his work ax u to let him coom along wi u an he couldn t help liftin t lid an showin t cur a he lay coil oop. 
oh. say t awd lass. the beautee. how sweet he look. an just then t beauty snarl an show his teeth so mulvaney shut down t lid and say. ye ll be careful marm whin ye tek him out. he s disaccustomed to travel by t railway an he ll be sure to want his rale mistress an his friend learoyd so ye ll make allowance for his feeling at fost. 
she would do all thot an more for the dear good rip an she would nut oppen t basket till they be mile away for fear anybody should recognise him an we be real good and kind soldier men we be an she bond me a bundle o note an then cooms up a few of her relation an friend to say good by not more than seventy five there wasn t an we cut away. 
what coom to t three hundred and fifty rupee. thot s what i can scarcelins tell yo but we melt it we melt it. it be share an share alike for mulvaney say. if learoyd get hold of mr. desussa first sure twas i that renumbered the sargint s dog just in the nick av time an orth ri be the artist av janius that make a work av art out av that ugly piece av ill nature. yet by way av a thank offerin that i be not lead into felony by that wicked ould woman i ll send a thrifle to father victor for the poor people he s always beggin for. 
but me an orth ri he bein cockney an i bein pretty far north do nut see it i t saame way. we d getten t brass an we mean to keep it. an soa we do for a short time. 
noa noa we niver heered a wod more o t awd lass. our rig mint go to pindi an t canteen sargint he get himself another tyke insteead o t one at get lose so reg lar an be lose for good at last. 
the big drink draf. 
we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you mu pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll many you yet on a fourp ny bite a a time expire ma a an. barrack room ballad. 
an awful thing ha happen. my friend private mulvaney who go home in the serapis_ time expire not very long ago ha come back to india a a civilian. it be all dinah shadd s fault. she could not stand the poky little lodging and she miss her servant abdullah more than word could tell. the fact be that the mulvaneys have be out here too long and have lose touch of england. 
mulvaney know a contractor on one of the new central india line and write to him for some sort of work. the contractor say that if mulvaney could pay the passage he would give him command of a gang of cooly for old sake s sake. the pay be eighty five rupee a month and dinah shadd say that if terence do not accept she would make his life a baste purgathory. therefore the mulvaneys come out a civilian which be a great and terrible fall. though mulvaney try to disguise it by say that he be k nel on the railway line an a consequinshal man. 
he write me an invitation on a tool indent form to visit him. and i come down to the funny little construction bungalow at the side of the line. dinah shadd have plant pea about and about and nature have spread all manner of green stuff round the place. there be no change in mulvaney except the change of clothe which be deplorable but could not be help. he be stand upon his trolly harangue a gangman and his shoulder be a well drill and his big thick chin be a clean shave a ever. 
i m a civilian now say mulvaney. cud you tell that i be iv a martial man. don t answer sorr av you re strainin betune a compliment an a lie. there s no houldin dinah shadd now she s get a house av her own. go inside an dhrink tay out av chiny in the drrrrawin room an thin we ll dhrink like christian undher the tree here. scutt ye naygur folk. there s a sahib come to call on me an that s more than he ll iv do for you onless you run. get out an go on pilin up the earth quick till sundown. 
when we three be comfortably settle under the big sisham in front of the bungalow and the first rush of question and answer about private ortheris and learoyd and old time and place have die away mulvaney say reflectively glory be there s no p rade to morrow an no bun head corp ril bhoy to give you his lip. an yit i don t know. ti harrd to be something ye niver be an niver mean to be an all the ould day shut up along wid your paper. eyah. i m growin rusty an ti the will av god that a man mustn t serve his quane for time an all. 
he help himself to a fresh peg and sigh furiously. 
let your beard grow mulvaney say i and then you win t be trouble with those notion. you ll be a real civilian. 
dinah shadd have tell me in the draw room of her desire to coax mulvaney into let his beard grow. twas so civilian like say poor dinah who hat her husband s hanker for his old life. 
dinah shadd you re a dishgrace to an honust clanescraped man. say mulvaney without reply to me. grow a beard on your own chin darlint and lave my razor alone. they re all that stand betune me and dis ri pect ability. av i didn t shave i wud be torminted wid an outrajis thurrst. for there s nothin so dhryin to the throat a a big billy goat beard waggin undher the chin. ye wudn t have me dhrink always dinah shadd. by the same token you re kapin me crool dhry now. let me look at that whiskey. 
the whiskey be lend and return but dinah shadd who have be just a eager a her husband in ask after old friend rent me with. 
i take shame for you sorr come down here though the saint know you re a welkim a the daylight whin you do come an upsettin terence s head wid your nonsense about about fwhat s much good forget. he bein a civilian now an you niver be aught else. can you not let the arrmy rest. ti not good for terence. 
i take refuge by mulvaney for dinah shadd ha a temper of her own. 
let be let be say mulvaney. ti only wanst in a way i can talk about the ould day. then to me. ye say dhrumshticks be well an his lady tu. i niver know how i like the gray garron till i be shut av him an asia. dhrumshticks be the nickname of the colonel command mulvaney s old regiment. will you be seein him again. you will. thin tell him mulvaney s eye begin to twinkle tell him wid privit. 
mister terence interrupt dinah shadd. 
now the divil an all his angils an the firmament av hiven fly away wid the mister an the sin av make me swear be on your confession dinah shadd. privit_ i tell ye. wid privit mulvaney s best obedience that but for me the last time expire wud be still pullin hair on their way to the sea. 
he throw himself back in the chair chuckle and be silent. 
mr. mulvaney i say please take up the whiskey and don t let him have it until he ha tell the story. 
dinah shadd dexterously whip the bottle away say at the same time ti nothing to be proud av and thus capture by the enemy mulvaney spake. 
twas on chuseday week. i be behaderin round wid the gang on the bankmint i ve teach the hopper how to kape step an stop screechin whin a head gangman come up to me wid two inch av shirt tail hang round his neck an a disthressful light in his oi. sahib sez he there s a rig mint an a half av soldier up at the junction knockin red cinder out av ivrything an ivrybody. they thried to hang me in my cloth he sez an there will be murder an ruin an rape in the place before nightfall. they say they re comin down here to wake u up. what will we do wid our woman folk. 
fetch my throlly. sez i. my heart s sick in my rib for a wink at anything wid the quane s uniform on ut. fetch my throlly an six av the jildiest men and run me up in shtyle. 
he tuk his best coat say dinah shadd reproachfully. 
twas to do honour to the widdy. i cud ha do no le dinah shadd. you and your digresshins interfere wid the coorse av the narrative. have you iv considhered fwhat i wud look like wid me head shave a well a my chin. you bear that in your mind dinah darlin. 
i be throllied up six mile all to get a shquint at that draf. i know twas a spring draf goin home for there s no rig mint hereabouts more s the pity. 
praise the virgin. murmur dinah shadd. but mulvaney do not hear. 
whin i be about three quarter av a mile off the rest camp powtherin along fit to burrst i hear the noise av the men an on my sowl sorr i cud catch the voice av peg barney bellowin like a bison wid the belly ache. you remimber peg barney that be in d comp ny a red hairy scraun wid a scar on his jaw. peg barney that clear out the blue light jubilee meet wid the cook room mop last year. 
thin i know ut be a draf of the ould rig mint an i be conshumed wid sorrow for the bhoy that be in charge. we be harrd scrapin s at any time. do i iv tell you how horker kelley go into clink nakid a phoebus apollonius wid the shirt av the corp ril an file undher his arrum. an he be a moild man. but i m digreshin. ti a shame both to the rig mint and the arrmy sendin down little orf cer bhoys wid a draf av strong men mad wid liquor an the chanst av gettin shut av india an niver a punishment that s fit to be give right down an away from cantonmints to the dock. ti this nonsince. whin i be servin my time i m undher the article av war an can be whip on the peg for thim. but whin i ve serve my time i m a reserve man an the article av war haven t any hould on me. an orf cer can t do anythin to a time expire savin confinin him to barricks. ti a wise rig lation bekaze a time expire doe not have any barricks. bein on the move all the time. ti a solomon av a rig lation be that. i wud like to be inthroduced to the man that make ut. ti easy to get colt from a kibbereen horse fair into galway than to take a bad draf over ten mile av country. consiquintly that rig lation for fear that the men wud be hurt by the little orf cer bhoy. no matther. the near my throlly come to the rest camp the woilder be the shine an the loud be the voice av peg barney. ti good i be here think i to myself for peg alone be employmint for two or three. he bein i well know a cop a a dhrover. 
faith that rest camp be a sight. the tent rope be all skew nose an the peg look a dhrunk a the men fifty av thim the scourin s an rinsin s an divil s lavin s av the ould rig mint. i tell you sorr they be dhrunker than any men you ve ever see in your mortial life. how doe a draf get dhrunk. how doe a frog get fat. they suk ut in through their shkins. 
there be peg barney sittin on the groun in his shirt wan shoe off an wan shoe on whackin a tent peg over the head wid his boot an singin fit to wake the dead. twas no clane song that he sing though. twas the divil s mass. 
what s that. i ask. 
whin a bad egg be shut av the arrmy he sing the divil s mass for a good riddance. an that mane swearin at ivrything from the commandher in chief down to the room corp ril such a you niver in your day hear. some men can swear so a to make green turf crack. have you iv hear the curse in an orange lodge. the divil s mass be ten time bad an peg barney be singin ut whackin the tent peg on the head wid his boot for each man that he curse. a powerful big voice have peg barney an a hard swearer he be whin sober. i stand forninst him an twas not me oi alone that cud tell peg be dhrunk a a coot. 
good mornin peg i sez whin he dhrew breath afther cursin the adj tint gen ral. i ve put on my best coat to see you peg barney sez i. 
thin take ut off again sez peg barney latherin away wid the boot. take ut off an dance ye lousy civilian. 
wid that he begin cursin ould dhrumshticks be so full he clean disremimbers the brigade major an the judge advokit gen ral. 
do you know me peg. sez i though me blood be hot in me wid be call a civilian. 
an him a decent marry man. wail dinah shadd. 
i do not sez peg but dhrunk or sober i ll tear the hide off your back wid a shovel whin i ve stop singin. 
say you so peg barney. sez i. ti clear a mud you ve forget me. i ll assist your autobiography. wid that i stretch peg barney boot an all an wint into the camp. an awful sight ut be. 
where s the orf cer in charge av the detachment. sez i to scrub greene the manest little worm that ever walk. 
there s no orf cer ye ould cook sez scrub. we re a bloomin republic. 
be you that. sez i. thin i m o connell the dictator an by this you will larn to kape a civil tongue in your rag box. 
wid that i stretch scrub greene an wint to the orf cer s tent. twas a new little bhoy not wan i d iv see before. he be sittin in his tent purtendin not to ave ear av the racket. 
i salute but for the life av me i mint to shake hand whin i go in. twas the sword hangin on the tentpole change my will. 
can t i help sorr. sez i. ti a strong man s job they ve give you an you ll be wantin help by sundown. he be a bhoy wid bowils that child an a rale gintleman. 
sit down sez he. 
not before my orf cer sez i. an i tould him fwhat my service be. 
i ve hear av you sez he. you tuk the town av lungtungpen nakid. 
faith think i that s honour an glory. for twas lift nint brazenose do that job. i m wid ye sorr sez i if i m av use. they shud niver ha send you down wid the draf. savin your presince sorr i sez ti only lift nint hackerston in the ould rig mint can manage a home draf. 
i ve niver have charge of men like this before sez he playin wid the pen on the table. an i see by the rig lations. 
shut your oi to the rig lations sorr i sez till the throoper s into blue wather. by the rig lations you ve get to tuck thim up for the night or they ll be runnin foul av my cooly an makin a shiverarium half through the country. can you trust your non coms sorr. 
yes sez he. 
good sez i. there ll be throuble before the night. be you marchin sorr. 
to the next station sez he. 
good still sez i. there ll be big throuble. 
can t be too hard on a home draf sez he. the great thing be to get thim in ship. 
faith you ve larnt the half av your lesson sorr sez i but av you shtick to the rig lations you ll niver get thim in ship at all at all. or there win t be a rag av kit betune thim whin you do. 
twas a dear little orf cer bhoy an by way av kapin his heart up i tould him fwhat i saw wanst in a draf in egypt. 
what be that mulvaney. say i. 
sivin an fifty men sittin on the bank av a canal laughin at a poor little squidgereen av an orf cer that they d make wade into the slush an pitch the thing out av the boat for their lord high mightiness. that make me orf cer bhoy woild with indignation. 
soft an aisy sorr sez i. you ve niver have your draf in hand since you leave cantonmints. wait till the night an your work will be ready to you. wid your permission sorr i will investigate the camp an talk to my ould frinds. ti no manner av use thryin to shtop the divilment now. 
wid that i wint out into the camp an inthrojuced mysilf to ivry man sober enough to remimber me. i be some wan in the ould day an the bhoys be glad to see me all excipt peg barney wid a eye like a tomata five day in the bazar an a nose to match. they come round me an shuk me an i tould thim i be in privit employ wid an income av me own an a drrrawin room fit to bate the quane s. an wid me lie an me shtories an nonsinse gin rally i keep em quiet in wan way an another knockin roun the camp. twas bad even thin whin i be the angil av peace. 
i talk to me ould non coms they be sober an betune me an thim we wear the draf over into their tent at the proper time. the little orf cer bhoy he come round decint an civil speak a might be. 
rough quarter men sez he but you can t look to be a comfortable a in barricks. we must make the best av thing. i ve shut my eye to a dale av dog s trick today an now there must be no more av ut. 
no more we will. come an have a dhrink me son sez peg barney staggerin where he stud. me little orf cer bhoy kep his timper. 
you re a sulky swine you be sez peg barney an at that the men in the tent begin to laugh. 
i tould you me orf cer bhoy have bowils. he cut peg barney a near a might be on the oi that i d squshed whin we first meet. peg wint spinnin acrost the tent. 
peg him out sorr sez i in a whishper. 
peg him out. sez me orf cer bhoy up loud just a if twas battalion p rade an he pickin his wurrds from the sargint. 
the non coms tuk peg barney a howlin handful he be an in three minute he be peg out chin down tight dhrawn on his stummick a tent peg to each arm an leg swearin fit to turn a naygur white. 
i tuk a peg an jam ut into his ugly jaw. bite on that peg barney i sez. the night be settin frosty an you ll be wantin divarsion before the mornin. but for the rig lations you d be bitin on a bullet now at the thriangles peg barney sez i. 
all the draf be out av their tent watchin barney bein peg. 
ti agin the rig lations. he strook him. screech out scrub greene who be always a lawyer. an some of the men tuk up the shoutin. 
peg out that man. sez my orf cer bhoy niver losin his timper. an the non coms wint in and peg out scrub greene by the side av peg barney. 
i cud see that the draf be comin roun. the men stud not knowin fwhat to do. 
get to your tent. sez me orf cer bhoy. sargint put a sintry over these two men. 
the men wint back into the tent like jackal an the rest av the night there be no noise at all excipt the stip av the sintry over the two an scrub greene blubberin like a child. twas a chilly night an faith ut sober peg barney. 
just before revelly my orf cer bhoy come out an sez. loose those men an send thim to their tent. scrub greene wint away widout a word but peg barney stiff wid the cowld stud like a sheep thryin to make his orf cer understhand he be sorry for playin the goat. 
there be no tucker in the draf whin ut fell in for the march an divil a wurrd about illegality cud i hear. 
i wint to the ould colour sargint and i sez. let me die in glory sez i. i ve see a man this day. 
a man he be sez ould hother. the draf s a sick a a herrin. they ll all go down to the sea like lamb. that bhoy ha the bowils av a cantonmint av gin rals. 
amin sez i an good luck go wid him wheriver he be by land or by sea. let me know how the draf get clear. 
an do you know how they do. that bhoy so i be tould by letter from bombay bullydamned em down to the dock till they cudn t call their sowls their own. from the time they leave me oi till they be tween deck not wan av thim be more than dacintly dhrunk. an by the holy article av war whin they wint aboard they cheer him till they cudn t spake an that_ mark you ha not come about wid a draf in the mim ry av livin man. you look to that little orf cer bhoy. he ha bowils. ti not ivry child that wud chuck the rig lations to flanders an stretch peg barney on a wink from a brokin an dilapidate ould carkiss like mesilf. i d be proud to serve. 
terence you re a civilian say dinah shadd warningly. 
so i be so i be. be ut likely i wud forget ut. but he be a gran bhoy all the same an i m only a mud tipper wid a hod on my shoulthers. the whiskey s in the heel av your hand sorr. wid your good lave we ll dhrink to the ould rig mint three finger standin up. 
and we drink. 
the wreck of the visigoth. 
[footnote. ]. 
eternal father strong to save whose arm hath bind the restless wave who bidst the mighty ocean keep it own appoint limit deep. 
the lady passenger be try the wheezy old harmonium in front of the cuddy because it be sunday night. in the patch of darkness near the wheel grate sit the captain and the end of his cheroot burn like a head lamp. there be neither breath nor motion upon the water through which the screw be thud. they spread dull silver under the haze of the moonlight till they join the low coast of malacca away to the eastward. the voice of the singer at the harmonium be hold down by the awning and come to u with force. 
oh hear u when we cry to thee for those in peril on the sea. 
it be a though the little congregation be afraid of the vastness of the sea. but a laugh follow and some one say shall we take it through again a little quick. then the captain tell the story of just such a night lower his voice for fear of disturb the music and the mind of the passenger. 
she be the visigoth_ five hundred ton or it may have be six in the coast trade. one of the best steamer and best find on the kutch kasauli line. she wasn t six year old when the thing happen. on just such a night a this with an oily smooth sea under brilliant starlight about a hundred mile from land. to this day no one know really what the matter be. she be so small that she could not have strike even a log in the water without every soul on board feel the jar. and even if she have strike something it wouldn t have make her go down a she do. i be fourth officer then. we have about seven saloon passenger include the captain s wife and another woman and perhaps five hundred deck passenger go up the coast to a shrine on just such a night a this when she be rip through the level sea at a level nine knot an hour. the man on the bridge whoever it be saw that she be sink at the head. sink by the head a she go along. that be the only warn we get. she begin to sink a she go along. of course the captain be tell and he send me to wake up the saloon passenger and tell them to come on deck. sound a curious sort of message that to deliver on a dead still night. the people tumble up in their dress gown and pyjamas_ and wouldn t believe me. we be just sink a fast a we could and i have to tell em that. then the deck passenger get wind of it and all hell wake up along the deck. 
the rule in these little affair be to get your saloon passenger off first then to fill the boat with the balance and afterwards god help the extra that s all. i be get the starboard stern boat the mail boat away. it hang a it might be over yonder and a i come along from the cuddy the deck passenger hang round me shove their money belt into my hand take off their nose ring and earring and thrust em upon me to buy just one chance for life. if i hadn t be so desperately busy i should have think it horrible. i put biscuit and water into the boat and get the two lady in. one of em be the captain s wife. she have to be put in by main force. you ve no notion how woman can struggle. the other woman be the wife of an officer go to meet her husband. and there be a couple of passenger beside the lascar. the captain say he be go to stay with the ship. you see the rule in these affair i believe be that the captain ha to bow gracefully from the bridge and go down. i haven t have a ship under my charge wreck yet. when that come i ll have to do like the others. after the boat be away and i saw that there be nothing to be get by wait i jump overboard exactly a i might have vault over into a flat green field and strike out for the mail boat. another officer do the same thing but he go for a boat full of native and they whack him on the chest with oar so he have some difficulty in climb in. 
it be a well that i reach the mail boat. there be a compass in it but the idiot have manage to fill the boat half full of water somehow or another and none of the crew seem to know what be require of them. then the visigoth go down and take every one with her ship generally do that. the corps don t cumber the sea for some time. 
what do i do. i keep all the boat together and head into the track of the coast steamer. the aggravate thing be the think that we be close to land a far a a big steamer be concern and in the middle of eternity a far a regard a little boat. the sea look hugeous big from a boat at night. 
oh christ whose voice the water hear and hush their raving at thy word who walkedst on the foam deep and calm amidst it rage do keep oh hear u when we cry to thee for those in peril on the sea. 
sing the passenger cheerily. 
that harmonium be disgracefully out of tune say the captain. the sea air affect their inside. well a i be say we settle down in the boat. the captain s wife be unconscious. she lay in the bottom of the boat and moan. i be glad she wasn t thresh about the boat. but what i do think be wrong be the way the two men passenger behave. they be useless with funk out and out fear. they lay in the boat and do nothing. fetch a groan now and again to show they be alive. but that be all. but the other woman be a jewel. damn it it be worth be shipwreck to have that woman in the boat. she be awfully handsome and a brave a she be lovely. she help me bail out the boat and she work like a man. 
so we kick about the sea from midnight till seven the next even and then we saw a steamer. i ll i ll give you anything i m wear to hoist a a signal of distress say the woman. but i have no need to ask her for the steamer pick u up and take u back to bombay. i forget to tell you that when the day break i couldn t recognise the captain s wife widow i mean. she have change in the night a if fire have go over her. i meet her a long time afterwards and even then she hadn t forgive me for put her into the boat and obey the captain s order. but the husband of the other woman he s in the army write me no end of a letter of thank. i don t suppose he consider that the way his wife behave be enough to make any decent man do all he could. the other fellow who lay in the bottom of the boat and groan i ve never meet. don t want to. shouldn t be civil to em if i do. and that s how the visigoth go down for no assignable reason with eighty bag of mail five hundred soul and not a single packet insure on just such a night a this. 
oh trinity of love and power our brother shield in that dread hour from rock and tempest fire and foe protect them whereso er they go. thus evermore shall rise to thee glad hymn of praise by land and sea. 
strike me they ll go on sing that hymn all night. imperfect sort of doctrine in the last line don t you think. they might have run in an extra verse specify sudden collapse like the visigoth s. i m go on to the bridge now. good night say the captain. 
and i be leave alone with the steady thud thud of the screw and the gentle creak of the boat at the davit. 
that make me shudder. 
the solid muldoon. 
do ye see john malone wid his shinin brand new hat. do ye see how he walk like a grand aristocrat. there be flag an banner wavin high an dhress and shtyle be show but the best av all the company be misther john malone. john malone. 
there have be a royal dog fight in the ravine at the back of the rifle butt between learoyd s jock and ortheris s blue rot both mongrel rampur hound chiefly rib and teeth. it last for twenty happy howl minute and then blue rot collapse and ortheris pay learoyd three rupee and we be all very thirsty. a dog fight be a most heat entertainment quite apart from the shout because rampurs fight over a couple of acre of grind. late when the sound of belt badge click against the neck of beer bottle have die away conversation drift from dog to man fight of all kind. human resemble red deer in some respect. any talk of fight seem to wake up a sort of imp in their breast and they bell one to the other exactly like challenge buck. this be noticeable even in men who consider themselves superior to private of the line. it show the refine influence of civilisation and the march of progress. 
tale provoke tale and each tale more beer. even dreamy learoyd s eye begin to brighten and he unburden himself of a long history in which a trip to malham cove a girl at pateley brigg a ganger himself and a pair of clog be mix in drawl tangle. 
an so ah coot s yead oppen from t chin to t hair an he be abed for t matter o a month conclude learoyd pensively. 
mulvaney come out of a reverie he be lie down and flourish his heel in the air. you re a man learoyd say he critically but you ve only fight wid men an that s an ivry day expayrience. but i ve stud up to a ghost an that be not an ivry day expayrience. 
no. say ortheris throw a cork at him. you git up an address the ouse you an yer expayriences. be it a big one nor usual. 
twas the livin trut. answer mulvaney stretch out a huge arm and catch ortheris by the collar. now where be ye me son. will ye take the wurrud av the lorrd out av my mouth another time. he shake him to emphasise the question. 
no somethin else though say ortheris make a dash at mulvaney s pipe capture it and hold it at arm s length. i ll chuck it acrost the ditch if you don t let me go. 
you maraudin hathen. ti the only cutty i iv love. handle her tinder or i ll chuck you acrost the nullah. if that poipe be bruk ah. give her back to me sorr. 
ortheris have pass the treasure to my hand. it be an absolutely perfect clay a shiny a the black ball at pool. i take it reverently but i be firm. 
will you tell u about the ghost fight if i do. i say. 
be ut the shtory that s troublin you. av course i will. i mint to all along. i be only gettin at ut my own way a popp doggle say whin they find him thrying to ram a cartridge down the muzzle. orth ri fall away. 
he release the little londoner take back his pipe fill it and his eye twinkle. he ha the most eloquent eye of any one that i know. 
do i iv tell you he begin that i be wanst the divil av a man. 
you do say learoyd with a childish gravity that make ortheris yell with laughter for mulvaney be always impress upon u his great merit in the old day. 
do i iv tell you mulvaney continue calmly that i be wanst more av a divil than i be now. 
m ria. you don t mean it. say ortheris. 
whin i be corp ril i be rejuced aftherwards but a i say whin i be corp ril i be a divil of a man. 
he be silent for nearly a minute while his mind rummage among old memory and his eye glow. he bite upon the pipe stem and charge into his tale. 
eyah. they be great time. i m ould now. me hide s wear off in patch. sinthrygo ha disconceited me an i m a marry man tu. but i ve have my day i ve have my day an nothin can take away the taste av that. oh my time past whin i put me fut through ivry livin wan av the tin commandmints between revelly and light out blow the froth off a pewter wipe me moustache wid the back av me hand an sleep on ut all a quiet a a little child. but ut s over ut s over an twill niver come back to me. not though i pray for a week av sunday. be there any wan in the ould rig mint to touch corp ril terence mulvaney whin that same be turn out for sedukshin. i niver meet him. ivry woman that be not a witch be worth the runnin afther in those day an ivry man be my dear frind or i have strip to him an we know which be the betther av the tu. 
whin i be corp ril i wud not ha change wid the colonel no nor yet the commandher in chief. i wud be a sargint. there be nothin i wud not be. mother av hivin look at me. fwhat be i now. 
we be quarter in a big cantonmint ti no manner av use namin name for ut might give the barricks disrepitation an i be the imperor av the earth to my own mind an wan or tu woman think the same. small blame to thim. afther we have lie there a year bragin the colour sargint av e comp ny wint an take a wife that be lady s maid to some big lady in the station. she s dead now be annie bragin die in child bed at kirpa tal or ut may ha be almorah seven nine year go an bragin he marry agin. but she be a pretty woman whin bragin inthrojuced her to cantonmint society. she have eye like the brown av a buttherfly s wing whin the sun catch ut an a waist no thick than my arm an a little sof button av a mouth i would ha go through all asia bristlin wid bay nit to get the kiss av. an her hair be a long a the tail av the colonel s charger forgive me mentionin that blunderin baste in the same mouthful with annie bragin but twas all shpun gold an time be when a lock av ut be more than di monds to me. there be niver pretty woman yet an i ve have thruck wid a few cud open the door to annie bragin. 
twas in the cath lic chapel i saw her first me oi roll round a usual to see fwhat be to be see. 
you re too good for bragin my love think i to mesilf but that s a mistake i can put straight or my name be not terence mulvaney. 
now take my wurrd for ut you orth ri there an learoyd an kape out av the marry quarter a i do not. no good iv come av ut an there s always the chance av your bein find wid your face in the dirt a long picket in the back av your head an your hand play the fife on the tread av another man s doorstep. twas so we find o hara he that rafferty kill six year go when he wint to his death wid his hair oil whistlin larry o rourke betune his teeth. kape out av the marry quarter i say a i do not. ti onwholesim ti dangerous an ti ivrything else that s bad but o my sowl ti swate while ut last. 
i be always hangin about there whin i be off duty an bragin wasn t but niver a sweet word beyon ordinar do i get from annie bragin. ti the pervarsity av the sect sez i to mesilf an give my cap another cock on my head an straighten my back twas the back av a dhrum major in those day an wint off a tho i do not care wid all the woman in the marry quarter laughin i be pershuaded most bhoys be i m thinkin that no woman bear av woman cud stand against me av i hild up my little finger. i have reason fer thinkin that way till i meet annie bragin. 
time an agin whin i be blandandherin in the dusk a man wud go past me a quiet a a cat. that s quare think i for i be or i should be the only man in these part. now what divilment can annie be up to. thin i call myself a blayguard for thinkin such thing. but i think thim all the same. an that mark you be the way av a man. 
wan evenin i say. mr. bragin manin no disrespect to you who be that corp ril man i have see the stripe though i cud niver get sight av his face _who be that corp ril man that come in always whin i m goin away. 
mother av god. sez she turnin a white a my belt have you see him too. 
see him. sez i. av coorse i have. do ye want me not to see him for we be standin talkin in the dhark outside the veranda av bragin s quarter you d betther tell me to shut me eye. onless i m mistake he s come now. 
an sure enough the corp ril be walkin to u hangin his head down a though he be ashamed av himsilf. 
good night mr. bragin sez i very cool. ti not for me to interfere wid your a moor. but you might manage thing wid more dacincy. i m off to canteen i sez. 
i turn on my heel an wint away swearin i wud give that man a dhressin that wud shtop him messin about the marry quarter for a month an a week. i have not tuk ten pace before annie bragin be hangin on to my arm an i cud feel that she be shakin all over. 
stay wid me mister mulvaney sez she. you re flesh an blood at the least be ye not. 
i m all that sez i an my anger wint away in a flash. will i want to be ask twice annie. 
wid that i slip my arm round her waist for begad i fancy she have surrindered at discretion an the honour av war be mine. 
fwhat nonsinse be this. sez she dhrawin hersilf up on the tip av her dear little toe. wid the mother s milk not dhry on your impident mouth. let go. she sez. 
do ye not say just now that i be flesh an blood. sez i. i have not change since i sez. an i kep my arm where ut be. 
your arm to yoursilf. sez she an her eye sparkild. 
sure ti only human nature sez i an i kep my arm where ut be. 
nature or no nature sez she you take your arm away or i ll tell bragin an he ll alter the nature av your head. fwhat d you take me for. she sez. 
a woman sez i. the pretty in barricks. 
a wife_ sez she. the straight in cantonmints. 
wid that i drop my arm fell back tu pace an salute for i saw that she mint fwhat she say. 
then you know something that some men would give a good deal to be certain of. how could you tell. i demand in the interest of science. 
watch the hand say mulvaney. av she shut her hand tight thumb down over the knuckle take up your hat an go. you ll only make a fool av yoursilf av you shtay. but av the hand lie opin on the lap or av you see her thryin to shut ut an she can t go on. she s not past reasonin wid. 
well a i be sayin i fell back salute an be goin away. 
shtay wid me she sez. look. he s comin again. 
she point to the veranda an by the hoight av impart nince the corp ril man be comin out av bragin s quarter. 
he s do that these five evenin s past sez annie bragin. oh fwhat will i do. 
he ll not do ut again sez i for i be fightin mad. 
kape away from a man that ha be a thrifle cross in love till the fever s die down. he rage like a brute beast. 
i wint up to the man in the veranda manin a sure a i sit to knock the life out av him. he slip into the open. fwhat be you doin philanderin about here ye scum av the gutter. sez i polite to give him his warnin for i want him ready. 
he niver lift his head but sez all mournful an melancolius a if he think i wud be sorry for him. i can t find her sez he. 
my troth sez i you ve live too long you an your seekin s an findin s in a dacint marry woman s quarter. hould up your head ye freeze thief av genesis sez i an you ll find all you want an more. 
but he niver hild up an i let go from the shoulther to where the hair be short over the eyebrow. 
that ll do your business sez i but it nearly do mine instid. i put my bodyweight behind the blow but i hit nothing at all an near put my shoulther out. the corp ril man be not there an annie bragin who have be watchin from the veranda throw up her heel an carry on like a cock whin his neck s wring by the dhrummer bhoy. i wint back to her for a livin woman an a woman like annie bragin be more than a p rade groun full av ghost. i d niver see a woman faint before an i stud like a shtuck calf askin her whether she be dead an prayin her for the love av me an the love av her husband an the love av the virgin to opin her bless eye again an callin mesilf all the name undher the canopy av hivin for plaguin her wid my miserable a moor whin i ought to ha stud betune her an this corp ril man that have lose the number av his mess. 
i misremimber fwhat nonsinse i say but i be not so far go that i cud not hear a fut on the dirt outside. twas bragin comin in an by the same token annie be comin to. i jump to the far end av the veranda an look a if butter wudn t melt in my mouth. but mr. quinn the quarter master s wife that be have tould bragin about my hangin round annie. 
i m not please wid you mulvaney sez bragin unbucklin his sword for he have be on duty. 
that s bad hearin i sez an i know that the picket be dhriven in. what for sargint. sez i. 
come outside sez he an i ll show you why. 
i m willin i sez. but my stripe be none so ould that i can afford to lose him. tell me now who do i go out wid. sez i. 
he be a quick man an a just an saw fwhat i wud be afther. wid mr. bragin s husband sez he. he might ha know by me askin that favour that i have do him no wrong. 
we wint to the back av the arsenal an i strip to him an for ten minute twas all i cud do to prevent him killin himself against my fistes. he be mad a a dumb dog just froth wid rage. but he have no chanst wid me in reach or learnin or anything else. 
will ye hear reason. sez i whin his first wind be run out. 
not whoile i can see sez he. wid that i give him both one after the other smash through the low gyard that he d be teach whin he be a boy an the eyebrow shut down on the cheek bone like the wing av a sick crow. 
will ye hear reason now ye brave man. sez i. 
not whoile i can speak sez he staggerin up blind a a stump. i be loath to do ut but i wint round an swing into the jaw side on an shift ut a half pace to the lef. 
will ye hear reason now. sez i. i can t keep my timper much long an ti like i will hurt you. 
not whoile i can stand he mumble out av one corner av his mouth. so i close an throw him blind dumb an sick an jam the jaw straight. 
you re an ould fool mister bragin sez i. 
you re a young thief sez he an you ve bruk my heart you an annie betune you. 
thin he begin cryin like a child a he lay. i be sorry a i have niver be before. ti an awful thing to see a strong man cry. 
i ll swear on the cross. sez i. 
i care for none av your oath sez he. 
come back to your quarter sez i an if you don t believe the livin begad you shall listen to the dead i sez. 
i hoist him an tuk him back to his quarter. mr. bragin sez i here s a man that you can cure quick than me. 
you ve sham me before my wife he whimper. 
have i so. sez i. by the look on mr. bragin s face i think i m for a dhressin down bad than i give you. 
an i be. annie bragin be woild wid indignation. there be not a name that a dacint woman cud use that be not give my way. i ve have my colonel walk roun me like a cooper roun a cask for fifteen minute in ord ly room bekaze i wint into the corner shop an unstrapped lewnatic. but all i iv tuk from his rasp av a tongue be ginger pop to fwhat annie tould me. an that mark you be the way av a woman. 
whin ut be do for want av breath an annie be bendin over her husband i sez. ti all thrue an i m a blayguard an you re an honest woman. but will you tell him of wan service that i do you. 
a i finish speakin the corp ril man come up to the veranda an annie bragin shquealed. the moon be up an we cud see his face. 
i can t find her sez the corp ril man an wint out like the puff av a candle. 
saint stand betune u an evil. sez bragin crossin himself. that s flahy av the tyrone. 
who be he. i sez for he ha give me a dale av fightin this day. 
bragin tould u that flahy be a corp ril who lose his wife av cholera in those quarter three year go an wint mad an walk afther they bury him huntin for her. 
well sez i to bragin he s be hookin out av purgathory to kape company wid mr. bragin ivry evenin for the last fortnight. you may tell mr. quinn wid my love for i know that she s be talkin to you an you ve be listenin that she ought to ondherstand the differ twixt a man an a ghost. she s have three husband sez i an you_ ve get a wife too good for you. instid av which you lave her to be boddered by ghost an an all manner av evil spirruts. i ll niver go talkin in the way av politeness to a man s wife again. good night to you both sez i. an wid that i wint away havin fight wid woman man and divil all in the heart av an hour. by the same token i give father victor wan rupee to say a mass for flahy s soul me havin discommode him by shticking my fist into his systim. 
your idea of politeness seem rather large mulvaney i say. 
that s a you look at ut say mulvaney calmly. annie bragin niver care for me. for all that i do not want to leave anything behin me that bragin could take hould av to be angry wid her about whin an honust wurrd cud ha clear all up. there s nothing like opin speakin. orth ri ye scutt let me put me oi to that bottle for my throat s a dhry a whin i think i wud get a kiss from annie bragin. an that s fourteen year go. eyah. cork s own city an the blue sky above ut an the time that be the time that be. 
with the main guard. 
d jungere uhlanen sit round mit open mouth while breitmann tell dem stdories of fightin in the south. und gif dem moral lesson how before d battle pop take a little prayer to himmel und a goot long drink of schnapps. han breitmann s ballad. 
mary mother av mercy fwhat the divil possist u to take an kape this melancolious counthry. answer me that sorr. 
it be mulvaney who be speak. the time be one o clock of a stifle june night and the place be the main gate of fort amara most desolate and least desirable of all fortress in india. what i be do there at that hour be a question which only concern m grath the sergeant of the guard and the men on the gate. 
slape say mulvaney be a shuparfluous necessity. this gyard ll shtay lively till relieve. he himself be strip to the waist. learoyd on the next bedstead be drip from the skinful of water which ortheris clothe only in white trouser have just sluice over his shoulder. and a fourth private be mutter uneasily a he doze open mouth in the glare of the great guard lantern. the heat under the bricked archway be terrify. 
the worrst night that iv i remimber. eyah. be all hell loose this tide. say mulvaney. a puff of burn wind lash through the wicket gate like a wave of the sea and ortheris swear. 
be ye more heasy jock. he say to learoyd. put yer ead between your leg. it ll go orf in a minute. 
ah don t care. ah would not care but ma heart be plaayin tivvy tivvy on ma rib. let me die. oh leave me die. groan the huge yorkshireman who be feel the heat acutely be of fleshly build. 
the sleeper under the lantern rouse for a moment and raise himself on his elbow. die and be damn then. he say. i_ m damn and i can t die. 
who s that. i whisper for the voice be new to me. 
gentleman bear say mulvaney. corp ril wan year sargint nex. red hot on his c mission but dhrinks like a fish. he ll be go before the cowld weather s here. so. 
he slip his boot and with the naked toe just touch the trigger of his martini. ortheris misunderstand the movement and the next instant the irishman s rifle be dash aside while ortheris stand before him his eye blaze with reproof. 
you. say ortheris. my gawd you. if it be you wot would we do. 
kape quiet little man say mulvaney put him aside but very gently. ti not me nor will ut be me whoile dinah shadd s here. i be but showin something. 
learoyd bow on his bedstead groan and the gentleman ranker sigh in his sleep. ortheris take mulvaney s tender pouch and we three smoke gravely for a space while the dust devil dance on the glacis and scour the red hot plain. 
pop. say ortheris wipe his forehead. 
don t tantalise wid talkin av dhrink or i ll shtuff you into your own breech block an fire you off. grunt mulvaney. 
ortheris chuckle and from a niche in the veranda produce six bottle of gingerade. 
where do ye get ut ye machiavel. say mulvaney. ti no bazar pop. 
ow do hi know wot the orf cer drink. answer ortheris. arst the mess man. 
ye ll have a disthrict coort martial settin on ye yet me son say mulvaney but he open a bottle i will not report ye this time. fwhat s in the mess kid be mint for the belly a they say specially whin that mate be dhrink. here s luck. a bloody war or a no we ve get the sickly season. war thin. he wave the innocent pop to the four quarter of heaven. bloody war. north east south an west. jock ye quakin hayrick come an dhrink. 
but learoyd half mad with the fear of death presage in the swell vein in his neck be beg his maker to strike him dead and fight for more air between his prayer. a second time ortheris drench the quiver body with water and the giant revive. 
an ah divn t see thot a mon be i fettle for gooin on to live. an ah divn t see thot there be owt for t livin for. hear now lad. ah m tire tire. there s nobbut watter i ma bone. let me die. 
the hollow of the arch give back learoyd s break whisper in a bass boom. mulvaney look at me hopelessly but i remember how the madness of despair have once fall upon ortheris that weary weary afternoon on the bank of the khemi river and how it have be exorcise by the skilful magician mulvaney. 
talk terence. i say or we shall have learoyd sling loose and he ll be bad than ortheris be. talk. he ll answer to your voice. 
almost before ortheris have deftly throw all the rifle of the guard on mulvaney s bedstead the irishman s voice be uplift a that of one in the middle of a story and turn to me he say. 
in barricks or out of it a you say sorr an oirish rig mint be the divil an more. ti only fit for a young man wid eddicated fisteses. oh the crame av disruption be an oirish rig mint an rippin tearin ragin scattherers in the field av war. my first rig mint be oirish faynians an rebils to the heart av their marrow be they an so they fight for the widdy betther than most bein contrairy oirish. they be the black tyrone. you ve hear av thim sorr. 
hear of them. i know the black tyrone for the choice collection of unmitigated blackguard dog stealer robber of hen roost assaulter of innocent citizen and recklessly dare hero in the army list. half europe and half asia ha have cause to know the black tyrone good luck be with their tattered colour a glory ha ever be. 
they be hot pickils an ginger. i cut a man s head tu deep wid my belt in the day av my youth an afther some circumstance which i will oblitherate i come to the ould rig mint bearin the character av a man wid hand an foot. but a i be goin to tell you i fell acrost the black tyrone agin wan day whin we want thim powerful bad. orth ri me son fwhat be the name av that place where they sint wan comp ny av u an wan av the tyrone roun a hill an down again all for to tache the paythans something they d niver learn before. afther ghunzi twas. 
don t know what the bloomin paythans call it. we call it silver s theayter. you know that sure. 
silver s theatre so twas. a gut betune two hill a black a a bucket an a thin a a girl s waist. there be over many paythans for our convaynience in the gut an begad they call thimselves a reserve bein impident by nature. our scotchies an lashins av gurkeys be poundin into some paythan rig mint i think twas. scotchies an gurkeys be twin bekaze they re so onlike an they get dhrunk together whin god plazes. a i be sayin they sint wan comp ny av the ould an wan of the tyrone to double up the hill an clane out the paythan reserve. orf cer be scarce in thim day fwhat with dysintry an not takin care av thimselves an we be sint out wid only wan orf cer for the comp ny. but he be a man that have his foot beneath him an all his teeth in their sockuts. 
who be he. i ask. 
captain o neil old crook cruikna bulleen him that i tould ye that tale av whin he be in burma. [footnote. now first of the foeman of boh da thone be captain o neil of the black tyrone. the ballad of boh da thone. ] hah. he be a man. the tyrone tuk a little orf cer bhoy but divil a bite be he in command a i ll dimonstrate presintly. we an they come over the brow av the hill wan on each side av the gut an there be that ondacint reserve waitin down below like rat in a pit. 
howld on men sez crook who tuk a mother s care av u always. rowl some rock on thim by way av visitin kyards. we hadn t rowled more than twinty bowlder an the paythans be beginnin to swear tremenjus whin the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone shqueaks out acrost the valley. fwhat the devil an all be you doin shpoilin the fun for my men. do ye not see they ll stand. 
faith that s a rare pluckt wan. sez crook. niver mind the rock men. come along down an take tay wid thim. 
there s damn little sugar in ut. sez my rear rank man. but crook hear. 
have ye not all get spoon. he sez laughin an down we wint a fast a we cud. learoyd bein sick at the base he av coorse be not there. 
thot s a lie. say learoyd drag his bedstead near. ah get thot theer an you knaw it mulvaney. he throw up his arm and from the right armpit run diagonally through the fell of his chest a thin white line terminate near the fourth leave rib. 
my mind s goin say mulvaney the unabashed. ye be there. fwhat i be thinkin of. twas another man av coorse. will you ll remember thin jack how we an the tyrone meet wid a bang at the bottom an get jam past all movin among the paythans. 
ow. it be a tight ole. i be squeeze till i think i d bloomin well bust say ortheris rub his stomach meditatively. 
twas no place for a little man but wan little man mulvaney put his hand on ortheris s shoulder save the life av me. there we shtuck for divil a bite do the paythans flinch an divil a bite dare we. our business bein to clear em out. an the most exthryordinar thing av all be that we an they just rush into each other s arrums an there be no fire for a long time. nothin but knife an bay nit when we cud get our hand free. an that be not often. we be breast on to thim an the tyrone be yelpin behind av u in a way i didn t see the lean av at first. but i know late an so do the paythans. 
knee to knee. sing out crook wid a laugh whin the rush av our comin into the gut shtopped an he be huggin a hairy great paythan neither bein able to do anything to the other tho both be wishful. 
breast to breast. he sez a the tyrone be pushin u forward close an close. 
an hand over back. sez a sargint that be behin. i saw a sword lick out past crook s ear an the paythan be tuk in the apple av his throat like a pig at dromeen fair. 
thank ye brother inner guard sez crook cool a a cucumber widout salt. i want that room. an he wint forward by the thickness av a man s body havin turn the paythan undher him. the man bite the heel off crook s boot in his death bite. 
push men. sez crook. push ye paper back beggar. he sez. be i to pull ye through. so we push an we kick an we swing an we swear an the grass bein slippery our heel wouldn t bite an god help the front rank man that wint down that day. 
ave you ever bin in the pit hentrance o the vic on a thick night. interrupt ortheris. it be bad nor that for they be goin one way an we wouldn t ave it. leastways i adn t much to say. 
faith me son ye say ut thin. i kep the little man betune my knee a long a i cud but he be pokin roun wid his bay nit blindin an stiffin feroshus. the devil of a man be orth ri in a ruction aren t ye. say mulvaney. 
don t make game. say the cockney. i know i wasn t no good then but i guv em compot from the lef flank when we open out. no. he say bring down his hand with a thump on the bedstead a bay nit ain t no good to a little man might a well ave a bloomin fishin rod. i eat a clawin maulin mess but gimme a breech that s wear out a bite an hamminition one year in store to let the powder kiss the bullet an put me somewhere where i ain t tread on by ulkin swine like you an s elp me gawd i could bowl you over five time out seven at height undred. would yer try you lumberin hirishman. 
no ye wasp. i ve see ye do ut. i say there s nothin good than the bay nit wid a long reach a double twist av ye can an a slow recover. 
dom the bay nit say learoyd who have be listen intently. look a here. he pick up a rifle an inch below the foresight with an underhand action and use it exactly a a man would use a dagger. 
sitha say he softly thot s good than owt for a mon can bash t faace wi thot an if he divn t he can breeak t forearm o t gaard. ti not i t book though. gie me t butt. 
each doe ut his own way like makin love say mulvaney quietly. the butt or the bay nit or the bullet accordin to the natur av the man. well a i be sayin we shtuck there breathin in each other s face and swearin powerful. orth ri cursin the mother that bore him bekaze he be not three inch tall. 
prisintly he sez. duck ye lump an i can get at a man over your shouldher. 
you ll blow me head off i sez throwin my arm clear. go through under my arm pit ye bloodthirsty little scutt sez i but don t shtick me or i ll wring your ear round. 
fwhat be ut ye give the paythan man forninst me him that cut at me whin i cudn t move hand or foot. hot or cowld be ut. 
cold say ortheris up an under the rib jint. e come down flat. best for you e do. 
thrue my son. this jam thing that i m talkin about last for five minute good an thin we get our arm clear an wint in. i misremimber exactly fwhat i do but i didn t want dinah to be a widdy at the depot. thin after some promishkuous hackin we shtuck again an the tyrone behin be callin u dog an coward an all manner av name. we barrin their way. 
fwhat ail the tyrone. think i. they ve the makin s av a most convanient fight here. 
a man behind me sez beseechful an in a whisper. let me get at thim. for the love av mary give me room beside ye ye tall man. 
an who be you that s so anxious to be kilt. sez i widout turnin my head for the long knife be dancin in front like the sun on donegal bay whin ut s rough. 
we ve see our dead he sez squeezin into me. our dead that be men two day go. an me that be his cousin by blood could not bring tim coulan off. let me get on he sez let me get to thim or i ll run ye through the back. 
my troth think i if the tyrone have see their dead god help the paythans this day. an thin i know why the oirish be ragin behind u a they be. 
i give room to the man an he run forward wid the haymaker s lift on his bay nit an swing a paythan clear off his foot by the belly band av the brute an the iron bruk at the lockin ring. 
tim coulan ll slape easy to night sez he wid a grin. an the next minut his head be in two half and he wint down grinnin by section. 
the tyrone be pushin an pushin in an our men be swearin at thim an crook be workin away in front av u all his sword arm swingin like a pump handle an his revolver spittin like a cat. but the strange thing av ut be the quiet that lay upon. twas like a fight in a drame except for thim that be dead. 
whin i give room to the oirishman i be expinded an forlorn in my inside. ti a way i have savin your presince sorr in action. let me out bhoys sez i backin in among thim. i m go to be onwell. faith they give me room at the wurrud though they would not ha givin room for all hell wid the chill off. when i get clear i be savin your presince sorr outragis sick bekaze i have dhrunk heavy that day. 
well an far out av harm be a sargint av the tyrone sittin on the little orf cer bhoy who have stop crook from rowlin the rock. oh he be a beautiful bhoy an the long black curse be slidin out av his innocint mouth like mornin jew from a rise. 
fwhat have you get there. sez i to the sargint. 
wan av her majesty s bantam wid his spur up sez he. he s goin to coort martial me. 
let me go. sez the little orf cer bhoy. let me go and command my men. manin thereby the black tyrone which be beyond any command ay even av they have make the divil a field orf cer. 
his father howlds my mother s cow fee in clonmel sez the man that be sittin on him. will i go back to his mother an tell her that i ve let him throw himself away. lie still ye little pinch av dynamite an coort martial me aftherwards. 
good sez i. ti the like av him make the like av the commandher in chief but we must presarve thim. fwhat d you want to do sorr. sez i very politeful. 
kill the beggar kill the beggar. he shqueaks. his big blue eye brimmin wid tear. 
an how ll ye do that. sez i. you ve shquibbed off your revolver like a child wid a cracker. you can make no play wid that fine large sword av yours. an your hand s shakin like an asp on a leaf. lie still an grow sez i. 
get back to your comp ny sez he. you re insolint. 
all in good time sez i but i ll have a dhrink first. 
just thin crook come up blue an white all over where he wasn t red. 
wather. sez he. i m dead wid drouth. oh but it s a gran day. 
he dhrank half a skinful and the rest he tilt into his chest an it fair hiss on the hairy hide av him. he see the little orf cer bhoy undher the sargint. 
fwhat s yonder. sez he. 
mutiny sorr sez the sargint an the orf cer bhoy begin pleadin pitiful to crook to be let go. but divil a bite wud crook budge. 
kape him there he sez ti no child s work this day. by the same token sez he i ll confishcate that iligant nickel plat scent sprinkler av yours for my own ha be vomitin dishgraceful. 
the fork av his hand be black wid the backspit av the machine. so he tuk the orf cer bhoy s revolver. ye may look sorr by my faith there s a dale more do in the field than iv get into field ordhers. 
come on mulvaney sez crook. be this a coort martial. the two av u wint back together into the mess an the paythans be still standin up. they be not too impart nint though for the tyrone be callin wan to another to remimber tim coulan. 
crook stop outside av the strife an look anxious his eye rowlin roun. 
fwhat be ut sorr. sez i. can i get ye anything. 
where s a bugler. sez he. 
i wint into the crowd our men be dhrawin breath behin the tyrone who be fightin like sowls in tormint an prisintly i come acrost little frehan our bugler bhoy pokin roun among the best wid a rifle an bay nit. 
be amusin yoursilf fwhat you re pay for ye limb. sez i catchin him by the scruff. come out av that an attind to your duty i sez. but the bhoy be not please. 
i ve get wan sez he grinnin big a you mulvaney an fair half a ugly. let me go get another. 
i be dishplease dat the personability av that remark so i tuck him under my arm an carry him to crook who be watchin how the fight wint. crook cuff him till the bhoy cry an thin sez nothin for a whoile. 
the paythans begin to flicker onaisy an our men roar. opin ordher. double. sez crook. blow child blow for the honour of the british arrmy. 
that bhoy blow like a typhoon an the tyrone an we opine out a the paythans break an i saw that fwhat have go before wud be kissin an huggin to fwhat be to come. we d dhruv thim into a broad part av the gut whin they give an thin we opine out an fair dance down the valley dhrivin thim before u. oh twas lovely an stiddy too. there be the sargints on the flank av what be leave av u kapin touch an the fire be runnin from flank to flank an the paythans be dhroppin. we opine out wid the widenin av the valley an whin the valley narrow we close again like the shtick on a lady s fan an at the far ind av the gut where they thried to stand we fair blow them off their foot for we have expinded very little ammunition by reason av the knife work. 
hi use thirty round goin down that valley say ortheris an it be gentleman s work. might a do it in a white andkerchief an pink silk stockin s that part. hi be on in that piece. 
you could ha hear the tyrone yellin a mile away say mulvaney an twas all their sargints cud do to get thim off. they be mad mad mad. crook sit down in the quiet that fell whin we have go down the valley an cover his face wid his hand. prisintly we all come back again accordin to our nature and disposishins for they mark you show through the hide av a man in that hour. 
bhoys. bhoys. sez crook to himself. i misdoubt we could ha engage at long range an save betther men than me. he look at our dead an say no more. 
captain dear sez a man av the tyrone comin up wid his mouth big than iv his mother kiss ut spittin blood like a whale. captain dear sez he if wan or two in the shtalls have be discommode the gallery enjoy the performinces av a roshus. 
thin i know that man for the dublin dock rat he be wan av the bhoys that make the lessee av silver s theatre gray before his time wid tearin out the bowils av the bench an t rowin thim into the pit. so i pass the wurrud that i know when i be in the tyrone an we lay in dublin. i don t know who twas i whisper an i don t care but anyways i ll knock the face av you tim kelly. 
eyah. sez the man be you there too. we ll call ut silver s theatre. half the tyrone knowin the ould place tuk it up. so we call ut silver s theatre. 
the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone be thremblin an cryin. he have no heart for the coort martial that he talk so big upon. ye ll do well late sez crook very quiet for not bein allow to kill yourself for amusemint. 
i m a dishgraced man. sez the little orf cer bhoy. 
put me undher arrest sorr if you will but by my sowl i d do ut again sooner than face your mother wid you dead sez the sargint that have sit on his head standin to attention an salutin. but the young wan only cry a tho his little heart be breakin. 
thin another man av the tyrone come up wid the fog av fightin on him. 
the what mulvaney. 
fog av fightin. you know sorr that like makin love ut take each man diff rint. now i can t help bein powerful sick whin i m in action. orth ri here niver stop swearin from ind to ind an the only time that learoyd opins his mouth to sing be whin he be messin wid other people s head. for he s a dhirty fighter be jock. recruities sometime cry an sometime they don t know fwhat they do an sometime they be all for cuttin throat an such like dirtiness. but some men get heavy dead dhrunk on the fightin. this man be. he be staggerin an his eye be half shut an we cud hear him dhraw breath twinty yard away. he see the little orf cer bhoy an come up talkin thick an drowsy to himsilf. blood the young whelp. he sez. blood the young whelp. an wid that he throw up his arm shpun roun an drop at our foot dead a a paythan an there be niver sign or scratch on him. they say twas his heart be rotten but oh twas a quare thing to see. 
thin we wint to bury our dead for we wud not lave thim to the paythans an in movin among the haythen we nearly lose that little orf cer bhoy. he be for givin wan divil wather and layin him aisy against a rock. be careful sorr sez i. a wound paythan s bad than a live wan. my troth before the word be out of my mouth the man on the grind fire at the orf cer bhoy lanin over him an i saw the helmit fly. i drop the butt on the face av the man an tuk his pistol. the little orf cer bhoy turn very white for the hair av half his head be sing away. 
i tould you so sorr. sez i. an afther that whin he want to help a paythan i stud wid the muzzle contagious to the ear. they dare not do anythin but curse. the tyrone be growlin like dog over a bone that have be take away too soon for they have see their dead an they want to kill ivry sowl on the grind. crook tould thim that he d blow the hide off any man that misconduct himself. but see that ut be the first time the tyrone have iv see their dead i do not wondher they be on the sharp. ti a shameful sight. whin i first saw ut i wud niver ha give quarter to any man north of the khaibar no nor woman either for the woman use to come out afther dhark auggrh. 
well evenshually we bury our dead an tuk away our wound an come over the brow av the hill to see the scotchies an the gurkeys take tay with the paythans in bucketsfuls. we be a gang av dissolute ruffian for the blood have cake the dust an the sweat have cut the cake an our bay nit be hangin like butcher steel betune ur leg an most av u be mark one way or another. 
a staff orf cer man clean a a new rifle ride up an sez. what damn scarecrow be you. 
a comp ny av her majesty s black tyrone an wan av the ould rig mint sez crook very quiet givin our visitor the flure a twas. 
oh. sez the staff orf cer. do you dislodge that reserve. 
no. sez crook an the tyrone laugh. 
thin fwhat the divil have ye do. 
disthroyed ut sez crook an he take u on but not before toomey that be in the tyrone sez aloud his voice somewhere in his stummick. fwhat in the name av misfortune doe this parrit widout a tail mane by shtoppin the road av his betthers. 
the staff orf cer wint blue an toomey make him pink by changin to the voice av a minowderin woman an sayin. come an kiss me major dear for me husband s at the war an i m all alone at the depot. 
the staff orf cer wint away an i cud see crook s shoulthers shakin. 
his corp ril check toomey. lave me alone sez toomey widout a wink. i be his batman before he be marry an he know fwhat i mane av you don t. there s nothin like livin in the hoight av society. d you remimber that orth ri. 
hi do. toomey e die in orspital next week it be cause i buy arf his kit. an i remember after that. 
guarrd turn out. 
the relief have come. it be four o clock. i ll catch a kyart for you sorr say mulvaney dive hastily into his accoutrement. come up to the top av the fort an we ll pershue our invistigations into m grath s shtable. the relieve guard stroll round the main bastion on it way to the swim bath and learoyd grow almost talkative. ortheris look into the fort ditch and across the plain. ho. it s weary waitin for ma ary. he hum. but i d like to kill some more bloomin paythans before my time s up. war. bloody war. north east south and west. 
amen say learoyd slowly. 
fwhat s here. say mulvaney check at a blur of white by the foot of the old sentry box. he stoop and touch it. it s norah norah m taggart. why nonie darlin fwhat be ye doin out av your mother s bed at this time. 
the two year old child of sergeant m taggart must have wander for a breath of cool air to the very verge of the parapet of the fort ditch. her tiny night shift be gather into a wisp round her neck and she moan in her sleep. see there. say mulvaney. poor lamb. look at the heat rash on the innocint skin av her. ti hard crool hard even for u. fwhat must it be for these. wake up nonie your mother will be woild about you. begad the child might ha fall into the ditch. 
he pick her up in the grow light and set her on his shoulder and her fair curl touch the grizzle stubble of his temple. ortheris and learoyd follow snap their finger while norah smile at them a sleepy smile. then carol mulvaney clear a a lark dance the baby on his arm. 
if any young man should marry you say nothin about the joke. that iv ye slep in a sinthry box wrap up in a soldier s cloak. 
though on my sowl nonie he say gravely there be not much cloak about you. niver mind you win t dhress like this ten year to come. kiss your friend an run along to your mother. 
nonie set down close to the marry quarter nod with the quiet obedience of the soldier s child but ere she patter off over the flag path hold up her lip to be kiss by the three musketeer. ortheris wipe his mouth with the back of his hand and swear sentimentally. learoyd turn pink. and the two walk away together. the yorkshireman lift up his voice and give in thunder the chorus of the sentry box_ while ortheris pip at his side. 
bin to a bloomin sing song you two. say the artilleryman who be take his cartridge down to the morning gun. you re over merry for these dash day. 
i bid ye take care o the brat say he for it come of a noble race. 
learoyd bellow. the voice die out in the swim bath. 
oh terence. i say drop into mulvaney s speech when we be alone it s you that have the tongue. 
he look at me wearily. his eye be sink in his head and his face be draw and white. eyah. say he. i ve blandandhered thim through the night somehow but can thim that help others help thimselves. answer me that sorr. 
and over the bastion of fort amara break the pitiless day. 
in the matter of a private. 
hurrah. hurrah. a soldier s life for me. shout boy shout. for it make you jolly and free. the ramrod corp. 
people who have see say that one of the quaint spectacle of human frailty be an outbreak of hysteric in a girl school. it start without warn generally on a hot afternoon among the elder pupil. a girl giggle till the giggle get beyond control. then she throw up her head and cry honk honk honk like a wild goose and tear mix with the laughter. if the mistress be wise she will rap out something severe at this point to check matter. if she be tender hearted and send for a drink of water the chance be largely in favour of another girl laugh at the afflict one and herself collapse. thus the trouble spread and may end in half of what answer to the low sixth of a boy school rock and whoop together. give a week of warm weather two stately promenade per diem a heavy mutton and rice meal in the middle of the day a certain amount of nag from the teacher and a few other thing some amaze effect develop. at least this be what folk say who have have experience. 
now the mother superior of a convent and the colonel of a british infantry regiment would be justly shock at any comparison be make between their respective charge. but it be a fact that under certain circumstance thomas in bulk can be work up into ditthering ripple hysteria. he doe not weep but he show his trouble unmistakably and the consequence get into the newspaper and all the good people who hardly know a martini from a snide say. take away the brute s ammunition. 
thomas isn t a brute and his business which be to look after the virtuous people demand that he shall have his ammunition to his hand. he doesn t wear silk stocking and he really ought to be supply with a new adjective to help him to express his opinion. but for all that he be a great man. if you call him the heroic defender of the national honour one day and a brutal and licentious soldiery the next you naturally bewilder him and he look upon you with suspicion. there be nobody to speak for thomas except people who have theory to work off on him. and nobody understand thomas except thomas and he doe not always know what be the matter with himself. 
that be the prologue. this be the story. 
corporal slane be engage to be marry to miss jhansi m kenna whose history be well know in the regiment and elsewhere. he have his colonel s permission and be popular with the men every arrangement have be make to give the wed what private ortheris call eeklar. it fell in the heart of the hot weather and after the wed slane be go up to the hill with the bride. none the le slane s grievance be that the affair would be only a hire carriage wed and he felt that the eeklar of that be meagre. miss m kenna do not care so much. the sergeant s wife be help her to make her wed dress and she be very busy. slane be just then the only moderately content man in barrack. all the rest be more or le miserable. 
and they have so much to make them happy too. all their work be over at eight in the morning and for the rest of the day they could lie on their back and smoke canteen plug and swear at the punkah cooly. they enjoy a fine full flesh meal in the middle of the day and then throw themselves down on their cot and sweat and sleep till it be cool enough to go out with their towny whose vocabulary contain le than six hundred word and the adjective and whose view on every conceivable question they have hear many time before. 
there be the canteen of course and there be the temperance room with the second hand paper in it. but a man of any profession cannot read for eight hour a day in a temperature of degree or degree in the shade run up sometimes to degree at midnight. very few men even though they get a pannikin of flat stale muddy beer and hide it under their cot can continue drink for six hour a day. one man try but he die and nearly the whole regiment go to his funeral because it give them something to do. it be too early for the excitement of fever or cholera. the men could only wait and wait and wait and watch the shadow of the barrack creep across the blind white dust. that be a gay life. 
they lounge about cantonment it be too hot for any sort of game and almost too hot for vice and fuddle themselves in the even and fill themselves to distension with the healthy nitrogenous food provide for them and the more they stoke the le exercise they take and more explosive they grow. then temper begin to wear away and men fell a brood over insult real or imaginary for they have nothing else to think of. the tone of the repartee change and instead of say light heartedly. i ll knock your silly face in. men grow laboriously polite and hint that the cantonment be not big enough for themselves and their enemy and that there would be more space for one of the two in another place. 
it may have be the devil who arrange the thing but the fact of the case be that losson have for a long time be worry simmons in an aimless way. it give him occupation. the two have their cot side by side and would sometimes spend a long afternoon swear at each other. but simmons be afraid of losson and dare not challenge him to a fight. he think over the word in the hot still night and half the hate he felt towards losson he vent on the wretched punkah coolie. 
losson buy a parrot in the bazar and put it into a little cage and lower the cage into the cool darkness of a well and sit on the well curb shout bad language down to the parrot. he teach it to say. simmons ye so oor_ which mean swine and several other thing entirely unfit for publication. he be a big gross man and he shake like a jelly when the parrot have the sentence correctly. simmons however shake with rage for all the room be laugh at him the parrot be such a disreputable puff of green feather and it look so human when it chatter. losson use to sit swing his fat leg on the side of the cot and ask the parrot what it think of simmons. the parrot would answer. simmons ye so oor. good boy losson use to say scratch the parrot s head. ye ear that sim. and simmons use to turn over on his stomach and make answer. i ear. take eed you don t ear something one of these day. 
in the restless night after he have be asleep all day fit of blind rage come upon simmons and hold him till he tremble all over while he think in how many different way he would slay losson. sometimes he would picture himself trample the life out of the man with heavy ammunition boot and at others smash in his face with the butt and at others jump on his shoulder and drag the head back till the neckbone crack. then his mouth would feel hot and fevered and he would reach out for another sup of the beer in the pannikin. 
but the fancy that come to him most frequently and stay with him long be one connect with the great roll of fat under lesson s right ear. he notice it first on a moonlight night and thereafter it be always before his eye. it be a fascinate roll of fat. a man could get his hand upon it and tear away one side of the neck. or he could place the muzzle of a rifle on it and blow away all the head in a flash. losson have no right to be sleek and content and well to do when he simmons be the butt of the room. some day perhaps he would show those who laugh at the simmons ye so oor joke that he be a good a the rest and hold a man s life in the crook of his forefinger. when losson snore simmons hat him more bitterly than ever. why should losson be able to sleep when simmons have to stay awake hour after hour toss and turn on the tape with the dull liver pain gnaw into his right side and his head throb and ache after canteen. he think over this for many many night and the world become unprofitable to him. he even blunt his naturally fine appetite with beer and tobacco. and all the while the parrot talk at and make a mock of him. 
the heat continue and the temper wear away more quickly than before. a sergeant s wife die of heat apoplexy in the night and the rumour run abroad that it be cholera. men rejoice openly hop that it would spread and send them into camp. but that be a false alarm. 
it be late on a tuesday even and the men be wait in the deep double veranda for last post when simmons go to the box at the foot of his bed take out his pipe and slam the lid down with a bang that echo through the desert barrack like the crack of a rifle. ordinarily speak the men would have take no notice. but their nerve be fret to fiddle string. they jump up and three or four clatter into the barrack room only to find simmons kneel by his box. 
ow. it s you be it. they say and laugh foolishly. we think twas. 
simmons rise slowly. if the accident have so shake his fellow what would not the reality do. 
you think it be do you. and what make you think. he say lash himself into madness a he go on. to hell with your think ye dirty spy. 
simmons ye so oor_ chuckle the parrot in the veranda sleepily recognise a well know voice. now that be absolutely all. 
the tension snap. simmons fell back on the arm rack deliberately the men be at the far end of the room and take out his rifle and packet of ammunition. don t go play the goat sim. say losson. put it down but there be a quaver in his voice. another man stoop slip his boot and hurl it at simmons s head. the prompt answer be a shoot which fire at random find it billet in losson s throat. losson fell forward without a word and the others scatter. 
you think it be. yell simmons. you re drivin me to it. i tell you you re drivin me to it. get up losson an don t lie shammin there you an your blast parrit that druv me to it. 
but there be an unaffected reality about losson s pose that show simmons what he have do. the men be still clamour in the veranda. simmons appropriate two more packet of ammunition and run into the moonlight mutter. i ll make a night of it. thirty roun s an the last for myself. take you that you dog. 
he drop on one knee and fire into the brown of the men on the veranda but the bullet fly high and land in the brickwork with a vicious phwit that make some of the young one turn pale. it be a musketry theorist observe one thing to fire and another to be fire at. 
then the instinct of the chase flare up. the news spread from barrack to barrack and the men double out intent on the capture of simmons the wild beast who be head for the cavalry parade grind stop now and again to send back a shoot and a curse in the direction of his pursuer. 
i ll learn you to spy on me. he shout. i ll learn you to give me dorg s name. come on the ole lot o you. colonel john anthony deever c. b. he turn towards the infantry mess and shake his rifle you think yourself the devil of a man but i tell you that if you put your ugly old carcass outside o that door i ll make you the poor lookin man in the army. come out colonel john anthony deever c. b. come out and see me practiss on the rainge. i m the crack shoot of the ole bloomin battalion. in proof of which statement simmons fire at the light window of the mess house. 
private simmons e comp ny on the cavalry p rade grind sir with thirty round say a sergeant breathlessly to the colonel. shootin right and lef sir. shoot private losson. what s to be do sir. 
colonel john anthony deever c. b. sallied out only to be salute by a spurt of dust at his foot. 
pull up. say the second in command. i don t want my step in that way colonel. he s a dangerous a a mad dog. 
shoot him like one then say the colonel bitterly if he win t take his chance. my regiment too. if it have be the towhead i could have understand. 
private simmons have occupy a strong position near a well on the edge of the parade grind and be defy the regiment to come on. the regiment be not anxious to comply for there be small honour in be shoot by a fellow private. only corporal slane rifle in hand throw himself down on the grind and worm his way towards the well. 
don t shoot say he to the men round him. like a not you ll it me. i ll catch the beggar livin. 
simmons cease shout for a while and the noise of trap wheel could be hear across the plain. major oldyne command the horse battery be come back from a dinner in the civil line. be drive after his usual custom that be to say a fast a the horse could go. 
a orf cer. a bloom spangle orf cer. shriek simmons. i ll make a scarecrow of that orf cer. the trap stop. 
what s this. demand the major of gunner. you there drop your rifle. 
why it s jerry blaze. i ain t get no quarrel with you jerry blaze. pas frien an all s well. 
but jerry blaze have not the faint intention of pass a dangerous murderer. he be a his adore battery swear long and fervently without knowledge of fear and they be surely the best judge for jerry blaze it be notorious have do his possible to kill a man each time the battery go out. 
he walk towards simmons with the intention of rush him and knock him down. 
don t make me do it sir say simmons. i ain t get nothing agin you. ah. you would. the major break into a run take that then. 
the major drop with a bullet through his shoulder and simmons stand over him. he have lose the satisfaction of kill losson in the desire way. but here be a helpless body to his hand. should he slip in another cartridge and blow off the head or with the butt smash in the white face. he stop to consider and a cry go up from the far side of the parade grind. he s kill jerry blaze. but in the shelter of the well pillar simmons be safe except when he step out to fire. i ll blow yer andsome ead off jerry blaze say simmons reflectively. six an three be nine an one be ten an that leaf me another nineteen an one for myself. he tug at the string of the second packet of ammunition. corporal slane crawl out of the shadow of a bank into the moonlight. 
i see you. say simmons. come a bite furder on an i ll do for you. 
i m comin say corporal slane briefly. you ve do a bad day s work sim. come out ere an come back with me. 
come to laugh simmons send a cartridge home with his thumb. not before i ve settle you an jerry blaze. 
the corporal be lie at full length in the dust of the parade grind a rifle under him. some of the le cautious men in the distance shout. shoot im. shoot im slane. 
you move and or foot slane say simmons an i ll kick jerry blaze ead in and shoot you after. 
i ain t movin say the corporal raise his head. you daren t it a man on be leg. let go o jerry blaze an come out o that with your fistes. come an it me. you daren t you bloomin dog shooter. 
i dare. 
you lie you man sticker. you sneakin sheeny butch you lie. see there. slane kick the rifle away and stand up in the peril of his life. come on now. 
the temptation be more than simmons could resist for the corporal in his white clothe offer a perfect mark. 
don t misname me shout simmons fire a he speak. the shoot miss and the shooter blind with rage throw his rifle down and rush at slane from the protection of the well. within strike distance he kick savagely at slane s stomach but the weedy corporal know something of simmons s weakness and know too the deadly guard for that kick. bow forward and draw up his right leg till the heel of the right foot be set some three inch above the inside of the leave knee cap he meet the blow stand on one leg exactly a gond stand when they meditate and ready for the fall that would follow. there be an oath the corporal fell over to his own leave a shinbone meet shinbone and the private collapse his right leg break an inch above the ankle. 
pity you don t know that guard sim say slane spit out the dust a he rise. then raise his voice come an take him orf. i ve bruk be leg. this be not strictly true for the private have accomplish his own downfall since it be the special merit of that leg guard that the hard the kick the great the kicker s discomfiture. 
slane walk to jerry blaze and hang over him with ostentatious anxiety while simmons weep with pain be carry away. ope you ain t urt badly sir say slane. the major have faint and there be an ugly rag hole through the top of his arm. slane kneel down and murmur. s elp me i believe e s dead. well if that ain t my bloom luck all over. 
but the major be destine to lead his battery afield for many a long day with unshaken nerve. he be remove and nurse and pet into convalescence while the battery discuss the wisdom of capture simmons and blow him from a gun. they idolise their major and his reappearance on parade bring about a scene nowhere provide for in the army regulation. 
great too be the glory that fell to slane s share. the gunner would have make him drink thrice a day for at least a fortnight. even the colonel of his own regiment compliment him upon his coolness and the local paper call him a hero. these thing do not puff him up. when the major offer him money and thank the virtuous corporal take the one and put aside the other. but he have a request to make and preface it with many a beg y pardon sir. could the major see his way to let the slane m kenna wed be adorn by the presence of four battery horse to pull a hire barouche. the major could and so could the battery. excessively so. it be a gorgeous wed. 
* * * * *. 
wot do i do it for. say corporal slane. for the or o course. jhansi ain t a beauty to look at but i wasn t goin to ave a hire turn out. jerry blaze. if i adn t a want something sim might ha blow jerry blaze bloom ead into hirish stew for aught i d a care. 
and they hang private simmons hang him a high a haman in hollow square of the regiment. and the colonel say it be drink. and the chaplain be sure it be the devil. and simmons fancy it be both but he didn t know and only hop his fate would be a warn to his companion. and half a dozen intelligent publicist write six beautiful lead article on the prevalence of crime in the army. 
but not a soul think of compare the bloody mind simmons to the squawk gap schoolgirl with which this story open. 
black jack. 
to the wake av tim o hara come company all st. patrick s alley be there to see. robert buchanan. 
a the three musketeer share their silver tobacco and liquor together a they protect each other in barrack or camp and a they rejoice together over the joy of one so do they divide their sorrow. when ortheris s irrepressible tongue ha bring him into cell for a season or learoyd ha run amok through his kit and accoutrement or mulvaney ha indulge in strong water and under their influence reprove his command officer you can see the trouble in the face of the untouched two. and the rest of the regiment know that comment or jest be unsafe. generally the three avoid orderly room and the corner shop that follow leave both to the young blood who have not sow their wild oat. but there be occasion. 
for instance ortheris be sit on the drawbridge of the main gate of fort amara with his hand in his pocket and his pipe bowl down in his mouth. learoyd be lie at full length on the turf of the glacis kick his heel in the air and i come round the corner and ask for mulvaney. 
ortheris spat into the ditch and shake his head. no good seein im now say ortheris. e s a bloomin camel. listen. 
i hear on the flag of the veranda opposite to the cell which be close to the guard room a measure step that i could have identify in the tramp of an army. there be twenty pace crescendo a pause and then twenty diminuendo. 
that s im say ortheris. my gawd that s im. all for a bloomin button you could see your face in an a bite o lip that a bloomin harkangel would a guv back. 
mulvaney be do pack drill be compel that be to say to walk up and down for certain hour in full march order with rifle bayonet ammunition knapsack and overcoat. and his offence be be dirty on parade. i nearly fell into the fort ditch with astonishment and wrath for mulvaney be the smart man that ever mount guard and would a soon think of turn out uncleanly a of dispense with his trouser. 
who be the sergeant that check him. i ask. 
mullins o course say ortheris. there ain t no other man would whip im on the peg so. but mullins ain t a man. e s a dirty little pigscraper that s wot e be. 
what do mulvaney say. he s not the make of man to take that quietly. 
say. bin good for im if e d shut be mouth. lord ow we laugh. sargint e sez ye say i m dirty. well sez e when your wife let you blow your own nose for yourself perhaps you ll know wot dirt be. you re himperfectly eddicated sargint sez e an then we fell in. but after p rade e be up an mullins be swearin imself black in the face at ord ly room that mulvaney ad call im a swine an lord know wot all. you know mullins. e ll ave be ead break in one o these day. e s too big a bloomin liar for ord nary consumption. three hour can an kit sez the colonel. not for bein dirty on p rade but for avin say somethin to mullins tho i do not believe sez e you say wot e say you say. an mulvaney fell away sayin nothin. you know e never speak to the colonel for fear o gettin imself fresh cop. 
mullins a very young and very much marry sergeant whose manner be partly the result of innate depravity and partly of imperfectly digest board school come over the bridge and most rudely ask ortheris what he be do. 
me. say ortheris. ow. i m wait for my c mission. seed it comin along yit. 
mullins turn purple and pass on. there be the sound of a gentle chuckle from the glacis where learoyd lay. 
e expect to get be c mission some day explain ortheris. gawd elp the mess that ave to put their ands into the same kiddy a im. wot time d you make it sir. fower. mulvaney ll be out in arf an hour. you don t want to buy a dorg sir do you. a pup you can trust arf rampore by the colonel s grey ound. 
ortheris i answer sternly for i know what be in his mind do you mean to say that. 
i didn t mean to arx money o you any ow say ortheris. i d a sell you the dorg good an cheap but but i know mulvaney ll want somethin after we ve walk im orf an i ain t get nothin nor e asn t neither. i d sooner sell you the dorg sir. s trewth i would. 
a shadow fell on the drawbridge and ortheris begin to rise into the air lift by a huge hand upon his collar. 
onything but t braass say learoyd quietly a he hold the londoner over the ditch. onything but t braass orth ri ma son. ah ve get one rupee eight anna of ma own. he show two coin and replace ortheris on the drawbridge rail. 
very good i say. where be you go to. 
goin to walk im orf wen e come out two mile or three or fower say ortheris. 
the footstep within cease. i hear the dull thud of a knapsack fall on a bedstead follow by the rattle of arm. ten minute late mulvaney faultlessly dress his lip tight and his face a black a a thunderstorm stalk into the sunshine on the drawbridge. learoyd and ortheris spring from my side and close in upon him both lean towards a horse lean upon the pole. in an instant they have disappear down the sink road to the cantonment and i be leave alone. mulvaney have not see fit to recognise me. so i know that his trouble must be heavy upon him. 
i climb one of the bastion and watch the figure of the three musketeer grow small and small across the plain. they be walk a fast a they could put foot to the grind and their head be bow. they fetch a great compass round the parade grind skirt the cavalry line and vanish in the belt of tree that fringe the low land by the river. 
i follow slowly and sight them dusty sweat but still keep up their long swing tramp on the river bank. they crash through the forest reserve head towards the bridge of boat and presently establish themselves on the bow of one of the pontoon. i ride cautiously till i saw three puff of white smoke rise and die out in the clear even air and know that peace have come again. at the bridge head they wave me forward with gesture of welcome. 
tie up your orse shout ortheris an come on sir. we re all goin home in this ere bloomin boat. 
from the bridge head to the forest officer s bungalow be but a step. the mess man be there and would see that a man hold my horse. do the sahib require aught else a peg or beer. ritchie sahib have leave half a dozen bottle of the latter but since the sahib be a friend of ritchie sahib and he the mess man be a poor man. 
i give my order quietly and return to the bridge. mulvaney have take off his boot and be dabble his toe in the water. learoyd be lie on his back on the pontoon. and ortheris be pretend to row with a big bamboo. 
i m an ould fool say mulvaney reflectively dhrag gin you two out here bekaze i be undher the black dog sulkin like a child. me that be soldierin when mullins an be damn to him be shquealin on a counterpin for five shillin a week an that not pay. bhoys i ve take you five mile out av natural pevarsity. phew. 
wot s the odds so long a you re appy. say ortheris apply himself afresh to the bamboo. a well ere a anywhere else. 
learoyd hold up a rupee and an eight anna bite and shake his head sorrowfully. five mile from t canteen all along o mulvaney s blaasted pride. 
i know ut say mulvaney penitently. why will ye come wid me. an yet i wud be mortial sorry if ye do not any time though i be ould enough to know betther. but i will do penance. i will take a dhrink av wather. 
ortheris squeak shrilly. the butler of the forest bungalow be stand near the railing with a basket uncertain how to clamber down to the pontoon. might a know d you d a get liquor out o bloomin desert sir say ortheris gracefully to me. then to the mess man. easy with them there bottle. they re worth their weight in gold. jock ye long arm beggar get out o that an hike em down. 
learoyd have the basket on the pontoon in an instant and the three musketeer gather round it with dry lip. they drink my health in due and ancient form and thereafter tobacco taste sweet than ever. they absorb all the beer and dispose themselves in picturesque attitude to admire the set sun no man speak for a while. 
mulvaney s head drop upon his chest and we think that he be asleep. 
what on earth do you come so far for. i whisper to ortheris. 
to walk im orf o course. when e s be check we allus walk im orf. e ain t fit to be speak to those time nor e ain t fit to leave alone neither. so we take im till e be. 
mulvaney raise his head and star straight into the sunset. i have my rifle say he dreamily an i have my bay nit an mullins come round the corner an he look in my face an grin dishpiteful. _you can t blow your own nose sez he. now i cannot tell fwhat mullins s expayrience may ha be but mother av god he be near to his death that minut than i have iv be to mine and that s le than the thicknuss av a hair. 
yes say ortheris calmly you d look fine with all your button take orf an the band in front o you walkin roun slow time. we re both front rank men me an jock when the rig mint s in ollow square. bloomin fine you d look. the lord giveth an the lord taketh awai heasy with that there drop. bless be the naime o the lord he gulp in a quaint and suggestive fashion. 
mullins. wot s mullins. say learoyd slowly. ah d take a coomp ny o mullinses ma hand behind me. sitha mulvaney don t be a fool. 
you be not check for fwhat you do not do an make a mock av afther. twas for le than that the tyrone wud ha send o hara to hell instid av lettin him go by his own choosin whin rafferty shoot him retort mulvaney. 
and who stop the tyrone from do it. i ask. 
that ould fool who s sorry he didn t stick the pig mullins. his head drop again. when he raise it he shiver and put his hand on the shoulder of his two companion. 
ye ve walk the divil out av me bhoys say he. 
ortheris shoot out the red hot dottel of his pipe on the back of the hairy fist. they say ell s otter than that say he a mulvaney swear aloud. you be warn so. look yonder. he point across the river to a ruin temple me an you an im he indicate me by a jerk of his head be there one day when hi make a bloomin show o myself. you an im stop me doin such an hi be on y wishful for to desert. you be makin a big bloomin show o yourself now. 
don t mind him mulvaney i say. dinah shadd win t let you hang yourself yet awhile and you don t intend to try it either. let s hear about the tyrone and o hara. rafferty shoot him for fool with his wife. what happen before that. 
there s no fool like an ould fool. you know you can do anythin wid me whin i m talkin. do i say i wud like to cut mullins s liver out. i deny the imputashin for fear that orth ri here wud report me ah. you wud tip me into the river wud you. sit quiet little man. anyways mullins be not worth the trouble av an extry p rade an i will trate him wid outrajis contimpt. the tyrone an o hara. o hara an the tyrone begad. ould day be hard to bring back into the mouth but they re always inside the head. 
follow a long pause. 
o hara be a divil. though i save him for the honour av the rig mint from his death that time i say it now. he be a divil a long bould black haired divil. 
which way. ask ortheris. 
woman. 
thin i know another. 
not more than in reason if you mane me ye warp walkin shtick. i have be young an for why should i not have tuk what i cud. do i iv whin i be corp ril use the rise av my rank wan step an that take away more s the sorrow an the fault av me. to prosecute a nefarious inthrigue a o hara do. do i whin i be corp ril lay my spite upon a man an make his life a dog s life from day to day. do i lie a o hara lie till the young wan in the tyrone turn white wid the fear av the judgment av god killin thim all in a lump a ut kill the woman at devizes. i do not. i have sin my sin an i have make my confesshin an father victor know the bad av me. o hara be tuk before he cud spake on rafferty s doorstep an no man know the bad av him. but this much i know. 
the tyrone be recruit any fashion in the ould day. a draf from connemara a draf from portsmouth a draf from kerry an that be a blazin bad draf here there and iverywhere but the large av thim be oirish black oirish. now there be oirish an oirish. the good be good a the best but the bad be wurrst than the wurrst. ti this way. they clog together in piece a fast a thief an no wan know fwhat they will do till wan turn informer an the gang be bruk. but ut begin again a day late meetin in hole an corner an swearin bloody oath an shtickin a man in the back an runnin away an thin waitin for the blood money on the reward paper to see if ut s worth enough. those be the black oirish an ti they that bring dishgrace upon the name av oireland an thim i wud kill a i nearly kill wan wanst. 
but to reshume. my room twas before i be marry be wid twelve av the scum av the earth the pickin s av the gutter mane men that wud neither laugh nor talk nor yet get dhrunk a a man shud. they thried some av their dog s thricks on me but i dhrew a line round my cot an the man that thransgressed ut wint into hospital for three day good. 
o hara have put his spite on the room he be my colour sargint an nothin cud we do to plaze him. i be young than i be now an i tuk what i get in the way av dress down and punishment dhrill wid my tongue in my cheek. but it be diff rint wid the others an why i cannot say excipt that some men be borrun mane an go to dhirty murdher where a fist be more than enough. afther a whoile they change their chune to me an be desp rit frien ly all twelve av thim cursin o hara in chorus. 
eyah sez i o hara s a divil an i m not for denyin ut but be he the only man in the wurruld. let him go. he ll get tire av findin our kit foul an our coutrements onproperly kep. 
we will not let him go sez they. 
thin take him sez i an a dash poor yield you will get for your throuble. 
be he not misconductin himself wid slimmy s wife. sez another. 
she s common to the rig mint sez i. fwhat ha make ye this partic lar on a suddint. 
ha he not put his spite on the roomful av u. can we do anythin that he will not check u for. sez another. 
that s thrue sez i. 
will ye not help u to do aught sez another a big bould man like you. 
i will break his head upon his shoulthers av he put hand on me sez i. i will give him the lie av he say that i m dhirty an i wud not mind duckin him in the artillery trough if ut be not that i m thryin for my shtripes. 
be that all ye will do. sez another. have ye no more spunk than that ye blood dhrawn calf. 
blood dhrawn i may be sez i gettin back to my cot an makin my line round ut. but ye know that the man who come acrost this mark will be more blood dhrawn than me. no man give me the name in my mouth i sez. ondersthand i will have no part wid you in anythin ye do nor will i raise my fist to my shuperior. be any wan comin on. sez i. 
they make no move tho i give them full time but stud growlin an snarlin together at wan ind av the room. i tuk up my cap and wint out to canteen thinkin no little av mesilf and there i grow most ondacintly dhrunk in my leg. my head be all reasonable. 
houligan i sez to a man in e comp ny that be by way av bein a frind av mine. i m overtuk from the belt down. do you give me the touch av your shoulther to presarve my formation an march me acrost the grind into the high grass. i ll sleep ut off there sez i. an houligan he s dead now but good he be while he last walk wid me givin me the touch whin i wint wide ontil we come to the high grass an my faith the sky an the earth be fair rowlin undher me. i make for where the grass be thickust an there i slep off my liquor wid an easy conscience. i do not desire to come on book too frequent. my characther havin be shpotless for the good half av a year. 
whin i rouse the dhrink be dyin out in me an i felt a though a she cat have litter in my mouth. i have not learn to hould my liquor wid comfort in thim day. ti little betther i be now. i will get houligan to pour a bucket over my head think i an i wud ha rise but i hear some wan say. mulvaney can take the blame av ut for the backslidin hound he be. 
oho. sez i an my head ring like a guard room gong. fwhat be the blame that this young man must take to oblige tim vulmea. for twas tim vulmea that shpoke. 
i turn on my belly an crawl through the grass a bite at a time to where the spache come from. there be the twelve av my room sittin down in a little patch the dhry grass wavin above their head an the sin av black murdher in their heart. i put the stuff aside to get a clear view. 
fwhat s that. sez wan man jumpin up. 
a dog say vulmea. you re a nice hand to this job. a i say mulvaney will take the blame av ut come to a pinch. 
ti harrd to swear a man s life away sez a young wan. 
thank ye for that think i. now fwhat the divil be you paragins conthrivin against me. 
ti a easy a dhrinkin your quart sez vulmea. at seven or thereon o hara will come acrost to the marry quarter goin to call on slimmy s wife the swine. wan av u ll pas the wurrd to the room an we shtart the divil an all av a shine laughin an crackin on an t rowin our boot about. thin o hara will come to give u the ordher to be quiet the more by token bekaze the room lamp will be knock over in the larkin. he will take the straight road to the ind door where there s the lamp in the veranda an that ll bring him clear against the light a he shtands. he will not be able to look into the dhark. wan av u will loose off an a close shoot ut will be an shame to the man that miss. twill be mulvaney s rifle she that be at the head av the rack there s no mistakin that long shtocked cross eye bitch even in the dhark. 
the thief misname my ould firin piece out av jealousy i be pershuaded av that an ut make me more angry than all. 
but vulmea go on. o hara will dhrop an by the time the light s light again there ll be some six av u on the chest av mulvaney cryin murdher an rape. mulvaney s cot be near the ind door an the shmokin rifle will be lyin undher him whin we ve knock him over. we know an all the rig mint know that mulvaney ha give o hara more lip than any man av u. will there be any doubt at the coort martial. wud twelve honust sodger bhoys swear away the life av a dear quiet swate timpered man such a be mulvaney wid his line av pipe clay roun his cot threatenin u wid murdher av we overshtepped ut a we can truthful testify. 
mary mother av mercy. think i to mesilf. it be this to have an unruly mimber an fistes fit to use. oh the sneakin hound. 
the big dhrops run down my face for i be wake wid the liquor an have not the full av my wit about me. i lay shtill an hear thim workin themselves up to swear my life by tellin tale av ivry time i have put my mark on wan or another. an my faith they be few that be not so dishtinguished. twas all in the way av fair fight though for niver do i raise my hand excipt whin they have provoke me to ut. 
ti all well sez wan av thim but who s to do this shootin. 
fwhat matther. sez vulmea. ti mulvaney will do that at the coort martial. 
he will so sez the man but whose hand be put to the trigger in the room. 
who ll do ut. sez vulmea lookin round but divil a man answeared. they begin to dishpute till kiss that be always playin shpoil five sez. thry the kyards. wid that he opine his tunic an tuk out the greasy palammers an they all fell in wid the notion. 
deal on. sez vulmea wid a big rattlin oath an the black curse av shielygh come to the man that will not do his duty a the kyards say. amin. 
black jack be the masther sez kiss dealin. black jack sorr i shud expaytiate to you be the ace av shpades which from time immimorial ha be intimately connect wid battle murdher an suddin death. 
wanst kiss deal an there be no sign but the men be whoite wid the workin s av their sowls. twice kiss deal an there be a gray shine on their cheek like the mess av an egg. three time kiss deal an they be blue. have ye not lose him. sez vulmea wipin the sweat on him. let s ha do quick. quick ut be sez kiss t rowin him the kyard. an ut fell face up on his knee black jack. 
thin they all cackle wid laughin. duty thrippence sez wan av thim an damn cheap at that price. but i cud see they all dhrew a little away from vulmea an lef him sittin playin wid the kyard. vulmea sez no word for a whoile but lick his lip cat way. thin he throw up his head an make the men swear by ivry oath know to stand by him not alone in the room but at the coort martial that be to set on me. he tould off five av the big to stretch me on my cot whin the shoot be fire an another man he tould off to put out the light an yet another to load my rifle. he wud not do that himself. an that be quare for twas but a little thing considerin. 
thin they swear over again that they wud not bethray wan another an crep out av the grass in diff rint way two by two. a mercy ut be that they do not come on me. i be sick wid fear in the pit av my stummick sick sick sick. afther they be all go i wint back to canteen an call for a quart to put a think in me. vulmea be there dhrinkin heavy an politeful to me beyond reason. fwhat will i do fwhat will i do. think i to mesilf whin vulmea wint away. 
presintly the arm rer sargint come in stiffin an crackin on not please wid any wan bekaze the martini henri bein new to the rig mint in those day we use to play the mischief wid her arrangement. twas a long time before i cud get out av the way av thryin to pull back the back sight an turnin her over afther firin a if she be a snide. 
fwhat tailor men do they give me to work wid. sez the arm rer sargint. here s hogan his nose flat a a table lay by for a week an ivry comp ny sendin their arrums in knock to small shivreens. 
fwhat s wrong wid hogan sargint. sez i. 
wrong. sez the arm rer sargint. i show him a though i have be his mother the way av shtrippin a tini an he shtrup her clane an easy. i tould him to put her to again an fire a blank into the blow pit to show how the dirt hang on the groovin. he do that but he do not put in the pin av the fallin block an av coorse whin he fire he be strook by the block jumpin clear. well for him twas but a blank a full charge wud ha cut his oi out. 
i look a thrifle wise than a boil sheep s head. how s that sargint. sez i. 
this way ye blundherin man an don t you be doin ut sez he. wid that he show me a waster action the breech av her all cut away to show the inside an so plazed he be to grumble that he dimonstrated fwhat hogan have do twice over. an that come av not knowin the wepping you re purvided wid sez he. 
thank ye sargint sez i. i will come to you again for further information. 
ye will not sez he. kape your clanin rod away from the breech pin or you will get into throuble. 
i wint outside an i could ha dance wid delight for the grandeur av ut. they will load my rifle good luck to thim whoile i m away think i and back i wint to the canteen to give them their clear chanst. 
the canteen be fillin wid men at the ind av the day. i make feign to be far go in dhrink an wan by wan all my roomful come in wid vulmea. i wint away walkin thick an heavy but not so thick an heavy that any wan cud ha tuk me. sure and thrue there be a kyartridge go from my pouch an lyin snug in my rifle. i be hot wid rage against thim all an i worry the bullet out wid my teeth a fast a i cud the room bein empty. then i tuk my boot an the clanin rod and knock out the pin av the fallin block. oh twas music when that pin rowled on the flure. i put ut into my pouch an stick a dab av dirt on the hole in the plate puttin the fallin block back. that ll do your business vulmea sez i lyin easy on the cot. come an sit on my chest the whole room av you an i will take you to my bosom for the big divils that iv cheat halter. i wud have no mercy on vulmea. his oi or his life little i care. 
at dusk they come back the twelve av thim an they have all be dhrinkin. i be shammin sleep on the cot. wan man wint outside in the veranda. whin he whishtled they begin to rage roun the room an carry on tremenjus. but i niver want to hear men laugh a they do skylarkin too. twas like mad jackal. 
shtop that blast noise. sez o hara in the dark an pop go the room lamp. i cud hear o hara runnin up an the rattlin av my rifle in the rack an the men breathin heavy a they stud roun my cot. i cud see o hara in the light av the veranda lamp an thin i hear the crack av my rifle. she cry loud poor darlint bein mishandle. next minut five men be houldin me down. go easy i sez. fwhat s ut all about. 
thin vulmea on the flure raise a howl you cud hear from wan ind av cantonmints to the other. i m dead i m butcher i m blind. sez he. saint have mercy on my sinful sowl. sind for father constant. oh sind for father constant an let me go clean. by that i know he be not so dead a i cud ha wish. 
o hara pick up the lamp in the veranda wid a hand a stiddy a a rest. fwhat damn dog s thrick be this av yours. sez he an turn the light on tim vulmea that be shwimmin in blood from top to toe. the fallin block have spring free behin a full charge av powther good care i tuk to bite down the brass af ther takin out the bullet that there might be somethin to give ut full worth an have cut tim from the lip to the corner av the right eye lavin the eyelid in tatthers an so up an along by the forehead to the hair. twas more av a rakin plough if you will ondherstand than a clean cut. an niver do i see a man bleed a vulmea do. the dhrink an the stew that he be in pump the blood strong. the minut the men sittin on my chest hear o hara spakin they scatthered each wan to his cot an cry out very politeful. fwhat be ut sargint. 
fwhat be ut. sez o hara shakin tim. well an good do you know fwhat ut be ye skulkin ditch lurkin dog. get a doolie an take this whimperin scutt away. there will be more hear av ut than any av you will care for. 
vulmea sit up rockin his head in his hand an moanin for father constant. 
be do. sez o hara dhraggin him up by the hair. you re none so dead that you cannot go fifteen year for thryin to shoot me. 
i do not sez vulmea. i be shootin mesilf. 
that s quare sez o hara for the front av my jackut be black wid your powther. he tuk up the rifle that be still warm an begin to laugh. i ll make your life hell to you sez he for attempt murdher an kapin your rifle onproperly. you ll be hang first an thin put undher stoppage for four fifteen. the rifle s do for sez he. 
why ti my rifle. sez i comin up to look. vulmea ye divil fwhat be you doin wid her answer me that. 
lave me alone sez vulmea. i m dyin. 
i ll wait till you re betther sez i an thin we two will talk ut out umbrageous. 
o hara pitch tim into the doolie_ none too tinder but all the bhoys kep by their cot which be not the sign av innocint men. i be huntin ivrywhere for my fallin block but not findin ut at all. i niver find ut. 
_now fwhat will i do. sez o hara swing the veranda light in his hand an lookin down the room. i have hate and contimpt av o hara an i have now dead tho he be but for all that will i say he be a brave man. he be baskin in purgathory this tide but i wish he cud hear that whin he stud lookin down the room an the bhoys shiver before the oi av him i know him for a brave man an i like him so. 
fwhat will i do. sez o hara agin an we hear the voice av a woman low an sof in the veranda. twas slimmy s wife come over at the shoot sittin on wan av the bench an scarce able to walk. 
o denny. denny dear sez she have they kilt you. 
o hara look down the room again an show his teeth to the gum. then he spat on the flure. 
you re not worth ut sez he. light that lamp ye dog an wid that he turn away an i saw him walkin off wid slimmy s wife. she thryin to wipe off the powther black on the front av his jackut wid her handkerchief. a brave man you be think i a brave man an a bad woman. 
no wan say a word for a time. they be all ashamed past spache. 
fwhat d you think he will do. sez wan av thim at last. he know we re all in ut. 
be we so. sez i from my cot. the man that sez that to me will be hurt. i do not know sez i fwhat onderhand divilmint you have conthrived but by what i ve see i know that you cannot commit murdher wid another man s rifle such shakin coward you be. i m goin to slape i sez an you can blow my head off whoile i lay. i do not slape though for a long time. can ye wonder. 
next morn the news be through all the rig mint an there be nothin that the men do not tell. o hara report fair an easy that vulmea be come to grief through tamperin wid his rifle in barricks all for to show the mechanism. an by my sowl he have the impart nince to say that he be on the shpot at the time an cud certify that ut be an accidint. you might ha knock my roomful down wid a straw whin they hear that. twas lucky for thim that the bhoys be always thryin to find out how the new rifle be make an a lot av thim have come up for easin the pull by shtickin bit av grass an such in the part av the lock that show near the thrigger. the first issue of the tinis be not cover in an i mesilf have ease the pull av mine time an agin. a light pull be ten point on the range to me. 
i will not have this foolishness. sez the colonel. i will twist the tail off vulmea. sez he. but whin he saw him all tie up an groanin in hospital he change his will. make him an early convalescint sez he to the doctor an vulmea be make so for a warnin. his big bloody bandage an face pucker up to wan side do more to kape the bhoys from messin wid the inside av their rifle than any punishmint. 
o hara give no reason for fwhat he d say an all my roomful be too glad to inquire tho he put his spite upon thim more wearin than before. wan day howiver he tuk me apart very polite for he cud be that at the choosin. 
you re a good sodger tho you re a damn insolint man sez he. 
fair word sargint sez i or i may be insolint again. 
ti not like you sez he to lave your rifle in the rack widout the breech pin for widout the breech pin she be whin vulmea fire. i should ha find the break av ut in the eye av the hole else he sez. 
sargint sez i fwhat wud your life ha be worth av the breech pin have be in place for on my sowl my life wud be worth just a much to me av i tould you whether ut be or be not. be thankful the bullet be not there i sez. 
that s thrue sez he pull his moustache. but i do not believe that you for all your lip be in that business. 
sargint i sez i cud hammer the life out av a man in ten minuts wid my fistes if that man dishpleased me. for i be a good sodger an i will be threated a such an whoile my fistes be my own they re strong enough for all work i have to do. they do not fly back towards me. sez i lookin him betune the eye. 
you re a good man sez he lookin me betune the eye an oh he be a gran build man to see. you re a good man he sez an i cud wish for the pure frolic av ut that i be not a sargint or that you be not a privit. an you will think me no coward whin i say this thing. 
i do not sez i. i saw you whin vulmea mishandle the rifle. but sargint i sez take the wurrd from me now spakin a man to man wid the shtripes off tho ti little right i have to talk me be fwhat i be by natur. this time ye tuk no harm an next time ye may not but in the ind so sure a slimmy s wife come into the veranda so sure will ye take harm an bad harm. have think sargint sez i. be ut worth ut. 
ye re a bould man sez he breathin harrd. a very bould man. but i be a bould man tu. do you go your way privit mulvaney an i will go mine. 
we have no further spache thin or afther but wan by another he draft the twelve av my room out into other room an get thim spread among the comp ny for they be not a good breed to live together an the comp ny orf cer saw ut. they wud ha shoot me in the night av they have know fwhat i know. but that they do not. 
an in the ind a i say o hara meet his death from rafferty for foolin wid his wife. he wint his own way too well eyah too well. shtraight to that affair widout turnin to the right or to the lef he wint an may the lord have mercy on his sowl. amin. 
ear. ear. say ortheris point the moral with a wave of his pipe. an this be im oo would be a bloomin vulmea all for the sake of mullins an a bloomin button. mullins never go after a woman in his life. mr. mullins she saw im one day. 
ortheris i say hastily for the romance of private ortheris be all too dare for publication look at the sun. it s a quarter past six. 
o lord. three quarter of an hour for five an a arf mile. we ll ave to run like jimmy o. 
the three musketeer clamber on to the bridge and depart hastily in the direction of the cantonment road. when i overtake them i offer them two stirrup and a tail which they accept enthusiastically. ortheris hold the tail and in this manner we trot steadily through the shadow by an unfrequented road. 
at the turn into the cantonment we hear carriage wheel. it be the colonel s barouche and in it sit the colonel s wife and daughter. i catch a suppress chuckle and my beast spring forward with a light step. 
the three musketeer have vanish into the night. 
l envoi. 
and they be strong hand than mine that digged the ruby from the earth more cunning brain that make it worth the large desire of a king. and bold heart that through the brine go down the perfect pearl to bring. 
lo i have make in common clay rude figure of a rough hew race. for pearl strew not the market place in this my town of banishment where with the shift dust i play and eat the bread of discontent. 
yet be there life in that i make oh thou who knowest turn and see a thou hast power over me so i have power over these because i work them for thy sake and breathe in them mine agony. 
small mirth be in the make. now i lift the cloth that clokes the clay and weary at thy foot i lay my ware ere i go forth to sell. the long bazar will praise but thou heart of my heart have i do well. 
poor dear mamma. 
the wild hawk to the wind sweep sky the deer to the wholesome wold and the heart of a man to the heart of a maid a it be in the day of old. gypsy song. 
scene. interior of miss minnie threegan s bedroom at simla. miss threegan in window seat turn over a drawerful of thing. miss emma deercourt bosom friend who ha come to spend the day sit on the bed manipulate the bodice of a ballroom frock and a bunch of artificial lily of the valley. time. p. m. on a hot may afternoon. 
miss deercourt. and he say. i shall never forget this dance and of course i say. oh. how can you be so silly. do you think he mean anything dear. 
miss threegan. extract long lavender silk stock from the rubbish. you know him good than i do. 
miss d. oh do be sympathetic minnie. i m sure he doe. at least i would be sure if he wasn t always rid with that odious mr. hagan. 
miss t. i suppose so. how doe one manage to dance through one s heel first. look at this isn t it shameful. spread stock heel on open hand for inspection. 
miss d. never mind that. you can t mend it. help me with this hateful bodice i ve run the string so_ and i ve run the string so_ and i can t make the fulness come right. where would you put this. wave lily of the valley. 
miss t. a high up on the shoulder a possible. 
miss d. be i quite tall enough. i know it make may olger look lop side. 
miss t. yes but may hasn t your shoulder. hers be like a hock bottle. 
bearer. rap at door. captain sahib aya. 
miss d. jump up wildly and hunt for body which she ha discard owe to the heat of the day. captain sahib. what captain sahib. oh good gracious and i m only half dress. well i shan t bother. 
miss t. calmly. you needn t. it isn t for u. that s captain gadsby. he be go for a ride with mamma. he generally come five day out of the seven. 
agonise voice. from an inner apartment. minnie run out and give captain gadsby some tea and tell him i shall be ready in ten minute. and o minnie come to me an instant there s a dear girl. 
miss t. oh bother. aloud. very well mamma. 
exit and reappear after five minute flush and rub her finger. 
miss d. you look pink. what ha happen. 
miss t. in a stage whisper. a twenty four inch waist and she win t let it out. where be my bangle. rummage on the toilet table and dab at her hair with a brush in the interval. 
miss d. who be this captain gadsby. i don t think i ve meet him. 
miss t. you must have. he belong to the harrar set. i ve dance with him but i ve never talk to him. he s a big yellow man just like a newly hatch chicken with an e normous moustache. he walk like this. imitate cavalry swagger. and he go ha hmmm. deep down in his throat when he can t think of anything to say. mamma like him. i don t. 
miss d. abstractedly. doe he wax his moustache. 
miss t. busy with powder puff. } yes i think so. why. 
miss d. bend on the bodice and sew furiously. oh nothing only. 
miss t. sternly. only what. out with it emma. 
miss d. well may olger she s engage to mr. charteris you know say promise you win t repeat this. 
miss t. yes i promise. what do she say. 
miss d. that that be kiss. with a rush. by a man who didn t wax his moustache be like eat an egg without salt. 
miss t. at her full height with crush scorn. may olger be a horrid nasty thing_ and you can tell her i say so. i m glad she doesn t belong to my set i must go and fee this man. do i look presentable. 
miss d. yes perfectly. be quick and hand him over to your mother and then we can talk. i shall listen at the door to hear what you say to him. 
miss t. sure i don t care. i m not afraid of captain gadsby. 
in proof of this swing into draw room with a mannish stride follow by two short step which produce the effect of a restive horse enter. miss captain gadsby who be sit in the shadow of the window curtain and gaze round helplessly. 
captain gadsby. aside. the filly by jove. must ha pick up that action from the sire. aloud rise. good even miss threegan. 
miss t. conscious that she be flush. good even captain gadsby. mamma tell me to say that she will be ready in a few minute. win t you have some tea. aside. i hope mamma will be quick. what be i to say to the creature. aloud and abruptly. milk and sugar. 
capt. g. no sugar tha anks and very little milk. ha hmmm. 
miss t. aside. if he s go to do that i m lose. i shall laugh. i know i shall. 
capt. g. pull at his moustache and watch it sideways down his nose. ha hmmm. aside. wonder what the little beast can talk about. must make a shoot at it. 
miss t. aside. oh this be agonise. i must say something. 
both together. have you be. 
capt. g. i beg your pardon. you be go to say. 
miss t. who ha be watch the moustache with awe fascination. win t you have some egg. 
capt. g. look bewilderedly at the tea table. egg. a side. o hades. she must have a nursery tea at this hour. s pose they ve wipe her mouth and send her to me while the mother be get on her dud. aloud. no thank. 
miss t. crimson with confusion. oh. i didn t mean that. i wasn t think of mou egg for an instant. i mean salt. win t you have some sa sweet. aside. he ll think me a rave lunatic. i wish mamma would come. 
capt. g. aside. it be a nursery tea and she s ashamed of it. by jove. she doesn t look half bad when she colour up like that. aloud help himself from the dish. have you see those new chocolate at peliti s. 
miss t. no i make these myself. what be they like. 
capt. g. these. de licious. aside. and that s a fact. 
miss t. aside. oh bother. he ll think i m fish for compliment. aloud. no peliti s of course. 
capt. g. enthusiastically. not to compare with these. how d you make them. i can t get my khansamah to understand the simple thing beyond mutton and fowl. 
miss t. yes. i m not a khansamah_ you know. perhaps you frighten him. you should never frighten a servant. he lose his head. it s very bad policy. 
capt. g. he s so awf ly stupid. 
miss t. fold her hand in her lap. you should call him quietly and say. o khansamah jee. 
capt. g. get interest. yes. aside. fancy that little featherweight say o khansamah jee to my bloodthirsty mir khan. 
miss t. then you should explain the dinner dish by dish. 
capt. g. but i can t speak the vernacular. 
miss t. patronizingly. you should pas the high standard and try. 
capt. g. i have but i don t seem to be any the wise. be you. 
miss t. i never pass the high standard. but the khansamah be very patient with me. he doesn t get angry when i talk about sheep s topees_ or order maund of grain when i mean seer. 
capt. g. aside with intense indignation. i d like to see mir khan be rude to that girl. hullo. steady the buff. aloud. and do you understand about horse too. 
miss t. a little not very much. i can t doctor them but i know what they ought to eat and i be in charge of our stable. 
capt. g. indeed. you might help me then. what ought a man to give his sais in the hill. my ruffian say eight rupee because everything be so dear. 
miss t. six rupee a month and one rupee simla allowance neither more nor le. and a grass cut get six rupee. that s good than buy grass in the bazar. 
capt. g. admiringly. how do you know. 
miss t. i have try both way. 
capt. g. do you ride much then. i ve never see you on the mall. 
miss t. aside. i haven t pass him more than fifty time. aloud. nearly every day. 
capt. g. by jove. i didn t know that. ha hmmm. pull at his moustache and be silent for forty second. 
miss t. desperately and wonder what will happen next. it look beautiful. i shouldn t touch it if i be you. aside. it s all mamma s fault for not come before. i will be rude. 
capt. g. bronze under the tan and bring down his hand very quickly. eh. wha at. oh yes. ha. ha. laugh uneasily. aside. well of all the dash cheek. i never have a woman say that to me yet. she must be a cool hand or else ah. that nursery tea. 
voice from the unknown. tchk. tchk. tchk. 
capt. g. good gracious. what s that. 
miss t. the dog i think. aside. emma ha be listen and i ll never forgive her. 
capt. g. aside. they don t keep dog here. aloud. didn t sound like a dog do it. 
miss t. then it must have be the cat. let s go into the veranda. what a lovely even it be. 
step into veranda and look out across the hill into sunset. the captain follow. 
capt. g. aside. superb eye. i wonder that i never notice them before. aloud. there s go to be a dance at viceregal lodge on wednesday. can you spare me one. 
miss t. shortly. no. i don t want any of your charity dance. you only ask me because mamma tell you to. i hop and i bump. you know i do. 
capt. g. aside. that s true but little girl shouldn t understand these thing. aloud. no_ on my word i don t. you dance beautifully. 
miss t. then why do you always stand out after half a dozen turn. i think officer in the army didn t tell fib. 
capt. g. it wasn t a fib believe me. i really do want the pleasure of a dance with you. 
miss t. wickedly. why. win t mamma dance with you any more. 
capt. g. more earnestly than the necessity demand. i wasn t think of your mother. aside. you little vixen. 
miss t. still look out of the window. eh. oh i beg your pardon. i be think of something else. 
capt. g. aside. well. i wonder what she ll say next. i ve never know a woman treat me like this before. i might be dash it i might be an infantry subaltern. aloud. oh please don t trouble. i m not worth think about. isn t your mother ready yet. 
miss t. i should think so. but promise me captain gadsby you win t take poor dear mamma twice round jakko any more. it tire her so. 
capt. g. she say that no exercise tire her. 
miss t. yes but she suffer afterwards. you don t know what rheumatism be and you oughtn t to keep her out so late when it get chill in the evening. 
capt. g. aside. rheumatism. i think she come off her horse rather in a bunch. whew. one life and learn. aloud. i m sorry to hear that. she hasn t mention it to me. 
miss t. flurry. of course not. poor dear mamma never would. and you mustn t say that i tell you either. promise me that you win t. oh captain gadsby promise me you win t. 
capt. g. i be dumb or i shall be a soon a you ve give me that dance and another if you can trouble yourself to think about me for a minute. 
miss t. but you win t like it one little bite. you ll be awfully sorry afterwards. 
capt. g. i shall like it above all thing and i shall only be sorry that i didn t get more. aside. now what in the world be i say. 
miss t. very well. you will have only yourself to thank if your toe be tread on. shall we say seven. 
capt. g. and eleven. aside. she can t be more than eight stone but even then it s an absurdly small foot. look at his own rid boot. 
miss t. they re beautifully shiny. i can almost see my face in them. 
capt. g. i be think whether i should have to go on crutch for the rest of my life if you tread on my toe. 
miss t. very likely. why not change eleven for a square. 
capt. g. no please. i want them both waltz. win t you write them down. 
miss t. i don t get so many dance that i shall confuse them. you will be the offender. 
capt. g. wait and see. aside. she doesn t dance perfectly perhaps but. 
miss t. your tea must have get cold by this time. win t you have another cup. 
capt. g. no thank. don t you think it s pleasant out in the veranda. aside. i never saw hair take that colour in the sunshine before. aloud. it s like one of dicksee s picture. 
miss t. yes. it s a wonderful sunset isn t it. bluntly. but what do you know about dicksee s picture. 
capt. g. i go home occasionally. and i use to know the gallery. nervously. you mustn t think me only a philistine with a moustache. 
miss t. don t. please don t. i m so sorry for what i say then. i be horribly rude. it slip out before i think. don t you know the temptation to say frightful and shock thing just for the mere sake of say them. i m afraid i give way to it. 
capt. g. watch the girl a she flush. i think i know the feel. it would be terrible if we all yield to it wouldn t it. for instance i might say. 
poor dear mamma. enter habit hat and boot. ah captain gadsby. sorry to keep you wait. hope you haven t be bore. my little girl be talk to you. 
miss t. aside. i m not sorry i speak about the rheumatism. i m not. i m not. i only wish i d mention the corn too. 
capt. g. aside. what a shame. i wonder how old she be. it never occur to me before. aloud. we ve be discuss shakespeare and the musical glass in the veranda. 
miss t. aside. nice man. he know that quotation. he isn t a philistine with a moustache. aloud. good bye captain gadsby. aside. what a huge hand and what a squeeze. i don t suppose he mean it but he ha drive the ring into my finger. 
poor dear mamma. ha vermillion come round yet. oh yes. captain gadsby don t you think that the saddle be too far forward. they pas into the front veranda. 
capt. g. aside. how the dickens should i know what she prefer. she tell me that she dot on horse. aloud. i think it be. 
miss t. come out into front veranda. oh. bad buldoo. i must speak to him for this. he ha take up the curb two link and vermillion hate that. pass out and to horse s head. 
capt. g. let me do it. 
miss t. no vermillion understand me. don t you old man. loos curb chain skilfully and pat horse on nose and throttle. poor vermillion. do they want to cut his chin off. there. 
captain gadsby watch the interlude with undisguised admiration. 
poor dear mamma. tartly to miss t. you ve forget your guest i think dear. 
miss t. good gracious. so i have. good bye. retreat indoors hastily. 
poor dear mamma. bunch rein in finger hamper by too tight gauntlet. captain gadsby. 
captain gadsby stoop and make the foot rest. 
poor dear mamma blunder halt too long and break through it. 
capt. g. aside. can t hold up eleven stone for ever. it s all your rheumatism. aloud. can t imagine why i be so clumsy. aside. now little featherweight would have go up like a bird. 
they ride out of the garden. the captain fall back. 
capt. g. aside. how that habit catch her under the arm. ugh. 
poor dear mamma. with the wear smile of sixteen season the bad for exchange. you re dull this afternoon captain gadsby. 
capt. g. spur up wearily. why do you keep me wait so long. 
et caetera et caetera et caetera. 
an interval of three week. 
gild youth. sit on railing opposite town hall. hullo gaddy. be trot out the gorgonzola. we all think it be the gorgon you re mash. 
capt. g. with wither emphasis. you young cub. what the doe it matter to you. 
proceed to read gild youth a lecture on discretion and deportment which crumble latter like a chinese lantern. depart fume. 
further interval of five week. 
scene. exterior of new simla library on a foggy even. miss threegan and miss deercourt meet among the rickshaw. miss t. be carry a bundle of book under her leave arm. 
miss d. level intonation. well. 
miss t. ascend intonation. well. 
miss d. capture her friend s leave arm take away all the book place book in rickshaw return to arm secure hand by the third finger and investigate. well. you bad girl. and you never tell me. 
miss t. demurely. he he he only speak yesterday afternoon. 
miss d. bless you dear. and i m to be bridesmaid aren t i. you know you promise ever so long ago. 
miss t. of course. i ll tell you all about it to morrow. get into rickshaw. o emma. 
miss d. with intense interest. yes dear. 
miss t. piano. it s quite true about the egg. 
miss d. what egg. 
miss t. pianissimo prestissimo. the egg without the salt. forte. chalo ghar ko jaldi jhampani. go home jhampani. 
the world without. 
certain people of importance. 
scene. smoke room of the deychi club. time_. p. m. of a stuffy night in the rain. four men disperse in picturesque attitude and easy chair. to these enter blayne of the irregular mogul in even dress. 
blayne. phew. the judge ought to be hang in his own store godown. hi khitmatgar. poora whiskey peg to take the taste out of my mouth. 
curtis. royal artillery. that s it be it. what the deuce make you dine at the judge s. you know his bandobust. 
blayne. think it couldn t be bad than the club. but i ll swear he buy ullaged liquor and doctor it with gin and ink. look round the room. be this all of you tonight. 
doone. p. w. d. anthony be call out at dinner. mingle have a pain in his tummy. 
curtis. miggy dy of cholera once a week in the rain and get drink on chlorodyne in between. good little chap though. any one at the judge s blayne. 
blayne. cockley and his memsahib look awfully white and fag. female girl couldn t catch the name on her way to the hill under the cockleys charge the judge and markyn fresh from simla disgustingly fit. 
curtis. good lord how truly magnificent. be there enough ice. when i mangle garbage there i get one whole lump nearly a big a a walnut. what have markyn to say for himself. 
blayne. seem that every one be have a fairly good time up there in spite of the rain. by jove that remind me. i know i hadn t come across just for the pleasure of your society. news. great news. markyn tell me. 
doone. who s dead now. 
blayne. no one that i know of. but gaddy s hook at last. 
drop chorus. how much. the devil. markyn be pull your leg. not gaddy. 
blayne. hum. yea verily verily verily. verily verily i say unto thee. theodore the gift o god. our phillup. it s be give out up above. 
mackesy. barrister at law. huh. woman will give out anything. what doe accuse say. 
blayne. markyn tell me that he congratulate him warily one hand hold out t other ready to guard. gaddy turn pink and say it be so. 
curtis. poor old gaddy. they all do it. who s she. let s hear the detail. 
blayne. she s a girl daughter of a colonel somebody. 
doone. simla s stiff with colonel daughter. be more explicit. 
blayne. wait a shake. what be her name. three something. three. 
curtis. star perhaps. gaddy know that brand. 
blayne. threegan minnie threegan. 
mackesy. threegan. isn t she a little bite of a girl with red hair. 
blayne. bout that from what markyn say. 
mackesy. then i ve meet her. she be at lucknow last season. own a permanently juvenile mamma and dance damnably. i say jervoise you know the threegans didn t you. 
jervoise. civilian of twenty five year service wake up from his doze. eh. what s that. know who. how. i think i be at home confound you. 
mackesy. the threegan girl s engage so blayne say. 
jervoise. slowly. engage engage. bless my soul. i m get an old man. little minnie threegan engage. it be only the other day i go home with them in the surat no the massilia and she be crawl about on her hand and knee among the ayah. use to call me the tick tack sahib because i show her my watch. and that be in sixty seven no seventy. good god how time fly. i m an old man. i remember when threegan marry miss derwent daughter of old hooky derwent but that be before your time. and so the little baby s engage to have a little baby of her own. who s the other fool. 
mackesy. gadsby of the pink hussar. 
jervoise. never meet him. threegan live in debt marry in debt and ll die in debt. must be glad to get the girl off his hand. 
blayne. gaddy ha money lucky devil. place at home too. 
doone. he come of first class stock. can t quite understand his be catch by a colonel s daughter and. look cautiously round room. black infantry at that. no offence to you blayne. 
blayne. stiffly. not much tha anks. 
curtis. quote motto of irregular mogul. we be what we be eh old man. but gaddy be such a superior animal a a rule. why didn t he go home and pick his wife there. 
mackesy. they be all alike when they come to the turn into the straight. about thirty a man begin to get sick of live alone. 
curtis. and of the eternal muttony chop in the morning. 
doone. it s dead goat a a rule but go on mackesy. 
mackesy. if a man s once take that way nothing will hold him. do you remember benoit of your service doone. they transfer him to tharanda when his time come and he marry a platelayer s daughter or something of that kind. she be the only female about the place. 
doone. yes poor brute. that smash benoit s chance of promotion altogether. mr. benoit use to ask. be you goin to the dance this evenin. 
curtis. hang it all. gaddy hasn t marry beneath him. there s no tar brush in the family i suppose. 
jervoise. tar brush. not an anna. you young fellow talk a though the man be do the girl an honour in marry her. you re all too conceited nothing s good enough for you. 
blayne. not even an empty club a dam bad dinner at the judge s and a station a sickly a a hospital. you re quite right. we re a set of sybarite. 
doone. luxurious dog wallow in. 
curtis. prickly heat between the shoulder. i m cover with it. let s hope beora will be cool. 
blayne. whew. be you order into camp too. i think the gunner have a clean sheet. 
curtis. no bad luck. two case yesterday one die and if we have a third out we go. be there any shoot at beora doone. 
doone. the country s under water except the patch by the grand trunk road. i be there yesterday look at a bund and come across four poor devil in their last stage. it s rather bad from here to kuchara. 
curtis. then we re pretty certain to have a heavy go of it. heigho. i shouldn t mind change place with gaddy for a while. sport with amaryllis in the shade of the town hall and all that. oh why doesn t somebody come and marry me instead of let me go into cholera camp. 
mackesy. ask the committee. 
curtis. you ruffian. you ll stand me another peg for that. blayne what will you take. mackesy be fine on moral ground. doone have you any preference. 
doone. small glass kummel please. excellent carminative these day. anthony tell me so. 
mackesy. sign votucher for four drink. most unfair punishment. i only think of curtis a actaeon be chivy round the billiard table by the nymph of diana. 
blayne. curtis would have to import his nymph by train. mr. cockley s the only woman in the station. she win t leave cockley and he s do his best to get her to go. 
curtis. good indeed. here s mr. cockley s health. to the only wife in the station and a damn brave woman. 
omnes. drink. a damn brave woman. 
blayne. i suppose gaddy will bring his wife here at the end of the cold weather. they be go to be marry almost immediately i believe. 
curtis. gaddy may thank his luck that the pink hussar be all detachment and no headquarter this hot weather or he d be tear from the arm of his love a sure a death. have you ever notice the thorough mind way british cavalry take to cholera. it s because they be so expensive. if the pink have stand fast here they would have be out in camp a month ago. yes i should decidedly like to be gaddy. 
mackesy. he ll go home after he s marry and send in his paper see if he doesn t. 
blayne. why shouldn t he. hasn t he money. would any one of u be here if we weren t pauper. 
doone. poor old pauper. what ha become of the six hundred you rook from our table last month. 
blayne. it take unto itself wing. i think an enterprising tradesman get some of it and a shroff gobble the rest or else i spend it. 
curtis. gaddy never have dealing with a shroff in his life. 
doone. virtuous gaddy. if i have three thousand a month pay from england i don t think i d deal with a shroff either. 
mackesy. yawn. oh it s a sweet life. i wonder whether matrimony would make it sweet. 
curtis. ask cockley with his wife die by inch. 
blayne. go home and get a fool of a girl to come out to what be it thackeray say. the splendid palace of an indian pro consul. 
doone. which remind me. my quarter leak like a sieve. i have fever last night from sleep in a swamp. and the bad of it be one can t do anything to a roof till the rain be over. 
curtis. what s wrong with you. you haven t eighty rot tommies to take into a run stream. 
doone. no. but i m mix boil and bad language. i m a regular job all over my body. it s sheer poverty of blood and i don t see any chance of get rich either way. 
blayne. can t you take leave. 
doone. that s the pull you army men have over u. ten day be nothing in your sight. i m so important that government can t find a substitute if i go away. ye e i d like to be gaddy whoever his wife may be. 
curtis. you ve pass the turn of life that mackesy be speak of. 
doone. indeed i have but i never yet have the brutality to ask a woman to share my life out here. 
blayne. on my soul i believe you re right. i m think of mr. cockley. the woman s an absolute wreck. 
doone. exactly. because she stay down here. the only way to keep her fit would be to send her to the hill for eight month and the same with any woman. i fancy i see myself take a wife on those term. 
mackesy. with the rupee at one and sixpence. the little doones would be little dehra doones with a fine mussoorie chi chi anent to bring home for the holiday. 
curtis. and a pair of be ewtiful sambhur horn for doone to wear free of expense present by. 
doone. yes it s an enchant prospect. by the way the rupee hasn t do fall yet. the time will come when we shall think ourselves lucky if we only lose half our pay. 
curtis. surely a third s loss enough. who gain by the arrangement. that s what i want to know. 
blayne. the silver question. i m go to bed if you begin squabble. thank goodness here s anthony look like a ghost. 
enter anthony indian medical staff very white and tire. 
anthony. even blayne. it s rain in sheet. whiskey peg lao khitmatgar. the road be something ghastly. 
curtis. how s mingle. 
anthony. very bad and more frighten. i hand him over to fewton. mingle might just a well have call him in the first place instead of bother me. 
blayne. he s a nervous little chap. what ha he get this time. 
anthony. can t quite say. a very bad tummy and a blue funk so far. he ask me at once if it be cholera and i tell him not to be a fool. that soothe him. 
curtis. poor devil. the funk doe half the business in a man of that build. 
anthony. light a cheroot. i firmly believe the funk will kill him if he stay down. you know the amount of trouble he s be give fewton for the last three week. he s do his very best to frighten himself into the grave. 
general chorus. poor little devil. why doesn t he get away. 
anthony. can t. he ha his leave all right but he s so dip he can t take it and i don t think his name on paper would raise four anna. that s in confidence though. 
mackesy. all the station know it. 
anthony. i suppose i shall have to die here he say squirm all across the bed. he s quite make up his mind to kingdom come. and i know he ha nothing more than a wet weather tummy if he could only keep a hand on himself. 
blayne. that s bad. that s very bad. poor little miggy. good little chap too. i say. 
anthony. what do you say. 
blayne. well look here anyhow. if it s like that a you say i say fifty. 
curtis. i say fifty. 
mackesy. i go twenty good. 
doone. bloat croesus of the bar. i say fifty. jervoise what do you say. hi. wake up. 
jervoise. eh. what s that. what s that. 
curtis. we want a hundred rupee from you. you re a bachelor draw a gigantic income and there s a man in a hole. 
jervoise. what man. any one dead. 
blayne. no but he ll die if you don t give the hundred. here. here s a peg voucher. you can see what we ve sign for and anthony s man will come round to morrow to collect it. so there will be no trouble. 
jervoise. sign. one hundred e. m. j. there you be. feebly. it isn t one of your joke be it. 
blayne. no it really be want. anthony you be the big poker winner last week and you ve defraud the tax collector too long. sign. 
anthony. let s see. three fifty and a seventy two twenty three twenty say four hundred and twenty. that ll give him a month clear at the hill. many thank you men. i ll send round the chaprassi tomorrow. 
curtis. you must engineer his take the stuff and of course you mustn t. 
anthony. of course. it would never do. he d weep with gratitude over his even drink. 
blayne. that s just what he would do damn him. oh. i say anthony you pretend to know everything. have you hear about gaddy. 
anthony. no. divorce court at last. 
blayne. bad. he s engage. 
anthony. how much. he can t be. 
blayne. he be. he s go to be marry in a few week. markyn tell me at the judge s this even. it s pukka. 
anthony. you don t say so. holy moses. there ll be a shine in the tent of kedar. 
curtis. regiment cut up rough think you. 
anthony. don t know anything about the regiment. 
mackesy. it be bigamy then. 
anthony. maybe. do you mean to say that you men have forget or be there more charity in the world than i think. 
doone. you don t look pretty when you be try to keep a secret. you bloat. explain. 
anthony. mr. herriott. 
blayne. after a long pause to the room generally. it s my notion that we be a set of fool. 
mackesy. nonsense. that business be knock on the head last season. why young mallard. 
anthony. mallard be a candlestick parade a such. think awhile. recollect last season and the talk then. mallard or no mallard do gaddy ever talk to any other woman. 
curtis. there s something in that. it be slightly noticeable now you come to mention it. but she s at naini tal and he s at simla. 
anthony. he have to go to simla to look after a globetrotter relative of his a person with a title. uncle or aunt. 
blayne. and there he get engage. no law prevent a man grow tire of a woman. 
anthony. except that he mustn t do it till the woman be tire of him. and the herriott woman be not that. 
curtis. she may be now. two month of naini tal work wonder. 
doone. curious thing how some woman carry a fate with them. there be a mr. deegie in the central province whose men invariably fell away and get marry. it become a regular proverb with u when i be down there. i remember three men desperately devote to her and they all one after another take wife. 
curtis. that s odd. now i should have think that mr. deegie s influence would have lead them to take other men s wife. it ought to have make them afraid of the judgment of providence. 
anthony. mr. herriott will make gaddy afraid of something more than the judgment of providence i fancy. 
blayne. suppose thing be a you say he ll be a fool to face her. he ll sit tight at simla. 
anthony. shouldn t be a bite surprise if he go off to naini to explain. he s an unaccountable sort of man and she s likely to be a more than unaccountable woman. 
doone. what make you take her character away so confidently. 
anthony. primum tempus. gaddy be her first and a woman doesn t allow her first man to drop away without expostulation. she justify the first transfer of affection to herself by swear that it be for ever and ever. consequently. 
blayne. consequently we be sit here till past one o clock talk scandal like a set of station cat. anthony it s all your fault. we be perfectly respectable till you come in. go to bed. i m off. good night all. 
curtis. past one. it s past two by jove and here s the khit come for the late charge. just heaven. one two three four five rupee to pay for the pleasure of say that a poor little beast of a woman be no good than she should be. i m ashamed of myself. go to bed you slanderous villain and if i m send to beora to morrow be prepare to hear i m dead before pay my card account. 
the tent of kedar. 
only why should it be with pain at all why must i twixt the leaf of coronal put any kiss of pardon on thy brow. why should the other woman know so much and talk together. such the look and such the smile he use to love with then a now. any wife to any husband. 
scene. a naini tal dinner for thirty four. plate wine crockery and khitmatgars carefully calculate to scale of r. per mensem le exchange. table split lengthways by bank of flower. 
mr. herriott. after conversation ha rise to proper pitch. ah. didn t see you in the crush in the draw room. sotto voce. where have you be all this while pip. 
captain gadsby. turn from regularly ordain dinner partner and settle hock glass. good even. sotto voce. not quite so loud another time. you ve no notion how your voice carry. aside. so much for shirk the write explanation. it ll have to be a verbal one now. sweet prospect. how on earth be i to tell her that i be a respectable engage member of society and it s all over between u. 
mr. h. i ve a heavy score against you. where be you at the monday pop. where be you on tuesday. where be you at the lamonts tennis. i be look everywhere. 
capt. g. for me. oh i be alive somewhere i suppose. aside. it s for minnie s sake but it s go to be dash unpleasant. 
mr. h. have i do anything to offend you. i never mean it if i have. i couldn t help go for a ride with the vaynor man. it be promise a week before you come up. 
capt. g. i didn t know. 
mr. h. it really be. 
capt. g. anything about it i mean. 
mr. h. what ha upset you to day. all these day. you haven t be near me for four whole day nearly one hundred hour. be it kind of you pip. and i ve be look forward so much to your come. 
capt. g. have you. 
mr. h. you know i have. i ve be a foolish a a schoolgirl about it. i make a little calendar and put it in my card case and every time the twelve o clock gun go off i scratch out a square and say. that bring me near to pip. my pip. 
capt. g. with an uneasy laugh. what will mackler think if you neglect him so. 
mr. h. and it hasn t bring you near. you seem farther away than ever. be you sulk about something. i know your temper. 
capt. g. no. 
mr. h. have i grow old in the last few month then. reach forward to bank of flower for menu card. 
mr. h. to partner. oh thank. i didn t see. 
mr. h. keep her arm at full stretch for three second. 
partner on leave. allow me. hand menu card. turn right again. be anything in me change at all. 
capt. g. for goodness sake go on with your dinner. you must eat something. try one of those cutlet arrangement. aside. and i fancy she have good shoulder once upon a time. what an as a man can make of himself. 
mr. h. help herself to a paper frill seven pea some stamp carrot and a spoonful of gravy. that isn t an answer. tell me whether i have do anything. 
capt. g. aside. if it isn t end here there will be a ghastly scene somewhere else. if only i d write to her and stand the racket at long range. to khitmatgar. han. simpkin do. aloud. i ll tell you late on. 
mr. h. tell me now. it must be some foolish misunderstand and you know that there be to be nothing of that sort between u. we_ of all people in the world can t afford it. be it the vaynor man and don t you like to say so. on my honour. 
capt. g. i haven t give the vaynor man a think. 
mr. h. but how d you know that i haven t. 
capt. g. aside. here s my chance and may the devil help me through with it. aloud and measuredly. believe me i do not care how often or how tenderly you think of the vaynor man. 
mr. h. i wonder if you mean that. oh what be the good of squabble and pretend to misunderstand when you be only up for so short a time. pip don t be a stupid. 
follow a pause during which he cross his leave leg over his right and continue his dinner. 
capt. g. in answer to the thunderstorm in her eye. corn my bad. 
mr. h. upon my word you be the very rude man in the world. i ll never do it again. 
capt. g. aside. no i don t think you will. but i wonder what you will do before it s all over. to khitmatgar. thorah ur simpkin do. 
mr. h. well. haven t you the grace to apologise bad man. 
capt. g. aside. i mustn t let it drift back now. trust a woman for be a blind a a bat when she win t see. 
mr. h. i m wait. or would you like me to dictate a form of apology. 
capt. g. desperately. by all mean dictate. 
mr. h. lightly. very well. rehearse your several christian name after me and go on. profess my sincere repentance. 
capt. g. sincere repentance. 
mr. h. for have behave. 
capt. g. aside. at last. i wish to goodness she d look away. for have behave a i have behave and declare that i be thoroughly and heartily sick of the whole business and take this opportunity of make clear my intention of end it now henceforward and for ever. aside. if any one have tell me i should be such a blackguard. 
mr. h. shake a spoonful of potato chip into her plate. that s not a pretty joke. 
capt. g. no. it s a reality. aside. i wonder if smash of this kind be always so raw. 
mr. h. really pip you re get more absurd every day. 
capt. g. i don t think you quite understand me. shall i repeat it. 
mr. h. no. for pity s sake don t do that. it s too terrible even in fun. 
capt. g. i ll let her think it over for a while. but i ought to be horse whip. 
mr. h. i want to know what you mean by what you say just now. 
capt. g. exactly what i say. no le. 
mr. h. but what have i do to deserve it. what have i do. 
capt. g. aside. if she only wouldn t look at me. aloud and very slowly his eye on his plate. d you remember that even in july before the rain break when you say that the end would have to come sooner or late and you wonder for which of u it would come first. 
mr. h. yes. i be only joke. and you swear that a long a there be breath in your body it should never come. and i believe you. 
capt. g. finger menu card. well it ha. that s all. 
a long pause during which mr. h. bow her head and roll the bread twist into little pellet. g. stare at the oleander. 
mr. h. throw back her head and laugh naturally. they train u woman well don t they pip. 
capt. g. brutally touch shirt stud. so far a the expression go. aside. it isn t in her nature to take thing quietly. there ll be an explosion yet. 
mr. h. with a shudder. thank you. b but even red indian allow people to wriggle when they re be torture i believe. slip fan from girdle and fan slowly. rim of fan level with chin. 
partner on leave. very close to night isn t it. you find it too much for you. 
mr. h. oh no not in the least. but they really ought to have punkah even in your cool naini tal oughtn t they. turn drop fan and raise eyebrow. 
capt. g. it s all right. aside. here come the storm. 
mr. h. her eye on the tablecloth. fan ready in right hand. it be very cleverly manage pip and i congratulate you. you swear you never content yourself with merely say a thing you swear that a far a lay in your power you d make my wretched life pleasant for me. and you ve deny me the consolation of break down. i should have do it indeed i should. a woman would hardly have think of this refinement my kind considerate friend. fan guard a before. you have explain thing so tenderly and truthfully too. you haven t speak or write a word of warn and you have let me believe in you till the last minute. you haven t condescend to give me your reason yet. no. a woman could not have manage it half so well. be there many men like you in the world. 
capt. g. i m sure i don t know. to khitmatgar. ohe. simpkin do. 
mr. h. you call yourself a man of the world don t you. do men of the world behave like devil when they do a woman the honour to get tire of her. 
capt. g. i m sure i don t know. don t speak so loud. 
mr. h. keep u respectable o lord whatever happen. don t be afraid of my compromise you. you ve choose your grind far too well and i ve be properly bring up. lower fan. haven t you any pity pip except for yourself. 
capt. g. wouldn t it be rather impertinent of me to say that i m sorry for you. 
mr. h. i think you have say it once or twice before. you re grow very careful of my feeling. my god pip i be a good woman once. you say i be. you ve make me what i be. what be you go to do with me. what be you go to do with me. win t you say that you be sorry. help herself to ice asparagus. 
capt. g. i be sorry for you if you want the pity of such a brute a i be. i m awf ly sorry for you. 
mr. h. rather tame for a man of the world. do you think that that admission clear you. 
capt. g. what can i do. i can only tell you what i think of myself. you can t think bad than that. 
mr. h. oh yes i can. and now will you tell me the reason of all this. remorse. ha bayard be suddenly conscience stricken. 
capt. g. angrily his eye still lower. no. the thing ha come to an end on my side. that s all. mafisch. 
mr. h. that s all. mafisch. a though i be a cairene dragoman. you use to make pretty speech. d you remember when you say. 
capt. g. for heaven s sake don t bring that back. call me anything you like and i ll admit it. 
mr. h. but you don t care to be remind of old lie. if i could hope to hurt you one tenth a much a you have hurt me to night no i wouldn t i couldn t do it liar though you be. 
capt. g. i ve speak the truth. 
mr. h. my dear sir you flat yourself. you have lie over the reason. pip remember that i know you a you don t know yourself. you have be everything to me though you be. fan guard. oh what a contemptible thing it be. and so you be merely tire of me. 
capt. g. since you insist upon my repeat it yes. 
mr. h. lie the first. i wish i know a coarse word. lie seem so ineffectual in your case. the fire ha just die out and there be no fresh one. think for a minute pip if you care whether i despise you more than i do. simply mafisch_ be it. 
capt. g. yes. aside. i think i deserve this. 
mr. h. lie number two. before the next glass choke you tell me her name. 
capt. g. aside. i ll make her pay for drag minnie into the business. aloud. be it likely. 
mr. h. very likely if you think that it would flat your vanity. you d cry my name on the house top to make people turn round. 
capt. g. i wish i have. there would have be an end of this business. 
mr. h. oh no there would not and so you be go to be virtuous and blase_ be you. to come to me and say. i ve do with you. the incident be clo osed. i ought to be proud of have keep such a man so long. 
capt. g. aside. it only remain to pray for the end of the dinner. aloud. you know what i think of myself. 
mr. h. a it s the only person in the world you ever do think of and a i know your mind thoroughly i do. you want to get it all over and oh i can t keep you back. and you re go think of it pip to throw me over for another woman. and you swear that all other woman be pip my pip. she can t care for you a i do. believe me she can t. be it any one that i know. 
capt. g. thank goodness it isn t. aside. i expect a cyclone but not an earthquake. 
mr. h. she can t. be there anything that i wouldn t do for you or haven t do. and to think that i should take this trouble over you know what you be. do you despise me for it. 
capt. g. wipe his mouth to hide a smile. again. it s entirely a work of charity on your part. 
mr. h. ahhh. but i have no right to resent it. be she good look than i. who be it say. 
capt g. no not that. 
mr. h. i ll be more merciful than you be. don t you know that all woman be alike. 
capt. g. aside. then this be the exception that prof the rule. 
mr. h. all of them. i ll tell you anything you like. i will upon my word. they only want the admiration from anybody no matter who anybody. but there be always one man that they care for more than any one else in the world and would sacrifice all the others to. oh do listen. i ve keep the vaynor man trot after me like a poodle and he belief that he be the only man i be interest in. i ll tell you what he say to me. 
capt. g. spare him. aside. i wonder what his version be. 
mr. h. he s be wait for me to look at him all through dinner. shall i do it and you can see what an idiot he look. 
capt. g. but what import the nomination of this gentleman. 
mr. h. watch. send a glance to the vaynor man who try vainly to combine a mouthful of ice pudding a smirk of self satisfaction a glare of intense devotion and the stolidity of a british din countenance. 
capt. g. critically. he doesn t look pretty. why didn t you wait till the spoon be out of his mouth. 
mr. h. to amuse you. she ll make an exhibition of you a i ve make of him. and people will laugh at you. oh pip can t you see that. it s a plain a the noonday sun. you ll be trot about and tell lie and make a fool of like the others. i never make a fool of you do i. 
capt. g. aside. what a clever little woman it be. 
mr. h. well what have you to say. 
capt. g. i feel good. 
mr. h. yes i suppose so after i have come down to your level. i couldn t have do it if i hadn t care for you so much. i have speak the truth. 
capt. g. it doesn t alter the situation. 
mr. h. passionately. then she ha say that she care for you. don t believe her pip. it s a lie a bad a yours to me. 
capt. g. ssssteady. i ve a notion that a friend of yours be look at you. 
mr. h. he. i hate him. he introduce you to me. 
capt. g. aside. and some people would like woman to assist in make the law. introduction to imply condonement. aloud. well you see if you can remember so far back a that i couldn t in common politeness refuse the offer. 
mr. h. in common politeness. we have get beyond that. 
capt. g. aside. old grind mean fresh trouble. aloud. on my honour. 
mr. h. your what. ha ha. 
capt. g. dishonour then. she s not what you imagine. i mean to. 
mr. h. don t tell me anything about her. she win t care for you and when you come back after have make an exhibition of yourself you ll fine me occupy with. 
capt. g. insolently. you couldn t while i be alive. aside. if that doesn t bring her pride to her rescue nothing will. 
mr. h. draw herself up. couldn t do it. i. soften. you re right. i don t believe i could though you be what you be a coward and a liar in grain. 
capt. g. it doesn t hurt so much after your little lecture with demonstration. 
mr. h. one mass of vanity. will nothing ever touch you in this life. there must be a hereafter if it s only for the benefit of but you will have it all to yourself. 
capt. g. under his eyebrow. be you so certain of that. 
mr. h. i shall have have mine in this life. and it will serve me right. 
capt. g. but the admiration that you insist on so strongly a moment ago. aside. oh i be a brute. 
mr. h. fiercely. will that console me for know that you will go to her with the same word the same argument and the the same pet name you use to me. and if she care for you you two will laugh over my story. win t that be punishment heavy enough even for me even for me. and it s all useless. that s another punishment. 
capt. g. feebly. oh come. i m not so low a you think. 
mr. h. not now perhaps but you will be. oh pip if a woman flatter your vanity there s nothing on earth that you would not tell her. and no meanness that you would not do. have i know you so long without know that. 
capt. g. if you can trust me in nothing else and i don t see why i should be trust you can count upon my hold my tongue. 
mr. h. if you deny everything you ve say this even and declare it be all in fun. a long pause. i d trust you. not otherwise. all i ask be don t tell her my name. please don t. a man might forget. a woman never would. look up table and see host begin to collect eye. so it s all end through no fault of mine haven t i behave beautifully. i ve accept your dismissal and you manage it a cruelly a you could and i have make you respect my sex haven t i. arrange glove and fan. i only pray that she ll know you some day a i know you now. i wouldn t be you then for i think even your conceit will be hurt. i hope she ll pay you back the humiliation you ve bring on me. i hope no. i don t. i can t give you up. i must have something to look forward to or i shall go crazy. when it s all over come back to me come back to me and you ll find that you re my pip still. 
capt. g. very clearly. false move and you pay for it. it s a girl. 
mr. h. rise. then it be true. they say but i wouldn t insult you by ask. a girl. i be a girl not very long ago. be good to her pip. i daresay she belief in you. 
go out with an uncertain smile. he watch her through the door and settle into a chair a the men redistribute themselves. 
capt. g. now if there be any power who look after this world will he kindly tell me what i have do. reach out for the claret and half aloud. what have i do. 
with any amazement. 
and be not afraid with any amazement. marriage service. 
scene. a bachelor s bedroom toilet table arrange with unnatural neatness. captain gadsby asleep and snore heavily. time_. a. m. a glorious autumn day at simla. enter delicately captain mafflim of gadsby s regiment. look at sleeper and shake his head murmur poor gaddy. perform violent fantasia with hair brush on chair back. 
capt. m. wake up my sleep beauty. roar. 
uprouse ye then my merry merry men. it be our open day. it be our open da ay. 
gaddy the little dicky bird have be bill and coo for ever so long. and i m here. 
capt. g. sit up and yawn. mornin. this be awf ly good of you old fellow. most awf ly good of you. don t know what i should do without you. on my soul i don t. haven t sleep a wink all night. 
capt. m. i didn t get in till half past eleven. have a look at you then and you seem to be sleep a soundly a a condemn criminal. 
capt. g. jack if you want to make those disgustingly wear out joke you d good go away. with portentous gravity. it s the happy day in my life. 
capt. m. chuckle grimly. not by a very long chalk my son. you re go through some of the most refine torture you ve ever know. but be calm. i be with you. shun. dress. 
capt. g. eh. wha at. 
capt. m. do you suppose that you be your own master for the next twelve hour. if you do_ of course. make for the door. 
capt. g. no. for goodness sake old man don t do that. you ll see me through win t you. i ve be mug up that beastly drill and can t remember a line of it. 
capt. m. overhaul g s uniform. go and tub. don t bother me. i ll give you ten minute to dress in. 
interval fill by the noise a of one splash in the bath room. 
capt. g. emerge from dress room. what time be it. 
capt. m. nearly eleven. 
capt. g. five hour more. o lord. 
capt. m. aside. first sign of funk that. wonder if it s go to spread. aloud. come along to breakfast. 
capt. g. i can t eat anything. i don t want any breakfast. 
capt. m. aside. so early. aloud. captain gadsby i order you to eat breakfast and a dash good breakfast too. none of your bridal air and grace with me. 
lead g. downstairs and stand over him while he eat two chop. 
capt. g. who ha look at his watch thrice in the last five minute. what time be it. 
capt. m. time to come for a walk. light up. 
capt. g. i haven t smoke for ten day and i win t now. take cheroot which m. ha cut for him and blow smoke through his nose luxuriously. we aren t go down the mall be we. 
capt. m. aside. they re all alike in these stage. aloud. no my vestal. we re go along the quiet road we can find. 
capt. g. any chance of see her. 
capt. m. innocent. no. come along and if you want me for the final obsequies don t cut my eye out with your stick. 
capt. g. spin round. i say isn t she the dear creature that ever walk. what s the time. what come after wilt thou take this woman. 
capt. m you go for the ring. r clect it ll be on the top of my right hand little ringer and just be careful how you draw it off because i shall have the verger s fee somewhere in my glove. 
capt. g. walk forward hastily. d the verger. come along. it s past twelve and i haven t see her since yesterday even. spin round again. she s an absolute angel jack and she s a dash deal too good for me. look here doe she come up the aisle on my arm or how. 
capt. m. if i think that there be the least chance of your remember anything for two consecutive minute i d tell you. stop passaging about like that. 
capt. g. halt in the middle of the road. i say jack. 
capt. m. keep quiet for another ten minute if you can you lunatic. and walk. 
the two tramp at five mile an hour for fifteen minute. 
capt. g. what s the time. how about that curse wed cake and the slipper. they don t throw em about in church do they. 
capt. m. in variably. the padre lead off with his boot. 
capt. g. confound your silly soul. don t make fun of me. i can t stand it and i win t. 
capt. m. untroubled. so ooo old horse. you ll have to sleep for a couple of hour this afternoon. 
capt. g. spin round. i m not go to be treat like a dash child. understand that. 
capt. m. aside. nerve go to fiddle string. what a day we re have. tenderly put his hand on g s. shoulder. my david how long have you know this jonathan. would i come up here to make a fool of you after all these year. 
capt. g. penitently. i know i know jack but i m a upset a i can be. don t mind what i say. just hear me run through the drill and see if i ve get it all right. 
to have and to hold for good or bad a it be in the begin be now and ever shall be world without end so help me god. amen. 
capt. m. suffocate with suppress laughter. yes. that s about the gist of it. i ll prompt if you get into a hat. 
capt. g. earnestly. yes you ll stick by me jack win t you. i m awf ly happy but i don t mind tell you that i m in a blue funk. 
capt. m. gravely. be you. i should never have notice it. you don t look like it. 
capt. g. don t i. that s all right. spin round. on my soul and honour jack she s the sweet little angel that ever come down from the sky. there isn t a woman on earth fit to speak to her. 
capt. m. aside. and this be old gaddy. aloud. go on if it relief you. 
capt. g. you can laugh. that s all you wild ass of bachelor be fit for. 
capt. m. drawl. you never would wait for the troop to come up. you aren t quite marry yet y know. 
capt. g. ugh. that remind me. i don t believe i shall be able to get into my boot. let s go home and try em on. hurry forward. 
capt. m. wouldn t be in your shoe for anything that asia ha to offer. 
capt. g. spin round. that just show your hideous blackness of soul your dense stupidity your brutal narrow mindedness. there s only one fault about you. you re the best of good fellow and i don t know what i should have do without you but you aren t marry. wag his head gravely. take a wife jack. 
capt. m. with a face like a wall. ya a. whose for choice. 
capt. g. if you re go to be a blackguard i m go on what s the time. 
capt. m. hum. 
an since twas very clear we drink only ginger beer faith there must ha be some stingo in the ginger. 
come back you maniac. i m go to take you home and you re go to lie down. 
capt. g. what on earth do i want to lie down for. 
capt. m. give me a light from your cheroot and see. 
capt. g. watch cheroot butt quiver like a tune fork. sweet state i m in. 
capt. m. you be. i ll get you a peg and you ll go to sleep. 
they return and m. compound a four finger peg. 
capt. g. o bus. bus. it ll make me a drink a an owl. 
capt. m. curious thing twon t have the slight effect on you. drink it off chuck yourself down there and go to bye bye. 
capt. g. it s absurd. i shan t sleep. i know i shan t. 
fall into heavy doze at end of seven minute. capt. m. watch him tenderly. 
capt. m. poor old gaddy. i ve see a few turn off before but never one who go to the gallows in this condition. can t tell how it affect em though. it s the thoroughbred that sweat when they re back into double harness. and that s the man who go through the gun at amdheran like a devil possess of devil. lean over g. but this be bad than the gun old pal bad than the gun isn t it. g. t_urns in his sleep and m. touch him clumsily on the forehead. poor dear old gaddy. go like the rest of em go like the rest of em friend that sticketh close than a brother eight year. dash bite of a slip of a girl eight week. and where s your friend. smoke disconsolately till church clock strike three. 
capt. m. up with you. get into your kit. 
capt. g. already. isn t it too soon. hadn t i good have a shave. 
capt. m. no. you re all right. aside. he d chip his chin to piece. 
capt. g. what s the hurry. 
capt. m. you ve get to be there first. 
capt. g. to be star at. 
capt. m. exactly. you re part of the show. where s the burnisher. your spur be in a shameful state. 
capt. g. gruffly. jack i be damn if you shall do that for me. 
capt. m. more gruffly. dry up and get dress. if i choose to clean your spur you re under my order. 
capt. g. dress. m. follow suit. 
capt. m. critically walk round. m yes you ll do. only don t look so like a criminal. ring glove fee that s all right for me. let your moustache alone. now if the pony be ready we ll go. 
capt. g. nervously. it s much too soon. let s light up. let s have a peg. let s. 
capt. m. let s make bally ass of ourselves. 
bell. without. 
good peo ple all to prayer we call. 
capt. m. there go the bell. come on unless you d rather not. they ride off. 
bell. 
we honour the king and bride joy do bring good tide we tell and ring the dead s knell. 
capt. g. dismount at the door of the church. i say aren t we much too soon. there be no end of people inside. i say aren t we much too late. stick by me jack. what the devil do i do. 
capt. m. strike an attitude at the head of the aisle and wait for her. g. groan a m. wheel him into position before three hundred eye. 
capt. m. imploringly. gaddy if you love me for pity s sake for the honour of the regiment stand up. chuck yourself into your uniform. look like a man. i ve get to speak to the padre a minute. g. break into a gentle perspiration. if you wipe your face i ll never be your best man again. stand up. g. tremble visibly. 
capt. m. return. she s come now. look out when the music start. there s the organ begin to clack. 
bride step out of rickshaw at church door. g. catch a glimpse of her and take heart. 
organ. 
the voice that breathe o er eden that early marriage day the primal marriage bless it hath not pass away. 
capt. m. watch g. by jove. he be look well. didn t think he have it in him. 
capt. g. how long doe this hymn go on for. 
capt. m. it will be over directly. anxiously. begin to bleach and gulp. hold on gaddy and think o the regiment. 
capt. g. measuredly. i say there s a big brown lizard crawl up that wall. 
capt. m. my saint mother. the last stage of collapse. 
bride come up to leave of altar lift her eye once to g. who be suddenly smite mad. 
capt. g. to himself again and again. little featherweight s a woman a woman. and i think she be a little girl. 
capt. m. in a whisper. form the halt inward wheel. 
capt. g. obey mechanically and the ceremony proceed. 
padre. only unto her a long a ye both shall live. 
capt. g. his throat useless. ha hmmm. 
capt. m. say you will or you win t. there s no second deal here. 
bride give response with perfect coolness and be give away by the father. 
capt. g. think to show his learn. jack give me away now quick. 
capt. m. you re give yourself away quite enough. her right hand man. repeat. repeat. theodore philip. have you forget your own name. 
capt. g. stumble through affirmation which bride repeat without a tremor. 
capt. m. now the ring. follow the padre. don t pull off my glove. here it be. great cupid he s find his voice. 
g. repeat troth in a voice to be hear to the end of the church and turn on his heel. 
capt. m. desperately. rein back. back to your troop. tisn t half legal yet. 
padre. join together let no man put asunder. 
capt. g. paralyse with fear jib after bless. 
capt. m. quickly. on your own front one length. take her with you. i don t come. you ve nothing to say. capt. g. jingle up to altar. 
capt. m. in a pierce rattle mean to be a whisper. kneel you stiff neck ruffian. kneel. 
padre. whose daughter be ye so long a ye do well and be not afraid with any amazement. 
capt. m. dismiss. break off. leave wheel. all troop to vestry. they sign. 
capt. m. kiss her gaddy. 
capt. g. rub the ink into his glove. eh. wha at. 
capt. m. take one pace to bride. if you don t i shall. 
capt. g. interpose an arm. not this journey. 
general kiss in which capt. g. be pursue by unknown female. 
capt. g. faintly to m. this be hades. can i wipe my face now. 
capt. m. my responsibility ha end. good ask missis gadsby. 
capt. g. wince a though shoot and procession be mendelssohned out of church to house where usual torture take place over the wed cake. 
capt. m. at table. up with you gaddy. they expect a speech. 
capt. g. after three minute agony. ha hmmm. thunder of applause. 
capt. m. doocid good for a first attempt. now go and change your kit while mamma be weep over the missus. capt. g. disappear. capt. m. start up tear his hair. it s not half legal. where be the shoe. get an ayah. 
ayah. missie captain sahib do go band karo all the jutis. 
capt. m. brandish scabbarded sword. woman produce those shoe. some one lend me a bread knife. we mustn t crack gaddy s head more than it be. slice heel off white satin slipper and put slipper up his sleeve. where be the bride. to the company at large. be tender with that rice. it s a heathen custom. give me the big bag. 
bride slip out quietly into rickshaw and depart towards the sunset. 
capt. m. in the open. steal away by jove. so much the bad for gaddy. here he be. now gaddy this ll be lively than amdheran. where s your horse. 
capt. g. furiously see that the woman be out of earshot. where the be my wife. 
capt. m. half way to mahasu by this time. you ll have to ride like young lochinvar. 
horse come round on his hind leg. refuse to let g. handle him. 
capt. g. oh you will will you. get round you brute you hog you beast. get round. 
wrench horse s head over nearly break low jaw. swing himself into saddle and send home both spur in the midst of a spatter gale of best patna. 
capt. m. for your life and your love ride gaddy. and god bless you. 
throw half a pound of rice at g. who disappear bow forward on the saddle in a cloud of sunlit dust. 
capt. m. i ve lose old gaddy. light cigarette and stroll off sing absently. 
you may carve it on his tombstone you may cut it on his card that a young man marry be a young man mar. 
miss deercourt. from her horse. really captain mafflin. you be more plain speak than polite. 
capt. m. aside. they say marriage be like cholera. wonder who ll be the next victim. 
white satin slipper slide from his sleeve and fall at his foot. leave wonder. 
the garden of eden. 
and ye shall be a god. 
scene. thymy grass plot at back of the mahasu dak bungalow overlook little wooded valley. on the leave glimpse of the dead forest of fagoo. on the right simla hill. in background line of the snow. captain gadsby now three week a husband be smoke the pipe of peace on a rug in the sunshine. banjo and tobacco pouch on rug. overhead the fagoo eagle. mr. g. come out of bungalow. 
mr. g. my husband. 
capt. g. lazily with intense enjoyment. eh wha at. say that again. 
mr. g. i ve write to mamma and tell her that we shall be back on the th. 
capt. g. do you give her my love. 
mr. g. no i keep all that for myself. sit down by his side. i think you wouldn t mind. 
capt. g. with mock sternness. i object awf ly. how do you know that it be yours to keep. 
mr. g. i guess phil. 
capt. g. rapturously. light tle featherweight. 
mr. g. i win t be call those sport pet name bad boy. 
capt. g. you ll be call anything i choose. ha it ever occur to you madam that you be my wife. 
mr. g. it ha. i haven t cease wonder at it yet. 
capt. g. nor i. it seem so strange. and yet somehow it doesn t. confidently. you see it could have be no one else. 
mr. g. softly. no. no one else for me or for you. it must have be all arrange from the begin. phil tell me again what make you care for me. 
capt. g. how could i help it. you be you_ you know. 
mr. g. do you ever want to help it. speak the truth. 
capt. g. a twinkle in his eye. i do darling just at the first. but only at the very first. chuckle. i call you stoop low and i ll whisper a little beast. ho. ho. ho. 
mr. g. take him by the moustache and make him sit up. a little beast. stop laugh over your crime. and yet you have the the awful cheek to propose to me. 
capt. g. i d change my mind then. and you weren t a little beast any more. 
mr. g. thank you sir. and when be i ever. 
capt. g. never. but that first day when you give me tea in that peach colour muslin gown thing you look you do indeed dear such an absurd little mite. and i didn t know what to say to you. 
mr. g. twist moustache. so you say little beast. upon my word sir. i call you a crrrreature but i wish now i have call you something bad. 
capt. g. very meekly. i apologise but you re hurt me awf ly. interlude. you re welcome to torture me again on those term. 
mr. g. oh why do you let me do it. 
capt. g. look across valley. no reason in particular but if it amuse you or do you any good you might wipe those dear little boot of yours on me. 
mr. g. stretch out her hand. don t. oh don t. philip my king please don t talk like that. it s how i feel. you re so much too good for me. so much too good. 
capt. g. me. i m not fit to put my arm round you. put it round. 
mr. g. yes you be. but i what have i ever do. 
capt. g. give me a wee bite of your heart haven t you my queen. 
mr. g. that s nothing. any one would do that. they cou couldn t help it. 
capt. g. pussy you ll make me horribly conceited. just when i be begin to feel so humble too. 
mr. g. humble. i don t believe it s in your character. 
capt. g. what do you know of my character impertinence. 
mr. g. ah but i shall shan t i phil. i shall have time in all the year and year to come to know everything about you. and there will be no secret between u. 
capt. g. little witch. i believe you know me thoroughly already. 
mr. g. i think i can guess. you re selfish. 
capt. g. yes. 
mr. g. foolish. 
capt. g. very. 
mr. g. and a dear. 
capt. g. that be a my lady plea. 
mr. g. then your lady be please. a pause. d you know that we re two solemn serious grow up people. 
capt. g. tilt her straw hat over her eye. you grow up. pooh. you re a baby. 
mr. g. and we re talk nonsense. 
capt. g. then let s go on talk nonsense. i rather like it. pussy i ll tell you a secret. promise not to repeat. 
mr. g. ye e. only to you. 
capt. g. i love you. 
mr. g. re ally. for how long. 
capt. g. for ever and ever. 
mr. g. that s a long time. 
capt. g. think so. it s the short i can do with. 
mr. g. you re get quite clever. 
capt. g. i m talk to you. 
mr. g. prettily turn. hold up your stupid old head and i ll pay you for it. 
capt. g. affect supreme contempt. take it yourself if you want it. 
mr. g. i ve a great mind to and i will. take it and be repay with interest. 
capt. g. little featherweight it s my opinion that we be a couple of idiot. 
mr. g. we re the only two sensible people in the world. ask the eagle. he s come by. 
capt. g. ah. i dare say he s see a good many sensible people at mahasu. they say that those bird live for ever so long. 
mr. g. how long. 
capt. g. a hundred and twenty year. 
mr. g. a hundred and twenty year. o oh. and in a hundred and twenty year where will these two sensible people be. 
capt. g. what doe it matter so long a we be together now. 
mr. g. look round the horizon. yes. only you and i i and you in the whole wide wide world until the end. see the line of the snow. how big and quiet the hill look. d you think they care for u. 
capt. g. can t say i ve consult em particularly. i care and that s enough for me. 
mr. g. draw near to him. yes now but afterwards. what s that little black blur on the snow. 
capt. g. a snowstorm forty mile away. you ll see it move a the wind carry it across the face of that spur and then it will be all go. 
mr. g. and then it will be all go. shiver. 
capt. g. anxiously. not chill pet be you. good let me get your cloak. 
mr. g. no. don t leave me phil. stay here. i believe i be afraid. oh why be the hill so horrid. phil promise me promise me that you ll always love me. 
capt. g. what s the trouble darling. i can t promise any more than i have. but i ll promise that again and again if you like. 
mr. g. her head on his shoulder. say it then say it. n no don t. the the eagle would laugh. recover. my husband you ve marry a little goose. 
capt. g. very tenderly. have i. i be content whatever she be so long a she be mine. 
mr. g. quickly. because she be yours or because she be me mineself. 
capt. g. because she be both. piteously. i m not clever dear and i don t think i can make myself understand properly. 
mr. g. i understand. pip will you tell me something. 
capt. g. anything you like. aside. i wonder what s come now. 
mr. g. haltingly her eye lower. you tell me once in the old day century and century ago that you have be engage before. i didn t say anything then. 
capt. g. innocently. why not. 
mr. g. raise her eye to his. because because i be afraid of lose you my heart. but now tell about it please. 
capt. g. there s nothing to tell. i be awf ly old then nearly two and twenty and she be quite that. 
mr. g. that mean she be old than you. i shouldn t like her to have be young. well. 
capt. g. well i fancy myself in love and rave about a bite and oh yes by jove. i make up poetry. ha. ha. 
mr. g. you never write any for me. what happen. 
capt. g. i come out here and the whole thing go phut. she write to say that there have be a mistake and then she marry. 
mr. g. do she care for you much. 
capt. g. no. at least she didn t show it a far a i remember. 
mr. g. a far a you remember. do you remember her name. hear it and bow her head. thank you my husband. 
capt. g. who but you have the right. now little featherweight have you ever be mix up in any dark and dismal tragedy. 
mr. g. if you call me mr. gadsby p rap i ll tell. 
capt. g. throw parade rasp into his voice. mr. gadsby confess. 
mr. g. good heaven phil. i never know that you could speak in that terrible voice. 
capt. g. you don t know half my accomplishment yet. wait till we be settle in the plain and i ll show you how i bark at my troop. you be go to say darling. 
mr. g. i i don t like to after that voice. tremulously. phil never you dare to speak to me in that tone whatever i may do. 
capt. g. my poor little love. why you re shake all over. i be so sorry. of course i never mean to upset you. don t tell me anything. i m a brute. 
mr. g. no you aren t and i will tell there be a man. 
capt. g. lightly. be there. lucky man. 
mr. g. in a whisper. and i think i care for him. 
capt. g. still lucky man. well. 
mr. g. and i think i care for him and i didn t and then you come and i care for you very very much indeed. that s all. face hide. you aren t angry be you. 
capt. g. angry. not in the least. aside. good lord what have i do to deserve this angel. 
mr. g. aside. and he never ask for the name. how funny men be. but perhaps it s a well. 
capt. g. that man will go to heaven because you once think you care for him. wonder if you ll ever drag me up there. 
mr. g. firmly. shan t go if you don t. 
capt. g. thank. i say pussy i don t know much about your religious belief. you be bring up to believe in a heaven and all that weren t you. 
mr. g. yes. but it be a pincushion heaven with hymn book in all the pew. 
capt. g. wag his head with intense conviction. never mind. there be a pukka heaven. 
mr. g. where do you bring that message from my prophet. 
capt. g. here. because we care for each other. so it s all right. 
mr. g. a a troop of langur crash through the branch. so it s all right. but darwin say that we come from those. 
capt. g. placidly. ah. darwin be never in love with an angel. that settle it. sstt you brute. monkey indeed. you shouldn t read those book. 
mr. g. fold her hand. if it plea my lord the king to issue proclamation. 
capt. g. don t dear one. there be no order between u. only i d rather you didn t. they lead to nothing and bother people s head. 
mr. g. like your first engagement. 
capt. g. with an immense calm. that be a necessary evil and lead to you. be you nothing. 
mr. g. not so very much be i. 
capt. g. all this world and the next to me. 
mr. g. very softly. my boy of boy. shall i tell you something. 
capt. g. yes if it s not dreadful about other men. 
mr. g. it s about my own bad little self. 
capt. g. then it must be good. go on dear. 
mr. g. slowly. i don t know why i m tell you pip. but if ever you marry again. interlude. take your hand from my mouth or i ll bite. in the future then remember i don t know quite how to put it. 
capt. g. snort indignantly. don t try. marry again indeed. 
mr. g. i must. listen my husband. never never never tell your wife anything that you do not wish her to remember and think over all her life. because a woman yes i be a woman can t forget. 
capt. g. by jove how do you know that. 
mr. g. confusedly. i don t. i m only guess. i be i be a silly little girl. but i feel that i know so much oh so very much more than you dear. to begin with i m your wife. 
capt. g. so i have be lead to believe. 
mr. g. and i shall want to know every one of your secret to share everything you know with you. stare round desperately. 
capt. g. so you shall dear so you shall but don t look like that. 
mr. g. for your own sake don t stop me phil. i shall never talk to you in this way again. you must not tell me. at least not now. late on when i m an old matron it win t matter but if you love me be very good to me now. for this part of my life i shall never forget. have i make you understand. 
capt. g. i think so child. have i say anything yet that you disapprove of. 
mr. g. will you be very angry. that that voice and what you say about the engagement. 
capt. g. but you ask to be tell that darling. 
mr. g. and that s why you shouldn t have tell me. you must be the judge and oh pip dearly a i love you i shan t be able to help you. i shall hind you and you must judge in spite of me. 
capt. g. meditatively. we have a great many thing to find out together god help u both say so pussy but we shall understand each other good every day. and i think i m begin to see now. how in the world do you come to know just the importance of give me just that lead. 
mr. g. i ve tell you that i don t know. only somehow it seem that in all this new life i be be guide for your sake a well a my own. 
capt. g. aside. then mafflin be right. they know and we we re blind all of u. lightly. get a little beyond our depth dear aren t we. i ll remember and if i fail let me be punish a i deserve. 
mr. g. there shall be no punishment. we ll start into life together from here you and i and no one else. 
capt. g. and no one else. a pause. your eyelash be all wet sweet. be there ever such a quaint little absurdity. 
mr. g. be there ever such nonsense talk before. 
capt. g. knock the ash out of his pipe. tisn t what we say it s what we don t say that help. and it s all the profound philosophy. but no one would understand even if it be put into a book. 
mr. g. the idea. no only we ourselves or people like ourselves if there be any people like u. 
capt. g. magisterially. all people not like ourselves be blind idiot. 
mr. g. wipe her eye. do you think then that there be any people a happy a we be. 
capt. g. must be unless we ve appropriate all the happiness in the world. 
mr. g. look towards simla. poor dear. just fancy if we have. 
capt. g. then we ll hang on to the whole show for it s a great deal too jolly to lose eh wife o mine. 
mr. g. o pip. pip. how much of you be a solemn marry man and how much a horrid slangy schoolboy. 
capt. g. when you tell me how much of you be eighteen last birthday and how much be a old a the sphinx and twice a mysterious perhaps i ll attend to you. lend me that banjo. the spirit moveth me to yowl at the sunset. 
mr. g. mind. it s not tune. ah. how that jar. 
capt. g. turn peg. it s amazingly difficult to keep a banjo to proper pitch. 
mr. g. it s the same with all musical instrument. what shall it be. 
capt. g. vanity and let the hill hear. sing through the first and half of the second verse. turn to mr. g. now chorus. sing pussy. 
both together. con brio to the horror of the monkey who be settle for the night. 
vanity all be vanity say wisdom scorn me i clasp my true love s tender hand and answer frank and free ee. 
if this be vanity who d be wise. if this be vanity who d be wise. if this be vanity who d be wi ise. crescendo. vanity let it be. 
mr. g. defiantly to the gray of the even sky. vanity let it be. 
echo. from the fagoo spur. let it be. 
fatima. 
and you may go into every room of the house and see everything that be there but into the blue room you must not go. the story of blue beard. 
scene. the gadsbys bungalow in the plain. time a. m. on a sunday morning. captain gadsby in his shirt sleeve be bend over a complete set of hussar s equipment from saddle to picket rope which be neatly spread over the floor of his study. he be smoke an unclean briar and his forehead be pucker with think. 
capt. g. to himself finger a headstall. jack s an as. there s enough brass on this to load a mule and if the american know anything about anything it can be cut down to a bite only. don t want the water bridle either. humbug. half a dozen set of chain and pulley for one horse. rot. scratch his head. now let s consider it all over from the begin. by jove i ve forget the scale of weight. ne er mind. keep the bite only and eliminate every bos from the crupper to breastplate. no breastplate at all. simple leather strap across the breast like the russian. hi. jack never think of that. 
mr. g. enter hastily her hand bind in a cloth. oh pip i ve scald my hand over that horrid horrid tiparee jam. 
capt. g. absently. eh. wha at. 
mr. g. with round eye reproach. i ve scald it aw fully. aren t you sorry. and i do so want that jam to jam properly. 
capt. g. poor little woman. let me kiss the place and make it well. unroll bandage. you small sinner. where s that scald. i can t see it. 
mr. g. on the top of the little finger. there. it s a most normous big burn. 
capt. g. kiss little finger. baby. let hyder look after the jam. you know i don t care for sweet. 
mr. g. in deed. pip. 
capt. g. not of that kind anyhow. and now run along minnie and leave me to my own base device. i m busy. 
mr. g. calmly settle herself in long chair. so i see. what a mess you re make. why have you bring all that smelly leather stuff into the house. 
capt. g. to play with. do you mind dear. 
mr. g. let me play too. i d like it. 
capt. g. i m afraid you wouldn t pussy don t you think that jam will burn or whatever it be that jam doe when it s not look after by a clever little housekeeper. 
mr. g. i think you say hyder could attend to it. i leave him in the veranda stir when i hurt myself so. 
capt. g. his eye return to the equipment. po oor little woman. three pound four and seven be three eleven and that can be cut down to two eight with just a lee tle care without weaken anything. farriery be all rot in incompetent hand. what s the use of a shoe case when a man s scout. he can t stick it on with a lick like a stamp the shoe. skittle. 
mr. g. what s skittle. pah. what be this leather clean with. 
capt. g. cream and champagne and look here dear do you really want to talk to me about anything important. 
mr. g. no. i ve do my account and i think i d like to see what you re do. 
capt. g. well love now you ve see and would you mind. that be to say minnie i really be busy. 
mr. g. you want me to go. 
capt. g. yes dear for a little while. this tobacco will hang in your dress and saddlery doesn t interest you. 
mr. g. everything you do interest me pip. 
capt. g. yes i know i know dear. i ll tell you all about it some day when i ve put a head on this thing. in the meantime. 
mr. g. i m to be turn out of the room like a troublesome child. 
capt. g. no o. i don t mean that exactly. but you see i shall be tramp up and down shift these thing to and fro and i shall be in your way. don t you think so. 
mr. g. can t i lift them about. let me try. reach forward to trooper s saddle. 
capt. g. good gracious child don t touch it. you ll hurt yourself. pick up saddle. little girl aren t expect to handle numdah. now where would you like it put. hold saddle above his head. 
mr. g. a break in her voice. nowhere. pip how good you be and how strong. oh what s that ugly red streak inside your arm. 
capt. g. lower saddle quickly. nothing. it s a mark of sort. aside. and jack s come to tiffin with his notion all cut and dry. 
mr. g. i know it s a mark but i ve never see it before. it run all up the arm. what be it. 
capt. g. a cut if you want to know. 
mr. g. want to know. of course i do. i can t have my husband cut to piece in this way. how do it come. be it an accident. tell me pip. 
capt. g. grimly. no. twasn t an accident. i get it from a man in afghanistan. 
mr. g. in action. oh pip and you never tell me. 
capt. g. i d forget all about it. 
mr. g. hold up your arm. what a horrid ugly scar. be you sure it doesn t hurt now. how do the man give it you. 
capt. g. desperately look at his watch. with a knife. i come down old van loo do that s to say and fell on my leg so i couldn t run. and then this man come up and begin chop at me a i sprawl. 
mr. g. oh don t don t. that s enough. well what happen. 
capt. g. i couldn t get to my holster and mafflin come round the corner and stop the performance. 
mr. g. how. he s such a lazy man i don t believe he do. 
capt. g. don t you. i don t think the man have much doubt about it. jack cut his head off. 
mr. g. cut his head off. with one blow a they say in the book. 
capt. g. i m not sure. i be too interest in myself to know much about it. anyhow the head be off and jack be punch old van loo in the rib to make him get up. now you know all about it dear and now. 
mr. g. you want me to go of course. you never tell me about this though i ve be marry to you for ever so long. and you never would have tell me if i hadn t find out. and you never do tell me anything about yourself or what you do or what you take an interest in. 
capt. g. darling i m always with you aren t i. 
mr. g. always in my pocket you be go to say. i know you be. but you be always think away from me. 
capt. g. try to hide a smile. be i. i wasn t aware of it. i m awf ly sorry. 
mr. g. piteously. oh don t make fun of me. pip you know what i mean. when you be read one of those thing about cavalry by that idiotic prince why doesn t he be a prince instead of a stable boy. 
capt. g. prince kraft a stable boy oh my aunt. never mind dear. you be go to say. 
mr. g. it doesn t matter. you don t care for what i say. only only you get up and walk about the room star in front of you and then mafflin come in to dinner and after i m in the draw room i can hear you and him talk and talk and talk about thing i can t understand and oh i get so tire and feel so lonely. i don t want to complain and be a trouble pip. but i do indeed i do. 
capt. g. my poor darling. i never think of that. why don t you ask some nice people in to dinner. 
mr. g. nice people. where be i to find them. horrid frump. and if i did_ i shouldn t be amuse. you know i only want you. 
capt. g. and you have me surely sweetheart. 
mr. g. i have not. pip why don t you take me into your life. 
capt. g. more than i do. that would be difficult dear. 
mr. g. yes i suppose it would to you. i m no help to you no companion to you. and you like to have it so. 
capt. g. aren t you a little unreasonable pussy. 
mr. g. stamp her foot. i m the most reasonable woman in the world when i m treat properly. 
capt. g. and since when have i be treat you improperly. 
mr. g. always and since the begin. you know you have. 
capt. g. i don t. but i m will to be convince. 
mr. g. point to saddlery. there. 
capt. g. how do you mean. 
mr. g. what doe all that mean. why be i not to be tell. be it so precious. 
capt. g. i forget it exact government value just at present. it mean that it be a great deal too heavy. 
mr. g. then why do you touch it. 
capt. g. to make it light. see here little love i ve one notion and jack ha another but we be both agree that all this equipment be about thirty pound too heavy. the thing be how to cut it down without weaken any part of it and at the same time allow the trooper to carry everything he want for his own comfort sock and shirt and thing of that kind. 
mr. g. why doesn t he pack them in a little trunk. 
capt. g. kiss her. oh you darling. pack them in a little trunk indeed. hussar don t carry trunk and it s a most important thing to make the horse do all the carry. 
mr. g. but why need you bother about it. you re not a trooper. 
capt. g. no. but i command a few score of him. and equipment be nearly everything in these day. 
mr. g. more than me. 
capt. g. stupid. of course not. but it s a matter that i m tremendously interest in because if i or jack or i and jack work out some sort of light saddlery and all that it s possible that we may get it adopt. 
mr. g. how. 
capt. g. sanction at home where they will make a seal pattern a pattern that all the saddler must copy and so it will be use by all the regiment. 
mr. g. and that interest you. 
capt. g. it s part of my profession y know and my profession be a good deal to me. everything in a soldier s equipment be important and if we can improve that equipment so much the good for the soldier and for u. 
mr. g. who s u. 
capt. g. jack and i. only jack s notion be too radical. what s that big sigh for minnie. 
mr. g. oh nothing and you ve keep all this a secret from me. why. 
capt. g. not a secret exactly dear. i didn t say anything about it to you because i didn t think it would amuse you. 
mr. g. and be i only make to be amuse. 
capt. g. no of course. i merely mean that it couldn t interest you. 
mr. g. it s your work and and if you d let me i d count all these thing up. if they be too heavy you know by how much they be too heavy and you must have a list of thing make out to your scale of lightness and. 
capt. g. i have get both scale somewhere in my head. but it s hard to tell how light you can make a headstall for instance until you ve actually have a model make. 
mr. g. but if you read out the list i could copy it down and pin it up there just above your table. wouldn t that do. 
capt. g. it would be awf ly nice dear but it would be give you trouble for nothing. i can t work that way. i go by rule of thumb. i know the present scale of weight and the other one the one that i m try to work to will shift and vary so much that i couldn t be certain even if i write it down. 
mr. g. i m so sorry. i think i might help. be there anything else that i could be of use in. 
capt. g. look round the room. i can t think of anything. you re always help me you know. 
mr. g. be i. how. 
capt. g. you be you of course and a long a you re near me i can t explain exactly but it s in the air. 
mr. g. and that s why you want to send me away. 
capt. g. that s only when i m try to do work grubby work like this. 
mr. g. mafflin s good then isn t he. 
capt. g. rashly. of course he be. jack and i have be think along the same groove for two or three year about this equipment. it s our hobby and it may really be useful some day. 
mr. g. after a pause. and that s all that you have away from me. 
capt. g. it isn t very far away from you now. take care the oil on that bite doesn t come off on your dress. 
mr. g. i wish i wish so much that i could really help you. i believe i could if i leave the room. but that s not what i mean. 
capt. g. aside. give me patience. i wish she would go. aloud. i assure you you can t do anything for me minnie and i must really settle down to this. where s my pouch. 
mr. g. cross to write table. here you be bear. what a mess you keep your table in. 
capt. g. don t touch it. there s a method in my madness though you mightn t think of it. 
mr. g. at table. i want to look do you keep account pip. 
capt. g. bend over saddlery. of a sort. be you rummage among the troop paper. be careful. 
mr. g. why. i shan t disturb anything. good gracious. i have no idea that you have anything to do with so many sick horse. 
capt. g. wish i hadn t but they insist on fall sick. minnie if i be you i really should not investigate those paper. you may come across something that you win t like. 
mr. g. why will you always treat me like a child. i know i m not displace the horrid thing. 
capt. g. resignedly. very well then. don t blame me if anything happen. play with the table and let me go on with the saddlery. slip hand into trouser pocket. oh the deuce. 
mr. g. her back to g. what s that for. 
capt. g. nothing. aside. there s not much in it but i wish i d tear it up. 
mr. g. turn over content of table. i know you ll hate me for this. but i do want to see what your work be like. a pause. pip what be farcy bud. 
capt. g. hah. would you really like to know. they aren t pretty thing. 
mr. g. this journal of veterinary science say they be of absorb interest. tell me. 
capt. g. aside. it may turn her attention. 
give a long and designedly loathsome account of glanders and farcy. 
mr. g. oh that s enough. don t go on. 
capt. g. but you want to know then these thing suppurate and matterate and spread. 
mr. g. pip you re make me sick. you re a horrid disgust schoolboy. 
capt. g. on his knee among the bridle. you ask to be tell. it s not my fault if you worry me into talk about horror. 
mr. g. why didn t you say no. 
capt. g. good heaven child. have you come in here simply to bully me. 
mr. g. i bully you. how could i. you re so strong. hysterically. strong enough to pick me up and put me outside the door and leave me there to cry. aren t you. 
capt. g. it seem to me that you re an irrational little baby. be you quite well. 
mr. g. do i look ill. return to table. who be your lady friend with the big gray envelope and the fat monogram outside. 
capt. g. aside. then it wasn t lock up confound it. aloud. god make her therefore let her pas for a woman. you remember what farcy bud be like. 
mr. g. show envelope. this ha nothing to do with them. i m go to open it. may i. 
capt. g. certainly if you want to. i d sooner you didn t though. i don t ask to look at your letter to the deercourt girl. 
mr. g. you d good not sir. take letter from envelope. now may i look. if you say no i shall cry. 
capt. g. you ve never cry in my knowledge of you and i don t believe you could. 
mr. g. i feel very like it to day pip. don t be hard on me. read letter. it begin in the middle without any dear captain gadsby or anything. how funny. 
capt. g. aside. no it s not dear captain gadsby or anything now. how funny. 
mr. g. what a strange letter. read. and so the moth ha come too near the candle at last and ha be sing into shall i say respectability. i congratulate him and hope he will be a happy a he deserve to be. what doe that mean. be she congratulate you about our marriage. 
capt. g. yes i suppose so. 
mr. g. still read letter. she seem to be a particular friend of yours. 
capt. g. yes. she be an excellent matron of sort a mr. herriott wife of a colonel herriott. i use to know some of her people at home long ago before i come out. 
mr. g. some colonel wife be young a young a me. i know one who be young. 
capt. g. then it couldn t have be mr. herriott. she be old enough to have be your mother dear. 
mr. g. i remember now. mr. scargill be talk about her at the duffins tennis before you come for me on tuesday. captain mafflin say she be a dear old woman. do you know i think mafflin be a very clumsy man with his foot. 
capt. g. aside. good old jack. aloud. why dear. 
mr. g. he have put his cup down on the grind then and he literally step into it. some of the tea spirt over my dress the gray one. i mean to tell you about it before. 
capt. g. aside. there be the making of a strategist about jack though his method be coarse. aloud. you d good get a new dress then. aside. let u pray that that will turn her. 
mr. g. oh it isn t stain in the least. i only think that i d tell you. return to letter. what an extraordinary person. read. but need i remind you that you have take upon yourself a charge of wardship what in the world be a charge of wardship. which a you yourself know may end in consequence. 
capt. g. aside. it s safe to let em see everything a they come across it. but seem to me that there be exception to the rule. aloud. i tell you that there be nothing to be gain from rearrange my table. 
mr. g. absently. what doe the woman mean. she go on talk about consequence almost inevitable consequence with a capital c for half a page. flush scarlet. oh good gracious. how abominable. 
capt. g. promptly. do you think so. doesn t it show a sort of motherly interest in u. aside. thank heaven harry always wrap her mean up safely. aloud. be it absolutely necessary to go on with the letter darling. 
mr. g. it s impertinent it s simply horrid. what right ha this woman to write in this way to you. she oughtn t to. 
capt. g. when you write to the deercourt girl i notice that you generally fill three or four sheet. can t you let an old woman babble on paper once in a way. she mean well. 
mr. g. i don t care. she shouldn t write and if she do you ought to have show me her letter. 
capt. g. can t you understand why i keep it to myself or must i explain at length a i explain the farcy bud. 
mr. g. furiously. pip i hate you. this be a bad a those idiotic saddle bag on the floor. never mind whether it would please me or not you ought to have give it to me to read. 
capt. g. it come to the same thing. you take it yourself. 
mr. g. yes but if i hadn t take it you wouldn t have say a word. i think this harriet herriott it s like a name in a book be an interfere old thing. 
capt. g. aside. so long a you thoroughly understand that she be old i don t much care what you think. aloud. very good dear. would you like to write and tell her so. she s seven thousand mile away. 
mr. g. i don t want to have anything to do with her but you ought to have tell me. turn to last page of letter. and she patronise me_ too. i_ ve never see her. read. i do not know how the world stand with you. in all human probability i shall never know. but whatever i may have say before i pray for her sake more than for yours that all may be well. i have learn what misery mean and i dare not wish that any one dear to you should share my knowledge. 
capt. g. good god. can t you leave that letter alone or at least can t you refrain from read it aloud. i ve be through it once. put it back on the desk. do you hear me. 
mr. g. irresolutely. i sh shan t. look at g. s eye. oh pip please. i didn t mean to make you angry deed i didn t. pip i m so sorry. i know i ve waste your time. 
capt. g. grimly. you have. now will you be good enough to go if there be nothing more in my room that you be anxious to pry into. 
mr. g. put out her hand. oh pip don t look at me like that. i ve never see you look like that before and it hu urts me. i m sorry. i oughtn t to have be here at all and and and. sob. oh be good to me. be good to me. there s only you anywhere. 
break down in long chair hide face in cushion. 
capt. g. aside. she doesn t know how she flick me on the raw. aloud bend over chair. i didn t mean to be harsh dear i didn t really. you can stay here a long a you please and do what you please. don t cry like that. you ll make yourself sick. aside. what on earth ha come over her. aloud. darling what s the matter with you. 
mr. g. her face still hide. let me go let me go to my own room. only only say you aren t angry with me. 
capt. g. angry with you_ love. of course not. i be angry with myself. i d lose my temper over the saddlery don t hide your face pussy. i want to kiss it. 
bend lower_ mr. g. slide right arm round his neck. several interlude and much sob. 
mr. g. in a whisper. i didn t mean about the jam when i come in to tell you. 
capt. g. bother the jam and the equipment. interlude. 
mr. g. still more faintly. my finger wasn t scald at all. i i want to speak to you about about something else and i didn t know how. 
capt. g. speak away then. look into her eye. eh. wha at. minnie. here don t go away. you don t mean. 
mr. g. hysterically back to portiere and hide her face in it fold. the the almost inevitable consequence. flit though portiere a g. attempt to catch her and bolt herself in her own room. 
capt. g. his arm full of portiere. oh. sit down heavily in chair. i m a brute a pig a bully and a blackguard. my poor poor little darling. make to be amuse only. 
the valley of the shadow. 
know good and evil. 
scene. the gadsbys bungalow in the plain in june. punkah cooly asleep in veranda where captain gadsby be walk up and down. doctor s trap in porch. junior chaplain drift generally and uneasily through the house. time. a. m. heat degree in veranda. 
doctor. come into veranda and touch g. on the shoulder. you have good go in and see her now. 
capt. g. the colour of good cigar ash. eh wha at. oh yes of course. what do you say. 
doctor. syllable by syllable. go in to the room and see her. she want to speak to you. aside testily. i shall have him on my hand next. 
junior chaplain. in half light din room. isn t there any. 
doctor. savagely. hsh you little fool. 
junior chaplain. let me do my work. gadsby stop a minute. edge after g. 
doctor. wait till she send for you at least at least. man alive he ll kill you if you go in there. what be you bother him for. 
junior chaplain. come into veranda. i ve give him a stiff brandy peg. he want it. you ve forget him for the last ten hour and forget yourself too. 
g. enter bedroom which be light by one night lamp. ayah on the floor pretend to be asleep. 
voice. from the bed. all down the street such bonfire. ayah_ go and put them out. appealingly. how can i sleep with an installation of the c. i. e. in my room. no not c. i. e. something else. what be it. 
capt. g. try to control his voice. minnie i m here. bend over bed. don t you know me minnie. it s me it s phil it s your husband. 
voice. mechanically. it s me it s phil it s your husband. 
capt. g. she doesn t know me. it s your own husband darling. 
voice. your own husband darling. 
ayah. with an inspiration. memsahib understand all i say. 
capt. g. make her understand me then quick. 
ayah. hand on mr. g s forehead. memsahib. captain sahib here. 
voice. salma do. fretfully. i know i m not fit to be see. 
ayah. aside to g. say marneen same a breakfash. 
capt. g. good morning little woman. how be we to day. 
voice. that s phil. poor old phil. viciously. phil you fool i can t see you. come near. 
capt. g. minnie. minnie. it s me you know me. 
voice. mockingly. of course i do. who doe not know the man who be so cruel to his wife almost the only one he ever have. 
capt. g. yes dear. yes of course of course. but win t you speak to him. he want to speak to you so much. 
voice. they d never let him in. the doctor would give darwaza bund even if he be in the house. he ll never come. despairingly. o juda. juda. juda. 
capt. g. put out his arm. they have let him in and he always be in the house. oh my love don t you know me. 
voice. in a half chant. and it come to pas at the eleventh hour that this poor soul repent. it knock at the gate but they be shut tight a a plaster a great burn plaster. they have paste our marriage certificate all across the door and it be make of red hot iron people really ought to be more careful you know. 
capt. g. what be i to do. take her in his arm. minnie. speak to me to phil. 
voice. what shall i say. oh tell me what to say before it s too late. they be all go away and i can t say anything. 
capt. g. say you know me. only say you know me. 
doctor. who ha enter quietly. for pity s sake don t take it too much to heart gadsby. it s this way sometimes. they win t recognise. they say all sort of queer thing don t you see. 
capt. g. all right. all right. go away now she ll recognise me. you re bother her. she must mustn t she. 
doctor. she will before have i your leave to try. 
capt. g. anything you please so long a she ll know me. it s only a question of hour isn t it. 
doctor. professionally. while there s life there s hope y know. but don t build on it. 
capt. g. i don t. pull her together if it s possible. aside. what have i do to deserve this. 
doctor. bend over bed. now mr. gadsby. we shall be all right to morrow. you must take it or i shan t let phil see you. it isn t nasty be it. 
voice. medicine. always more medicine. can t you leave me alone. 
capt. g. oh leave her in peace doc. 
doctor. step back aside. may i be forgive if i ve do wrong. aloud. in a few minute she ought to be sensible. but i daren t tell you to look for anything. it s only. 
capt. g. what. go on_ man. 
doctor. in a whisper. force the last rally. 
capt. g. then leave u alone. 
doctor. don t mind what she say at first if you can. they they they turn against those they love most sometimes in this. it s hard but. 
capt. g. be i her husband or be you. leave u alone for what time we have together. 
voice. confidentially. and we be engage quite suddenly emma. i assure you that i never think of it for a moment. but oh my little me. i don t know what i should have do if he hadn t propose. 
capt. g. she think of that deercourt girl before she think of me. aloud. minnie. 
voice. not from the shop mummy dear. you can get the real leaf from kaintu and. laugh weakly. never mind about the blossom dead white silk be only fit for widow and i win t wear it. it s a bad a a wind sheet. a long pause. 
capt. g. i never ask a favour yet. if there be anybody to listen to me let her know me even if i die too. 
voice. very faintly. pip pip dear. 
capt. g. i m here darling. 
voice. what ha happen. they ve be bother me so with medicine and thing and they wouldn t let you come and see me. i be never ill before. be i ill now. 
capt. g. you you aren t quite well. 
voice. how funny. have i be ill long. 
capt. g. some day. but you ll be all right in a little time. 
voice. do you think so pip. i don t feel well and oh. what have they do to my hair. 
capt. g. i d d don t know. 
voice. they ve cut it off. what a shame. 
capt. g. it must have be to make your head cool. 
voice. just like a boy s wig. don t i look horrid. 
capt. g. never look pretty in your life dear. aside. how be i to ask her to say good bye. 
voice. i don t feel pretty. i feel very ill. my heart win t work. it s nearly dead inside me and there s a funny feel in my eye. everything seem the same distance you and the almirah and the table inside my eye or mile away. what doe it mean pip. 
capt. g. you re a little feverish sweetheart very feverish. break down. my love. my love. how can i let you go. 
voice. i think so. why didn t you tell me that at first. 
capt. g. what. 
voice. that i be go to die. 
capt. g. but you aren t. you shan t. 
ayah to punkah coolie. step into veranda after a glance at the bed. punkah chor do. stop pull the punkah. 
voice. it s hard pip. so very very hard after one year just one year. wail. and i m only twenty. most girl aren t even marry at twenty. can t they do anything to help me. i don t want to die. 
capt. g. hush dear. you win t. 
voice. what s the use of talk. help me. you ve never fail me yet. oh phil help me to keep alive. feverishly. i don t believe you wish me to live. you weren t a bite sorry when that horrid baby thing die. i wish i d kill it. 
capt. g. draw his hand across his forehead. it s more than a man s mean to bear it s not right. aloud. minnie love i d die for you if it would help. 
voice. no more death. there s enough already. pip don t you die too. 
capt. g. i wish i dare. 
voice. it say. till death do u part. nothing after that and so it would be no use. it stop at the die. why doe it stop there. only such a very short life too. pip i m sorry we marry. 
capt. g. no. anything but that min. 
voice. because you ll forget and i ll forget. oh pip don t forget. i always love you though i be cross sometimes. if i ever do anything that you didn t like say you forgive me now. 
capt. g. you never do darling. on my soul and honour you never do. i haven t a thing to forgive you. 
voice. i sulk for a whole week about those petunia. with a laugh. what a little wretch i be and how grieve you be. forgive me that pip. 
capt. g. there s nothing to forgive. it be my fault. they be too near the drive. for god s sake don t talk so minnie. there s such a lot to say and so little time to say it in. 
voice. say that you ll always love me until the end. 
capt. g. until the end. carry away. it s a lie. it must be because we ve love each other. this isn t the end. 
voice. relapse into semi delirium. my church service ha an ivory cross on the back and it say so so it must be true. till death do u part. but that s a lie. with a parody of g. s manner. a damn lie. recklessly. yes i can swear a well a trooper pip. i can t make my head think though. that s because they cut off my hair. how can one think with one s head all fuzzy. pleadingly. hold me pip. keep me with you always and always. relapse. but if you marry the thorniss girl when i m dead i ll come back and howl under our bedroom window all night. oh bother. you ll think i m a jackal. pip what time be it. 
capt. g. i i i can t help it dear. 
voice. how funny. i couldn t cry now to save my life. g. shiver. i want to sing. 
capt. g. win t it tire you. good not perhaps. 
voice. why. i win t be bother about. begin in a hoarse quaver. 
minnie bake oaten cake minnie brew ale all because her johnnie s come home from the sea. that s parade pip. and she grow red a rise who be so pale. and be you sure the church clock go. say she. 
pettishly. i know i couldn t take the last note. how do the bass chord run. put out her hand and begin play piano on the sheet. 
capt. g. catch up hand. ahh. don t do that pussy if you love me. 
voice. love you. of course i do. who else should it be. a pause. 
voice. very clearly. pip i m go now. something s choke me cruelly. indistinctly. into the dark without you my heart. but it s a lie dear we mustn t believe it. for ever and ever live or dead. don t let me go my husband hold me tight. they can t whatever happen. a cough. pip my pip. not for always and so soon. voice cease. 
pause of ten minute. g. bury his face in the side of the bed while ayah bend over bed from opposite side and feel mr. g. s breast and forehead. 
capt. g. rise. doctor sahib ko salaam do. 
ayah. still by bedside with a shriek. ai. ai. tuta phuta. my memsahib. not get not have get. pusseena agya. the sweat ha come. fiercely to g. tum jao doctor sahib ko jaldi. you go to the doctor. oh my memsahib. 
doctor. enter hastily. come away gadsby. bend over bed. eh. the dev what inspire you to stop the punkah. get out man go away wait outside. go. here ayah. over his shoulder to g. mind i promise nothing. 
the dawn break a g. stumble into the garden. 
capt. m. rein up at the gate on his way to parade and very soberly. old man how go. 
capt. g. daze. i don t quite know. stay a bite. have a drink or something. don t run away. you re just get amuse. ha. ha. 
capt. m. aside. what be i let in for. gaddy ha age ten year in the night. 
capt. g. slowly finger charger s headstall. your curb s too loose. 
capt. m. so it be. put it straight will you. aside. i shall be late for parade. poor gaddy. 
capt. g. link and unlinks curb chain aimlessly and finally stand star towards the veranda. the day brighten. 
doctor. knock out of professional gravity tramp across flower bed and shake g. s hand. it s it s it s. gadsby there s a fair chance a dash fair chance. the flicker y know. the sweat y know. i saw how it would be. the punkah y know. deuced clever woman that ayah of yours. stop the punkah just at the right time. a dash good chance. no you don t go in. we ll pull her through yet i promise on my reputation under providence. send a man with this note to bingle. two head good than one. specially the ayah. we ll pull her round. retreat hastily to house. 
capt. g. his head on neck of m. s charger. jack. i bub bub believe i m go to make a bub bub bloody exhibitiod of byself. 
capt. m. sniff openly and feel in his leave cuff. i b b believe i b do it already. old bad what cad i say. i b a please a cod dab you gaddy. you re one big idiot and i b adother. pull himself together. sit tight. here come the devil dodger. 
junior chaplain. who be not in the doctor s confidence. we we be only men in these thing gadsby. i know that i can say nothing now to help. 
capt. m. jealously. then don t say it. leave him alone. it s not bad enough to croak over. here gaddy take the chit to bingle and ride hell for leather. it ll do you good. i can t go. 
junior chaplain. do him good. smile. give me the chit and i ll drive. let him lie down. your horse be block my cart please. 
capt. m. slowly without rein back. i beg your pardon i ll apologise. on paper if you like. 
junior chaplain. flick m. s charger. that ll do thank. turn in gadsby and i ll bring bingle back ahem hell for leather. 
capt. m. solus. it would have serve me right if he d cut me across the face. he can drive too. i shouldn t care to go that pace in a bamboo cart. what a faith he must have in his maker of harness. come hup_ you brute. gallop off to parade blow his nose a the sun rise. 
interval of five week. 
mr. g. very white and pinch in morning wrapper at breakfast table. how big and strange the room look and oh how glad i be to see it again. what dust though. i must talk to the servant. sugar pip. i ve almost forget. seriously. wasn t i very ill. 
capt. g. ill than i like. tenderly. oh you bad little pussy what a start you give me. 
mr. g. i ll never do it again. 
capt. g. you d good not. and now get those poor pale cheek pink again or i shall be angry. don t try to lift the urn. you ll upset it. wait. come round to head of table and lift urn. 
mr. g. quickly. khitmatgar bowarchi khana see kettly lao. butler get a kettle from the cook house. draw down g. s face to her own. pip dear i remember. 
capt. g. what. 
mr. g. that last terrible night. 
capt. g. then just you forget all about it. 
mr. g. softly her eye fill. never. it ha bring u very close together my husband. there. interlude. i m go to give junda a saree. 
capt. g. i give her fifty dibs. 
mr. g. so she tell me. it be a normous reward. be i worth it. several interlude. don t. here s the khitmatgar. two lump or one sir. 
the swell of jordan. 
if thou hast run with the footman and they have weary thee then how canst thou contend with horse. and if in the land of peace wherein thou trustedst they weary thee then how wilt thou do in the swell of jordan. 
scene. the gadseys bungalow in the plain on a january morning. mr. g. argue with bearer in back veranda. 
capt. m. ride up. 
capt. m. mornin mr. gadsby. how s the infant phenomenon and the proud proprietor. 
mr. g. you ll find them in the front veranda. go through the house. i m martha just now. 
capt. m. cumber about with care of khitmatgars. i fly. 
pass into front veranda where gadsby be watch gadsby junior age ten month crawl about the mat. 
capt. m. what s the trouble gaddy spoil an honest man s europe morning this way. see g. junior. by jove that yearling s comin on amazingly. any amount of bone below the knee there. 
capt. g. yes he s a healthy little scoundrel. don t you think his hair s grow. 
m. let s have a look. hi. hst. come here general luck and we ll report on you. 
mr. g. within. what absurd name will you give him next. why do you call him that. 
m. isn t he our inspector general of cavalry. doesn t he come down in his seventy two perambulator every morning the pink hussar parade. don t wriggle brigadier. give u your private opinion on the way the third squadron go past. trifle rag weren t they. 
g. a big set of tailor than the new draft i don t wish to see. they ve give me more than my fair share knock the squadron out of shape. it s sicken. 
m. when you re in command you ll do good young un. can t you walk yet. get my finger and try. to g. twon t hurt his hock will it. 
g. oh no. don t let him flop though or he ll lick all the black off your boot. 
mr. g. within. who s destroy my son s character. 
m. and my godson s. i m ashamed of you gaddy. punch your father in the eye jack. don t you stand it. hit him again. 
g. sotto voce. put the butcha down and come to the end of the veranda. i d rather the wife didn t hear just now. 
m. you look awf ly serious. anything wrong. 
g. depend on your view entirely. i say jack you win t think more hardly of me than you can help will you. come further this way. the fact of the matter be that i ve make up my mind at least i m think seriously of cut the service. 
m. hwhatt. 
g. don t shout. i m go to send in my paper. 
m. you. be you mad. 
g. no only marry. 
m. look here. what s the mean of it all. you never intend to leave u. you can t. isn t the best squadron of the best regiment of the best cavalry in all the world good enough for you. 
g. jerk his head over his shoulder. she doesn t seem to thrive in this god forsake country and there s the butcha to be consider and all that you know. 
m. doe she say that she doesn t like india. 
g. that s the bad of it. she win t for fear of leave me. 
m. what be the hill make for. 
g. not for my wife at any rate. 
m. you know too much gaddy and i don t like you any the good for it. 
g. never mind that. she want england and the butcha would be all the good for it. i m go to chuck. you don t understand. 
m. hotly. i understand this. one hundred and thirty seven new horse to be lick into shape somehow before luck come round again. a hairy heel draft who ll give more trouble than the horse. a camp next cold weather for a certainty. ourselves the first on the roster. the russian shindy ready to come to a head at five minute notice and you the best of u all back out of it all. think a little gaddy. you win t do it. 
g. hang it a man ha some duty towards his family i suppose. 
m. i remember a man though who tell me the night after amdheran when we be picket under jagai and he d leave his sword by the way do you ever pay ranken for that sword. in an utmanzai s head that man tell me that he d stick by me and the pink a long a he live. i don t blame him for not stick by me i m not much of a man but i do blame him for not stick by the pink hussar. 
g. uneasily. we be little more than boy then. can t you see jack how thing stand. tisn t a if we be serve for our bread. we ve all of u more or le get the filthy lucre. i m lucky than some perhaps. there s no call for me to serve on. 
m. none in the world for you or for u except the regimental. if you don t choose to answer to that_ of course. 
g. don t be too hard on a man. you know that a lot of u only take up the thing for a few year and then go back to town and catch on with the rest. 
m. not lot and they aren t some of u. 
g. and then there be one s affair at home to be consider my place and the rent and all that. i don t suppose my father can last much long and that mean the title and so on. 
m. fraid you win t be enter in the stud book correctly unless you go home. take six month then and come out in october. if i could slay off a brother or two i s pose i should be a marquis of sort. any fool can be that. but it need men_ gaddy men like you to lead flank squadron properly. don t you delude yourself into the belief that you re go home to take your place and prance about among pink nose kabuli dowager. you aren t build that way. i know good. 
g. a man ha a right to live his life a happily a he can. you aren t marry. 
m. no praise be to providence and the one or two woman who have have the good sense to jawab me. 
g. then you don t know what it be to go into your own room and see your wife s head on the pillow and when everything else be safe and the house shut up for the night to wonder whether the roof beam win t give and kill her. 
m. aside. revelation first and second. aloud. so o. i know a man who get squiffy at our mess once and confide to me that he never help his wife on to her horse without pray that she d break her neck before she come back. all husband aren t alike you see. 
g. what on earth ha that to do with my case. the man must ha be mad or his wife a bad a they make em. 
m. aside. no fault of yours if either weren t all you say. you ve forget the tune when you be insane about the herriott woman. you always be a good hand at forget. aloud. not more mad than men who go to the other extreme. be reasonable gaddy. your roof beam be sound enough. 
g. that be only a way of speak. i ve be uneasy and worry about the wife ever since that awful business three year ago when i nearly lose her. can you wonder. 
m. oh a shell never fall twice in the same place. you ve pay your toll to misfortune why should your wife be pick out more than anybody else s. 
g. i can talk just a reasonably a you can but you don t understand you don t understand. and then there s the butcha. deuce know where the ayah take him to sit in the even. he ha a bite of a cough. haven t you notice it. 
m. bosh. the brigadier s jump out of his skin with pure condition. he s get a muzzle like a rise leaf and the chest of a two year old. what s demoralise you. 
g. funk. that s the long and the short of it. funk. 
m. but what be there to funk. 
g. everything. it s ghastly. 
m. ah. i see. 
you don t want to fight and by jingo when we do you ve get the kid you ve get the wife you ve get the money too. 
that s about the case eh. 
g. i suppose that s it. but it s not for myself. it s because of them. at least i think it be. 
m. be you sure. look at the matter in a cold blood light the wife be provide for even if you be wipe out to night. she ha an ancestral home to go to money and the brigadier to carry on the illustrious name. 
g. then it be for myself or because they be part of me. you don t see it. my life s so good so pleasant a it be that i want to make it quite safe. can t you understand. 
m. perfectly. shelter pit for the orf cer s charger a they say in the line. 
g. and i have everything to my hand to make it so. i m sick of the strain and the worry for their sake out here. and there isn t a single real difficulty to prevent my drop it altogether. it ll only cost me jack i hope you ll never know the shame that i ve be go through for the past six month. 
m. hold on there. i don t wish to be tell. every man ha his mood and tense sometimes. 
g. laugh bitterly. ha he. what do you call crane over to see where your near fore land. 
m. in my case it mean that i have be on the considerable bend and have come to parade with a head and a hand. it pass in three stride. 
g. lower voice. it never pass with me jack. i m always think about it. phil gadsby funk a fall on parade. sweet picture isn t it. draw it for me. 
m. gravely. heaven forbid. a man like you can t be a bad a that. a fall be no nice thing but one never give it a think. 
g. doesn t one. wait till you ve get a wife and a youngster of your own and then you ll know how the roar of the squadron behind you turn you cold all up the back. 
m. aside. and this man lead at amdheran after bagal deasin go under and we be all mix up together and he come out of the show drip like a butch. aloud. skittle. the men can always open out and you can always pick your way more or le. we haven t the dust to bother u a the men have and whoever hear of a horse step on a man. 
g. never a long a he can see. but do they open out for poor errington. 
m. oh this be childish. 
g. i know it be bad than that. i don t care. you ve ride van loo. be he the sort of brute to pick his way specially when we re come up in column of troop with any pace on. 
m. once in a blue moon do we gallop in column of troop and then only to save time. aren t three length enough for you. 
g. yes quite enough. they just allow for the full development of the smash. i m talk like a cur i know. but i tell you that for the past three month i ve felt every hoof of the squadron in the small of my back every time that i ve lead. 
m. but gaddy this be awful. 
g. isn t it lovely. isn t it royal. a captain of the pink hussar water up his charger before parade like the blast booze colonel of a black regiment. 
m. you never do. 
g. once only. he squelch like a mussuck_ and the troop sergeant major cock his eye at me. you know old haffy s eye. i be afraid to do it again. 
m. i should think so. that be the best way to rupture old van loo s tummy and make him crumple you up. you know that. 
g. i didn t care. it take the edge off him. 
m. take the edge off him. gaddy you you you mustn t_ you know. think of the men. 
g. that s another thing i be afraid of. d you s pose they know. 
m. let s hope not. but they re deadly quick to spot skrim little thing of that kind. see here old man send the wife home for the hot weather and come to kashmir with me. we ll start a boat on the dal or cross the rhotang shoot ibex or loaf which you please. only come. you re a bite off your oat and you re talk nonsense. look at the colonel swag belly rascal that he be. he ha a wife and no end of a bow window of his own. can any one of u ride round him chalk stone and all. i can t and i think i can shove a crock along a bite. 
g. some men be different. i haven t the nerve. lord help me i haven t the nerve. i ve take up a hole and a half to get my knee well under the wallet. i can t help it. i m so afraid of anything happen to me. on my soul i ought to be break in front of the squadron for cowardice. 
m. ugly word that. i should never have the courage to own up. 
g. i mean to lie about my reason when i begin but i ve get out of the habit of lie to you old man. jack you win t. but i know you win t. 
m. of course not. half aloud. the pink be pay dearly for their pride. 
g. eh. wha at. 
m. don t you know. the men have call mr. gadsby the pride of the pink hussar ever since she come to u. 
g. tisn t her fault. don t think that. it s all mine. 
m. what doe she say. 
g. i haven t exactly put it before her. she s the best little woman in the world jack and all that but she wouldn t counsel a man to stick to his call if it come between him and her. at least i think. 
m. never mind. don t tell her what you tell me. go on the peerage and land gentry tack. 
g. she d see through it. she s five time clever than i be. 
m. aside. then she ll accept the sacrifice and think a little bite bad of him for the rest of her day. 
g. absently. i say do you despise me. 
m. queer way of put it. have you ever be ask that question. think a minute. what answer use you to give. 
g. so bad a that. i m not entitle to expect anything more but it s a bite hard when one s best friend turn round and. 
m. so i have find. but you will have consolation bailiff and drain and liquid manure and the primrose league and perhaps if you re lucky the colonelcy of a yeomanry cav al ry regiment all uniform and no rid i believe. how old be you. 
g. thirty three. i know it s. 
m. at forty you ll be a fool of a j. p. landlord. at fifty you ll own a bath chair and the brigadier if he take after you will be flutter the dovecote of what s the particular dunghill you re go to. also mr. gadsby will be fat. 
g. limply. this be rather more than a joke. 
m. d you think so. isn t cut the service a joke. it generally take a man fifty year to arrive at it. you re quite right though. it be more than a joke. you ve manage it in thirty three. 
g. don t make me feel bad than i do. will it satisfy you if i own that i be a shirker a skrim shanker and a coward. 
m. it will not_ because i m the only man in the world who can talk to you like this without be knock down. you mustn t take all that i ve say to heart in this way. i only speak a lot of it at least out of pure selfishness because because oh damn it all old man i don t know what i shall do without you. of course you ve get the money and the place and all that and there be two very good reason why you should take care of yourself. 
g. doesn t make it any the sweet. i m back out i know i be. i always have a soft drop in me somewhere and i daren t risk any danger to them. 
m. why in the world should you. you re bind to think of your family bind to think. er hmm. if i wasn t a young son i d go too be shoot if i wouldn t. 
g. thank you jack. it s a kind lie but it s the black you ve tell for some time. i know what i m do and i m go into it with my eye open. old man i can t help it. what would you do if you be in my place. 
m. aside. couldn t conceive any woman get permanently between me and the regiment. aloud. can t say. very likely i should do no good. i m sorry for you awf ly sorry but if them s your sentiment i believe i really do that you be act wisely. 
g. do you. i hope you do. in a whisper. jack be very sure of yourself before you marry. i m an ungrateful ruffian to say this but marriage even a good a marriage a mine ha be hamper a man s work it cripple his sword arm and oh it play hell with his notion of duty. sometimes good and sweet a she be sometimes i could wish that i have keep my freedom no i don t mean that exactly. 
mr. g. come down the veranda. what be you wag your head over pip. 
m. turn quickly. me a usual. the old sermon. your husband be recommend me to get marry. never saw such a one ideaed man. 
mr. g. well why don t you. i daresay you would make some woman very happy. 
g. there s the law and the prophet jack. never mind the regiment. make a woman happy. aside. o lord. 
m. we ll see. i must be off to make a troop cook desperately unhappy. i win t have the wily hussar feed on government bullock train shinbone. hastily. surely black ant can t be good for the brigadier. he s pick em off the mat and eat em. here senor commandante don grubbynose come and talk to me. lift g. junior in his arm. want my watch. you win t be able to put it into your mouth but you can try. g. junior drop watch break dial and hand. 
mr. g. oh captain mafflin i be so sorry. jack you bad bad little villain. ahhh. 
m. it s not the least consequence i assure you. he d treat the world in the same way if he could get it into his hand. everything s make to be play with and break isn t it young un. 
* * * * *. 
mr. g. mafflin didn t at all like his watch be break though he be too polite to say so. it be entirely his fault for give it to the child. dem little pud be werry werry feeble aren t dey my jack in de box. to g. what do he want to see you for. 
g. regimental shop a usual. 
mr. g. the regiment. always the regiment. on my word i sometimes feel jealous of mafflin. 
g. wearily. poor old jack. i don t think you need. isn t it time for the butcha to have his nap. bring a chair out here dear. i ve get something to talk over with you. 
and this be the end of the story of the gadsbys. 
l envoi. 
what be the moral. who ride may read. when the night be thick and the track be blind. a friend at a pinch be a friend indeed. but a fool to wait for the laggard behind. down to gehenna or up to the throne he travel the fast who travel alone. 
white hand cling to the tighten rein slip the spur from the boot heel tender voice cry turn again red lip tarnish the scabbarded steel high hope faint on a warm hearth stone he travel the fast who travel alone. 
one may fall but he fall by himself fall by himself with himself to blame. one may attain and to him be the pelf loot of the city in gold of fame. plunder of earth shall be all his own who travel the fast and travel alone. 
wherefore the more ye be holpen and stay stay by a friend in the hour of toil sing the heretical song i have make his be the labour and yours be the spoil. win by his aid and the aid of disown he travel the fast who travel alone. 
dray wara yow dee. 
for jealousy be the rage of a man. therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. prov. vi. 
almond and raisin sahib. grape from kabul. or a pony of the rare if the sahib will only come with me. he be thirteen three sahib play polo go in a cart carry a lady and holy kurshed and the bless imam it be the sahib himself. my heart be make fat and my eye glad. may you never be tire. a be cold water in the tirah so be the sight of a friend in a far place. and what do you in this accurse land. south of delhi sahib you know the say rat be the men and trulls the woman. it be an order. ahoo. an order be an order till one be strong enough to disobey. o my brother o my friend we have meet in an auspicious hour. be all well in the heart and the body and the house. in a lucky day have we two come together again. 
i be to go with you. your favour be great. will there be picket room in the compound. i have three horse and the bundle and the horse boy. moreover remember that the police here hold me a horse thief. what do these lowland bastard know of horse thief. do you remember that time in peshawur when kamal hammer on the gate of jumrud mountebank that he be and lift the colonel s horse all in one night. kamal be dead now but his nephew ha take up the matter and there will be more horse amissing if the khaiber levy do not look to it. 
the peace of god and the favour of his prophet be upon this house and all that be in it. shafizullah rope the mottle mare under the tree and draw water. the horse can stand in the sun but double the felt over the loin. nay my friend do not trouble to look them over. they be to sell to the officer fool who know so many tiling of the horse. the mare be heavy in foal. the gray be a devil unlicked. and the dun but you know the trick of the peg. when they be sell i go back to pubbi or it may be the valley of peshawur. 
o friend of my heart it be good to see you again. i have be bow and lie all day to the officer sahib in respect to those horse. and my mouth be dry for straight talk. auggrh. before a meal tobacco be good. do not join me for we be not in our own country. sit in the veranda and i will spread my cloth here. but first i will drink. in the name of god return thank thrice. this be sweet water indeed sweet a the water of sheoran when it come from the snow. 
they be all well and please in the north khoda baksh and the others. yar khan ha come down with the horse from kurdistan six and thirty head only and a full half pack pony and ha say openly in the kashmir serai that you english should send gun and blow the amir into hell. there be fifteen roll now on the kabul road. and at dakka when he think he be clear yar khan be strip of all his balkh stallion by the governor. this be a great injustice and yar khan be hot with rage. and of the others. mahbub ali be still at pubbi write god know what. tugluq khan be in jail for the business of the kohat police post. faiz beg come down from ismail ki dhera with a bokhariot belt for thee my brother at the close of the year but none know whither thou hadst go. there be no news leave behind. the cousin have take a new run near pakpattan to breed mule for the government cart and there be a story in bazar of a priest. oho. such a salt tale. listen. 
sahib why do you ask that. my clothe be foul because of the dust on the road. my eye be sad because of the glare of the sun. my foot be swell because i have wash them in bitter water and my cheek be hollow because the food here be bad. fire burn your money. what do i want with it. i be rich and i think you be my friend. but you be like the others a sahib. be a man sad. give him money say the sahib. be he dishonour. give him money say the sahib. hath he a wrong upon his head. give him money say the sahib. such be the sahib and such art thou even thou. 
nay do not look at the foot of the dun. pity it be that i ever teach you to know the leg of a horse. footsore. be it so. what of that. the road be hard. and the mare footsore. she bear a double burden sahib. 
and now i pray you give me permission to depart. great favour and honour ha the sahib do me and graciously ha he show his belief that the horse be steal. will it please him to send me to the thana. to call a sweeper and have me lead away by one of these lizard men. i be the sahib s friend. i have drink water in the shadow of his house and he ha blacken my face. remain there anything more to do. will the sahib give me eight anna to make smooth the injury and complete the insult. 
forgive me my brother. i know not i know not now what i say. yes i lie to you. i will put dust on my head and i be an afridi. the horse have be march footsore from the valley to this place and my eye be dim and my body ache for the want of sleep and my heart be dry up with sorrow and shame. but a it be my shame so by god the dispenser of justice by allah al mumit it shall be my own revenge. 
we have speak together with naked heart before this and our hand have dip into the same dish and thou hast be to me a a brother. therefore i pay thee back with lie and ingratitude a a pathan. listen now. when the grief of the soul be too heavy for endurance it may be a little ease by speech and moreover the mind of a true man be a a well and the pebble of confession drop therein sink and be no more see. from the valley have i come on foot league by league with a fire in my chest like the fire of the pit. and why. hast thou then so quickly forget our custom among this folk who sell their wife and their daughter for silver. come back with me to the north and be among men once more. come back when this matter be accomplish and i call for thee. the bloom of the peach orchard be upon all the valley and here be only dust and a great stink. there be a pleasant wind among the mulberry tree and the stream be bright with snow water and the caravan go up and the caravan go down and a hundred fire sparkle in the gut of the pas and tent peg answer hammer nose and pack horse squeal to pack horse across the drift smoke of the even. it be good in the north now. come back with me. let u return to our own people. come. 
* * * * *. 
whence be my sorrow. doe a man tear out his heart and make fritter thereof over a slow fire for aught other than a woman. do not laugh friend of mine for your time will also be. a woman of the abazai be she and i take her to wife to staunch the feud between our village and the men of ghor. i be no long young. the lime ha touch my beard. true. i have no need of the wed. nay but i love her. what saith rahman. into whose heart love enter there be folly and naught else. by a glance of the eye she hath blind thee. and by the eyelid and the fringe of the eyelid take thee into the captivity without ransom and naught else. dost thou remember that song at the sheep roast in the pindi camp among the uzbeg of the amir. 
the abazai be dog and their woman the servant of sin. there be a lover of her own people but of that her father tell me naught. my friend curse for me in your prayer a i curse at each pray from the fakr to the isha the name of daoud shah abazai whose head be still upon his neck whose hand be still upon his wrist who ha do me dishonour who ha make my name a laugh stock among the woman of little malikand. 
i go into hindustan at the end of two month to cherat. i be go twelve day only. but i have say that i would be fifteen day absent. this i do to try her for it be write. trust not the incapable. come up the gorge alone in the fall of the light i hear the voice of a man sing at the door of my house. and it be the voice of daoud shah and the song that he sing be dray wara yow dee all three be one. it be a though a heelrope have be slip round my heart and all the devil be draw it tight past endurance. i creep silently up the hill road but the fuse of my matchlock be wet with the rain and i could not slay daoud shah from afar. moreover it be in my mind to kill the woman also. thus he sing sit outside my house and anon the woman open the door and i come near crawl on my belly among the rock. i have only my knife to my hand. but a stone slip under my foot and the two look down the hillside and he leave his matchlock flee from my anger because he be afraid for the life that be in him. but the woman move not till i stand in front of her cry. o woman what be this that thou hast do. and she void of fear though she know my think laugh say. it be a little thing. i love him and thou art a dog and cattle thief come by night. strike. and i be still blind by her beauty for o my friend the woman of the abazai be very fair say. hast thou no fear. and she answer. none but only the fear that i do not die. then say i. have no fear. and she bow her head and i smite it off at the neck bone so that it leap between my foot. thereafter the rage of our people come upon me and i hack off the breast that the men of little malikand might know the crime and cast the body into the water course that flow to the kabul river. dray wara yow dee. dray wara yow dee. the body without the head the soul without light and my own darkling heart all three be one all three be one. 
that night make no halt i go to ghor and demand news of daoud shah. men say. he be go to pubbi for horse. what wouldst thou of him. there be peace between the village. i make answer. aye. the peace of treachery and the love that the devil atala bore to gurel. so i fire thrice into the gate and laugh and go my way. 
in those hour brother and friend of my heart s heart the moon and the star be a blood above me and in my mouth be the taste of dry earth. also i break no bread and my drink be the rain of the valley of ghor upon my face. 
at pubbi i find mahbub ali the writer sit upon his charpoy and give up my arm accord to your law. but i be not grieve for it be in my heart that i should kill daoud shah with my bare hand thus a a man strip a bunch of raisin. mahbub ali say. daoud shah ha even now go hot foot to peshawur and he will pick up his horse upon the road to delhi for it be say that the bombay tramway company be buy horse there by the truck load. eight horse to the truck. and that be a true say. 
then i saw that the hunt would be no little thing for the man be go into your border to save himself against my wrath. and shall he save himself so. be i not alive. though he run northward to the dora and the snow or southerly to the black water i will follow him a a lover follow the footstep of his mistress and come upon him i will take him tenderly aho. so tenderly. in my arm say. well hast thou do and well shalt thou be repay. and out of that embrace daoud shah shall not go forth with the breath in his nostril. auggrh. where be the pitcher. i be a thirsty a a mother mare in the first month. 
your law. what be your law to me. when the horse fight on the run do they regard the boundary pillar. or do the kite of ali musjid forbear because the carrion lie under the shadow of ghor kuttri. the matter begin across the border. it shall finish where god plea. here in my own country or in hell. all three be one. 
listen now sharer of the sorrow of my heart and i will tell of the hunt. i follow to peshawur from pubbi and i go to and fro about the street of peshawur like a houseless dog seek for my enemy. once i think i saw him wash his mouth in the conduit in the big square but when i come up he be go. it may be that it be he and see my face he have flee. 
a girl of the bazar say that he would go to nowshera. i say. o heart s heart doe daoud shah visit thee. and she say. even so. i say. i would fain see him for we be friend part for two year. hide me i pray here in the shadow of the window shutter and i will wait for his come. and the girl say. o pathan look into my eye. and i turn lean upon her breast and look into her eye swear that i speak the very truth of god. but she answer. never friend wait friend with such eye. lie to god and the prophet but to a woman ye cannot lie. get hence. there shall be no harm befall daoud shah by cause of me. 
i would have strangle that girl but for the fear of your police. and thus the hunt would have come to naught. therefore i only laugh and depart and she lean over the window bar in the night and mock me down the street. her name be jamun. when i have make my account with the man i will return to peshawur and her lover shall desire her no more for her beauty s sake. she shall not be jamun but ak_ the cripple among tree. ho. ho. ak shall she be. 
at peshawur i buy the horse and grape and the almond and dry fruit that the reason of my wandering might be open to the government and that there might be no hindrance upon the road. but when i come to nowshera he be go and i know not where to go. i stay one day at nowshera and in the night a voice speak in my ear a i sleep among the horse. all night it fly round my head and would not cease from whisper. i be upon my belly sleep a the devil sleep and it may have be that the voice be the voice of a devil. it say. go south and thou shalt come upon daoud shah. listen my brother and chief among friend listen. be the tale a long one. think how it be long to me. i have tread every league of the road from pubbi to this place. and from nowshera my guide be only the voice and the lust of vengeance. 
to the uttock i go but that be no hindrance to me. ho. ho. a man may turn the word twice even in his trouble. the uttock be no uttock. obstacle. to me. and i hear the voice above the noise of the water beat on the big rock say. go to the right. so i go to pindigheb and in those day my sleep be take from me utterly and the head of the woman of the abazai be before me night and day even a it have fall between my foot. dray wara yow dee. dray wara yow dee. fire ash and my couch all three be one all three be one. 
now i be far from the winter path of the dealer who have go to sialkot and so south by the rail and the big road to the line of cantonment. but there be a sahib in camp at pindigheb who buy from me a white mare at a good price and tell me that one daoud shah have pass to shahpur with horse. then i saw that the warn of the voice be true and make swift to come to the salt hill. the jhelum be in flood but i could not wait and in the cross a bay stallion be wash down and drown. herein be god hard to me not in respect of the beast of that i have no care but in this snatch. while i be upon the right bank urge the horse into the water daoud shah be upon the leave. for alghias. alghias. the hoof of my mare scatter the hot ash of his fire when we come up the hither bank in the light of morning. but he have flee. his foot be make swift by the terror of death. and i go south from shahpur a the kite fly. i dare not turn aside l i should miss my vengeance which be my right. from shahpur i skirt by the jhelum for i think that he would avoid the desert of the rechna. but presently at sahiwal i turn away upon the road to jhang samundri and gugera till upon a night the mottle mare breast the fence of the rail that turn to montgomery. and that place be okara and the head of the woman of the abazai lay upon the sand between my foot. 
thence i go to fazilka and they say that i be mad to bring starve horse there. the voice be with me and i be not mad but only weary because i could not find daoud shah. it be write that i should not find him at rania nor bahadurgarh and i come into delhi from the west and there also i find him not. my friend i have see many strange thing in my wandering. i have see devil riot across the rechna a the stallion riot in spring. i have hear the djinn call to each other from hole in the sand and i have see them pas before my face. there be no devil say the sahib. they be very wise but they do not know all thing about devil or horse. ho. ho. i say to you who be laugh at my misery that i have see the devil at high noon whoop and leap on the shoal of the chenab. and be i afraid. my brother when the desire of a man be set upon one thing alone he fear neither god nor man nor devil. if my vengeance fail i would splinter the gate of paradise with the butt of my gun or i would cut my way into hell with my knife and i would call upon those who govern there for the body of daoud shah. what love so deep a hate. 
do not speak. i know the think in your heart. be the white of this eye cloud. how doe the blood beat at the wrist. there be no madness in my flesh but only the vehemence of the desire that ha eat me up. listen. 
south of delhi i know not the country at all. therefore i cannot say where i go but i pass through many city. i know only that it be lay upon me to go south. when the horse could march no more i throw myself upon the earth and wait till the day. there be no sleep with me in that journey. and that be a heavy burden. dost thou know brother of mine the evil of wakefulness that cannot break when the bone be sore for lack of sleep and the skin of the temple twitch with weariness and yet there be no sleep there be no sleep. dray wara yow dee. dray wara yow dee. the eye of the sun the eye of the moon and my own unrestful eye all three be one all three be one. 
there be a city the name whereof i have forget and there the voice call all night. that be ten day ago. it ha cheat me afresh. 
i have come hither from a place call hamirpur and behold it be my fate that i should meet with thee to my comfort and the increase of friendship. this be a good omen. by the joy of look upon thy face the weariness ha go from my foot and the sorrow of my so long travel be forget. also my heart be peaceful. for i know that the end be near. 
it may be that i shall find daoud shah in this city go northward since a hillman will ever head back to his hill when the spring warn. and shall he see those hill of our country. surely i shall overtake him. surely my vengeance be safe. surely god hath him in the hollow of his hand against my claim. there shall no harm befall daoud shah till i come. for i would fain kill him quick and whole with the life stick firm in his body. a pomegranate be sweet when the clove break away unwilling from the rind. let it be in the daytime that i may see his face and my delight may be crown. 
and when i have accomplish the matter and my honour be make clean i shall return thank unto god the holder of the scale of the law and i shall sleep. from the night through the day and into the night again i shall sleep. and no dream shall trouble me. 
and now o my brother the tale be all tell. ahi. ahi. alghias. ahi. 
the judgment of dungara. 
see the pale martyr with his shirt on fire. printer s error. 
they tell the tale even now among the grove of the berbulda hill and for corroboration point to the roofless and windowless mission house. the great god dungara the god of thing a they be most terrible one eye bear the red elephant tusk do it all. and he who refuse to believe in dungara will assuredly be smite by the madness of yat the madness that fell upon the son and the daughter of the buria kol when they turn aside from dungara and put on clothe. so say athon daze* who be high priest of the shrine and warden of the red elephant tusk. but if you ask the assistant collector and agent in charge of the buria kol he will laugh not because he bear any malice against mission but because he himself saw the vengeance of dungara execute upon the spiritual child of the reverend justus krenk pastor of the tubingen mission and upon lotta his virtuous wife. 
[*transcriber s note. the e in athon daze ha an acute accent. ]. 
yet if ever a man merit good treatment of the god it be the reverend justus one time of heidelberg who on the faith of a call go into the wilderness and take the blonde blue eye lotta with him. we will these heathen now by idolatrous practice so darken good make say justus in the early day of his career. yes he add with conviction they shall be good and shall with their hand to work learn. for all good christian must work. and upon a stipend more modest even than that of an english lay reader justus krenk keep house beyond kamala and the gorge of malair beyond the berbulda river close to the foot of the blue hill of panth on whose summit stand the temple of dungara in the heart of the country of the buria kol the naked good temper timid shameless lazy buria kol. 
do you know what life at a mission outpost mean. try to imagine a loneliness exceed that of the small station to which government ha ever send you isolation that weigh upon the wake eyelid and drive you by force headlong into the labour of the day. there be no post there be no one of your own colour to speak to there be no road. there be indeed food to keep you alive but it be not pleasant to eat. and whatever of good or beauty or interest there be in your life must come from yourself and the grace that may be plant in you. 
in the morning with a patter of soft foot the convert the doubtful and the open scoffer troop up to the veranda. you must be infinitely kind and patient and above all clear sight for you deal with the simplicity of childhood the experience of man and the subtlety of the savage. your congregation have a hundred material want to be consider. and it be for you a you believe in your personal responsibility to your maker to pick out of the clamour crowd any grain of spirituality that may lie therein. if to the cure of soul you add that of body your task will be all the more difficult for the sick and the maim will profess any and every creed for the sake of heal and will laugh at you because you be simple enough to believe them. 
a the day wear and the impetus of the morning dy away there will come upon you an overwhelm sense of the uselessness of your toil. this must be strive against and the only spur in your side will be the belief that you be play against the devil for the live soul. it be a great a joyous belief. but he who can hold it unwavering for four and twenty consecutive hour must be bless with an abundantly strong physique and equable nerve. 
ask the gray head of the bannockburn medical crusade what manner of life their preacher lead. speak to the racine gospel agency those lean american whose boast be that they go where no englishman dare follow. get a pastor of the tubingen mission to talk of his experience if you can. you will be refer to the print report but these contain no mention of the men who have lose youth and health all that a man may lose except faith in the wild. of english maiden who have go forth and die in the fever stricken jungle of the panth hill know from the first that death be almost a certainty. few pastor will tell you of these thing any more than they will speak of that young david of st. bee who set apart for the lord s work break down in utter desolation and return half distraught to the head mission cry. there be no god but i have walk with the devil. 
the report be silent here because heroism failure doubt despair and self abnegation on the part of a mere culture white man be thing of no weight a compare to the save of one half human soul from a fantastic faith in wood spirit goblin of the rock and river fiend. 
and gallio the assistant collector of the country side care for none of these thing. he have be long in the district and the buria kol love him and bring him offering of spear fish orchid from the dim moist heart of the forest and a much game a he could eat. in return he give them quinine and with athon daze the high priest control their simple policy. 
when you have be some year in the country say gallio at the krenks table you grow to find one creed a good a another. i ll give you all the assistance in my power of course but don t hurt my buria kol. they be a good people and they trust me. 
i will them the word of the lord teach say justus his round face beam with enthusiasm and i will assuredly to their prejudice no wrong hastily without think make. but o my friend this in the mind impartiality of creed judgment be look be very bad. 
heigh ho. say gallio i have their body and the district to see to but you can try what you can do for their soul. only don t behave a your predecessor do or i m afraid that i can t guarantee your life. 
and that. say lotta sturdily hand him a cup of tea. 
he go up to the temple of dungara to be sure he be new to the country and begin hammer old dungara over the head with an umbrella. so the buria kol turn out and hammer him rather savagely. i be in the district and he send a runner to me with a note say. persecute for the lord s sake. send wing of regiment. the near troop be about two hundred mile off but i guess what he have be do. i ride to panth and talk to old athon daze like a father tell him that a man of his wisdom ought to have know that the sahib have sunstroke and be mad. you never saw a people more sorry in your life. athon daze apologise send wood and milk and fowl and all sort of thing. and i give five rupee to the shrine and tell macnamara that he have be injudicious. he say that i have bow down in the house of rimmon. but if he have only just go over the brow of the hill and insult palin deo the idol of the suria kol he would have be impale on a char bamboo long before i could have do anything and then i should have have to have hang some of the poor brute. be gentle with them padri but i don t think you ll do much. 
not i say justus but my master. we will with the little child begin. many of them will be sick that be so. after the child the mother. and then the men. but i would greatly that you be in internal sympathy with u prefer. 
gallio depart to risk his life in mend the rotten bamboo bridge of his people in kill a too persistent tiger here or there in sleep out in the reek jungle or in track the suria kol raider who have take a few head from their brother of the buria clan. he be a knock kneed shamble young man naturally devoid of creed or reverence with a long for absolute power which his undesirable district gratify. 
no one want my post he use to say grimly and my collector only poke his nose in when he s quite certain that there be no fever. i m monarch of all i survey and athon daze be my viceroy. 
because gallio pride himself on his supreme disregard of human life though he never extend the theory beyond his own he naturally ride forty mile to the mission with a tiny brown girl baby on his saddle bow. 
here be something for you padri say he. the kols leave their surplus child to die. don t see why they shouldn t but you may rear this one. i pick it up beyond the berbulda fork. i ve a notion that the mother ha be follow me through the wood ever since. 
it be the first of the fold say justus and lotta catch up the scream morsel to her bosom and hush it craftily. while a a wolf hang in the field matui who have bear it and in accordance with the law of her tribe have expose it to die pant weary and footsore in the bamboo brake watch the house with hungry mother eye. what would the omnipotent assistant collector do. would the little man in the black coat eat her daughter alive a athon daze say be the custom of all men in black coat. 
matui wait among the bamboo through the long night. and in the morning there come forth a fair white woman the like of whom matui have never see and in her arm be matui s daughter clothe in spotless raiment. lotta know little of the tongue of the buria kol but when mother call to mother speech be easy to follow. by the hand stretch timidly to the hem of her gown by the passionate guttural and the long eye lotta understand with whom she have to deal. so matui take her child again would be a servant even a slave to this wonderful white woman for her own tribe would recognise her no more. and lotta weep with her exhaustively after the german fashion which include much blow of the nose. 
first the child then the mother and last the man and to the glory of god all say justus the hopeful. and the man come with a bow and arrow very angry indeed for there be no one to cook for him. 
but the tale of the mission be a long one and i have no space to show how justus forgetful of his injudicious predecessor grievously smite moto the husband of matui for his brutality. how moto be startle but be release from the fear of instant death take heart and become the faithful ally and first convert of justus. how the little gather grow to the huge disgust of athon daze. how the priest of the god of thing a they be argue subtilely with the priest of the god of thing a they should be and be worst. how the due of the temple of dungara fell away in fowl and fish and honeycomb. how lotta lighten the curse of eve among the woman and how justus do his best to introduce the curse of adam. how the buria kol rebel at this say that their god be an idle god and how justus partially overcome their scruple against work and teach them that the black earth be rich in other produce than pig nut only. 
all these thing belong to the history of many month and throughout those month the white haired athon daze meditate revenge for the tribal neglect of dungara. with savage cunning he feign friendship towards justus even hint at his own conversion. but to the congregation of dungara he say darkly. they of the padri s flock have put on clothe and worship a busy god. therefore dungara will afflict them grieviously till they throw themselves howl into the water of the berbulda. at night the red elephant tusk boom and groan among the hill and the faithful wake and say. the god of thing a they be mature revenge against the backslider. be merciful dungara to u thy child and give u all their crop. 
late in the cold weather the collector and his wife come into the buria kol country. go and look at krenk s mission say gallio. he be do good work in his own way and i think he d be please if you open the bamboo chapel that he ha manage to run up. at any rate you ll see a civilise buria kol. 
great be the stir in the mission. now he and the gracious lady will that we have do good work with their own eye see and yes we will him our convert in all their new clothe by their own hand construct exhibit. it will a great day be for the lord always say justus. and lotta say amen. 
justus have in his quiet way felt jealous of the basel weave mission his own convert be unhandy. but athon daze have latterly induce some of them to hackle the glossy silky fibre of a plant that grow plenteously on the panth hill. it yield a cloth white and smooth almost a the tappa of the south sea and that day the convert be to wear for the first time clothe make therefrom. justus be proud of his work. 
they shall in white clothe clothe to meet the collector and his well bear lady come down sing now thank we all our god. then he will the chapel open and yes even gallio to believe will begin. stand so my child two by two and lotta why do they thus themselves bescratch. it be not seemly to wriggle nala my child. the collector will be here and be pain. 
the collector his wife and gallio climb the hill to the mission station. the convert be draw up in two line a shin band nearly forty strong. hah. say the collector whose acquisitive bend of mind lead him to believe that he have foster the institution from the first. advance i see by leap and bound. 
never be true word speak. the mission be advance exactly a he have say at first by little hop and shuffle of shamefaced uneasiness but soon by the leap of fly sting horse and the bound of madden kangaroo. from the hill of panth the red elephant tusk deliver a dry and anguish blare. the rank of the convert waver break and scatter with yell and shriek of pain while justus and lotta stand horror stricken. 
it be the judgment of dungara. shout a voice. i burn. i burn. to the river or we die. 
the mob wheel and head for the rock that over hang the berbulda writhe stamp twist and shed it garment a it run pursue by the thunder of the trumpet of dungara. justus and lotta flee to the collector almost in tear. 
i cannot understand. yesterday pant justus they have the ten commandment. what be this. praise the lord all good spirit by land and by sea. nala. oh shame. 
with a bind and a scream there alight on the rock above their head nala once the pride of the mission a maiden of fourteen summer good docile and virtuous now naked a the dawn and spit like a wild cat. 
be it for this. she rave hurl her petticoat at justus. be it for this i leave my people and dungara for the fire of your bad place. blind ape little earthworm dry fish that you be you say that i should never burn. o dungara i burn now. i burn now. have mercy god of thing a they be. 
she turn and fling herself into the berbulda and the trumpet of dungara bellow jubilantly. the last of the convert of the tubingen mission have put a quarter of a mile of rapid river between herself and her teacher. 
yesterday gulp justus she teach in the school a b c d. oh. it be the work of satan. 
but gallio be curiously regard the maiden s petticoat where it have fall at his foot. he felt it texture draw back his shirt sleeve beyond the deep tan of his wrist and press a fold of the cloth against the flesh. a blotch of angry red rise on the white skin. 
ah. say gallio calmly i think so. 
what be it. say justus. 
i should call it the shirt of nessus but where do you get the fibre of this cloth from. 
athon daze say justus. he show the boy how it should manufacture be. 
the old fox. do you know that he ha give you the nilgiri nettle scorpion girardenia heterophylla to work up. no wonder they squirm. why it sting even when they make bridge rope of it unless it s soak for six week. the cunning brute. it would take about half an hour to burn through their thick hide and then. 
gallio burst into laughter but lotta be weep in the arm of the collector s wife and justus have cover his face with his hand. 
girardenia heterophylla. repeat gallio. krenk why didn t you tell me. i could have save you this. weave fire. anybody but a naked kol would have know it and if i m a judge of their way you ll never get them back. 
he look across the river to where the convert be still wallow and wail in the shallow and the laughter die out of his eye for he saw that the tubingen mission to the buria kol be dead. 
never again though they hang mournfully round the desert school for three month could lotta or justus coax back even the most promise of their flock. no. the end of conversion be the fire of the bad place fire that run through the limb and gnaw into the bone. who dare a second time tempt the anger of dungara. let the little man and his wife go elsewhere. the buria kol would have none of them. an unofficial message to athon daze that if a hair of their head be touch athon daze and the priest of dungara would be hang by gallio at the temple shrine protect justus and lotta from the stumpy poison arrow of the buria kol but neither fish nor fowl honeycomb salt nor young pig be bring to their door any more. and ala. man cannot live by grace alone if meat be want. 
let u go mine wife say justus. there be no good here and the lord ha will that some other man shall the work take in good time in his own good time. we will go away and i will yes some botany bestudy. 
if any one be anxious to convert the buria kol afresh there lie at least the core of a mission house under the hill of panth. but the chapel and school have long since fall back into jungle. 
at howli thana. 
his own shoe his own head. native proverb. 
a a messenger if the heart of the presence be move to so great favour. and on six rupee. yes sahib for i have three little child whose stomach be always empty and corn be now but forty pound to the rupee. i will make so clever a messenger that you shall all day long be please with me and at the end of the year bestow a turban. i know all the road of the station and many other thing. aha sahib. i be clever. give me service. i be aforetime in the police. a bad character. now without doubt an enemy ha tell this tale. never be i a scamp. i be a man of clean heart and all my word be true. they know this when i be in the police. they say. afzal khan be a true speaker in whose word men may trust. i be a delhi pathan sahib all delhi pathan be good men. you have see delhi. yes it be true that there be many scamp among the delhi pathan. how wise be the sahib. nothing be hide from his eye and he will make me his messenger and i will take all his note secretly and without ostentation. nay sahib god be my witness that i mean no evil. i have long desire to serve under a true sahib a virtuous sahib. many young sahib be a devil unchain. with these sahib i would take no service not though all the stomach of my little child be cry for bread. 
why be i not still in the police. i will speak true talk. an evil come to the thana to ram baksh the havildar and maula baksh and juggut ram and bhim singh and suruj bul. ram baksh be in the jail for a space and so also be maula baksh. 
it be at the thana of howli on the road that lead to gokral seetarun wherein be many dacoit. we be all brave men rustums. wherefore we be send to that thana which be eight mile from the next thana. all day and all night we watch for dacoit. why doe the sahib laugh. nay i will make a confession. the dacoit be too clever and see this we make no further trouble. it be in the hot weather. what can a man do in the hot day. be the sahib who be so strong be he even vigorous in that hour. we make an arrangement with the dacoit for the sake of peace. that be the work of the havildar who be fat. ho. ho. sahib he be now get thin in the jail among the carpet. the havildar say. give u no trouble and we will give you no trouble. at the end of the reap send u a man to lead before the judge a man of infirm mind against whom the trump up case will break down thus we shall save our honour. to this talk the dacoit agree and we have no trouble at the thana and could eat melon in peace sit upon our charpoys all day long. sweet a sugar cane be the melon of howli. 
now there be an assistant commissioner a stunt sahib in that district call yunkum sahib. aha. he be hard hard even a be the sahib who without doubt will give me the shadow of his protection. many eye have yunkum sahib and move quickly through his district. men call him the tiger of gokral seetarun because he would arrive unannounced and make his kill and before sunset would be give trouble to the tehsildars thirty mile away. no one know the coming or the going of yunkum sahib. he have no camp and when his horse be weary he ride upon a devil carriage. i do not know it name but the sahib sit in the midst of three silver wheel that make no creak and drave them with his leg prance like a bean feed horse thus. a shadow of a hawk upon the field be not more without noise than the devil carriage of yunkum sahib. it be here. it be there. it be go. and the rapport be make and there be trouble. ask the tehsildar of rohestri how the hen steal come to be know sahib. 
it fell upon a night that we of the thana sleep accord to custom upon our charpoys have eat the even meal and drink tobacco. when we awake in the morning behold of our six rifle not one remain. also the big police book that be in the havildar s charge be go. see these thing we be very much afraid think on our part that the dacoit regardless of honour have come by night and put u to shame. then say ram baksh the havildar. be silent. the business be an evil business but it may yet go well. let u make the case complete. bring a kid and my tulwar. see you not now o fool. a kick for a horse but a word be enough for a man. 
we of the thana perceive quickly what be in the mind of the havildar and greatly fear that the service would be lose make haste to take the kid into the inner room and attend to the word of the havildar. twenty dacoit come say the havildar and we take his word repeat after him accord to custom. there be a great fight say the havildar and of u no man escape unhurt. the bar of the window be break. suruj bul see thou to that. and o men put speed into your work for a runner must go with the news to the tiger of gokral seetarun. thereon suruj bul lean with his shoulder brake in the bar of the window and i beat her with a whip make the havildar s mare skip among the melon bed till they be much tread with hoof print. 
these thing be make i return to the thana and the goat be slay and certain portion of the wall be blacken with fire and each man dip his clothe a little into the blood of the goat. know o sahib that a wind make by man upon his own body can by those skilled be easily discern from a wind work by another man. therefore the havildar take his tulwar smite one of u lightly on the forearm in the fat and another on the leg and a third on the back of the hand. thus deal he with all of u till the blood come. and suruj bul more eager than the others take out much hair. o sahib never be so perfect an arrangement. yea even i would have swear that the thana have be treat a we say. there be smoke and break and blood and trample earth. 
ride now maula baksh say the havildar to the house of the stunt sahib and carry the news of the dacoity. do you also o afzal khan run there and take heed that you be mire with sweat and dust on your incoming. the blood will be dry on the clothe. i will stay and send a straight report to the dipty sahib and we will catch certain that ye know of villager so that all may be ready against the dipty sahib s arrival. 
thus maula baksh ride and i run hang on the stirrup and together we come in an evil plight before the tiger of gokral seetarun in the rohestri tehsil. our tale be long and correct sahib for we give even the name of the dacoit and the issue of the fight and beseech him to come. but the tiger make no sign and only smile after the manner of sahib when they have a wickedness in their heart. swear ye to the rapport. say he and we say. thy servant swear. the blood of the fight be but newly dry upon u. judge thou if it be the blood of the servant of the presence or not. and he say. i see. ye have do well. but he do not call for his horse or his devil carriage and scour the land a be his custom. he say. rest now and eat bread for ye be weary men. i will wait the come of the dipty sahib. 
now it be the order that the havildar of the thana should send a straight report of all dacoity to the dipty sahib. at noon come he a fat man and an old and overbear withal but we of the thana have no fear of his anger. dread more the silence of the tiger of gokral seetarun. with him come ram baksh the havildar and the others guard ten men of the village of howli all men evil affect towards the police of the sirkar. a prisoner they come the iron upon their hand cry for mercy imam baksh the farmer who have deny his wife to the havildar and others ill condition rascal against whom we of the thane bore spite. it be well do and the havildar be proud. but the dipty sahib be angry with the stunt for lack of zeal and say dam dam after the custom of the english people and extol the havildar. yunkum sahib lay still in his long chair. have the men swear. say yunkum sahib. aye and capture ten evildoer say the dipty sahib. there be more abroad in your charge. take horse ride and go in the name of the sirkar. truly there be more evil doer abroad say yunkum sahib but there be no need of a horse. come all men with me. 
i saw the mark of a string on the temple of imam baksh. doe the presence know the torture of the cold draw. i saw also the face of the tiger of gokral seeta run the evil smile be upon it and i stand back ready for what might befall. well it be sahib that i do this thing. yunkum sahib unlock the door of his bath room and smile anew. within lay the six rifle and the big police book of the thana of howli. he have come by night in the devil carriage that be noiseless a a ghoul and move among u asleep have take away both the gun and the book. twice have he come to the thana take each time three rifle. the liver of the havildar be turn to water and he fell scrabble in the dirt about the boot of yunkum sahib cry have mercy. 
and i. sahib i be a delhi pathan and a young man with little child. the havildar s mare be in the compound. i run to her and ride. the black wrath of the sirkar be behind me and i know not whither to go. till she drop and die i ride the red mare. and by the bless of god who be without doubt on the side of all just men i escape. but the havildar and the rest be now in jail. 
i be a scamp. it be a the presence plea. god will make the presence a lord and give him a rich mem sahib a fair a a peri to wife and many strong son if he make me his orderly. the mercy of heaven be upon the sahib. yes i will only go to the bazar and bring my child to these so palace like quarter and then the presence be my father and my mother and i afzal khan be his slave. 
ohe sirdar ji. i also be of the household of the sahib. 
gemini. 
great be the justice of the white man great the power of a lie. native proverb. 
this be your english justice protector of the poor. look at my back and loin which be beat with stick heavy stick. i be a poor man and there be no justice in court. 
there be two of u and we be bear of one birth but i swear to you that i be bear the first and ram das be the young by three full breath. the astrologer say so and it be write in my horoscope the horoscope of durga das. 
but we be alike i and my brother who be a beast without honour so alike that none know together or apart which be durga das. i be a mahajun of pali in marwar and an honest man. this be true talk. when we be men we leave our father s house in pali and go to the punjab where all the people be mud head and son of ass. we take shop together in isser jang i and my brother near the big well where the governor s camp draw water. but ram das who be without truth make quarrel with me and we be divide. he take his book and his pot and his mark and become a bunnia a money lender in the long street of isser jang near the gateway of the road that go to montgomery. it be not my fault that we pull each other s turban. i be a mahajun of pali and i always speak true talk. ram das be the thief and the liar. 
now no man not even the little child could at one glance see which be ram das and which be durga das. but all the people of isser jang may they die without son. say that we be thief. they use much bad talk but i take money on their bedstead and their cook pot and the stand crop and the calf unborn from the well in the big square to the gate of the montgomery road. they be fool these people unfit to cut the toe nail of a marwari from pali. i lend money to them all. a little very little only here a pice and there a pice. god be my witness that i be a poor man. the money be all with ram das may his son turn christian and his daughter be a burn fire and a shame in the house from generation to generation. may she die unwed and be the mother of a multitude of bastard. let the light go out in the house of ram das my brother. this i pray daily twice with offering and charm. 
thus the trouble begin. we divide the town of isser jang between u i and my brother. there be a landholder beyond the gate live but one short mile out on the road that lead to montgomery and his name be muhammad shah son of a nawab. he be a great devil and drink wine. so long a there be woman in his house and wine and money for the marriage feast he be merry and wipe his mouth. ram das lend him the money a lakh or half a lakh how do i know. and so long a the money be lend the landholder care not what he sign. 
the people of isser jang be my portion and the landholder and the out town be the portion of ram das. for so we have arrange. i be the poor man for the people of isser jang be without wealth. i do what i could but ram das have only to wait without the door of the landholder s garden court and to lend him the money. take the bond from the hand of the steward. 
in the autumn of the year after the lend ram das say to the landholder. pay me my money but the landholder give him abuse. but ram das go into the court with the paper and the bond all correct and take out decree against the landholder. and the name of the government be across the stamp of the decree. ram das take field by field and mango tree by mango tree and well by well. put in his own men debtor of the out town of isser jang to cultivate the crop. so he creep up across the land for he have the paper and the name of the government be across the stamp till his men hold the crop for him on all side of the big white house of the landholder. it be well do. but when the landholder saw these thing he be very angry and curse ram das after the manner of the muhammadan. 
and thus the landholder be angry but ram das laugh and claim more field a be write upon the bond. this be in the month of phagun. i take my horse and go out to speak to the man who make lac bangle upon the road that lead to montgomery because he owe me a debt. there be in front of me upon his horse my brother ram das. and when he saw me he turn aside into the high crop because there be hatred between u. and i go forward till i come to the orange bush by the landholder s house. the bat be fly and the even smoke be low down upon the land. here meet me four men swashbuckler and muhammadan with their face bind up lay hold of my horse s bridle and cry out. this be ram das. beat. me they beat with their stave heavy stave bind about with wire at the end such weapon a those swine of punjabi use till have cry for mercy i fell down senseless. but these shameless one still beat me say. o ram das this be your interest well weigh and count into your hand ram das. i cry aloud that i be not ram das but durga das his brother yet they only beat me the more and when i could make no more outcry they leave me. but i saw their face. there be elahi baksh who run by the side of the landholder s white horse and nur ali the keeper of the door and wajib ali the very strong cook and abdul latif the messenger all of the household of the landholder. these thing i can swear on the cow s tail if need be but ahi. ahi. it ha be already swear and i be a poor man whose honour be lose. 
when these four have go away laugh my brother ram das come out of the crop and mourn over me a one dead. but i open my eye and pray him to get me water. when i have drink he carry me on his back and by byway bring me into the town of isser jang. my heart be turn to ram das my brother in that hour because of his kindness and i lose my enmity. 
but a snake be a snake till it be dead. and a liar be a liar till the judgment of the god take hold of his heel. i be wrong in that i trust my brother the son of my mother. 
when we have come to his house and i be a little restore i tell him my tale and he say. without doubt it be me whom they would have beat. but the law court be open and there be the justice of the sirkar above all. and to the law court do thou go when this sickness be overpast. 
now when we two have leave pali in the old year there fell a famine that run from jeysulmir to gurgaon and touch gogunda in the south. at that time the sister of my father come away and live with u in isser jang. for a man must above all see that his folk do not die of want. when the quarrel between u twain come about the sister of my father a lean she dog without teeth say that ram das have the right and go with him. into her hand because she know medicine and many cure ram das my brother put me faint with the beat and much bruise even to the pour of blood from the mouth. when i have two day sickness the fever come upon me. and i set aside the fever to the account write in my mind against the landholder. 
the punjabi of isser jang be all the son of belial and a she as but they be very good witness bear testimony unshakingly whatever the pleader may say. i would purchase witness by the score and each man should give evidence not only against nur ali wajib ali abdul latif and elahi baksh but against the landholder say that he upon his white horse have call his men to beat me. and further that they have rob me of two hundred rupee. for the latter testimony i would remit a little of the debt of the man who sell the lac bangle and he should say that he have put the money into my hand and have see the robbery from afar but be afraid have run away. this plan i tell to my brother ram das. and he say that the arrangement be good and bid me take comfort and make swift work to be abroad again. my heart be open to my brother in my sickness and i tell him the name of those whom i would call a witness all men in my debt but of that the magistrate sahib could have no knowledge nor the landholder. the fever stay with me and after the fever i be take with colic and griping very terrible. in that day i think that my end be at hand but i know now that she who give me the medicine the sister of my father a widow with a widow s heart have bring about my second sickness. ram das my brother say that my house be shut and lock and bring me the big door key and my book together with all the money that be in my house even the money that be bury under the floor. for i be in great fear l thief should break in and dig. i speak true talk. there be but very little money in the house. perhaps ten rupee perhaps twenty. how can i tell. god be my witness that i be a poor man. 
one night when i have tell ram das all that be in my heart of the lawsuit that i would bring against the landholder and ram das have say that he have make the arrangement with the witness give me their name write i be take with a new great sickness and they put me on the bed. when i be a little recover i cannot tell how many day afterwards i make enquiry for ram das and the sister of my father say that he have go to montgomery upon a lawsuit. i take medicine and sleep very heavily without wake. when my eye be open there be a great stillness in the house of ram das and none answer when i call not even the sister of my father. this fill me with fear for i know not what have happen. 
take a stick in my hand i go out slowly till i come to the great square by the well and my heart be hot in me against the landholder because of the pain of every step i take. 
i call for jowar singh the carpenter whose name be first upon the list of those who should bear evidence against the landholder say. be all thing ready and do you know what should be say. 
jowar singh answer. what be this and whence do you come durga das. 
i say. from my bed where i have so long lie sick because of the landholder. where be ram das my brother who be to have make the arrangement for the witness. surely you and yours know these thing. 
then jowar singh say. what ha this to do with u o liar. i have bear witness and i have be pay and the landholder ha by the order of the court pay both the five hundred rupee that he rob from ram das and yet other five hundred because of the great injury he do to your brother. 
the well and the jujube tree above it and the square of isser jang become dark in my eye but i lean on my stick and say. nay. this be child s talk and senseless. it be i who suffer at the hand of the landholder and i be come to make ready the case. where be my brother ram das. 
but jowar singh shake his head and a woman cry. what lie be here. what quarrel have the landholder with you bunnia. it be only a shameless one and one without faith who profit by his brother s smart. have these bunnias no bowel. 
i cry again say. by the cow by the oath of the cow by the temple of the blue throated mahadeo i and i only be beat beat to the death. let your talk be straight o people of isser jang and i will pay for the witness. and i totter where i stand for the sickness and the pain of the beat be heavy upon me. 
then ram narain who ha his carpet spread under the jujube tree by the well and write all letter for the men of the town come up and say. to day be the one and fortieth day since the beat and since these six day the case ha be judge in the court and the assistant commissioner sahib ha give it for your brother ram das allow the robbery to which too i bore witness and all thing else a the witness say. there be many witness and twice ram das become senseless in the court because of his wound and the stunt sahib the baba stunt sahib give him a chair before all the pleader. why do you howl durga das. these thing fell a i have say. be it not so. 
and jowar singh say. that be truth. i be there and there be a red cushion in the chair. 
and ram narain say. great shame ha come upon the landholder because of this judgment and fear his anger ram das and all his house have go back to pali. ram das tell u that you also have go first the enmity be heal between you to open a shop in pali. indeed it be well for you that you go even now for the landholder ha swear that if he catch any one of your house he will hang him by the heel from the well beam and swing him to and fro will beat him with stave till the blood run from his ear. what i have say in respect to the case be true a these men here can testify even to the five hundred rupee. 
i say. be it five hundred. and kirpa ram the jat say. five hundred. for i bore witness also. 
and i groan for it have be in my heart to have say two hundred only. 
then a new fear come upon me and my bowel turn to water and run swiftly to the house of ram das i seek for my book and my money in the great wooden chest under my bedstead. there remain nothing. not even a cowrie s value. all have be take by the devil who say he be my brother. i go to my own house also and open the board of the shutter. but there also be nothing save the rat among the grain basket. in that hour my sens leave me and tear my clothe i run to the well place cry out for the justice of the english on my brother ram das and in my madness tell all that the book be lose. when men saw that i would have jump down the well they believe the truth of my talk. more especially because upon my back and bosom be still the mark of the stave of the landholder. 
jowar singh the carpenter withstand me and turn me in his hand for he be a very strong man show the scar upon my body and bow down with laughter upon the well curb. he cry aloud so that all hear him from the well square to the caravanserai of the pilgrim. oho. the jackal have quarrel and the gray one ha be catch in the trap. in truth this man ha be grievously beat and his brother ha take the money which the court decree. oh bunnia this shall be tell for year against you. the jackal have quarrel and moreover the book be burn. o people indebted to durga das and i know that ye be many the book be burn. 
then all isser jang take up the cry that the book be burn ahi. ahi. that in my folly i have let that escape my mouth and they laugh throughout the city. they give me the abuse of the punjabi which be a terrible abuse and very hot. pelt me also with stick and cow dung till i fell down and cry for mercy. 
ram narain the letter writer bid the people cease for fear that the news should get into montgomery and the policeman might come down to enquire. he say use many bad word. this much mercy will i do to you durga das though there be no mercy in your dealing with my sister s son over the matter of the dun heifer. ha any man a pony on which he set no store that this fellow may escape. if the landholder hear that one of the twain. and god know whether he beat one or both but this man be certainly beat. be in the city there will be a murder do and then will come the police make inquisition into each man s house and eat the sweet seller s stuff all day long. 
kirpa ram the jat say. i have a pony very sick. but with beat he can be make to walk for two mile. if he dy the hide seller will have the body. 
then chumbo the hide seller say. i will pay three anna for the body and will walk by this man s side till such time a the pony dy. if it be more than two mile i will pay two anna only. 
kirpa ram say. be it so. men bring out the pony and i ask leave to draw a little water from the well because i be dry up with fear. 
then ram narain say. here be four anna. god ha bring you very low durga das and i would not send you away empty even though the matter of my sister s son s dun heifer be an open sore between u. it be a long way to your own country. go and if it be so will live. but above all do not take the pony s bridle for that be mine. 
and i go out of isser jang amid the laugh of the huge thighed jat and the hide seller walk by my side wait for the pony to fall dead. in one mile it die and be full of fear of the landholder i run till i could run no more and come to this place. 
but i swear by the cow i swear by all thing whereon hindu and musalmans and even the sahib swear that i and not my brother be beat by the landholder. but the case be shut and the door of the law court be shut and god know where the baba stunt sahib the mother s milk be not yet dry upon his hairless lip be go. ahi. ahi. i i have no witness and the scar will heal and i be a poor man. but on my father s soul on the oath of a mahajun from pali i and not my brother i be beat by the landholder. 
what can i do. the justice of the english be a a great river. have go forward it doe not return. howbeit do you sahib take a pen and write clearly what i have say that the dipty sahib may see and reprove the stunt sahib who be a colt yet unlicked by the mare so young be he. i and not my brother be beat and he be go to the west i do not know where. 
but above all thing write so that sahib may read and his disgrace be accomplish that ram das my brother son of purun das mahajun of pali be a swine and a night thief a taker of life an eater of flesh a jackal spawn without beauty or faith or cleanliness or honour. 
at twenty two. 
narrow a the womb deep a the pit and dark a the heart of a man. sonthal miner s proverb. 
a weaver go out to reap but stay to unravel the corn stalk. ha. ha. ha. be there any sense in a weaver. 
janki meah glare at kundoo but a janki meah be blind kundoo be not impress. he have come to argue with janki meah and if chance favour to make love to the old man s pretty young wife. 
this be kundoo s grievance and he speak in the name of all the five men who with janki meah compose the gang in number seven gallery of twenty two. janki meah have be blind for the thirty year during which he have serve the jimahari colliery with pick and crowbar. all through those thirty year he have regularly every morning before go down draw from the overseer his allowance of lamp oil just a if he have be an eye miner. what kundoo s gang resent a hundred of gang have resent before be janki meah s selfishness. he would not add the oil to the common stock of his gang but would save and sell it. 
i know these working before you be bear janki meah use to reply. i don t want the light to get my coal out by and i be not go to help you. the oil be mine and i intend to keep it. 
a strange man in many way be janki meah the white haired hot temper sightless weaver who have turn pitman. all day long except on sunday and monday when he be usually drink he work in the twenty two shaft of the jimahari colliery a cleverly a a man with all the sens. at even he go up in the great steam haul cage to the pit bank and there call for his pony a rusty coal dusty beast nearly a old a janki meah. the pony would come to his side and janki meah would clamber on to it back and be take at once to the plot of land which he like the other miner receive from the jimahari company. the pony know that place and when after six year the company change all the allotment to prevent the miner from acquire proprietary right janki meah represent with tear in his eye that be his hold shift he would never be able to find his way to the new one. my horse only know that place plead janki meah and so he be allow to keep his land. 
on the strength of this concession and his accumulate oil saving janki meah take a second wife a girl of the jolaha main stock of the meahs and singularly beautiful. janki meah could not see her beauty. wherefore he take her on trust and forbid her to go down the pit. he have not work for thirty year in the dark without know that the pit be no place for pretty woman. he load her with ornament not brass or pewter but real silver one and she reward him by flirt outrageously with kundoo of number seven gallery gang. kundoo be really the gang head but janki meah insist upon all the work be enter in his own name and choose the men that he work with. custom strong even than the jimahari company dictate that janki by right of his year should manage these thing and should also work despite his blindness. in indian mine where they cut into the solid coal with the pick and clear it out from floor to ceiling he could come to no great harm. at home where they undercut the coal and bring it down in crash avalanche from the roof he would never have be allow to set foot in a pit. he be not a popular man because of his oil saving. but all the gang admit that janki know all the khads or working that have ever be sink or work since the jimahari company first start operation on the tarachunda field. 
pretty little unda only know that her old husband be a fool who could be manage. she take no interest in the colliery except in so far a they swallow up kundoo five day out of the seven and cover him with coal dust. kundoo be a great workman and do his best not to get drink because when he have save forty rupee unda be to steal everything that she could find in janki s house and run with kundoo to a land where there be no mine and every one keep three fat bullock and a milch buffalo. while this scheme ripen it be his custom to drop in upon janki and worry him about the oil saving. unda sit in a corner and nod approval. on the night when kundoo have quote that objectionable proverb about weaver janki grow angry. 
listen you pig say he blind i be and old i be but before ever you be bear i be gray among the coal. even in the day when the twenty two khad be unsunk and there be not two thousand men here i be know to have all knowledge of the pit. what khad be there that i do not know from the bottom of the shaft to the end of the last drive. be it the baromba khad the old or the twenty two where tibu s gallery run up to number five. 
hear the old fool talk. say kundoo nod to unda. no gallery of twenty two will cut into five before the end of the rain. we have a month s solid coal before u. the babuji say so. 
babuji. pigji. dogji. what do these fat slug from calcutta know. he draw and draw and draw and talk and talk and talk and his map be all wrong. i janki know that this be so. when a man ha be shut up in the dark for thirty year god give him knowledge. the old gallery that tibu s gang make be not six foot from number five. 
without doubt god give the blind knowledge say kundoo with a look at unda. let it be a you say. i for my part do not know where lie the gallery of tibu s gang but i be not a wither monkey who need oil to grease his joint with. 
kundoo swing out of the hut laugh and unda giggle. janki turn his sightless eye towards his wife and swear. i have land and i have sell a great deal of lamp oil muse janki. but i be a fool to marry this child. 
a week late the rain set in with a vengeance and the gang paddle about in coal slush at the pit bank. then the big mine pump be make ready and the manager of the colliery plough through the wet towards the tarachunda river swell between it soppy bank. lord send that this beastly beck doesn t misbehave say the manager piously and he go to take counsel with his assistant about the pump. 
but the tarachunda misbehave very much indeed. after a fall of three inch of rain in an hour it be oblige to do something. it top it bank and join the flood water that be hem between two low hill just where the embankment of the colliery main line cross. when a large part of a rain feed river and a few acre of flood water make a dead set for a nine foot culvert the culvert may spout it fine but the water cannot all get out. the manager prance upon one leg with excitement and his language be improper. 
he have reason to swear because he know that one inch of water on land mean a pressure of one hundred ton to the acre. and here be about five foot of water form behind the railway embankment over the shallow working of twenty two. you must understand that in a coal mine the coal near the surface be work first from the central shaft. that be to say the miner may clear out the stuff to within ten twenty or thirty foot of the surface and when all be work out leave only a skin of earth uphold by some few pillar of coal. in a deep mine where they know that they have any amount of material at hand men prefer to get all their mineral out at one shaft rather than make a number of little hole to tap the comparatively unimportant surface coal. 
and the manager watch the flood. 
the culvert spout a nine foot gush. but the water still form and word be send to clear the men out of twenty two. the cage come up cram and cram again with the men near the pit eye a they call the place where you can see daylight from the bottom of the main shaft. all away and away up the long black gallery the flare lamp be wink and dance like so many firefly and the men and the woman wait for the clank rattle thunder cage to come down and fly up again. but the out working be very far off and word could not be pass quickly though the head of the gang and the assistant shout and swear and tramp and stumble. the manager keep one eye on the great trouble pool behind the embankment and pray that the culvert would give way and let the water through in time. with the other eye he watch the cage come up and saw the headman count the roll of the gang. with all his heart and soul he swear at the winder who control the iron drum that wind up the wire rope on which hang the cage. 
in a little time there be a down draw in the water behind the embankment a suck whirlpool all yellow and yeasty. the water have smash through the skin of the earth and be pour into the old shallow working of twenty two. 
deep down below a rush of black water catch the last gang wait for the cage and a they clamber in the whirl be about their waist. the cage reach the pit bank and the manager call the roll. the gang be all safe except gang janki gang mogul and gang rahim eighteen men with perhaps ten basket woman who load the coal into the little iron carriage that run on the tramway of the main gallery. these gang be in the out working three quarter of a mile away on the extreme fringe of the mine. once more the cage go down but with only two englishman in it and drop into a swirl roar current that have almost touch the roof of some of the low side gallery. one of the wooden balk with which they have prop the old working shoot past on the current just miss the cage. 
if we don t want our rib knock out we d good go say the manager. we can t even save the company s prop. 
the cage draw out of the water with a splash and a few minute late it be officially report that there be at least ten foot of water in the pit s eye. now ten foot of water there mean that all other place in the mine be flood except such gallery a be more than ten foot above the level of the bottom of the shaft. the deep working would be full the main gallery would be full but in the high working reach by incline from the main road there would be a certain amount of air cut off so to speak by the water and squeeze up by it. the little science primer explain how water behave when you pour it down test tube. the flood of twenty two be an illustration on a large scale. 
by the holy grove what ha happen to the air. it be a sonthal gangman of gang mogul in number nine gallery and he be drive a six foot way through the coal. then there be a rush from the other gallery and gang janki and gang rahim stumble up with their basket woman. 
water ha come in the mine they say and there be no way of get out. 
i go down say janki down the slope of my gallery and i felt the water. 
there ha be no water in the cut in our time clamour the woman. why cannot we go away. 
be silent. say janki. long ago when my father be here water come to ten no eleven cut and there be great trouble. let u get away to where the air be good. 
the three gang and the basket woman leave number nine gallery and go further up number sixteen. at one turn of the road they could see the pitchy black water lap on the coal. it have touch the roof of a gallery that they know well a gallery where they use to smoke their huqas and manage their flirtation. see this they call aloud upon their god and the meahs who be thrice bastered muhammadan strive to recollect the name of the prophet. they come to a great open square whence nearly all the coal have be extract. it be the end of the out working and the end of the mine. 
far away down the gallery a small pump engine use for keep dry a deep work and feed with steam from above be throb faithfully. they hear it cease. 
they have cut off the steam say kundoo hopefully. they have give the order to use all the steam for the pit bank pump. they will clear out the water. 
if the water ha reach the smoke gallery say janki all the company s pump can do nothing for three day. 
it be very hot moan jasoda the meah basket woman. there be a very bad air here because of the lamp. 
put them out say janki. why do you want lamp. the lamp be put out and the company sit still in the utter dark. somebody rise quietly and begin walk over the coal. it be janki who be touch the wall with his hand. where be the ledge. he murmur to himself. 
sit sit. say kundoo. if we die we die. the air be very bad. 
but janki still stumble and creep and tap with his pick upon the wall. the woman rise to their foot. 
stay all where you be. without the lamp you cannot see and i i be always see say janki. then he pause and call out. oh you who have be in the cut more than ten year what be the name of this open place. i be an old man and i have forget. 
bullia s room answer the sonthal who have complain of the vileness of the air. 
again say janki. 
bullia s room. 
then i have find it say janki. the name only have slip my memory. tibu s gang s gallery be here. 
a lie say kundoo. there have be no gallery in this place since my day. 
three pace be the depth of the ledge mutter janki without heed and oh my poor bone. i have find it. it be here up this ledge. come all you one by one to the place of my voice and i will count you. 
there be a rush in the dark and janki felt the first man s face hit his knee a the sonthal scramble up the ledge. 
who. cry janki. 
i sunua manji. 
sit you down say janki. who next. 
one by one the woman and the men crawl up the ledge which run along one side of bullia s room. degrade muhammadan pig eat musahr and wild sonthal janki run his hand over them all. 
now follow after say he catch hold of my heel and the woman catch the men s clothe. he do not ask whether the men have bring their pick with them. a miner black or white doe not drop his pick. one by one janki lead they creep into the old gallery a six foot way with a scant four foot from hill to roof. 
the air be good here say jasoda. they could hear her heart beat in thick sick bump. 
slowly slowly say janki. i be an old man and i forget many thing. this be tibu s gallery but where be the four brick where they use to put their huqa fire on when the sahib never saw. slowly slowly o you people behind. 
they hear his hand disturb the small coal on the floor of the gallery and then a dull sound. this be one unbaked brick and this be another and another. kundoo be a young man let him come forward. put a knee upon this brick and strike here. when tibu s gang be at dinner on the last day before the good coal end they hear the men of five on the other side and five work their gallery two sunday late or it may have be one. strike there kundoo but give me room to go back. 
kundoo doubt drive the pick but the first soft crush of the coal be a call to him. he be fight for his life and for unda pretty little unda with ring on all her toe for unda and the forty rupee. the woman sing the song of the pick the terrible slow swing melody with the mutter chorus that repeat the slide of the loosen coal and to each cadence kundoo smite in the black dark. when he could do no more sunua manji take the pick and strike for his life and his wife and his village beyond the blue hill over the tarachunda river. an hour the men work and then the woman clear away the coal. 
it be farther than i think say janki. the air be very bad. but strike kundoo strike hard. 
for the fifth time kundoo take up the pick a the sonthal crawl back. the song have scarcely recommence when it be break by a yell from kundoo that echo down the gallery. par hua. par hua. we be through we be through. the imprison air in the mine shoot through the open and the woman at the far end of the gallery hear the water rush through the pillar of bullia s room and roar against the ledge. have fulfil the law under which it work it rise no farther. the woman scream and press forward. the water ha come we shall be kill. let u go. 
kundoo crawl through the gap and find himself in a prop gallery by the simple process of hit his head against a beam. 
do i know the pit or do i not. chuckle janki. this be the number five. go you out slowly give me your name. ho. rahim count your gang. now let u go forward each catch hold of the other a before. 
they form a line in the darkness and janki lead them for a pit man in a strange pit be only one degree le liable to err than an ordinary mortal underground for the first time. at last they saw a flare lamp and gang janki mogul and rahim of twenty two stumble daze into the glare of the draught furnace at the bottom of five. janki feel his way and the rest behind. 
water ha come into twenty two. god know where be the others. i have bring these men from tibu s gallery in our cut. make connection through the north side of the gallery. take u to the cage say janki meah. 
at the pit bank of twenty two some thousand people clamour and weep and shout. one hundred men one thousand men have be drown in the cut. they would all go to their home to morrow. where be their men. little unda her cloth drench with the rain stand at the pit mouth call down the shaft for kundoo. they have swing the cage clear of the mouth and her only answer be the murmur of the flood in the pit s eye two hundred and sixty foot below. 
look after that woman. she ll chuck herself down the shaft in a minute shout the manager. 
but he need not have trouble. unda be afraid of death. she want kundoo. the assistant be watch the flood and see how far he could wade into it. there be a lull in the water and the whirlpool have slacken. the mine be full and the people at the pit bank howl. 
my faith we shall be lucky if we have five hundred hand on the place to morrow. say the manager. 
there s some chance yet of run a temporary dam across that water. shove in anything tub and bullock cart if you haven t enough brick. make them work now if they never work before. hi. you ganger make them work. 
little by little the crowd be break into detachment and push towards the water with promise of overtime. the dam make begin and when it be fairly under way the manager think that the hour have come for the pump. there be no fresh inrush into the mine. the tall red iron clamp pump beam rise and fell and the pump snore and gutter and shriek a the first water pour out of the pipe. 
we must run her all to night say the manager wearily but there s no hope for the poor devil down below. look here gur sahai if you be proud of your engine show me what they can do now. 
gur sahai grin and nod with his right hand upon the lever and an oil can in his leave. he could do no more than he be do but he could keep that up till the dawn. be the company s pump to be beat by the vagary of that troublesome tarachunda river. never never. and the pump sob and pant. never never. the manager sit in the shelter of the pit bank roof try to dry himself by the pump boiler fire and in the dreary dusk he saw the crowd on the dam scatter and fly. 
that s the end he groan. twill take u six week to persuade em that we haven t try to drown their mate on purpose. oh for a decent rational geordie. 
but the flight have no panic in it. men have run over from five with astound news and the foreman could not hold their gang together. presently surround by a clamorous crew gang rahim mogul and janki and ten basket woman walk up to report themselves and pretty little unda steal away to janki s hut to prepare his even meal. 
alone i find the way explain janki meah and now will the company give me pension. 
the simple pit folk shout and leap and go back to the dam reassure in their old belief that whatever happen so great be the power of the company whose salt they eat none of them could be kill. but gur sahai only bar his white teeth and keep his hand upon the lever and prove his pump to the uttermost. 
i say say the assistant to the manager a week late do you recollect germinal. 
yes. queer thing. i think of it in the cage when that balk go by. why. 
oh this business seem to be germinal upside down. janki be in my veranda all this morning tell me that kundoo have elope with his wife unda or anda i think her name be. 
hillo. and those be the cattle that you risk your life to clear out of twenty two. 
no i be think of the company s prop not the company s men. 
sound good to say so now. but i don t believe you old fellow. 
in flood time. 
tweed say tae till. what gar ye rin sae still. till say tae tweed. though ye rin wi speed an i rin slaw yet where ye droon ae man i droon twa. 
there be no get over the river to night sahib. they say that a bullock cart ha be wash down already and the ekka that go over a half hour before you come ha not yet reach the far side. be the sahib in haste. i will drive the ford elephant in to show him. ohe mahout there in the shed. bring out ram pershad and if he will face the current good. an elephant never lie sahib and ram pershad be separate from his friend kala nag. he too wish to cross to the far side. well do. well do. my king. go half way across mahoutji and see what the river say. well do ram pershad. pearl among elephant go into the river. hit him on the head fool. be the goad make only to scratch thy own fat back with bastard. strike. strike. what be the boulder to thee ram pershad my rustum my mountain of strength. go in. go in. 
no sahib. it be useless. you can hear him trumpet. he be tell kala nag that he cannot come over. see. he ha swing round and be shake his head. he be no fool. he know what the barhwi mean when it be angry. aha. indeed thou art no fool my child. salaam ram pershad bahadur. take him under the tree mahout and see that he get his spice. well do thou chief among tusker. salaam to the sirkar and go to sleep. 
what be to be do. the sahib must wait till the river go down. it will shrink to morrow morning if god plea or the day after at the late. now why doe the sahib get so angry. i be his servant. before god i do not create this stream. what can i do. my hut and all that be therein be at the service of the sahib and it be begin to rain. come away my lord. how will the river go down for your throw abuse at it. in the old day the english people be not thus. the fire carriage ha make them soft. in the old day when they drave behind horse by day or by night they say naught if a river bar the way or a carriage sit down in the mud. it be the will of god not like a fire carriage which go and go and go and would go though all the devil in the land hang on to it tail. the fire carriage hath spoil the english people. after all what be a day lose or for that matter what be two day. be the sahib go to his own wed that he be so mad with haste. ho. ho. ho. i be an old man and see few sahib. forgive me if i have forget the respect that be due to them. the sahib be not angry. 
his own wed. ho. ho. ho. the mind of an old man be like the numah tree. fruit bud blossom and the dead leaf of all the year of the past flourish together. old and new and that which be go out of remembrance all three be there. sit on the bedstead sahib and drink milk. or would the sahib in truth care to drink my tobacco. it be good. it be the tobacco of nuklao. my son who be in service there send it to me. drink then sahib if you know how to handle the tube. the sahib take it like a musalman. wah. wah. where do he learn that. his own wed. ho. ho. ho. the sahib say that there be no wed in the matter at all. now be it likely that the sahib would speak true talk to me who be only a black man. small wonder then that he be in haste. thirty year have i beat the gong at this ford but never have i see a sahib in such haste. thirty year sahib. that be a very long time. thirty year ago this ford be on the track of the bunjaras and i have see two thousand pack bullock cross in one night. now the rail ha come and the fire carriage say buz buz buz and a hundred lakh of maund slide across that big bridge. it be very wonderful. but the ford be lonely now that there be no bunjaras to camp under the tree. 
nay do not trouble to look at the sky without. it will rain till the dawn. listen. the boulder be talk tonight in the bed of the river. hear them. they would be husk your bone sahib have you try to cross. see i will shut the door and no rain can enter. wahi. ahi. ugh. thirty year on the bank of the ford. an old man be i and where be the oil for the lamp. 
your pardon but because of my year i sleep no sound than a dog. and you move to the door. look then sahib. look and listen. a full half ko from bank to bank be the stream now you can see it under the star and there be ten foot of water therein. it will not shrink because of the anger in your eye and it will not be quiet on account of your curse. which be loud sahib your voice or the voice of the river. call to it perhaps it will be ashamed. lie down and sleep afresh sahib. i know the anger of the barhwi when there ha fall rain in the foot hill. i swim the flood once on a night ten fold bad than this and by the favour of god i be release from death when i have come to the very gate thereof. 
may i tell the tale. very good talk. i will fill the pipe anew. 
thirty year ago it be when i be a young man and have but newly come to the ford. i be strong then and the bunjaras have no doubt when i say this ford be clear. i have toil all night up to my shoulder blade in run water amid a hundred bullock mad with fear and have bring them across lose not a hoof. when all be do i fetch the shiver men and they give me for reward the pick of their cattle the bell bullock of the drive. so great be the honour in which i be hold. but to day when the rain fall and the river rise i creep into my hut and whimper like a dog. my strength be go from me. i be an old man and the fire carriage ha make the ford desolate. they be wont to call me the strong one of the barhwi. 
behold my face sahib it be the face of a monkey. and my arm it be the arm of an old woman. i swear to you sahib that a woman ha love this face and ha rest in the hollow of this arm. twenty year ago sahib. believe me this be true talk twenty year ago. 
come to the door and look across. can you see a thin fire very far away down the stream. that be the temple fire in the shrine of hanuman of the village of pateera. north under the big star be the village itself but it be hide by a bend of the river. be that far to swim sahib. would you take off your clothe and adventure. yet i swim to pateera not once but many time. and there be mugger in the river too. 
love know no caste. else why should i a musalman and the son of a musalman have seek a hindu woman a widow of the hindu the sister of the headman of pateera. but it be even so. they of the headman s household come on a pilgrimage to muttra when she be but newly a bride. silver tire be upon the wheel of the bullock cart and silken curtain hide the woman. sahib i make no haste in their conveyance for the wind part the curtain and i saw her. when they return from pilgrimage the boy that be her husband have die and i saw her again in the bullock cart. by god these hindu be fool. what be it to me whether she be hindu or jain scavenger leper or whole. i would have marry her and make her a home by the ford. the seventh of the nine bar say that a man may not marry one of the idolater. be that truth. both shiah and sunni say that a musalman may not marry one of the idolater. be the sahib a priest then that he know so much. i will tell him something that he doe not know. there be neither shiah nor sunni forbid nor idolater in love. and the nine bar be but nine little fagot that the flame of love utterly burn away. in truth i would have take her. but what could i do. the headman would have send his men to break my head with stave. i be not i be not afraid of any five men. but against half a village who can prevail. 
therefore it be my custom these thing have be arrange between u twain to go by night to the village of pateera and there we meet among the crop. no man know aught of the matter. behold now. i be wont to cross here skirt the jungle to the river bend where the railway bridge be and thence across the elbow of land to pateera. the light of the shrine be my guide when the night be dark. that jungle near the river be very full of snake little karaits that sleep on the sand and moreover her brother would have slay me have they find me in the crop. but none know none know save she and i. and the blow sand of the river bed cover the track of my foot. in the hot month it be an easy thing to pas from the ford to pateera and in the first rain when the river rise slowly it be an easy thing also. i set the strength of my body against the strength of the stream and nightly i eat in my hut here and drink at pateera yonder. she have say that one hirnam singh a thief have seek her and he be of a village up the river but on the same bank. all sikh be dog and they have refuse in their folly that good gift of god tobacco. i be ready to destroy hirnam singh that ever he have come nigh her. and the more because he have swear to her that she have a lover and that he would lie in wait and give the name to the headman unless she go away with him. what cur be these sikh. 
after that news i swim always with a little sharp knife in my belt and evil would it have be for a man have he stay me. i know not the face of hirnam singh but i would have kill any who come between me and her. 
upon a night in the begin of the rain i be mind to go across to pateera albeit the river be angry. now the nature of the barhwi be this sahib. in twenty breath it come down from the hill a wall three foot high and i have see it between the light of a fire and the cook of a chupatty grow from a runnel to a sister of the jumna. 
when i leave this bank there be a shoal a half mile down and i make shift to fetch it and draw breath there ere go forward. for i felt the hand of the river heavy upon my heel. yet what will a young man not do for love s sake. there be but little light from the star and midway to the shoal a branch of the stink deodar tree brush my mouth a i swim. that be a sign of heavy rain in the foot hill and beyond for the deodar be a strong tree not easily shake from the hillside. i make haste the river aid me but ere i touch the shoal the pulse of the stream beat a it be within me and around and behold the shoal be go and i ride high on the crest of a wave that run from bank to bank. ha the sahib ever be cast into much water that fight and will not let a man use his limb. to me my head upon the water it seem a though there be naught but water to the world s end and the river drave me with it driftwood. a man be a very little thing in the belly of a flood. and this flood though i know it not be the great flood about which men talk still. my liver be dissolve and i lay like a log upon my back in the fear of death. there be live thing in the water cry and howl grievously beast of the forest and cattle and once the voice of a man ask for help. but the rain come and lash the water white and i hear no more save the roar of the boulder below and the roar of the rain above. thus i be whirl down stream wrestle for the breath in me. it be very hard to die when one be young. can the sahib stand here see the railway bridge. look there be the light of the mail train go to peshawur. the bridge be now twenty foot above the river but upon that night the water be roar against the lattice work and against the lattice come i foot first. but much driftwood be pile there and upon the pier and i take no great hurt. only the river press me a a strong man press a weak. scarcely could i take hold of the lattice work and crawl to the upper boom. sahib the water be foam across the rail a foot deep. judge therefore what manner of flood it must have be. i could not hear. i could not see. i could but lie on the boom and pant for breath. 
after a while the rain cease and there come out in the sky certain new wash star and by their light i saw that there be no end to the black water a far a the eye could travel and the water have rise upon the rail. there be dead beast in the driftwood on the pier and others catch by the neck in the lattice work and others not yet drown who strive to find a foothold on the lattice work buffalo and kine and wild pig and deer one or two and snake and jackal past all count. their body be black upon the leave side of the bridge but the small of them be force through the lattice work and whirl down stream. 
thereafter the star die and the rain come down afresh and the river rise yet more and i felt the bridge begin to stir under me a a man stir in his sleep ere he wake. but i be not afraid sahib. i swear to you that i be not afraid though i have no power in my limb. i know that i should not die till i have see her once more. but i be very cold and i felt that the bridge must go. 
there be a tremble in the water such a tremble a go before the come of a great wave and the bridge lift it flank to the rush of that come so that the right lattice dip under water and the leave rise clear. on my beard sahib i be speak god s truth. a a mirzapore stone boat careen to the wind so the barhwi bridge turn. thus and in no other manner. 
i slide from the boom into deep water and behind me come the wave of the wrath of the river. i hear it voice and the scream of the middle part of the bridge a it move from the pier and sink and i know no more till i rise in the middle of the great flood. i put forth my hand to swim and lo. it fell upon the knot hair of the head of a man. he be dead for no one but i the strong one of barhwi could have live in that race. he have be dead full two day for he ride high wallow and be an aid to me. i laugh then know for a surety that i should yet see her and take no harm. and i twist my finger in the hair of the man for i be far spend and together we go down the stream he the dead and i the live. lack that help i should have sink. the cold be in my marrow and my flesh be rib and sodden on my bone. but he have no fear who have know the uttermost of the power of the river. and i let him go where he choose. at last we come into the power of a side current that set to the right bank and i strive with my foot to draw with it. but the dead man swing heavily in the whirl and i fear that some branch have strike him and that he would sink. the top of the tamarisk brush my knee so i know we be come into flood water above the crop and after i let down my leg and felt bottom the ridge of a field and after the dead man stay upon a knoll under a fig tree and i draw my body from the water rejoice. 
doe the sahib know whither the backwash of the flood have bear me. to the knoll which be the eastern boundary mark of the village of pateera. no other place. i draw the dead man up on the grass for the service that he have do me and also because i know not whether i should need him again. then i go cry thrice like a jackal to the appoint place which be near the byre of the headman s house. but my love be already there weep. she fear that the flood have sweep my hut at the barhwi ford. when i come softly through the ankle deep water she think it be a ghost and would have flee but i put my arm round her and i be no ghost in those day though i be an old man now. 
ho. ho. dry corn in truth. maize without juice. ho. ho. [footnote. i grieve to say that the warden of barhwi ford be responsible here for two very bad pun in the vernacular. r. k. ]. 
i tell her the story of the break of the barhwi bridge and she say that i be great than mortal man for none may cross the barhwi in full flood and i have see what never man have see before. hand in hand we go to the knoll where the dead lay and i show her by what help i have make the ford. she look also upon the body under the star for the latter end of the night be clear and hide her face in her hand cry. it be the body of hirnam singh. i say. the swine be of more use dead than live my beloved and she say. surely for he ha save the dear life in the world to my love. none the le he cannot stay here for that would bring shame upon me. the body be not a gunshot from her door. 
then say i roll the body with my hand. god hath judge between u hirnam singh that thy blood might not be upon my head. now whether i have do thee a wrong in keep thee from the burn ghat do thou and the crow settle together. so i cast him adrift into the flood water and he be draw out to the open ever wag his thick black beard like a priest under the pulpit board. and i saw no more of himam singh. 
before the break of the day we two part and i move towards such of the jungle a be not flood. with the full light i saw what i have do in the darkness and the bone of my body be loosen in my flesh for there run two ko of rag water between the village of pateera and the tree of the far bank and in the middle the pier of the barhwi bridge show like break teeth in the jaw of an old man. nor be there any life upon the water neither bird nor boat but only an army of drown thing bullock and horse and men and the river be red than blood from the clay of the foot hill. never have i see such a flood never since that year have i see the like and o sahib no man live have do what i have do. there be no return for me that day. not for all the land of the headman would i venture a second time without the shield of darkness that cloak danger. i go a ko up the river to the house of a blacksmith say that the flood have sweep me from my hut and they give me food. seven day i stay with the blacksmith till a boat come and i return to my house. there be no trace of wall or roof or floor naught but a patch of slimy mud. judge therefore sahib how far the river must have rise. 
it be write that i should not die either in my house or in the heart of the barhwi or under the wreck of the barhwi bridge for god send down hirnam singh two day dead though i know not how the man die to be my buoy and support. hirnam singh ha be in hell these twenty year and the think of that night must be the flower of his torment. 
listen sahib. the river ha change it voice. it be go to sleep before the dawn to which there be yet one hour. with the light it will come down afresh. how do i know. have i be here thirty year without know the voice of the river a a father know the voice of his son. every moment it be talk le angrily. i swear that there will be no danger for one hour or perhaps two. i cannot answer for the morning. be quick sahib. i will call ram pershad and he will not turn back this time. be the paulin tightly cord upon all the baggage. ohe mahout with a mud head the elephant for the sahib and tell them on the far side that there will be no cross after daylight. 
money. nay sahib. i be not of that kind. no not even to give sweetmeat to the baby folk. my house look you be empty and i be an old man. 
dutt ram pershad. dutt. dutt. dutt. good luck go with you sahib. 
the send of dana da. 
when the devil ride on your chest remember the chamar. native proverb. 
once upon a time some people in india make a new heaven and a new earth out of break tea cup a miss brooch or two and a hair brush. these be hide under bush or stuff into hole in the hillside and an entire civil service of subordinate god use to find or mend them again. and every one say. there be more thing in heaven and earth than be dream of in our philosophy. several other thing happen also but the religion never seem to get much beyond it first manifestation. though it add an air line postal service and orchestral effect in order to keep abreast of the tune and choke off competition. 
this religion be too elastic for ordinary use. it stretch itself and embrace piece of everything that the medicine men of all age have manufacture. it approve of and steal from freemasonry. loot the latter day rosicrucian of half their pet word. take any fragment of egyptian philosophy that it find in the encyclopaedia britannica. annex a many of the veda a have be translate into french or english and talk of all the rest. build in the german version of what be leave of the zend avesta. encourage white gray and black magic include spiritualism palmistry fortune tell by card hot chestnut double kernelled nut and tallow droppings. would have adopt voodoo and oboe have it know anything about them and show itself in every way one of the most accommodate arrangement that have ever be invent since the birth of the sea. 
when it be in thorough work order with all the machinery down to the subscription complete dana da come from nowhere with nothing in his hand and write a chapter in it history which ha hitherto be unpublished. he say that his first name be dana and his second be da. now set aside dana of the new york sun_ dana be a bhil name and da fit no native of india unless you except the bengali de a the original spell. da be lap or finnish. and dana da be neither finn chin bhil bengali lap nair gond romaney magh bokhariot kurd armenian levantine jew persian punjabi madrasi parsee nor anything else know to ethnologist. he be simply dana da and decline to give further information. for the sake of brevity and a roughly indicate his origin he be call the native. he might have be the original old man of the mountain who be say to be the only authorise head of the tea cup creed. some people say that he be. but dana da use to smile and deny any connection with the cult. explain that he be an independent experimenter. 
a i have say he come from nowhere with his hand behind his back and study the creed for three week. sit at the foot of those best competent to explain it mystery. then he laugh aloud and go away but the laugh might have be either of devotion or derision. 
when he return he be without money but his pride be unabated. he declare that he know more about the thing in heaven and earth than those who teach him and for this contumacy be abandon altogether. 
his next appearance in public life be at a big cantonment in upper india and he be then tell fortune with the help of three leaden dice a very dirty old cloth and a little tin box of opium pill. he tell good fortune when he be allow half a bottle of whiskey. but the thing which he invent on the opium be quite worth the money. he be in reduce circumstance. among other people s he tell the fortune of an englishman who have once be interest in the simla creed but who late on have marry and forget all his old knowledge in the study of baby and thing. the englishman allow dana da to tell a fortune for charity s sake and give him five rupee a dinner and some old clothe. when he have eat dana da profess gratitude and ask if there be anything he could do for his host in the esoteric line. 
be there any one that you love. say dana da. the englishman love his wife but have no desire to drag her name into the conversation. he therefore shake his head. 
be there any one that you hate. say dana da. the englishman say that there be several men whom he hat deeply. 
very good say dana da upon whom the whiskey and the opium be begin to tell. only give me their name and i will despatch a send to them and kill them. 
now a send be a horrible arrangement first invent they say in iceland. it be a thing send by a wizard and may take any form but most generally wander about the land in the shape of a little purple cloud till it find the sendee and him it kill by change into the form of a horse or a cat or a man without a face. it be not strictly a native patent though chamars of the skin and hide caste can if irritate despatch a send which sit on the breast of their enemy by night and nearly kill him. very few native care to irritate chamars for this reason. 
let me despatch a send say dana da. i be nearly dead now with want and drink and opium but i should like to kill a man before i die. i can send a send anywhere you choose and in any form except in the shape of a man. 
the englishman have no friend that he wish to kill but partly to soothe dana da whose eye be roll and partly to see what would be do he ask whether a modify send could not be arrange for such a send a should make a man s life a burden to him and yet do him no harm. if this be possible he notify his willingness to give dana da ten rupee for the job. 
i be not what i be once say dana da and i must take the money because i be poor. to what englishman shall i send it. 
send a send to lone sahib say the englishman name a man who have be most bitter in rebuke him for his apostasy from the tea cup creed. dana da laugh and nod. 
i could have choose no good man myself say he. i will see that he find the send about his path and about his bed. 
he lay down on the hearth rug turn up the white of his eye shiver all over and begin to snort. this be magic or opium or the send or all three. when he open his eye he vow that the send have start upon the war path and be at that moment fly up to the town where lone sahib life. 
give me my ten rupee say dana da wearily and write a letter to lone sahib tell him and all who believe with him that you and a friend be use a power great than theirs. they will see that you be speak the truth. 
he depart unsteadily with the promise of some more rupee if anything come of the send. 
the englishman send a letter to lone sahib couch in what he remember of the terminology of the creed. he write. i also in the day of what you hold to be my backslide have obtain enlightenment and with enlightenment ha come power. then he grow so deeply mysterious that the recipient of the letter could make neither head nor tail of it and be proportionately impress. for he fancy that his friend have become a fifth round. when a man be a fifth round he can do more than slade and houdin combine. 
lone sahib read the letter in five different fashion and be begin a sixth interpretation when his bearer dash in with the news that there be a cat on the bed. now if there be one thing that lone sahib hat more than another it be a cat. he scold the bearer for not turn it out of the house. the bearer say that he be afraid. all the door of the bedroom have be shut throughout the morning and no real cat could possibly have enter the room. he would prefer not to meddle with the creature. 
lone sahib enter the room gingerly and there on the pillow of his bed sprawl and whimper a wee white kitten. not a jumpsome frisky little beast but a slug like crawler with it eye barely open and it paw lack strength or direction a kitten that ought to have be in a basket with it mamma. lone sahib catch it by the scruff of it neck hand it over to the sweeper to be drown and fin the bearer four anna. 
that even a he be read in his room he fancy that he saw something move about on the hearth rug outside the circle of light from his read lamp. when the thing begin to myowl he realise that it be a kitten a wee white kitten nearly blind and very miserable. he be seriously angry and speak bitterly to his bearer who say that there be no kitten in the room when he bring in the lamp and real kitten of tender age generally have mother cat in attendance. 
if the presence will go out into the veranda and listen say the bearer he will hear no cat. how therefore can the kitten on the bed and the kitten on the hearth rug be real kitten. 
lone sahib go out to listen and the bearer follow him but there be no sound of any one mew for her child. he return to his room have hurl the kitten down the hillside and write out the incident of the day for the benefit of his co religionist. those people be so absolutely free from superstition that they ascribe anything a little out of the common to agency. a it be their business to know all about the agency they be on term of almost indecent familiarity with manifestation of every kind. their letter drop from the ceiling unstamped and spirit use to squat up and down their staircase all night. but they have never come into contact with kitten. lone sahib write out the fact note the hour and the minute a every psychical observer be bind to do and append the englishman s letter because it be the most mysterious document and might have have a bear upon anything in this world or the next. an outsider would have translate all the tangle thus. look out. you laugh at me once and now i be go to make you sit up. 
lone sahib s co religionist find that mean in it. but their translation be refine and full of four syllable word. they hold a sederunt and be fill with tremulous joy for in spite of their familiarity with all the other world and cycle they have a very human awe of thing send from ghost land. they meet in lone sahib s room in shroud and sepulchral gloom and their conclave be break up by a clink among the photo frame on the mantelpiece. a wee white kitten nearly blind be loop and writhe itself between the clock and the candlestick. that stop all investigation or doubling. here be the manifestation in the flesh. it be so far a could be see devoid of purpose but it be a manifestation of undoubted authenticity. 
they draft a round robin to the englishman the backslider of old day adjure him in the interest of the creed to explain whether there be any connection between the embodiment of some egyptian god or other [i have forget the name] and his communication. they call the kitten ra or toth or tum or something. and when lone sahib confess that the first one have at his most misguide instance be drown by the sweeper they say consolingly that in his next life he would be a bounder and not even a round of the low grade. these word may not be quite correct but they accurately express the sense of the house. 
when the englishman receive the round robin it come by post he be startle and bewilder. he send into the bazar for dana da who read the letter and laugh. that be my send say he. i tell you i would work well. now give me another ten rupee. 
but what in the world be this gibberish about egyptian god. ask the englishman. 
cat say dana da with a hiccough for he have discover the englishman s whiskey bottle. cat and cat and cat. never be such a send. a hundred of cat. now give me ten more rupee and write a i dictate. 
dana da s letter be a curiosity. it bore the englishman s signature and hint at cat at a send of cat. the mere word on paper be creepy and uncanny to behold. 
what have you do though. say the englishman. i be a much in the dark a ever. do you mean to say that you can actually send this absurd send you talk about. 
judge for yourself say dana da. what doe that letter mean. in a little time they will all be at my foot and yours and i o glory. will be drug or drink all daylong. 
dana da know his people. 
when a man who hate cat wake up in the morning and find a little squirm kitten on his breast or put his hand into his ulster pocket and find a little half dead kitten where his glove should be or open his trunk and find a vile kitten among his dress shirt or go for a long ride with his mackintosh strap on his saddle bow and shake a little squawling kitten from it fold when he open it or go out to dinner and find a little blind kitten under his chair or stay at home and find a writhe kitten under the quilt or wriggle among his boot or hang head downwards in his tobacco jar or be mangle by his terrier in the veranda when such a man find one kitten neither more nor le once a day in a place where no kitten rightly could or should be he be naturally upset. when he dare not murder his daily trove because he belief it to be a manifestation an emissary an embodiment and half a dozen other thing all out of the regular course of nature he be more than upset. he be actually distress. some of lone sahib s co religionist think that he be a highly favour individual. but many say that if he have treat the first kitten with proper respect a suit a oth ra tum sennacherib embodiment all this trouble would have be avert. they compare him to the ancient mariner but none the le they be proud of him and proud of the englishman who have send the manifestation. they do not call it a send because icelandic magic be not in their programme. 
after sixteen kitten that be to say after one fortnight for there be three kitten on the first day to impress the fact of the send the whole camp be uplift by a letter it come fly through a window from the old man of the mountain the head of all the creed explain the manifestation in the most beautiful language and soak up all the credit of it for himself. the englishman say the letter be not there at all. he be a backslider without power or asceticism who couldn t even raise a table by force of volition much le project an army of kitten through space. the entire arrangement say the letter be strictly orthodox work and sanction by the high authority within the pale of the creed. there be great joy at this for some of the weak brother see that an outsider who have be work on independent line could create kitten whereas their own ruler have never go beyond crockery and break at best be show a desire to break line on their own trail. in fact there be the promise of a schism. a second round robin be draft to the englishman begin. o scoffer and end with a selection of curse from the rite of mizraim and memphis and the commination of jugana who be a fifth round upon whose name an upstart third round once trade. a papal excommunication be a billet doux compare to the commination of jugana. the englishman have be prove under the hand and seal of the old man of the mountain to have appropriate virtue and pretend to have power which in reality belong only to the supreme head. naturally the round robin do not spare him. 
he hand the letter to dana da to translate into decent english. the effect on dana da be curious. at first he be furiously angry and then he laugh for five minute. 
i have think he say that they would have come to me. in another week i would have show that i send the send and they would have discrowned the old man of the mountain who ha send this send of mine. do you do nothing. the time ha come for me to act. write a i dictate and i will put them to shame. but give me ten more rupee. 
at dana da s dictation the englishman write nothing le than a formal challenge to the old man of the mountain. it wind up. and if this manifestation be from your hand then let it go forward. but if it be from my hand i will that the send shall cease in two day time. in that day there shall be twelve kitten and thenceforward none at all. the people shall judge between u. this be sign by dana da who add pentacle and pentagram and a crux ansata_ and half a dozen swastikas_ and a triple tau to his name just to show that he be all he lay claim to be. 
the challenge be read out to the gentleman and lady and they remember then that dana da have laugh at them some year ago. it be officially announce that the old man of the mountain would treat the matter with contempt. dana da be an independent investigator without a single round at the back of him. but this do not soothe his people. they want to see a fight. they be very human for all their spirituality. lone sahib who be really be wear out with kitten submit meekly to his fate. he felt that he be be kitten to prove the power of dana da a the poet say. 
when the state day dawn the shower of kitten begin. some be white and some be tabby and all be about the same loathsome age. three be on his hearth rug three in his bath room and the other six turn up at interval among the visitor who come to see the prophecy break down. never be a more satisfactory send. on the next day there be no kitten and the next day and all the other day be kittenless and quiet. the people murmur and look to the old man of the mountain for an explanation. a letter write on a palm leaf drop from the ceiling but every one except lone sahib felt that letter be not what the occasion demand. there should have be cat there should have be cat full grow one. the letter prove conclusively that there have be a hitch in the psychic current which collide with a dual identity have interfere with the percipient activity all along the main line. the kitten be still go on but owe to some failure in the develop fluid they be not materialise. the air be thick with letter for a few day afterwards. unseen hand play gluck and beethoven on finger bowl and clock shade. but all men felt that psychic life be a mockery without materialise kitten. even lone sahib shout with the majority on this head. dana da s letter be very insult and if he have then offer to lead a new departure there be no know what might not have happen. 
but dana da be die of whiskey and opium in the englishman s godown and have small heart for honour. 
they have be put to shame say he. never be such a send. it ha kill me. 
nonsense say the englishman you be go to die dana da and that sort of stuff must be leave behind. i ll admit that you have make some queer thing come about. tell me honestly now how be it do. 
give me ten more rupee say dana da faintly and if i die before i spend them bury them with me. the silver be count out while dana da be fight with death. his hand close upon the money and he smile a grim smile. 
bend low he whisper. the englishman bend. 
bunnia mission school expel box wallah. peddler. ceylon pearl merchant all mine english education out cast and make up name dana da england with american think read man and and you give me ten rupee several time i give the sahib s bearer two eight a month for cat little little cat. i write and he put them about very clever man. very few kitten now in the bazar. ask lone sahib s sweeper s wife. 
so say dana da gasp and pass away into a land where if all be true there be no materialisation and the make of new creed be discourage. 
but consider the gorgeous simplicity of it all. 
on the city wall. 
then she let them down by a cord through the window. for her house be upon the town wall and she dwell upon the wall. joshua ii. 
lalun be a member of the most ancient profession in the world. lilith be her very great grandmamma and that be before the day of eve a every one know. in the west people say rude thing about lalun s profession and write lecture about it and distribute the lecture to young person in order that morality may be preserve. in the east where the profession be hereditary descend from mother to daughter nobody write lecture or take any notice. and that be a distinct proof of the inability of the east to manage it own affair. 
lalun s real husband for even lady of lalun s profession in the east must have husband be a big jujube tree. her mamma who have marry a fig tree spend ten thousand rupee on lalun s wed which be bless by forty seven clergyman of mamma s church and distribute five thousand rupee in charity to the poor. and that be the custom of the land. the advantage of have a jujube tree for a husband be obvious. you cannot hurt his feeling and he look impose. 
lalun s husband stand on the plain outside the city wall and lalun s house be upon the east wall face the river. if you fell from the broad window seat you drop thirty foot sheer into the city ditch. but if you stay where you should and look forth you saw all the cattle of the city be drive down to water the student of the government college play cricket the high grass and tree that fringe the river bank the great sand bar that rib the river the red tomb of dead emperor beyond the river and very far away through the blue heat haze a glint of the snow of the himalaya. 
wali dad use to lie in the window seat for hour at a time watch this view. he be a young muhammadan who be suffer acutely from education of the english variety and know it. his father have send him to a mission school to get wisdom and wali dad have absorb more than ever his father or the missionary intend he should. when his father die wali dad be independent and spend two year experiment with the creed of the earth and read book that be of no use to anybody. 
after he have make an unsuccessful attempt to enter the roman catholic church and the presbyterian fold at the same time. the missionary find him out and call him name but they do not understand his trouble. he discover lalun on the city wall and become the most constant of her few admirer. he possess a head that english artist at home would rave over and paint amid impossible surround a face that female novelist would use with delight through nine hundred page. in reality he be only a clean breed young muhammadan with pencil eye brow small cut nostril little foot and hand and a very tire look in his eye. by virtue of his twenty two year he have grow a neat black beard which he stroke with pride and keep delicately scent. his life seem to be divide between borrow book from me and make love to lalun in the window seat. he compose song about her and some of the song be sting to this day in the city from the street of the mutton butcher to the copper smith ward. 
one song the pretty of all say that the beauty of lalun be so great that it trouble the heart of the british government and cause them to lose their peace of mind. that be the way the song be sing in the street. but if you examine it carefully and know the key to the explanation you will find that there be three pun in it on beauty heart and peace of mind so that it run. by the subtlety of lalun the administration of the government be trouble and it lose such and such a man. when wali dad sing that song his eye glow like hot coal and lalun lean back among the cushion and throw bunch of jasmine bud at wali dad. 
but first it be necessary to explain something about the supreme government which be above all and below all and behind all. gentleman come from england spend a few week in india walk round this great sphinx of the plain and write book upon it way and it work denounce or praise it a their own ignorance prompt. consequently all the world know how the supreme government conduct itself. but no one not even the supreme government know everything about the administration of the empire. year by year england send out fresh draft for the first fight line which be officially call the indian civil service. these die or kill themselves by overwork or be worry to death or break in health and hope in order that the land may be protect from death and sickness famine and war and may eventually become capable of stand alone. it will never stand alone but the idea be a pretty one and men be will to die for it and yearly the work of push and coax and scold and pet the country into good live go forward. if an advance be make all credit be give to the native while the englishman stand back and wipe their forehead. if a failure occur the englishman step forward and take the blame. overmuch tenderness of this kind ha breed a strong belief among many native that the native be capable of administer the country and many devout englishman believe this also because the theory be state in beautiful english with all the late political colour. 
there be other men who though uneducated see vision and dream dream and they too hope to administer the country in their own way that be to say with a garnish of red sauce. such men must exist among two hundred million people and if they be not attend to may cause trouble and even break the great idol call pax britannic_ which a the newspaper say life between peshawur and cape comorin. be the day of doom to dawn to morrow you would find the supreme government take measure to allay popular excitement and put guard upon the graveyard that the dead might troop forth orderly. the young civilian would arrest gabriel on his own responsibility if the archangel could not produce a deputy commissioner s permission to make music or other noise a the license say. 
whence it be easy to see that mere men of the flesh who would create a tumult must fare badly at the hand of the supreme government. and they do. there be no outward sign of excitement. there be no confusion. there be no knowledge. when due and sufficient reason have be give weigh and approve the machinery move forward and the dreamer of dream and the seer of vision be go from his friend and follow. he enjoy the hospitality of government. there be no restriction upon his movement within certain limit. but he must not confer any more with his brother dreamer. once in every six month the supreme government assure itself that he be well and take formal acknowledgment of his existence. no one protest against this detention because the few people who know about it be in deadly fear of seem to know him. and never a single newspaper take up his case or organise demonstration on his behalf because the newspaper of india have get behind that lie proverb which say the pen be mighty than the sword and can walk delicately. 
so now you know a much a you ought about wali dad the educational mixture and the supreme government. 
lalun ha not yet be describe. she would need so wali dad say a thousand pen of gold and ink scent with musk. she ha be variously compare to the moon the dil sagar lake a spot quail a gazelle the sun on the desert of kutch the dawn the star and the young bamboo. these comparison imply that she be beautiful exceedingly accord to the native standard which be practically the same a those of the west. her eye be black and her hair be black and her eyebrow be black a leech. her mouth be tiny and say witty thing. her hand be tiny and have save much money. her foot be tiny and have tread on the naked heart of many men. but a wali dad sing. lalun be lalun and when you have say that you have only come to the beginning of knowledge. 
the little house on the city wall be just big enough to hold lalun and her maid and a pussy cat with a silver collar. a big pink and blue cut glass chandelier hang from the ceiling of the reception room. a petty nawab have give lalun the horror and she keep it for politeness sake. the floor of the room be of polish chunam white a curd. a latticed window of carve wood be set in one wall. there be a profusion of squabby pluffy cushion and fat carpet everywhere and lalun s silver huqa_ stud with turquoise have a special little carpet all to it shin self. wali dad be nearly a permanent a fixture a the chandelier. a i have say he lay in the window seat and meditate on life and death and lalun specially lalun. the foot of the young men of the city tend to her doorway and then retire for lalun be a particular maiden slow of speech reserve of mind and not in the least incline to orgy which be nearly certain to end in strife. if i be of no value i be unworthy of this honour say lalun. if i be of value they be unworthy of me. and that be a crook sentence. 
in the long hot night of latter april and may all the city seem to assemble in lalun s little white room to smoke and to talk. shiah of the grim and most uncompromising persuasion. sufi who have lose all belief in the prophet and retain but little in god. wander hindu priest pass southward on their way to the central india fair and other affair. pundit in black gown with spectacle on their nose and undigested wisdom in their inside. beard headman of the ward. sikh with all the detail of the late ecclesiastical scandal in the golden temple. red eye priest from beyond the border look like trap wolf and talk like raven. m. a. s of the university very superior and very voluble all these people and more also you might find in the white room. wali dad lay in the window seat and listen to the talk. 
it be lalun s salon say wali dad to me and it be electic be not that the word. outside of a freemason s lodge i have never see such gathering. there i din once with a jew a yahoudi. he spat into the city ditch with apology for allow national feeling to overcome him. though i have lose every belief in the world say he and try to be proud of my lose i cannot help hat a jew. lalun admit no jew here. 
but what in the world do all these men do. i ask. 
the curse of our country say wali dad. they talk. it be like the athenian always hear and tell some new thing. ask the pearl and she will show you how much she know of the news of the city and the province. lalun know everything. 
lalun i say at random she be talk to a gentleman of the kurd persuasion who have come in from god know where when doe the th regiment go to agra. 
it doe not go at all say lalun without turn her head. they have order the th to go in it stead. that regiment go to lucknow in three month unless they give a fresh order. 
that be so say wali dad without a shade of doubt. can you with your telegram and your newspaper do good. always hear and tell some new thing he go on. my friend ha your god ever smite a european nation for gossip in the bazar. india ha gossip for century always stand in the bazar until the soldier go by. therefore you be here today instead of starve in your own country and i be not a muhammadan i be a product a demnition product. that also i owe to you and yours. that i cannot make an end to my sentence without quote from your author. he pull at the huqa and mourn half feelingly half in earnest for the shatter hope of his youth. wali dad be always mourn over something or other the country of which he despair or the creed in which he have lose faith or the life of the english which he could by no mean understand. 
lalun never mourn. she play little song on the sitar_ and to hear her sing o peacock cry again be always a fresh pleasure. she know all the song that have ever be sing from the war song of the south that make the old men angry with the young men and the young men angry with the state to the love song of the north where the sword whinny whicker like angry kite in the pause between the kiss and the pass fill with arm men and the lover be tear from his beloved and cry ai ai ai. evermore. she know how to make up tobacco for the huqa so that it smelt like the gate of paradise and waft you gently through them. she could embroider strange thing in gold and silver and dance softly with the moonlight when it come in at the window. also she know the heart of men and the heart of the city and whose wife be faithful and whose untrue and more of the secret of the government office than be good to be set down in this place. nasiban her maid say that her jewellery be worth ten thousand pound and that some night a thief would enter and murder her for it possession. but lalun say that all the city would tear that thief limb from limb and that he whoever he be know it. 
so she take her sitar and sit in the window seat and sing a song of old day that have be sing by a girl of her profession in an arm camp on the eve of a great battle the day before the ford of the jumna run red and sivaji flee fifty mile to delhi with a toorkh stallion at his horse s tail and another lalun on his saddle bow. it be what men call a mahratta laonee_ and it say. 
their warrior force chimajee before the peishwa lead the child of the sun and fire behind him turn and flee. 
and the chorus say. 
with them there fight who ride so free with a sword and turban red the warrior youth who earn his fee at peril of his head. 
at peril of his head say wali dad in english to me. thank to your government all our head be protect and with the educational facility at my command his eye twinkle wickedly i might be a distinguish member of the local administration. perhaps in time i might even be a member of a legislative council. 
don t speak english say lalun bend over her sitar afresh. the chorus go out from the city wall to the blacken wall of fort amara which dominate the city. no man know the precise extent of fort amara. three king build it hundred of year ago and they say that there be mile of underground room beneath it wall. it be people with many ghost a detachment of garrison artillery and a company of infantry. in it prime it hold ten thousand men and fill it ditch with corps. 
at peril of his head sing lalun again and again. 
a head move on one of the rampart the gray head of an old man and a voice rough a shark skin on a sword hilt send back the last line of the chorus and break into a song that i could not understand though lalun and wali dad listen intently. 
what be it. i ask. who be it. 
a consistent man say wali dad. he fight you in when he be a warrior youth. refought you in and he try to fight you in but you have learn the trick of blow men from gun too well. now he be old. but he would still fight if he could. 
be he a wahabi then. why should he answer to a mahratta laonee if he be wahabi or sikh. say i. 
i do not know say wali dad. he ha lose perhaps his religion. perhaps he wish to be a king. perhaps he be a king. i do not know his name. 
that be a lie wali dad. if you know his career you must know his name. 
that be quite true. i belong to a nation of liar. i would rather not tell you his name. think for yourself. 
lalun finish her song point to the fort and say simply. khem singh. 
hm say wali dad. if the pearl choose to tell you the pearl be a fool. 
i translate to lalun who laugh. i choose to tell what i choose to tell. they keep khem singh in burma say she. they keep him there for many year until his mind be change in him. so great be the kindness of the government. find this they send him back to his own country that he might look upon it before he die. he be an old man but when he look upon this country his memory will come. moreover there be many who remember him. 
he be an interest survival say wali dad pull at the huqa. he return to a country now full of educational and political reform but a the pearl say there be many who remember him. he be once a great man. there will never be any more great men in india. they will all when they be boy go whore after strange god and they will become citizen fellow citizen illustrious fellow citizen. what be it that the native paper call them. 
wali dad seem to be in a very bad temper. lalun look out of the window and smile into the dust haze. i go away think about khem singh who have once make history with a thousand follower and would have be a princeling but for the power of the supreme government aforesaid. 
the senior captain command fort amara be away on leave but the subaltern his deputy have drift down to the club where i find him and enquire of him whether it be really true that a political prisoner have be add to the attraction of the fort. the sub altern explain at great length for this be the first time that he have hold command of the fort and his glory lay heavy upon him. 
yes say he a man be send in to me about a week ago from down the line a thorough gentleman whoever he be. of course i do all i could for him. he have his two servant and some silver cook pot and he look for all the world like a native officer. i call him subadar sahib. just a well to be on the safe side y know. look here subadar sahib i say you re hand over to my authority and i m suppose to guard you. now i don t want to make your life hard but you must make thing easy for me. all the fort be at your disposal from the flagstaff to the dry ditch and i shall be happy to entertain you in any way i can but you mustn t take advantage of it. give me your word that you win t try to escape subadar sahib and i ll give you my word that you shall have no heavy guard put over you. i think the best way of get at him be by go at him straight y know. and it be by jove. the old man give me his word and move about the fort a content a a sick crow. he s a rummy chap always ask to be tell where he be and what the building about him be. i have to sign a slip of blue paper when he turn up acknowledge receipt of his body and all that and i m responsible y know that he doesn t get away. queer thing though look after a johnnie old enough to be your grandfather isn t it. come to the fort one of these day and see him. 
for reason which will appear i never go to the fort while khem singh be then within it wall. i know him only a a gray head see from lalun s window a gray head and a harsh voice. but native tell me that day by day a he look upon the fair land round amara his memory come back to him and with it the old hatred against the government that have be nearly efface in far off burma. so he rag up and down the west face of the fort from morning till noon and from even till the night devise vain thing in his heart and croak war song when lalun sing on the city wall. a he grow more acquaint with the subaltern he unburden his old heart of some of the passion that have wither it. sahib he use to say tap his stick against the parapet when i be a young man i be one of twenty thousand horseman who come out of the city and ride round the plain here. sahib i be the leader of a hundred then of a thousand then of five thousand and now. he point to his two servant. but from the begin to to day i would cut the throat of all the sahib in the land if i could. hold me fast sahib l i get away and return to those who would follow me. i forget them when i be in burma but now that i be in my own country again i remember everything. 
do you remember that you have give me your honour not to make your tendance a hard matter. say the subaltern. 
yes to you only to you sahib say khem singh. to you because you be of a pleasant countenance. if my turn come again sahib i will not hang you nor cut your throat. 
thank you say the subaltern gravely a he look along the line of gun that could pound the city to powder in half an hour. let u go into our own quarter khem singh. come and talk with me after dinner. 
khem singh would sit on his own cushion at the subaltern s foot drink heavy scent anise seed brandy in great gulp and tell strange story of fort amara which have be a palace in the old day of begum and ranee torture to death aye in the very vault chamber that now serve a a mess room. would tell story of sobraon that make the subaltern s cheek flush and tingle with pride of race and of the kuka rise from which so much be expect and the foreknowledge of which be share by a hundred thousand soul. but he never tell tale of because a he say he be the subaltern s guest and be a year that no man black or white care to speak of. once only when the anise seed brandy have slightly affect his head he say. sahib speak now of a matter which lay between sobraon and the affair of the kukas it be ever a wonder to u that you stay your hand at all and that have stay it you do not make the land one prison. now i hear from without that you do great honour to all men of our country and by your own hand be destroy the terror of your name which be your strong rock and defence. this be a foolish thing. will oil and water mix. now in. 
i be not bear then subadar sahib say the subaltern and khem singh reel to his quarter. 
the subaltern would tell me of these conversation at the club and my desire to see khem singh increase. but wali dad sit in the window seat of the house on the city wall say that it would be a cruel thing to do and lalun pretend that i prefer the society of a grizzle old sikh to hers. 
here be tobacco here be talk here be many friend and all the news of the city and above all here be myself. i will tell you story and sing you song and wali dad will talk his english nonsense in your ear. be that bad than watch the cage animal yonder. go to morrow then if you must but to day such and such an one will be here and he will speak of wonderful thing. 
it happen that to morrow never come and the warm heat of the latter rain give place to the chill of early october almost before i be aware of the flight of the year. the captain command the fort return from leave and take over charge of khem singh accord to the law of seniority. the captain be not a nice man. he call all native nigger which besides be extreme bad form show gross ignorance. 
what s the use of tell off two tommies to watch that old nigger. say he. 
i fancy it soothe his vanity say the subaltern. the men be order to keep well out of his way but he take them a a tribute to his importance poor old wretch. 
i win t have line men take off regular guard in this way. put on a couple of native infantry. 
sikh. say the subaltern lift his eyebrow. 
sikh pathan dogras they re all alike these black vermin and the captain talk to khem singh in a manner which hurt that old gentleman s feeling. fifteen year before when he have be catch for the second time every one look upon him a a sort of tiger. he like be regard in this light. but he forget that the world go forward in fifteen year and many subaltern be promote to captaincy. 
the captain pig be in charge of the fort. say khem singh to his native guard every morning. and the native guard say. yes subadar sahib in deference to his age and his air of distinction. but they do not know who he be. 
in those day the gather in lalun s little white room be always large and talk more than before. 
the greek say wali dad who have be borrow my book the inhabitant of the city of athens where they be always hear and tell some new thing rigorously seclude their woman who be fool. hence the glorious institution of the heterodox woman be it not. who be amuse and not fool. all the greek philosopher delight in their company. tell me my friend how it go now in greece and the other place upon the continent of europe. be your woman folk also fool. 
wali dad i say you never speak to u about your woman folk and we never speak about ours to you. that be the bar between u. 
yes say wali dad it be curious to think that our common meet place should be here in the house of a common how do you call her. he point with the pipe mouth to lalun. 
lalun be nothing but lalun i say and that be perfectly true. but if you take your place in the world wali dad and give up dream dream. 
i might wear an english coat and trouser. i might be a lead muhammadan pleader. i might be receive even at the commissioner s tennis party where the english stand on one side and the native on the other in order to promote social intercourse throughout the empire. heart s heart say he to lalun quickly the sahib say that i ought to quit you. 
the sahib be always talk stupid talk return lalun with a laugh. in this house i be a queen and thou art a king. the sahib she put her arm above her head and think for a moment the sahib shall be our vizier thine and mine wali dad because he ha say that thou shouldst leave me. 
wali dad laugh immoderately and i laugh too. be it so say he. my friend be you will to take this lucrative government appointment. lalun what shall his pay be. 
but lalun begin to sing and for the rest of the time there be no hope of get a sensible answer from her or wali dad. when the one stop the other begin to quote persian poetry with a triple pun in every other line. some of it be not strictly proper but it be all very funny and it only come to an end when a fat person in black with gold pince nez_ send up his name to lalun and wali dad drag me into the twinkle night to walk in a big rise garden and talk heresy about religion and government and a man s career in life. 
the mohurrum the great mourn festival of the muhammadan be close at hand and the thing that wali dad say about religious fanaticism would have secure his expulsion from the loose think muslim sect. there be the rise bush round u the star above u and from every quarter of the city come the boom of the big mohurrum drum. you must know that the city be divide in fairly equal proportion between the hindu and the musalmans and where both creed belong to the fight race a big religious festival give ample chance for trouble. when they can that be to say when the authority be weak enough to allow it the hindu do their best to arrange some minor feast day of their own in time to clash with the period of general mourn for the martyr hasan and hussain the hero of the mohurrum. gild and paint paper presentation of their tomb be bear with shout and wail music torch and yell through the principal thoroughfare of the city which fakements be call tazias. their passage be rigorously lay down beforehand by the police and detachment of police accompany each tazia_ l the hindu should throw brick at it and the peace of the queen and the head of her loyal subject should thereby be break. mohurrum time in a fight town mean anxiety to all the official because if a riot break out the official and not the rioter be hold responsible. the former must foresee everything and while not make their precaution ridiculously elaborate must see that they be at least adequate. 
listen to the drum. say wali dad. that be the heart of the people empty and make much noise. how think you will the mohurrum go this year. i think that there will be trouble. 
he turn down a side street and leave me alone with the star and a sleepy police patrol. then i go to bed and dream that wali dad have sack the city and i be make vizier with lalun s silver huqa for mark of office. 
all day the mohurrum drum beat in the city and all day deputation of tearful hindu gentleman besiege the deputy commissioner with assurance that they would be murder ere next dawn by the muhammadan. which say the deputy commissioner in confidence to the head of police be a pretty fair indication that the hindu be go to make emselves unpleasant. i think we can arrange a little surprise for them. i have give the head of both creed fair warn. if they choose to disregard it so much the bad for them. 
there be a large gather in lalun s house that night but of men that i have never see before if i except the fat gentleman in black with the gold pince nez. wali dad lay in the window seat more bitterly scornful of his faith and it manifestation than i have ever know him. lalun s maid be very busy cut up and mix tobacco for the guest. we could hear the thunder of the drum a the procession accompany each tazia march to the central gather place in the plain outside the city preparatory to their triumphant re entry and circuit within the wall. all the street seem ablaze with torch and only fort amara be black and silent. 
when the noise of the drum cease no one in the white room speak for a time. the first tazia ha move off say wali dad look to the plain. 
that be very early say the man with the pince nez. 
it be only half past eight. the company rise and depart. 
some of them be men from ladakh say lalun when the last have go. they bring me brick tea such a the russian sell and a tea urn from peshawur. show me now how the english memsahib make tea. 
the brick tea be abominable. when it be finish wali dad suggest go into the street. i be nearly sure that there will be trouble to night he say. all the city think so and vox populi be vox dei_ a the babu say. now i tell you that at the corner of the padshahi gate you will find my horse all this night if you want to go about and to see thing. it be a most disgraceful exhibition. where be the pleasure of say _ya hasan ya hussain_ twenty thousand time in a night. 
all the procession there be two and twenty of them be now well within the city wall. the drum be beat afresh the crowd be howl ya hasan. ya hussain. and beat their breast the brass band be play their loud and at every corner where space allow muhammadan preacher be tell the lamentable story of the death of the martyr. it be impossible to move except with the crowd for the street be not more than twenty foot wide. in the hindu quarter the shutter of all the shop be up and cross bar. a the first tazia_ a gorgeous erection ten foot high be bear aloft on the shoulder of a score of stout men into the semi darkness of the gully of the horseman a brickbat crash through it talc and tinsel side. 
into thy hand o lord. murmur wali dad profanely a a yell go up from behind and a native officer of police jam his horse through the crowd. another brickbat follow and the tazia stagger and sway where it have stop. 
go on. in the name of the sirkar_ go forward. shout the policeman. but there be an ugly crack and splinter of shutter and the crowd halt with oath and growling before the house whence the brickbat have be throw. 
then without any warn break the storm not only in the gully of the horseman but in half a dozen other place. the tazias rock like ship at sea the long pole torch dip and rise round them while the men shout. the hindu be dishonour the tazias. strike. strike. into their temple for the faith. the six or eight policeman with each tazia draw their baton and strike a long a they could in the hope of force the mob forward but they be overpower and a contingent of hindu pour into the street the fight become general. half a mile away where the tazias be yet untouched the drum and the shriek of ya hasanl ya hussain. continue but not for long. the priest at the corner of the street knock the leg from the bedstead that support their pulpit and smite for the faith while stone fell from the silent house upon friend and foe and the pack street bellow. din. din. din. a tazia catch fire and be drop for a flame barrier between hindu and musalman at the corner of the gully. then the crowd surge forward and wali dad draw me close to the stone pillar of a well. 
it be intend from the begin. he shout in my ear with more heat than blank unbelief should be guilty of. the brick be carry up to the house beforehand. these swine of hindu. we shall be gutting kine in their temple to night. 
tazia after tazia_ some burn others tear to piece hurry past u and the mob with them howl shriek and strike at the house door in their flight. at last we saw the reason of the rush. hugonin the assistant district superintendent of police a boy of twenty have get together thirty constable and be force the crowd through the street. his old gray police horse show no sign of uneasiness a it be spur breast on into the crowd and the long dog whip with which he have arm himself be never still. 
they know we haven t enough police to hold em he cry a he pass me mop a cut on his face. they know we haven t. aren t any of the men from the club come down to help. get on you son of burn father. the dog whip crack across the writhe back and the constable smite afresh with baton and gun butt. with these pass the light and the shout and wali dad begin to swear under his breath. from fort amara shoot up a single rocket. then two side by side. it be the signal for troop. 
petitt the deputy commissioner cover with dust and sweat but calm and gently smile canter up the clean sweep street in rear of the main body of the rioter. no one kill yet he shout. i ll keep em on the run till dawn. don t let em halt hugonin. trot em about till the troop come. 
the science of the defence lay solely in keep the mob on the move. if they have breathe space they would halt and fire a house and then the work of restore order would be more difficult to say the least of it. flame have the same effect on a crowd a blood ha on a wild beast. 
word have reach the club and men in even dress be begin to show themselves and lend a hand in head off and break up the shout mass with stirrup leather whip or chance find stave. they be not very often attack for the rioter have sense enough to know that the death of a european would not mean one hang but many and possibly the appearance of the thrice dread artillery. the clamour in the city redouble. the hindu have descend into the street in real earnest and ere long the mob return. it be a strange sight. there be no tazias only their rive platform and there be no police. here and there a city dignitary hindu or muhammadan be vainly implore his co religionist to keep quiet and behave themselves advice for which his white beard be pull. then a native officer of police unhorse but still use his spur with effect would be bear along warn all the crowd of the danger of insult the government. everywhere men strike aimlessly with stick grasp each other by the throat howl and foam with rage or beat with their bare hand on the door of the house. 
it be a lucky thing that they be fight with natural weapon i say to wali dad else we should have half the city kill. 
i turn a i speak and look at his face. his nostril be distend his eye be fix and he be smite himself softly on the breast. the crowd pour by with renew riot a gang of musalmans hard press by some hundred hindu fanatic. wali dad leave my side with an oath and shout. ya hasan. ya hussain. plunge into the thick of the fight where i lose sight of him. 
i flee by a side alley to the padshahi gate where i find wali dad s house and thence ride to the fort. once outside the city wall the tumult sink to a dull roar very impressive under the star and reflect great credit on the fifty thousand angry able body men who be make it. the troop who at the deputy commissioner s instance have be order to rendezvous quietly near the fort show no sign of be impress. two company of native infantry a squadron of native cavalry and a company of british infantry be kick their heel in the shadow of the east face wait for order to march in. i be sorry to say that they be all please unholily please at the chance of what they call a little fun. the senior officer to be sure grumble at have be keep out of bed and the english troop pretend to be sulky but there be joy in the heart of all the subaltern and whisper run up and down the line. no ball cartridge what a beastly shame. d you think the beggar will really stand up to u. hope i shall meet my money lender there. i owe him more than i can afford. oh they win t let u even unsheathe sword. hurrah. up go the fourth rocket. fall in there. 
the garrison artillery who to the last cherish a wild hope that they might be allow to bombard the city at a hundred yard range line the parapet above the east gateway and cheer themselves hoarse a the british infantry double along the road to the main gate of the city. the cavalry canter on to the padshahi gate and the native infantry march slowly to the gate of the butcher. the surprise be intend to be of a distinctly unpleasant nature and to come on top of the defeat of the police who have be just able to keep the muhammadan from fire the house of a few lead hindu. the bulk of the riot lay in the north and north west ward. the east and south east be by this time dark and silent and i ride hastily to lalun s house for i wish to tell her to send some one in search of wali dad. the house be unlighted but the door be open and i climb upstairs in the darkness. one small lamp in the white room show lalun and her maid lean half out of the window breathe heavily and evidently pull at something that refuse to come. 
thou art late very late gasp lalun without turn her head. help u now o fool if thou hast not spend thy strength howl among the tazias. pull. nasiban and i can do no more. o sahib be it you. the hindu have be hunt an old muhammadan round the ditch with club. if they find him again they will kill him. help u to pull him up. 
i put my hand to the long red silk waist cloth that be hang out of the window and we three pull and pull with all the strength at our command. there be something very heavy at the end and it swear in an unknown tongue a it kick against the city wall. 
pull oh pull. say lalun at the last. a pair of brown hand grasp the window sill and a venerable muhammadan tumble upon the floor very much out of breath. his jaw be tie up his turban have fall over one eye and he be dusty and angry. 
lalun hide her face in her hand for an instant and say something about wali dad that i could not catch. 
then to my extreme gratification she throw her arm round my neck and murmur pretty thing. i be in no haste to stop her. and nasiban be a handmaiden of tact turn to the big jewel chest that stand in the corner of the white room and rummage among the content. the muhammadan sit on the floor and glare. 
one service more sahib since thou hast come so opportunely say lalun. wilt thou it be very nice to be thou ed by lalun take this old man across the city the troop be everywhere and they might hurt him for he be old to the kumharsen gate. there i think he may find a carriage to take him to his house. he be a friend of mine and thou art more than a friend therefore i ask this. 
nasiban bend over the old man tuck something into his belt and i raise him up and lead him into the street. 
in cross from the east to the west of the city there be no chance of avoid the troop and the crowd. long before i reach the gully of the horseman i hear the shout of the british infantry cry cheeringly. hutt ye beggar. hutt ye devil. get along. go forward there. then follow the ring of rifle butt and shriek of pain. the troop be bang the bare toe of the mob with their gun butt for not a bayonet have be fix. my companion mumble and jabber a we walk on until we be carry back by the crowd and have to force our way to the troop. i catch him by the wrist and felt a bangle there the iron bangle of the sikh but i have no suspicion for lalun have only ten minute before put her arm round me. thrice we be carry back by the crowd and when we make our way past the british infantry it be to meet the sikh cavalry drive another mob before them with the butt of their lance. 
what be these dog. say the old man. 
sikh of the cavalry father i say and we edge our way up the line of horse two abreast and find the deputy commissioner his helmet smash on his head surround by a knot of men who have come down from the club a amateur constable and have help the police mightily. 
we ll keep em on the run till dawn say petitt. who s your villainous friend. 
i have only time to say. the protection of the sirkar. when a fresh crowd fly before the native infantry carry u a hundred yard near to the kumharsen gate and petitt be sweep away like a shadow. 
i do not know i cannot see this be all new to me. moan my companion. how many troop be there in the city. 
perhaps five hundred i say. 
a lakh of men beat by five hundred and sikh among them. surely surely i be an old man but the kumharsen gate be new. who pull down the stone lion. where be the conduit. sahib i be a very old man and ala i i cannot stand. he drop in the shadow of the kumharsen gate where there be no disturbance. a fat gentleman wear gold pince nez come out of the darkness. 
you be most kind to my old friend he say suavely. he be a landholder of akala. he should not be in a big city when there be religious excitement. but i have a carriage here. you be quite truly kind. will you help me to put him into the carriage. it be very late. 
we bundle the old man into a hire victoria that stand close to the gate and i turn back to the house on the city wall. the troop be drive the people to and fro while the police shout to your house. get to your house. and the dog whip of the assistant district superintendent crack remorselessly. terror stricken bunnias cling to the stirrup of the cavalry cry that their house have be rob. which be a lie. and the burly sikh horseman pat them on the shoulder and bid them return to those house l a bad thing should happen. party of five or six british soldier join arm sweep down the side gully their rifle on their back stamp with shout and song upon the toe of hindu and musalman. never be religious enthusiasm more systematically squash. and never be poor breaker of the peace more utterly weary and footsore. they be rout out of hole and corner from behind well pillar and byre and bid to go to their house. if they have no house to go to so much the bad for their toe. 
on return to lalun s door i stumble over a man at the threshold. he be sob hysterically and his arm flap like the wing of a goose. it be wali dad agnostic and unbeliever shoeless turbanless and froth at the mouth the flesh on his chest bruise and bleed from the vehemence with which he have smite himself. a break torch handle lay by his side and his quiver lip murmur ya hasan. ya hussain. a i stoop over him. i push him a few step up the staircase throw a pebble at lalun s city window and hurry home. 
most of the street be very still and the cold wind that come before the dawn whistle down them. in the centre of the square of the mosque a man be bend over a corpse. the skull have be smash in by gun butt or bamboo stave. 
it be expedient that one man should die for the people say petitt grimly raise the shapeless head. these brute be begin to show their teeth too much. 
and from afar we could hear the soldier sing two lovely black eye a they drive the remnant of the rioter within door. 
of course you can guess what happen. i be not so clever. when the news go abroad that khem singh have escape from the fort i do not since i be then live this story not write it connect myself or lalun or the fat gentleman with the gold pince nez_ with his disappearance. nor do it strike me that wali dad be the man who should have convoy him across the city or that lalun s arm round my neck be put there to hide the money that nasiban give to khem singh and that lalun have use me and my white face a even a good safeguard than wali dad who prove himself so untrustworthy. all that i know at the time be that when fort amara be take up with the riot khem singh profit by the confusion to get away and that his two sikh guard also escape. 
but late on i receive full enlightenment. and so do khem singh. he flee to those who know him in the old day but many of them be dead and more be change and all know something of the wrath of the government. he go to the young men but the glamour of his name have pass away and they be enter native regiment of government office and khem singh could give them neither pension decoration nor influence nothing but a glorious death with their back to the mouth of a gun. he write letter and make promise and the letter fell into bad hand and a wholly insignificant subordinate officer of police track them down and gain promotion thereby. moreover khem singh be old and anise seed brandy be scarce and he have leave his silver cook pot in fort amara with his nice warm bed and the gentleman with the gold pince nez be tell by those who have employ him that khem singh a a popular leader be not worth the money pay. 
great be the mercy of these fool of english. say khem singh when the situation be put before him. i will go back to fort amara of my own free will and gain honour. give me good clothe to return in. 
so at his own time khem singh knock at the wicket gate of the fort and walk to the captain and the subaltern who be nearly gray head on account of correspondence that daily arrive from simla mark private. 
i have come back captain sahib say khem singh. 
put no more guard over me. it be no good out yonder. 
a week late i saw him for the first time to my knowledge and he make a though there be an understand between u. 
it be well do sahib say he and greatly i admire your astuteness in thus boldly face the troop when i whom they would have doubtless tear to piece be with you. now there be a man in fort ooltagarh whom a bold man could with ease help to escape. this be the position of the fort a i draw it on the sand. 
but i be think how i have become lalun s vizier after all. 
