a diversity of creature. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 

preface. 
with two exception the date at the head of these story show when they be publish in magazine form. the village that vote the earth be flat and my son s wife carry the date when they be write. 
rudyard kipling. 
content. 
a easy a abc. 
macdonough s song. 
friendly brook. 
the land. 
in the same boat. 
helen all alone. 
the honour of war. 
the child. 
the dog hervey. 
the comforter. 
the village that vote the earth be flat. 
the press. 
in the presence. 
jobson s amen. 
regulus. 
a translation. 
the edge of the even. 
rebirth. 
the horse marine. 
the legend of mirth. 
my son s wife. 
the flood. 
the fabulist. 
the vortex. 
the song of seven city. 
sweep and garnish. 
mary postgate. 
the beginning. 
a diversity of creature. 
a easy a a. b. c. 

the a. b. c. that semi elect semi nominate body of a few score person control the planet. transportation be civilisation our motto run. theoretically we do what we please so long a we do not interfere with the traffic and all it imply. practically the a. b. c. confirm or annul all international arrangement and to judge from it last report find our tolerant humorous lazy little planet only too ready to shift the whole burden of public administration on it shoulder. 
with the night mail[ ]. 
[footnote. action and reaction. ]. 
isn t it almost time that our planet take some interest in the proceeding of the aërial board of control. one know that easy communication nowadays and lack of privacy in the past have kill all curiosity among mankind but a the board s official reporter i be bind to tell my tale. 
at. a. m. august a. d. the board sit in london be inform by de forest that the district of northern illinois have riotously cut itself out of all system and would remain disconnect till the board should take over and administer it direct. 
every northern illinois freight and passenger tower be he report out of action. all district main local and guide light have be extinguish. all general communication be dumb and through traffic have be divert. no reason have be give but he gather unofficially from the mayor of chicago that the district complain of crowd make and invasion of privacy. 
a a matter of fact it be of no importance whether northern illinois stay in or out of planetary circuit. a a matter of policy any complaint of invasion of privacy need immediate investigation l bad follow. 
by a. m. de forest dragomiroff. russia. takahira. japan. and pirolo. italy. be empower to visit illinois and to take such step a might be necessary for the resumption of traffic and all that that imply. by a. m. the hall be empty and the four member and i be aboard what pirolo insist on call my leetle godchild that be to say the new victor pirolo. our planet prefer to know victor pirolo a a gentle grey haired enthusiast who spend his time near foggia invent or create new breed of spanish italian olive tree. but there be another side to his nature the manufacture of quaint invention of which the victor pirolo be perhaps not the least surprise. she and a few score sister craft of the same type embody his late idea. but she be not comfortable. an a. b. c. boat doe not take the air with the level keel lift of a liner but shoot up rocket fashion like the aeroplane of our ancestor and make her height at top speed from the first. that be why i find myself sit suddenly on the large lap of eustace arnott who command the a. b. c. fleet. one know vaguely that there be such a thing a a fleet somewhere on the planet and that theoretically it exist for the purpose of what use to be know a war. only a week before while visit a glacier sanatorium behind gothaven i have see some squadron make false aurora far to the north while they manoeuvre round the pole. but naturally it have never occur to me that the thing could be use in earnest. 
say arnott to de forest a i stagger to a seat on the chart room divan. we re tremendously grateful to em in illinois. we ve never have a chance of exercise all the fleet together. i ve turn in a general call and i expect we ll have at least two hundred keel aloft this even. 
well aloft. de forest ask. 
of course sir. out of sight till they re call for. 
arnott laugh a he loll over the transparent chart table where the map of the summer blue atlantic slide along degree by degree in exact answer to our progress. our dial already show m. p. h. and we be two thousand foot above the uppermost traffic line. 
now where be this illinois district of yours. say dragomiroff. one travel so much one see so little. oh i remember. it be in north america. 
de forest whose business it be to know the out district tell u that it lay at the foot of lake michigan on a road to nowhere in particular be about half an hour s run from end to end and except in one corner a flat a the sea. like most flat country nowadays it be heavily guard against invasion of privacy by force timber fifty foot spruce and tamarack grow in five year. the population be close on two million largely migratory between florida and california with a backbone of small farm. they call a thousand acre a farm in illinois. whose owner come into chicago for amusement and society during the winter. they be he say noticeably kind quiet folk but a little exact a all flat country must be in their notion of privacy. there have for instance be no print news sheet in illinois for twenty seven year. chicago argue that engine for print news sooner or late develop into engine for invasion of privacy which in turn might bring the old terror of crowd and blackmail back to the planet. so news sheet be not. 
and that s illinois de forest conclude. you see in the old day she be in the forefront of what they use to call progress and chicago. 
chicago. say takahira. that s the little place where there be salati s statue of the nigger in flame. a fine bite of old work. 
when do you see it. ask de forest quickly. they only unveil it once a year. 
i know. at thanksgiving. it be then say takahira with a shudder. and they sing macdonough s song too. 
whew. de forest whistle. i do not know that. i wish you d tell me before. macdonough s song may have have it us when it be compose but it be an infernal legacy for any man to leave behind. 
it s protective instinct my dear fellow say pirolo roll a cigarette. the planet she ha have her dose of popular government. she suffer from inherit agoraphobia. she ha no ah use for crowd. 
dragomiroff lean forward to give him a light. certainly say the white beard russian the planet ha take all precaution against crowd for the past hundred year. what be our total population to day. six hundred million we hope. five hundred we think. but but if next year s census show more than four hundred and fifty i myself will eat all the extra little baby. we have cut the birth rate out right out. for a long time we have say to almighty god thank you sir but we do not much like your game of life so we will not play. 
anyhow say arnott defiantly men live a century apiece on the average now. 
oh that be quite well. i be rich you be rich we be all rich and happy because we be so few and we live so long. only i think almighty god he will remember what the planet be like in the time of crowd and the plague. perhaps he will send u nerve. eh pirolo. 
the italian blink into space. perhaps he say he ha send them already. anyhow you cannot argue with the planet. she doe not forget the old day and what can you do. 
for sure we can t remake the world. de forest glance at the map flow smoothly across the table from west to east. we ought to be over our grind by nine to night. there win t be much sleep afterwards. 
on which hint we disperse and i sleep till takahira wake me for dinner. our ancestor think nine hour sleep ample for their little life. we live thirty year long feel ourselves defraud with le than eleven out of the twenty four. 
by ten o clock we be over lake michigan. the west shore be lightless except for a dull grind glare at chicago and a single traffic direct light it lead beam point north at waukegan on our starboard bow. none of the lake village give any sign of life. and inland westward so far a we could see blackness lay unbroken on the level earth. we swoop down and skim low across the dark throw call county by county. now and again we pick up the faint glimmer of a house light or hear the rasp and rend of a cultivator be play across the field but northern illinois a a whole be one inky apparently uninhabited waste of high force wood. only our illuminate map with it little pointer switch from county to county a we wheel and twist give u any idea of our position. our call urgent plead coax or command through the general communicator bring no answer. illinois strictly maintain her own privacy in the timber which she grow for that purpose. 
oh this be absurd. say de forest. we re like an owl try to work a wheat field. be this bureau creek. let s land arnott and get hold of some one. 
we brush over a belt of force woodland fifteen year old maple sixty foot high ground on a private meadow dock none too big where we moor to our own grapnel and hurry out through the warm dark night towards a light in a verandah. a we near the garden gate i could have swear we have step knee deep in quicksand for we could scarcely drag our foot against the prickle current that clog them. after five pace we stop wipe our forehead a hopelessly stick on dry smooth turf a so many cow in a bog. 
pest. cry pirolo angrily. we be grind circuit. and it be my own system of grind circuit too. i know the pull. 
good even say a girl s voice from the verandah. oh i m sorry. we ve lock up. wait a minute. 
we hear the click of a switch and almost fell forward a the current round our knee be withdraw. 
the girl laugh and lay aside her knit. an old fashion controller stand at her elbow which she reverse from time to time and we could hear the snort and clank of the obedient cultivator half a mile away behind the guardian wood. 
come in and sit down she say. i m only play a plough. dad s go to chicago to ah. then it be your call i hear just now. 
she have catch sight of arnott s board uniform leap to the switch and turn it full on. 
we be check gasp waist deep in current this time three yard from the verandah. 
we only want to know what s the matter with illinois say de forest placidly. 
then hadn t you good go to chicago and find out. she answer. there s nothing wrong here. we own ourselves. 
how can we go anywhere if you win t loose u. de forest go on while arnott scowl. admiral of fleet be still quite human when their dignity be touch. 
stop a minute you don t know how funny you look. she put her hand on her hip and laugh mercilessly. 
don t worry about that say arnott and whistle. a voice answer from the victor pirolo in the meadow. 
only a single fuse grind circuit. arnott call. sort it out gently please. 
we hear the ping of a break lamp. a fuse blow out somewhere in the verandah roof frighten a nestful of bird. the grind circuit be open. we stoop and rub our tingle ankle. 
how rude how very rude of you. the maiden cry. 
sorry but we haven t time to look funny say arnott. we ve get to go to chicago. and if i be you young lady i d go into the cellar for the next two hour and take mother with me. 
off he stride with u at his heel mutter indignantly till the humour of the thing strike and double him up with laughter at the foot of the gang way ladder. 
the board hasn t show what you might call a fat spark on this occasion say de forest wipe his eye. i hope i didn t look a big a fool a you do arnott. hullo. what on earth be that. dad come home from chicago. 
there be a rattle and a rush and a five plough cultivator blade in air like so many teeth trundle itself at u round the edge of the timber fume and spark furiously. 
jump. say arnott a we bundle ourselves through the none too wide door. never mind about shut it. up. 
the victor pirolo lift like a bubble and the vicious machine shoot just underneath u claw high a it pass. 
there s a nice little spit kitten for you. say arnott dust his knee. we ask her a civil question. first she circuit u and then she play a cultivator at u. 
and then we fly say dragomiroff. if i be forty year more young i would go back and kiss her. ho. ho. 
i say pirolo would smack her. my pet ship ha be chase by a dirty plough. a how do you say. agricultural implement. 
oh that be illinois all over say de forest. they don t content themselves with talk about privacy. they arrange to have it. and now where s your allege fleet arnott. we must assert ourselves against this wench. 
arnott point to the black heaven. 
wait on up there say he. shall i give them the whole installation sir. 
oh i don t think the young lady be quite worth that say de forest. get over chicago and perhaps we ll see something. 
in a few minute we be hang at two thousand foot over an oblong block of incandescence in the centre of the little town. 
that look like the old city hall. yes there s salati s statue in front of it say takahira. but what on earth be they do to the place. i think they use it for a market nowadays. drop a little please. 
we could hear the sputter and crackle of road surface machine the cheap western type which fuse stone and rubbish into lava like rib glass for their rough country road. three or four surfacers work on each side of a square of ruin. the brick and stone wreckage crumble slide forward and presently spread out into white hot pool of sticky slag which the level rod smooth more or le flat. already a third of the big block have be so treat and be cool to dull red before our astonish eye. 
it be the old market say de forest. well there s nothing to prevent illinois from make a road through a market. it doesn t interfere with traffic that i can see. 
hsh. say arnott grip me by the shoulder. listen. they re sing. why on the earth be they sing. 
we drop again till we could see the black fringe of people at the edge of that glow square. 
at first they only roar against the roar of the surfacers and leveller. then the word come up clearly the word of the forbid song that all men know and none let pas their lip poor pat macdonough s song make in the day of the crowd and the plague every silly word of it load to spark point with the planet s inherit memory of horror panic fear and cruelty. and chicago innocent content little chicago be sing it aloud to the infernal tune that carry riot pestilence and lunacy round our planet a few generation ago. 
once there be the people terror give it birth. once there be the people and it make a hell of earth. 
then the stamp and pause. 
earth arise and crush it. listen oh ye slay. once there be the people it shall never be again. 
the leveller thrust in savagely against the ruin a the song renew itself again again and again loud than the crash of the melt wall. 
de forest frown. 
i don t like that he say. they ve break back to the old day. they ll be kill somebody soon. i think we d good divert em arnott. 
ay ay sir. arnott s hand go to his cap and we hear the hull of the victor pirolo ring to the command. lamp. both watch stand by. lamp. lamp. lamp. 
keep still. takahira whisper to me. blinker please quartermaster. 
it s all right all right. say pirolo from behind and to my horror slip over my head some sort of rubber helmet that lock with a snap. i could feel thick colloid boss before my eye but i stand in absolute darkness. 
to save the sight he explain and push me on to the chart room divan. you will see in a minute. 
a he speak i become aware of a thin thread of almost intolerable light let down from heaven at an immense distance one vertical hairsbreadth of freeze lightning. 
those be our flank ship say arnott at my elbow. that one be over galena. look south that other one s over keithburg. vincennes be behind u and north yonder be winthrop wood. the fleet s in position sir this to de forest. a soon a you give the word. 
ah no. no. cry dragomiroff at my side. i could feel the old man tremble. i do not know all that you can do but be kind. i ask you to be a little kind to them below. this be horrible horrible. 
when a woman kill a chicken dynasty and empire sicken. 
takahira quote. it be too late to be gentle now. 
then take off my helmet. take off my helmet. dragomiroff begin hysterically. 
pirolo must have put his arm round him. 
hush he say i be here. it be all right ivan my dear fellow. 
i ll just send our little girl in bureau county a warn say arnott. she don t deserve it but we ll allow her a minute or two to take mamma to the cellar. 
in the utter hush that follow the growl spark after arnott have link up his service communicator with the invisible fleet we hear macdonough s song from the city beneath u grow faint a we rise to position. then i clap my hand before my mask lens for it be a though the floor of heaven have be riddle and all the inconceivable blaze of sun in the make be pour through the manhole. 
you needn t count say arnott. i have have no think of such a thing. there be two hundred and fifty keel up there five mile apart. full power please for another twelve second. 
the firmament a far a eye could reach stand on pillar of white fire. one fell on the glow square at chicago and turn it black. 
oh. oh. oh. can men be allow to do such thing. dragomiroff cry and fell across our knee. 
glass of water please say takahira to a helmeted shape that leap forward. he be a little faint. 
the light switch off and the darkness stun like an avalanche. we could hear dragomiroff s teeth on the glass edge. 
pirolo be comfort him. 
all right all ra ight he repeat. come and lie down. come below and take off your mask. i give you my word old friend it be all right. they be my siege light. little victor pirolo s leetle light. you know me. i do not hurt people. 
pardon. dragomiroff moan. i have never see death. i have never see the board take action. shall we go down and burn them alive or be that already do. 
oh hush say pirolo and i think he rock him in his arm. 
do we repeat sir. arnott ask de forest. 
give em a minute s break de forest reply. they may need it. 
we wait a minute and then macdonough s song break but defiant rise from undefeated chicago. 
they seem fond of that tune say de forest. i should let em have it arnott. 
very good sir say arnott and felt his way to the communicator key. 
no light break forth but the hollow of the sky make herself the mouth for one note that touch the raw fibre of the brain. men hear such sound in delirium advance like tide from horizon beyond the rule foreshore of space. 
that s our pitch pipe say arnott. we may be a bite rag. i ve never conduct two hundred and fifty performer before. he pull out the coupler and strike a full chord on the service communicator. 
the beam of light leap down again and dance solemnly and awfully a stilt dance sweep thirty or forty mile leave and right at each stiff legged kick while the darkness deliver itself there be no scale to measure against that utterance of the tune to which they keep time. certain note one learn to expect them with terror cut through one s marrow but after three minute think and emotion pass in indescribable agony. 
we saw we hear but i think we be in some sort swoon. the two hundred and fifty beam shift re form straddle and split narrow widen ripple in ribbon break into a thousand white hot parallel line melt and revolve in interweave ring like old fashion engine turn fling up to the zenith make a if to descend and renew the torment halt at the last instant twizzled insanely round the horizon and vanish to bring back for the hundredth time darkness more shatter than their instantly renew light over all illinois. then the tune and light cease together and we hear one single devastate wail that shake all the horizon a a rub wet finger shake the rim of a bowl. 
ah that be my new siren say pirolo. you can break an iceberg in half if you find the proper pitch. they will whistle by squadron now. it be the wind through pierce shutter in the bow. 
i have collapse beside dragomiroff break and snivel feebly because i have be deliver before my time to all the terror of judgment day and the archangel of the resurrection be hail me naked across the universe to the sound of the music of the sphere. 
then i saw de forest smack arnott s helmet with his open hand. the wail die down in a long shriek a a black shadow swoop past u and return to her place above the low cloud. 
i hate to interrupt a specialist when he s enjoy himself say de forest. but a a matter of fact all illinois ha be ask u to stop for these last fifteen second. 
what a pity. arnott slip off his mask. i want you to hear u really hum. our low c can lift street pave. 
it be hell hell. cry dragomiroff and sob aloud. 
arnott look away a he answer. 
it s a few thousand volt ahead of the old shoot em and sink em game but i should scarcely call it that. what shall i tell the fleet sir. 
tell em we re very please and impress. i don t think they need wait on any long. there isn t a spark leave down there. de forest point. they ll be deaf and blind. 
oh i think not sir. the demonstration last le than ten minute. 
marvellous. takahira sigh. i should have say it be half a night. now shall we go down and pick up the piece. 
but first a small drink say pirolo. the board must not arrive weep at it own work. 
i be an old fool an old fool. dragomiroff begin piteously. i do not know what would happen. it be all new to me. we reason with them in little russia. 
chicago north land tower be unlighted and arnott work his ship into the clip by her own light. a soon a these break out we hear groan of horror and appeal from many people below. 
all right shout arnott into the darkness. we aren t begin again. we descend by the stair to find ourselves knee deep in a grovel crowd some cry that they be blind others beseech u not to make any more noise but the great part writhe face downward their hand or their cap before their eye. 
it be pirolo who come to our rescue. he climb the side of a surface machine and there gesticulate a though they could see make oration to those afflict people of illinois. 
you stchewpids. he begin. there be nothing to fuss for. of course your eye will smart and be red to morrow. you will look a if you and your wife have drink too much but in a little while you will see again a well a before. i tell you this and i i be pirolo. victor pirolo. 
the crowd with one accord shudder for many legend attach to victor pirolo of foggia deep in the secret of god. 
pirolo. an unsteady voice lift itself. then tell u be there anything except light in those light of yours just now. 
the question be repeat from every corner of the darkness. 
pirolo laugh. 
no. he thunder. why have small men such large voice. i give you my word and the board s word that there be nothing except light just light. you stchewpids. your birth rate be too low already a it be. some day i must invent something to send it up but send it down never. 
be that true. we think somebody say. 
one could feel the tension relax all round. 
you too big fool pirolo cry. you could have send u a call and we would have tell you. 
send you a call. a deep voice shout. i wish you have be at our end of the wire. 
i m glad i wasn t say de forest. it be bad enough from behind the lamp. never mind. it s over now. be there any one here i can talk business with. i m de forest for the board. 
you might begin with me for one i m mayor the bass voice reply. 
a big man rise unsteadily from the street and stagger towards u where we sit on the broad turf edge in front of the garden fence. 
i ought to be the first on my foot. be i. say he. 
yes say de forest and steady him a he drop down beside u. 
hello andy. be that you. a voice call. 
excuse me say the mayor. that sound like my chief of police bluthner. 
bluthner it be. and here s mulligan and keefe on their foot. 
bring em up please blut. we re suppose to be the four in charge of this hamlet. what we say go. and de forest what do you say. 
nothing yet de forest answer a we make room for the pant reel men. you ve cut out of system. well. 
tell the steward to send down drink please arnott whisper to an orderly at his side. 
good. say the mayor smack his dry lip. now i suppose we can take it de forest that henceforward the board will administer u direct. 
not if the board can avoid it de forest laugh. the a. b. c. be responsible for the planetary traffic only. 
and all that that imply. the big four who run chicago chant their magna charta like child at school. 
well get on say de forest wearily. what be your silly trouble anyway. 
too much dam democracy say the mayor lay his hand on de forest s knee. 
so. i think illinois have have her dose of that. 
she ha. that s why. blut what do you do with our prisoner last night. 
lock em in the water tower to prevent the woman kill em the chief of police reply. i m too blind to move just yet but. 
arnott send some of your people please and fetch em along say de forest. 
they re triple circuit the mayor call. you ll have to blow out three fuse. he turn to de forest his large outline just visible in the pal darkness. i hate to throw any more work on the board. i m an administrator myself but we ve have a little fuss with our serviles. what. in a big city there s bind to be a few men and woman who can t live without listen to themselves and who prefer drink out of pipe they don t own both end of. they inhabit flat and hotel all the year round. they say it save em trouble. anyway it give em more time to make trouble for their neighbour. we call em serviles locally. and they be apt to be tuberculous. 
just so. say the man call mulligan. transportation be civilisation. democracy be disease. i ve prove it by the blood test every time. 
mulligan s our health officer and a one idea man say the mayor laugh. but it s true that most serviles haven t much control. they will talk. and when people take to talk a a business anything may arrive mayn t it de forest. 
anything except the fact of the case say de forest laugh. 
i ll give you those in a minute say the mayor. our serviles get to talk first in their house and then on the street tell men and woman how to manage their own affair. you can t teach a servile not to finger his neighbour s soul. that s invasion of privacy of course but in chicago we ll suffer anything sooner than make crowd. nobody take much notice and so i let em alone. my fault. i be warn there would be trouble but there hasn t be a crowd or murder in illinois for nineteen year. 
twenty two say his chief of police. 
likely. anyway we d forget such thing. so from talk in the house and on the street our serviles go to call a meet at the old market yonder. he nod across the square where the wreck building heave up grey in the dawn glimmer behind the square case statue of the negro in flame. there s nothing to prevent any one call meeting except that it s against human nature to stand in a crowd besides be bad for the health. i ought to have know by the way our men and woman attend that first meet that trouble be brew. there be a many a a thousand in the market place touch each other. touch. then the serviles turn in all tongue switch and talk and we. 
what do they talk about. say takahira. 
first how badly thing be manage in the city. that please u four we be on the platform because we hop to catch one or two good men for city work. you know how rare executive capacity be. even if we didn t it s it s refresh to find any one interest enough in our job to damn our eye. you don t know what it mean to work year in year out without a spark of difference with a live soul. 
oh don t we. say de forest. there be time on the board when we d give our position if any one would kick u out and take hold of thing themselves. 
but they win t say the mayor ruefully. i assure you sir we four have do thing in chicago in the hope of rouse people that would have discredit nero. but what do they say. very good andy. have it your own way. anything s good than a crowd. i ll go back to my land. you can t do anything with folk who can go where they please and don t want anything on god s earth except their own way. there isn t a kick or a kicker leave on the planet. 
then i suppose that little shed yonder fell down by itself. say de forest. we could see the bare and still smoke ruin and hear the slag pool crackle a they harden and set. 
oh that s only amusement. tell you late. a i be say our serviles hold the meet and pretty soon we have to grind circuit the platform to save em from be kill. and that didn t make our people any more pacific. 
how d you mean. i venture to ask. 
if you ve ever be grind circuit say the mayor you ll know it don t improve any man s temper to be hold up strain against nothing. no sir. eight or nine hundred folk keep paw and buzz like fly in treacle for two hour while a pack of perfectly safe serviles invade their mental and spiritual privacy may be amuse to watch but they be not pleasant to handle afterwards. 
pirolo chuckle. 
our folk own themselves. they be of opinion thing be go too far and too fiery. i warn the serviles. but they re bear house dweller. unless a fact hit em on the head they cannot see it. would you believe me they go on to talk of what they call popular government. they do. they want u to go back to the old voodoo business of vote with paper and wooden box and word drink people and print formula and news sheet. they say they practise it among themselves about what they d have to eat in their flat and hotel. yes sir. they stand up behind bluthner s double grind circuit and they say that in this present year of grace to self own men and woman on that very spot. then they finish he lower his voice cautiously by talk about the people. and then bluthner he have to sit up all night in charge of the circuit because he couldn t trust his men to keep em shut. 
it be try em too high the chief of police break in. but we couldn t hold the crowd grind circuit for ever. i gather in all the serviles on charge of crowd make and put em in the water tower and then i let thing cut loose. i have to. the district light like a spark gas tank. 
the news be out over seven degree of country the mayor continue. and when once it s a question of invasion of privacy good bye to right and reason in illinois. they begin turn out traffic light and lock up land tower on thursday night. friday they stop all traffic and ask for the board to take over. then they want to clean chicago off the side of the lake and rebuild elsewhere just for a souvenir of the people that the serviles talk about. i suggest that they should slag the old market where the meet be hold while i turn in a call to you all on the board. that keep em quiet till you come along. and and now you can take hold of the situation. 
any chance of their quiet down. de forest ask. 
you can try say the mayor. 
de forest raise his voice in the face of the revive crowd that have edge in towards u. day be come. 
don t you think this business can be arrange. he begin. but there be a roar of angry voice. 
we ve finish with crowd. we aren t go back to the old day. take u over. take the serviles away. administer direct or we ll kill em. down with the people. 
an attempt be make to begin macdonough s song. it get no further than the first line for the victor pirolo send down a warn drone on one stop horn. a wreck side wall of the old market totter and fell inwards on the slag pool. none speak or move till the last of the dust have settle down again turn the steel case of salad s statue ashy grey. 
you see you ll just have to take u over the mayor whisper. 
de forest shrug his shoulder. 
you talk a if executive capacity could be snatch out of the air like so much horse power. can t you manage yourselves on any term. he say. 
we can if you say so. it will only cost those few life to begin with. 
the mayor point across the square where arnott s men guide a stumble group of ten or twelve men and woman to the lake front and halt them under the statue. 
now i think say takahira under his breath there will be trouble. 
the mass in front of u growl like beast. 
at that moment the sun rise clear and reveal the blink assembly to itself. a soon a it realize that it be a crowd we saw the shiver of horror and mutual repulsion shoot across it precisely a the steely flaw shoot across the lake outside. nothing be say and be half blind of course it move slowly. yet in le than fifteen minute most of that vast multitude three thousand at the low count melt away like frost on south eaves. the remnant stretch themselves on the grass where a crowd feel and look le like a crowd. 
these mean business the mayor whisper to takahira. there be a goodish few woman there who ve bear child. i don t like it. 
the morning draught off the lake stir the tree round u with promise of a hot day. the sun reflect itself dazzlingly on the canister shape cover of salati s statue. cock crew in the garden and we could hear gate latch click in the distance a people stumblingly resought their home. 
i m afraid there win t be any morning delivery say de forest. we rather upset thing in the country last night. 
that make no odds the mayor return. we re all provision for six month. we take no chance. 
nor when you come to think of it doe any one else. it must be three quarter of a generation since any house or city face a food shortage. yet be there house or city on the planet to day that ha not half a year s provision lay in. we be like the shipwreck seaman in the old book who have once nearly starve to death ever afterwards hide away bit of food and biscuit. truly we trust no crowd nor system base on crowd. 
de forest wait till the last footstep have die away. meantime the prisoner at the base of the statue shuffle pose and fidget with the shamelessness of quite little child. none of them be more than six foot high and many of them be a grey haired a the ravage harass head of old picture. they huddle together in actual touch while the crowd space at large interval look at them with congest eye. 
suddenly a man among them begin to talk. the mayor have not in the least exaggerate. it appear that our planet lay sink in slavery beneath the heel of the aërial board of control. the orator urge u to arise in our might burst our prison door and break our fetter. all his metaphor by the way be of the most mediæval. next he demand that every matter of daily life include most of the physical function should be submit for decision at any time of the week month or year to i gather anybody who happen to be pass by or reside within a certain radius and that everybody should forthwith abandon his concern to settle the matter first by crowd make next by talk to the crowd make and lastly by describe cross on piece of paper which rubbish should late be count with certain mystic ceremony and oath. out of this amaze play he assure u would automatically arise a high noble and kind world base he demonstrate this with the awful lucidity of the insane base on the sanctity of the crowd and the villainy of the single person. in conclusion he call loudly upon god to testify to his personal merit and integrity. when the flow cease i turn bewilder to takahira who be nod solemnly. 
quite correct say he. it be all in the old book. he ha leave nothing out not even the war talk. 
but i don t see how this stuff can upset a child much le a district i reply. 
ah you be too young say dragomiroff. for another thing you be not a mamma. please look at the mamma. 
ten or fifteen woman who remain have separate themselves from the silent men and be draw in towards the prisoner. it remind one of the stealthy encircle before the rush in at the quarry of wolf round musk ox in the north. the prisoner saw and draw together more closely. the mayor cover his face with his hand for an instant. de forest bareheaded step forward between the prisoner and the slowly stiffly move line. 
that s all very interest he say to the dry lipped orator. but the point seem that you ve be make crowd and invade privacy. 
a woman step forward and would have speak but there be a quick assent murmur from the men who realise that de forest be try to pull the situation down to grind line. 
yes. yes. they cry. we cut out because they make crowd and invade privacy. stick to that. keep on that switch. lift the serviles out of this. the board s in charge. hsh. 
yes the board s in charge say de forest. i ll take formal evidence of crowd make if you like but the member of the board can testify to it. will that do. 
the woman have close in another pace with hand that clench and unclenched at their side. 
good. good enough. the men cry. we re content. only take them away quickly. 
come along up. say de forest to the captive breakfast be quite ready. 
it appear however that they do not wish to go. they intend to remain in chicago and make crowd. they point out that de forest s proposal be gross invasion of privacy. 
my dear fellow say pirolo to the most voluble of the leader you hurry or your crowd that can t be wrong will kill you. 
but that would be murder answer the believer in crowd. and there be a roar of laughter from all side that seem to show the crisis have break. 
a woman step forward from the line of woman laugh i protest a merrily a any of the company. one hand of course shade her eye the other be at her throat. 
oh they needn t be afraid of be kill. she call. 
not in the least say de forest. but don t you think that now the board s in charge you might go home while we get these people away. 
i shall be home long before that. it it ha be rather a try day. 
she stand up to her full height dwarf even de forest s six foot eight and smile with eye close against the fierce light. 
yes rather say de forest. i m afraid you feel the glare a little. we ll have the ship down. 
he motion to the pirolo to drop between u and the sun and at the same time to loop circuit the prisoner who be a trifle unsteady. we saw them stiffen to the current where they stand. the woman s voice go on sweet and deep and unshaken. 
i don t suppose you men realise how much this this sort of thing mean to a woman. i ve bear three. we woman don t want our child give to crowd. it must be an inherit instinct. crowd make trouble. they bring back the old day. hate fear blackmail publicity the people that. that. that. she point to the statue and the crowd growl once more. 
yes if they be allow to go on say de forest. but this little affair. 
it mean so much to u woman that this this little affair should never happen again. of course never s a big word but one feel so strongly that it be important to stop crowd at the very begin. those creature she point with her leave hand at the prisoner sway like seaweed in a tideway a the circuit pull them those people have friend and wife and child in the city and elsewhere. one doesn t want anything do to them_ you know. it s terrible to force a human be out of fifty or sixty year of good life. i m only forty myself. i know. but at the same time one feel that an example should be make because no price be too heavy to pay if if these people and all that they imply can be put an end to. do you quite understand or would you be kind enough to tell your men to take the case off the statue. it s worth look at. 
i understand perfectly. but i don t think anybody here want to see the statue on an empty stomach. excuse me one moment. de forest call up to the ship a fly loop ready on the port side if you please. then to the woman he say with some crispness you might leave u a little discretion in the matter. 
oh of course. thank you for be so patient. i know my argument be silly but she half turn away and go on in a change voice perhaps this will help you to decide. 
she throw out her right arm with a knife in it. before the blade could be return to her throat or her bosom it be twitch from her grip spark a it fly out of the shadow of the ship above and fell flash in the sunshine at the foot of the statue fifty yard away. the outflung arm be arrest rigid a a bar for an instant till the release circuit permit her to bring it slowly to her side. the other woman shrink back silent among the men. 
pirolo rub his hand and takahira nod. 
that be clever of you de forest say he. 
what a glorious pose. dragomiroff murmur for the frighten woman be on the edge of tear. 
why do you stop me. i would have do it. she cry. 
i have no doubt you would say de forest. but we can t waste a life like yours on these people. i hope the arrest didn t sprain your wrist. it s so hard to regulate a fly loop. but i think you be quite right about those person woman and child. we ll take them all away with u if you promise not to do anything stupid to yourself. 
i promise i promise. she control herself with an effort. but it be so important to u woman. we know what it mean. and i think if you saw i be in earnest. 
i saw you be and you ve gain your point. i shall take all your serviles away with me at once. the mayor will make list of their friend and family in the city and the district and he ll ship them after u this afternoon. 
sure say the mayor rise to his foot. keefe if you can see hadn t you good finish level off the old market. it don t look sightly the way it be now and we shan t use it for crowd any more. 
i think you have good wipe out that statue a well mr. mayor say de forest. i don t question it merit a a work of art but i believe it s a shade morbid. 
certainly sir. oh keefe. slag the nigger before you go on to fuse the market. i ll get to the communicator and tell the district that the board be in charge. be you make any special appointment sir. 
none. we haven t men to waste on these back wood. carry on a before but under the board. arnott run your serviles aboard please. grind ship and pas them through the bilge door. we ll wait till we ve finish with this work of art. 
the prisoner trail past him talk fluently but unable to gesticulate in the drag of the current. then the surfacers roll up two on each side of the statue. with one accord the spectator look elsewhere but there be no need. keefe turn on full power and the thing simply melt within it case. all i saw be a surge of white hot metal pour over the plinth a glimpse of salad s inscription to the eternal memory of the justice of the people ere the stone base itself crack and powder into fine lime. the crowd cheer. 
thank you say de forest. but we want our break fast and i expect you do too. good bye mr. mayor. delight to see you at any time but i hope i shan t have to officially for the next thirty year. good bye madam. yes. we re all give to nerve nowadays. i suffer from them myself. good bye gentleman all. you re under the tyrannous heel of the board from this moment but if ever you feel like break your fetter you ve only to let u know. this be no treat to u. good luck. 
we embark amid shout and do not check our lift till they have dwindle into whisper. then de forest fling himself on the chart room divan and mop his forehead. 
i don t mind men he pant but woman be the devil. 
still the devil say pirolo cheerfully. that one would have suicided. 
i know it. that be why i signal for the fly loop to be clap on her. i owe you an apology for that arnott. i hadn t time to catch your eye and you be busy with our caitiff. by the way who actually answer my signal. it be a smart piece of work. 
ilroy say arnott. but he overload the wave. it may be pretty gallery work to knock a knife out of a lady s hand but didn t you notice how she rub em. he scorch her finger. slovenly i call it. 
far be it from me to interfere with fleet discipline but don t be too hard on the boy. if that woman have kill herself they would have kill every servile and everything relate to a servile throughout the district by nightfall. 
that be what she be play for takahira say. and with our fleet go we could have do nothing to hold them. 
i may be as enough to walk into a grind circuit say arnott but i don t dismiss my fleet till i m reasonably sure that trouble be over. they re in position still and i intend to keep em there till the serviles be ship out of the district. that last little crowd mean murder my friend. 
nerve. all nerve. say pirolo. you cannot argue with agoraphobia. 
and it be not a if they have see much dead or be it. say takahira. 
in all my ninety year i have never see death. dragomiroff speak a one who would excuse himself. perhaps that be why last night. 
then it come out a we sit over breakfast that with the exception of arnott and pirolo none of u have ever see a corpse or know in what manner the spirit pass. 
we re a nice lot to flap about govern the planet de forest laugh. i confess now it s all over that my main fear be i mightn t be able to pull it off without lose a life. 
i think of that too say arnott. but there s no death report and i ve inquire everywhere. what be we suppose to do with our passenger. i ve feed em. 
we re between two switch de forest drawl. if we drop them in any place that isn t under the board the native will make their presence an excuse for cut out same a illinois do and force the board to take over. if we drop them in any place under the board s control they ll be kill a soon a our back be turn. 
if you say so say pirolo thoughtfully i can guarantee that they will become extinct in process of time quite happily. what be their birth rate now. 
go down and ask em say de forest. 
i think they might become nervous and tear me to bit the philosopher of foggia reply. 
not really. well. 
open the bilge door say takahira with a downward jerk of the thumb. 
scarcely after all the trouble we ve take to save em say de forest. 
try london arnott suggest. you could turn satan himself loose there and they d only ask him to dinner. 
good man. you ve give me an idea. vincent. oh vincent. he throw the general communicator open so that we could all hear and in a few minute the chart room fill with the rich fruity voice of leopold vincent who ha purvey all london her choice amusement for the last thirty year. we answer with expectant grin a though we be actually in the stall of say the combination on a first night. 
we ve pick up something in your line de forest begin. 
that s good dear man. if it s old enough. there s nothing to beat the old thing for business purpose. have you see london chatham and dover at earl s court. no. i think i miss you there. immense. i ve have the real steam locomotive engine build from the old design and the iron rail cast specially by hand. cloth cushion in the carriage too. immense. and paper railway ticket. and polly milton. 
polly milton back again. say arnott rapturously. book me two stall for to morrow night. what s she sing now bless her. 
the old song. nothing come up to the old touch. listen to this dear men. vincent carol with flourish. 
oh cruel lamp of london if tear your light could drown your victim eye would weep them oh light of london town. 
then they weep. 
you see. pirolo wave his hand at u. the old world always weep when it saw crowd together. it do not know why but it weep. we know why but we do not weep except when we pay to be make to by fat wicked old vincent. 
old yourself. vincent laugh. i m a public benefactor i keep the world soft and unite. 
and i m de forest of the board say de forest acidly try to get a little business do. a i be say i ve pick up a few people in chicago. 
i cut out. chicago be. 
do listen. they re perfectly unique. 
do they build house of bake mudblocks while you wait eh. that s an old contact. 
they re an untouched primitive community with all the old idea. 
sew machine and maypole dance. cook on coal gas stove light pipe with match and drive horse. gerolstein try that last year. an absolute blow out. 
de forest plug him wrathfully and pour out the story of our do for the last twenty four hour on the top note. 
and they do it all in public he conclude. you can t stop em. the more public the good they be please. they ll talk for hour like you. now you can come in again. 
do you really mean they know how to vote. say vincent. can they act it. 
act. it s their life to em. and you never saw such face. scar like volcano. envy hatred and malice in plain sight. wonderfully flexible voice. they weep too. 
aloud. in public. 
i guarantee. not a spark of shame or reticence in the entire installation. it s the chance of your career. 
d you say you ve bring their vote prop along those paper and ballot box thing. 
no confound you. i m not a luggage lifter. apply direct to the mayor of chicago. he ll forward you everything. well. 
wait a minute. do chicago want to kill em. that ud look well on the communicator. 
yes. they be only rescue with difficulty from a howl mob if you know what that be. 
but i don t answer the great vincent simply. 
well then they ll tell you themselves. they can make speech hour long. 
how many be there. 
by the time we ship em all over they ll be perhaps a hundred count child. an old world in miniature. can t you see it. 
m yes. but i ve get to pay for it if it s a blow out dear man. 
they can sing the old war song in the street. they can get word drink and make crowd and invade privacy in the genuine old fashion way. and they ll do the vote trick a often a you ask em a question. 
too good. say vincent. 
you unbelieving jew. i ve get a dozen head aboard here. i ll put you through direct. sample em yourself. 
he lift the switch and we listen. our passenger on the low deck at once but not le than five at a time explain themselves to vincent. they have be take from the bosom of their family strip of their possession give food without finger bowl and cast into captivity in a noisome dungeon. 
but look here say arnott aghast. they re say what isn t true. my low deck isn t noisome and i saw to the finger bowl myself. 
my people talk like that sometimes in little russia say dragomiroff. we reason with them. we never kill. no. 
but it s not true arnott insist. what can you do with people who don t tell fact. they re mad. 
hsh. say pirolo his hand to his ear. it be such a little time since all the planet tell lie. 
we hear vincent silkily sympathetic. would they he ask repeat their assertion in public before a vast public. only let vincent give them a chance and the planet they vow should ring with their wrong. their aim in life two woman and a man explain it together be to reform the world. oddly enough this also have be vincent s life dream. he offer them an arena in which to explain and by their live example to raise the planet to lofty level. he be eloquent on the moral uplift of a simple old world life present in it entirety to a deboshed civilisation. 
could they would they for three month certain devote themselves under his auspex a missionary to the elevation of mankind at a place call earl s court which he say with some truth be one of the intellectual centre of the planet. they thank him and demand. we could hear his chuckle of delight. time to discus and to vote on the matter. the vote solemnly manage by count head one head one vote be favourable. his offer therefore be accept and they move a vote of thank to him in two speech one by what they call the proposer and the other by the seconder. 
vincent throw over to u his voice shake with gratitude. 
i ve get em. do you hear those speech. that s nature dear men. art can t teach that. and they vote a easily a lie. i ve never have a troupe of natural liar before. bless you dear men. remember you re on my free list for ever anywhere all of you. oh gerolstein will be sick sick. 
then you think they ll do. say de forest. 
do. the little village ll go crazy. i ll knock up a series of old world play for em. their voice will make you laugh and cry. my god dear men where do you suppose they pick up all their misery from on this sweet earth. i ll have a pageant of the world s beginning and mosenthal shall do the music. i ll. 
go and knock up a village for em by to night. we ll meet you at no. west land tower say de forest. remember the rest will be come along to morrow. 
let em all come. say vincent. you don t know how hard it be nowadays even for me to find something that really get under the public s damn iridium plat hide. but i ve get it at last. good bye. 
well say de forest when we have finish laugh if any one understand corruption in london i might have play off vincent against gerolstein and sell my captive at enormous price. a it be i shall have to be their legal adviser to night when the contract be sign. and they win t exactly press any commission on me either. 
meantime say takahira we cannot of course confine member of leopold vincent s last engage company. chair for the lady please arnott. 
then i go to bed say de forest. i can t face any more woman. and he vanish. 
when our passenger be release and give another meal. finger bowl come first this time. they tell u what they think of u and the board. and like vincent we all marvel how they have contrive to extract and secrete so much bitter poison and unrest out of the good life god give u. they rag they storm they palpitate flush and exhaust their poor tear nerve pant themselves into silence and renew the senseless shameless attack. 
but can t you understand say pirolo pathetically to a shriek woman that if we d leave you in chicago you d have be kill. 
no we shouldn t. you be bind to save u from be murder. 
then we should have have to kill a lot of other people. 
that doesn t matter. we be preach the truth. you can t stop u. we shall go on preach in london. and then you ll see. 
you can see now say pirolo and open a low shutter. 
we be close on the little village with her three million people spread out at ease inside her ring of girdle main traffic light those eight fix beam at chatham tonbridge redhill dorking woking st. albans chip ongar and southend. 
leopold vincent s new company look with small pale face at the silence the size and the separate house. 
then some begin to weep aloud shamelessly always without shame. 
macdonough s song. 
whether the state can loose and bind in heaven a well a on earth. if it be wise to kill mankind before or after the birth these be matter of high concern where state keep schoolman be. but holy state. we have live to learn. endeth in holy war. 
whether the people be lead by the lord or lure by the loud throat. if it be quick to die by the sword or cheap to die by vote these be the thing we have deal with once. and they will not rise from their grave. for holy people however it run endeth in wholly slave. 
whatsoever for any cause seeketh to take or give power above or beyond the law suffer it not to live. holy state or holy king or holy people s will have no truck with the senseless thing. order the gun and kill. say after me. 
once there be the people terror give it birth. once there be the people and it make a hell of earth. earth arise and crush it. listen o ye slay. once there be the people it shall never be again. 
friendly brook. 
march. 
the valley be so choke with fog that one could scarcely see a cow s length across a field. every blade twig bracken frond and hoof print carry water and the air be fill with the noise of rush ditch and field drain all deliver to the brook below. a week s november rain on water log land have gorge her to full flood and she proclaim it aloud. 
two men in sackcloth apron be consider an untrimmed hedge that run down the hillside and disappear into mist beside those roaring. they stand back and take stock of the neglect growth tap an elbow of hedge oak here a mossed beech stub there sway a stool ash back and forth and look at each other. 
i reckon she s about two rod thick say jabez the young an she hasn t felt iron since when ha she jesse. 
call it twenty five year jabez an you win t be far out. 
umm. jabez rub his wet handbill on his wet coat sleeve. she ain t a hedge. she s all manner o tree. we ll just about have to he pause a professional etiquette require. 
just about have to side her up an see what she ll bear. but hadn t we best. jesse pause in his turn both men be artist and equal. 
get some kind o line to go by. jabez range up and down till he find a thin place and with clean snick of the handbill reveal the original face of the fence. jesse take over the drip stuff a it fell forward and with a grasp and a kick make it to lie orderly on the bank till it should be faggot. 
by noon a length of unclean jungle have turn itself into a cattle proof barrier tufted here and there with little plume of the sacred holly which no woodman touch without order. 
now we ve a witness board to go by. say jesse at last. 
she win t be a easy a this all along jabez answer. she ll need plenty stake and binder when we come to the brook. 
well ain t we plenty. jesse point to the rag perspective ahead of them that plunge downhill into the fog. i lay there s a cord an a half o firewood let alone faggot fore we get anywheres anigh the brook. 
the brook s get up a piece since morning say jabez. sound like s if she be over wickenden s door stone. 
jesse listen too. there be a growl in the brook s roar a though she worry something hard. 
yes. she s over wickenden s door stone he reply. now she ll flood acrost alder bay an that ll ease her. 
she win t ease jim wickenden s hay none if she do jabez grunt. i tell jim he d set that liddle hay stack o his too low down in the medder. i tell him so when he be drawin the bottom for it. 
i tell him so too say jesse. i tell him fore ever you do. i tell him when the county council tar the road up along. he point uphill where unseen automobile and road engine drone past continually. a tar road she shoot every drop o water into a valley same s a slate roof. tisn t a twas in the old day when the water soak in and soak out in the way o nature. it rooshes off they tar road all of a lump and naturally every drop be bind to descend into the valley. and there s tar road both two side this valley for ten mile. that s what i tell jim wickenden when they tar the road last year. but he s a valley man. he don t hardly ever journey uphill. 
what do he say when you tell him that. jabez demand with a little change of voice. 
why. what do he say to you when you tell him. be the answer. 
what he say to you i reckon jesse. 
then you don t need me to say it over again jabez. 
well let be how twill what be he gettin after when he say what he say to me. jabez insist. 
i dunno. unless you tell me what manner o word he say to you. 
jabez draw back from the hedge all hedge be nest of treachery and eavesdrop and move to an open cattle lodge in the centre of the field. 
no need to go ferretin around say jesse. none can t see u here fore we see them. 
what be jim wickenden gettin at when i say he d set his stack too near anigh the brook. jabez drop his voice. he be in his mind. 
he ain t never be out of it yet to my knowledge jesse drawl and uncork his tea bottle. 
but then jim say. i ain t goin to shift my stack a yard he say. the brook s be good friend to me and if she be mind he say to take a snatch at my hay i ain t settin out to withstand her. that s what jim wickenden say to me last last june end twas say jabez. 
nor he hasn t shift his stack neither jesse reply. an if there s more rain the brook she ll shift it for him. 
no need tell me. but i want to know what jim be gettin at. 
jabez open his clasp knife very deliberately. jesse a carefully open his. they unfold the newspaper that wrap their dinner coil away and pocket the string that bind the package and sit down on the edge of the lodge manger. the rain begin to fall again through the fog and the brook s voice rise. 
* * * * *. 
but i always allow mary be his lawful child like say jabez after jesse have speak for a while. 
tain t so. jim wickenden s woman she never make nothing. she come out o lewes with her stockin s round her heel an she never make nor mend aught till she die. he have to light fire an get breakfast every mornin except sunday while she sow it abed. then she take an die sixteen seventeen year back. but she never have no childern. 
they be valley folk say jabez apologetically. i d no call to go in among em but i always allow mary. 
no. mary come out o one o those lunnon childern society. after his woman die jim get his mother back from his sister over to peasmarsh which she d go to house with when jim marry. his mother keep house for jim after his woman die. they do say twas his mother lead him on toward adoptin of mary to furnish out the house with a child like and to keep him off of gettin a noo woman. he mostly do what his mother contrive. cardenly twixt em they ask for a child from one o those lunnon society same a it might ha be these barnardo child an mary be send down to em in a candle box i ve hear. 
then mary be chance bear. i never know that say jabez. yet i must ha hear it some time or other. 
no. she ain t. twould ha be good for some folk if she have be. she come to jim in a candle box with all the proper paper lawful child o some couple in lunnon somewhere mother dead father drinkin. and there be that lunnon society s five shillin s a week for her. jim s mother she wouldn t despise week end money but i never hear jim be much of a muck grubber. let be how twill they two mother up mary no bound till it look at last like they d forget she wasn t their own flesh an blood. yes i reckon they forget mary wasn t their n by right. 
that s no new thing say jabez. there s more n one or two in this parish wouldn t surrender back their bernarders. you ask mark copley an his woman an that bernarder cripple babe o theirs. 
maybe they need the five shillin jesse suggest. 
it s handy say jabez. but the child s more. dada he say an mumma he say with his great rollin head piece all hurdle up in that iron collar. he win t live long his backbone s rotten like. but they copley do just about set store by him five bob or no five bob. 
same way with jim an his mother jesse go on. there be talk betwixt em after a few year o not takin any more week end money for mary. but let alone she never pass a farden in the mire thout longin s jim didn t care like to push himself forward into the society s remembrance. so naun come of it. the week end money would ha make no odds to jim not after his uncle will him they four cottage at eastbourne an money in the bank. 
that be true too then. i hear something in a scadderin word o mouth way say jabez. 
i ll answer for the house property because jim he request my sign name at the foot o some paper concernin it. regardin the money in the bank he nature ally wouldn t like such thing talk about all round the parish so he take stranger for witness. 
then twill make mary worth seekin after. 
she ll need it. her maker ain t do much for her outside nor yet in. 
that ain t no odds. jabez shake his head till the water shower off his hat brim. if mary ha money she ll be wed before any likely pore maid. she s cause to be grateful to jim. 
she hide it middlin close then say jesse. it don t sometimes look to me a if mary ha her natural rightful feelin s. she don t put on an apron o monday thout be druv to it in the kitchen or the hen house. she s studyin to be a school teacher. she ll make a beauty. i never know her show any sort o kindness to nobody not even when jim s mother be take dumb. no. twadn t no stroke. it stifle the old lady in the throat here. first she couldn t shape her word no shape. then she cluck like an lastly she couldn t more than suck down spoon meat an hold her peace. jim take her to doctor harding an harding he bundle her off to brighton hospital on a ticket but they couldn t make no stay to her affliction there. and she be bundle off to lunnon an they light a great old lamp inside her and jim tell me they couldn t make out nothing in no sort there. and along o one thing an another an all their spyin s and pryin s she come back a hem sight bad than when she start. jim say he d have no more hospitalizin so he give her a slate which she tie to her waist string and what she be mind to say she writ on it. 
now i never know that. but they re valley folk jabez repeat. 
twadn t particular noticeable for she wasn t a talkin woman any time o her day. mary have all three s tongue. well then two year this summer come what i m tellin you. mary s lunnon father which they d put clean out o their mind arrive down from lunnon with the law on his side sayin he d take his daughter back to lunnon after all. i be work for mu dockett at pound farm that summer but i be obligin jim that evenin muckin out his pig pen. i seed a strange come traipsin over the bridge agin wickenden s door stone. twadn t the new county council bridge with the handrail. they hadn t give it in for a public right o way then. twas just a bite o lathy old plank which jim have throw acrost the brook for his own convenience. the man wasn t drink only a little concern in liquor like an his back be a mask where he d slip in the muck comin along. he go up the brick past jim s mother which be feedin the duck an set himself down at the table inside jim be just changin his sock an the man let jim know all his right and aim regardin mary. then there just about be a hurly bulloo. jim s fust mind be to pitch him forth but he d do that once in his young day and get six month up to lewes jail along o the man fallin on his head. so he swallow his spittle an let him talk. the law about mary be on the man s side from fust to last for he show u all the paper. then mary come downstairs she d be studyin for an examination an the man tell her who he be an she say he have ought to have take proper care of his own flesh and blood while he have it by him an not to think he could ree claim it when it suit. he say somethin or other but she look him up an down front an backwent an she just tongue him scadderin out o door and he go away stuffin all the paper back into his hat talkin most abusefully. then she come back an free her mind against jim an his mother for not havin warn her of her upbringin s which it come out she hadn t ever be tell. they didn t say naun to her. they never do. i d ha pack her off with any man that would ha take her an god s pity on him. 
umm. say jabez and suck his pipe. 
so then that be the beginnin. the man come back again next week or so an he catch jim alone thout his mother this time an he fair beazled him with his paper an his talk for the law be on his side till jim go down into his money purse an give him ten shilling hush money he tell me to withdraw away for a bite an leave mary with em. 
but that s no way to get rid o man or woman jabez say. 
no more ti. i tell jim so. what can i do. jim say. the law s with the man. i walk about daytime thinkin o it till i sweat my underclothes wringin an i lie abed night thinkin o it till i sweat my sheet all of a sop. tisn t a if i be a young man he say nor yet a if i be a pore man. maybe he ll drink hisself to death. i e en a most tell him outright what foolishness he be enterin into but he know it he know it because he say next time the man come twould be fifteen shillin s. an next time twas. just fifteen shillin s. 
an be the man her father. ask jabez. 
he have the proof an the paper. jim show me what that lunnon childern s society have answer when mary writ up to em an tax em with it. i lay she hadn t be proper polite in her letter to em for they answer middlin short. they say the matter be out o their hand but let s see if i remember oh yes they ree gretted there have be an oversight. i reckon they have send mary out in the candle box a a orphan instead o havin a father. terrible awkward. then when he d drink up the money the man come again in his usuals an he keep hammerin on and hammerin on about his duty to his pore dear wife an what he d do for his dear daughter in lunnon till the tear runned down his two dirty cheek an he come away with more money. jim use to slip it into his hand behind the door. but his mother she hear the chink. she didn t hold with hush money. she d write out all her feelin s on the slate an jim ud be settin up half the night answerin back an show that the man have the law with him. 
hadn t that man no trade nor business then. 
he tell me he be a printer. i reckon though he live on the rate like the rest of em up there in lunnon. 
an how do mary take it. 
she say she d sooner go into service than go with the man. i reckon a mistress ud be middlin put to it for a maid fore she put mary into cap an gown. she be studyin to be a schoo ool teacher. a beauty she ll make. well that be how thing go that fall. mary s lunnon father kep comin an comin carden a he d drink out the money jim give him. an each time he d put up his price for not takin mary away. jim s mother she didn t like partin with no money an bein oblige to write her feelin s on the slate instead o givin em vent by mouth she be just about mad. just about she be mad. 
come november i lodge with jim in the outside room over gainst his hen house. i pay her my rent. i be workin for dockett at pound gettin chestnut bat out o perry shaw. just such weather a this be rain atop o rain after a wet october. an i remember it end in dry frost right away up to christmas. dockett he d send up to perry shaw for me no he come puffin up to me himself because a big corner piece o the bank have slip into the brook where she make that elber at the bottom o the seventeen acre an all the rubbishy alder an sally which he ought to have cut out when he take the farm they d slip with the slip an the brook be comin rooshin down atop of em an they d just about back an spill the water over his winter wheat. the water be lyin in the flat already. gor a mighty jesse. he bellers out at me get that rubbish away all manner you can. don t stop for no fagottin but give the brook play or my wheat s past salvation. i can t lend you no help he say but work an i ll pay ye. 
you have him there jabez chuckle. 
yes. i reckon i have ought to have drive my bargain but the brook be backin up on good bread corn. so cardenly i lay into the mess of it workin off the bank where the tree be drownin themselves head down in the roosh just such weather a this an the brook creepin up on me all the time. long toward noon jim come mowchin along with his toppin axe over his shoulder. 
be you mind for an extra hand at your job. he say. 
be you mind to turn to. i s an no more talk to it jim lay in alongside o me. he s no hunger with a toppin axe. 
maybe but i ve seed him at a job o throwin in the wood an he didn t seem to make out no shape say jabez. he haven t get the shoulder nor yet the judgment my opinion when he s dealin with full gird timber. he don t rightly make up his mind where he s goin to throw her. 
we wasn t throwin nothin. we be cuttin out they soft alder an haulin em up the bank fore they could back the water on the wheat. jim didn t say much le it be that he d have a postcard from mary s lunnon father night before sayin he be comin down that mornin. jim he d sweat all night an he didn t reckon hisself equal to the talkin an the swearin an the cryin an his mother blamin him afterwards on the slate. it spiled my day to think of it he s when we be eatin our piece. so i ve fair cry dunghill an run. mother ll have to tackle him by herself. i lay she win t give him no hush money he s. i lay he ll be surprise by the time he s do with her_ he s. an that be e en a most all the talk we have concernin it. but he s no hunger with the toppin axe. 
the brook she d crep up an up on u an she kep creepin upon u till we be workin knee deep in the shallers cuttin an pookin an pullin what we could get to o the rubbish. there be a middlin lot comin down stream too cattle bar an hop pole and odds end bat all poltin down together. but they rooshed round the elber good shape by the time we d back out they drown tree. come four o clock we reckon we d do a proper day s work an she d take no harm if we leave her. we couldn t puddle about there in the dark an wet to no more advantage. jim he be pourin the water out of his boot no i be doin that. jim be kneelin to unlace his n. damn it all jesse he s standin up. the flood must be over my doorstep at home for here come my old white top bee skep. 
yes. i allus hear he paint his bee skep jabez put in. i dunno paint don t tarrify bee more n it keep em dry. 
i ll have a pook at it he s an he pooks at it a it come round the elber. the roosh nigh jerk the pooker out of his hand grip an he call to me an i come runnin barefoot. then we pull on the pooker an it rear up on eend in the roosh an we guess what twas. cardenly we pull it in into a shaller an it roll a piece an a great old stiff man s arm nigh hit me in the face. then we be sure. ti a man s jim. but the face be all a mask. i reckon it s mary s lunnon father he s presently. lend me a match and i ll make sure. he never use baccy. we light three match one by another well s we could in the rain an he clean off some o the slob with a tussick o grass. yes he s. it s mary s lunnon father. he win t tarrify u no more. d you want him jesse. he s. 
no i s. if this be eastbourne beach like he d be half a crown apiece to u fore the coroner. but now we d only lose a day havin to tend the inquest. i lay he fell into the brook. 
i lay he do s jim. i wonder if he saw mother. he turn him over an open his coat and put his finger in the waistcoat pocket an start laughin. he s see mother right enough he s. an he s get the best of her too. she win t be able to crow no more over me bout givin him money. i never give him more than a sovereign. she s give him two. an he trouser em laughin all the time. an now we ll pook him back again for i ve do with him he s. 
so we pooked him back into the middle of the brook an we saw he go round the elber thout balkin an we walk quite a piece beside of him to set him on his way. when we couldn t see no more we go home by the high road because we know the brook u d be out acrost the medders an we wasn t goin to hunt for jim s little rotten old bridge in that dark an rainin heaven hard too. i be middlin please to see light an vittles again when we get home. jim he press me to come inside for a drink. he don t drink in a generality but he be rid of all his trouble that evenin d ye see. mother he s so soon a the door ope d have you see him. she whip out her slate an write down no. oh no s jim. you don t get out of it that way mother. i lay you have see him an i lay he s best you for all your talk same a he best me. make a clean breast of it mother he s. he get round you too. she be goin for the slate again but he stop her. it s all right mother he s. i ve see him sense you have an he win t trouble u no more. the old lady look up quick a a robin an she write do he say so. no s jim laughin. he didn t say so. that s how i know. but he best you_ mother. you can t have it in at me for bein soft hearted. you re twice a tender hearted a what i be. look. he s an he show her the two sovereign. put em away where they belong he s. he win t never come for no more. an now we ll have our drink he s for we ve earn it. 
nature ally they weren t goin to let me see where they kep their monies. she go upstairs with it for the whisky. 
i never know jim be a drinkin man in his own house like say jabez. 
no more he isn t. but what he take he like good. he win t tech no publican s hogwash acrost the bar. four shillin s he pay for that bottle o whisky. i know because when the old lady bring it down there wasn t more n jest a liddle few dreenin s an dreg in it. nothin to set before neighbour i do assure you. 
why twas half full last week mother he s. you don t mean he s you ve give him all that a well. it s two shillin s worth he s. that s how i know he pay four. well well mother you be too tender cart to live. but i don t grudge it to him he s. i don t grudge him nothin he can keep. so cardenly we drink up what little sup be leave. 
an what come to mary s lunnon father. say jabez after a full minute s silence. 
i be too tire to go readin paper of evenin s. but dockett he tell me that very week i think that they d inquested on a man down at robertsbridge which have poke and poke up agin so many bridge an bank like they couldn t make naun out of him. 
an what do mary say to all these doin s. 
the old lady bundle her off to the village fore her lunnon father come to buy week end stuff. an she forget the half o it. when we come in she be upstairs studyin to be a school teacher. none tell her naun about it. twadn t girl affair. 
reckon she know. jabez go on. 
she. she must have guess it middlin close when she saw her money come back. but she never mention it in write so far s i know. she be more worritted that night on account of two three her chicken bein drown for the flood have skew their old hen house round on her post. i cobble her up next mornin when the brook shrink. 
an where do you find the bridge. some fur down stream didn t ye. 
just where she allus be. she hadn t shift but very little. the brook have gull out the bank a piece under one eend o the plank so s she be liable to tilt ye sideways if you wasn t careful. but i pooked three four brick under her an she be all plumb again. 
well i dunno how it look like but let be how twill say jabez he hadn t no business to come down from lunnon tarrifyin people an threatenin to take away child which they d hob up for their lawful own even if twas mary wickenden. 
he have the business right enough an he have the law with him no gettin over that say jesse. but he have the drink with him too an that be where he fail like. 
well well. let be how twill the brook be a good friend to jim. i see it now. i allus do wonder what he be gettin at when he say that when i talk to him about shiftin the stack. you dunno everythin he s. the brook s be a good friend to me he s an if she s mind to have a snatch at my hay i ain t settin out to withstand her. 
i reckon she s about shift it too by now jesse chuckle. hark. that ain t any slip off the bank which she s get hold of. 
the brook have change her note again. it sound a though she be mumble something soft. 
the land. 
when julius fabricius sub prefect of the weald in the day of diocletian own our low river field he call to him hobdenius a briton of the clay say. what about that river piece for layin in to hay. 
and the age hobden answer. i remember a a lad my father tell your father that she want dreenin bad. an the more that you neeglect her the le you ll get her clean. have it jest a you ve a mind to but if i be you i d dreen. 
so they drain it long and crossway in the lavish roman style. still we find among the river drift their flake of ancient tile and in drouthy middle august when the bone of meadow show we can trace the line they follow sixteen hundred year ago. 
then julius fabricius die a even prefect do and after certain century imperial rome die too. then do robber enter britain from across the northern main and our low river field be win by ogier the dane. 
well could ogier work his war boat well could ogier wield his brand much he know of foam water not so much of farm land. so he call to him a hobden of the old unaltered blood. say. what about that river bite she doesn t look no good. 
and that age hobden answer. tain t for me to interfere but i ve know that bite o meadow now for five and fifty year. have it jest a you ve a mind to but i ve prove it time on time if you want to change her nature you have get to give her lime. 
ogier send his wain to lewes twenty hour solemn walk and draw back great abundance of the cool grey heal chalk. and old hobden spread it broadcast never heed what be in t. which be why in clean ditch now and then we find a flint. 
ogier die. his son grow english. anglo saxon be their name till out of blossom normandy another pirate come. for duke william conquer england and divide with his men and our low river field he give to william of warenne. 
but the brook. you know her habit. rise one rainy autumn night and tear down sodden flitch of the bank to leave and right. so say william to his bailiff a they ride their drip round. hob what about that river bite the brook s get up no bound. 
and that age hobden answer. tain t my business to advise but ye might ha know twould happen from the way the valley lie. when ye can t hold back the water you must try and save the sile. hev it jest a you ve a mind to but if i be you i d spile. 
they spiled along the water course with trunk of willow tree and plank of elm behind em and immortal oaken knee. and when the spate of autumn whirl the gravel bed away you can see their faithful fragment iron hard in iron clay. 
* * * * *. 
georgii quinti anno sexto_ i who own the river field be fortify with title deed attest sign and seal guarantee me my assign my executor and heir all sort of power and profit which be neither mine nor theirs. 
i have right of chase and warren a my dignity require. i can fish but hobden tickle. i can shoot but hobden wire. i repair but he reopen certain gap which men allege have be use by every hobden since a hobden swap a hedge. 
shall i dog his morning progress o er the track betray dew. demand his dinner basket into which my pheasant fly. confiscate his even faggot into which the cony run and summon him to judgment. i would sooner summon pan. 
his dead be in the churchyard thirty generation lay. their name go down in domesday book when domesday book be make. and the passion and the piety and prowess of his line have seed root fruit in some land the law call mine. 
not for any beast that burrow not for any bird that fly would i lose his large sound council miss his keen amend eye. he be bailiff woodman wheelwright field surveyor engineer and if flagrantly a poacher tain t for me to interfere. 
hob what about that river bite. i turn to him again with fabricius and ogier and william of warenne. hev it jest a you ve a mind to but and so he take command. for whoever pay the tax old mu hobden own the land. 
in the same boat. 

a throb vein say dr. gilbert soothingly be the mother of delusion. 
then how do you account for my know when the thing be due. conroy s voice rise almost to a break. 
of course but you should have consult a doctor before use palliative. 
it be drive me mad. and now i can t give them up. 
not so bad a that. one doesn t form fatal habit at twenty five. think again. be you ever frighten a a child. 
i don t remember. it begin when i be a boy. 
with or without the spasm. by the way do you mind describe the spasm again. 
well say conroy twist in the chair i m no musician but suppose you be a violin string vibrate and some one put his finger on you. a if a finger be put on the naked soul. awful. 
so s indigestion so s nightmare while it last. 
but the horror afterwards knock me out for day. and the wait for it. and then this drug habit. it can t go on. he shake a he speak and the chair creak. 
my dear fellow say the doctor when you re old you ll know what burden the best of u carry. a fox to every spartan. 
that doesn t help me. i can t. i can t. cry conroy and burst into tear. 
don t apologise say gilbert when the paroxysm end. i m use to people come a little unstuck in this room. 
it s those tabloid. conroy stamp his foot feebly a he blow his nose. they ve knock me out. i use to be fit once. oh i ve try exercise and everything. but if one sit down for a minute when it s due even at four in the morning it run up behind one. 
ye e. many thing come in the quiet of the morning. you always know when the visitation be due. 
what would i give not to be sure. he sob. 
we ll put that aside for the moment. i m think of a case where what we ll call anæmia of the brain be mask. i don t say cure. by vibration. he couldn t sleep or think he couldn t but a steamer voyage and the thump of the screw. 
a steamer. after what i ve tell you. conroy almost shriek. i d sooner. 
of course not a steamer in your case but a long railway journey the next time you think it will trouble you. it sound absurd but. 
i d try anything. i nearly have conroy sigh. 
nonsense. i ve give you a tonic that will clear that notion from your head. give the train a chance and don t begin the journey by buck yourself up with tabloid. take them along but hold them in reserve in reserve. 
d you think i ve self control enough after what you ve hear. say conroy. 
dr. gilbert smile. yes. after what i ve see he glance round the room i have no hesitation in say you have quite a much self control a many other people. i ll write you late about your journey. meantime the tonic and he give some general direction before conroy leave. 
an hour late dr. gilbert hurry to the link where the others of his regular week end game await him. it be a rigid round play a usual at the trot for the tension of the week lay a heavy on the two king s counsel and sir john chartres a on gilbert. the lawyer be old enemy of the admiralty court and sir john of the frosty eyebrow and abernethy manner be bracket with but before rutherford gilbert among nerve specialist. 
at the club house afterwards the lawyer renew their squabble over a tangle collision case and the doctor a naturally compare professional matter. 
lie all lie say sir john when gilbert have tell him conroy s trouble. post hoc propter hoc. the man or woman who drug be ipso facto a liar. you ve no imagination. 
pity you haven t a little occasionally. 
i have believe a certain type of patient in my time. it s always the same. for reason not give in the consult room they take to the drug. certain symptom follow. they will swear to you and believe it that they take the drug to mask the symptom. what doe your man use. najdolene. i think so. i have practically the duplicate of your case last thursday. same old najdolene same old lie. 
tell me the symptom and i ll draw my own inference johnnie. 
symptom. the girl be rank poison with najdolene. ramp stamp possession. gad i think she d have the chandelier down. 
mine come unstuck too and he ha the physique of a bull say gilbert. what delusion have yours. 
face face with mildew on them. in any other walk of life we d call it the horror. she tell me of course she take the drug to mask the face. post hoc propter hoc again. all liar. 
what s that. say the senior k. c. quickly. sound professional. 
go away. not for you sandy. sir john turn a shoulder against him and walk with gilbert in the chill even. 
to conroy in his chamber come one week late this letter. 
dear mr. conroy if your plan of a night s trip on the th still hold good and you have no particular destination in view you could do me a kindness. a miss henschil in whom i be interest go down to the west by the. from waterloo. number platform. on that night. she be not exactly an invalid but like so many of u a little shake in her nerve. her maid of course accompany her but if i know you be in the same train it would be an additional source of strength. will you please write and let me know whether the. from waterloo number platform on the th suit you and i will meet you there. don t forget my caution and keep up the tonic. yours sincerely. 
l. rutherford gilbert. 
he know i m scarcely fit to look after myself be conroy s think. and he want me to look after a woman. 
yet at the end of half an hour s irresolution he accept. 
now conroy s trouble which have last for year be this. 
on a certain night while he lay between sleep and wake he would be overtake by a long shudder sigh which he learn to know be the sign that his brain have once more conceive it horror and in time in due time would bring it forth. 
drug could so well veil that horror that it shuffle along no bad than a a freeze dream in a procession of disorderly dream. but over the return of the event drug have no control. once that sigh have pass his lip the thing be inevitable and through the day grant before it rebirth he walk in torment. for the first two year he have strive to fend it off by distraction but neither exercise nor drink avail. then he have come to the tabloid of the excellent m. najdol. these guarantee on the label refresh and absolutely natural sleep to the soul weary. they be carry in a case with a spring which press one scent tabloid to the end of the tube whence it can be lipped off in stroke the moustache or adjust the veil. 
three year of m. najdol s preparation do not fit a man for many career. his friend who know he do not drink assume that conroy have strain his heart through valiant outdoor exercise and conroy have with some care invent an imaginary doctor symptom and regimen which he discuss with them and with his mother in hereford. she maintain that he would grow out of it and recommend nux vomica. 
when at last conroy face a real doctor it be he hop to be save from suicide by a strait waistcoat. yet dr. gilbert have but give him more drug a tonic for instance that would couple railway carnage and have advise a night in the train. not alone the horror of a railway journey. for which a man who dare keep no servant must e en pack label and address his own bag. but the necessity for hold himself in hand before a strange a little shake in her nerve. 
he spend a long forenoon pack because when he assemble and count thing his mind slide off to the hour that remain of the day before his night and he find himself count minute aloud. at such time the injustice of his fate would drive him to revolt which no servant should witness but on this even dr. gilbert s tonic hold him fairly calm while he put up his patent razor. 
waterloo station shake him into real life. the change for his ticket need concentration if only to prevent shilling and penny turn into minute at the book office. and he speak quickly to a porter about the disposition of his bag. the old. from waterloo to the west be an all night caravan that halt in the interest of the milk traffic at almost every station. 
dr. gilbert stand by the door of the one composite corridor coach. an old and stout man behind him. so glad you re here. he cry. let me get your ticket. 
certainly not conroy answer. i get it myself long ago. my bag s in too he add proudly. 
i beg your pardon. miss henschil s here. i ll introduce you. 
but but he stammer think of the state i m in. if anything happen i shall collapse. 
not you. you d rise to the occasion like a bird. and a for the self control you be talk of the other day gilbert swing him round look. 
a young man in an ulster over a silk face frock coat stand by the carriage window weep shamelessly. 
oh but that s only drink conroy say. i haven t have one of my my thing since lunch. 
excellent. say gilbert. i know i could depend on you. come along. wait for a minute chartres. 
a tall woman veil sit by the far window. she bow her head a the doctor murmur conroy know not what. then he disappear and the inspector come for ticket. 
my maid next compartment she say slowly. 
conroy show his ticket but in return it to the sleeve pocket of his ulster the little silver najdolene case slip from his glove and fell to the floor. he snatch it up a the move train fling him into his seat. 
how nice. say the woman. she leisurely lift her veil unbottoned the first button of her leave glove and press out from it palm a najdolene case. 
don t. say conroy not realise he have speak. 
i beg your pardon. the deep voice be measure even and low. conroy know what make it so. 
i say don t. he wouldn t like you to do it. 
no he would not. she hold the tube with it ever present tabloid between finger and thumb. but aren t you one of the ah soul weary too. 
that s why. oh please don t. not at first. i i haven t have one since morning. you you ll set me off. 
you. be you so far go a that. 
he nod press his palm together. the train jolt through vauxhall point and be welcome with the clang of empty milk can for the west. 
after long silence she lift her great eye and with an innocence that would have deceive any sound man ask conroy to call her maid to bring her a forget book. 
conroy shake his head. no. our sort can t read. don t. 
be you send to watch me. the voice never change. 
me. i need a keeper myself much more this night of all. 
this night. have you a night then. they disbelieve me when i tell them of mine. she lean back and laugh always slowly. aren t doctor stu upid. they don t know. 
she lean her elbow on her knee lift her veil that have fall and chin in hand star at him. he look at her till his eye be blur with tear. 
have i be there think you. she say. 
surely surely conroy answer for he have well see the fear and the horror that live behind the heavy lidded eye the fine trace on the broad forehead and the guard set about the desirable mouth. 
then suppose we have one just one apiece. i ve go without since this afternoon. 
he put up his hand and would have shout but his voice break. 
don t. can t you see that it help me to help you to keep it off. don t let s both go down together. 
but i want one. it s a poor heart that never rejoice. just one. it s my night. 
it s mine too. my sixty fourth fifth sixth seventh. he shut his lip firmly against the tide of visualise number that threaten to carry him along. 
ah it s only my thirty ninth. she pause a he have do. i wonder if i shall last into the sixty. talk to me or i shall go crazy. you re a man. you re the strong vessel. tell me when you go to piece. 
one two three four five six seven eight i beg your pardon. 
not in the least. i always pretend i ve drop a stitch of my knit. i count the day till the last day then the hour then the minute. do you. 
i don t think i ve do very much else for the last say conroy shiver for the night be cold with a chill he recognise. 
oh how comfort to find some one who can talk sense. it s not always the same date be it. 
what difference would that make. he unbutton his ulster with a jerk. you re a sane woman. can t you see the wicked wicked wicked. dust fly from the pad arm rest a he strike it. unfairness of it. what have i do. 
she lay her large hand on his shoulder very firmly. 
if you begin to think over that she say you ll go to piece and be ashamed. tell me yours and i ll tell you mine. only be quiet be quiet lad or you ll set me off. she make shift to soothe him though her chin tremble. 
well say he at last pick at the arm rest between them mine s nothing much of course. 
don t be a fool. that s for doctor and mother. 
it s hell conroy mutter. it begin on a steamer on a stifle hot night. i come out of my cabin. i pas through the saloon where the steward have roll up the carpet and the board be bare and hot and soapy. 
i ve travel too she say. 
ah. i come on deck. i walk down a cover alleyway. butch s meat banana oil that sort of smell. 
again she nod. 
it s a lead colour steamer and the sea s lead colour. perfectly smooth sea perfectly still ship except for the engine run and her wave go off in line and line and line dull grey. all this time i know something s go to happen. 
i know. something go to happen she whisper. 
then i hear a thud in the engine room. then the noise of machinery fall down like fire iron and then two most awful yell. they re more like hoot and i know i know while i listen that it mean that two men have die a they hoot. it be their last breath hoot out of them in most awful pain. do you understand. 
i ought to. go on. 
that s the first part. then i hear bare foot run along the alleyway. one of the scald men come up behind me and say quite distinctly my friend. all be lose. then he tap me on the shoulder and i hear him drop down dead. he pant and wipe his forehead. 
so that be your night. she say. 
that be my night. it come every few week so many day after i get what i call sentence. then i begin to count. 
get sentence. d you mean this. she half close her eye draw a deep breath and shudder. notice i call it. sir john think it be all lie. 
she have unpin her hat and throw it on the seat opposite show the immense mass of her black hair roll low in the nape of the columnar neck and loop over the leave ear. but conroy have no eye except for her grave eye. 
listen now. say she. i walk down a road a white sandy road near the sea. there be break fence on either side and men come and look at me over them. 
just men. do they speak. 
they try to. their face be all mildewy eat away and she hide her face for an instant with her leave hand. it s the face the face. 
yes. like my two hoot. i know. 
ah. but the place itself the bareness and the glitter and the salt smell and the wind blow the sand. the men run after me and i run. i know what s come too. one of them touch me. 
yes. what come then. we ve both shirk that. 
one awful shock not palpitation but shock shock shock. 
a though your soul be be stop a you d stop a finger bowl hum. he say. 
just that she answer. one s very soul the soul that one life by stop. so. 
she drive her thumb deep into the arm rest. and now she whine to him now that we ve stir each other up this way mightn t we have just one. 
no say conroy shake. let s hold on. we re past he peer out of the black window woking. there s the necropolis. how long till dawn. 
oh cruel long yet. if one doze for a minute it catch one. 
and how d you find that this he tap the palm of his glove help you. 
it cover up the thing from be too real if one take enough you know. only only one lose everything else. i ve be no more than a bogie girl for two year. what would you give to be real again. this lie s such a nuisance. 
one must protect oneself and there s one s mother to think of he answer. 
true. i hope allowance be make for u somewhere. our burden can you hear. our burden be heavy enough. 
she rise tower into the roof of the carriage. conroy s ungentle grip pull her back. 
now you be foolish. sit down say he. 
but the cruelty of it. can t you see it. don t you feel it. let s take one now before i. 
sit down. cry conroy and the sweat stand again on his forehead. he have fight through a few night and have be defeat on more and he know the rebellion that flare beyond control to exhaustion. 
she smooth her hair and drop back but for a while her head and throat move with the sicken motion of a capture wry neck. 
once she say spread out her hand i rip my counterpane from end to end. that take strength. i have it then. i ve little now. all dorn a my little niece say. and you lad. 
all dorn. let me keep your case for you till the morning. 
but the cold feel be begin. 
lend it me then. 
and the drag down my right side. i shan t be able to move in a minute. 
i can scarcely lift my arm myself say conroy. we re in for it. 
then why be you so foolish. you know it ll be easy if we have only one only one apiece. 
she be lift the case to her mouth. with tremendous effort conroy catch it. the two move like joint doll and when their hand meet it be a wood on wood. 
you must not. say conroy. his jaw stiffen and the cold climb from his foot up. 
why must i not. she repeat the word idiotically. 
conroy could only shake his head while he bore down on the hand and the case in it. 
her speech go from her altogether. the wonderful lip rest half over the even teeth the breath be in the nostril only the eye dull the face set grey and through the glove the hand strike like ice. 
presently her soul come back and stand behind her eye only thing that have life in all that place stand and look for conroy s soul. he too be fetter in every limb but somewhere at an immense distance he hear his heart go about it work a the engine room carry on through and beneath the all but overwhelm wave. his one hope he know be not to lose the eye that cling to his because there be an evil abroad which would posse him if he look aside by a hair breadth. 
the rest be darkness through which some distant planet spin while cymbal clash. beyond farnborough the. roll out many empty milk can at every halt. then a body come to life with intolerable prickling. limb by limb after agony of terror that body return to him steep in most perfect physical weariness such a follow a long day s row. he saw the heavy lid droop over her eye the watcher behind them depart and his soul sink into assure peace conroy sleep. 
light on his eye and a salt breath rouse him without shock. her hand still hold his. she sleep forehead down upon it but the movement of his wake wake her too and she sneeze like a child. 
i i think it s morning say conroy. 
and nothing ha happen. do you see your men. i didn t see my face. doe it mean we ve escape. do do you take any after i go to sleep. i ll swear i didn t she stammer. 
no there wasn t any need. we ve sleep through it. 
no need. thank god. there be no need. oh look. 
the train be run under red cliff along a sea wall wash by wave that be colourless in the early light. southward the sun rise mistily upon the channel. 
she lean out of the window and breathe to the bottom of her lung while the wind wrench down her dishevel hair and blow it below her waist. 
well. she say with splendid eye. aren t you still wait for something to happen. 
no. not till next time. we ve be let off conroy answer breathe a deeply a she. 
then we ought to say our prayer. 
what nonsense. some one will see u. 
we needn t kneel. stand up and say our father. we must. 
it be the first time since childhood that conroy have pray. they laugh hysterically when a curve throw them against an arm rest. 
now for breakfast. she cry. my maid nurse blaber ha the basket and thing. it ll be ready in twenty minute. oh. look at my hair. and she go out laugh. 
conroy s first discovery make without fumble or count letter on tap be that the london and south western s allowance of wash water be inadequate. he use every drop riot in the cold tingle on neck and arm. to shave in a move train balk him but the next halt give him a chance which to his own surprise he take. a he star at himself in the mirror he smile and nod. there be point about this person with the clear if sink eye and the almost uncompress mouth. but when he bore his bag back to his compartment the weight of it on a limp arm humble that new pride. 
my friend he say half aloud you go into train. you re putty. 
she meet him in the spare compartment where her maid have lay breakfast. 
by jove. he say halt at the doorway i hadn t realise how beautiful you be. 
the same to you lad. sit down. i could eat a horse. 
i shouldn t say the maid quietly. the le you eat the good. she be a small freckle woman with light fluffy hair and pale blue eye that look through all veil. 
this be miss blaber say miss henschil. he s one of the soul weary too nursey. 
i know it. but when one ha just give it up a full meal doesn t agree. that s why i ve only bring you bread and butter. 
she go out quietly and conroy redden. 
we re still child you see say miss henschil. but i m well enough to feel some shame of it. d you take sugar. 
they starve together heroically and nurse blaber be good enough to signify approval when she come to clear away. 
nursey. miss henschil insinuate and flush. 
do you smoke. say the nurse coolly to conroy. 
i haven t in year. now you mention it i think i d like a cigarette or something. 
i use to. d you think it would keep me quiet. miss henschil say. 
perhaps. try these. the nurse hand them her cigarette case. 
don t take anything else she command and go away with the tea basket. 
good. grunt conroy between mouthful of tobacco. 
good than nothing say miss henschil. but for a while they felt ashamed yet with the comfort of child punish together. 
now she whisper who be you when you be a man. 
conroy tell her and in return she give him her history. it delight them both to deal once more in worldly concern family name place and date with a person of understand. 
she come she say of lancashire folk wealthy cotton spinner who still keep the broaden a and slur aspirate of the old stock. she live with an old masterful mother in an opulent world north of lancaster gate where people in society give party at a mecca call the langham hotel. 
she herself have be launch into society there and the flower at the ball have cost eighty seven pound. but be reckon peculiar she have make few friend among her own sex. she have attract many men for she be a beauty the beauty in fact of society she say. 
she speak utterly without shame or reticence a a life prisoner tell his past to a fellow prisoner. and conroy nod across the smoke ring. 
do you remember when you get into the carriage. she ask. oh i wish i have some knit. do you notice aught lad. 
conroy think back. it be age since. wasn t there some one outside the door cry. he ask. 
he s he s the little man i be engage to she say. but i make him break it off. i tell him twas no good. but he win t yo see. 
that fellow. why he doesn t come up to your shoulder. 
that s naught to do with it. i think all the world of him. i m a foolish wench her speech wander a she settle herself cosily one elbow on the arm rest. we d be engage i couldn t help that and he worship the grind i tread on. but it s no use. i m not responsible you see. his two sister be against it though i ve the money. they re right but they think it s the dri ink she drawl. they re methody the skinner. you see their grandfather that start the patton mill he die o the dri ink. 
i see say conroy. the grave face before him under the lift veil be trouble. 
george skinner. she breathe it softly. i d make him a good wife by god s gra ace if i could. but it s no use. i m not responsible. but he ll not take no for an answer. i use to call him toot. he s of no consequence yo see. 
that s in dickens say conroy quite quickly. i haven t think of toot for year. he be at doctor blimber s. 
and so that s my trouble she conclude ever so slightly wring her hand. but i don t you think there s hope now. 
eh. say conroy. oh yes. this be the first time i ve turn my corner without help. with your help i should say. 
it ll come back though. 
then shall we meet it in the same way. here s my card. write me your train and we ll go together. 
yes. we must do that. but between time when we want she look at her palm the four finger work on it. it s hard to give em up. 
but think what we have gain already and let me have the case to keep. 
she shake her head and throw her cigarette out of the window. not yet. 
then let s lend our case to nurse and we ll get through to day on cigarette. i ll call her while we feel strong. 
she hesitate but yield at last and nurse accept the offering with a smile. 
you ll be all right she say to miss henschil. but if i be you to conroy i d take strong exercise. 
when they reach their destination conroy set himself to obey nurse blaber. he have no remembrance of that day except one streak of blue sea to his leave gorse bush to his right and before him a coast guard s track mark with white wash stone that he count up to the far thousand. a he return to the little town he saw miss henschil on the beach below the cliff. she kneel at nurse blaber s foot weep and plead. 
* * * * *. 
twenty five day late a telegram come to conroy s room. notice give. waterloo again. twenty fourth. that same even he be waken by the shudder and the sigh that tell him his sentence have go forth. yet he reflect on his pillow that he have in spite of lapse snatch something like three week of life which include several ride on a horse before breakfast the hour one most crave najdolene. five consecutive evening on the river at hammersmith in a tub where he have well stretch the white arm that pass crew mock at. a game of racket at his club. three dinner one small dance and one human flirtation with a human woman. more notable still he have settle his month s account only once confuse petty cash with the day of grace allow him. next morning he ride his hire beast in the park victoriously. he saw miss henschil on horse back near lancaster gate talk to a young man at the railing. 
she wheel and canter toward him. 
by jove. how well you look. he cry without salutation. i didn t know you ride. 
i use to once she reply. i m all soft now. 
they sweep off together down the ride. 
your beast pull he say. 
wa ant him to. gi give me something to think of. how ve you be. she pant. i wish chemist shop hadn t red light. 
have you slip out and buy some then. 
you don t know nursey. eh but it s good to be on a horse again. this chap cost me two hundred. 
then you ve be swindle say conroy. 
i know it but it s no odds. i must go back to toot and send him away. he s neglect his work for me. 
she swing her heavy top animal on his none too sound hock. sentence come lad. 
yes. but i m not mind it so much this time. 
waterloo then and god help u. she thunder back to the little frock coat figure that wait faithfully near the gate. 
conroy felt the spring sun on his shoulder and trot home. that even he go out with a man in a pair oar and be row to a standstill. but the other man own he could not have keep the pace five minute long. 
* * * * *. 
he carry his bag all down number platform at waterloo and heave it with one hand into the rack. 
well do. say nurse blaber in the corridor. we ve improve too. 
dr. gilbert and an old man come out of the next compartment. 
hallo. say gilbert. why haven t you be to see me mr. conroy. come under the lamp. take off your hat. no no. sit you young giant. ve ry good. look here a minute johnnie. 
a little round belly hawk face person glare at him. 
gilbert be right about the beauty of the beast he mutter. d you keep it in your glove now. he go on and punch conroy in the short rib. 
no say conroy meekly but without cough. nowhere on my honour. i ve chuck it for good. 
wait till you be a sound man before you say that_ mr. conroy. sir john chartres stump out say to gilbert in the corridor it s all very fine but the question be shall i or we sir pandarus of troy become eh. we re bind to think of the child. 
have you be vet. say miss henschil a few minute after the train start. may i sit with you. i i don t trust myself yet. i can t give up a easily a you can seemingly. 
can t you. i never saw any one so improve in a month. 
look here. she reach across to the rack single hand lift conroy s bag and hold it at arm s length. i count ten slowly. and i didn t think of hour or minute she boast. 
don t remind me he cry. 
ah. now i ve remind myself. i wish i hadn t. do you think it ll be easy for u to night. 
oh don t. the smell of the carriage have bring back all his last trip to him and conroy move uneasily. 
i m sorry. i ve bring some game she go on. draught and card but they all mean count. i wish i d bring chess but i can t play chess. what can we do. talk about something. 
well how s toot to begin with. say conroy. 
why. do you see him on the platform. 
no. be he there. i didn t notice. 
oh yes. he doesn t understand. he s desperately jealous. i tell him it doesn t matter. will you please let me hold your hand. i believe i m begin to get the chill. 
toot ought to envy me say conroy. 
he doe. he pay you a high compliment the other night. he s take to call again in spite of all they say. 
conroy incline his head. he felt cold and know surely he would be cold. 
he say she yawn. beg your pardon. he say he couldn t see how i could help fall in love with a man like you. and he call himself a damn little rat and he beat his head on the piano last night. 
the piano. you play then. 
only to him. he think the world of my accomplishment. then i tell him i wouldn t have you if you be the last man on earth instead of only the best look not with a million in each stock. 
no not with a million in each stock say conroy vehemently. isn t that odd. 
i suppose so to any one who doesn t know. well where be i. oh george a good a tell me i be deceive him and he want to go away without say good night. he hate stand a tiptoe but he must if i win t sit down. 
conroy would have smile but the chill that foreran the come of the li in wait be upon him and his hand close warningly on hers. 
and and so she be try to say when her hour also overtake her leave alive only the fear dilate eye that turn to conroy. hand freeze on hand and the body with it a they wait for the horror in the blackness that herald it. yet through the bad conroy saw at an uncountable distance one minute glint of light in his night. thither would he go and escape his fear. and behold that light be the light in the watch tower of her eye where her lock soul signal to his soul. look at me. 
in time from him and from her the thing sheer aside that each soul might step down and resume it own concern. he think confusedly of people on the skirt of a thunderstorm withdraw from window where the tear night be to their know and furnish bed. then he doze till in some drowsy turn his hand fell from her warm hand. 
that s all. the face haven t come he hear her say. all thank god. i don t feel even i need what nursey promise me. do you. 
no. he rub his eye. but don t make too sure. 
certainly not. we shall have to try again next month. i m afraid it will be an awful nuisance for you. 
not to me i assure you say conroy and they lean back and laugh at the flatness of the word after the hell through which they have just rise. 
and now she say strict eye on conroy why wouldn t you take me not with a million in each stock. 
i don t know. that s what i ve be puzzle over. 
so have i. we re a handsome a couple a i ve ever see. be you well off lad. 
they call me so say conroy smile. 
that s north country. she laugh again. set aside my good look and yours i ve four thousand a year of my own and the rent should make it six. that s a match some old cat would lap tea all night to fettle up. 
it be. lucky toot. say conroy. 
ay she answer he ll be the lucky lad in london if i win through. who s yours. 
no no one dear. i ve be in hell for year. i only want to get out and be alive and so on. isn t that reason enough. 
maybe for a man. but i never mind thing much till george come. i be all stu upid like. 
so be i but now i think i can live. it ought to be le next month oughtn t it. he say. 
i hope so. ye e. there s nothing much for a maid except to be marry and i ask no more. whoever yours be when you ve find her she shall have a wed present from mr. george skinner that. 
but she wouldn t understand it any more than toot. 
he doesn t matter except to me. i can t keep my eye open thank god. good night lad. 
conroy follow her with his eye. beauty there be grace there be strength and enough of the rest to drive good men than george skinner to beat their head on piano top but for the new find life of him conroy could not feel one flutter of instinct or emotion that turn to herward. he put up his foot and fell asleep dream of a joyous normal world recover with interest on arrears. there be many thing in it but no one face of any one woman. 
* * * * *. 
thrice afterward they take the same train and each time their trouble shrink and weaken. miss henschil talk of toot his multiply call the thing he have say to his sister the much bad thing his sister have reply. of the late. he seem very dead to them. m. najdol s gift for the soul weary. of shop of house rent and the cost of really artistic furniture and linen. 
conroy explain the exercise in which he delight mighty labour of play undertake against other mighty men till he sweat and have bath sleep. he have visit his mother too in hereford and he talk something of her and of the home life which his body cut out of all clean life for five year innocently and deeply enjoy. nurse blaber be a little interest in conroy s mother but a a rule she smoke her cigarette and read her paper back novel in her own compartment. 
on their last trip she volunteer to sit with them and bury herself in the cloister and the hearth while they whisper together. on that occasion. it be near salisbury. at two in the morning when the li in wait brush them with his wing it mean no more than that they should cease talk for the instant and for the instant hold hand a even utter stranger on the deep may do when their ship roll underfoot. 
but still say nurse blaber not look up i think your mr. skinner might feel jealous of all this. 
it would be difficult to explain say conroy. 
then you d good not be at my wed miss henschil laugh. 
after all we ve go through too. but i suppose you ought to leave me out. be the day fix. he cry. 
twenty second of september in spite of both his sister. i can risk it now. her face be glorious a she flush. 
my dear chap. he shake hand unreservedly and she give back his grip without flinch. i can t tell you how please i be. 
gracious heaven. say nurse blaber in a new voice. oh i beg your pardon. i forget i wasn t pay to be surprise. 
what at. oh i see. miss henschil explain to conroy. she expect you be go to kiss me or i be go to kiss you or something. 
after all you ve go through a mr. conroy say. 
but i couldn t could you. say miss henschil with a disgust a frank a that on conroy s face. it would be horrible horrible. and yet of course you re wonderfully handsome. how d you account for it nursey. 
nurse blaber shake her head. i be hire to cure you of a habit dear. when you re cure i shall go on to the next case that senile decay one at bourne mouth i tell you about. 
and i shall be leave alone with george. but suppose it isn t cure say miss henschil of a sudden. suppose it come back again. what can i do. i can t send for him in this way when i m a marry woman. she point like an infant. 
i d come of course conroy answer. but seriously that be a consideration. 
they look at each other alarm and anxious and then toward nurse blaber who close her book mark the place and turn to face them. 
have you ever talk to your mother a you have to me. she say. 
no. i might have speak to dad but mother s different. what d you mean. 
and you ve never talk to your mother either mr. conroy. 
not till i take najdolene. then i tell her it be my heart. there s no need to say anything now that i m practically over it be there. 
not if it doesn t come back but she beckon with a stumpy triumphant linger that draw their head close together. you know i always go in and read a chapter to mother at tea child. 
i know you do. you re an angel miss henschil pat the blue shoulder next her. mother s church of england now she explain. but she ll have her bible with her pikelets at tea every night like the skinner. 
it be naaman and gehazi last tuesday that give me a clue. i say i d never see a case of leprosy and your mother say she d see too many. 
where. she never tell me miss henschil begin. 
a few month before you be bear on her trip to australia at mola or molo something or other. it take me three evening to get it all out. 
ay mother s suspicious of question say miss henschil to conroy. she ll lock the door of every room she s in if it s but for five minute. she be a tackberry from jarrow way yo see. 
she describe your men to the life men with face all eat away star at her over the fence of a leper hospital in this molo island. they beg from her and she run she tell me all down the street back to the pier. one touch her and she nearly faint. she s ashamed of that still. 
my men. the sand and the fence. miss henschil mutter. 
yes. you know how tidy she be and how she hate wind. she remember that the fence be break she remember the wind blow. sand sun salt wind fence face i get it all out of her bite by bite. you don t know what i know. and it all happen three or four month before you be bear. there. nurse blaber slap her knee with her little hand triumphantly. 
would that account for it. miss henschil shake from head to foot. 
absolutely. i don t care who you ask. you never imagine the thing. it be lay on you. it happen on earth to you. quick mr. conroy she s too heavy for me. i ll get the flask. 
miss henschil lean forward and collapse a conroy tell her afterwards like a factory chimney. she come out of her swoon with teeth that chatter on the cup. 
no no she say gulp. it s not hysteric. yo see i ve no call to hev em any more. no call no reason whatever. god be praise. can t yo feel i m a right woman now. 
stop hug me. say nurse blaber. you don t know your strength. finish the brandy and water. it s perfectly reasonable and i ll lay long odds mr. conroy s case be something of the same. i ve be think. 
i wonder say conroy and push the girl back a she sway again. 
nurse blaber smooth her pale hair. yes. your trouble or something like it happen somewhere on earth or sea to the mother who bore you. ask her child. ask her and be do with it once for all. 
i will say conroy. there ought to be he open his bag and hunt breathlessly. 
bless you. oh god bless you nursey. miss henschil be sob. you don t know what this mean to me. it take it all off from the begin. 
but doesn t it make any difference to you now. the nurse ask curiously. now that you re rightfully a woman. 
conroy busy with his bag have not hear. miss henschil star across and her beauty free from the shadow of any fear blaze up within her. i see what you mean she say. but it hasn t change anything. i want toot. he ha never be out of his mind in his life except over silly me. 
it s all right say conroy stoop under the lamp bradshaw in hand. if i change at templecombe for bristol. bristol hereford yes. i can be with mother for breakfast in her room and find out. 
quick then say nurse blaber. we ve pass gillingham quite a while. you d good take some of our sandwich. she go out to get them. conroy and miss henschil would have dance but there be no room for giant in a south western compartment. 
good bye good luck lad. eh but you ve change already like me. send a wire to our hotel a soon a you re sure say miss henschil. what should i have do without you. 
or i. say conroy. but it s nurse that s save u really. 
then thank her say miss henschil look straight at him. yes i would. she d like it. 
when nurse blaber come back after the part at templecombe her nose and her eyelid be red but for all that her face reflect a great light even while she sniff over the cloister and the hearth. 
miss henschil deep in a house furnisher s catalogue do not speak for twenty minute. then she say between add total of best guest and servant sheet but why should our time have be the same nursey. 
because a child be bear somewhere every second of the clock nurse blaber answer. and besides that you probably set each other off by talk and think about it. you shouldn t you know. 
ay but you ve never be in hell say miss henschil. 
the telegram hand in at hereford at. and deliver to miss henschil on the beach of a certain village at. run thus. 
_absolutely confirm. she say she remember hear noise of accident in engine room return from india eighty five. 
he mean the year not the thermometer say nurse blaber throw pebble at the cold sea. 
_and two men scald thus explain my hoot. the idea of tell me that. _subsequently silly clergyman passenger run up behind her call for joke friend all be lose thus account very word. 
nurse blaber purr audibly. 
_she say only remember be upset minute or two. unspeakable relief. best love nursey who be jewel. get out of her what she would like best. oh i oughtn t to have read that say miss henschil. 
it doesn t matter. i don t want anything say nurse blaber and if i do i shouldn t get it. 
helen all alone. 
there be darkness under heaven for an hour s space darkness that we know be give u for special grace. sun and moon and star be hide god have leave his throne when helen come to me she do helen all alone. 
side by side. because our fate damn u ere our birth. we steal out of limbo gate look for the earth. hand in pull hand amid fear no dream have know helen run with me she do helen all alone. 
when the horror pass speech hunt u along each lay hold on each and each find the other strong. in the teeth of thing forbid and reason overthrow helen stand by me she do helen all alone. 
when at last we hear the fire dull and die away when at last our link desire drag u up to day when at last our soul be rid of what that night have show helen pass from me she do helen all alone. 
let her go and find a mate a i will find a bride know naught of limbo gate or who be pen inside. there be knowledge god forbid more than one should own. so helen go from me she do oh my soul be glad she do. helen all alone. 
the honour of war. 

a hood motor have follow mine from the guildford road up the drive to the infant s ancestral hall and have turn off to the stable. 
we re have a quiet even together. stalky s upstairs change. dinner s at. sharp because we re hungry. his room s next to yours say the infant nurse a cobwebbed bottle of burgundy. 
then i find lieutenant colonel a. l. corkran i. a. who borrow a collar stud and tell me about the east and his sikh regiment. 
and be your subaltern a good a ever. i ask. 
amazin simply amazin. all i ve get to do be to find em job. they keep touchin their cap to me and askin for more work. come at me with their tongue hangin out. i use to run the other way at their age. 
and when they err. say i. i suppose they do sometimes. 
then they run to me again to weep with remorse over their virgin peccadillo. i never cuddle my colonel when i be in trouble. lamb positive lamb. 
and what do you say to em. 
talk to em like a papa. tell em how i can t understand it an how shock i be and how grieve their parent ll be. and throw in a little about the army regulation and the ten commandment. make one feel rather a sweep when one think of what one use to do at their age. d you remember. 
we remember together till close on seven o clock. a we go out into the gallery that run round the big hall we saw the infant below talk to two deferential well set up lad whom i have know on and off in the holiday any time for the last ten year. one of them have a bruise cheek and the other a weep leave eye. 
yes that s the style say stalky below his breath. they re bring up on lemon squash and mobilisation text book. i say the girl we know must have be much good than they pretend they be. for i ll swear it isn t the father. 
but why on earth do you do it. the infant be shout. you know what it mean nowadays. 
well sir say bobby trivett the tall of the two wontner talk too much for one thing. he didn t join till he be twenty three and besides that he use to lecture on tactic in the ante room. he say clausewitz be the only tactician and he illustrate his theory with cigar end. he be that sort of chap sir. 
and he didn t much care whose cigar end they be say eames who be short and pink. 
and then he would talk about the varsity say bobby. he get a degree there. and he tell u we weren t intellectual. he tell the adjutant so sir. he be just that kind of chap sir if you understand. 
stalky and i back behind a tall japanese jar of chrysanthemum and listen more intently. 
be all the mess in it or only you two. the infant demand chew his moustache. 
the adjutant go to bed of course sir and the senior subaltern say he wasn t go to risk his commission they re awfully down on rag nowadays in the service but the rest of u er attend to him say bobby. 
much. the infant ask. the boy smile deprecatingly. 
not in the ante room sir say eames. then he call u silly child and go to bed and we sit up discussin and i suppose we get a bite above ourselves and we er. 
go to his quarter and draw him. the infant suggest. 
well we only ask him to get out of bed and we put his helmet and sword belt on for him and we sing him bit out of the blue fairy book the cram book on army organisation. oh yes and then we ask him to drink old clausewitz s health a a brother tactician in milk punch and worcester sauce and so on. we have to help him a little there. he bite. there wasn t much else that time. but you know the war office be severe on rag these day. bobby stop with a lopsided smile. 
and then eames go on then wontner say we d do several pound worth of damage to his furniture. 
oh say the infant he s that kind of man be he. doe he brush his teeth. 
oh yes he s quite clean all over. say trivett. but his father s a wealthy barrister. 
solicitor eames correct and so this mister wontner be out for our blood. he s go to make a first class row about it appeal to the war office court of inquiry spicy bit in the paper and song in the music hall. he tell u so. 
that s the sort of chap he be say trivett. and that mean old dhurrah bag our colonel ll be put on half pay same a that case in the scarifungers mess. and our adjutant ll have to exchange like it be with that fellow in the rd dragoon and there ll be misery all round. he mean make it too hot for u and his papa ll back him. 
yes that s all very fine say the infant. but i leave the service about the time you be bear bobby. what s it get to do with me. 
father tell me i be always to go to you when i be in trouble and you ve be awfully good to me since he. 
good stay to dinner. the infant mop his forehead. 
thank you very much but the fact be trivett halt. 
this afternoon about four to be exact eames break in. 
we go over to wontner s quarter to talk thing over. the row only happen last night and we find him write letter a hard a he could to his father get up his case for the war office you know. he read u some of em but i m not a good judge of style. we try to ride him off quietly apology and so forth but it be the milk punch and mayonnaise that defeat u. 
yes he wasn t take anything except pure revenge say eames. 
he say he d make an example of the regiment and he be particularly glad that he d land our colonel. he tell u so. old dhurrah bag don t sympathise with wontner s tactical lecture. he say wontner ought to learn manner first but we think trivett turn to eames who be le a son of the house than himself eames s father be still alive. 
then eames go on he become rather noisome and we think we might a well impound the correspondence he wrinkle his swell leave eye and after that we get him to take a seat in my car. 
he be in a sack you know trivett explain. he wouldn t go any other way. but we didn t hurt him. 
oh no. his head s stick out quite clear and eames rush the fence we ve put him in your garage er pendente lite. 
my garage. infant s voice nearly break with horror. 
well father always tell me if i be in trouble uncle george. 
bobby s sentence die away a the infant collapse on a divan and say no more than your commission. there be a long long silence. 
what price your latter day lime juice subaltern. i whisper to stalky behind my hand. his nostril expand and he drum on the edge of the japanese jar with his knuckle. 
confound your father bobby. the infant groan. raggin s a criminal offence these day. it isn t a if. 
come on say stalky. that be my old line battalion in egypt. they nearly sling old dhurrah bag and me out of the service in for rag. he descend the stair and the infant roll appeal eye at him. 
i hear what you youngster have confess he begin. and in his orderly room voice which be almost a musical a his sing one he tongue lash those lad in such sort a be a privilege and a revelation to listen to. till then they have know him almost a a relative we be all brevet deputy or act uncle to the infant s friend brood a sympathetic elder brother sound on finance. they have never meet colonel a. l. corkran in the chair of justice. and while he flay and rent and blister and wipe the floor with them and while they look for hide place and find none on that floor i remember. the up end of dolly macshane at dalhousie which come perilously near a court martial on second lieutenant corkran. the burn of captain parmilee s mosquito curtain on a hot indian dawn when the captain sleep in his garden and lieutenant corkran smoke ride by after a successful whist night at the club. the introduction of an ekka pony with ekka attach into a brother captain s tent on a frosty night in peshawur and the removal of tent pole cot and captain all wrap in chilly canvas. the bath that be give to elliot hacker on his own verandah his lady love saw it and break off the engagement which be what the mess intend she be an eurasian and the powder all over of elliot hacker with flour and turmeric from the bazaar. 
when he take breath i realise how only satan can rebuke sin. the good don t know enough. 
now say stalky get out. no not out of the house. go to your room. 
i ll send your dinner bobby say the infant. ipps. 
nothing have ever be know to astonish ipps the butler. he enter and withdraw with his charge. after all he have suffer from bobby since bobby s twelfth year. 
they ve do everything they could short of murder say the infant. you know what this ll mean for the regiment. it isn t a if we be deal with sahib nowadays. 
quite so. stalky turn on me. go and release the bagman he say. 
tisn t my garage i plead. i m company. besides he ll probably slay me. he s be in the sack for hour. 
look here stalky thunder the year have fall from u both be your be i commandin or be you. we ve get to pull this thing off somehow or other. cut over to the garage make much of him and bring him over. he s din with u. be quick you dither as. 
i be quick enough. but a i run through the shrubbery i wonder how one extricate the subaltern of the present day from a sack without hurt his feeling. anciently one slit the end open take off his boot first and then flee. 
imagine a sumptuously equip garage half fill by the infant s cobalt blue grey cord silk limousine and a mud splash cheap hood four seater. in the back seat of this last conceive a fiery chestnut head emerge from a long oat sack. an implacable white face with blaze eye and jaw that work ceaselessly at the loop of the string that be draw round it neck. the effect under the electric be that of a demon caterpillar wrathfully spin it own cocoon. 
good even. i say genially. let me help you out of that. the head glare. we ve get em i go on. they come to quite the wrong shop for this sort of game quite the wrong shop. 
game. say the head. we ll see about that. let me out. 
it be not a promise voice for one so young and a usual i have no knife. 
you ve chew the string so i can t find the knot i say a i work with tremble finger at the cater pillar s throat. something untie itself and mr. wontner wriggle out collarless tieless his coat split half down his back his waistcoat unbutton his watch chain snap his trouser ruck well above the knee. 
where he say grimly a he pull them down be master trivett and master eames. 
both arrest of course i reply. sir george i give the infant s full title a a baronet be a justice of the peace. he d be very please if you din with u. there s a room ready for you. i pick up the sack. 
d you know say mr. wontner through his teeth but the car s bonnet be between u that this look to me like i win t say conspiracy yet_ but uncommonly like a confederacy. 
when injure soul begin to distinguish and qualify danger be over. so i grow bold. 
sorry you take it that way i say. you come here in trouble. 
my good fool he interrupt with a half hysterical snort let me assure you that the trouble will recoil on the other men. 
a you please i go on. anyhow the chap who get you into trouble be arrest and the magistrate who arrest em ask you to dinner. shall i tell him you re walk back to aldershot. 
he pick some fluff off his waistcoat. 
i m in no position to dictate term yet he say. that will come late. i must probe into this a little further. in the meantime i accept your invitation without prejudice if you understand what that mean. 
i understand and begin to be happy again. sub alterns without prejudice be quite new to me. all right i reply. if you ll go up to the house i ll turn out the light. 
he walk off stiffly while i search the sack and the car for the impound correspondence that bobby have talk of. i find nothing except a the police report say the trace of a struggle. he have kick half the varnish off the back of the front seat and have bite the leather pad where he could reach it. evidently a purposeful and hard mouth young gentleman. 
well do. say stalky at the door. so he didn t slay you. stop laugh. he s talk to the infant now about deposition. look here you re near his size. cut up to your room and give ipps your dinner thing and a clean shirt for him. 
but i haven t get another suit i say. 
you. i m not think of you. we ve get to conciliate him. he s in filthy rag and a filthy temper and he win t feel decent till he s dress. you re the sacrifice. be quick. and clean sock remember. 
once more i trot up to my room change into unseasonable unbrushed grey tweed put stud into a clean shirt dig out fresh sock hand the whole garniture over to ipps and return to the hall just in time to hear stalky say i m a stockbroker but i have the honour to hold his majesty s commission in a territorial battalion. then i felt a though i might be begin to be repay. 
i have a very high opinion of the territorial myself say mr. wontner above a glass of sherry. infant never let u put bitter into anything above twenty year old. but if you have any experience of the service you would find that the average army man. 
here the infant suggest change and ipps before whom no human passion can assert itself lead mr. wontner away. 
why the devil do you tell him i be on the bench. say infant wrathfully to me. you know i ain t now. why didn t he stay in his father s office. he s a rag blight. 
not a bite of it say stalky cheerfully. he s a little shake and excite. probably beetle annoy him in the garage but we must overlook that. we ve contain him so far and i m go to nibble round his outpost at dinner. all you ve get to do infant be to remember you re a gentleman in your own house. don t hop. you ll find it pretty difficult before dinner s over. i don t want to hear anything at all from you beetle. 
but i m just begin to like him i say. do let me play. 
not till i ask you. you ll overdo it. poor old dhurrah bag. a scandal ud break him up. 
but a long a a regiment ha no say a to who join it it s bind to rag infant begin. why why they varnish me when i join. he squirm at the think of it. 
don t be owl. we ain t discuss principle. we ve get to save the court of inquiry if we can say stalky. 
five minute late at. to be precise we four sit down to such a dinner a i hold only the infant s cook can produce with wine worthy of pontifical banquet. a man in the extremity of rage and injure dignity be precisely like a typhoid patient. he ask no question accept what be put before him and babble in one key very often of trifle. but food and drink be the very best of drug. i think it be heidsieck dry monopole stalky a usual stick to burgundy that begin to unlock mr. wontner s heart behind my shirt front. me he snub throughout after the oxford manner because i have see him in the sack and he do not intend me to presume. but to stalky and the infant while i admire the set of my dinner jacket across his shoulder he make his plan of revenge very clear indeed. he have even sketch out some of the paragraph that be to appear in the paper and if stalky have allow me to speak i would have tell him that they be rather neatly phrase. 
you ought to be able to get whackin damage out of em into the bargain say stalky after mr. wontner have outline his position legally. 
my de ah sir mr. wontner apply himself to his glass it isn t a matter that gentleman usually discus but i assure you we wontners he wave a well keep hand do not stand in any need of filthy lucre. in the next three minute we learn exactly what his father be worth which a he point out be a trifle no man of the world dwell on. stalky envy aloud and i deliver my first kick at the infant s ankle. thence we drift to education and the average army man and the desolate vacuity i remember these word of army society notably among it womenkind. it appear there be some sort of narrow convention in the army against mention a woman s name at mess. we be much surprise at this stalky would not let me express my surprise but we take it from mr. wontner who say we might that it be so. next he touch on colonel of the old school and their cognisance of tactic. not that he himself pretend to any skill in tactic but after three year at the varsity none of u have have a varsity education a man insensibly contract the habit of clear think. at least he could automatically co ordinate his idea and the jealousy of these muddle head colonel be inconceivable. we would understand that it be his duty to force on the retirement of his colonel who have be in the conspiracy against him. to make his adjutant resign or exchange. and to give the half dozen childish subaltern who have vex his dignity a chance to retrieve themselves in other corp west african one he hop. for himself after the case be decide he propose to go on live in the regiment just to prove for he bore no malice that time have change nosque mutamur in illis if we know what that mean. infant have curl his leg out of reach so i be quite free to return thank yet once more to allah for the diversity of his creature in his adorable world. 
and so by way of an eighty year old liqueur brandy to tactic and the great general clausewitz unknown to the average army man. here the infant at a whisper from ipps whose face have darken like a mulberry while he wait excuse himself and go away but stalky colonel of territorial want some tip on tactic. he get them unbrokenly for ten minute wontner and clausewitz mix but wontner in a film of priceless cognac distinctly on top. when the infant come back he renew his clear speak demand that infant should take his deposition. i suppose this to be a family trait of the wontners whom i have be visualise for some time past even to the third generation. 
but hang it all they re both asleep. say infant scowl at me. ipps let em have the port. 
asleep. say stalky rise at once. i don t see that make any difference. a a matter of form you d good identify them. i ll show you the way. 
we follow up the white stone side staircase that lead to the bachelor wing. mr. wontner seem surprise that the boy be not in the coal cellar. 
oh a chap s assume to be innocent until he s prove guilty say stalky mount step by step. how do they get you into the sack mr. wontner. 
jump on me from behind two to one say mr. wontner briefly. i think i hand each of them something first but they rope my arm and leg. 
and do they photograph you in the sack. 
good heaven no. mr. wontner shudder. 
that s lucky. awful thing to live down a photograph isn t it. say stalky to me a we reach the land. i m think of the newspaper of course. 
oh but you can easily have sketch in the illustrate paper from account supply by eye witness i say. 
mr. wontner turn him round. it be the first time he have honour me by his notice since our talk in the garage. 
ah say he do you pretend to any special knowledge in these matter. 
i m a journalist by profession i answer simply but nobly. a soon a you re at liberty i d like to have your account of the affair. 
now i think he would have love me for this but he only reply in an uncomfortable uncoming on voice oh you would would you. 
not if it s any trouble of course i say. i can always get their version from the defendant. do either of em draw or sketch at all mr. wontner. or perhaps your father might. 
then he say quite hotly i wish you to understand very clearly my good man that a gentleman s name can t be drag through the gutter to bolster up the circulation of your wretched sheet whatever it may be. 
it be i name a journal of enormous sale which specialise in scholastic military and other scandal. i don t know yet what it can t do mr. wontner. 
i didn t know that i be deal with a reporter say mr. wontner. 
we be all halt outside a shut door. ipps have follow u. 
but surely you want it in the paper don t you. i urge. with a scandal like this one couldn t in justice to the democracy be exclusive. we d syndicate it here and in the unite state. i help you out of the sack if you remember. 
i wish to goodness you d stop talk. he snap and sit down on a chair. stalky s hand on my shoulder quietly signal me out of action but i felt that my fire have not be misdirect. 
i ll answer for him say stalky to wontner in an undertone that drop to a whisper. i catch not without my leave dependent on me for market tip and other gratify tribute to my integrity. 
still mr. wontner sit in his chair and still we wait on him. the infant s face show worry and heavy grief. stalky s a bright and bird like interest. mine be hide behind his shoulder but on the face of ipps be write emotion that no butler should cherish towards any guest. contempt and wrath be the least of them. and mr. wontner be look full at ipps a ipps be look at him. mr. wontner s father i understand keep a butler and two footman. 
d you suppose they re sham in order to get off. he say at last. ipps shake his head and noiselessly throw the door open. the boy have finish their dinner and be fast asleep one on a sofa one in a long chair their face fall back to the line of their childhood. they have have a wildish night a hard day that end with a tell off from an artist and the assurance they have wreck their prospect for life. what else should youth do then but eat and drink port and remember their sorrow no more. 
mr. wontner look at them severely ipps within easy reach his hand quite ready. childish say mr. wontner at last. childish but necessary. er have you such a thing a a rope on the premise and a sack two sack and two rope. i m afraid i can t resist the temptation. that man understand doesn t he that this be a private matter. 
that man who be me be off to the basement like one of infant s own fallow deer. the stable give me what i want and come back with it through a dark passage i run squarely into ipps. go on. he grunt. the minute he lay hand on master bobby master bobby s save. but that person ought to be tell how near he come to be assault. it be touch and go with me all the time from the soup down i assure you. 
i arrive breathless with the sack and the rope. they be two to one with me say mr. wontner a he take them. if they wake. 
we ll stand by stalky reply. two to one be quite fair. 
but the boy hardly grunt a mr. wontner rope first one and then the other. even when they be slide into the sack they only mumble with roll head through sticky lip and snore on. 
port. say mr. wontner virtuously. 
nervous exhaustion. they aren t much more than kid after all. what s next. say stalky. 
i want to take em away with me please. 
stalky look at him with respect. 
i ll have my car round in five minute say the infant. ipps ll help carry em downstairs and he shake mr. wontner by the hand. 
we be all perfectly serious till the two bundle be dump on a divan in the hall and the boy wake and begin to realise what have happen. 
yah. say mr. wontner with the simplicity of twelve year old. who s score now. and he sit upon them. the tension break in a storm of laughter lead i think by ipps. 
asinine absolutely asinine. say mr. wontner with fold arm from his lively chair. but he drink in the flattery and the fellowship of it all with quite a brainless grin a we roll and stamp round him and wipe the tear from our cheek. 
hang it. say bobby trivett. we re defeat. 
by tactic too say eames. i didn t think you know em clausewitz. it s a fair score. what be you go to do with u. 
take you back to mess say mr. wontner. 
not like this. 
oh no. bad much bad. i haven t begin with you yet. and you think you d score. yah. 
they have score beyond their wild dream. the man in whose hand it lay to shame them their colonel their adjutant their regiment and their service have cast away all shadow of his legal right for the sake of a common or bear garden rag such a rag a if it come to the ear of the authority would cost him his commission. they be save and their saviour be their equal and their brother. so they chaff and revile him a such till he again squash the breath out of them and we others laugh loud than they. 
fall in. say stalky when the limousine come round. this be the score of the century. i wouldn t miss it for a brigade. we shan t be long infant. 
i hurry into a coat. 
be there any necessity for that reporter chap to come too. say mr. wontner in an unguarded whisper. he isn t dress for one thing. 
bobby and eames wriggle round to look at the reporter begin a joyous bellow and suddenly stop. 
what s the matter. say wontner with suspicion. 
nothing say bobby. i die happy clausewitz. take me up tenderly. 
we pack into the car bear our sheaf with u and for half an hour a the cool night air fan his thoughtful brow mr. wontner be quite abreast of himself. though he say nothing unworthy he triumph and trumpet a little loudly over the sack. i sit between them on the back seat and applaud him servilely till he remind me that what i have see and what he have say be not for publication. i hint while the boy plunge with joy inside their trapping that this might be a matter for arrangement. then a sovereign shan t part u say mr. wontner cheerily and both boy fell into lively hysteric. i don t see where the joke come in for you say mr. wontner. i think it be my little jokelet to night. 
no clausewitz gasp bobby. some be but not all. i ll be good now. i ll give you my parole till we get to mess. i wouldn t be out of this for a five. 
nor me say eames and he give his parole to attempt no escape or evasion. 
now i suppose say mr. wontner largely to stalky a we near the suburb of ash you have a good deal of practical joke on the stock exchange haven t you. 
and when be you on the stock exchange uncle leonard. pip bobby while eames lay his sob head on my shoulder. 
i m sorry say stalky but the fact be i command a regiment myself when i m at home. your colonel know me i think. he give his name. mr. wontner seem to have hear of it. we have to pick eames off the floor where he have cast himself from excess of delight. 
oh heaven. say mr. wontner after a long pause. what have i do. what haven t i do. we felt the temperature in the car rise a he blush. 
you didn t talk tactic clausewitz. say bobby. oh say it wasn t tactic darling. 
it be say wontner. 
eames be all among our foot again cry if you don t let me get my arm up i ll be sick. let s hear what you say. tell u. 
but mr. wontner turn to stalky. it s no good my beg your pardon sir i suppose he say. 
don t you notice em say stalky. it be a fair rag all round and anyhow you two youngster haven t any right to talk tactic. you ve be roll up horse foot and gun. 
i ll make a treaty. if you ll let u go and change presently say bobby i ll promise we win t tell about you clausewitz. you talk tactic to uncle len. old dhurrah bag will like that. he don t love you claus. 
if i ve make one as of myself i shall take extra care to make ass of you. say wontner. i want to stop please at the next milliner s shop on the right. it ought to be close here. 
he evidently know the country even in the dark for the car stop at a brilliantly light millinery establishment where it be saturday even a young lady be clear up the counter. i follow him a a good reporter should. 
have you get he begin. ah those ll do. he point to two hairy plush beehive bonnet one magenta the other a conscientious electric blue. how much please. i ll take them both and that bunch of peacock feather and that red feather thing. it be a brilliant crimson dye pigeon s wing. 
now i want some yard of muslin with a nice fierce pattern please. he get it yellow with black tulip and return heavily lade. 
sorry to have keep you say he. now we ll go to my quarter to change and beautify. 
we come to them opposite a dun waste of parade grind that might have be mian mir and bugle a they blow and drum a they roll set heart string echo. 
we hoist the boy out and arrange them on chair while wontner change into uniform but stop when he saw me take off my jacket. 
what on earth s that for. say he. 
because you ve be wear my even thing i say. i want to get into em again if you don t mind. 
then you aren t a reporter. he say. 
no i say but that shan t part u. 
oh hurry. cry eames in desperate convulsion. we can t stand this much long. tisn t fair on the young. 
i ll attend to you in good time say wontner. and when he have make careful toilet he unwrap the bonnet put the peacock s feather into the magenta one pin the crimson wing on the blue one set them daintily on the boy head and bid them admire the effect in his shave glass while he rip the muslin into length bind it first and drape it artistically afterwards a little below their knee. he finish off with a gigantic sash bow obi fashion. hobble skirt he explain to stalky who nod approval. 
next he split open the bottom of each sack so that they could walk but with very short step. i ought to have get you white satin slipper he murmur and i m sorry there s no rouge. 
don t worry on our account old man you re do u proud say bobby from under his hat. this beat milk punch and mayonnaise. 
oh why didn t we think of these thing when we have him at our mercy. eames wail. never mind we ll try it on the next chap. you ve a mind claus. 
now we ll call on em at mess say wontner a they mince towards the door. 
i think i ll call on your colonel say stalky. he oughtn t to miss this. your first attempt. i assure you i couldn t have do it good myself. thank you. he hold out his hand. 
thank you_ sir. say wontner shake it. i m more grateful to you than i can say and and i d like you to believe some time that i m not quite a big a. 
not in the least stalky interrupt. if i be write a confidential report on you i should put you down a rather adequate. look after your geisha or they ll fall. 
we watch the three cross the road and disappear into the shadow of the mess verandah. there be a noise. then telephone bell ring a sergeant and a mess waiter charge out and the noise grow till at last the mess be a little noisy. 
we come back ten minute late with colonel dalziell who have be take his sorrow to bed with him. the ante room be quite full and visitor be still arrive but it be possible to hear oneself speak occasionally. trivett and eames in sack and sash sit side by side on a table their hat at a ravish angle coquettishly twiddle their tie foot. in the interval of sing put me among the girl they sip whisky and soda hold to their lip by i regret to say a major. public opinion seem to be against allow them to change their costume till they should have dance in it. wontner lie more or le gracefully at the level of the chandelier in the arm of six subaltern be lecture on tactic and implore to be let down which he be with a run when they realise that the colonel be there. then he pick himself up from the sofa and say. i want to apologise sir to you and the mess for have be such an as ever since i join. 
this be when the noise begin. 
see the night promise to be wet stalky and i go home again in the infant s car. it be some time since we have taste the hot air that lie between the cornice and the ceiling of crowd room. 
after half an hour s silence stalky say to me. i don t know what you ve be do but i believe i ve be weepin. would you put that down to burgundy or senile decay. 
the child. 
these be our child who die for our land. they be dear in our sight. we have only the memory leave of their home treasure saying and laughter. the price of our loss shall be pay to our hand not another s hereafter. neither the alien nor priest shall decide on it. that be our right. but who shall return u the child. 
at the hour the barbarian choose to disclose his pretence and rag against man they engage on the breast that they bar for u the first felon stroke of the sword he have long time prepare for u their body be all our defence while we work our defence. 
they buy u anew with their blood forbear to blame u those hour which we have not make good when the judgment o ercame u. they believe u and perish for it. our statecraft our learn. 
deliver them bind to the pit and alive to the burn whither they mirthfully hasten a jostle for honour. not since her birth ha our earth see such worth loose upon her. 
nor be their agony brief or once only impose on them. the wound the war spend the sick receive no exemption. be cure they return and endure and achieve our redemption hopeless themselves of relief till death marvel close on them. 
that flesh we have nurse from the first in all cleanness be give to corruption unveil and assail by the malice of heaven by the heart shake jest of decay where it loll on the wire to be blanch or gay paint by fume to be cindered by fire to be senselessly toss and retossed in stale mutilation from crater to crater. for this we shall take expiation. but who shall return u our child. 
the dog hervey. 
april. 
my friend attley who would give away his own head if you tell him you have lose yours be give away a six month old litter of bettina s pup and half a dozen woman be in rapture at the show on mittleham lawn. 
we pick by lot. mr. godfrey draw first choice. her marry daughter second. i be third but waive my right because i be already own by malachi bettina s full brother whom i have bring over in the car to visit his nephew and niece and he would have slay them all if i have take home one. milly mr. godfrey s young daughter pounce on my rejection with squeal of delight and attley turn to a dark sallow skin slack mouth girl who have come over for tennis and invite her to pick. she put on a pince nez that make her look like a camel kneel clumsily for she be long from the hip to the knee breathe hard and consider the last couple. 
i think i d like that sandy pied one she say. 
oh not him miss sichliffe. attley cry. he be overlay or have sunstroke or something. they call him the looney in the kennel. besides he squint. 
i think that s rather fetch she answer. neither malachi nor i have ever see a squint dog before. 
that s chorea st. vitus s dance mr. godfrey put in. he ought to have be drown. 
but i like his cast of countenance the girl persist. 
he doesn t look a good life i say but perhaps he can be patch up. miss sichliffe turn crimson. i saw mr. godfrey exchange a glance with her marry daughter and know i have say something which would have to be live down. 
yes miss sichliffe go on her voice shake he isn t a good life but perhaps i can patch him up. come here sir. the misshapen beast lurch toward her squint down his own nose till he fell over his own toe. then luckily bettina run across the lawn and remind malachi of their puppyhood. all that family be a queer a dick s hatband and fight like man and wife. i have to separate them and mr. godfrey help me till they retire under the rhododendron and have it out in silence. 
d you know what that girl s father be. mr. godfrey ask. 
no i reply. i loathe her for her own sake. she breathe through her mouth. 
he be a retire doctor she explain. he use to pick up stormy young men in the repentant stage take them home and patch them up till they be sound enough to be insure. then he insure them heavily and let them out into the world again with an appetite. of course no one know him while he be alive but he leave pot of money to his daughter. 
strictly legitimate highly respectable i say. but what a life for the daughter. 
mustn t it have be. now d you realise what you say just now. 
perfectly. and now you ve make me quite happy shall we go back to the house. 
when we reach it they be all inside sit in committee on name. 
what shall you call yours. i hear milly ask miss sichliffe. 
harvey she reply harvey s sauce you know. he s go to be quite saucy when i ve she saw mr. godfrey and me come through the french window when he s strong. 
attley the well mean man to make me feel at ease ask what i think of the name. 
oh splendid i say at random. h with an a a with an r r with a. 
but that s little bingo some one say and they all laugh. 
miss sichliffe her hand join across her long knee drawl you ought always to verify your quotation. 
it be not a kindly thrust but something in the word quotation set the automatic side of my brain at work on some shadow of a word or phrase that keep itself out of memory s reach a a cat sit just beyond a dog s jump. when i be go home miss sichliffe come up to me in the twilight the pup on a leash swing her big shoe at the end of her tennis racket. 
sorry she say in her thick schoolboy like voice. i m sorry for what i say to you about verify quotation. i didn t know you well enough and anyhow i oughtn t to have. 
but you be quite right about little bingo i answer. the spell ought to have remind me. 
yes of course. it s the spell she say and slouch off with the pup slide after her. once again my brain begin to worry after something that would have mean something if it have be properly spell. i confide my trouble to malachi on the way home but bettina have bite him in four place and he be busy. 
week late attley come over to see me and before his car stop malachi let me know that bettina be sit beside the chauffeur. he greet her by the scruff of the neck a she hop down. and i greet mr. godfrey attley and a big basket. 
you ve get to help me say attley tiredly. we take the basket into the garden and there stagger out the angular shadow of a sandy pied break haired terrier with one imbecile and one delirious ear and two most hideous squint. bettina and malachi already at grip on the lawn saw him let go and flee in opposite direction. 
why have you bring that fetid hound here. i demand. 
harvey. for you to take care of say attley. he s have distemper but i_ m go abroad. 
take him with you. i win t have him. he s mentally afflict. 
look here attley almost shout do i strike you a a fool. 
always say i. 
well then if you say so and ella say so that prof i ought to go abroad. 
will s wrong quite wrong mr. godfrey interrupt. but you must take the pup. 
my dear boy my dear boy don t you ever give anything to a woman attley snort. 
bite by bite i get the story out of them in the quiet garden. never a sign from bettina and malachi. while harvey star me out of countenance first with one cuttlefish eye and then with the other. 
it appear that a month after miss sichliffe take him the dog harvey develop distemper. miss sichliffe have nurse him herself for some time. then she carry him in her arm the two mile to mittleham and weep actually weep at attley s foot say that harvey be all she have or expect to have in this world and attley must cure him. attley be by wealth position and temperament guardian to all lame dog have put everything aside for this unsavoury job and he assert miss sichliffe have virtually live with him ever since. 
she go home at night of course he explode but the rest of the time she simply infest the premise. goodness know i m not particular but it be a scandal. even the servant. three and four time a day and note in between to know how the beast be. hang it all don t laugh. and want to send me flower and goldfish. do i look a if i want goldfish. can t you two stop for a minute. mr. godfrey and i be cling to each other for support. and it isn t a if i be be so allure a personality be it. 
attley command more trust goodwill and affection than most men for he be that rare angel an absolutely unselfish bachelor content to be run by contend syndicate of zealous friend. his situation seem desperate and i tell him so. 
instant flight be your only remedy be my verdict. i ll take care of both your car while you re away and you can send me over all the greenhouse fruit. 
but why should i be chase out of my house by a she dromedary. he wail. 
oh stop. stop. mr. godfrey sob. you re both wrong. i admit you re right but i know you re wrong. 
three and four time a day say attley with an awful countenance. i m not a vain man but look here ella i m not sensitive i hope but if you persist in make a joke of it. 
oh be quiet. she almost shriek. d you imagine for one instant that your friend would ever let mittleham pas out of their hand. i quite agree it be unseemly for a grow girl to come to mittleham at all hour of the day and night. 
i tell you she go home o night attley growl. 
specially if she go home o night. oh but think of the life she must have lead will. 
i m not interfere with it. only she must leave me alone. 
she may want to patch you up and insure you i suggest. 
d you know what you be. mr. godfrey turn on me with the smile i have fear for the last quarter of a century. you re the nice kind wise doggy friend. you don t know how wise and nice you be suppose to be. will ha send harvey to you to complete the poor angel s convalescence. you know all about dog or will wouldn t have do it. he s write her that. you re too far off for her to make daily call on you. p r aps she ll drop in two or three time a week and write on other day. but it doesn t matter what she doe because you don t own mittleham don t you see. 
i tell her i saw most clearly. 
oh you ll get over that in a few day mr. godfrey counter. you re the sport responsible doggy friend who. 
he use to look at me like that at first say attley with a visible shudder but he give it up after a bite. it s only because you re new to him. 
but confound you. he s a ghoul i begin. 
and when he get quite well you ll send him back to her direct with your love and she ll give you some pretty four tail goldfish say mr. godfrey rise. that s all settle. car please. we re go to brighton to lunch together. 
they run before i could get into my stride so i tell the dog harvey what i think of them and his mistress. he never shift his position but star at me an intense lopsided stare eye after eye. malachi come along when he have see his sister off and from a distance counsel me to drown the brute and consort with gentleman again. but the dog harvey never even cock his cockable ear. 
and so it continue a long a he be with me. where i sit he sit and star. where i walk he walk beside head stiffly slew over one shoulder in single barrel contemplation of me. he never give tongue never close in for a caress seldom let me stir a step alone. and to my amazement malachi who suffer no strange to live within our gate saw this gaunt grow green eye devil wipe him out of my service and company without a whimper. indeed one would have say the situation interest him for he would meet u return from grim walk together and look alternately at harvey and at me with the same quiver interest that he show at the mouth of a rat hole. outside these inspection malachi withdraw himself a only a dog or a woman can. 
miss sichliffe come over after a few day. luckily i be out. with some elaborate story of pay call in the neighbourhood. she send me a note of thank next day. i be read it when harvey and malachi enter and dispose themselves a usual harvey close up to stare at me malachi half under the sofa watch u both. out of curiosity i return harvey s stare then pull his lopsided head on to my knee and take his eye for several minute. now in malachi s eye i can see at any hour all that there be of the normal decent dog fleck here and there with that strain half soul which man s love and association have add to his nature. but with harvey the eye be perplex a a torture man s. only by look far into it deep could one make out the spirit of the proper animal becloud and cower beneath some unfair burden. 
leggatt my chauffeur come in for order. 
how d you think harvey s come on. i say a i rub the brute s gulp neck. the vet have warn me of the possibility of spinal trouble follow distemper. 
he ain t my fancy be the reply. but i don t question his coming and going so long a i aven t to sit alone in a room with him. 
why. he s a meek a moses i say. 
he fair give me the creep. p r aps he ll go out in fit. 
but harvey a i write his mistress from time to time thrive and when he grow good would play by himself grisly game of spy walk up hail and chase another dog. from these he would break off of a sudden and return to his normal stiff gait with the air of one who have forget some matter of life and death which could be reach only by star at me. i leave him one even posture with the unseen on the lawn and go inside to finish some letter for the post. i must have be at work nearly an hour for i be go to turn on the light when i felt there be somebody in the room whom the short hair at the back of my neck warn me i be not in the least anxious to face. there be a mirror on the wall. a i lift my eye to it i saw the dog harvey reflect near the shadow by the close door. he have rear himself full length on his hind leg his head a little one side to clear a sofa between u and he be look at me. the face with it knit brow and draw lip be the face of a dog but the look for the fraction of time that i catch it be human wholly and horribly human. when the blood in my body go forward again he have drop to the floor and be merely study me in his usual one eye fashion. next day i return him to miss sichliffe. i would not have keep him another day for the wealth of asia or even ella godfrey s approval. 
miss sichliffe s house i discover to be a mid victorian mansion of peculiar villainy even for it period surround by garden of conflict colour all dazzle with glass and fresh paint on ironwork. strip blind for it be a blaze autumn morning cover most of the window and a voice sing to the piano an almost forget song of jean ingelow s. 
methought that the star be blink bright and the old brig s sail unfurl. 
down come the loud pedal and the unrestrained cry swell out across a bed of tritoma consume in their own fire. 
when i say i will sail to my love this night on the other side of the world. 
i have no music but the voice draw. i wait till the end. 
oh maid most dear i be not here i have no place apart no dwell more on sea or shore but only in thy heart. 
it seem to me a poor life that have no more than that to do at eleven o clock of a tuesday forenoon. then miss sichliffe suddenly lumber through a french window in clumsy haste her brow contract against the light. 
well. she say deliver the word like a spear thrust with the full weight of a body behind it. 
i ve bring harvey back at last i reply. here he be. 
but it be at me she look not at the dog who have cast himself at her foot look a though she would have fish my soul out of my breast on the instant. 
wha what do you think of him. what do you make of him. she pant. i be too take aback for the moment to reply. her voice break a she stoop to the dog at her knee. o harvey harvey. you utterly worthless old devil. she cry and the dog cringe and abase himself in servility that one could scarcely bear to look upon. i make to go. 
oh but please you mustn t. she tug at the car s side. wouldn t you like some flower or some orchid. we ve really splendid orchid and she clasp her hand there be japanese goldfish real japanese goldfish with four tail. if you don t care for em perhaps your friend or somebody oh please. 
harvey have recover himself and i realise that this woman beyond the decency be fawn on me a the dog have fawn on her. 
certainly i say ashamed to meet her eye. i m lunch at mittleham but. 
there s plenty of time she entreat. what do you think of harvey. 
he s a queer beast i say get out. he doe nothing but stare at me. 
doe he stare at you all the time he s with you. 
always. he s do it now. look. 
we have halt. harvey have sit down and be star from one to the other with a weave motion of the head. 
he ll do that all day i say. what be it harvey. 
yes what be it harvey. she echo. the dog s throat twitch his body stiffen and shake a though he be go to have a fit. then he come back with a visible wrench to his unwinking watch. 
always so. she whisper. 
always i reply and tell her something of his life with me. she nod once or twice and in the end lead me into the house. 
there be unaging pitch pine door of gothic design in it. there be inlay marble mantel piece and cut steel fender. there be stupendous wall paper and octagonal medallioned wedgwood what nots and black and gild austrian image hold candelabra with every other refinement that art have achieve or wealth have buy between and. and everything reek of varnish. 
now. she open a baize door and point down a long corridor flank with more gothic door. this be where we use to to patch em up. you ve hear of u. mr. godfrey tell you in the garden the day i get harvey give me. i she draw in her breath i live here by myself and i have a very large income. come back harvey. 
he have tiptoe down the corridor a rigid a ever and be sit outside one of the shut door. look here. she say and plant herself squarely in front of me. i tell you this because you you ve patch up harvey too. now i want you to remember that my name be moira. mother call me marjorie because it s more refine. but my real name be moira and i be in my thirty fourth year. 
very good i say. i ll remember all that. 
thank you. then with a sudden swoop into the humility of an abash boy sorry if i haven t say the proper thing. you see there s harvey look at u again. oh i want to say if ever you want anything in the way of orchid or goldfish or or anything else that would be useful to you you ve only to come to me for it. under the will i m perfectly independent and we re a long live family bad luck. she look at me and her face work like glass behind drive flame. i may reasonably expect to live another fifty year she say. 
thank you miss sichliffe i reply. if i want anything you may be sure i ll come to you for it. she nod. now i must get over to mittleham i say. 
mr. attley will ask you all about this. for the first time she laugh aloud. i m afraid i frighten him nearly out of the county. i didn t think of course. but i dare say he know by this time he be wrong. say good bye to harvey. 
good bye old man i say. give me a farewell stare so we shall know each other when we meet again. 
the dog look up then move slowly toward me and stand head bow to the floor shake in every muscle a i pat him. and when i turn i saw him crawl back to her foot. 
that be not a good preparation for the rampant boy and girl dominate lunch at mittleham which a usual i find in possession of everybody except the owner. 
but what do the dromedary say when you bring her beast back. attley demand. 
the usual polite thing i reply. i m pose a the nice doggy friend nowadays. 
i don t envy you. she s never darken my door thank goodness since i leave harvey at your place. i suppose she ll run about the county now swear you cure him. that s a woman s idea of gratitude. attley seem rather hurt and mr. godfrey laugh. 
that prof you be right about miss sichliffe ella i say. she have no design on anybody. 
i m always right in these matter. but didn t she even offer you a goldfish. 
not a thing say i. you know what an old maid s like where her precious dog s concern. and though i have try vainly to lie to ella godfrey for many year i believe that in this case i succeed. 
when i turn into our drive that even leggatt observe half aloud. 
i m glad zvengali s back where he belong. it s time our mike have a look in. 
sure enough there be malachi back again in spirit a well a flesh but still with that odd air of expectation he have pick up from harvey. 
* * * * *. 
it be in january that attley write me that mr. godfrey winter in madeira with milly her unmarried daughter have be attack with something like enteric. that the hotel anxious for it good name have thrust them both out into a cottage annexe. that he be off with a nurse and that i be not to leave england till i hear from him again. in a week he wire that milly be down a well and that i must bring out two more nurse with suitable delicacy. 
within seventeen hour i have get them all aboard the cape boat and have see the woman safely collapse into sea sickness. the next few week be for me a for the invalid a low delirium cloud with fantastic memory of portuguese official try to tax calf foot jelly. voluble doctor insist that true typhoid be unknown in the island. nurse who have to be exercise take out of themselves and return on the tick of change of guard. night slide down glassy cobble street smell of sewage and flower between wall whose every stone and patch attley and i know. vigil in stucco verandah watch the curve and descent of great star or draw augury from the break of dawn. insane interlude of gamble at the local casino where we win heap of unconsoling silver. blast of steamer arrive and depart in the road. help offer by total stranger grab at or thrust aside. the long nightmare crumble back into sanity one forenoon under a vine cover trellis where attley sit hug a nurse while the others dance a noiseless neat foot breakdown never learn at the middlesex hospital. at last a the tension come out all over u in ache and tingle that we put down to the country wine a vision of mr. godfrey her grey hair turn to spin glass but her eye triumphant over the shadow of retreat death beneath them with milly enormously grow and clutch life back to her young breast both stretch out on cane chair clamour for food. 
in this ungirt hour there import himself into our life a youngish look middle age man of the name of shend with a blur face and deprecate eye. he say he have gamble with me at the casino which be no recommendation and i remember that he twice give me a basket of champagne and liqueur brandy for the invalid which a sailor in a red tasselled cap carry up to the cottage for me at a. m. he turn out to be the son of some merchant prince in the oil and colour line and the owner of a four hundred ton steam yacht into which at his gentle insistence we late shift our camp staff and equipage milly weep with delight to escape from the horrible cottage. there we lay off funchal for week while shend do miracle of luxury and attendance through deputy and never once ask how his guest be enjoy themselves. indeed for several day at a time we would see nothing of him. he be he say subject to malaria. give a they do with both hand i know that attley and mr. godfrey could take nobly. but i never meet a man who so nobly give and so nobly receive thank a shend do. 
tell u why you have be so unbelievably kind to u gipsy mr. godfrey say to him one day on deck. 
he look up from a diagram of some thames mouth shoal which he be explain to me and answer with his gentle smile. 
i will. it s because it make me happy it make me more than happy to be with you. it make me comfortable. you know how selfish men be. if a man feel comfortable all over with certain people he ll bore them to death just like a dog. you always make me feel a if pleasant thing be go to happen to me. 
haven t any ever happen before. milly ask. 
this be the most pleasant thing that ha happen to me in ever so many year he reply. i feel like the man in the bible it s good for me to be here. generally i don t feel that it s good for me to be anywhere in particular. then a one beg a favour. you ll let me come home with you in the same boat i mean. i d take you back in this thing of mine and that would save you pack your trunk but she s too lively for spring work across the bay. 
we book our berth and when the time come he waft u and ours aboard the southampton mail boat with the pomp of plenipotentiary and the precision of the navy. then he dismiss his yacht and become an inconspicuous passenger in a cabin opposite to mine on the port side. 
we run at once into early british spring weather follow by sou west gale. mr. godfrey milly and the nurse disappear. attley stand it out visibly yellow till the next meal and follow suit and shend and i have the little table all to ourselves. i find him even more attractive when the woman be away. the natural sweetness of the man his voice and bear all fascinate me and his knowledge of practical seamanship. he hold an extra master s certificate. be a real joy. we sit long in the empty saloon and long in the smoke room make dash downstairs over slippery deck at the eleventh hour. 
it be on friday night just a i be go to bed that he come into my cabin after clean his teeth which he do half a dozen time a day. 
i say he begin hurriedly do you mind if i come in here for a little. i m a bite edgy. i must have show surprise. i m ever so much good about liquor than i use to be but it s the whisky in the suitcase that throw me. for god s sake old man don t go back on me to night. look at my hand. 
they be fairly jump at the wrist. he sit down on a trunk that have slide out with the roll. we have reduce speed and be surge in confuse sea that pound on the black port glass. the night promise to be a pleasant one. 
you understand of course don t you. he chatter. 
oh yes i say cheerily. but how about. 
no no. on no account the doctor. tell a doctor tell the whole ship. besides i ve only get a touch of em. you d never have guess it would you. the tooth wash doe the trick. i ll give you the prescription. 
i ll send a note to the doctor for a prescription shall i. i suggest. 
right. i put myself unreservedly in your hand. fact be i always do. i say to myself sure i don t bore you. the minute i saw you i say thou art the man. he repeat the phrase a he pick at his knee. all the same you can take it from me that the ewe lamb business be a rotten bad one. i don t care how unfaithful the shepherd may be. drink or sober tisn t cricket. 
a surge of the trunk throw him across the cabin a the steward answer my bell. i write my requisition to the doctor while shend be struggle to his foot. 
what s wrong. he begin. oh i know. we re slow for sounding off ushant. it s about time too. you d good ship the dead light when you come back matchem. it ll save you wake u late. this sea s go to get up when the tide turn. that ll show you he say a the man leave that i be to be trust. you you ll stop me if i say anything i shouldn t win t you. 
talk away i reply if it make you feel good. 
that s it. you ve hit it exactly. you always make me feel good. i can rely on you. it s awkward sounding but you ll see me through it. we ll defeat him yet. i may be an utterly worthless devil but i m not a brawler. i tell him so at breakfast. i say doctor i detest brawl but if ever you allow that girl to be insult again a clements insult her i will break your neck with my own hand. you think i be right. 
absolutely i agree. 
then we needn t discus the matter any further. that man be a murderer in intention outside the law you understand a it be then. they ve change it since but he never deceive me. i tell him so. i say to him at the time i don t know what price you re go to put on my head but if ever you allow clements to insult her again you ll never live to claim it. 
and what do he do. i ask to carry on the conversation for matchem enter with the bromide. 
oh crumple up at once. lead still go matchem. 
i aven t eard say that faithful servant of the union castle company. 
quite right. never alarm the passenger. ship the dead light will you. matchem ship it for we be roll very heavily. there be trampling and gull like cry from on deck. shend look at me with a mariner s eye. 
that s nothing he say protectingly. 
oh it s all right for you i say jump at the idea. i haven t an extra master s certificate. i m only a passenger. i confess it funk me. 
instantly his whole bear change to answer the appeal. 
my dear fellow it s a simple a house. we re hunt for sixty five fathom water. anything short of sixty with a sou west wind mean but i ll get my channel pilot out of my cabin and give you the general idea. i m only too grateful to do anything to put your mind at ease. 
and so perhaps for another hour he decline the drink channel pilot in hand he navigate u round ushant and at my request up channel to southampton light by light with explanation and reminiscence. i profess myself soothe at last and suggest bed. 
in a second say he. now you wouldn t think would you he glance off the book toward my wildly sway dress gown on the door that i ve be see thing for the last half hour. fact be i m just on the edge of em skate on thin ice round the corner nor east a near a nothing where that dog s look at me. 
what s the dog like. i ask. 
ah that be comfort of you. most men walk through em to show me they aren t real. a if i didn t know. but you re different. anybody could see that with half an eye. he stiffen and point. damn it all. the dog see it too with half an why he know you. know you perfectly. d you know him. 
how can i tell if he isn t real. i insist. 
but you can. you re all right. i saw that from the first. don t go back on me now or i shall go to piece like the drummond castle. i beg your pardon old man. but you see you do know the dog. i ll prove it. what s that dog do. come on. you know. a tremor shake him and he put his hand on my knee and whisper with great mean. i ll letter or halve it with you. there. you begin. 
s say i to humour him for a dog would most likely be stand or sit or may be scratch or sniffle or star. 
q he go on and i could feel the heat of his shake hand. 
u say i. there be no other letter possible. but i be shake too. 
i. 
n. 
t i n g he run out. there. that prof it. i know you know him. you don t know what a relief that be. between ourselves old man he he s be turn up lately a a damn sight more often than i care for. and a squint dog a dog that squint. i mean that s a bite too much. eh. what. he gulp and half rise and i think that the full tide of delirium would be on him in another sentence. 
not a bite of it i say a a last chance with my hand over the bellpush. why you ve just prove that i know him. so there be two of u in the game anyhow. 
by jove. that be an idea. of course there be. i know you d see me through. we ll defeat them yet. hi pup. he s go. absolutely disappear. he sigh with relief and i catch the lucky moment. 
good business. i expect he only come to have a look at me i say. now get this drink down and turn in to the low bunk. 
he obey protest that he could not inconvenience me and in the midst of apology sink into a dead sleep. i expect a wakeful night have a certain amount to think over. but no sooner have i scramble into the top bunk than sleep come on me like a wave from the other side of the world. 
in the morning there be apology which we get over at breakfast before our party be about. 
i suppose after this well i don t blame you. i m rather a lonely chap though. his eye lift dog like across the table. 
shend i reply i m not run a sunday school. you re come home with me in my car a soon a we land. 
that be kind of you kind than you think. 
that s because you re a little jumpy still. now i don t want to mix up in your private affair. 
but i d like you to he interrupt. 
then would you mind tell me the christian name of a girl who be insult by a man call clements. 
moira he whisper. and just then mr. godfrey and milly come to table with their shore go hat on. 
we do not tie up till noon but the faithful leggatt have intrigue his way down to the dock edge and beside him sit malachi wear his collar of gold or leggatt make it look so a eloquent a demosthenes. shend flinch a little when he saw him. we pack mr. godfrey and milly into attley s car they be go with him to mittleham of course and draw clear across the railway line to find england all light and perfume for spring. shend sigh with happiness. 
d you know he say if if you d chuck me i should have go down to my cabin after breakfast and cut my throat. and now it s like a dream a good dream you know. 
we lunch with the other three at romsey. then i sit in front for a little while to talk to my malachi. when i look back shend be solidly asleep and stay so for the next two hour while leggatt chase attley s fat daimler along the green speckle hedge. he wake up when we say good bye at mittleham with promise to meet again very soon. 
and i hope say mr. godfrey that everything pleasant will happen to you. 
heap and heap all at once cry long weak milly wave her wet handkerchief. 
i ve just get to look in at a house near here for a minute to inquire about a dog i say and then we will go home. 
i use to know this part of the world he reply and say no more till leggatt shoot past the lodge at the sichliffes s gate. then i hear him gasp. 
miss sichliffe in a green waterproof an orange jersey and a pinkish leather hat be work on a bulb border. she straighten herself a the car stop and breathe hard. shend get out and walk towards her. they shake hand turn round together and go into the house. then the dog harvey prance out corkily from under the lee of a bench. malachi with one joyous swoop fell on him a an enemy and an equal. harvey for his part free from all burden whatsoever except the obvious duty of a man dog on his own grind meet malachi without reserve or remorse and with six month additional growth to come and go on. 
don t check em. cry leggatt dance round the flurry. they ve both be save up for each other all this time. it ll do em world of good. 
leggatt i say will you take mr. shend s bag and suitcase up to the house and put them down just inside the door. then we will go on. 
so i enjoy the finish alone. it be a dead heat and they lick each other s jaw in amity till harvey one implore eye on me leap into the front seat and malachi back his appeal. it be theft but i take him and we talk all the way home of r rat and r rabbit and bone and bath and the other basic fact of life. that even after dinner they sleep before the fire with their warm chin across the hollow of my ankle to each chin an ankle till i kick them upstairs to bed. 
* * * * *. 
i be not at mittleham when she come over to announce her engagement but i hear of it when mr. godfrey and attley come forty mile an hour over to me and mr. godfrey call me name of the bad for suppression of information. 
a long a it wasn t me i don t care say attley. 
i believe you know it all along mr. godfrey repeat. else what make you drive that man literally into her arm. 
to ask after the dog harvey i reply. 
then what s the beast do here. attley demand for malachi and the dog harvey be deep in a council of the family with bettina who be be out argue. 
oh harvey seem to think himself de trop where he be i say. and she hasn t send after him. you d good save bettina before they kill her. 
there s be enough lie about that dog say mr. godfrey to me. if he wasn t bear in lie he be baptize in em. d you know why she call him harvey. it only occur to me in those dreadful day when i be ill and one can t keep from think and think everything. d you know your boswell. what do johnson say about hervey with an e. 
oh that s it be it. i cry incautiously. that be why i ought to have verify my quotation. the spell defeat me. wait a moment and it will come back. johnson say. he be a vicious man i begin. 
but very kind to me mr. godfrey prompt. then both together if you call a dog hervey i shall love him. 
so you be mix up in it. at any rate you have your suspicion from the first. tell me she say. 
ella i say i don t know anything rational or reasonable about any of it. it be all all woman work and it scar me horribly. 
why. she ask. 
that be six year ago. i have write this tale to let her know wherever she may be. 
the comforter. 
until thy foot have tread the road advise not wayside folk nor till thy back ha bear the load break in upon the break. 
chase not with undesired largesse of sympathy the heart which know her own bitterness presume to dwell apart. 
employ not that glad hand to raise the god forget head to heaven and all the neighbour gaze cover thy mouth instead. 
the quiver chin the bite lip the cold and sweat brow late may yearn for fellowship not now you as not now. 
time not thy ne er so timely speech life not thy view thereon shall furnish or deny to each his consolation. 
or if impel to interfere exhort uplift advise lend not a base betray ear to all the victim s cry. 
only the lord can understand when those first pang begin how much be reflex action and how much be really sin. 
e en from good word thyself refrain and tremblingly admit there be no anodyne for pain except the shock of it. 
so when thine own dark hour shall fall unchallenged canst thou say. i never worry you at all for god s sake go away. 
the village that vote the earth be flat. 

our drive till then have be quite a success. the other men in the car be my friend woodhouse young ollyett a distant connection of his and pallant the m. p. woodhouse s business be the treatment and cure of sick journal. he know by instinct the precise moment in a newspaper s life when the impetus of past good management be exhaust and it fetch up on the dead centre between slow and expensive collapse and the new start which can be give by gold injection and genius. he be wisely ignorant of journalism. but when he stoop on a carcase there be sure to be meat. he have that week add a half dead halfpenny even paper to his collection which consist of a prosperous london daily one provincial ditto and a limp body weekly of commercial leaning. he have also that very hour plant me with a large block of the even paper s common share and be explain the whole art of editorship to ollyett a young man three year from oxford with coir mat colour hair and a face harshly model by harsh experience who i understand be assist in the new venture. pallant the long wrinkle m. p. whose voice be more like a crane s than a peacock s take no share but give u all advice. 
you ll find it rather a knacker s yard woodhouse be say. yes i know they call me the knacker. but it will pay inside a year. all my paper do. i ve only one motto. back your luck and back your staff. it ll come out all right. 
then the car stop and a policeman ask our name and address for exceed the speed limit. we point out that the road run absolutely straight for half a mile ahead without even a side lane. that s just what we depend on say the policeman unpleasantly. 
the usual swindle say woodhouse under his breath. what s the name of this place. 
huckley say the policeman. h u c k l e y and write something in his note book at which young ollyett protest. a large red man on a grey horse who have be watch u from the other side of the hedge shout an order we could not catch. the policeman lay his hand on the rim of the right drive door. woodhouse carry his spare tyre aft. and it close on the button of the electric horn. the grey horse at once bolt and we could hear the rider swear all across the landscape. 
damn it man you ve get your silly fist on it. take it off. woodhouse shout. 
ho. say the constable look carefully at his finger a though we have trap them. that win t do you any good either and he write once more in his note book before he allow u to go. 
this be woodhouse s first brush with motor law and since i expect no ill consequence to myself i point out that it be very serious. i take the same view myself when in due time i find that i too be summons on charge range from the use of obscene language to endanger traffic. 
judgment be do in a little pale yellow market town with a small jubilee clock tower and a large corn exchange. woodhouse drive u there in his car. pallant who have not be include in the summon come with u a moral support. while we wait outside the fat man on the grey horse ride up and enter into loud talk with his brother magistrate. he say to one of them for i take the trouble to note it down it fall away from my lodge gate dead straight three quarter of a mile. i d defy any one to resist it. we rook seventy pound out of em last month. no car can resist the temptation. you ought to have one your side the county mike. they simply can t resist it. 
whew. say woodhouse. we re in for trouble. don t you say a word or ollyett either. i ll pay the fine and we ll get it over a soon a possible. where s pallant. 
at the back of the court somewhere say ollyett. i saw him slip in just now. 
the fat man then take his seat on the bench of which he be chairman and i gather from a bystander that his name be sir thomas ingell bart. m. p. of ingell park huckley. he begin with an allocution pitch in a tone that would have justify revolt throughout empire. evidence when the crowd little court do not drown it with applause be give in the pause of the address. they be all very proud of their sir thomas and look from him to u wonder why we do not applaud too. 
take it time from the chairman the bench rollick with u for seventeen minute. sir thomas explain that he be sick and tire of procession of cad of our type who would be good employ break stone on the road than in frighten horse worth more than themselves or their ancestor. this be after it have be prove that woodhouse s man have turn on the horn purposely to annoy sir thomas who happen to be rid by. there be other remark too primitive enough but it be the unspeakable brutality of the tone even more than the quality of the justice or the laughter of the audience that sting our soul out of all reason. when we be dismiss to the tune of twenty three pound twelve shilling and sixpence we wait for pallant to join u while we listen to the next case one of drive without a licence. ollyett with an eye to his even paper have already take very full note of our own but we do not wish to seem prejudice. 
it s all right say the reporter of the local paper soothingly. we never report sir thomas in extenso. only the fine and charge. 
oh thank you ollyett reply and i hear him ask who every one in court might be. the local reporter be very communicative. 
the new victim a large flaxen haired man in somewhat strike clothe to which sir thomas now thoroughly warm draw public attention say that he have leave his licence at home. sir thomas ask him if he expect the police to go to his home address at jerusalem to find it for him. and the court roar. nor do sir thomas approve of the man s name but insist on call him mr. masquerader and every time he do so all his people shout. evidently this be their establish auto da fé. 
he didn t summon me because i m in the house i suppose. i think i shall have to ask a question say pallant reappear at the close of the case. 
i think i shall have to give it a little publicity too say woodhouse. we can t have this kind of thing go on you know. his face be set and quite white. pallant s on the other hand be black and i know that my very stomach have turn with rage. ollyett be dum. 
well let s have lunch woodhouse say at last. then we can get away before the show break up. 
we draw ollyett from the arm of the local reporter cross the market square to the red lion and find sir thomas s mr. masquerader just sit down to beer beef and pickle. 
ah. say he in a large voice. companion in misfortune. win t you gentleman join me. 
delight say woodhouse. what do you get. 
i haven t decide. it might make a good turn but the public aren t educate up to it yet. it s beyond em. if it wasn t that red dub on the bench would be worth fifty a week. 
where. say woodhouse. the man look at him with unaffected surprise. 
at any one of my place he reply. but perhaps you live here. 
good heaven. cry young ollyett suddenly. you be masquerier then. i think you be. 
bat masquerier. he let the word fall with the weight of an international ultimatum. yes that s all i be. but you have the advantage of me gentleman. 
for the moment while we be introduce ourselves i be puzzle. then i recall prismatic music hall poster of enormous acreage that have be the unnoticed background of my visit to london for year past. poster of men and woman singer jongleur impersonator and audacity of every drape and undrape brand all move on and off in london and the province by bat masquerier with the long wedge tail flourish follow the final r. 
i know you at once say pallant the train m. p. and i promptly back the lie. woodhouse mumble excuse. bat masquerier be not move for or against u any more than the frontage of one of his own palace. 
i always tell my people there s a limit to the size of the letter he say. overdo that and the ret na doesn t take it in. advertisin be the most delicate of all the science. 
there s one man in the world who be go to get a little of it if i live for the next twenty four hour say woodhouse and explain how this would come about. 
masquerier star at him lengthily with gunmetal blue eye. 
you mean it. he drawl. the voice be a magnetic a the look. 
i do say ollyett. that business of the horn alone ought to have him off the bench in three month. masquerier look at him even long than he have look at woodhouse. 
he tell me_ he say suddenly that my home address be jerusalem. you hear that. 
but it be the tone the tone ollyett cry. 
you notice that too do you. say masquerier. that s the artistic temperament. you can do a lot with it. and i m bat masquerier he go on. he drop his chin in his fist and scowl straight in front of him. i make the silhouette i make the trefoil and the jocunda. i make dal benzaguen. here ollyett sit straight up for in common with the youth of that year he worship miss vidal benzaguen of the trefoil immensely and unreservedly. _is that a dress gown or an ulster you re suppose to be wear. you hear that. and i suppose you hadn t time to brush your hair either. you hear that. now you hear me. his voice fill the coffee room then drop to a whisper a dreadful a a surgeon s before an operation. he speak for several minute. pallant mutter hear. hear. i saw ollyett s eye flash it be to ollyett that masquerier address himself chiefly and woodhouse lean forward with join hand. 
be you with me. he go on gather u all up in one sweep of the arm. when i begin a thing i see it through gentleman. what bat can t break break him. but i haven t strike that thing yet. this be no one turn turn it down show. this be business to the dead finish. be you with me gentleman. good. now we ll pool our asset. one london morning and one provincial daily didn t you say. one weekly commercial ditto and one m. p. 
not much use i m afraid pallant smirk. 
but privilege. but privilege he return. and we have also my little team london blackburn liverpool leeds i ll tell you about manchester late and me. bat masquerier. he breathe the name reverently into his tankard. gentleman when our combination ha finish with sir thomas ingell bart. m. p. and everything else that be his sodom and gomorrah will be a winsome bite of merrie england beside em. i must go back to town now but i trust you gentleman will give me the pleasure of your company at dinner to night at the chop suey the red amber room and we ll block out the scenario. he lay his hand on young ollyett s shoulder and add. it s your brain i want. then he leave in a good deal of astrachan collar and nickel plat limousine and the place felt le crowd. 
we order our car a few minute late. a woodhouse ollyett and i be get in sir thomas ingell bart. m. p. come out of the hall of justice across the square and mount his horse. i have sometimes think that if he have go in silence he might even then have be save but a he settle himself in the saddle he catch sight of u and must need shout. not off yet. you d good get away and you d good be careful. at that moment pallant who have be buy picture postcard come out of the inn take sir thomas s eye and very leisurely enter the car. it seem to me that for one instant there be a shade of uneasiness on the baronet s grey whisker face. 
i hope say woodhouse after several mile i hope he s a widower. 
yes say pallant. for his poor dear wife s sake i hope that very much indeed. i suppose he didn t see me in court. oh here s the parish history of huckley write by the rector and here s your share of the picture postcard. be we all din with this mr. masquerier to night. 
yes. say we all. 
* * * * *. 
if woodhouse know nothing of journalism young ollyett who have graduate in a hard school know a good deal. our halfpenny even paper which we will call the bun to distinguish her from her prosperous morning sister the cake_ be not only diseased but corrupt. we find this out when a man bring u the prospectus of a new oil field and demand sub leader on it prosperity. ollyett talk pure brasenose to him for three minute. otherwise he speak and write trade english a toothsome amalgam of americanism and epigram. but though the slang change the game never alter and ollyett and i and in the end some others enjoy it immensely. it be week ere we could see the wood for the tree but so soon a the staff realise that they have proprietor who back them right or wrong and specially when they be wrong. which be the sole secret of journalism. and that their fate do not hang on any pass owner s pass mood they do miracle. 
but we do not neglect huckley. a ollyett say our first care be to create an arrest atmosphere round it. he use to visit the village of week end on a motor bicycle with a side car. for which reason i leave the actual place alone and deal with it in the abstract. yet it be i who draw first blood. two inhabitant of huckley write to contradict a small quite solid paragraph in the bun that a hoopoe have be see at huckley and have of course be shoot by the local sportsman. there be some heat in their letter both of which we publish. our version of how the hoopoe get his crest from king solomon be i grieve to say so inaccurate that the rector himself no sportsman a he point out but a lover of accuracy write to u to correct it. we give his letter good space and thank him. 
this priest be go to be useful say ollyett. he ha the impartial mind. i shall vitalise him. 
forthwith he create m. l. sigden a recluse of refine taste who in the bun demand to know whether this huckley of the hoopoe be the hugly of his boyhood and whether by any chance the fell change of name have be work by collusion between a local magnate and the railway in the mistake interest of spurious refinement. for i know it and love it with the maiden of my day eheu ab angulo. a hugly write m. l. sigden from oxf. 
though other paper scoff the bun be gravely sympathetic. several people write to deny that huckley have be change at birth. only the rector no philosopher a he point out but a lover of accuracy have his doubt which he lay publicly before mr. m. l. sigden who suggest through the bun_ that the little place might have begin life in anglo saxon day a hogslea or among the norman a argilé on account of it much clay. the rector have his own idea too. he say it be mostly gravel. and m. l. sigden have a fund of reminiscence. oddly enough which be seldom the case with free read matter our subscriber rather relish the correspondence and contemporary quote freely. 
the secret of power say ollyett be not the big stick. it s the liftable stick. this mean the arrest quotation of six or seven line. do you see the spec. have a middle on rural tenacity last week. that be all huckley. i m do a mobiquity on huckley next week. 
our mobiquities be friday even account of easy motor bike cum side car trip round london illustrate. we could never get that machine to work properly. by smudgy map. ollyett write the stuff with a fervour and a delicacy which i always ascribe to the side car. his account of epping forest for instance be simply young love with it soul at it lip. but his huckley mobiquity would have sicken a soap boiler. it chemically combine loathsome familiarity leer suggestion slimy piety and rancid social service in one fume compost that fairly lift me off my foot. 
yes say he after compliment. it s the most vital arrest and dynamic bite of tump i ve do up to date. non nobis gloria. i meet sir thomas ingell in his own park. he talk to me again. he inspire most of it. 
which. the glutinous native drawl or the neglect adenoid of the village child. i demand. 
oh no. that s only to bring in the panel doctor. it s the last flight we i m proud of. 
this deal with the crepuscular penumbra spread her dim limb over the boskage. with jolly rabbit. with a herd of gravid poll angus. and with the arrest gipsy like face of their swart scholarly owner a well know at the royal agricultural show a that of our late king emperor. 
swart be good and so s gravid say i but the panel doctor will be annoy about the adenoid. 
not half a much a sir thomas will about his face say ollyett. and if you only know what i ve leave out. 
he be right. the panel doctor spend his week end. this be the advantage of friday article. in overwhelm u with a professional counterblast of no interest whatever to our subscriber. we tell him so and he then and there batter his way with it into the lancet where they be keen on gland and forget u altogether. but sir thomas ingell be of stern stuff. he must have spend a happy week end too. the letter which we receive from him on monday prove him to be a kinless loon of upright life for no woman however remotely interest in a man would have let it pas the home wastepaper basket. he object to our reference to his own herd to his own labour in his own village which he say be a model village and to our infernal insolence. but he object most to our invoice of his feature. we write him courtously to ask whether the letter be mean for publication. he remember i presume the duke of wellington write back publish and be damn. 
oh. this be too easy ollyett say a he begin head the letter. 
stop a minute i say. the game be get a little beyond u. to night s the bat dinner. i may have forget to tell you that our dinner with bat masquerier in the red amber room of the chop suey have come to be a weekly affair. hold it over till they ve all see it. 
perhaps you re right he say. you might waste it. 
at dinner then sir thomas s letter be hand round. bat seem to be think of other matter but pallant be very interest. 
i ve get an idea he say presently. could you put something into the bun to morrow about foot and mouth disease in that fellow s herd. 
oh plague if you like ollyett reply. they re only five measly shorthorn. i saw one lie down in the park. she ll serve a a sub stratum of fact. 
then do that. and hold the letter over meanwhile. i think i come in here say pallant. 
why. say i. 
because there s something come up in the house about foot and mouth and because he write me a letter after that little affair when he fin you. take ten day to think it over. here you be say pallant. house of common paper you see. 
we read. 
dear pallant although in the past our path have not lie much together i be sure you will agree with me that on the floor of the house all member be on a foot of equality. i make bold therefore to approach you in a matter which i think capable of a very different interpretation from that which perhaps be put upon it by your friend. will you let them know that that be the case and that i be in no way sway by animus in the exercise of my magisterial duty which a you a a brother magistrate can imagine be frequently very distasteful to yours very sincerely. 
t. ingell. 
p. s. i have see to it that the motor vigilance to which your friend take exception ha be considerably relax in my district. 
what do you answer. say ollyett when all our opinion have be express. 
i tell him i couldn t do anything in the matter. and i couldn t then. but you ll remember to put in that foot and mouth paragraph. i want something to work upon. 
it seem to me the bun ha do all the work up to date i suggest. when doe the cake come in. 
the cake_ say woodhouse and i remember afterwards that he speak like a cabinet minister on the eve of a budget reserve to itself the full right to deal with situation a they arise. 
ye eh. bat masquerier shake himself out of his thought. situation a they arise. i ain t idle either. but there s no use fish till the swim s bait. you he turn to ollyett manufacture very good grind bait. i always tell my people what the deuce be that. 
there be a burst of song from another private din room across the land. it ee some lady from the trefoil the waiter begin. 
oh i know that. what be they sing though. 
he rise and go out to be greet by shout of applause from that merry company. then there be silence such a one hear in the form room after a master s entry. then a voice that we love begin again. here we go gather nut in may nut in may nut in may. 
it s only dal and some nut he explain when he return. she say she s come in to dessert. he sit down hum the old tune to himself and till miss vidal benzaguen enter he hold u speechless with tale of the artistic temperament. 
we obey pallant to the extent of slip into the bun a wary paragraph about cow lie down and drip at the mouth which might be read either a an unkind libel or in the hand of a capable lawyer a a piece of faithful nature study. 
and besides say ollyett we allude to gravid poll angus. i be advise that no action can lie in respect of virgin shorthorn. pallant want u to come to the house to night. he s get u place for the stranger gallery. i m begin to like pallant. 
masquerier seem to like you i say. 
yes but i m afraid of him ollyett answer with perfect sincerity. i be. he s the absolutely amoral soul. i ve never meet one yet. 
we go to the house together. it happen to be an irish afternoon and a soon a i have get the cry and the face a little sort out i gather there be grievance in the air but how many of them be beyond me. 
it s all right say ollyett of the train ear. they ve shut their port against oh yes export of irish cattle. foot and mouth disease at ballyhellion. i see pallant s idea. 
the house be certainly all mouth for the moment but a i could feel quite in earnest. a minister with a piece of typewrite paper seem to be fend off volley of insult. he remind me somehow of a nervous huntsman break up a fox in the face of rabid hound. 
it s question time. they re ask question say ollyett. look. pallant s up. 
there be no mistake it. his voice which his enemy say be his one parliamentary asset silence the hubbub a toothache silence mere sing in the ear. he say. 
arise out of that may i ask if any special consideration ha recently be show in regard to any suspect outbreak of this disease on this side of the channel. 
he raise his hand. it hold a noon edition of the bun. we have think it best to drop the paragraph out of the late one. he would have continue but something in a grey frock coat roar and bound on a bench opposite and wave another bun. it be sir thomas ingell. 
a the owner of the herd so dastardly implicate his voice be drown in shout of order. the irish lead. 
what s wrong. i ask ollyett. he s get his hat on his head hasn t he. 
yes but his wrath should have be put a a question. 
arise out of that mr. speaker sirrr. sir thomas bellow through a lull be you aware that that all this be a conspiracy part of a dastardly conspiracy to make huckley ridiculous to make u ridiculous. part of a deep lay plot to make me ridiculous mr. speaker sir. 
the man s face show almost black against his white whisker and he strike out swimmingly with his arm. his vehemence puzzle and hold the house for an instant and the speaker take advantage of it to lift his pack from ireland to a new scent. he address sir thomas ingell in tone of measure rebuke mean also i imagine for the whole house which lower it hackle at the word. then pallant shock and pain. i can only express my profound surprise that in response to my simple question the honourable member should have think fit to indulge in a personal attack. if i have in any way offend. 
again the speaker intervene for it appear that he regulate these matter. 
he too express surprise and sir thomas sit back in a hush of reprobation that seem to have the chill of the century behind it. the empire s work be resume. 
beautiful. say i and i felt hot and cold up my back. 
and now we ll publish his letter say ollyett. 
we do on the heel of his carefully report outburst. we make no comment. with that rare instinct for grasp the heart of a situation which be the mark of the anglo saxon all our contemporary and i should say two third of our correspondent demand how such a person could be make more ridiculous than he have already prove himself to be. but beyond spell his name injle we alone refuse to hit a man when he be down. 
there s no need say ollyett. the whole press be on the buckle from end to end. 
even woodhouse be a little astonish at the ease with which it have come about and say a much. 
rot. say ollyett. we haven t really begin. huckley isn t news yet. 
what do you mean. say woodhouse who have grow to have great respect for his young but by no mean distant connection. 
mean. by the grace of god master ridley i mean to have it so that when huckley turn over in it sleep reuters and the press association jump out of bed to cable. then he go off at score about certain restoration in huckley church which he say and he seem to spend his every week end there have be perpetrate by the rector s predecessor who have abolish a leper window or a squinch hole. whatever these may be. to institute a lavatory in the vestry. it do not strike me a stuff for which reuters or the press association would lose much sleep and i leave him declaim to woodhouse about a fourteenth century font which he say he have unearth in the sexton s tool shed. 
my method be more on the line of peaceful penetration. an odd copy in the bun s rag and bone library of hone s every day book have reveal to me the existence of a village dance found like all village dance on druidical mystery connect with the solar solstice. which be always unchallengeable. and mid summer morning which be dewy and refresh to the london eye. for this i take no credit hone be a mine any one can work but that i rechristened that dance after i have revise it the gubby be my title to immortal fame. it be still to be witness i write in all it poignant purity at huckley that last home of significant mediæval survival. and i fell so in love with my creation that i keep it back for day enamel and burnish. 
you s good put it in say ollyett at last. it s time we assert ourselves again. the other fellow be begin to poach. you saw that thing in the pinnacle about sir thomas s model village. he must have get one of their chap down to do it. 
nothing like the wound of a friend i say. that account of the non alcoholic pub alone be. 
i like the bite best about the white tile laundry and the fall virgin who wash sir thomas s dress shirt. our side couldn t come within a mile of that you know. we haven t the proper flair for sexual slobber. 
that s what i m always say i retort. leave em alone. the other fellow be do our work for u now. besides i want to touch up my gubby dance a little more. 
no. you ll spoil it. let s shove it in to day. for one thing it s literature. i don t go in for compliment a you know but etc. etc. 
i have a healthy suspicion of young ollyett in every aspect but though i know that i should have to pay for it i fell to his flattery and my priceless article on the gubby dance appear. next saturday he ask me to bring out the bun in his absence which i naturally assume would be connect with the little maroon side car. i be wrong. 
on the follow monday i glance at the cake at breakfast time to make sure a usual of her inferiority to my beloved but unremunerative bun. i open on a head. the village that vote the earth be flat. i read. i read that the geoplanarian society a society devote to the proposition that the earth be flat have hold it annual banquet and exercise at huckley on saturday when after convince address amid scene of the great enthusiasm huckley village have decide by an unanimous vote of that the earth be flat. i do not remember that i breathe again till i have finish the two column of description that follow. only one man could have write them. they be flawless crisp nervous austere yet human poignant vital arrest most distinctly arrest dynamic enough to shift a city and quotable by whole stick at a time. and there be a leader a grave and poise leader which tear me in two with mirth until i remember that i have be leave out infamously and unjustifiably drop. i go to ollyett s room. he be breakfast and to do him justice look conscience stricken. 
it wasn t my fault he begin. it be bat masquerier. i swear i would have ask you to come if. 
never mind that i say. it s the best bite of work you ve ever do or will do. do any of it happen. 
happen. heaven. d you think even i could have invent it. 
be it exclusive to the cake. i cry. 
it cost bat masquerier two thousand ollyett reply. d you think he d let any one else in on that. but i give you my sacred word i know nothing about it till he ask me to come down and cover it. he have huckley post in three colour the geoplanarians annual banquet and exercise. yes he invent geoplanarians. he want huckley to think it mean aeroplane. yes i know that there be a real society that think the world s flat they ought to be grateful for the lift but bat make his own. he do. he create the whole show i tell you. he sweep out half his hall for the job. think of that on a saturday. they we go down in motor char à bancs three of em one pink one primrose and one forget me not blue twenty people in each one and the earth be flat on each side and across the back. i go with teddy rickets and lafone from the trefoil and both the silhouette sister and wait a minute. the crossleigh trio. you know the every day drama trio at the jocunda ada crossleigh bunt crossleigh and little victorine. them. and there be hoke ramsden the lightning change chap in morgiana and drexel and there be billy turpeen. yes you know him. the north london star. i m the referee that get himself dislike at blackheath. that chap. and there be mackaye that one eye scotch fellow that all glasgow be crazy about. talk of subordinate yourself for art s sake. mackaye be the earnest inquirer who get convert at the end of the meet. and there be quite a lot of girl i didn t know and oh yes there be dal. dal benzaguen herself. we sit together go and come. she s all the darling there ever be. she send you her love and she tell me to tell you that she win t forget about nellie farren. she say you ve give her an ideal to work for. she. oh she be the lady secretary to the geoplanarians of course. i forget who be in the other brake provincial star mostly but they play up gorgeously. the art of the music hall s change since your day. they didn t overdo it a bite. you see people who believe the earth be flat don t dress quite like other people. you may have notice that i hint at that in my account. it s a rather flat front ionic style neo victorian except for the bustle dal tell me but dal look heavenly in it. so do little victorine. and there be a girl in the blue brake she s a provincial but she s come to town this winter and she ll knock em winnie dean. remember that. she tell huckley how she have suffer for the cause a a govern in a rich family where they believe that the world be round and how she throw up her job sooner than teach immoral geography. that be at the overflow meet outside the baptist chapel. she knock em to sawdust. we must look out for winnie. but lafone. lafone be beyond everything. impact personality conviction the whole bag o trick. he sweat conviction. gad he convince me while he be speak. him. he be president of the geoplanarians of course. haven t you read my account. it be an infernally plausible theory. after all no one ha actually prove the earth be round have they. 
never mind the earth. what about huckley. 
oh huckley get tight. that s the bad of these model village if you let em smell fire water. there s one alcoholic pub in the place that sir thomas can t get rid of. bat make it his base. he send down the banquet in two motor lorry dinner for five hundred and drink for ten thousand. huckley vote all right. don t you make any mistake about that. no vote no dinner. a unanimous vote exactly a i ve say. at least the rector and the doctor be the only dissentients. we didn t count them. oh yes sir thomas be there. he come and grin at u through his park gate. he ll grin bad to day. there s an aniline dye that you rub through a stencil plate that eat about a foot into any stone and wear good to the last. bat have both the lodge gate stencil the earth be flat. and all the barn and wall they could get at. oh lord but huckley be drink. we have to fill em up to make em forgive u for not be aeroplane. unthankful yokel. d you realise that emperor couldn t have command the talent bat decant on em. why dal alone be. and by eight o clock not even a bite of paper leave. the whole show pack up and go and huckley hoo ray for the earth be flat. 
very good i begin. i be a you know a one third proprietor of the bun. 
i didn t forget that ollyett interrupt. that be uppermost in my mind all the time. i ve get a special account for the bun to day it s an idyll and just to show how i think of you i tell dal come home about your gubby dance and she tell winnie. winnie come back in our char à banc. after a bite we have to get out and dance it in a field. it s quite a dance the way we do it and lafone invent a sort of gorilla lockstep procession at the end. bat have send down a film chap on the chance of get something. he be the son of a clergyman a most dynamic personality. he say there isn t anything for the cinema in meeting qua meeting they lack action. film be a branch of art by themselves. but he go wild over the gubby. he say it be like peter s vision at joppa. he take about a million foot of it. then i photoed it exclusive for the bun. i ve send em in already only remember we must eliminate winnie s leave leg in the first figure. it s too arrest. and there you be. but i tell you i m afraid of bat. that man s the personal devil. he do it all. he didn t even come down himself. he say he d distract his people. 
why didn t he ask me to come. i persist. 
because he say you d distract me. he say he want my brain on ice. he get em. i believe it s the best thing i ve ever do. he reach for the cake and re read it luxuriously. yes out and away the best supremely quotable he conclude and after another survey by god what a genius i be yesterday. 
i would have be angry but i have not the time. that morning press agency grovel to me in the bun office for leave to use certain photo which they understand i control of a certain village dance. when i have send the fifth man away on the edge of tear my self respect come back a little. then there be the bun s poster to get out. art be elimination i fin it down to two word. one too many a it prove. the gubby. in red at which our manager protest. but by five o clock he tell me that i be the napoleon of fleet street. ollyett s account in the bun of the geoplanarians exercise and love feast lack the supreme shock of his version in the cake_ but it bruise more. while the photo of the gubby. which with winnie s leave leg be why i have set the doubtful press to work so early. be beyond praise and next day beyond price. but even then i do not understand. 
a week late i think it be bat masquerier telephone to me to come to the trefoil. 
it s your turn now he say. i m not ask ollyett. come to the stage box. 
i go and a bat s guest be receive a royalty be not. we sit well back and look out on the pack thousand. it be morgiana and drexel_ that fluid and electric review which bat though he give lafone the credit really create. 
ye e say bat dreamily after morgiana have give the nasty jar to the forty thief in their forty oil combination. a you say i ve get em and i can hold em. what a man doe doesn t matter much. and how he doe it don t matter either. it s the when the psychological moment. press can t make up for it. money can t. brain can t. a lot s luck but all the rest be genius. i m not speak about my people now. i m talk of myself. 
then dal she be the only one who dare knock at the door and stand behind u all alive and pant a morgiana. lafone be carry the police court scene and the house be rip up crossway with laughter. 
ah. tell a fellow now she ask me for the twentieth time do you love nellie farren when you be young. 
do we love her. i answer. if the earth and the sky and the sea there be three million of u dal and we worship her. 
how do she get it across. dal go on. 
she be nellie. the house use to coo over her when she come on. 
i ve have a good deal but i ve never be coo over yet say dal wistfully. 
it isn t the how it s the when bat repeat. ah. 
he lean forward a the house begin to rock and peal full throatedly. dal flee. a sinuous and silent procession be file into the police court to a scarcely audible accompaniment. it be dress but the world and all it picture palace know how it be dress. it dance and it dance and it dance the dance which bite all humanity in the leg for half a year and it wind up with the lockstep finale that mow the house down in swathe sob and ache. somebody in the gallery moan oh gord the gubby. and we hear the word run like a shudder for they have not a full breath leave among them. then dal come on an electric star in her dark hair the diamond flash in her three inch heel a vision that make no sign for thirty count second while the police court scene dissolve behind her into morgiana s manicure palace and they recover themselves. the star on her forehead go out and a soft light bath her a she take slowly slowly to the croon of adore string the eighteen pace forward. we saw her first a a queen alone. next a a queen for the first time conscious of her subject and at the end when her hand flutter a a woman delight awe not a little but transfigure and illuminate with sheer compel affection and goodwill. i catch the break mutter of welcome the coo which be more than tornado of applause. it die and rise and die again lovingly. 
she s get it across bat whisper. i ve never see her like this. i tell her to light up the star but i be wrong and she know it. she s an artist. 
dal you darling. some one speak not loudly but it carry through the house. 
thank you. dal answer and in that break tone one hear the last fetter rivet. good even boy. i ve just come from now where the dooce be it i have come from. she turn to the impassive file of the gubby dancer and go on. ah so good of you to remind me you dear bun face thing. i ve just come from the village the village that vote the earth be flat. 
she sweep into that song with the full orchestra. it devastate the habitable earth for the next six month. imagine then what it rage and pulse must have be at the incandescent hour of it birth. she only give the chorus once. at the end of the second verse be you with me boy. she cry and the house tear it clean away from her earth be flat earth be flat. flat a my hat flat than that drown all but the bassoon and double bass that mark the word. 
wonderful i say to bat. and it s only nut in may with variation. 
yes but i do the variation he reply. 
at the last verse she gesture to carlini the conductor who throw her up his baton. she catch it with a boy s ease. be you with me. she cry once more and the madden house behind her abolish all the instrument except the guttural belch of the double bass on earth the village that vote the earth be flat earth be flat. it be delirium. then she pick up the gubby dancer and lead them in a clatter improvise lockstep thrice round the stage till her last kick send her diamond hike shoe catherine wheel to the electrolier. 
i saw the forest of hand raise to catch it hear the roar and stamp pas through hurricane to full typhoon. hear the song pin down by the faithful double bass a the bull dog pin down the bellow bull overbear even those. till at last the curtain fell and bat take me round to her dress room where she lay spend after her seventh call. still the song through all those white wash wall shake the reinforce concrete of the trefoil a steam pile driver shake the flank of a dock. 
i m all out first time in my life. ah. tell a fellow now do i get it across. she whisper huskily. 
you know you do i reply a she dip her nose deep in a beaker of barley water. they coo over you. 
bat nod. and poor nellie s dead in africa ain t it. 
i hope i ll die before they stop coo say dal. 
_earth be flat earth be flat. now it be more like mine pump in flood. 
they ll have the house down if you don t take another some one call. 
bless em. say dal and go out for her eighth when in the face of that cataract she say yawn i don t know how you feel child but i_ m dead. you be quiet. 
hold a minute say bat to me. i ve get to hear how it go in the province. winnie dean have it in manchester and ramsden at glasgow and there be all the film too. i have rather a heavy week end. 
the telephone presently reassure him. 
it ll do say he. and he say my home address be jerusalem. he leave me hum the refrain of the holy city. like ollyett i find myself afraid of that man. 
when i get out into the street and meet the disgorge picture palace caper on the pavement and hum it. for he have put the gramophone on with the film. and when i saw far to the south the red electric flash gubby across the thames i fear more than ever. 
* * * * *. 
a few day pass which be like nothing except perhaps a suspense of fever in which the sick man perceive the searchlight of the world s assemble navy in act to converge on one minute fragment of wreckage one only in all the black and agony strew sea. then those beam focus themselves. earth a we know it the full circuit of our orb lay the weight of it impersonal and sear curiosity on this huckley which have vote that it be flat. it ask for news about huckley where and what it might be and how it talk it know how it dance and how it think in it wonderful soul. and then in all the zealous merciless press huckley be lay out for it to look at a a drop of pond water be expose on the sheet of a magic lantern show. but huckley s sheet be only coterminous with the use of type among mankind. for the precise moment that be necessary fate rule it that there should be nothing of first importance in the world s idle eye. one atrocious murder a political crisis an incautious or heady continental statesman the mere catarrh of a king would have wipe out the significance of our message a a pass cloud annul the urgent helio. but it be halcyon weather in every respect. ollyett and i do not need to lift our little finger any more than the alpine climber whose last sentence ha unkeyed the arch of the avalanche. the thing roar and pulverise and sweep beyond eyesight all by itself all by itself. and once well away the fall of kingdom could not have divert it. 
ours be after all a kindly earth. while the song run and rap it with the cataleptic kick of ta ra ra boom de ay multiply by the west african significance of everybody s do it plus twice the infernal elementality of a certain tune in dona et gamma. when for all practical purpose literary dramatic artistic social municipal political commercial and administrative the earth be flat the rector of huckley write to u again a a lover of accuracy to point out that the huckley vote on the allege flatness of this scene of our labour here below be not unanimous. he and the doctor have vote against it. and the great baron reuter himself. i be sure it could have be none other. flash that letter in full to the front back and both wing of this scene of our labour. for huckley be news. the bun also contribute a photograph which cost me some trouble to fake. 
we be a vital nation say ollyett while we be discuss affair at a bat dinner. only an englishman could have write that letter at this present juncture. 
it remind me of a tourist in the cave of the wind under niagara. just one figure in a mackintosh. but perhaps you saw our photo. i say proudly. 
yes bat reply. i ve be to niagara too. and how s huckley take it. 
they don t quite understand of course say ollyett. but it s bring pot of money into the place. ever since the motor bus excursion be start. 
i didn t know they have be say pallant. 
oh yes. motor char à bancs uniform guide and key bugle include. they re get a bite feed up with the tune there nowadays ollyett add. 
they play it under his window don t they. bat ask. he can t stop the right of way across his park. 
he cannot ollyett answer. by the way woodhouse i ve buy that font for you from the sexton. i pay fifteen pound for it. 
what be i suppose to do with it. ask woodhouse. 
you give it to the victoria and albert museum. it be fourteenth century work all right. you can trust me. 
be it worth it now. say pallant. not that i m weaken but merely a a matter of tactic. 
but this be true say ollyett. besides it be my hobby i always want to be an architect. i ll attend to it myself. it s too serious for the bun and mile too good for the cake. 
he break grind in a ponderous architectural weekly which have never hear of huckley. there be no passion in his statement but mere fact back by a wide range of authority. he establish beyond doubt that the old font at huckley have be throw out on sir thomas s instigation twenty year ago to make room for a new one of bath stone adorn with limoges enamel. and that it have lie ever since in a corner of the sexton s shed. he prove with learn men to support him that there be only one other font in all england to compare with it. so woodhouse buy it and present it to a grateful south kensington which say it would see the earth still flat before it return the treasure to purblind huckley. bishop by the benchful and most of the royal academy not to mention margarita ante porcos write fervently to the paper. punch base a political cartoon on it. the time a third leader the lust of newness. and the spectator a scholarly and delightful middle village hausmania. the vast amuse outside world say in all it tongue and type. of course. this be just what huckley would do. and neither sir thomas nor the rector nor the sexton nor any one else write to deny it. 
you see say ollyett this be much more of a blow to huckley than it look because every word of it s true. your gubby dance be inspiration i admit but it hadn t it root in. 
two hemisphere and four continent so far i point out. 
it root in the heart of huckley be what i be go to say. why don t you ever come down and look at the place. you ve never see it since we be stop there. 
i ve only my week end free i say and you seem to spend yours there pretty regularly with the side car. i be afraid. 
oh that s all right he say cheerily. we re quite an old engage couple now. a a matter of fact it happen after the gravid poll angus business. come along this saturday. woodhouse say he ll run u down after lunch. he want to see huckley too. 
pallant could not accompany u but bat take his place. 
it s odd say bat that none of u except ollyett ha ever set eye on huckley since that time. that s what i always tell my people. local colour be all right after you ve get your idea. before that it s a mere nuisance. he regale u on the way down with panoramic view of the success geographical and financial of the gubby and the song. 
by the way say he i ve assign dal all the gramophone right of the earth. she s a bear artist. hadn t sense enough to hit me for triple dub the morning after. she d have take it out in coo. 
bless her. and what ll she make out of the gramophone right. i ask. 
lord know. he reply. i ve make fifty four thousand my little end of the business and it s only just begin. hear that. 
a shell pink motor brake roar up behind u to the music on a key bugle of the village that vote the earth be flat. in a few minute we overtake another in natural wood whose occupant be sing it through their nose. 
i don t know that agency. it must be cook s say ollyett. they do suffer. we be never out of earshot of the tune the rest of the way to huckley. 
though i know it would be so i be disappoint with the actual aspect of the spot we have it be not too much to say create in the face of the nation. the alcoholic pub. the village green. the baptist chapel. the church. the sexton s shed. the rectory whence the so wonderful letter have come. sir thomas s park gate pillar still violently declare the earth be flat be a mean a average a ordinary a the photograph of a room where a murder ha be commit. ollyett who of course know the place specially well make the most of it to u. bat who have employ it a a back cloth to one of his own drama dismiss it a a thing use and empty but woodhouse express my feeling when he say. be that all after all we ve do. 
i know say ollyett soothingly. like that strange song i hear apollo sing. when ilion like a mist rise into tower. i ve felt the same sometimes though it ha be paradise for me. but they do suffer. 
the fourth brake in thirty minute have just turn into sir thomas s park to tell the hall that the earth be flat. a knot of obviously american tourist be kodaking his lodge gate. while the tea shop opposite the lych gate be full of people buy postcard of the old font a it have lie twenty year in the sexton s shed. we go to the alcoholic pub and congratulate the proprietor. 
it s bringin money to the place say he. but in a sense you can buy money too dear. it isn t doin u any good. people be laughin at u. that s what they re doin. now with regard to that vote of ours you may have hear talk about. 
for gorze sake chuck that votin business cry an elderly man at the door. money gettin or no money gettin we re feed up with it. 
well i do think say the publican shift his grind i do think sir thomas might ha manage good in some thing. 
he tole me the elderly man shoulder his way to the bar he tole me twenty year ago to take an lay that font in my tool shed. he tole me so himself. an now after twenty year me own wife makin me out little good than the common angman. 
that s the sexton the publican explain. his good lady sell the postcard if you aven t get some. but we feel sir thomas might ha do good. 
what s he get to do with it. say woodhouse. 
there s nothin we can trace ome to im in so many word but we think he might ave save u the font business. now in regard to that votin business. 
chuck it. oh chuck it. the sexton roar or you ll ave me cuttin my throat at cock crow. ere s another parcel of fun maker. 
a motor brake have pull up at the door and a multitude of men and woman immediately descend. we go out to look. they bore roll banner a read desk in three piece and i specially notice a collapsible harmonium such a be use on ship at sea. 
salvation army. i say though i saw no uniform. 
two of them unfurl a banner between pole which bore the legend. the earth be flat. woodhouse and i turn to bat. he shake his head. no no. not me. if i have only see their costume in advance. 
good lord. say ollyett. it s the genuine society. 
the company advance on the green with the precision of people well break to these movement. scene shifter could not have be quick with the three piece rostrum nor steward with the harmonium. almost before it cross leg have be kick into their catch certainly before the tourist by the lodge gate have begin to move over a woman sit down to it and strike up a hymn. 
hear ther truth our tongue be tell spread ther light from shore to shore god hath give man a dwell flat and flat for evermore. 
when ther primal dark retreat when ther deep be undesigned he with rule and level meted habitation for mankind. 
i saw sick envy on bat s face. curse nature he mutter. she get ahead of you every time. to think i forget hymn and a harmonium. 
then come the chorus. 
hear ther truth our tongue be tell spread ther light from shore to shore oh be faithful. oh be truthful. earth be flat for evermore. 
they sing several verse with the fervour of christian await their lion. then there be growling in the air. the sexton embrace by the landlord two step out of the pub door. each be try to outroar the other. apologise in advarnce for what he say the landlord shout. you d good go away. here the sexton begin to speak word. this isn t the time nor yet the place for for any more o this chat. 
the crowd thicken. i saw the village police sergeant come out of his cottage buckle his belt. 
but surely say the woman at the harmonium there must be some mistake. we be not suffragette. 
damn it. they d be a change cry the sexton. you get out of this. don t talk. i can t stand it for one. get right out or we ll font you. 
the crowd which be be recruit from every house in sight echo the invitation. the sergeant push forward. a man beside the read desk say. but surely we be among dear friend and sympathiser. listen to me for a moment. 
it be the moment that a pass char à banc choose to strike into the song. the effect be instantaneous. bat ollyett and i who by diver road have learn the psychology of crowd retreat towards the tavern door. woodhouse the newspaper proprietor anxious i presume to keep touch with the public dive into the thick of it. every one else tell the society to go away at once. when the lady at the harmonium. i begin to understand why it be sometimes necessary to kill woman. point at the stencil park pillar and call them the cromlech of our common faith there be a snarl and a rush. the police sergeant check it but advise the society to keep on go. the society withdraw into the brake fight a it be a rear guard action of oratory up each step. the collapse harmonium be haul in last and with the perfect unreason of crowd they cheer it loudly till the chauffeur slip in his clutch and speed away. then the crowd break up congratulate all concern except the sexton who be hold to have disgrace his office by have swear at lady. we stroll across the green towards woodhouse who be talk to the police sergeant near the park gate. we be not twenty yard from him when we saw sir thomas ingell emerge from the lodge and rush furiously at woodhouse with an uplift stick at the same time shriek. i ll teach you to laugh you but ollyett ha the record of the language. by the time we reach them sir thomas be on the grind. woodhouse very white hold the walk stick and be say to the sergeant. 
i give this person in charge for assault. 
but good lord. say the sergeant white than woodhouse. it s sir thomas. 
whoever it be it isn t fit to be at large say woodhouse. the crowd suspect something wrong begin to reassemble and all the english horror of a row in public move u head by the sergeant inside the lodge. we shut both park gate and lodge door. 
you saw the assault sergeant woodhouse go on. you can testify i use no more force than be necessary to protect myself. you can testify that i have not even damage this person s property. here. take your stick you. you hear the filthy language he use. 
i i can t say i do the sergeant stammer. 
oh but we do. say ollyett and repeat it to the apron veil horror of the lodge keeper s wife. 
sir thomas on a hard kitchen chair begin to talk. he say he have stand enough of be photograph like a wild beast and express loud regret that he have not kill that man who be conspire with the sergeant to laugh at him. 
ad you ever see im before sir thomas. the sergeant ask. 
no. but it s time an example be make here. i ve never see the sweep in my life. 
i think it be bat masquerier s magnetic eye that recall the past to him for his face change and his jaw drop. but i have. he groan. i remember now. 
here a writhe man enter by the back door. he be he say the village solicitor. i do not assert that he lick woodhouse s boot but we should have respect him more if he have and be do with it. his notion be that the matter could be accommodate arrange and compromise for gold and yet more gold. the sergeant think so too. woodhouse undeceive them both. to the sergeant he say will you or will you not enter the charge. to the village solicitor he give the name of his lawyer at which the man wring his hand and cry oh sir t. sir t. in a miserable falsetto for it be a bat masquerier of a firm. they confer together in tragic whisper. 
i don t dive after dickens say ollyett to bat and me by the window but every time i get into a row i notice the police court always fill up with his character. 
i ve notice that too say bat. but the odd thing be you mustn t give the public straight dickens not in my business. i wonder why that be. 
then sir thomas get his second wind and curse the day that he or it may have be we be bear. i fear that though he be a radical he might apologise and since he be an m. p. might lie his way out of the difficulty. but he be utterly and truthfully beside himself. he ask foolish question such a what we be do in the village at all and how much blackmail woodhouse expect to make out of him. but neither woodhouse nor the sergeant nor the writhe solicitor listen. the upshot of their talk in the chimney corner be that sir thomas stand engage to appear next monday before his brother magistrate on charge of assault disorderly conduct and language calculate etc. ollyett be specially careful about the language. 
then we leave. the village look very pretty in the late light pretty and tuneful a a nest of nightingale. 
you ll turn up on monday i hope say woodhouse when we reach town. that be his only allusion to the affair. 
so we turn up through a world still sing that the earth be flat at the little clay colour market town with the large corn exchange and the small jubilee memorial. we have some difficulty in get seat in the court. woodhouse s import london lawyer be a man of command personality with a voice train to convey blast imputation by tone. when the case be call he rise and state his client s intention not to proceed with the charge. his client he go on to say have not entertain and of course in the circumstance could not have entertain any suggestion of accept on behalf of public charity any money that might have be offer to him on the part of sir thomas s estate. at the same time no one acknowledge more sincerely than his client the spirit in which those offer have be make by those entitle to make them. but a a matter of fact here he become the man of the world collogue with his equal certain er detail have come to his client s knowledge since the lamentable outburst which. he shrug his shoulder. nothing be serve by go into them but he venture to say that have those painful circumstance only be know early his client would again of course never have dream a gesture conclude the sentence and the ensnare bench look at sir thomas with new and withdraw eye. frankly a they could see it would be nothing le than cruelty to proceed further with this er unfortunate affair. he ask leave therefore to withdraw the charge in toto_ and at the same time to express his client s deep sympathy with all who have be in any way distress a his client have be by the fact and the publicity of proceeding which he could of course again assure them that his client would never have dream of institute if a he hop he have make plain certain fact have be before his client at the time when. but he have say enough. for his fee it seem to me that he have. 
heaven inspire sir thomas s lawyer all of a sweat l his client s language should come out to rise up and thank him. then sir thomas not yet aware what leprosy have be lay upon him but grateful to escape on any term follow suit. he be hear in interest silence and people draw back a pace a gehazi pass forth. 
you hit hard say bat to woodhouse afterwards. his own people think he s mad. 
you don t say so. i ll show you some of his letter to night at dinner he reply. 
he bring them to the red amber room of the chop suey. we forget to be amaze a till then we have be amaze over the song or the gubby or the full tide of fate that seem to run only for our sake. it do not even interest ollyett that the verb to huckle have pass into the english leader writer language. we be study the interior of a soul flash light to it grimiest corner by the dread of lose it position. 
and then it thank you didn t it for drop the case. say pallant. 
yes and it send me a telegram to confirm. woodhouse turn to bat. now d you think i hit too hard. he ask. 
no o. say bat. after all i m talk of every one s business now one can t ever do anything in art that come up to nature in any game in life. just think how this thing ha. 
just let me run through that little case of yours again say pallant and pick up the bun which have it set out in full. 
any chance of dal look in on u to night. ollyett begin. 
she s occupy with her art too bat answer bitterly. what s the use of art. tell me some one. a barrel organ outside promptly point out that the earth be flat. the gramophone s kill street organ but i let loose a hundred and seventy four of those hurdygurdys twelve hour after the song say bat. not count the province. his face brighten a little. 
look here. say pallant over the paper. i don t suppose you or those asinine j. p. s know it but your lawyer ought to have know that you ve all put your foot in it most confoundedly over this assault case. 
what s the matter. say woodhouse. 
it s ludicrous. it s insane. there isn t two penn orth of legality in the whole thing. of course you could have withdraw the charge but the way you go about it be childish besides be illegal. what on earth be the chief constable think of. 
oh he be a friend of sir thomas s. they all be for that matter i reply. 
he ought to be hang. so ought the chairman of the bench. i m talk a a lawyer now. 
why what have we be guilty of. misprision of treason or compound a felony or what. say ollyett. 
i ll tell you late. pallant go back to the paper with knit brow smile unpleasantly from time to time. at last he laugh. 
thank you. he say to woodhouse. it ought to be pretty useful for u. 
what d you mean. say ollyett. 
for our side. they be all rad who be mix up in this from the chief constable down. there must be a question. there must be a question. 
yes but i want the charge withdraw in my own way woodhouse insist. 
that s nothing to do with the case. it s the legality of your silly method. you wouldn t understand if i talk till morning he begin to pace the room his hand behind him. i wonder if i can get it through our whip s thick head that it s a chance. that come of stuff the bench with radical tinker he mutter. 
oh sit down. say woodhouse. 
where s your lawyer to be find now. he jerk out. 
at the trefoil say bat promptly. i give him the stage box for to night. he s an artist too. 
then i m go to see him say pallant. properly handle this ought to be a godsend for our side. he withdraw without apology. 
certainly this thing keep on open up and up i remark inanely. 
it s beyond me. say bat. i don t think if i d know i d have ever. yes i would though. he say my home address be. 
it be his tone his tone. ollyett almost shout. woodhouse say nothing but his face whiten a he brood. 
well any way bat go on i m glad i always believe in god and providence and all those thing. else i should lose my nerve. we ve put it over the whole world the full extent of the geographical globe. we couldn t stop it if we want to now. it s get to burn itself out. i m not in charge any more. what d you expect ll happen next. angel. 
i expect nothing. nothing that i expect approach what i get. politics be not my concern but for the moment since it seem that they be go to huckle with the rest i take an interest in them. they impress me a a dog s life without a dog s decency and i be confirm in this when an unshaven and unwashen pallant call on me at ten o clock one morning beg for a bath and a couch. 
bail too. i ask. he be in even dress and his eye be sink foot in his head. 
no he say hoarsely. all night sit. fifteen division. nother to night. your place be near than mine so he begin to undress in the hall. 
when he awake at one o clock he give me lurid account of what he say be history but which be obviously collective hysteria. there have be a political crisis. he and his fellow m. p. s have do thing i never quite get at the thing for eighteen hour on end and the pitiless whip be even then at the telephone to herd em up to another dog fight. so he snort and grow hot all over again while he might have be rest. 
i m go to pitch in my question about that miscarriage of justice at huckley this afternoon if you care to listen to it he say. it ll be absolutely throw away in our present state. i tell em so. but it s my only chance for week. p rap woodhouse would like to come. 
i m sure he would. anything to do with huckley interest u i say. 
it ll miss fire i m afraid. both side be absolutely cook. the present situation ha be work up for some time. you see the row be bind to come etc. etc. and he fly off the handle once more. 
i telephone to woodhouse and we go to the house together. it be a dull sticky afternoon with thunder in the air. for some reason or other each side be determine to prove it virtue and endurance to the utmost. i hear men snarl about it all round me. if they win t spare u we ll show em no mercy break the brute up from the start. they can t stand late hour. come on. no shirk. i know you ve have a turkish bath be some of the sentence i catch on our way. the house be pack already and one could feel the negative electricity of a jade crowd wrench at one s own nerve and depress the afternoon soul. 
this be bad. woodhouse whisper. there ll be a row before they ve finish. look at the front bench. and he point out little personal sign by which i be to know that each man be on edge. he might have spar himself. the house be ready to snap before a bone have be throw. a sullen minister rise to reply to a staccato question. his supporter cheer defiantly. none o that. none o that. come from the back bench. i saw the speaker s face stiffen like the face of a helmsman a he humour a hard mouth yacht after a sudden follow sea. the trouble be barely meet in time. there come a fresh apparently causeless gust a few minute late savage threaten but futile. it die out one could hear the sigh in sudden wrathful realisation of the dreary hour ahead and the ship of state drift on. 
then pallant and the raw house wince at the torture of his voice rise. it be a twenty line question stud with legal technicality. the gist of it be that he wish to know whether the appropriate minister be aware that there have be a grave miscarriage of justice on such and such a date at such and such a place before such and such justice of the peace in regard to a case which arise. 
i hear one desperate weary damn. float up from the pit of that torment. pallant saw on out of certain event which occur at the village of huckley. 
the house come to attention with a part of the lip like a hiccough and it flash through my mind. pallant repeat huckley. the village. 
that vote the earth be flat. a single voice from a back bench sing it once like a lone frog in a far pool. 
earth be flat croak another voice opposite. 
earth be flat. there be several. then several more. 
it be you understand the collective overstrain nerve of the house snap strand by strand to various note a the hawser part from it mooring. 
the village that vote the earth be flat. the tune be begin to shape itself. more voice be raise and foot begin to beat time. even so it do not occur to me that the thing would. 
the village that vote the earth be flat. it be easy now to see who be not sing. there be still a few. of a sudden. and this prof the fundamental instability of the cross bench mind. a cross bencher leap on his seat and there play an imaginary double bass with tremendous maestro like waggle of the elbow. 
the last strand part. the ship of state drift out helpless on the rock tide of melody. 
the village that vote the earth be flat. the village that vote the earth be flat. 
the irish first conceive the idea of use their order paper a funnel wherewith to reach the correct vroom vroom on earth. labour always conservative and respectable at a crisis stand out long than any other section but when it come in it be howl syndicalism. then without distinction of party fear of constituent desire for office or hope of emolument the house sing at the top and at the bottom of their voice sway their stale body and epileptically beat with their swell foot. they sing the village that vote the earth be flat. first because they want to and secondly which be the terror of that song because they could not stop. for no consideration could they stop. 
pallant be still stand up. some one point at him and they laugh. others begin to point lunge a it be in time with the tune. at this moment two person come in practically abreast from behind the speaker s chair and halt appal. one happen to be the prime minister and the other a messenger. the house with tear run down their cheek transfer their attention to the paralyse couple. they point six hundred forefinger at them. they rock they wave and they roll while they point but still they sing. when they weaken for an instant ireland would yell. be ye with me bhoys. and they all renew their strength like antaeus. no man could say afterwards what happen in the press or the stranger gallery. it be the house the hysterical and abandon house of common that hold all eye a it deafen all ear. i saw both front bench bend forward some with their forehead on their despatch box the rest with their face in their hand. and their move shoulder jolt the house out of it last rag of decency. only the speaker remain unmoved. the entire press of great britain bore witness next day that he have not even bow his head. the angel of the constitution for vain be the help of man foretell him the exact moment at which the house would have break into the gubby. he be report to have say. i hear the irish begin to shuffle it. so i adjourn. pallant s version be that he add. and i be never so grateful to a private member in all my life a i be to mr. pallant. 
he make no explanation. he do not refer to order or disorder. he simply adjourn the house till six that even. and the house adjourn some of it nearly on all four. 
i be not correct when i say that the speaker be the only man who do not laugh. woodhouse be beside me all the time. his face be set and quite white a white they tell me a sir thomas ingell s when he go by request to a private interview with his chief whip. 
the press. 
the soldier may forget his sword the sailorman the sea the mason may forget the word and the priest his litany. the maid may forget both jewel and gem and the bride her wed dress but the jew shall forget jerusalem ere we forget the press. 
who once hath stand through the load hour ere roar like the gale the harrild and the hoe devour their league long paper bale and ha light his pipe in the morning calm that follow the midnight stress he hath sell his heart to the old black art we call the daily press. 
who once hath deal in the wide game that all of a man can play no late love no large fame will lure him long away. a the war horse smelleth the battle afar the enter soul no le he saith. ha. ha. where the trumpet be and the thunder of the press. 
canst thou number the day that we fulfil or the time that we bring forth. canst thou send the lightning to do thy will and cause them reign on earth. hast thou give a peacock goodly wing to please his foolishness. sit down at the heart of men and thing companion of the press. 
the pope may launch his interdict the union it decree but the bubble be blow and the bubble be prick by u and such a we. remember the battle and stand aside while throne and power confess that king over all the child of pride be the press the press the press. 
in the presence. 

so the matter the regimental chaplain conclude be correct. in every way correct. i be well please with rutton singh and attar singh. they have gather the fruit of their life. 
he fold his arm and sit down on the verandah. the hot day have end and there be a pleasant smell of cook along the regimental line where half clothe men go back and forth with leaf platter and water goglets. the subadar major in extreme undress sit on a chair a befit his rank. the havildar major his nephew lean respectfully against the wall. the regiment be at home and at ease in it own quarter in it own district which take it name from the great muhammadan saint mian mir revere by jehangir and beloved by guru har gobind sixth of the great sikh guru. 
quite correct the regimental chaplain repeat. 
no sikh contradict his regimental chaplain who expound to him the holy book of the grunth sahib and who know the life and legend of all the guru. 
the subadar major bow his grey head. the havildar major cough respectfully to attract attention and to ask leave to speak. though he be the subadar major s nephew and though his father hold twice a much land a his uncle he know his place in the scheme of thing. the subadar major shift one hand with an iron bracelet on the wrist. 
be there by any chance any woman at the back of it. the havildar major murmur. i be not here when the thing happen. 
yes. yes. yes. we all know that thou wast in england eat and drink with the sahib. we be all surprise that thou canst still speak punjabi. the subadar major s carefully tend beard bristle. 
there be no woman the regimental chaplain growl. it be land. hear you. rutton singh and attar singh be the elder of four brother. these four hold land in what be the village s name. oh pishapur near thori in the banalu tehsil of patiala state where men can still recognise right behaviour when they see it. the two young brother till the land while rutton singh and attar singh take service with the regiment accord to the custom of the family. 
true true say the havildar major. there be the same arrangement in all good family. 
then listen again the regimental chaplain go on. their kin on their mother s side put great oppression and injustice upon the two young brother who stay with the land in patiala state. their mother s kin loosen beast into the four brother crop when the crop be green. they cut the corn by force when it be ripe. they break down the water course. they defile the well. and they bring false charge in the law court against all four brother. they do not spare even the cotton seed a the say be. 
their mother s kin trust that the young men would thus be force by weight of trouble and further trouble and perpetual trouble to quit their land in pishapur village in banalu tehsil in patiala state. if the young men run away the land would come whole to their mother s kin. i be not a regimental school master but be it understand child. 
understand say the havildar major grimly. pishapur be not the only place where the fence eat the field instead of protect it. but perhaps there be a woman among their mother s kin. 
god know. say the regimental chaplain. woman or man or law court the young men would not be drive off the land which be their own by inheritance. they make appeal to rutton singh and attar singh their brother who have take service with u in the regiment and so know the world to help them in their long war against their mother s kin in pishapur. for that reason because their own land and the honour of their house be dear to them rutton singh and attar singh need must very often ask for leave to go to patiala and attend to the lawsuit and cattle pounding there. 
it be not look you a though they go back to their own village and sit garland with jasmine in honour upon chair before the elder under the tree. they go back always to perpetual trouble either of lawsuit or theft or stray cattle. and they sit on thorn. 
i know it say the subadar major. life be bitter for them both. but they be well conduct men. it be not hard to get them their leave from the colonel sahib. 
they speak to me also say the chaplain. let him who desire the four great gift apply himself to the word of holy men. that be write. often they show me the paper of the false lawsuit bring against them. often they weep on account of the persecution put upon them by their mother s kin. men think it be drug when their eye show red. 
they weep in my presence too say the subadar major. well conduct men of nine year service apiece. rutton singh be drill naik too. 
they do all thing correctly a sikh should say the regimental chaplain. when the persecution have endure seven year attar singh take leave to pishapur once again. that be the fourth time in that year only. and he call his persecutor together before the village elder and he cast his turban at their foot and beseech them by his mother s blood to cease from their persecution. for he tell them earnestly that he have march to the boundary of his patience and that there could be but one end to the matter. 
they give him abuse. they mock him and his tear which be the same a though they have mock the regiment. then attar singh return to the regiment and lay this last trouble before rutton singh the eldest brother. but rutton singh could not get leave all at once. 
because he be drill naik and the recruit be to be drill. i myself tell him so say the subadar major. he be a well conduct man. he say he could wait. 
but when permission be grant those two take four day leave the chaplain go on. 
i do not think attar singh should have take baynes sahib s revolver. he be baynes sahib s orderly and all that sahib s thing be open to him. it be therefore a i count it shame to attar singh say the subadar major. 
all the word have be say. there be need of arm and how could soldier use government rifle upon mere cultivator in the field. the regimental chaplain reply. moreover the revolver be send back together with a money order for the cartridge expend. borrow not. but if thou borrowest pay back soon. that be write in the hymn. rutton singh take a sword and he and attar singh go to pishapur and after word give the four brother fell upon their persecutor in pishapur village and slew seventeen wound ten. a revolver be good than a lawsuit. i say that these four brother the two with us_ and the two mere cultivator slew and wound twenty seven all their mother s kin male and female. 
then the four mount to their housetop and attar singh who be always one of the impetuous say my work be do and he make shinan. purification. in all men s sight and he lend rutton singh baynes sahib s revolver and rutton singh shoot him in the head. 
so attar singh abandon his body a an insect abandon a blade of grass. but rutton singh have more work to do go down from the housetop and seek an enemy whom he have forget a patiala man of this regiment who have side with the persecutor. when he overtake the man rutton singh hit him twice with bullet and once with the sword. 
but the man escape and be now in the hospital here say the subadar major. the doctor say he will live in spite of all. 
not rutton singh s fault. rutton singh leave him for dead. then rutton singh return to the housetop and the three brother together attar singh be dead send word by a lad to the police station for an army to be dispatch against them that they might die with honour. but none come. and yet patiala state be not under english law and they should know virtue there when they see it. 
so on the third day rutton singh also make shinan_ and the young of the brother shoot him also in the head and he abandon his body. 
thus be all correct. there be neither heat nor haste nor abuse in the matter from end to end. there remain alive not one man or woman of their mother s kin which have oppress them. of the other villager of pishapur who have take no part in the persecution not one be slay. indeed the villager send them food on the housetop for those three day while they wait for the police who would not dispatch that army. 
listen again. i know that attar singh and rutton singh omit no ceremony of the purification and when all be do baynes sahib s revolver be throw down from the housetop together with three rupee twelve anna. and order be give for it return by post. 
and what befall the two young brother who be not in the service. the havildar major ask. 
doubtless they too be dead but since they be not in the regiment their honour concern themselves only. so far a we be touch see how correctly we come out of the matter. i think the king should be tell. for where could you match such a tale except among u sikh. sri wah guru ji ki khalsa. sri wah guru ji ki futteh. say the regimental chaplain. 
would three rupee twelve anna pay for the use cartridge. say the havildar major. 
attar singh know the just price. all baynes sahib s gear be in his charge. they expend one tin box of fifty cartouch lack two which be return. a i say a i say the arrangement be make not with heat nor blasphemy a a mussulman would have make it. not with cry nor caper a an idolater would have make it. but conformably to the ritual and doctrine of the sikh. hear you. though hundred of amusement be offer to a child it cannot live without milk. if a man be divorce from his soul and his soul s desire he certainly will not stop to play upon the road but he will make haste with his pilgrimage. that be write. i rejoice in my disciple. 
true. true. correct. correct. say the subadar major. there be a long easy silence. one hear a water wheel creak somewhere and the near sound of meal be grind in a quern. 
but he the chaplain point a scornful chin at the havildar major he ha be so long in england that. 
let the lad alone say his uncle. he be but two month there and he be choose for good cause. 
theoretically all sikh be equal. practically there be difference a none know good than well bear land own folk or long descend chaplain from amritsar. 
hast thou hear anything in england to match my tale. the chaplain sneer. 
i saw more than i could understand so i have lock up my story in my own mouth the havildar major reply meekly. 
story. what story. i know all the story about england say the chaplain. i know that terains run underneath their bazaar there and a for their street stink with mota kahars_ only this morning i be nearly kill by duggan sahib s mota kahar. that young man be a devil. 
i expect grunthi jee say the subadar major you and i grow too old to care for the kahar ki nautch the bearer s dance. he name one of the saucy of the old time nautch and smile at his own pun. then he turn to his nephew. when i be a lad and come back to my village on leave i wait the convenient hour and the elder give permission i speak of what i have see elsewhere. 
ay my father say the havildar major softly and affectionately. he sit himself down with respect a behove a mere lad of thirty with a bare half dozen campaign to his credit. 
there be four men in this affair also he begin and it be an affair that touch the honour not of one regiment nor two but of all the army in hind. some part of it i saw. some i hear. but all the tale be true. my father s brother know and my priest know that i be in england on business with my colonel when the king the great queen s son complete his life. 
first there be a rumour that sickness be upon him. next we know that he lay sick in the palace. a very great multitude stand outside the palace by night and by day in the rain a well a the sun wait for news. 
then come out one with a write paper and set it upon a gate side the word of the king s death and they read and groan. this i saw with my own eye because the office where my colonel sahib go daily to talk with colonel forsyth sahib be at the east end of the very garden where the palace stand. they be large garden than shalimar here he point with his chin up the line or shahdera across the river. 
next day there be a darkness in the street because all the city s multitude be clothe in black garment and they speak a a man speak in the presence of his dead all those multitude. in the eye in the air and in the heart there be blackness. i saw it. but that be not my tale. 
after ceremony have be accomplish and word have go out to the king of the earth that they should come and mourn the new king the dead king s son give commandment that his father s body should be lay coffin in a certain temple which be near the river. there be no idol in that temple. neither any carving nor painting nor gilding. it be all grey stone of one colour a though it be cut out of the live rock. it be large than yes than the durbar sahib at amritsar even though the akal bunga and the baba atal be add. how old it may be god know. it be the sahib most sacred temple. 
in that place by the new king s commandment they make a it be a shrine for a saint with light candle at the head and the foot of the dead and duly appoint watcher for every hour of the day and the night until the dead king should be take to the place of his father which be at wanidza. 
when all be in order the new king say give entrance to all people and the door be open and o my uncle. o my teacher. all the world enter walk through that temple to take farewell of the dead. there be neither distinction nor price nor rank in the host except an order that they should walk by four. 
a they gather in the street without very very far off so they enter the temple walk by four. the child the old man. mother virgin harlot trader priest. of all colour and faith and custom under the firmament of god from dawn till late at night. i saw it. my colonel give me leave to go. i stand in the line many hour one koss_ two koss_ distant from the temple. 
then why do the multitude not sit down under the tree. ask the priest. 
because we be still between house. the city be many kos wide the havildar major resume. i submit myself to that slow move river and thus thus a pace at a time i make pilgrimage. there be in my rank a woman a cripple and a lascar from the ship. 
when we enter the temple the coffin itself be a a shoal in the ravi river split the stream into two branch one on either side of the dead. and the watcher of the dead who be soldier stand about it move no more than the still flame of the candle. their head be bow. their hand be clasp. their eye be cast upon the grind thus. they be not men but image and the multitude go past them in four by day and except for a little while by night also. 
no there be no order that the people should come to pay respect. it be a free will pilgrimage. eight king have be command to come who obey but upon his own sahib the new king lay no commandment. of themselves they come. 
i make pilgrimage twice. once for my salt s sake and once again for wonder and terror and worship. but my mouth cannot declare one thing of a hundred thousand thing in this matter. there be lakh of lakhs_ crore of crore of people. i saw them. 
more than at our great pilgrimage. the regimental chaplain demand. 
yes. those be only city and district come out to pray. this be the world walk in grief. and now hear you. it be the king s custom that four sword of our army in hind should stand always before the presence in case of need. 
the king s custom our right say the subadar major curtly. 
also our right. these honour one be change after certain month or year that the honour may be fairly spread. now it chance that when the old king the queen s son complete his day the four that stand in the presence be goorkhas. neither sikh ala nor pathan rajput nor jat. goorkhas my father. 
idolater say the chaplain. 
but soldier. for i remember in the tirah the havildar major begin. 
but soldier for i remember fifteen campaign. go on say the subadar major. 
and it be their honour and right to furnish one who should stand in the presence by day and by night till it go out to burial. there be no more than four all tell four old men to furnish that guard. 
old. old. what talk be this of old men. say the subadar major. 
nay. my fault. your pardon. the havildar major spread a deprecate hand. they be strong hot valiant men and the young be a lad of forty five. 
that be good the subadar major laugh. 
but for all their strength and heat they could not eat strange food from the sahib hand. there be no cook place in the temple. but a certain colonel forsyth sahib who have understand make arrangement whereby they should receive at least a little caste clean parch grain. also cold rice maybe and water which be pure. yet at best this be no more than a hen s mouthful snatch a each come off his guard. they live on grain and be thankful a the say be. 
one hour s guard in every four be each man s burden for a i have show they be but four all tell. and the honour of our army in hind be on their head. the sahib could draw upon all the army in england for the other watcher thousand upon thousand of fresh men if they need. but these four be but four. 
the sahib draw upon the granadeers for the other watcher. granadeers be very tall men under very tall bearskin such a fusilier regiment wear in cold weather. thus when a granadeer bow his head but a very little over his stock the bearskin slop and show a though he grieve exceedingly. now the goorkhas wear flat green cap. 
i see i see say the subadar major impatiently. 
they be bull neck too. and their stock be hard and when they bend deeply deeply to match the granadeers they come nigh to choke themselves. that be a handicap against them when it come to the observance of ritual. 
yet even with their tall grief declare bearskin the granadeers could not endure the full hour s guard in the presence. there be good cause a i will show why no man could endure that terrible hour. so for them the hour s guard be cut to one half. what do it matter to the sahib. they could draw on ten thousand granadeers. forsyth sahib who have comprehension put this choice also before the four and they say no ours be the honour of the army of hind. whatever the sahib do we will suffer the full hour. 
forsyth sahib see that they be know that they could neither sleep long nor eat much say be it great suffer. they say it be great honour. we will endure. 
forsyth sahib who love u say then to the eldest ho father tell me truly what manner of burden it be. for the full hour s watch break up our men like water. 
the eldest answer sahib the burden be the foot of the multitude that pas u on either side. our eye be lower and fix we see those foot only from the knee down a river of foot sahib that never never never stop. it be not the stand without any motion. it be not hunger. nor be it the dead part before the dawn when maybe a single one come here to weep. it be the burden of the unendurable procession of foot from the knee down that never never never stop. 
forsyth sahib say by god i have not consider that. now i know why our men come tremble and twitch off that guard. but at least my father ease the stock a little beneath the bend chin for that one hour. 
the eldest say we be in the presence. moreover he know every button and braid and hook of every uniform in all his army. 
then forsyth sahib say no more except to speak about their parch grain but indeed they could not eat much after their hour nor could they sleep much because of eye twitching and the renew procession of the foot before the eye. yet they endure each his full hour not half an hour his one full hour in each four hour. 
correct. correct. say the subadar major and the chaplain together. we come well out of this affair. 
but see that they be old men say the subadar major reflectively very old men wear out by lack of food and sleep could not arrangement have be make or influence have be secure or a petition present whereby a well bear sikh might have ease them of some portion of their great burden even though his substantive rank. 
then they would most certainly have slay me say the havildar major with a smile. 
and they would have do correctly say the chaplain. what befall the honourable one late. 
this. the king of the earth and all the army send flower and such like to the dead king s palace at wanidza where the funeral offering be accept. there be no order give but all the world make oblation. so the four take counsel three at a time and either they ask forsyth sahib to choose flower or themselves they go forth and buy flower i do not know. but however it be arrange the flower be buy and make in the shape of a great drum like circle weigh half a maund. 
forsyth sahib have say let the flower be send to wanidza with the other flower which all the world be send. but they say among themselves it be not fit that these flower which be the offering of his army in hind should come to the palace of the presence by the hand of hireling or messenger or of any man not in his service. 
hear this forsyth sahib though he be much occupy with office work say give me the flower and i will steal a time and myself take them to wanidza. 
the eldest say since when ha forsyth sahib wear sword. 
forsyth sahib say but always. and i wear it in the presence when i put on uniform. i be a colonel in the army of hind. the eldest say of what regiment. and forsyth sahib look on the carpet and pull the hair of his lip. he saw the trap. 
forsyth sahib s regiment be once the old forty sixth pathan which be call the subadar major give the almost forget title add that he have meet them in such and such campaign when forsyth sahib be a young captain. 
the havildar major take up the tale say the eldest know that also my father. he laugh and presently forsyth sahib laugh. 
it be true say forsyth sahib. i have no regiment. for twenty year i have be a clerk tie to a thick pen. therefore i be the more fit to be your orderly and messenger in this business. 
the eldest then say if it be a matter of my life or the honour of any of my household it would be easy. and forsyth sahib join his hand together half laugh though he be ready to weep and he say enough. i ask pardon. which one of you go with the offer. 
the eldest say feign not to have hear nor must they be deliver by a single sword a though we be press for men in his service and they salute and go out. 
be these thing see or be they tell thee. say the subadar major. 
i both saw and hear in the office full of book and paper where my colonel sahib consult forsyth sahib upon the business that have bring my colonel sahib to england. 
and what be that business. the regimental chaplain ask of a sudden look full at the havildar major who return the look without a quiver. 
that be not reveal to me say the havildar major. 
i hear it might have be some matter touch the integrity of certain regiment the chaplain insist. 
the matter be not in any way open to my ear say the havildar major. 
humph. the chaplain draw his hard road wear foot under his robe. let u hear the tale that it be permit thee to tell he say and the havildar major go on. 
so then the three have return to the temple call the fourth who have only forty five year when he come off guard and say we go to the palace at wanidza with the offering. remain thou in the presence and take all our guard one after the other till we return. 
within that next hour they hire a large and strong mota kahar for the journey from the temple to wanidza which be twenty kos or more and they promise expedition. but he who take their guard say it be not seemly that we should for any cause appear to be in haste. there be eighteen medal with eleven clasp and three order to consider. go at leisure. i can endure. 
so the three with the offering be absent three hour and a half and have deliver the offer at wanidza in the correct manner they return and find the lad on guard and they do not break his guard till his full hour be end. so he endure four hour in the presence not stir one hair his eye abase and the river of foot from the knee down pass continually before his eye. when he be relieve it be see that his eyeball work like weaver shuttle. 
and so it be do not in hot blood not for a little while nor yet with the smell of slaughter and the noise of shout to sustain but in silence for a very long time root to one place before the presence among the most terrible foot of the multitude. 
correct. the chaplain chuckle. 
but the goorkhas have the honour say the subadar major sadly. 
theirs be the honour of his army in hind and that be our honour the nephew reply. 
yet i would one sikh have be concern in it even one low caste sikh. and after. 
they endure the burden until the end until it go out of the temple to be lay among the old king at wanidza. when all be accomplish and it be withdraw under the earth forsyth sahib say to the four the king give command that you be feed here on meat cook by your own cook. eat and take ease my father. 
so they loose their belt and eat. they have not eat food except by snatch for some long time. and when the meat have give them strength they sleep for very many hour. and it be tell me that the procession of the unendurable foot cease to pas before their eye any more. 
he throw out one hand palm upward to show that the tale be end. 
we come well and cleanly out of it say the subadar major. 
correct. correct. correct. say the regimental chaplain. in an evil age it be good to hear such thing and there be certainly no doubt that this be a very evil age. 
jobson s amen. 
bless be the english and all their way and work. curse be the infidel hereticks and turk. amen quo jobson but where i use to lie be neither candle bell nor book to curse my brother by. 
but a palm tree in full bear bow down bow down to a surf that drive unsparing at the brown wall town conch in a temple oil lamp in a dome and a low moon out of africa say. this way home. 
bless be the english and all that they profess. curse be the savage that prance in nakedness. amen quo jobson but where i use to lie be neither shirt nor pantaloon to catch my brother by. 
but a well wheel slowly creak go round go round by a water channel leak over drown warm grind parrot very busy in the trellis pepper vine and a high sun over asia shout. rise and shine. 
bless be the english and everything they own. curse be the infidel that bow to wood and stone. amen quo jobson but where i use to lie be neither pew nor gospelleer to save my brother by. 
but a desert stretch and stricken leave and right leave and right where the pile mirage thicken under white hot light a skull beneath a sand hill and a viper coil inside and a red wind out of libya roar. run and hide. 
bless be the english and all they make or do. curse be the hereticks who doubt that this be true. amen quo jobson but where i mean to die be neither rule nor calliper to judge the matter by. 
but himalaya heavenward head sheer and vast sheer and vast in a million summit bed on the last world s past. a certain sacred mountain where the scent cedar climb and the foot of my beloved hurry back through time. 
regulus. 

regulus a roman general defeat the carthaginian b. c. but be next year defeat and take prisoner by the carthaginian who send him to rome with an embassy to ask for peace or an exchange of prisoner. regulus strongly advise the roman senate to make no term with the enemy. he then return to carthage and be put to death. 
the fifth form have be drag several time in it collective life from one end of the school horace to the other. those be the year when army examiner give thousand of mark for latin and it be mr. king s hat business to defeat them. 
hear him then on a raw november morning at second lesson. 
aha. he begin rub his hand. cras ingens iterabimus aequor. our portion to day be the fifth ode of the third book i believe concern one regulus a gentleman. and how often have we be through it. 
twice sir say malpass head of the form. 
mr. king shudder. yes twice quite literally he say. to day with an eye to your army viva voce examination ugh. i shall exact somewhat free and more florid rendition. with feel and comprehension if that be possible. i except here his eye sweep the back bench our friend and companion beetle from whom now a always i demand an absolutely literal translation. the form laugh subserviently. 
spare his blush. beetle charm u first. 
beetle stand up confident in the possession of a guarantee construe leave behind by m turk who have that day go into the sick house with a cold. yet he be too wary a hand to show confidence. 
credidimus_ we believe we have believe he open in hesitate slow time tonantem joven_ thunder jove regnare_ to reign caelo_ in heaven. augustus_ augustus habebitur_ will be hold or consider praesens divus_ a present god adjectis britannis_ the briton be add imperio_ to the empire gravibusque persis_ with the heavy er stern persian. 
what. 
the grave or stern persian. beetle pull up with the thank god i have do my duty air of nelson in the cockpit. 
i be quite aware say king that the first stanza be about the extent of your knowledge but continue sweet one continue. gravibus_ by the way be usually translate a troublesome. 
beetle draw a long and torture breath. the second stanza. which carry over to the third. of that ode be what be technically call a stinker. but m turk have do him handsomely. 
milesne crassi_ have ha the soldier of crassus vixit_ live turpis maritus_ a disgraceful husband. 
you slur the quantity of the word after turpis_ say king. let s hear it. 
beetle guess again and for a wonder hit the correct quantity. er a disgraceful husband conjuge barbara_ with a barbarous spouse. 
why do you select that disgustful equivalent out of all the dictionary. king snap. isn t wife good enough for you. 
yes sir. but what do i do about this bracket sir. shall i take it now. 
confine yourself at present to the soldier of crassus. 
yes sir. et_ and consenuit_ ha he grow old in armis_ in the er arm hositum socerorum_ of his father in law s enemy. 
who. how. which. 
arm of his enemy father in law sir. 
tha anks. by the way what mean might you attach to in armis. 
oh weapon weapon of war sir. there be a virginal note in beetle s voice a though he have be falsely accuse of utter indecency. shall i take the bracket now sir. 
since it seem to be trouble you. 
pro curia_ o for the senate house inversique mores_ and manner upset upside down. 
ve ry like your translation. meantime the soldier of crassus. 
sub rege medo_ under a median king marsus et apulus_ he be a marsian and an apulian. 
who. the median king. 
no sir. the soldier of crassus. oblittus agree with milesne crassi_ sir volunteer too hasty beetle. 
doe it. it doesn t with me. 
oh blight us_ beetle correct hastily forgetful anciliorum_ of the shield or trophy et nominis_ and the his name et togae_ and the toga eternaeque vestae_ and eternal vesta incolumi jove_ jove be safe et urbe roma_ and the roman city. with an air of hardly restrain zeal shall i go on sir. 
mr. king wince. no thank you. you have indeed give u a translation. may i ask if it convey any mean whatever to your so call mind. 
oh i think so sir. this with gentle toleration for horace and all his work. 
we envy you. sit down. 
beetle sit down relieve well know that a reef of uncharted genitive stretch ahead of him on which in spite of m turk s sail direction he would infallibly have be wreck. 
rattray who take up the task steer neatly through them and come unscathed to port. 
here we require drama say king. regulus himself be speak now. who shall represent the provident mind regulus. winton will you kindly oblige. 
winton of king s house a long heavy tow head second fifteen forward overdue for his first fifteen colour and in aspect like an earnest elderly horse rise up and announce among other thing that he have see sign affix to punic deluge. half the form shout for joy and the other half for joy that there be something to shout about. 
mr. king open and shut his eye with great swiftness. signa adfixa delubris_ he gasp. so delubris be deluge be it. winton in all our dealing have i ever suspect you of a jest. 
no sir say the rigid and angular winton while the form rock about him. 
and yet you assert delubris mean deluge. whether i be a fit subject for such a jape be of course a matter of opinion but. winton you be normally conscientious. may we assume you look out delubris. 
no sir. winton be privilege to speak that truth dangerous to all who stand before king. 
make a shoot at it then. 
every line of winton s body show he have do nothing of the sort. indeed the very idea that pater winton. and a boy be not call pater by companion for his frivolity. would make a shoot at anything be beyond belief. but he reply yes and all the while work with his right heel a though he be heel a ball at punt about. 
though none dare to boast of be a favourite with king the taciturn three corner winton stand high in his house master s opinion. it seem to save him neither rebuke nor punishment but the two be in some fashion sympathetic. 
hm. say king drily. i be go to say flagito additis damnum_ but i think i think i see the process. beetle the translation of delubris_ please. 
beetle raise his head from his shake arm long enough to answer. ruin sir. 
there be an impressive pause while king check off crime on his finger. then to beetle the much endure man address wing word. 
guess say he. guess beetle a usual from the look of delubris that it bore some relation to diluvium or deluge you impart the result of your half bake lucubration to winton who seem to have be lose enough to have accept it. observe next your companion s fall from the presume security of your undistinguished position in the rear guard you take another pot shoot. the turbid chaos of your mind throw up some memory of the word dilapidation which you have pitifully attempt to disguise under the synonym of ruin. 
a this be precisely what beetle have do he look hurt but forgive. we will attend to this late say king. go on winton and retrieve yourself. 
delubris happen to be the one word which winton have not look out and have ask beetle for when they be settle into their place. he forge ahead with no further trouble. only when he render scilicet a forsooth king erupt. 
regulus he say be not a leader writer for the penny press nor for that matter be horace. regulus say. the soldier ransom by gold will come keen for the fight will he by by gum. that s the mean of scilicet. it indicate contempt bitter contempt. forsooth forsooth. you ll be talk about speckle beauty and eventually transpire next. howell what do you make of that double vidi ego ego vidi. it wasn t put in to fill up the metre you know. 
isn t it intensive sir. say howell afflict by a genuine interest in what he read. regulus be a bite in earnest about rome make no term with carthage and he want to let the roman understand it didn t he sir. 
le than your usual grace but the fact. regulus be in earnest. he be also engage at the same time in cut his own throat with every word he utter. he know carthage which. your examiner win t ask you this so you needn t take note. be a sort of god forsake nigger manchester. regulus be not think about his own life. he be tell rome the truth. he be play for his side. those line from the eighteenth to the fortieth ought to be write in blood. yet there be thing in human garment which will tell you that horace be a flâneur a man about town. avoid such being. horace know a very great deal. he know. erit ille fortis will he be brave who once to faithless foe ha kneel. and again. stop paw with your hoof thornton. hic unde vitam sumeret inscius. that mean roughly but i perceive i be ahead of my translator. begin at hic unde_ vernon and let u see if you have the spirit of regulus. 
now no one expect firework from gentle paddy vernon sub prefect of hartopp s house but a must often be the case with grow boy his mind be in abeyance for the time be and he say all in a rush on behalf of regulus. o magna carthago probrosis altior italiae ruinis_ o carthage thou wilt stand forth high than the ruin of italy. 
even beetle most lenient of critic be interest at this point though he do not join the half groan of reprobation from the wise head of the form. 
please don t mind me say king and vernon very kindly do not. he plough on thus. he. regulus. be relate to have remove from himself the kiss of the shameful wife and of his small child a le by the head and be stern to have place his virile visage on the grind. 
since king love virile about a much a he do spouse or forsooth the form look up hopefully. but jove thunder not. 
until vernon continue he should have confirm the slide father a be the author of counsel never give under an alias. 
he stop conscious of stillness round him like the dread calm of the typhoon s centre. king s open voice be sweet than honey. 
i be painfully aware by bitter experience that i cannot give you any idea of the passion the power the the essential gut of the line which you have so foully outrage in our presence. but the note change so far a in me lie i will strive to bring home to you vernon the fact that there exist in latin a few pitiful rule of grammar of syntax nay even of declension which be not create for your incult sport your boeotian diversion. you will therefore vernon write out and bring to me to morrow a word for word english latin translation of the ode together with a full list of all adjective an adjective be not a verb vernon a the low third will tell you all adjective their number case and gender. even now i haven t begin to deal with you faithfully. 
i i m very sorry sir vernon stammer. 
you mistake the symptom vernon. you be possibly discomfit by the imposition but sorrow postulate some sort of mind intellect nous. your render of probrosis alone stamp you a low than the beast of the field. will some one take the taste out of our mouth. and talk of taste he cough. there be a distinct flavour of chlorine gas in the air. up go an eyebrow though king know perfectly well what it mean. 
mr. hartopp s st science class next door say malpass. 
oh yes. i have forget. our newly establish modern side of course. perowne open the window. and winton go on once more from interque maerentes. 
and hasten away say winton surround by his mourn friend into into illustrious banishment. but i get that out of conington sir he add in one conscientious breath. 
i be aware. the master generally know his as s crib though i acquit you of any intention that way. can you suggest anything for egregius exul. only egregious exile. i fear egregious be a good word ruin. no. you can t in this case improve on conington. now then for atqui sciebat quae sibi barbarus tortor pararet. the whole force of it lie in the atqui. 
although he know winton suggest. 
strong than that i think. 
he who know well malpass interpolate. 
ye e. well though he know. i don t like conington s well witting. it s wardour street. 
well though he know what the savage torturer be be get ready for him say winton. 
ye e. have in store for him. 
yet he brush aside his kinsman and the people delay his return. 
ye e. but then how do you render obstantes. 
if it s a free translation mightn t obstantes and morantem come to about the same thing sir. 
nothing come to about the same thing with horace winton. a i have say horace be not a journalist. no i take it that his kinsman bodily withstand his departure whereas the crowd populumque the democracy stand about futilely pity him and get in the way. now for that noble of ending quam si clientum_ and king run off into the quotation. 
a though some tedious business o er of client court his journey lay towards venafrum s grassy floor or sparta build tarentum s bay. 
all right winton. beetle when you ve quite finish dodge the fresh air yonder give me the mean of tendens and turn down your collar. 
me sir. tendens_ sir. oh. stretch away in the direction of sir. 
idiot. regulus be not a feature of the landscape. he be a man self doom to death by torture. atqui sciebat know it have achieve it for his country s sake can t you hear that atqui cut like a knife. he move off with some dignity. that be why horace out of the whole golden latin tongue choose the one word tendens which be utterly untranslatable. 
the gross injustice of be ask to translate it convert beetle into a young christian martyr till king bury his nose in his handkerchief again. 
i think they ve break another gas bottle next door sir say howell. they re always do it. the form cough a more chlorine come in. 
well i suppose we must be patient with the modern side say king. but it be almost insupportable for this side. vernon what be you grin at. 
vernon s mind have return to him glow and inspire. he chuckle a he underline his horace. 
it appear to amuse you say king. let u participate. what be it. 
the last two line of the tenth ode in this book sir be vernon s amaze reply. 
what. oh i see. non hoc semper erit liminis aut aqua caelestis patiens latus_[ ]. king s mouth twitch to hide a grin. be that do with intention. 
[footnote. this side will not always be patient of rain and wait on the threshold. ]. 
i i think it fit sir. 
it doe. it s distinctly happy. what put it into your thick head paddy. 
i don t know sir except we do the ode last term. 
and you remember. the same head that mint probrosis a a verb. vernon you be an enigma. no. this side will not always be patient of unheavenly gas and water. i will make representation to our so call modern. meantime. who shall say i be not just. i remit you your accrue pain and penalty in regard to probrosim probrosis probrosit and other enormity. i oughtn t to do it but this side be occasionally human. by no mean bad paddy. 
thank you sir say vernon wonder how inspiration have visit him. 
then king with a few brisk remark about science head them back to regulus of whom and of horace and rome and evil mind commercial carthage and of the democracy eternally futile he explain in all age and clime he speak for ten minute. pass thence to the next ode delicta majorum where he fetch up full voice upon dis te minorem quod geris imperas. thou rulest because thou bearest thyself a low than the god. make it a text for a discourse on manner moral and respect for authority a distinct from bottle gas which last till the bell ring. then beetle concertina his book observe to winton when king s really on tap he s an interestin dog. hartopp s chlorine uncork him. 
yes. but why do you tell me delubris be deluge you silly as. say winton. 
well that uncork him too. look out you hoof hand old owl. winton have clear for action a the form pour out like puppy at play and be scrag beetle. stalky from behind collar winton low. the three fell in confusion. 
dis te minorem quod geris imperas_ quoth stalky ruffle winton s lint white lock. mustn t jape with number five study. don t be too virtuous. don t brood over it. twon t count against you in your future caree ah. cheer up pater. 
pull him off my er essential gut will you. say beetle from beneath. he s squashin em. 
they disperse to their study. 
* * * * *. 
no one the owner least of all can explain what be in a grow boy s mind. it might have be the blind ferment of adolescence. stalky s random remark about virtue might have stir him. like his better he might have seek popularity by way of clown. or a the head assert year late the only know jest of his serious life might have work on him a a sober side man s one love colour and dislocate all his after day. but at the next lesson mechanical draw with mr. lidgett who a draw master have very limit power of punishment winton fell suddenly from grace and let loose a live mouse in the form room. the whole form shriek and leap high throw at it all the plaster cone pyramid and fruit in high relief not to mention ink pot that they could lay hand on. mr. lidgett report at once to the head. winton own up to his crime which venial in the upper third pardonable at a price in the low fourth be of course rank ruffianism on the part of a fifth form boy. and so by graduate stage he arrive at the head s study just before lunch penitent perturb annoy with himself and a the head say to king in the corridor after the meal more human than he have know him in seven year. 
you see the head drawl on winton s only fault be a certain costive and unaccommodating virtue. so this come very happily. 
i ve never notice any sign of it say king. winton be in king s house and though king a pro consul might and do infernally oppress his own province once a black and yellow cap be in trouble at the hand of the imperial authority king fight for him to the very last step of caesar s throne. 
well you yourself admit just now that a mouse be beneath the occasion the head answer. 
it be. mr. king do not love mr. lidgett. it should have be a rat. but but i hate to plead it it s the lad s first offence. 
could you have damn him more completely king. 
hm. what be the penalty. say king in retreat but keep up a rear guard action. 
only my usual few line of virgil to be show up by tea time. 
the head s eye turn slightly to that end of the corridor where mullins captain of the game. pot old pot or potiphar mullins. be pin up the usual wednesday notice big middle and little side football a to k l to z to. p. m. 
you cannot write out the head s usual few. which mean five hundred. latin line and play football for one hour and three quarter between the hour of. and p. m. winton have evidently no intention of try to do so for he hang about the corridor with a set face and an uneasy foot. yet it be law in the school compare with which that of the medes and persian be no more than a non committal resolution that any boy outside the first fifteen who miss his football for any reason whatever and have not a write excuse duly sign by competent authority to explain his absence would receive not le than three stroke with a grind ash from the captain of the game generally a youth between seventeen and eighteen year rarely under eleven stone. pot be near thirteen. and always in hard condition. 
king know without inquiry that the head have give winton no such excuse. 
but he be practically a member of the first fifteen. he ha play for it all this term say king. i believe his cap should have arrive last week. 
his cap ha not be give him. officially therefore he be naught. i rely on old pot. 
but mullins be winton s study mate king persist. 
pot mullins and pater winton be cousin and rather close friend. 
that will make no difference to mullins or winton if i know em say the head. 
but but king play his last card desperately i be go to recommend winton for extra sub prefect in my house now carton ha go. 
certainly say the head. why not. he will be excellent by tea time i hope. 
at that moment they saw mr. lidgett trip down the corridor waylay by winton. 
it s about that mouse business at mechanical draw winton open swing across his path. 
yes yes highly disgraceful mr. lidgett pant. 
i know it be say winton. it it be a cad s trick because. 
because you know i couldn t give you more than fifty line say mr. lidgett. 
well anyhow i ve come to apologise for it. 
certainly say mr. lidgett and add for he be a kindly man i think that show quite right feel. i ll tell the head at once i m satisfy. 
no no. the boy s still unmended voice jump from the growl to the squeak. i didn t mean that. i i do it on principle. please don t er do anything of that kind. 
mr. lidgett look him up and down and be an artist understand. 
thank you winton he say. this shall be between ourselves. 
you hear. say king indecent pride in his voice. 
of course. you think he be go to get lidgett to beg him off the impot. 
king deny this with so much warmth that the head laugh and king go away in a huff. 
by the way say the head i ve tell winton to do his line in your form room not in his study. 
thank say king over his shoulder for the head s order have save winton and mullins who be do extra army work in the study from an embarrass afternoon together. 
an hour late king wander into his still form room a though by accident. winton be hard at work. 
aha. say king rub his hand. this doe not look like game winton. don t let me arrest your facile pen. whence this sudden love for virgil. 
impot from the head sir for that mouse business this morning. 
rumour thereof have reach u. that be a lapse on your part into low thirdery which i don t quite understand. 
the tump tump of the puntabouts before the side settle to game come through the open window. winton like his house master love fresh air. then they hear paddy vernon sub prefect on duty call the roll in the field and mark defaulter. winton write steadily. king curl himself up on a desk hand round knee. one would have say that the man be gloat over the boy s misfortune but the boy understand. 
dis te minorem quod geris imperas_ king quote presently. it be necessary to bear oneself a low than the local god even than draw master who be preclude from effective retaliation. i do wish you d try that mouse game with me pater. 
winton grin. then sober it be a cad s trick sir to play on mr. lidgett. he peer forward at the page he be copy. 
well the sin i impute to each frustrate ghost king stop himself. why do you goggle like an owl. hand me the mantuan and i ll dictate. no matter. any rich virgilian measure will serve. i may peradventure recall a few. he begin. 
tu regere imperio populos romane memento hae tibi erunt artes pacisque imponere morem parcere subjectis et debellare superbos. 
there you have it all winton. write that out twice and yet once again. 
for the next forty minute with never a glance at the book king pay out the glorious hexameter. and king could read latin a though it be alive. winton haul them in and coil them away behind him a trimmer in a telegraph ship s hold coil away deep sea cable. king break from the aeneid to the georgics and back again pause now and then to translate some specially love line or to dwell on the treble shoot texture of the ancient fabric. he do not allude to the come interview with mullins except at the last when he say i think at this juncture pater i need not ask you for the precise significance of atqui sciebat quae sibi barbarus tortor. 
the ungrateful winton flush angrily and king loaf out to take five o clock call over after which he invite little hartopp to tea and a talk on chlorine gas. hartopp accept the challenge like a bantam and the two go up to king s study about the same time a winton return to the form room beneath it to finish his line. 
then half a dozen of the second fifteen who should have be wash stroll in to condole with pater winton whose misfortune and it consequence be common talk. no one be more sincere than the long red head knotty knuckle paddy vernon but be a careless animal he joggle winton s desk. 
curse you for a silly as. say winton. don t do that. 
no one be expect to be polite while under punishment so vernon sink his sub prefectship reply peacefully enough. 
well don t be wrathy pater. 
i m not say winton. get out. this ain t your house form room. 
form room don t belong to you. why don t you go to your own study. vernon reply. 
because mullins be there waitin for the victim say stalky delicately and they all laugh. you ought to have shake that mouse out of your trouser leg pater. that s the way i do in my youth. pater s revertin to his second childhood. never mind pater we all respect you and your future caree ah. 
winton still writhe growl. vernon lean on the desk somehow shake it again. then he laugh. 
what be you grin at. winton ask. 
i be only thinkin of you be send up to take a lickin from pot. i swear i don t think it s fair. you ve never shirk a game in your life and you re a good a in the first fifteen already. your cap ought to have be deliver last week oughtn t it. 
it be law in the school that no man could by any mean enjoy the privilege and immunity of the first fifteen till the black velvet cap with the gold tassel make by dilatory exeter outfitter have be actually set on his head. age ago a large build and unruly second fifteen have attempt to change this law but the prefect of that age be still large and the lively experiment have never be repeat. 
will you say winton very slowly kindly mind your own damn business you curse clumsy fat head fool. 
the form room be a silent a the empty field in the darkness outside. vernon shift his foot uneasily. 
well i shouldn t like to take a lickin from pot he say. 
wouldn t you. winton ask a he page the sheet of line with hand that shake. 
no i shouldn t say vernon his freckle grow more distinct on the bridge of his white nose. 
well i m go to take it winton move clear of the desk a he speak. but you re go to take a lickin from me first. before any one realise it he have fling himself neigh against vernon. no decency be observe on either side and the rest look on amaze. the two meet confusedly vernon try to do what he could with his long reach. winton insensible to blow only concern to drive his enemy into a corner and batter him to pulp. this he manage over against the fire place where vernon drop half stun. now i m go to give you your lickin say winton. lie there till i get a grind ash and i ll cut you to piece. if you move i ll chuck you out of the window. he wind his hand into the boy s collar and waistband and have actually heave him half off the grind before the others with one accord drop on his head shoulder and leg. he fight them crazily in an awful hiss silence. stalky s sensitive nose be rub along the floor. beetle receive a jolt in the wind that send him whistle and crow against the wall. perowne s forehead be cut and malpass come out with an eye that explain itself like a die rainbow through a whole week. 
mad. quite mad. say stalky and for the third time wriggle back to winton s throat. the door open and king come in hartopp s little figure just behind him. the mound on the floor pant and heave but do not rise for winton still squirm vengefully. only a little play sir say perowne. only hit my head against a form. this be quite true. 
oh say king. dimovit obstantes propinquos. you i presume be the populus delay winton s return to mullins eh. 
no sir say stalky behind his claret colour handkerchief. we re the maerentes amicos. 
not bad. you see some of it stick after all king chuckle to hartopp and the two master leave without further inquiry. 
the boy sit still on the now passive winton. 
well say stalky at last of all the putrid he ass pater you be the. 
i m sorry. i m awfully sorry winton begin and they let him rise. he hold out his hand to the bruise and bewilder vernon. sorry paddy. i i must have lose my temper. i i don t know what s the matter with me. 
fat lot of good that ll do my face at tea vernon grunt. why couldn t you say there be something wrong with you instead of lam out like a lunatic. be my lip puffy. 
just a trifle. look at my beak. well we get all these pretty mark at footer owin to the zeal with which we play the game say stalky dust himself. but d you think you re fit to be let loose again pater. sure you don t want to kill another sub prefect. i wish i be pot. i d cut your sprightly young soul out. 
i s pose i ought to go to pot now say winton. 
and let all the other ass see you lookin like this. not much. we ll all come up to number five study and wash off in hot water. beetle you aren t damage. go along and light the gas stave. 
there s a tin of cocoa in my study somewhere perowne shout after him. rootle round till you find it and take it up. 
separately by different road vernon s jersey pull half over his head the boy repair to number five study. little hartopp and king i be sorry to say lean over the banister of king s land and watch. 
ve ry human say little hartopp. your virtuous winton have get himself into trouble take it out of my poor old paddy. i wonder what precise lie paddy will tell about his face. 
but surely you aren t go to embarrass him by ask. say king. 
your boy win say hartopp. 
to go back to what we be discuss say king quickly do you pretend that your modern system of inculcate unrelated fact about chlorine for instance all of which may be prove fallacy by the time the boy grow up can have any real bear on education even the low type of it that examiner expect. 
i maintain nothing. but be it any bad than your chinese reiteration of uncomprehended syllable in a dead tongue. 
dead forsooth. king fairly dance. the only live tongue on earth. chinese. on my word hartopp. 
and at the end of seven year how often have i say it. hartopp go on seven year of two hundred and twenty day of six hour each your victim go away with nothing absolutely nothing except perhaps if they ve be very attentive a dozen no i ll grant you twenty one score of totally unrelated latin tag which any child of twelve could have absorb in two term. 
but but can t you realise that if our system bring late at any rate at a pinch a simple understand grammar and latinity apart a mere glimpse of the significance. foul word. of we ll say one ode of horace one twenty line of virgil we ve get what we poor devil of usher be strive after. 
and what might that be. say hartopp. 
balance proportion perspective life. your scientific man be the unrelated animal the beast without background. haven t you ever realise that in your atmosphere of stink. 
meantime you make them lose life for the sake of live eh. 
blind again hartopp. i tell you about paddy s quotation this morning. but he make probrosis a verb he do. you yourself hear young corkran s reference to maerentes amicos. it stick a little of it stick among the barbarian. 
absolutely and essentially chinese say little hartopp who alone of the common room refuse to be outface by king. but i don t yet understand how paddy come to be lick by winton. paddy s suppose to be something of a boxer. 
beware of vinegar make from honey king reply. pater like some other people be patient and long suffer but he ha his limit. the head be oppress him damnably too. a i point out the boy ha practically be in the first fifteen since term begin. 
but my dear fellow i ve know you give a boy an impot and refuse him leave off game again and again. 
ah but that be when there be real need to get at some oaf who couldn t be sensitise in any other way. now in our esteem head s action i see nothing but. 
the conversation from this point doe not concern u. 
meantime winton very penitent and especially polite towards vernon be be cheer with cocoa in number five study. they have some difficulty in stem the flood of his apology. he himself point out to vernon that he have attack a sub prefect for no reason whatever and therefore deserve official punishment. 
i can t think what be the matter with me to day he mourn. ever since that blast mouse business. 
well then don t think say stalky. or do you want paddy to make a row about it before all the school. 
here vernon be understand to say that he would see winton and all the school somewhere else. 
and if you imagine perowne and malpass and me be goin to give evidence at a prefect meet just to soothe your beastly conscience you jolly well err say beetle. i know what you do. 
what. croak pater out of the valley of his humiliation. 
you go berserk. i ve read all about it in hypatia. 
what s go berserk. winton ask. 
never you mind be the reply. now don t you feel awfully weak and seedy. 
i be rather tire say winton sigh. 
that s what you ought to be. you ve go berserk and pretty soon you ll go to sleep. but you ll probably be liable to fit of it all your life beetle conclude. shouldn t wonder if you murder some one some day. 
shut up you and your berserk. say stalky. go to mullins now and get it over pater. 
i call it filthy unjust of the head say vernon. anyhow you ve give me my lickin old man. i hope pot ll give you yours. 
i m awfully sorry awfully sorry be winton s last word. 
it be the custom in that consulship to deal with game defaulter between five o clock call over and tea. mullins who be old enough to pity do not believe in let boy wait through the night till the chill of the next morning for their punishment. he be finish off the last of the small fry and their excuse when winton arrive. 
but please mullins this be babcock tertius a dear little twelve year old mother s darling i have an awful hack on the knee. i ve be to the matron about it and she give me some iodine. i ve be rub it in all day. i think that would be an excuse off. 
let s have a look at it say the impassive mullins. that s a shin bruise about a week old. touch your toe. i ll give you the iodine. 
babcock yell loudly a he have many time before. the face of jevons age eleven a new boy that dark wet term low in the house low in the low school and low of all in his home sick little mind turn white at the horror of the sight. they could hear his work lip part stickily a babcock wail his way out of hear. 
hullo jevons. what bring you here. say mullins. 
pl ease sir i go for a walk with babcock tertius. 
do you. then i bet you go to the tuck shop and you pay didn t you. 
a nod. jevons be too terrify to speak. 
of course and i bet babcock tell you that old pot ud let you off because it be the first time. 
another nod with a ghost of a smile in it. 
all right. mullins pick jevons up before he could guess what be come lay him on the table with one hand with the other give him three emphatic spank then hold him high in air. 
now you tell babcock tertius that he s get you a lick from me and see you jolly well pay it back to him. and when you re prefect of game don t you let any one shirk his footer without a write excuse. where d you play in your game. 
forward sir. 
you can do good than that. i ve see you run like a young buck rabbit. ask dickson from me to try you a three quarter next game will you. cut along. 
jevons leave warm for the first time that day enormously set up in his own esteem and very hot against the deceitful babcock. 
mullins turn to winton. your name s on the list pater. winton nod. 
i know it. the head land me with an impot for that mouse business at mechanical draw. no excuse. 
he mean it then. mullins jerk his head delicately towards the grind ash on the table. i hear something about it. 
winton nod. a rotten thing to do he say. can t think what i be do ever to do it. it count against a fellow so. and there s some more too. 
all right pater. just stand clear of our photo bracket will you. 
the little formality over there be a pause. winton swing round yawn in pot s astonish face and stagger towards the window seat. 
what s the matter with you dick. ill. 
no. perfectly all right thank. only only a little sleepy. winton stretch himself out and then and there fell deeply and placidly asleep. 
it isn t a faint say the experience mullins or his pulse wouldn t act. tisn t a fit or he d snort and twitch. it can t be sunstroke this term and he hasn t be over train for anything. he open winton s collar pack a cushion under his head throw a rug over him and sit down to listen to the regular breathe. before long stalky arrive on pretence of borrow a book. he look at the window seat. 
notice anything wrong with winton lately. say mullins. 
notice anything wrong with my beak. stalky reply. pater go berserk after call over and fell on a lot of u for jest with him about his impot. you ought to see malpass s eye. 
you mean that pater fight. say mullins. 
like a devil. then he nearly go to sleep in our study just now. i expect he ll be all right when he wake up. rummy business. conscientious old bargee. you ought to have hear his apology. 
but pater can t fight one little bite mullins repeat. 
twasn t fight. he just try to murder every one. stalky describe the affair and when he leave mullins go off to take counsel with the head who out of a cloud of blue smoke tell him that all would yet be well. 
winton say he be a little stiff in his moral joint. he ll get over that. if he ask you whether to day s do will count against him in his. 
but you know it s important to him sir. his people aren t very well off say mullins. 
that s why i m take all this trouble. you must reassure him pot. i have overcrowd him with new experience. oh by the way ha his cap come. 
it come at dinner sir. mullins laugh. 
sure enough when he wake at tea time winton propose to take mullins all through every one of his day s lapse from grace and do you think it will count against me. say he. 
don t you fuss so much about yourself and your silly career say mullins. you re all right. and oh here s your first cap at last. shove it up on the bracket and come on to tea. 
they meet king on their way step statelily and rub his hand. i have apply say he for the service of an additional sub prefect in carton s unlamented absence. your name winton seem to have find favour with the power that be and and all thing consider i be dispose to give my support to the nomination. you be therefore a quasi lictor. 
then it didn t count against me winton gasp a soon a they be out of hear. 
a captain of game can jest with a sub prefect publicly. 
you utter as. say mullins and catch him by the back of his stiff neck and run him down to the hall where the sub prefect who sit below the salt make him welcome with the economical bloater paste of mid term. 
king and little hartopp be spar in the reverend john gillett s study at p. m. classical versus modern a usual. 
character proportion background snarl king. that be the essence of the humanity. 
analects of confucius little hartopp answer. 
time say the reverend john behind the soda water. you men oppress me. hartopp what do you say to paddy in your dormitory to night. even you couldn t have overlook his face. 
but i do say hartopp calmly. i wasn t even humorous about it a some cleric might have be. i go straight through and say naught. 
poor paddy. now for my part say king and you know i be not lavish in my praise i consider winton a first class type. absolutely first class. 
ha ardly say the reverend john. first class of the second class i admit. the very best type of second class but he shake his head it should have be a rat. pater ll never be anything more than a colonel of engineer. 
what do you base that verdict on. say king stiffly. 
he come to me after prayer with all his conscience. 
poor old pater. be it the mouse. say little hartopp. 
that and what he call his uncontrollable temper and his responsibility a sub prefect. 
and you. 
if we have have what be vulgarly call a pi jaw he d have have hysteric. so i recommend a dose of epsom salt. he ll take it too conscientiously. don t eat me king. perhaps he ll be a k. c. b. 
ten o clock strike and the army class boy in the further study come to their house after an hour s extra work pass along the gravel path below. some one be chant to the tune of white sand and grey sand dis te minorem quod geris imperas. he stop outside mullins study. they hear mullins window slide up and then stalky s voice. 
ah. good even mullins my barbarus tortor. we re the wait. we have come to inquire after the local berserk. be he doin a well a can be expect in his new caree ah. 
good than you will in a sec stalky mullins grunt. 
glad of that. we think he d like to know that paddy ha be carry to the sick house in ravin delirium. they think it s concussion of the brain. 
why he be all right at prayer winton begin earnestly and they hear a laugh in the background a mullins slam down the window. 
night regulus stalky sing out and the light footstep go on. 
you see. it stick. a little of it stick among the barbarian say king. 
amen say the reverend john. go to bed. 
a translation. 
horace bk. v. ode. 
there be whose study be of smell and to attentive school rehearse how something mix with something else make something bad. 
some cultivate in broth impure the client of our body these increase without venus cure or cause disease. 
others the heat wheel extol and all it offspring whose concern be how to make it farthest roll and fast turn. 
me much incurious if the hour present or to be pay for bring me to brundusium by the power of wheel or wing. 
me in whose breast no flame hath burn life long save that by pindar light such lore leaf cold. i be not turn aside to it. 
more than when sink in think profound of what the unaltering god require my steward. friend but slave. bring round log for my fire. 
the edge of the even. 

ah. what avail the classic bend and what the choose word against the undoctored incident that actually occur. 
and what be art whereto we press through paint and prose and rhyme when nature in her nakedness defeat u every time. 
hi. hi. hold your horse. stop. well. well. a lean man in a sable line overcoat leap from a private car and bar my way up pall mall. you don t know me. you re excusable. i wasn t wear much of anything last time we meet in south africa. 
the scale fell from my eye and i saw him once more in a sky blue army shirt behind barb wire among dutch prisoner bath at simonstown more than a dozen year ago[ ]. why it s zigler laughton o. zigler. i cry. well i be glad to see you. 
[footnote. the captive. traffic and discovery. ]. 
oh no. you don t work any of your english on me. so glad to see you doncher know an ta ta. do you reside in this village. 
no. i m up here buy store. 
then you take my automobile. where to. oh i know them. my lord marshalton be one of the director. pigott drive to the army and navy cooperative supply association limit victoria street westminister. 
he settle himself on the deep dive colour pneumatic cushion and his smile be like the turn on of all the electric. his teeth be white than the ivory fitting. he smelt of rare soap and cigarette such cigarette a he hand me from a golden box with an automatic light. on my side of the car be a gold mount mirror card and toilette case. i look at him inquiringly. 
yes he nod two year after i quit the cape. she s not an ohio girl though. she s in the country now. be that right. she s at our little place in the country. we ll go there a soon a you re through with your grocery list. engagement. the only engagement you ve get be to grab your grip get your bag from your hotel i mean and come right along and meet her. you be the captive of my bow and spear now. 
i surrender i say meekly. do the zigler automatic gun do all this. i point to the car fitting. 
psha. think of your rememberin that. well no. the zigler be a great gun the great ever but life s too short an too interestin to squander on push her in military society. i ve lease my right in her to a pennsylvanian transylvanian citizen full of mentality and moral uplift. if those thing weigh with the chancellery of europe he will make good and i shall be surprise. excuse me. 
he bar his head a we pass the statue of the great queen outside buckingham palace. 
a very great lady. say he. i have enjoy her hospitality. she represent one of the most wonderful institution in the world. the next be the one we be go to. mr. zigler us em and they break her up every week on return empty. 
oh you mean the store. i say. 
mr. zigler mean it more. they be quite ambassadorial in their outlook. i guess i ll wait outside and pray while you wrestle with em. 
my business at the store finish and my bag retrieve from the hotel his move palace slide u into the country. 
i owe it to you zigler begin a smoothly a the car to tell you what i be now. i represent the business end of the american invasion. not the blame car themselves i wouldn t be find dead in one but the tool that make em. i be the zigler high speed tool and lathe trust. the trust sir be entirely my own in my own invention. i be the renzalaer ten cylinder aërial the light aeroplane engine on the market one price one power one guarantee. i be the orlebar paper welt pulp panel company for aeroplane body. and i be the rush silencer for military aeroplane absolutely silent which the continent lease under royalty. with three exception the british aren t wise to it yet. that s all i represent at present. you saw me take off my hat to your late queen. i owe every cent i have to that great an good lady. yes sir i come out of africa after my eighteen month rest cure and open air treatment and sea bath a her prisoner of war like a giant refresh. there wasn t anything could hold me when i d get my hook into it after that experience. and to you a a representative british citizen i say here and now that i regard you a the founder of the family fortune tommy s and mine. 
but i only give you some paper and tobacco. 
what more doe any citizen need. the cullinan diamond wouldn t have help me a much then. an talk about south africa tell me. 
we talk about south africa till the car stop at the georgian lodge of a great park. 
we ll get out here. i want to show you a rather sightly view say zigler. 
we walk perhaps half a mile across timber dot turf past a lake enter a dark rhododendron plant wood tick with the noise of pheasant foot and come out suddenly where five ride meet at a small classic temple between lichened stucco statue which face a circle of turf several acre in extent. irish yew of a size that i have never see before wall the sunless circle like cliff of rive obsidian except at the low end where it give on to a stretch of undulate bare grind end in a timbered slope half a mile away. 
that s where the old marshalton race course use to be say zigler. that ice house be call flora s temple. nell gwynne and mr. siddons an taglioni an all that crowd use to act play here for king george the third. wasn t it. well george be the only king i play. let it go at that. this circle be the stage i guess. the king an the nobility sit in flora s temple. i forget who sculped these statue at the door. they re the comic and tragic muse. but it s a sightly view ain t it. 
the sunlight be leave the park. i catch a glint of silver to the southward beyond the wooded ridge. 
that s the ocean the channel i mean say zigler. it s twenty three mile a a man fly. a sightly view ain t it. 
i look at the severe yew the dumb yell mouth of the two statue at the blue green shadow on the unsunned grass and at the still bright plain in front where some deer be feed. 
it s a most dramatic contrast but i think it would be good on a summer s day i say and we go on up one of the noiseless ride a quarter of a mile at least till we come to the porticoed front of an enormous georgian pile. four footman reveal themselves in a hall hang with picture. 
i hire this off of my lord marshalton zigler explain while they help u out of our coat under the severe eye of ruff and periwigged ancestor. ya a. they always look at me too a if i d blow in from the gutter. which of course i have. that s mary lady marshalton. old man joshua paint her. do you see any liken to my lord marshalton. why haven t you ever meet up with him. he be captain mankeltow my royal british artillery captain that blow up my gun in the war an then try to bury me against my religious principles[ ]. ya a. his father die and he get the lordship. that be about all he get by the time that your british death duty be through with him. so he say i d oblige him by hire his ranch. it s a hell an a half of a proposition to handle but tommy mr. laughton understand it. come right in to the parlour and be very welcome. 
[footnote. the captive. traffic and discovery. ]. 
he guide me hand on shoulder into a babble of high pitch talk and laughter that fill a vast draw room. he introduce me a the founder of the family fortune to a little lithe dark eye woman whose speech and greet be of the soft lipped south. she in turn present me to her mother a black browed snowy haired old lady with a cap of priceless venetian point hand that must have hold many heart in their time and a dignity a unquestioned and unquestioning a an empress. she be indeed a burton of savannah who on their own grind out rank the lee of virginia. the rest of the company come from buffalo cincinnati cleveland and chicago with here and there a soften southern strain. a party of young folk pop corn beneath a mantelpiece surmount by a gainsborough. two portly men half hide by a case harp discuss over sheaf of typewrite document the term of some contract. a knot of matron talk servant irish versus german across the grand piano. a youth ravage an old bookcase while beside him a tall girl star at the portrait of a woman of many love dead three hundred year but now leap to life and warn under the shade frame light. in a corner half a dozen girl examine the glaze table that hold the decoration english and foreign of the late lord marshalton. 
see heah. would this be the ordeh of the gyartah. one say point. 
i presoom likely. no. the garter ha _honey swore_ i know that much. this be tria juncta something. 
oh what s that cunning little copper cross with for valurr. a third cry. 
say. look at here. say the young man at the bookcase. here s a first edition of handley cross and a beewick s bird right next to it just like so many best seller. look maidie. 
the girl beneath the picture half turn her body but not her eye. 
you don t tell me. she say slowly. their woman amount to something after all. 
but woman s scope and outlook be vurry limmutted in those day one of the matron put in from the piano. 
limmutted. for her. if they whurr i guess she be the limmut. who be she. peter whurr s the cat log. 
a thin butler in charge of two footman remove the tea battery slide to a table and hand her a blue and qilt book. he be button hole by one of the men behind the harp who wish to get a telephone call through to edinburgh. 
the local office shut at six say peter. but i can get through to he name some town in ten minute sir. 
that suit me. you ll find me here when you ve hitch up. oh say peter. we mister olpherts an me ain t goin by that early morning train to morrow but the other one on the other line whatever they call it. 
the nine twenty seven sir. yes sir. early breakfast will be at half past eight and the car will be at the door at nine. 
peter. an imperious young voice call. what s the matteh with lord marshalton s ordeh of the gyartah. we cyan t find it anyweah. 
well miss i have hear that that order be usually return to his majesty on the death of the holder. yes miss. then in a whisper to a footman more butter for the pop corn in king charles s corner. he stop behind my chair. your room be number eleven sir. may i trouble you for your key. 
he leave the room with a six year old maiden call alice who have announce she would not go to bed le peter peter punkin eater take me so there. 
he very kindly look in on me for a moment a i be dress for dinner. not at all sir he reply to some compliment i pay him. i valet the late lord marshalton for fifteen year. he be very abrupt in his movement sir. a a rule i never receive more than an hour s notice of a journey. we use to go to syria frequently. i have be twice to babylon. mr. and mr. zigler s requirement be comparatively speak few. 
but the guest. 
very little out of the ordinary a soon a one know their ordinary. extremely simple if i may say so sir. 
i have the privilege of take mr. burton in to dinner and be reward with an entirely new and to me rather shock view of abraham lincoln who she say have waste the heritage of his land by blood and fire and have surrender the remnant to alien. my brother suh she say fell at gettysburg in order that armenian should colonise new england to day. if i take any interest in any dam yankee outside of my son in law laughton yondah i should say that my brother s death have be amply avenge. 
the man at her right take up the challenge and the war spread. her eye twinkle over the flame she have light. 
don t these folk she say a little late remind you of arab picnic under the pyramid. 
i ve never see the pyramid i reply. 
hm. i didn t know you be a english a all that. and when i laugh be you. 
always. it save trouble. 
now that s just what i find so significant among the english this be alice s mother i think with one elbow well forward among the salt almond. oh i know how you feel madam burton but a northerner like myself i m buffalo even though we come over every year notice the desire for comfort in england. there s so little conflict or uplift in british society. 
but we like be comfortable i say. 
i know it. it s very characteristic. but ain t it a little just a little lack in adaptability an imagination. 
they haven t any need for adaptability madam burton strike in. they haven t any elli island standard to live up to. 
but we can assimilate the buffalo woman charge on. 
now you have do it. i whisper to the old lady a the bless word assimilation wake up all the old argument for and against. 
there be not a dull moment in that dinner for me nor afterwards when the boy and girl at the piano play the rag time tune of their own land while their elder inexhaustibly interest replunged into the discussion of that land s future till there be talk of coon can. when all the company have be set to table zigler lead me into his book line study where i notice he keep his golf club and speak simply a a child gravely a a bishop of the year that be past since our last meet. 
that s about all i guess up to date he say when he have unroll the bright map of his fortune across three continent. bein rich suit me. so doe your country sir. my own country. you hear what that detroit man say at dinner. a government of the alien by the alien for the alien. mother s right too. lincoln kill u. from the high motif but he kill u. oh say that remind me. j ever kill a man from the high motif. 
not from any motive a far a i remember. 
well i have. it don t weigh on my mind any but it be interest. life be interest for a rich for any man in england. ya a. life in england be like settin in the front row at the theatre and never knowin when the whole blame drama win t spill itself into your lap. i didn t always know that. i lie abed now and i blush to think of some of the break i make in south africa. about the british. not your official method of doin business. but the spirit. i be way way off on the spirit. be you acquaint with any other country where you d have to kill a man or two to get at the national spirit. 
well i answer next to marry one of it woman kill one of it men make for pretty close intimacy with any country. i take it you kill a british citizen. 
why no. our syndicate confine it operation to alien dam fool alien. j ever know an english lord call lundie[ ]. look like a frame food and soap advertisement. i imagine he be in your supreme court before he come into his lordship. 
[footnote. the puzzler. action and reaction. ]. 
he be a lawyer what we call a law lord a judge of appeal not a real hereditary lord. 
that s a much beyond me a this. zigler slap a fat debrett on the table. but i presoom this unreal law lord lundie be kind o real in his decision. i judge so. and one more question. ever meet a man call walen. 
d you mean burton walen the editor of. i mention the journal. 
that s him. look like a tough talk like a maxim and train with king. 
he doe i say. burton walen know all the crown head of europe intimately. it s his hobby. 
well there s the whole outfit for you exceptin my lord marshalton né mankeltow an me. all active murderer specially the law lord or accessory after the fact. and what do they hand you out for that_ in this country. 
twenty year i believe be my reply. 
he reflect a moment. 
no o o he say and follow it with a smoke ring. twenty month at the cape be my limit. say murder ain t the soul shatterin event those nature faker in the magazine make out. it develop naturally like any other proposition. say j ever play this golf game. it s come up in the state from maine to california an we re prodoocin all the champion in sight. not a business man s play but interestin. i ve get a golf link in the park here that they tell me be the fine inland course ever. i have to pay extra for that when i hire the ranche last year. it be just before i sign the paper that our murder eventuate. my lord marshalton he ask me down for the week end to fix up something or other about peter and the linen i think twas. mr. zigler take a holt of the proposition. she understand peter from the word go. there wasn t any house party. only fifteen or twenty folk. a full house be thirty two tommy tell me. guess we must be near on that to night. in the smoke room here my lord marshalton mankeltow that be introduce me to this walen man with the nose. he d be in the war too from start to finish. he know all the column and general that i d battle with in the day of my zigler gun. we kind fell into each other s arm an let the harsh world go by for a while. 
walen he introduce me to your lord lundie. he be a new proposition to me. if he hadn t be a lawyer he d have make a lovely cattle king. i think i have play poker some. another of my break. ya a. it cost me eleven hundred dollar besides what tommy say when i retire. i have no fault to find with your hereditary aristocracy or your judiciary or your press. 
sunday we all go to church across the park here. psha. think o your rememberin my religion. i ve become an episcopalian since i marry. ya a. after lunch walen do his crown head of europe stunt in the smokin room here. he be long on king. and continental crisis. i do not pretend to follow british domestic politics but in the aeroplane business a man ha to know something of international possibility. at present you british be settin in kimonoes on dynamite keg. walen s talk put me wise on the location and size of some of the keg. ya a. 
after that we four go out to look at those golf link i be hirin. we each take a club. mine he glance at a great tan bag by the fire place be the beginner s friend the cleek. well sir this golf proposition take a holt of me a quick a quick a death. they have to prise me off the green when it get too dark to see and then we go back to the house. i be walkin ahead with my lord marshalton talkin beginner golf. i be the man who ought to have be kill by right. we cut cross lot through the wood to flora s temple that place i show you this afternoon. lundie and walen be maybe twenty or thirty rod behind u in the dark. marshalton and i stop at the theatre to admire at the ancestral yew tree. he take me right under the big king somebody s yew and while i be spannin it with my handkerchief he say look heah. just a if it be a rabbit and down come a bi plane into the theatre with no more noise than the dead. my rush silencer be the only one on the market that allow that sort of gumshoe work. what. a bi plane with two men in it. both men jump out and start fussin with the engine. i be start to tell mankeltow i can t remember to call him marshalton any more that it look a if the royal british fly corp have get on to my rush silencer at last. but he step out from under the yew to these two stealthy steves and say what s the trouble. can i be of any service. he think so do i twas some of the boy from aldershot or salisbury. well sir from there on the situation develop like a motion picture in hell. the man on the nigh side of the machine whirl round pull his gun and fire into mankeltow s face. i lay him out with my cleek automatically. any one who shoot a friend of mine get what s comin to him if i m within reach. he drop. mankeltow rub his neck with his handkerchief. the man the far side of the machine start to run. lundie down the ride or it might have be walen shout what s happen. mankeltow say collar that chap. 
the second man run ring a ring o rose round the machine one hand reachin behind him. mankeltow head him off to me. he break blind for walen and lundie who be runnin up the ride. there s some sort of mix up among em which it s too dark to see and a thud. walen say oh well collar. lundie say that s the only thing i never learn at harrow. mankeltow run up to em still rubbin his neck and say _he didn t fire at me. it be the other chap. where be he. 
i ve stretch him alongside his machine i say. 
be they poacher. say lundie. 
no. airman. i can t make it out say mankeltow. 
look at here say walen kind of brusque. this man ain t breathin at all. didn t you hear somethin crack when he light lundie. 
my god. say lundie. do i. i think it be my suspender no he say brace. 
right there i leave them and sort o tiptoe back to my man hopin he d revive and quit. but he hadn t. that darn cleek have hit him on the back of the neck just where his helmet stop. he d get his. i know it by the way the head roll in my hand. then the others come up the ride totin their load. no mistakin that shuffle on grass. d you remember it in south africa. ya a. 
hsh. say lundie. do you know i ve break this man s neck. 
same here i say. 
what. both. say mankeltow. 
nonsense. say lord lundie. who d have think he be that out of train. a man oughtn t to fly if he ain t fit. 
what do they want here anyway. say walen. and mankeltow say we can t leave them in the open. some one ll come. carry em to flora s temple. 
we tot em again and lay em out on a stone bench. they be still dead in spite of our best attention. we know it but we go through the motion till it be quite dark. wonder if all murderer do that. we want a light on this say walen after a spell. there ought to be one in the machine. why didn t they light it. 
we come out of flora s temple and shut the door behind u. some star be show then same a when cain do his little act i guess. i climb up and search the machine. she be very well equip i find two electric torch in clip alongside her barometer by the rear seat. 
what make be she. say mankeltow. 
continental renzalaer i say. my engine and my rush silencer. 
walen whistle. here let me look he say and grab the other torch. she be sure well equip. we gather up an armful of camera an map an note book an an album of mount photograph which we take to flora s temple and spread on a marble top table. i ll show you to morrow. which the king of naples have present to grandfather marshalton. walen start to go through em. we want to know why our friend have be so prejudice against our society. 
wait a minute say lord lundie. lend me a handkerchief. 
he pull out his own and walen contribute his green and red bandanna and lundie cover their face. now he say we ll go into the evidence. 
there wasn t any flaw in that evidence. walen read out their last observation and mankeltow ask question and lord lundie sort o summarise and i look at the photo in the album. j ever see a bird s eye telephoto survey of england for military purpose. it s interestin but indecent like turnin a man upside down. none of those close range panorama of fort could have be take without my rush silencer. 
i wish we be a thorough a they be say mankeltow when walen stop translatin. 
we ve be thorough enough say lord lundie. the evidence against both accuse be conclusive. any other country would give em seven year in a fortress. we should probably give em eighteen month a first class misdemeanants. but their case he say be out of our hand. we must review our own. mr. zigler he say will you tell u what step you take to bring about the death of the first accuse. i tell him. he want to know specially whether i d stretch first accuse before or after he have fire at mankeltow. mankeltow testify he d be shoot at and exhibit his neck a evidence. it be scorch. 
now mr. walen say lord lundie. will you kindly tell u what step you take with regard to the second accuse. 
the man run directly at me me lord say walen. i say oh no you don t and hit him in the face. 
lord lundie lift one hand and uncover second accuse s face. there be a bruise on one cheek and the chin be all green with grass. he be a heavy build man. 
what happen after that. say lord lundie. 
to the best of my remembrance he turn from me towards your lordship. 
then lundie go ahead. i stoop and catch the man round the ankle he say. the sudden check throw him partially over my leave shoulder. i jerk him off that shoulder still hold his ankle and he fell heavily on it would appear the point of his chin death be instantaneous. 
death be instantaneous say walen. 
lord lundie take off his gown and wig you could see him do it and become our fellow murderer. that s our case he say. i know how i should direct the jury but it s an undignified business for a lord of appeal to lift his hand to and some of my learn brother he say might be dispose to be facetious. 
i guess i can t be properly sensitise. any one who steer me out of that trouble might have have the laugh on me for generation. but i m only a millionaire. i say we d good search second accuse in case he d be carryin conceal weapon. 
that certainly be a point say lord lundie. but the question for the jury would be whether i exercise more force than be necessary to prevent him from usin them. i didn t say anything. he wasn t talkin my language. second accuse have his gun on him sure enough but it have jam in his hip pocket. he be too fleshy to reach behind for business purpose and he didn t look a gun man anyway. both of em carry wad of private letter. by the time walen have translate we know how many child the fat one have at home and when the thin one reckon to be marry. too bad. ya a. 
say walen to me while we be rebuttonin their jacket. they be not in uniform. ever read a book call the wreckers_ mr. zigler. 
not that i recall at the present moment i say. 
well do he say. you d appreciate it. you d appreciate it now i assure you. 
i ll remember i say. but i don t see how this song and dance help u any. here s our corps here s their machine and daylight s bind to come. 
heaven. that remind me say lundie. what time s dinner. 
half past eight say mankeltow. it s half past five now. we knock off golf at twenty to and if they hadn t be such silly ass firin pistol like civilian we d have have them to dinner. why they might be sit with u in the smoke room this very minute he say. then he say that no man have a right to take his profession so seriously a these two mountebank. 
how interestin. say lundie. i ve notice this impatient attitude toward their victim in a good many murderer. i never understand it before. of course it s the disposal of the body that annoy em. now i wonder he say who our case will come up before. let s run through it again. 
then walen whirl in. he d be bitin his nail in a corner. we be all nerve up by now. me. the bad of the bunch. i have to think for tommy a well. 
we can t be try say walen. we mustn t be try. it ll make an infernal international stink. what do i tell you in the smoke room after lunch. the tension s at break point already. this ud snap it. can t you see that. 
i be think of the legal aspect of the case say lundie. with a good jury we d likely be acquit. 
acquit. say walen. who d dare acquit u in the face of what ud be demand by the other party. do you ever hear of the war of jenkins ear. ever hear of mason and slidel. ever hear of an ultimatum. you know who these two idiot be. you know who we be a lord of appeal a viscount of the english peerage and me me know all i know which the men who know dam well know that i do know. it s our neck or armageddon. which do you think this government would choose. we can t be try. he say. 
then i expect i ll have to resign me club lundie go on. i don t think that s ever be do before by an ex officio member. i must ask the secretary. i guess he be kind bunker for the minute or maybe twas the lordship comin out on him. 
rot. say mankeltow. walen s right. we can t afford to be try. we ll have to bury them. but my head gardener lock up all the tool at five o clock. 
not on your life. say lundie. he be on deck again a the high class lawyer. right or wrong if we attempt concealment of the body we re do for. 
i m glad of that say mankeltow because after all it ain t cricket to bury em. 
somehow but i know i ain t english that consideration didn t worry me a it ought. an besides i be thinkin i have to an i d begin to see a light way off a little glimmerin light o salvation. 
then what be we to do. say walen. zigler what do you advise. your neck s in it too. 
gentleman i say something lord lundie let fall a while back give me an idea. i move that this committee empower big claus and little claus who have elect to commit suicide in our midst to leave the premise a they come. i m ask you to take big chance i say but they re all we ve get and then i break for the bi plane. 
don t tell me the english can t think a quick a the next man when it s up to them. they lift em out o flora s temple reverent but not wastin time whilst i find out what have bring her down. one cylinder be misfirin. i didn t stop to fix it. my renzalaer will hold up on six. we ve prove that. if her crew have rely on my guarantee they d have be half way home by then instead of takin their seat with hangin head like they be ashamed. they ought to have be ashamed too playin gun men in a british peer s park. i take big chance startin her without control but twas a dead still night an a clear run you saw it across the theatre into the park and i pray she d rise before she hit high timber. i set her all i dare for a quick lift. i tell mankeltow that if i give her too much nose she d be liable to up end and flop. he didn t want another inquest on his estate. no sir. so i have to fix her up in the dark. ya a. 
i take big chance too while those other three hold on to her and i work her up to full power. my renzalaer s no ventilation fan to pull against. but i climb out just in time. i d hitch the signallin lamp to her tail so s we could track her. otherwise with my rush silencer we might s well have shoo an owl out of a barn. she leave just that way when we let her go. no sound except the propeller whoo oo oo. whoo oo oo. there be a dip in the grind ahead. it hide her lamp for a second but there s no such thing a time in real life. then that lamp travel up the far slope slow too slow. then it kind lift we judge. then it sure be liftin. then it lift good. d you know why. our four naked perspirin soul be out there underneath her hikin her heaven high. yes sir. we do it. and that lamp keep liftin and liftin. then she side slip. my god she side slip twice which be what i d be afraid of all along. then she straighten up and go away climbin to glory for that bless star of our hope get small and small till we couldn t track it any more. then we breathe. we hadn t breathe any since their arrival but we didn t know it till we breathe that time all together. then we dig our finger nail out of our palm an come alive again in instalment. 
lundie speak first. we therefore commit their body to the air he say an put his cap on. 
the deep the deep say walen. it s just twenty three mile to the channel. 
poor chap. poor chap. say mankeltow. we d have have em to dinner if they hadn t lose their head. i can t tell you how this distress me laughton. 
well look at here arthur i say. it s only god s own mercy you an me ain t lyin in flora s temple now and if that fat man have know enough to fetch his gun around while he be runnin lord lundie and walen would have be alongside u. 
i see that he say. but we re alive and they re dead don t ye know. 
i know it i say. that s where the dead be always so damn unfair on the survivor. 
i see that too he say. but i d have give a good deal if it hadn t happen poor chap. 
amen. say lundie. then. oh then we sorter walk back two an two to flora s temple an light match to see we hadn t leave anything behind. walen he have confiscate the note book before they leave. there be the first man s pistol which we d forget to return him lyin on the stone bench. mankeltow put his hand on it he never touch the trigger an bein an automatic of course the blame thing jar off spiteful a a rattler. 
look out. they ll have one of u yet say walen in the dark. but they didn t the lord hadn t quit be our shepherd and we hear the bullet zip across the veldt quite like old time. ya a. 
swine. say mankeltow. 
after that i didn t hear any more poor chap talk. me. i never worry about kill my man. i be too busy figurin how a british jury might regard the proposition. i guess lundie felt that way too. 
oh but say. we have an interestin time at dinner. folk be expect whose auto have hang up on the road. they hadn t wire and peter have lay two extra place. we notice em a soon a we sit down. i d hate to say how noticeable they be. mankeltow with his neck bandage. he d catch a relax throat golfin. send for peter and tell him to take those empty place away if you please. it take something to rattle peter. he be rattle that time. nobody else notice anything. and now. 
where do they come down. i ask a he rise. 
in the channel i guess. there be nothing in the paper about em. shall we go into the drawin room and see what these boy and girl be doin. but say ain t life in england inter_es_tin. 
rebirth. 
if any god should say i will restore the world her yesterday whole a before my judgment blast it who would not lift heart eye and hand in passion o er the gift. 
if any god should will to wipe from mind the memory of this ill which be mankind in soul and substance now who would not bless even to tear his love tenderness. 
if any god should give u leave to fly these present death we live and safely die in those lose life we live ere we be bear what man but would not laugh the excuse to scorn. 
for we be what we be so break to blood and the strict work of war so long subdue to sacrifice that threadbare death command hardly observance at our busy hand. 
yet we be what we be and fashion so it plea u to stare at the far show of unbelievable year and shape that flit in our own liken on the edge of it. 
the horse marine. 

the rt. hon. r. b. haldane secretary of state for war[ ] be question in the house of common on april th about the rock horse which the war office be use for the purpose of teach recruit to ride. lord ronaldshay ask the war secretary if rock horse be to be supply to all the cavalry regiment for teach recruit to ride. the noble lord reply mr. haldane be doubtless allude to certain dummy horse on rocker which have be test with very satisfactory result. the mechanical steed be a wooden horse with an astonish tail. it be paint brown and mount on swing rail. the recruit leap into the saddle and pull at the rein while the rid instructor rock the animal to and fro with his foot. the rock horse be be make at woolwich. they be quite cheap. 
daily paper. 
[footnote. now viscount haldane of cloan. ]. 
my instruction to mr. leggatt my engineer have be accurately obey. he be to bring my car on completion of annual overhaul from coventry via london to southampton dock to await my arrival. and very pretty she look under the steamer s side among the railway line at six in the morning. next to her new paint and varnish i be most impress by her four brand new tyre. 
but i didn t order new tyre i say a we move away. these be irresilients too. 
treble rib say leggatt. diamond stud sheathe. 
then there ha be a mistake. 
oh no sir. they re gratis. 
the number of motor manufacturer who give away complete set of treble rib irresilient tyre be so limit that i believe i ask leggatt for an explanation. 
i don t know that i could very well explain sir be the answer. it ud come good from mr. pyecroft. he s on leaf at portsmouth stay with his uncle. his uncle ad the body all night. i d defy you to find a scratch on her even with a microscope. 
then we will go home by the portsmouth road i say. 
and we go at those speed which be allow before the work day begin or the police be thaw out. we be block near portsmouth by a battalion of regular on the move. 
whitsuntide manoeuvre just end say leggatt. they ve have a fortnight in the down. 
he say no more until we be in a narrow street somewhere behind portsmouth town railway station where he slow at a green grocery shop. the door be open and a small old man sit on three potato basket swing his foot over a stoop blue back. 
you call that shinin em. he pip. can you see your face in em yet. no. then shine em or i ll give you a beltin you ll remember. 
if you stop kickin me in the mouth perhaps i d do good say pyecroft s voice meekly. 
we blow the horn. 
pyecroft arise put away the brush and receive u not otherwise than a a king in his own country. 
be you go to leave me up here all day. say the old man. 
pyecroft lift him down and he hobble into the back room. 
it s his corn pyecroft explain. you can t shine corny foot and he hasn t have his breakfast. 
i haven t have mine either i say. 
breakfast for two more uncle pyecroft sing out. 
go out an buy it then be the answer or else it s half ration. 
pyecroft turn to leggatt give him his market order and despatch him with the copper. 
i have get four new tyre on my car i begin impressively. 
yes say mr. pyecroft. you have and i will say he pat my car s bonnet you earn em. 
i want to know why i go on. 
quite justifiable. you haven t notice anything in the paper have you. 
i ve only just land. i haven t see a paper for week. 
then you can lend me a virgin ear. there s be a scandal in the junior service the army i believe they call em. 
a bag of coffee bean pitch on the counter. roast that say the uncle from within. 
pyecroft rig a small coffee roaster while i take down the shutter and sell a young lady in curl paper two bunch of mix green and one soft orange. 
sickly stuff to handle on an empty stomach ain t it. say pyecroft. 
what about my new tyre. i insist. 
oh any amount. but the question be he look at me steadily be this what you might call a court martial or a post mortem inquiry. 
strictly a post mortem say i. 
that be so say pyecroft we can rapidly arrive at fact. last thursday the shutter go behind those basket last thursday at five bell in the forenoon watch otherwise ten thirty a. m. your mr. leggatt be discover on westminster bridge lay his course for the old kent road. 
but that doesn t lead to southampton i interrupt. 
then perhaps he be swing the car for compass. be that a it may we find him in that latitude simultaneous a jules and me be ong route for waterloo to rejoin our respective ship or navy i should say. jules be a permissionaire_ which mean be on leaf same a me from a french cassowary cruiser at portsmouth. a party of her trusty and well beloved petty officer ad be see london chaperon by the r. c. chaplain. jules ad detach himself from the squadron and be cruisin on his own when i join him in company of copious lady friend. but_ mark you your mr. leggatt draw the line at the girl. loud and long he draw it. 
i m glad of that i say. 
you may be. he adopt the puristical formation from the first. yes he say when we be anneal him at but you wouldn t know the pub i be go to southampton he say and i ll stretch a point to go via portsmouth. but_ say he see what sort of one hell of a time invariably trarnspires when we cruise together mr. pyecroft i do not feel myself justify towards my generous and long suffer employer in takin on that kind of ballast a well. i assure you he consider your interest. 
and the girl. i ask. 
oh i leave that to jules. i m a monogomite by nature. so we embark strictly ong garçong. but i should tell you in case he didn t that your mr. leggatt s care for your interest ad extend to sheathe the car in mat and gunny bag to preserve her paint work. she be all swathe up like an i talian baby. 
he be careful about his paint work i say. 
for a man with no service experience i should say he be fair homicidal on the subject. if we d be marine he couldn t have be more point in his allusion to our hob nail sock. however we reduce him to a malleable condition and embark for portsmouth. i d seldom rejoin my vaisseau ong automobile avec a fur coat and goggle. nor ad jules. 
do jules say much. i ask helplessly turn the handle of the coffee roaster. 
that s where i pity the pore beggar. he adn t the language so to speak. he be confine to heaving and shruggin s and copious mong jew. the french be very badly fit with relief valve. and then our mr. leggatt drive. he drive. 
be he in a very malleable condition. 
not him. we recognise the value of his cargo from the outset. he hadn t a chance to get more than moist at the edge. after which we go to sleep. and now we ll go to breakfast. 
we enter the back room where everything be in order and a screech canary make u welcome. the uncle have add sausage and pile of butter toast to the kipper. the coffee clear with a piece of fish skin be a revelation. 
leggatt who seem to know the premise have run the car into the tiny backyard where her mirror like back almost block up the window. he mind shop while we eat. pyecroft pass him his ration through a flap in the door. the uncle order him in after breakfast to wash up and he jump in his gaiter at the old man s command a he ha never jump to mine. 
to resoom the post mortem say pyecroft light his pipe. my slumber be break by the propeller cease to revolve and by vile language from your mr. leggatt. 
i i leggatt begin a blue check duster in one hand and a cup in the other. 
when you re want aft you ll be send for mr. leggatt say pyecroft amiably. it s clean mess deck for you now. resooming once more we be on a lonely and desolate ocean near portsdown surround by gorse bush and a boy scout be stir my stomach with his little copper stick. 
you count ten he say. 
very good boy jones i say count em and i haul him in over the gunnel and ten i give him with my large flat hand. the remark he pass lie face down tryin to bite my leg would have reflect credit on any service. have finish i drop him overboard again which be my gross political error. i ought to ave kill him. because he begin signal rapid and accurate in a sou westerly direction. few equatorial calm be to be apprehend when b. p. s little pet take to signallin. make a note o that. three minute late we be stop and board by scout up our back down our neck and in our boot. the last i hear from your mr. leggatt a he go under brushin em off his cap be thank heaven he d cover up the new paint work with mat. an eroic soul. 
not a scratch on her body say leggatt pour out the coffee ground. 
and jules. say i. 
oh jules think the much advertise social revolution have begin but his mackintosh hamper him. 
you tell me to bring the mackintosh leggatt whisper to me. 
and when i ad em half convince he be a french vicomte come down to visit the commander in chief at portsmouth he try to take it off. see his uniform underneath some suck sherlock holmes of the pink eye patrol. they call him eddy. deduce that i wasn t speak the truth. eddy say i be tryin to sneak into portsmouth unobserved unobserved mark you. and join hand with the enemy. it trarnspired that the scout be conduct a field day against opposin force ably assist by all branch of the service and they be so afraid the car wouldn t count ten point to them in the fray that they d have scalp u but for the intervention of an umpire also in short under drawer. a fleshy sight. 
here mr. pyecroft shut his eye and nod. that umpire he say suddenly be our mr. morshed a gentleman whose acquaintance you have already make and profit by if i mistake not[ ]. 
[footnote. their lawful occasion traffic and discovery. ]. 
oh be the navy in it too. i say. for i have read of wild do occasionally among the boy scout on the portsmouth road in which navy army and the world at large seem to have take part. 
the navy be in it. i be the only one out of it for several second. our mr. morshed fail to recognise me in my fur boa and my appealin wink at im behind your goggle didn t arrive. but when eddy darling have tell his story i salute which be difficult in fur and i state i be bringin him dispatch from the north. my mr. morshed cohere on the instant. i ve never know his ethergram installation out of order yet. go and guard your bless road he say to the fratton orphan asylum stand at attention all round him and when they be remove pyecroft he say still sotte voce_ what in hong kong be you do with this dun colour sampan. 
it be your mr. leggatt s paint protective mat which catch his eye. she do resemble a sampan_ especially about the stern work. at these remark i naturally throw myself on be bosom so far a service condition permit and reveal him all mention that the car be yours. you know his way of work his lip like a rabbit. yes he be quite please. _his car. he keep murmur work his lip like a rabbit. i owe im more than a trifle for thing he write about me. i ll keep the car. 
your mr. leggatt now inject some semi mutinous remark to the effect that he be your chauffeur in charge of your car and a such capable of so act. mr. morshed throw him a glarnce. it suffice. didn t it suffice mr. leggatt. 
i know if something didn t happen something bad would say leggatt. it never fail when you re aboard. 
and jules. i demand. 
jules be so to speak panic in a water tight flat through his unfortunate lack of language. i have to introduce him a part of the entente cordiale_ and he be put under arrest too. then we sit on the grass and smoke while eddy and co. violently annoy the traffic on the portsmouth road till the umpire all in short panty confer on the valuable lesson of the field day and add up point same a at target practice. i didn t hear their conclusion but our mr. morshed deliver a farewell address to eddy and co. tellin em they ought to have deduce from a hundred sign about me that i be a friendly bringin in dispatch from the north. we leave em tryin to find those sign in the scout book and we reach mr. morshed s hotel at portsmouth at. p. m. ong automobile. here endeth the first chapter. 
begin the second i say. 
the uncle and leggatt have finish wash up and be seat smoke while the damp duster dry at the fire. 
about what time be it say pyecroft to leggatt when our mr. morshed begin to talk about uncle. 
when he come back to the bar after he d change into those rat catcher clothe say leggatt. 
that s right. pye say he have you an uncle. i have i say. here s santy to him and i finish my sherry and bitter to you_ uncle. 
that s right say pyecroft s uncle sternly. if you hadn t i d have belt you worth rememberin emmanuel. i have the body all night. 
pyecroft smile affectionately. so you ad uncle an beautifully you look after her. but a i be say i have an uncle too say mr. morshed dark and lower. yet somehow i can t love him. i want to mortify the beggar. volunteer to mortify my uncle one pace to the front. 
i take jules with me the regulation distance. jules be get interest. your mr. leggatt preserve a strictly nootral attitude. 
you re a press man say our mr. morshed. i owe your late employer much so to say. the car will manoeuvre all night a requisite. 
mr. leggatt come out noble a your employee and by eaven s divine grace instead of argue he plead his new paint and varnish which be mr. morshed s one vital spot. he s lootenant on one of the new catch em alive o s now. true say he paint s an oly thing. i ll give you one hour to arrange a modus vivendi. full bunker and steam ready by p. m. to night if you please. 
even so mr. leggatt be far from content. i ad to arrange the detail. we run her into the yard here. pyecroft nod through the window at my car s glossy back panel. we take off the body with it mat and put it in the stable substitooting. and that yard s a tight fit for extensive repair. the body of uncle s blue delivery cart. it overhang a trifle but after i d lash it i know it wouldn t fetch loose. thus in our composite cruiser we repair once more to the hotel and be immediately dispatch to the toy shop in the high street where we take aboard one rock horse which be wait for u. 
take aboard what. i cry. 
one fourteen hand dapple grey rock horse with pure green rocker and detachable tail pair gashly glass eye complete set orrible grinnin teeth and two bloody red nostril which protrude from the brown paper produce the tout ensemble of a ju ju sacrifice in the benin campaign. do i make myself comprehensible. 
perfectly. do you say anything. i ask. 
only to jules. to him i say wish to try him. _allez à votre bateau. je say mon lootenong. eel voo donneray porkwor. to me say he _vous ong eat hurroo. jamay de la vee. and i saw by his eye he d take on for the full term of the war. jules be a blue eye brindle haired beggar of a useful make and inquirin habit. your mr. leggatt he only groan. 
leggatt nod. it be like nightmare he say. it be like nightmare. 
once more then pyecroft sweep on we return to the hotel and partake of a sumptuous repast under the able and genial chairmanship of our mr. morshed who lay his projecks unreservedly before u. in the first place he say open out bicycle map my uncle who i regret to say be a brigadier general ha sell his allege soul to dicky bridoon for a feathery hat and a pair o gild spur. jules conspuez l oncle. so jules you ll be glad to hear. 
one minute pye i say. who be dicky bridoon. 
i don t usually mingle myself up with the bickering of the junior service but it trarnspired that he be secretary o state for civil war an he d be issue mechanical leather belly gee gee which doctor recommend for tumour to the british cavalry in loo of real meat horse to learn to ride on. don t you remember there be quite a stir in the paper owe to the cavalry not appreciatin em. but that s a minor item. the main point be that our uncle in his capacity of brigadier general mark you have write to the paper highly approvin o dicky bridoon s mechanical substitute an ad thus obtain promotion all same a a agnosticle stoker psalm singin imself up the service under a pious captain. at that point of the narrative we catch a phosphorescent glimmer why the rock horse might have be issue. but none the le the navigation be intricate. omit the fact it be dark and cloudy our brigadier uncle lay somewhere in the south down with his brigade which be manoeuvrin at whitsum manoeuvre on a large scale red army versus blue et cetera. an all we ad to go by be those flap bicycle map and your mr. leggatt s groan. 
i be think what the down mean after dark say leggatt angrily. 
they be worth thinkin of say pyecroft. when we have study the map till it fair spin we decide to sally forth and creep for uncle by hand in the dark dark night an present im with the rock horse. so we embark at. p. m. 
one minute again please. how much do jules understand by that time. i ask. 
sufficient unto the day or night perhaps i should say. he tell our mr. morshed he d follow him more sing frays_ which be french for dead drink or damn. barrin be paucity o language there wasn t a blemish on jules. but what i wish to imply be when we climb into the back part of the car our lootenant morshed say to me i doubt if i d flick my cigar end about too lavish mr. pyecroft. we ought to be sit on five pound worth of select firework and i think the rocket be your end. not be able to smoke with my ead over the side i throw it away. and then your mr. leggatt aving be a nearly mutinous a it pay to be with my mr. morshed arch his back and drive. 
where do he drive to please. say i. 
primerrily in search of any or either or both army. seconderrily of course in search of our brigadier uncle. not find him on the road we run about the grass look for him. this take u to a great many place in a short time. ow eavenly that lilac do smell on top of that first down stinkin it blossomin little heart out. 
i adn t leesure to notice say mr. leggatt. the down be full o chalk pit and we d no light. 
we ad the bicycle lamp to look at the map by. didn t you notice the old lady at the window where we saw the man in the night gown. i think night gown a sleepin rig be extinck so to speak. 
i tell you i adn t leesure to notice leggatt repeat. 
that s odd. then what might ave make you tell the sentry at the first camp we find that you be the daily express delivery waggon. 
you can t touch pitch without be defile leggatt answer. oo tell the officer in the bath we be umpire. 
well he ask u. that be when we find the territorial battalion undressin in slow time. it lay on the leave flank o the blue army and it cackle a it lay too. but it give u our position a regard the respective army. we wander a little more and at. p. m. not have have a road under u for twenty minute we scale the height of something or other which be about six hundred foot high. here we alted to tighten the lashing of the superstructure and we smelt leather and horse three county deep all round. we be a you might say in the thick of it. 
ah. say my mr. morshed. my orizon ha indeed broaden. what a little thing be an uncle mr. pyecroft in the presence o these glitterin constellation. simply ludicrous. he say to waste a rock horse on an individual. we must socialise it. but we must get their eads up first. touch off one rocket if you please. 
i touch off a green three pounder which rise several thousand metre and burst into gorgeous star. reproduce the manoeuvre he say at the other end o this ridge if it don t end in another cliff. so we steam down the ridge a mile and a half east and then i let jules touch off a pink rocket or he d ha kiss me. that be his only way to express his emotion so to speak. their head come up then all around u to the extent o thousand. we hear bugle like cock crow below and on the top of it a most impressive sound which i d never enjoy before because itherto i d always be an inteegral part of it so to say the noise of ole army gettin under arm. they must ave anticipate a night attack i imagine. most impressive. then we eard a threshin machine. tutt. tutt. this be childish. say lootenant morshed. we can t wait till they ve finish cut chaff for their horse. we must make em understand we re not to be trifle with. expedite em with another rocket mr. pyecroft. 
it s barely possible sir i remark that that s a searchlight churnin up and by the time we back into a providential chalk cut. which be where our first tyre go pungo. she break out to the northward and begin search the ridge. a smart bite o work. 
twasn t a puncture. the inner tube have nip because we skid so leggatt interrupt. 
while your mr. leggatt be effectin repair another searchlight break out to the southward and the two of em sweep our ridge on both side. right at the west end of it they show u the grind rise into a hill so to speak crown with what look like a little fort. morshed saw it before the beam shut off. that s the key of the position. he say. occupy it at all hazard. 
i haven t half get occupation for the next twenty minute say your mr. leggatt rootin and blasphemin in the dark. mark now ow morshed change his tactic to suit be environment. right. say he. i ll stand by the ship. mr. pyecroft and jules oblige me by double along the ridge to the east with all the maroon and cracker you can carry without spill. read the direction careful for the maroon mr. pyecroft and touch them off at half minute interval. jules represent musketry an maxim fire under your command. remember it s death or salisbury gaol. prob ly both. 
by these mean and some moderately ard runnin we distract em to the eastward. maroon you may not be aware be same a bomb with the anarchism leave out. in confine spot like chalk pit they knock a four point seven silly. but you should read the direction before and. in the interval of the slow but well direct fire of my cow gun jules who have find a sheep pond in the dark a little low down give what you might call a cinematograph reproduction o sporadic musketry. they be large size cracker and he conclude with the dull sickenin thud o blind shell burstin on soft grind. 
how do he manage that. i say. 
you throw a light squib into water and you ll see say pyecroft. thus then we improvise till supply be exhaust and the surround landscape fair owled and ummed at u. the jun or service might ave ad their doubt about the rocket but they couldn t overlook our gunfire. both side tumble out full of initiative. i tell jules no two flat foot ad any right to be a happy a u and we go back along the ridge to the derelict and there be our mr. morshed apostrophin his andiwork over fifty square mile o country with attend all ye who list to hear. out of the fifth reader. he d get a far a and rouse the shepherd o stonehenge the ranger o beaulieu when we come up and he draw our attention to it truth a well a it beauty. that s rare in poetry i m tell. he go right on to the red glare on skiddaw rouse those beggar at carlisle which he point out be poetic license for leith hill. this allow your mr. leggatt time to finish pumpin up his tyre. i eard the sweat op off his nose. 
you know what it be sir say poor leggatt to me. 
it warfted across my mind a i listen to what be trarnspirin that it might be easy to make the mess than to wipe it up but such consideration weigh not with our valiant leader. 
mr. pyecroft he say it can t have escape your notice that we ave one angry and ighly intelligent army in front of u an another ighly angry and equally intelligent army in our rear. what ud you recommend. 
most men would have beseech im to do a lateral glide while there be yet time but all i say be. the rock horse isn t expend yet sir. 
he lay his hand on my shoulder. pye say he there s bad men than you in lofty place. they shall ave it. none the le he remark the ice be undeniably pack. 
i may ave omit to point out that at this juncture two large army both deprive of their night s sleep be awake a you might say and hurryin into each other s arm. here endeth the second chapter. 
he fill his pipe slowly. the uncle have fall asleep. leggatt light another cigarette. 
we then proceed ong automobile along the ridge in a westerly direction towards the miniature fort which have be so kindly reveal by the searchlight but which on inspection. your mr. leggatt bump into an outlyin reef of it. prove to be a wurzel clump. c est à dire_ a parallelogrammatic pile of about three million mangold wurzels bring up there for the sheep i suppose. on all side excep the one we d come by the grind fell away moderately quick and down at the bottom there be a large camp light up an full of harsh word of command. 
i say it be the key to the position lootenant morshed remark. trot out persimmon. which we rightly take to read un wrap the rock horse. 
houp la. say jules in a insubordinate tone an slap persimmon on the flank. 
silence. say the lootenant. this be the royal navy not newmarket. and we carry persimmon to the top of the mangel wurzel clump a direct. 
owe to the inequality of the terrain. i do think your mr. leggatt might have have a spirit level in his kit. he wouldn t rock free on the bed plate and while adjustin him his detachable tail fetch adrift. our lootenant be quick to seize the advantage. 
remove that transformation he say. substitute one roman candle. gas power be superior to manual propulsion. 
so we substitute. he arrange the pièce de resistarnce in the shape of large drum not saucer mark you drum of colour fire with print instruction at proper distance round persimmon. there be a brief interregnum while we dig ourselves in among the wurzels by hand. then he touch off the fire not omit the roman candle and you may take it from me all be visible. persimmon shine out in his naked splendour red to port green to starboard and one white light at his bow a per board o trade regulation. only he didn t so much rock you might say a shrug himself in a manner of speak every time the candle go off. one can t have everything. but the rest surpass our high expectation. i think persimmon be noble on the starboard or green side more like when a man think he s see mackerel in hell don t you know. and yet i d be the last to deprecate the effect of the port light on his teeth or that blood shoot look in his leave eye. he know there be something go on he didn t approve of. he look worry. 
do you laugh. i say. 
i m not much of a wag myself. nor it wasn t a if we ad time to allow the spectacle to sink in. the colour fire be suppose to burn ten minute whereas it be obvious to the mean capacity that the junior service would arrive by force march in about two and a half. they grarsped our topical allusion a soon a it be across the foot light so to speak. they be quite chafe at it. of course ad we reflect we might have know that exposin illuminate rockin horse to an army that be learnin to ride on em partake of the nature of a double entender_ a the french say same a waggle the tiller line at a man who s have a hang in the family. i know the cox of the archimandrite s galley arf kill for a similar plaisan teree. but we never anticipate lobster be so sensitive. that be why we shift. we could ardly tear our commandin officer away. he put his head on one side and keep cooin. the only thing he ad neglect to provide be a line of retreat. but your mr. leggatt an eroic soul in the last stage of wet prostration here take command of the van or rather the rear guard. we walk downhill beside him hold on to the superstructure to prevent her capsize. these technical detail owever be beyond me. he wave his pipe towards leggatt. 
i saw there be two deepish rut leadin down ill somewhere say leggatt. that be when the soldier stop laughin and begin to run uphill. 
stroll lovey stroll. pyecroft correct. the dervish rush take place late. 
so i lay her in these rut. that be where she must ave scrap her silencer a bite. then they turn sharp right the rut do and then she stop bonnet high in a manure heap sir. but i ll swear it be all of a one in three gradient. i think it be a barnyard. we wait there say leggatt. 
but not for long say pyecroft. the light be tower out of the drum on the position we ad so valiantly abandon. and the junior service be escaladin it en masse. when numerous body of ighly train men arrive simultaneous in the same latitude from opposite direction each remark briskly what the ell do you do that for. detonation a you might say be practically assure. they didn t ask for extraneous aid. if we d come out with swear affidavit of what we d do they wouldn t ave believe u. they want each other s company exclusive. such be the effect of persimmon on their clarss feeling. idol try i call it. event transpire with the utmost velocity and rapidly increase pressure. there be a few remark about dicky bridoon and mechanical horse and then some one be smack hard by the sound in the middle of a remark. 
that be the man who keep call for the forty fifth dragoon say leggatt. he get a far a drag. 
be it. say pyecroft dreamily. well he couldn t say they didn t come. they all come and they all fell to arguin whether the infantry should ave persimmon for a regimental pet or the cavalry should keep him for stud purpose. hence the issue be soon cloud with mangold wurzels. our commander say we ad sow the good seed and it be bear abundant fruit. they weigh between four and seven pound apiece. seein the child ad get over their shyness and ad really begin to play game we back out o the pit and go down by step to the camp below no man a you might say make u afraid. here we enjoy a front view of the battle which roll with renew impetus owe to both side receive strong reinforcement every minute. all arm be freely represent. cavalry on this occasion only act in concert with artillery. they argue the relative merit of horse versus foot so to say but they didn t neglect persimmon. the wound roll downhill with the wurzels inform u that he have long ago be socialise and the small souvenir be worth a man s life. speak broadly the junior service appear to be a shade out of and if i may venture so far. they do not pay prompt and unhesitating obedience to the retire or the cease fire or the for eaven s sake come to bed ducky of their officer who i regret to say be otly embroil at the head of their respective unit. 
how do you find that out. i ask. 
on account of lootenant morshed go to the mess tent to call on his uncle and raise a drink. but all hand have go to the front. we think we eard somebody bath behind the tent and we find an oldish gentleman tryin to drown a boy in knickerbockers in a horse trough. he keep him under with a bicycle so to speak. he ad nearly accomplish his fell design when we frustrate him. he be in a highly malleable condition and full o juice de spree. arsk not what i be he say. my wife ll tell me that quite soon enough. arsk rather what i ve be he say. i ve be dinin here he say. i command em in the eighty he say and gawd forgive me he say sobbin eavily i ve spend this holy even tell their colonel they be a set of educate inefficients. hark to em. we could without strainin ourselves. but how he pick up the gentle murmur of his own corp in that on the knee party up the hill i don t know. they ve march and fight thirty mile to day he shout and now they re tearin the intestine out of the cavalry up yonder. they win t stop this side the gate o delhi he say. i command their ancestor. there s nothing wrong with the service he say wring out his trouser on his lap. eaven pardon me for doubtin em. same old game same young beggar. 
the boy in the knickerbockers languish on a chair put in a claim for one drink. let him go dry say our friend in shirt tail. he s a reporter. he run into me on his filthy bicycle and he ask me if i could furnish im with particular about the mutiny in the army. you false earted proletarian publicist he say shakin his finger at im for he be reelly annoy i ll teach you to defile what you can t comprebend. when my regiment s in a state o mutiny i ll do myself the honour of inform you personally. you particularly ignorant and very narsty little man he say you re no good than a dhobi s donkey. if there wasn t dirty linen to wash you d starve he say and why i haven t drown you will be the lastin regret of my life. 
well we sit with em and ad drink for about half an hour in front of the mess tent. he d ha kill the reporter if there hadn t be witness and the reporter might have take note of the battle. so we act a two way buffer in a sense. i don t hold with the press mingle up with service matter. they draw false conclusion. now mark you at a moderate estimate there be seven thousand men in the fight line half of em hurt in their professional feeling an the other half rubbin in the liniment a you might say. all due to persimmon. if you adn t see it you wouldn t ave believe it. and yet mark you not one single unit of em even resort to his belt. they confine themselves to natural producks hand and the wurzels. i think jules be havin fit till it trarnspired the same think have impress him in the french language. he call it incroyable_ i believe. seven thousand men with seven thousand rifle belt and bayonet in a violently agitate condition and not a ungenteel blow strike from first to last. the old gentleman draw our attention to it a well. it be quite noticeable. 
lack of ammunition be the primerry cause of the battle ceasin. a brigade major come in wipin his nose on both cuff and sayin he ad ad snuff. the brigadier uncle follow. he be so to speak sneezin. we think it best to shift our mooring without attractin attention. so we shift. they ad call the cow ome by then. the junior service be go to bye bye all round u a happy a the ship s monkey when he s be playin with the paint and lootenant morshed and jules keep bowin to port and starboard of the superstructure acknowledgin the unstinted applause which the multitude would ave give em if they d know the fact. on the other and a your mr. leggatt observe they might ave kill u. 
that would have be about five bell in the middle watch say half past two. a well spend even. there be but little to be gain by enter portsmouth at that hour so we turn off on the grass. this be after we have find a road under u. and we cast anchor out at the stern and pray for the day. 
but your mr. leggatt he have to make and mend tyre all our watch below. it trarnspired she have be run on the rim o two or three wheel which very properly he hadn t report till the close of the action. and that s the reason of your four new tyre. mr. morshed be of opinion you d earn em. do you dissent. 
i stretch out my hand which pyecroft crush to pulp. no pye i say deeply move i agree entirely. but what happen to jules. 
we return him to his own navy after breakfast. he wouldn t have keep much long without some one in his own language to tell it to. i don t know any man i ever take more compassion on than jules. be suffering swell him up centimetre and all he could do on the hard be to kiss lootenant morshed and me and your mr. leggatt. he deserve that much. a cordial beggar. 
pyecroft look at the wash cup on the table and the low sunshine on my car s back in the yard. 
too early to drink to him he say. but i feel it just the same. 
the uncle sink in his chair snore a little. the canary answer with a shrill lullaby. pyecroft pick up the duster throw it over the cage put his finger to his lip and we tiptoe out into the shop while leggatt bring the car round. 
i ll look out for the news in the paper i say a i get in. 
oh we short circuit that. nothing trarnspired excep a statement to the effect that some territorial battalion have play about with turnip at the conclusion of the manoeuvre the taxpayer don t know all he get for his money. farewell. 
we move off just in time to be block by a regiment come towards the station to entrain for london. 
beg your pardon sir say a sergeant in charge of the baggage but would you mind backin a bite till we get the waggon past. 
certainly i say. you don t happen to have a rock horse among your kit do you. 
the rattle of our reverse drown his answer but i saw his eye. one of them be blackish green about four day old. 
the legend of mirth. 
the four archangel so the legend tell raphael gabriel michael azrael be first of those to whom the power be show stand first of all the host before the throne and when the charge be allot burst tumultuous wing from out the assembly first. zeal be their spur that bid them strictly heed their own high judgment on their light deed. zeal be their spur that when relief be give urge them unwearied to fresh toil in heaven. for honour s sake perfect every task beyond what e en perfection s self could ask. and allah who create zeal and pride know how the twain be perilous near ally. 
it chance on one of heaven s long light day the four and all the host have go their way each to his charge the shin court be void save for one seraph whom no charge employ with folden wing and slumber threaten brow. to whom the word. beloved what dost thou. by the permission come the answer soft little i do nor do that little oft. a be the will in heaven so on earth where by the will i strive to make men mirth. he cease and speed hear the word once more. beloved go thy way and greet the four. 
system and universe overpast the seraph come upon the four at last guide and guard with devote mind the tedious generation of mankind who lend at most unwilling ear and eye when they could not escape the ministry. yet patient faithful firm persistent just toward all that gross indifferent facile dust the archangel labour to discharge their trust by precept and example prayer and law advice reproof and rule but labour saw each in his fellow s countenance confess the doubt that sicken. have i do my best. 
even a they sigh and turn to toil anew the seraph hail them with observance due. and after some fit talk of high thing touch tentative on mundane happening. this they permit he embolden thus prolused of humankind promiscuous. and since the large contention le avail than instance observe he tell them tale tale of the shop the bed the court the street intimate elemental indiscreet. occasion where confusion smite swift pile jest on jest a snow slide pile the drift. 
whence one by one beneath derisive sky the victim bare bewilder head arise. tale of the pass of the spirit grace with humour blind a the doom it face. stark tale of ribaldry that break aside to tear by laughter swallow ere they dry. tale to which neither grace nor gain accrue but only. allah be exalt. true and only a the seraph show that night delight to the limit of delight. 
these he rehearse with artful pause and halt and such pretence of memory at fault that soon the four so well the bait be throw come to his aid with memory of their own matter dismiss long since a small or vain whereof the high significance have lie hide till the ungirt gloss make it plain. then a enlightenment come broad and fast each marvel at his own oblivious past until the gate of laughter open wide the four with that bland seraph at their side while they recall compare and amplify in utter mirth forget both zeal and pride. 
high over heaven the lamp of midnight burn ere weak with merriment the four return not in that order they be wont to keep pinion to pinion answer sweep for sweep in awful diapason hear afar but shoutingly adrift twixt star and star. reel a planet s orbit leave or right a laughter take them in the abysmal night. or by the point of some remember jest wing and bring helpless down through gulf unguessed where the blank world that gather to the birth leap in the womb of darkness at their mirth and e en gehenna s bondsman understand. they be not damn from human brotherhood. 
not first nor last of heaven s high host the four that night take place beneath the throne once more. o lovely than their morning majesty the understand light behind the eye. o more compel than their old command the new learn friendly gesture of the hand. o sweet than their zealous fellowship the wise half smile that pass from lip to lip. o well and roundly when command be give they tell their tale against themselves to heaven and in the silence wait on the word receive the peace and pardon of the lord. 
my son s wife. 

he have suffer from the disease of the century since his early youth and before he be thirty he be heavily mark with it. he and a few friend have rearrange heaven very comfortably but the reorganisation of earth which they call society be even great fun. it demand work in the shape of many taxi ride daily. hour of brilliant talk with brilliant talker. some sparkle correspondence. a few silence. but on the understand that their own turn should come soon. while other people expound philosophy. and a fair number of picture gallery tea fight concert theatre music hall and cinema show. the whole trim with love make to woman whose hair smelt of cigarette smoke. such strong day send frankwell midmore back to his flat assure that he and his friend have help the world a step near the truth the dawn and the new order. 
his temperament he say lead him more towards concrete data than abstract idea. people who investigate detail be apt to be tire at the day s end. the same temperament or it may have be a woman make him early attach himself to the immoderate leave of his cause in the capacity of an experimenter in social relation. and since the immoderate leave contain plenty of woman anxious to help earnest inquirer with large independent income to arrive at evaluation of essential frankwell midmore s lot be far from contemptible. 
at that hour fate choose to play with him. a widow aunt widely separate by nature and more widely by marriage from all that midmore s mother have ever be or desire to be die and leave him possession. mr. midmore have that summer embrace a creed which deny the existence of death naturally could not stoop to burial. but midmore have to leave london for the dank country at a season when social regeneration work best through long cushion conference two by two after tea. there he face the brace ritual of the british funeral and be weep at across the raw grave by an elderly coffin shape female with a long nose who call him master frankie. and there he be congratulate behind an echo top hat by a man he mistake for a mute who turn out to be his aunt s lawyer. he write his mother next day after a bright account of the funeral. 
so far a i can understand she ha leave me between four and five hundred a year. it all come from ther land a they call it down here. the unspeakable attorney sperrit and a green eye daughter who hum to herself a she tramp but be silent on all subject except huntin insist on take me to see it. ther land be brown and green in alternate slab like chocolate and pistachio cake speckle with occasional peasant who do not utter. in case it should not be wet enough there be a wet brook in the middle of it. ther house be by the brook. i shall look into it late. if there should be any little memento of jenny that you care for let me know. didn t you tell me that mid victorian furniture be come into the market again. jenny s old maid it be call rhoda dolbie tell me that jenny promise it thirty pound a year. the will doe not. hence i suppose the tear at the funeral. but that be close on ten per cent of the income. i fancy jenny ha destroy all her private paper and record of her vie intime_ if indeed life be possible in such a place. the sperrit man tell me that if i have mean of my own i might come and live on ther land. i didn t tell him how much i would pay not to. i cannot think it right that any human be should exercise mastery over others in the merciless fashion our tom fool social system permit. so a it be all mine i intend to sell it whenever the unholy sperrit can find a purchaser. 
and he go to mr. sperrit with the idea next day just before return to town. 
quite so say the lawyer. i see your point of course. but the house itself be rather old fashion hardly the type purchaser demand nowadays. there s no park of course and the bulk of the land be let to a life tenant a mr. sidney. a long a he pay his rent he can t be turn out and even if he didn t mr. sperrit s face relax a shade you might have a difficulty. 
the property bring four hundred a year i understand say midmore. 
well hardly ha ardly. deduct land and income tax tithe fire insurance cost of collection and repair of course it return two hundred and eighty four pound last year. the repair be rather a large item owe to the brook. i call it liris out of horace you know. 
midmore look at his watch impatiently. 
i suppose you can find somebody to buy it. he repeat. 
we will do our best of course if those be your instruction. then that be all except here midmore half rise but mr. sperrit s little grey eye hold his large brown one firmly except about rhoda dolbie mr. werf s maid. i may tell you that we do not draw up your aunt s last will. she grow secretive towards the last elderly people often do and have it do in london. i expect her memory fail her or she mislay her note. she use to put them in her spectacle case. my motor only take eight minute to get to the station mr. midmore. but a i be say whenever she make her will with us_ mr. werf always leave rhoda thirty pound per annum. charlie the will. a clerk with a baldish head and a long nose deal document on to the table like card and breathe heavily behind midmore. it s in no sense a legal obligation of course say mr. sperrit. ah that one be date january the th eighteen eighty nine. 
midmore look at his watch again and find himself say with no good grace. well i suppose she d good have it for the present at any rate. 
he escape with an uneasy feel that two hundred and fifty four pound a year be not exactly four hundred and that charlie s long nose annoy him. then he return first class to his own affair. 
of the two perhaps three experiment in social relation which he have then in hand one interest him acutely. it have run for some month and promise most variegate and interest development on which he dwell luxuriously all the way to town. when he reach his flat he be not well prepare for a twelve page letter explain in the diction of the immoderate leave which rubricate it i s and illuminate it t s that the lady have realise great attraction in another soul. she re state rather than plead the gospel of the immoderate leave a her justification and end in an impassioned demand for her right to express herself in and on her own life through which she point out she could pas but once. she add that if late she should discover midmore be essentially complementary to her need she would tell him so. that midmore have himself write much the same sort of epistle bar the hint of return to a woman of whom his need for self expression have cause him to weary three year before do not assist him in the least. he express himself to the gas fire in term essential but not complimentary. then he reflect on the detach criticism of his best friend and her best friend male and female with whom he and she and others have talk so openly while their gay adventure be in flower. he recall too this must have be about midnight her analysis from every angle remote and most intimate of the mate to whom she have be adjudge under the base convention which be style marriage. late at that bad hour when the cattle wake for a little he remember her in other aspect and go down into the hell appoint. desolate desire with no god to call upon. about eleven o clock next morning eliphaz the temanite bildad the shuhite and zophar the naamathite call upon him for they have make appointment together to see how he take it. but the janitor tell them that job have go into the country he believe. 
midmore s relief when he find his story be not write across his ache temple for mr. sperrit to read the defeat lover like the successful one belief all earth privy to his soul be put down by mr. sperrit to quite different cause. he lead him into a morning room. the rest of the house seem to be full of people sing to a loud piano idiotic song about cow and the hall smelt of damp cloak. 
it s our even to take the winter cantata mr. sperrit explain. it s high tide on the coast of lincolnshire. i hop you d come back. there be score of little thing to settle. a for the house of course it stand ready for you at any time. i couldn t get rhoda out of it nor could charlie for that matter. she s the sister isn t she of the nurse who bring you down here when you be four she say to recover from measles. 
be she. be i. say midmore through the bad taste in his mouth. d you suppose i could stay there the night. 
thirty joyous young voice shout appeal to some one to leave their pipe of parsley ollow ollow ollow. mr. sperrit have to raise his voice above the din. 
well if i ask you to stay here_ i should never hear the last of it from rhoda. she s a little crack of course but the soul of devotion and capable of anything. ne sit ancillae_ you know. 
thank you. then i ll go. i ll walk. he stumble out daze and sick into the winter twilight and seek the square house by the brook. 
it be not a dignify entry because when the door be unchain and rhoda exclaim he take two valiant step into the hall and then faint a men sometimes will after twenty two hour of strong emotion and little food. 
i m sorry he say when he could speak. he be lie at the foot of the stair his head on rhoda s lap. 
your ome be your castle sir be the reply in his hair. i smelt it wasn t drink. you lay on the sofa till i get your supper. 
she settle him in a draw room hang with yellow silk heavy with the smell of dead leaf and oil lamp. something murmur soothingly in the background and overcome the noise in his head. he think he hear horse foot on wet gravel and a voice sing about ship and flock and grass. it pass close to the shutter bay window. 
but each will mourn his own she saith and sweet woman ne er draw breath than my son s wife elizabeth. cusha cusha cusha call. 
the hoof break into a canter a rhoda enter with the tray. and then i ll put you to bed she say. sidney s come in the morning. midmore ask no question. he drag his poor bruise soul to bed and would have pity it all over again but the food and warm sherry and water drug him to instant sleep. 
rhoda s voice waken him ask whether he would have ip foot or sitz which he understand be the bath of the establishment. suppose you try all three she suggest. they re all yours you know sir. 
he would have renew his sorrow with the daylight but her word strike him pleasantly. everything his eye open upon be his very own to keep for ever. the carve four post chippendale bed obviously worth hundred. the wavy walnut william and mary chair he have see bad one label twenty guinea apiece. the oval medallion mirror. the delicate eighteenth century wire fireguard. the heavy brocade curtain be his all his. so too a great garden full of bird that face him when he shave. a mulberry tree a sun dial and a dull steel colour brook that murmur level with the edge of a lawn a hundred yard away. peculiarly and privately his own be the smell of sausage and coffee that he sniff at the head of the wide square land all set round with mysterious door and bartolozzi print. he spend two hour after breakfast in explore his new possession. his heart leap up at such thing a sew machine a rubber tyred bath chair in a tile passage a malachite head malacca cane box and box of unopened stationery seal ring bunch of key and at the bottom of a steel net reticule a little leather purse with seven pound ten shilling in gold and eleven shilling in silver. 
you use to play with that when my sister bring you down here after your measles say rhoda a he slip the money into his pocket. now this be your pore dear auntie s business room. she open a low door. oh i forget about mr. sidney. there he be. an enormous old man with rheumy red eye that blink under downy white eyebrow sit in an empire chair his cap in his hand. rhoda withdraw sniff. the man look midmore over in silence then jerk a thumb towards the door. i reckon she tell you who i be he begin. i m the only farmer you ve get. nothin go off my place thout it walk on it own foot. what about my pig pound. 
well what about it. say midmore. 
that s just what i be come about. the county council be get more particular. do ye know there be swine fever at pashell s. there be. it ll ave to be in brick. 
yes say midmore politely. 
i ve bin at your aunt that be plenty time about it. i don t say she wasn t a just woman but she didn t read the lease same way i do. i be use to bein put upon but there s no do any long thout that pig pound. 
when would you like it. midmore ask. it seem the easy road to take. 
any time or other suit me i reckon. he ain t thrivin where he be an i pay eighteen shillin for him. he cross his hand on his stick and give no further sign of life. 
be that all. midmore stammer. 
all now excep he glance fretfully at the table beside him excep my usuals. where s that rhoda. 
midmore ring the bell. rhoda come in with a bottle and a glass. the old man help himself to four stiff finger rise in one piece and stump out. at the door he cry ferociously. don t suppose it s any odds to you whether i m drown or not but them floodgate want a wheel and winch they do. i be too old for liftin em with the bar my time o life. 
good riddance if e be drown say rhoda. but don t you mind him. he s only amusin himself. your pore dear auntie use to give im be usual tisn t the whisky you drink an send im about be business. 
i see. now be a pig pound the same thing a a pig sty. 
rhoda nod. e need one too but e ain t entitle to it. you look at be lease third drawer on the leave in that bombay cab net an next time e come you ask im to read it. that ll choke im off because e can t. 
there be nothing in midmore s past to teach him the message and significance of a hand write lease of the late eighty but rhoda interpret. 
it don t mean anything reelly be her cheerful conclusion excep you mustn t get rid of him anyhow an e can do what e like always. lucky for u e do farm. and if it wasn t for be woman. 
oh there s a mr. sidney be there. 
lor no. the sidney don t marry. they keep. that s his fourth since to my knowledge. he be a takin man from the first. 
any family. 
they d be grow up by now if there be wouldn t they. but you can t spend all your day considerin be interest. that s what give your pore aunt er indigestion. ave you see the gun room. 
midmore hold strong view on the immorality of take life for pleasure. but there be no deny that the late colonel werf s seventy guinea breechloader be good at their filthy job. he load one take it out and point merely point it at a cock pheasant which rise out of a shrubbery behind the kitchen and the flame bird come down in a long slant on the lawn stone dead. rhoda from the scullery say it be a lovely shoot and tell him lunch be ready. 
he spend the afternoon gun in one hand a map in the other beat the bound of his land. they lay altogether in a shallow uninteresting valley flank with wood and bisect by a brook. up stream be his own house. down stream le than half a mile a low red farm house squat in an old orchard beside what look like small lock gate on the thames. there be no doubt a to ownership. mr. sidney saw him while yet far off and bellow at him about pig pound and floodgate. these last be two great slide shutter of weedy oak across the brook which be prise up inch by inch with a crowbar along a notch strip of iron and when sidney open them they at once let out half the water. midmore watch it shrink between it aldered bank like some conjure trick. this too be his very own. 
i see he say. how interest. now what s that bell for. he go on point to an old ship s bell in a rude belfry at the end of an outhouse. be that a chapel once. the red eye giant seem to have difficulty in express himself for the moment and blink savagely. 
yes he say at last. my chapel. when you ear that bell ring you ll ear something. nobody but me ud put up with it but i reckon it don t make any odds to you. he slam the gate down again and the brook rise behind them with a suck and a grunt. 
midmore move off conscious that he might be safe with rhoda to hold his conversational hand. a he pass the front of the farm house a smooth fat woman with neatly part grey hair under a widow s cap curtsy to him deferentially through the window. by every teach of the immoderate leave she have a perfect right to express herself in any way she please but the curtsey revolt him. and on his way home he be hail from behind a hedge by a manifest idiot with no roof to his mouth who halloo and dance round him. 
what do that beast want. he demand of rhoda at tea. 
jimmy. he only want to know if you ad any telegram to send. e ll go anywhere so long a tisn t across run water. that give im be seizure. even talkin about it for fun like make im shake. 
but why isn t he where he can be properly look after. 
what arm s e do. e s a love child but be family can pay for im. if e be lock up e d die all off at once like a wild rabbit. win t you please look at the drive sir. 
midmore look in the fade light. the neat gravel be pit with large roundish hole and there be a punch or two of the same sort on the lawn. 
that s the unt comin ome rhoda explain. your pore dear auntie always let em use our drive for a short cut after the colonel die. the colonel wouldn t so much because he preserve. but your auntie be always an orsewoman till er sciatica. 
isn t there some one who can rake it over or or something. say midmore vaguely. 
oh yes. you ll never see it in the morning but you be out when they come ome an mister fisher he s the master tell me to tell you with be compliment that if you wasn t preservin and care to old to the old understand be gravel pit be at your service same a before. e think perhaps you mightn t know and it ad slip my mind to tell you. it s good gravel mister fisher s and it bind beautiful on the drive. we ave to draw it o course from the pit but. 
midmore look at her helplessly. 
rhoda say he what be i suppose to do. 
oh let em come through she reply. you never know. you may want to unt yourself some day. 
that even it rain and his misery return on him the bad for have be divert. at last he be drive to paw over a few score book in a panel room call the library and realise with horror what the late colonel werf s mind must have be in it prime. the volume smelt of a dead world a strongly a they do of mildew. he open and thrust them back one after another till crude colour illustration of men on horse hold his eye. he begin at random and read a little move into the draw room with the volume and settle down by the fire still read. it be a foul world into which he peep for the first time a heavy eat hard drink hell of horse copers swindler matchmaking mother economically dependent virgin sell themselves blushingly for cash and land. jew tradesman and an ill consider spawn of dickens and horsedung character. i give midmore s own criticism. but he read on fascinate and behold from the page leap a it be the brother to the red eye man of the brook bellow at a landlord. here midmore realise that he be that very animal. for new barn. and another man who like himself again object to hoof mark on gravel. outrageous a think and conception be the stuff seem to have the rudiment of observation. he dig out other volume by the same author till rhoda come in with a silver candlestick. 
rhoda say he do you ever hear about a character call jam pigg and batsey. 
why o course say she. the colonel use to come into the kitchen in be dressin gown an read u all those jorrockses. 
oh lord. say midmore and go to bed with a book call handley cross under his arm and a lonely columbus into a strange world the wet ring moon never look upon. 
* * * * *. 
here we omit much. but midmore never deny that for the epicure in sensation the urgent need of an ancient house a interpret by rhoda point to daylight through attic tile hold in place by moss give an edge to the pleasure of social research elsewhere. equally he find that the reaction follow prolong research lose much of it grey terror if one know one can at will bathe the soul in the society of plumber. all the water pipe have chronic appendicitis. village idiot. jimmy have take midmore under his weak wing and camp daily at the drive gate. and a giant with red eyelid whose every action be an unpredictable outrage. 
towards spring midmore fill his house with a few friend of the immoderate leave. it happen to be the day when all thing and rhoda work together a cartload of brick another of sand and some bag of lime have be despatch to build sidney his almost daily demand pig pound. midmore take his friend across the flat field with some idea of show them sidney a a type of the peasantry. they hit the minute when sidney hoarse with rage be order bricklayer mate cart and all off his premise. the visitor dispose themselves to listen. 
you never give me no notice about changin the pig sidney shout. the pig at least eighteen inch long rear on end in the old sty and smile at the company. 
but my good man midmore open. 
i ain t. for aught you know i be a dam sight bad than you be. you can t come and be ave arbit ry with me. you be be avin arbit ry. all you men go clean away an don t set foot on my land till i bid ye. 
but you ask midmore felt his voice jump up to have the pig pound build. 
spose i do. that s no reason you shouldn t send me notice to change the pig. comin down on me like this thout warnin. that pig s get to be get into the cowshed an all. 
then open the door and let him run in say midmore. 
don t you be ave arbit ry with me. take all your dam men ome off my land. i win t be treat arbit ry. 
the cart move off without a word and sidney go into the house and slam the door. 
now i hold that be enormously significant say a visitor. here you have the logical outcome of century of feudal oppression the frenzy of fear. the company look at midmore with grave pain. 
but he do worry my life out about his pig sty be all midmore find to say. 
others take up the parable and prove to him if he only hold true to the gospel of the immoderate leave the earth would soon be cover with jolly little pig sty build in the interval of morris dance by the peasant himself. 
midmore felt grateful when the door open again and mr. sidney invite them all to retire to the road which he point out be public. a they turn the corner of the house a smooth face woman in a widow s cap curtsy to each of them through the window. 
instantly they draw picture of that woman s lot deprive of all vehicle for self expression the set grey life and apathetic end one quote and they discuss the tremendous significance of village theatrical. even a month ago midmore would have tell them all that he know and rhoda have drop about sidney s form of self expression. now for some strange reason he be content to let the talk run on from village to metropolitan and world drama. 
rhoda advise him after the visitor leave that if he want to do that again he have good go up to town. 
but we only sit on cushion on the floor say her master. 
they re too old for romp she retort an it s only the begin of thing. i ve see what i ve see. besides they talk and laugh in the passage go to their bath such a take em. 
don t be a fool rhoda say midmore. no man unless he ha love her will casually dismiss a woman on whose lap he ha lay his head. 
very good she snort but that cut both way. an now you go down to sidney s this evenin and put him where he ought to be. he be in his right about you givin im notice about changin the pig but he adn t any right to turn it up before your company. no manner no pig pound. he ll understand. 
midmore do his best to make him. he find himself revile the old man in speech and with a joy quite new in all his experience. he wind up it be a plagiarism from a plumber by tell mr. sidney that he look like a turkey cock have the moral of a parish bull and need never hope for a new pig pound a long a he or midmore live. 
very good say the giant. i reckon you think you ad something against me and now you ve come down an tell it me like man to man. quite right. i don t bear malice. now you send along those brick an sand an i ll make a do to build the pig pound myself. if you look at my lease you ll find out you re bind to provide me material for the repair. only only i think there d be no arm in my askin you to do it throughout like. 
midmore fairly gasp. then why the devil do you turn my cart back when when i send them up here to do it throughout for you. 
mr. sidney sit down on the floodgate his eyebrow knit in think. 
i ll tell you he say slowly. twas too dam like cheatin a suckin baby. my woman she say so too. 
for a few second the teaching of the immoderate leave whose humour be all their own wrestle with those of mother earth who ha her own humour. then midmore laugh till he could scarcely stand. in due time mr. sidney laugh too crow and wheeze crescendo till it break from him in roar. they shake hand and midmore go home grateful that he have hold his tongue among his companion. 
when he reach his house he meet three or four men and woman on horse back very muddy indeed come down the drive. feel hungry himself he ask them if they be hungry. they say they be and he bid them enter. jimmy take their horse who seem to know him. rhoda take their batter hat lead the woman upstairs for hairpin and presently feed them all with tea cake poach egg anchovy toast and drink from a coromandel wood liqueur case which midmore have never know that he possess. 
and i will say say miss connie sperrit her spur foot on the fender and a smoke muffin in her whip hand rhoda doe one top hole. she always do since i be eight. 
seven miss be when you begin to unt say rhoda set down more butter toast. 
and so the m. f. h. be say to midmore when he get to your brute sidney s land we have to whip em off. it s a regular alsatia for em. they know it. why he drop his voice i don t want to say anything against sidney a your tenant of course but i do believe the old scoundrel s perfectly capable of put down poison. 
sidney s capable of anything say midmore with immense feel. but once again he hold his tongue. they be a queer community. yet when they have stamp and jingle out to their horse again the house felt hugely big and disconcert. 
this may be reckon the conscious begin of his double life. it run in odd channel that summer a rid school for instance near hay common and a shoot grind near wormwood scrub. a man who ha be saddle gall or shoulder bruise for half the day be not at his london best of evening. and when the bill for his amusement come in he curtail his expense in other direction. so a cloud settle on midmore s name. his london world talk of a harden of heart and a tighten of purse string which signify disloyalty to the cause. one man a confidant of the old expressive day attack him robustiously and demand account of his soul s progress. it be not furnish for midmore be calculate how much it would cost to repave stable so dilapidate that even the village idiot apologise for put visitor horse into them. the man go away and serve up what he have hear of the pig pound episode a a little newspaper sketch calculate to annoy. midmore read it with an eye a practical a a woman s and since most of his experience have be among woman at once seek out a woman to whom he might tell his sorrow at the disloyalty of his own familiar friend. she be so sympathetic that he go on to confide how his bruise heart she know all about it have find so lace with a long o in another quarter which he indicate rather carefully in case it might be betray to other loyal friend. a his hint point directly towards facile hampstead and a his urgent business be the purchase of a horse from a dealer beckenham way he felt he have do good work. late when his friend the scribe talk to him alluringly of secret garden and those so lace to which every man who follow the wide morality be entitle midmore lend him a five pound note which he have get back on the price of a ninety guinea bay geld. so true it be a he read in one of the late colonel werf s book that the young man of the present day would sooner lie under an imputation against his moral than against his knowledge of horse flesh. 
midmore desire more than he desire anything else at that moment to ride and above all to jump on a ninety guinea bay geld with black point and a slovenly habit of hit his fence. he do not wish many people except mr. sidney who very kindly lend his soft meadow behind the floodgate to be privy to the matter which he rightly foresee would take him to the autumn. so he tell such friend a hint at country week end visit that he have practically let his newly inherit house. the rent he say be an object to him for he have lately lose large sum through ill consider benevolence. he would name no name but they could guess. and they guess loyally all round the circle of his acquaintance a they spread the news that explain so much. 
there remain only one couple of his once intimate associate to pacify. they be deeply sympathetic and utterly loyal of course but a curious a any of the ape whose diet they have adopt. midmore meet them in a suburban train come up to town not twenty minute after he have come off two hour advance tuition. one guinea an hour. over hurdle in a hall. he have of course change his kit but his too heavy bridle hand shake a little among the newspaper. on the inspiration of the moment which be your natural liar s best hold he tell them that he be condemn to a rest cure. he would lie in semi darkness drink milk for week and week cut off even from letter. he be astonish and delight at the ease with which the usual lie confound the unusual intellect. they swallow it a swiftly a they recommend him to live on nut and fruit. but he saw in the woman s eye the exact reason she would set forth for his retirement. after all she have a much right to express herself a he purpose to take for himself. and midmore believe strongly in the full equality of the sex. 
that retirement make one small ripple in the strenuous world. the lady who have write the twelve page letter ten month before send him another of eight page analyse all the motif that be lead her back to him should she come. now that he be ill and alone. much might yet be retrieve she say out of the waste of jar life and piteous misunderstanding. it need only a hand. 
but midmore need two next morning very early for a devil s diversion among wet coppice call cub. 
you haven t a bad seat say miss sperrit through the morning mist. but you re worry him. 
he pull so midmore grunt. 
let him alone then. look out for the branch she shout a they whirl up a splashy ride. cub be plentiful. most of the hound attach themselves to a straight neck youngster of education who scuttle out of the wood into the open field below. 
hold on. some one shout. turn em midmore. that s your brute sidney s land. it s all wire. 
oh connie stop. mr. sperrit shriek a her daughter charge at a boundary hedge. 
wire be damn. i have it all out a fortnight ago. come on. this be midmore buffet into it a little low down. 
i know that. connie cry over her shoulder and she flit across the open pasture hum to herself. 
oh of course. if some people have private information they can afford to thrust. this be a snuff colour habit into which miss sperrit have cannon down the ride. 
what. midmore get sidney to heel. you never do that sperrit. this be mr. fisher m. f. h. enlarge the breach midmore have make. 
no confound him. say the father testily. go on sir. injecto ter pulvere you ve kick half the ditch into my eye already. 
they kill that cub a little short of the haven his mother have tell him to make for a two acre alsatia of a gorse patch to which the m. f. h. have be deny access for the last fifteen season. he express his gratitude before all the field and mr. sidney at mr. sidney s farm house door. 
and if there should be any poultry claim he go on. 
there win t be say midmore. it s too like cheat a suck child isn t it mr. sidney. 
you ve get me. be all the reply. i be use to bein put upon but you ve get me mu midmore. 
midmore point to a new brick pig pound build in strict disregard of the term of the life tenant s lease. the gesture tell the tale to the few who do not know and they shout. 
such pagan delight a these be follow by pagan sloth of evening when men and woman elsewhere be at their bright. but midmore prefer to lie out on a yellow silk couch read work of a debase vulgarity. or by invitation to dine with the sperrits and savage of their kidney. these do not expect flight of fancy or phrase. they lie except about horse grudgingly and of necessity not for art s sake. and men and woman alike they express themselves along their choose line with the serene indifference of the large animal. then midmore would go home and identify them one by one out of the natural history book by mr. surtees on the table beside the sofa. at first they look upon him coolly but when the tale of the remove wire and the recapture gorse have go the round they accept him for a person will to play their game. true a faction suspend judgment for a while because they shoot and hop that midmore would serve the glorious mammon of pheasant raise rather than the unkempt god of fox hunt. but after he have show his choice they do not ask by what intellectual process he have arrive at it. he hunt three sometimes four time a week which necessitate not only one bay geld. £. s. but a mannerly white stock chestnut. £. and a black mare rather long in the back but with a mouth of silk. £. who so evidently prefer to carry a lady that it would have be cruel to have baulk her. besides with that handle she could be sell at a profit. and besides the hunt be a quiet intimate kindly little hunt not anxious for stranger of good report in the field_ the servant of one m. f. h. give to hospitality rid well it own horse and with the exception of midmore not novice. but a miss sperrit observe after the m. f. h. have say some thing to him at a gate. it be a pity you don t know a much a your horse but you will in time. it take year and yee ar. i ve be at it for fifteen and i m only just learn. but you ve make a decent kick off. 
so he kick off in wind and wet and mud wonder quite sincerely why the bubble ditch and suck pasture hold him from day to day or what so lace he could find on off day in chase groom and brick layer round outhouse. 
to make sure he up root himself one week end of heavy mid winter rain and re enter his lose world in the character of galahad fresh from a rest cure. they all agree with an eye over his shoulder for the next comer that he be a different man. but when they ask him for the symptom of nervous strain and lead him all through their own he realise he have lose much of his old skill in lie. his three month absence too have put him hopelessly behind the london field. the movement the allusion the slang of the game have change. the couple have rearrange themselves or be re crystallize in fresh triangle whereby he put his foot in it badly. only one great soul. he who have write the account of the pig pound episode. stand untouched by the vast flux of time and midmore lend him another five for his integrity. a woman take him in the wet forenoon to a pronouncement on the oneness of impulse in humanity which strike him a a polysyllabic résumé of mr. sidney s domestic arrangement plus a clarion call to shock civilisation into common sense. 
and you ll come to tea with me to morrow. she ask after lunch nibble cashew nut from a saucer. midmore reply that there be great arrears of work to overtake when a man have be put away for so long. 
but you ve come back like a giant refresh. i hope that daphne this be the lady of the twelve and the eight page letter will be with u too. she ha misunderstand herself like so many of u the woman murmur but i think eventually. she fling out her thin little hand. however these be thing that each lonely soul must adjust for itself. 
indeed yes say midmore with a deep sigh. the old trick be sprout in the old atmosphere like mushroom in a dung pit. he pass into an abrupt reverie shake his head a though sting by tumultuous memory and depart without any ceremony of farewell to catch a mid afternoon express where a man meet associate who talk horse and weather a it affect the horse all the way down. what worry him most be that he have miss a day with the hound. 
he meet rhoda s keen old eye without flinch. and the draw room look very comfortable that wet even at tea. after all his visit to town have not be wholly a failure. he have burn quite a bushel of letter at his flat. a flat here he reach mechanically towards the wear volume near the sofa a flat be a consume animal. a for daphne. he open at random on the word. his lordship then do a desire and disclose a tableau of considerable strength and variety. midmore reflect. and i use to think. but she wasn t. we be all babbler and skirters together. i didn t babble much thank goodness but i skirt. he turn the page backward for more sort surteesianae_ and read. when at length they rise to go to bed it strike each man a he follow his neighbour upstairs that the man before him walk very crookedly. he laugh aloud at the fire. 
what about to morrow. rhoda ask enter with garment over her shoulder. it s never stop rain since you leave. you ll be plaster out of sight an all in five minute. you d good wear your next best adn t you. i m afraid they ve shrink. adn t you best try em on. 
here. say midmore. 
suit yourself. i bath you when you wasn t large than a leg o lamb say the ex lady maid. 
rhoda one of these day i shall get a valet and a marry butler. 
there s many a true word speak in jest. but nobody s huntin to morrow. 
why. have they cancel the meet. 
they say it only mean slip and over reach in the mud and they all ad enough of that to day. charlie tell me so just now. 
oh. it seem that the word of mr. sperrit s confidential clerk have weight. 
charlie come down to help mr. sidney lift the gate rhoda continue. 
the floodgate. they be perfectly easy to handle now. i ve put in a wheel and a winch. 
when the brook s really up they must be take clean out on account of the rubbish blockin em. that s why charlie come down. 
midmore grunt impatiently. everybody ha talk to me about that brook ever since i come here. it s never do anything yet. 
this a be a dry summer. if you care to look now sir i ll get you a lantern. 
she paddle out with him into a large wet night. half way down the lawn her light be reflect on shallow brown water prick through with grass blade at the edge. beyond that light the brook be strangle and kick among hedge and tree trunk. 
what on earth will happen to the big rise bed. be midmore s first word. 
it generally a to be restock after a flood. ah. she raise her lantern. there s two garden seat knockin against the sun dial. now that win t do the rose any good. 
this be too absurd. there ought to be some decently think out system for for deal with this sort of thing. he peer into the rush gloom. there seem to be no end to the moisture and the racket. in town he have notice nothing. 
it can t be elped say rhoda. it s just what it doe do once in just so often. we d good go back. 
all earth under foot be slide in a thousand liquid noise towards the hoarse brook. somebody wail from the house. fraid o the water. come ere. fraid o the water. 
that s jimmy. wet always take im that way she explain. the idiot charge into them shake with terror. 
brave jimmy. how brave of jimmy. come into the hall. what jimmy get now. she croon. it be a sodden note which run. dear rhoda mr. lotten with whom i ride home this afternoon tell me that if this wet keep up he s afraid the fish pond he build last year where coxen s old mill dam be will go a the dam do once before he say. if it doe it s bind to come down the brook. it may be all right but perhaps you have good look out. c. s. 
if coxen s dam go that mean. i ll ave the draw room carpet up at once to be on the safe side. the claw ammer be in the libery. 
wait a minute. sidney s gate be out you say. 
both. he ll need it if coxen s pond go. i ve see it once. 
i ll just slip down and have a look at sidney. light the lantern again please rhoda. 
you win t get him to stir. he s be there since he be bear. but she don t know anything. i ll fetch your waterproof and some top boot. 
fraid o the water. fraid o the water. jimmy sob press against a corner of the hall his hand to his eye. 
all right jimmy. jimmy can help play with the carpet rhoda answer a midmore go forth into the darkness and the roaring all round. he have never see such an utterly unregulated state of affair. there be another lantern reflect on the stream drive. 
hi. rhoda. do you get my note. i come down to make sure. i think afterwards jimmy might funk the water. 
it s me miss sperrit midmore cry. yes we get it thank. 
you re back then. oh good. be it bad down with you. 
i m go to sidney s to have a look. 
you win t get him out. lucky i meet bob lotten. i tell him he hadn t any business impound water for his idiotic trout without rebuild the dam. 
how far up be it. i ve only be there once. 
not more than four mile a the water will come. he say he s open all the sluice. 
she have turn and fall into step beside him her hood head bow against the thin rain. a usual she be hum to herself. 
why on earth do you come out in this weather. midmore ask. 
it be bad when you be in town. the rain s take off now. if it wasn t for that pond i wouldn t worry so much. there s sidney s bell. come on. she break into a run. a crack bell be jangle feebly down the valley. 
keep on the road. midmore shout. the ditch be snort bank full on either side and towards the brook side the field be afloat and begin to move in the darkness. 
catch me go off it. there s his light burn all right. she halt undistressed at a little rise. but the flood s in the orchard. look. she swing her lantern to show a front rank of old apple tree reflect in still out lie water beyond the half drown hedge. they could hear above the thud thud of the gorge floodgate shriek in two key a monotonous a a steam organ. 
the high one s the pig. miss sperrit laugh. 
all right. i ll get her out. you stay where you be and i ll see you home afterwards. 
but the water s only just over the road she object. 
never mind. don t you move. promise. 
all right. you take my stick then and feel for hole in case anything s wash out anywhere. this be a lark. 
midmore take it and step into the water that move sluggishly a yet across the farm road which run to sidney s front door from the raise and metal public road. it be half way up to his knee when he knock. a he look back miss sperrit s lantern seem to float in mid ocean. 
you can t come in or the water ll come with you. i ve bung up all the crack mr. sidney shout from within. who be ye. 
take me out. take me out. the woman shriek and the pig from his sty behind the house urgently second the motion. 
i m midmore. coxen s old mill dam be likely to go they say. come out. 
i tell em it would when they make a fish pond of it. twasn t ever puddle proper. but it s a middlin wide valley. she s get room to spread. keep still or i ll take and duck you in the cellar. you go ome mu midmore an take the law o mu lotten soon s you ve change your sock. 
confound you aren t you come out. 
to catch my death o cold. i m all right where i be. i ve see it before. but you can take her. she s no sort o use or sense. climb out through the window. didn t i tell you i d plug the door crack you fool s daughter. the parlour window open and the woman fling herself into midmore s arm nearly knock him down. mr. sidney lean out of the window pipe in mouth. 
take her ome he say and add oracularly. 
two woman in one house two cat an one mouse two dog an one bone which i will leave alone. 
i ve see it before. then he shut and fasten the window. 
a trap. a trap. you have ought to have bring a trap for me. i ll be drown in this wet the woman cry. 
hold up. you can t be any wet than you be. come along. midmore do not at all like the feel of the water over his boot top. 
hooray. come along. miss sperrit s lantern not fifty yard away wave cheerily. 
the woman thresh towards it like a panic stricken goose fell on her knee be jerk up again by midmore and push on till she collapse at miss sperrit s foot. 
but you win t get bronchitis if you go straight to mr. midmore s house say the unsympathetic maiden. 
o gawd. o gawd. i wish our eavenly father ud forgive me my sin an call me ome the woman sob. but i win t go to be ouse. i win t. 
all right then. stay here. now if we run miss sperrit whisper to midmore she ll follow u. not too fast. 
they set off at a considerable trot and the woman lumber behind them bellow till they meet a third lantern rhoda hold jimmy s hand. she have get the carpet up she say and be escort jimmy past the water that he dread. 
that s all right miss sperrit pronounce. take mr. sidney back with you rhoda and put her to bed. i ll take jimmy with me. you aren t afraid of the water now be you jimmy. 
not afraid of anything now. jimmy reach for her hand. but get away from the water quick. 
i m come with you midmore interrupt. 
you most certainly be not. you re drench. she throw you twice. go home and change. you may have to be out again all night. it s only half past seven now. i m perfectly safe. she fling herself lightly over a stile and hurry uphill by the foot path out of reach of all but the boast of the flood below. 
rhoda dead silent herd mr. sidney to the house. 
you ll find your thing lay out on the bed she say to midmore a he come up. i ll attend to to this. she s get nothing to cry for. 
midmore race into dry kit and race uphill to be reward by the sight of the lantern just turn into the sperrits gate. he come back by way of sidney s farm where he saw the light twinkle across three acre of shin water for the rain have cease and the cloud be strip overhead though the brook be noisy than ever. now there be only that doubtful mill pond to look after that and his swirl world abandon to himself alone. 
we shall have to sit up for it say rhoda after dinner. and a the draw room command the best view of the rise flood they watch it from there for a long time while all the clock of the house bore them company. 
tisn t the water it s the mud on the skirt board after it go down that i mind rhoda whisper. the last time coxen s mill break i remember it come up to the second no third step o mr. sidney s stair. 
what do sidney do about it. 
he make a notch on the step. e say it be a record. just like im. 
it s up to the drive now say midmore after another long wait. and the rain stop before eight you know. 
then coxen s dam a break and that s the first of the flood water. she star out beside him. the water be rise in sudden pulse an inch or two at a time with great sweep and lagoon and a sudden increase of the brook s proper thunder. 
you can t stand all the time. take a chair midmore say presently. 
rhoda look back into the bare room. the carpet bein up doe make a difference. thank you sir i will ave a set down. 
right over the drive now say midmore. he open the window and lean out. be that wind up the valley rhoda. 
no that s it. but i ve see it before. 
there be not so much a roar a the purposeful drive of a tide across a jag reef which put down every other sound for twenty minute. a wide sheet of water hurry up to the little terrace on which the house stand push round either corner rise again and stretch a it be yawn beneath the moonlight join other sheet wait for them in unsuspected hollow and lay out all in one. a puff of wind follow. 
it s right up to the wall now. i can touch it with my finger. midmore bend over the window sill. 
i can ear it in the cellar say rhoda dolefully. well we ve do what we can. i think i ll ave a look. she leave the room and be absent half an hour or more during which time he saw a full grow tree haul itself across the lawn by it naked root. then a hurdle knock against the wall catch on an iron foot scraper just outside and make a square head ripple. the cascade through the cellar window diminish. 
it s drop rhoda cry a she return. it s only tricklin into my cellar now. 
wait a minute. i believe i believe i can see the scraper on the edge of the drive just show. 
in another ten minute the drive itself roughen and become gravel again tilt all it water towards the shrubbery. 
the pond s go past rhoda announce. we shall only ave the common flood to contend with now. you d good go to bed. 
i ought to go down and have another look at sidney before daylight. 
no need. you can see be light burnin from all the upstairs window. 
by the way. i forget about her. where ve you put her. 
in my bed. rhoda s tone be ice. i wasn t go to undo a room for that stuff. 
but it it couldn t be help say midmore. she be half drown. one mustn t be narrow mind rhoda even if her position isn t quite er regular. 
pfff. i wasn t worryin about that. she lean forward to the window. there s the edge of the lawn showin now. it fall a fast a it rise. dearie the change of tone make midmore jump didn t you know that i be be first. that s what make it so hard to bear. midmore look at the long lizard like back and have no word. 
she go on still talk through the black window pane. 
your pore dear auntie be very kind about it. she say she d make all allowance for one but no more. never any more. then you didn t know oo charlie be all this time. 
your nephew i always think. 
well well she speak pityingly. everybody s business be nobody s business i suppose no one think to tell you. but charlie make be own way for imself from the beginnin. but her upstairs she never produce anything. just an ousekeeper a you might say. turn over an go to sleep straight off. she ad the impudence to ask me for ot sherry gruel. 
do you give it to her say midmore. 
me. your sherry. no. 
the memory of sidney s outrageous rhyme at the window and charlie s long nose. he think it look interest at the time. a he pass the copy of mr. werf s last four will overcome midmore without warn. 
this damp be givin you a cold say rhoda rise. there you go again. sneezin s a sure sign of it. good go to bed. you can t do any thin excep she stand rigid with cross arm about me. 
well. what about you. midmore stuff the handkerchief into his pocket. 
now you know about it what be you goin to do sir. 
she have the answer on her lean cheek before the sentence be finish. 
go and see if you can get u something to eat rhoda. and beer. 
i expec the larder ll be in a swim she reply but old bottle stuff don t take any harm from wet. she return with a tray all in order and they eat and drink together and take observation of the fall flood till dawn open it blear eye on the wreck of what have be a fair garden. midmore cold and annoy find himself hum. 
that flood strew wreck upon the grass that ebb sweep out the flock to sea. 
there isn t a rise leave rhoda. 
an awesome ebb and flow it be to many more than mine and me. but each will mourn his. 
it ll cost me a hundred. 
now we know the bad say rhoda we can go to bed. i ll lay on the kitchen sofa. his light s burnin still. 
and she. 
dirty old cat. you ought to ear er snore. 
at ten o clock in the morning after a madden hour in his own garden on the edge of the retreat brook midmore go off to confront more damage at sidney s. the first thing that meet him be the pig snowy white for the water have wash him out of his new sty call on high heaven for breakfast. the front door have be force open and the flood have register it own height in a brown dado on the wall. midmore chase the pig out and call up the stair. 
i be abed o course. which step a she rise to. sidney cry from above. the fourth. then it s beat all record. come up. 
be you ill. midmore ask a he enter the room. the red eyelid blink cheerfully. mr. sidney beneath a sumptuous patch work quilt be smoke. 
nah. i m only thankin god i ain t my own landlord. take that cheer. what s she do. 
it hasn t go down enough for me to make sure. 
them floodgate o yourn ll be middlin far down the brook by now. an your rise garden have go after em. i save my chicken though. you d good get mu sperrit to take the law o lotten an be fish pond. 
no thank. i ve trouble enough without that. 
hev ye. mr. sidney grin. how do ye make out with those two woman o mine last night. i lay they fight. 
you infernal old scoundrel. midmore laugh. 
i be an then again i bain t be the placid answer. but rhoda she wouldn t ha leave me last night. fire or flood she wouldn t. 
why didn t you ever marry her. midmore ask. 
waste of good money. she be willin without. 
there be a step on the gritty mud below and a voice hum. midmore rise quickly say. well i suppose you re all right now. 
i be. i ain t a landlord nor i ain t young nor anxious. oh mu midmore. would it make any odds about her thirty pound comin regular if i marry her. charlie say maybe twould. 
do he. midmore turn at the door. and what do jimmy say about it. 
jimmy. mr. sidney chuckle a the joke take him. oh he s none o mine. he s charlie s look out. 
midmore slam the door and run downstairs. 
well this be a sweet mess say miss sperrit in short skirt and heavy rid boot. i have to come down and have a look at it. the old mayor climb the belfry tower. be up all night nurse your family. 
nearly that. isn t it cheerful. he point through the door to the stair with small twig drift on the last three tread. 
it s a record though say she and hum to herself. 
that flood strew wreck upon the grass that ebb sweep out the flock to sea. 
you re always sing that aren t you. midmore say suddenly a she pass into the parlour where slimy chair have be strand at all angle. 
be i. now i come to think of it i believe i do. they say i always hum when i ride. have you notice it. 
of course i have. i notice every. 
oh she go on hurriedly. we have it for the village cantata last winter the bride of enderby. 
no. high tide on the coast of lincolnshire. for some reason midmore speak sharply. 
just like that. she point to the befoul wall. i say. let s get this furniture a little straight. you know it too. 
every word since you sing it of course. 
when. 
the first night i ever come down. you ride past the draw room window in the dark sing it and sweet woman. 
i think the house be empty then. your aunt always let u use that short cut. ha hadn t we good get this out into the passage. it ll all have to come out anyhow. you take the other side. they begin to lift a heavyish table. their word come jerkily between gasp and their face be a white a a newly wash and very hungry pig. 
look out. midmore shout. his leg be whirl from under him a the table grunt madly careen and knock the girl out of sight. 
the wild boar of asia could not have cut down a couple more scientifically but this little pig lack his ancestor s nerve and flee shriek over their body. 
be you hurt darling. be midmore s first word and no i m only wind dear be miss sperrit s a he lift her out of her corner her hat over one eye and her right cheek a smear of mud. 
they feed him a little late on some chicken fee that they find in sidney s quiet barn a pail of buttermilk out of the dairy and a quantity of onion from a shelf in the back kitchen. 
seed onion most likely say connie. you ll hear about this. 
what doe it matter. they ought to have be gild. we must buy him. 
and keep him a long a he life she agree. but i think i ought to go home now. you see when i come out i didn t expect. do you. 
no. yes. it have to come. but if any one have tell me an hour ago. sidney s unspeakable parlour and the mud on the carpet. 
oh i say. be my cheek clean now. 
not quite. lend me your hanky again a minute darling. what a purler you come. 
you can t talk. remember when your chin hit that table and you say blast. i be just go to laugh. 
you didn t laugh when i pick you up. you be go oo oo oo like a little owl. 
my dear child. 
say that again. 
my dear child. do you really like it. i keep it for my best friend. my dee ar child i think i be go to be sick there and then. he knock every ounce of wind out of me the angel. but i must really go. 
they set off together very careful not to join hand or take arm. 
not across the field say midmore at the stile. come round by by your own place. 
she flush indignantly. 
it will be yours in a little time he go on shake with his own audacity. 
not so much of your little time if you please. she shy like a colt across the road. then instantly like a colt her eye light with new curiosity a she come in sight of the drive gate. 
and not quite so much of your air and grace madam midmore return or i win t let you use our drive a a short cut any more. 
oh i ll be good. i ll be good. her voice change suddenly. i swear i ll try to be good dear. i m not much of a thing at the best. what make you. 
i m bad bad. mile and ocean bad. but what doe it matter now. 
they halt beside the gate pillar. 
i see. she say look up the sodden carriage sweep to the front door porch where rhoda be slap a wet mat to and fro. i see. now i really must go home. no. don t you come. i must speak to mother first all by myself. 
he watch her up the hill till she be out of sight. 
the flood. 
the rain it rain without a stay in the hill above u in the hill. and presently the flood break way whose strength be in the hill. the tree they suck from every cloud the valley brook they roar aloud bank high for the lowland lowland lowland under the hill. 
the first wood down be sere and small from the hill the brishings off the hill. and then come by the bat and all we cut last year in the hill. and then the root we try to cleave but find too tough and have to leave polting through the lowland lowland lowland under the hill. 
the eye shall look the ear shall hark to the hill the do in the hill and river mat in the dark with token from the hill. now what be weak will surely go and what be strong must prove it so. stand fast in the lowland lowland lowland under the hill. 
the flood they shall not be afraid nor the hill above em nor the hill of any fence which man ha make betwixt him and the hill. the water shall not reckon twice for any work of man s device but bid it down to the lowland lowland lowland under the hill. 
the flood shall sweep corruption clean by the hill the bless of the hill that more the meadow may be green new amend from the hill. the crop and cattle shall increase nor little child shall not cease go plough the lowland lowland lowland under the hill. 
the fabulist. 
when all the world would have a matter hide since truth be seldom friend to any crowd men write in fable a old æsop do jest at that which none will name aloud. and this they need must do or it will fall unless they please they be not hear at all. 
when desperate folly daily laboureth to work confusion upon all we have when diligent sloth demandeth freedom s death and band fear commandeth honour s grave even in that certain hour before the fall unless men please they be not hear at all. 
need must all please yet some not all for need need must all toil yet some not all for gain but that men take pleasure may take heed whom present toil shall snatch from late pain. thus some have toil but their reward be small since though they please they be not hear at all. 
this be the lock that lay upon our lip this be the yoke that we have undergo deny u all pleasant fellowship a in our time and generation. our pleasure unpursued age past recall. and for our pain we be not hear at all. 
what man hear aught except the groan gun. what man heed aught save what each instant bring. when each man s life all image life outrun what man shall pleasure in imagine. so it hath fall a it be bind to fall we be not nor we be not hear at all. 
the vortex. 
august. 
thy lord speak by inspiration to the bee. 
al koran. 
i have to my grief and loss suppress several notable story of my friend the hon. a. m. penfentenyou[ ] once minister of wood and wayside in de thouar s first administration. late premier in all but name of one of our great and grow dominion. and now a always the idol of his own province which be two and one half the size of england. 
[footnote. see the puzzler action and reaction. ]. 
for this reason i hold myself at liberty to deal with some portion of the truth concern penfentenyou s late visit to our shore. he arrive at my house by car on a hot summer day in a white waistcoat and spat sweep black frock coat and glisten top hat a little round perhaps at the edge but agile a ever in mind and body. 
what be the trouble now. i ask for the last time we have meet penfentenyou be float a three million pound loan for his beloved but unscrupulous province and i do not wish to entertain any more of his financial friend. 
we penfentenyou reply ambassadorially have come to have a voice in your council. by the way the voice be come down on the even train with my agent general. i think you wouldn t mind if i invite em. you know we re go to share your burden henceforward. you d good get into train. 
certainly i reply. what s the voice like. 
he s in earnest say penfentenyou. he s get it and he s get it bad. he ll give it to you he say. 
what s his name. 
we call him all sort of name but i think you d good call him mr. lingnam. you win t have to do it more than once. 
what s he suffer from. 
the empire. he s pretty nearly cure u all of imperialism at home. p rap he ll cure you. 
very good. what be i to do with him. 
don t you worry say penfentenyou. he ll do it. 
and when mr. lingnam appear half an hour late with the agent general for penfentenyou s dominion he do just that. 
he advance across the lawn eloquent a all the tide. he say he have be observe to the agent general that it be both politically immoral and strategically unsound that forty four million people should bear the entire weight of the defence of our mighty empire but a he have observe. here the agent general evaporate. we stand now upon the threshold of a new era in which the self govern and self respect. bi. dominion would rightly and righteously a co partner in empery shoulder their share of any burden which the pan imperial council of the future should allot. the agent general be already arrange for drink with penfentenyou at the other end of the garden. mr. lingnam sweep me on to the most remote bench and settle to his theme. 
we din at eight. at nine mr. lingnam be only draw abreast of thing imperial. at ten the agent general who earn his salary be shamelessly doze on the sofa. at eleven he and penfentenyou go to bed. at midnight mr. lingnam bring down his big belly despatch box with the newspaper clipping and set to federate the empire in earnest. i remember that he have three alternative plan. a a dealer in word i plump for the resonant third reciprocally co ordinate senatorial hegemony which he then elaborate in detail for three quarter of an hour. at half past one he urge me to have faith and to remember that nothing matter except the idea. then he retire to his room accompany by one glass of cold water and i go into the dawn light garden and pray to any power that might be off duty for the blood of mr. lingnam penfentenyou and the agent general. 
to me a i have often observe elsewhere the hour of early dawn be fortunate and the wind that run before it ha ever be my most comfortable counsellor. 
wait. it say all among the night s expectant rosebud. to morrow be also a day. wait upon the event. 
i go to bed so at peace with god and man and guest that when i wake i visit mr. lingnam in pyjama and he talk to me pan imperially for half an hour before his bath. late the agent general say he have letter to write and penfentenyou invent a cabinet crisis in his adore dominion which would keep him busy with code and cable all the forenoon. but i say firmly mr. lingnam wish to see a little of the country round here. you be come with u in your own car. 
it s a hire one penfentenyou object. 
yes. pay for by me a a taxpayer i reply. 
and yours ha a top and the weather look thundery say the agent general. ours hasn t a wind screen. even our goggle be hire. 
i ll lend you goggle i say. my car be under repair. 
the hireling who have look to be return to london spat and growl on the drive. she be an open car capable of some eighteen mile on the flat with tetanic gear and a perpetual palsy. 
it win t make the least difference sigh the agent general. he ll only raise his voice. he do it all the way come down. 
i say say penfentenyou suspiciously what be you do all this for. 
love of the empire i answer a mr. lingnam trip up in dust coat and binoculars. now mr. lingnam will tell u exactly what he want to see. he probably know more about england than the rest of u put together. 
i read it up yesterday say mr. lingnam simply. while we stow the lunch basket. one can never make too sure with a hire car. he outline a very pretty and instructive little day s run. 
you ll drive of course. say penfentenyou to him. it s the only thing you know anything about. 
this astonish me for your great federationists be rarely mechanicians but mr. lingnam say he would prefer to be inside for the present and enjoy our conversation. 
well settle on the back seat he do not once lift his eye to the mellow landscape around him or throw a word at the life of the english road which to me be one renew and unreasoned orgy of delight. the mustard colour scout of the automobile association. their natural enemy the unjust police. our natural enemy the deliberate market day cattle broadside on at all corner the bicycle butch boy a furlong behind. road engine that pull giddy go round rifle gallery and swing and suck snortingly from wayside pond in defiance of the notice board. traction engine their trailer pile high with road metal. uniform village nurse one per seven statute mile flit by on their wheel. govern cart full of pink child jog unconcernedly past roar brazen tour car. the wayside rector with virgin in attendance their face screw up against our dust. motor bicycle of every shape charge down at every angle. red flag of rifle range. detachment of dusty putteed territorial. covey of flagrant child play in mid street and the wise educate english dog safe and quite silent on the pavement if his fool mistress would but cease from try to save him pass and repassed u in sunlit or shade setting. but mr. lingnam only talk. he talk we all sit together behind so that we could not escape him and he talk above the wear gear and a certain madden swish of one badly patch tire and he talk of the federation of the empire against all conceivable danger except himself. yet i be neither brutally rude like penfentenyou nor swooningly bore like the agent general. i remember a certain joseph finsbury who delight the tregonwell arm on the border of the new forest with nine it should have be ten version of a single income of two hundred pound place the imaginary person in but i could not recall the list of town further than london paris bagdad and spitsbergen. this last i must have murmur aloud for the agent general suddenly become human and go on. bussorah heligoland and the scilly island. 
what. growl penfentenyou. 
nothing say the agent general squeeze my hand affectionately. only we have just find out that we be brother. 
exactly say mr. lingnam. that s what i ve be try to lead up to. we re all brother. d you realise that fifteen year ago such a conversation a we re have would have be unthinkable. the empire wouldn t have be ripe for it. to go back even ten year. 
i ve get it cry the agent general. brighton cincinnati and nijni novgorod. god bless r. l. s. go on uncle joseph. i can endure much now. 
mr. lingnam go on like our shandrydan slowly and loudly. he admit that a man obsess with a central idea and after all the only thing that matter be the idea might become a bore but the world s work he point out have be do by bore. so he lay his bone down to that work till we abandon ourselves to the passage of time and the mercy of allah who alone close the mouth of his prophet. and we waste more than fifty mile of summer s vivid own england upon him the while. 
about two o clock we top sumtner rise and look down on the village of sumtner barton which lie just across a single railway line span by a red brick bridge. the thick thunderous june air bring u gust of melody from a giddy go round steam organ in full blast near the pond on the village green. drum too thump and banner wave and regalia flash at the far end of the broad village street. mr. lingnam ask why. 
nothing imperial i m afraid. it look like a forester fête one of our big mutual benefit society i explain. 
the idea only need to be co ordinate to imperial scale he begin. 
but it mean that the pub. will be crowd i go on. 
what s the matter with lunch by the roadside here. say penfentenyou. we ve get the lunch basket. 
haven t you ever hear of sumtner barton ale. i demand and be become the administrator at once say i see. lingnam can drive u in and we ll get some while holford this be the hireling chauffeur whose view on beer we know not lay out lunch here. that ll be good than eat at the pub. we can take in the forester fête a well and perhaps i can buy some newspaper at the station. 
true i answer. the railway station be just under that bridge and we ll come back and lunch here. 
i indicate a terrace of cool clean shade beneath kindly beech at the head of sumtner rise. a holford get out the lunch basket a detachment of regular troop on manoeuvre swing down the bake road. 
ah. say mr. lingnam the monthly magazine roll in his voice. all europe be an arm camp groan a i remember i once write under the weight of it accoutrement. 
oh hop in and drive cry penfentenyou. we want that beer. 
it make no difference. mr. lingnam could have federate the empire from a tight rope. he continue his oration at the wheel a we trundle. 
the danger to the young nation be of be draw into this vortex of militarism he go on dodge the rear of the soldiery. 
slow past troop i hint. it save em dust. and we overtake on the right a a rule in england. 
thank. mr. lingnam slue over. that s another detail which need to be co ordinate throughout the empire. but to go back to what i be say. my idea ha always be that the component part of the empire should take counsel among themselves on the approach of war so that after we have decide on the merit of the casus belli_ we can co ordinate what part each dominion shall play whenever war be unfortunately a possibility. 
we near the hog back railway bridge and the hireling knock piteously at the grade. mr. lingnam change gear and she hoist herself up to a joyous youp i addy i ay. from the steam organ. a we top the arch we saw a forester band with banner march down the street. 
that s all very fine say the agent general but in real life thing have a knack of happen without approach. 
* * * * *. 
some school of think hold that time be not. and that when we attain complete enlightenment we shall behold past present and future a one awful whole. i myself have nearly achieve this. 
* * * * *. 
we dip over the bridge into the village. a boy on a bicycle load with four paper bonnet box pedal towards u out of an alley on our right. he bow his head the good to overcome the ascent and naturally take his leave. mr. lingnam swerve frantically to the right. penfentenyou shout. the boy look up saw the car be like to squeeze him against the bridge wall fling himself off his machine and across the narrow pavement into the near house. he slam the door at the precise moment when the car all brake set bunt the abandon bicycle shatter three of the bonnet box and jerk the fourth over the unscreened dashboard into mr. lingnam s arm. 
there be a dead stillness then a hiss like that of escape steam and a man who have be run towards u run the other way. 
why. i think that those must be bee say mr. lingnam. 
they be four full swarm and the first live object which he have remark upon all day. 
some one say oh god. the agent general go out over the back of the car cry resolutely. stop the traffic. stop the traffic there. penfentenyou be already on the pavement ring a door bell so i have both their rug which for i be an apiarist i throw over my head. while i be tuck my trouser into my sock for i be an apiarist of experience mr. lingnam pick up the unexploded bonnet box and with a single magnificent gesture. he tell u afterwards he think there be a river beneath. hurl it over the parapet of the bridge ere he run across the road towards the village green. now the station platform immediately below be crowd with forester and their friend wait to welcome a delegation from a sister court. i saw the box burst on the flint edge of the station garden and the content sweep forward cone wise like shrapnel. but the result be stimulate rather than sedative. all those well dress people below shout like sodom and gomorrah. then they move a a unit into the book office the wait room and other place shut door and window and declaim aloud while the incoming train whistle far down the line. 
i pivot round cross legged on the back seat like a circassian beauty beneath her veil and saw penfentenyou his coat collar over his ear dance before a shut door and hold up handful of currency to a silver haired woman at an upper window who only mouth and shake her head. a little child carry a kitten come smile round a corner. suddenly. but these thing move me no more than so many yard of three penny cinematograph film. the kitten leap spit from her arm the child burst into tear penfentenyou still dance snatch her up and tuck her under his coat the woman s countenance blanch the front door open penfentenyou and the child press through and i be alone in an inhospitable world where every one be shut window and call child home. 
a voice cry. you ve frowtened em. you ve frowtened em. throw dust on em and they ll settle. 
i do not desire to throw dust on any create thing. i need both hand for my drapery and two more for my stocking. besides the bee be do me no hurt. they recognise me a a member of the county bee keeper association who have pay his annual subscription and be entitle to a free seat at all apicultural exhibition. the quiver and the churn of the hireling car or it might have be the lurch banner and the arrogant big drum incline many of them to go up street and pay court to the advance forester band. so they go such a have not follow mr. lingnam in his flight toward the green and i look out of two goggle eye instead of half a one at the approach musician while i listen with both ear to the delay train s second whistle down the line beneath me. 
the fore s band no more know what be come than do troop under sudden fire. indeed there be the same extravagant gesture and contortion a attend wound and death in war. the very same uncanny cessation of speech for the trombone be cut off at midslide even a a man drop with a syllable on his tongue. they claw they slap they flee leave behind them a trophy of banner and brass crudely arrange round the big drum. then that end of the street also shut it window and the village strip of life lay round me like a reef at low tide. though i be a i have say an apiarist in good stand i never realise that there be so many bee in the world. when they have weave a flash haze from one end of the desert street to the other there remain reserve enough to form knops and pendules on all window sill and gutter end without diminish the multitude in the three ooze bonnet box or draw on the fourth. railway. battalion in charge of the station below. the prisoner in the wait room and other place there cry out a great deal. i argue that they be die of the heat. and at regular interval the stationmaster call and call to a signalman who be not on duty and the train whistle a it draw near. 
then penfentenyou venal and adaptable politician of the type that survive at the price of all the high emotion appear at the window of the house on my right break and congest with mirth the woman beside him and the child in his arm. i saw his mouth open and shut he hollow his hand round it but the churr of the motor and the bee drown his word. he point dramatically across the street many time and fell back tear run down his face. i turn like a hood barbette in a heavy seaway. not know when my trouser would come out of my sock again. through one hundred and eighty degree and in due time bore on the village green. there be a salmon in the pond rise short at a cloud of midge to the tune of yip i addy. but there be none to gaff him. the swing boat be empty cocoa nut sit still on their red stick before white screen and the gay paint horse of the giddy go round revolve riderless. all be melody green turf bright water and this greedy gambol fish. when i have identify it by it grey gill and binoculars a lingnam i prostrate myself before allah in that mirth which be more truly labour than any prayer. then i turn to the purple penfentenyou at the window and wipe my eye on the rug edge. 
he raise the window half one cautious inch and bellow through the crack. do you see him. have they get you. i can see lot of thing from here. it s like a three ring circus. 
can you see the station. i reply nod toward the right rear mudguard. 
he twist and crane sideways but could not command that beautiful view. 
no. what s it like. he cry. 
hell. i shout. the silver haired woman frown. so do penfentenyou and i think apologise to her for my language. 
you re always so extreme he flute reproachfully. you forget that nothing matter except the idea. besides they be this lady s bee. 
he close the window and introduce u through it in dumb show. but he contrive to give the impression that i be the specimen under glass. 
a spurt of damp steam save me from apoplexy. the train have lose patience at last and be come into the station directly beneath me to see what be the matter. happy voice sing and head be thrust out all along the compartment but none answer their song or greeting. she halt and the people begin to get out. then they begin to get in again a their friend in the wait room advise. all do not catch the warn so there be congestion at the door but those whom the bee catch get in first. 
still the bee more bend on their own business than wanton torture keep to the south end of the platform by the bookstall and that be why the completely expose engine driver at the north end of the train do not at first understand the hermetically seal stationmaster when the latter shout to him many time to get on out o this. 
where be you. be the reply. and what for. 
it don t matter where i be an you ll get what for in a minute if you don t shift say the stationmaster. drop em at parson s meadow and they can walk up over the field. 
that bare arm thin shirt idiot lean out of the cab take the stationmaster s order a an insult to his dignity and roar at the shut office. you ll give me what for will you. look ere i m not in the abit of his outstretched hand fly to his neck. do you know that if you sting an engine driver it be the same a sting his train. she start with a jerk that nearly smash the coupling and run bark like a dog till she be out of sight. nor doe she think about spill people and part family on the platform behind her. i have to do all that. there be a man call fred and his wife harriet a cheery full blood couple who interest me immensely before they batter their way into a small detach build already densely occupy. there be also a nameless bachelor who sit under a half open umbrella and twirl it dizzily which be so new a game that i applaud aloud. 
when they have thoroughly clear the grind the bee set about make comb for publication at the bookstall counter. presently some bold heart tiptoe out of the wait room over the loud gravel with the consciously modest air of men leave church climb the wooden staircase to the bridge and so reach my level where the inexhaustible bonnet box be still vomit squadron and platoon. there be little need to bid them descend. they have wrap their head in handkerchief so that they look like the disappoint dead scuttle back to purgatory. only one old gentleman pontifically drape in a banner embroider temperance and fortitude run the gauntlet up street shout a he pass me it s night or blücher mister. they let him in at the white hart the pub. where i should have buy the beer. 
after this the day sag. i fell to reckon how long a man in a turkish bath weaken by excessive laughter could live without food and specially drink. and how long a disenfranchise bee could hold out under the same condition. 
obviously since her one practical joke cost her her life the bee can have but small sense of humour. but her fundamentally dismal and ungracious outlook on life impress me beyond word. she have paralyse locomotion wipe out trade social intercourse mutual trust love friendship sport music. the lonely steam organ have run down at last. all that give substance colour or savour to life and yet in the barren desert she have create be not one whit more near to the evolution of a sane order of thing. the heaven be darken with the swarm divide counsel. the street shimmer with their purposeless sally. they clot on tile and gutter pipe and begin frenziedly to build a cell or two of comb ere they discover that their queen be not with them. then fling off to seek her or whirl dishevel and insane into another hiss nebula on the false rumour that she be there. i scowl upon them with disfavour and a massy blue thunder head rise majestically from behind the elm tree of sumtner barton rectory arch over and scowl with me. then i realise that it be not bee nor locust that have darken the sky but the on come of the malignant english thunderstorm the one thing before which even deborah the bee cannot express her silly little self. 
aha. now you ll catch it i say a the herald gust set the big drum roll down the street like a box kite. up and up yearn the dark cloud till the first lightning quiver and cut. deborah cower. where she fly there she flee. where she be there she sit still. and the solid rain close in on her a a book that be close when the chapter be finish. by the time it have soak to my second rug penfentenyou appear at the window wipe his false mouth on a napkin. 
be you all right. he inquire. then that s all right. mr. bellamy say that her bee don t sting in the wet. you d good fetch lingnam over. he s get to pay for them and the bicycle. 
i have no word which the silver haired lady could listen to but paddle across the flood street between flash to the pond on the green. mr. lingnam scarcely visible through the sheet downpour trot round the edge. he bore himself nobly and lie at the mere sight of me. 
isn t this wet. he cry. it ha drench me to the skin. i shall need a change. 
come along i say. i don t know what you ll get but you deserve more. 
penfentenyou dry feed and in command let u in. you he whisper to me be to wait in the scullery. mr. bellamy didn t like the way you talk about her bee. hsh. hsh. she s a kind hearted lady. she s a widow lingnam but she s keep his clothe and a soon a you ve pay for the damage she ll rent you a suit. i ve arrange it all. 
then tell him he mustn t undress in my hall say a voice from the stair head. 
tell her lingnam begin. 
come and look at the pretty suit i ve choose penfentenyou coo a one cajole a maniac. 
i stagger out of door again and fell into the car whose ever run machinery mask my yelp and hiccup. when i raise my forehead from the wheel i saw that traffic through the village have be resume after a my watch show one and one half hour s suspension. there be two limousine one landau one doctor s car three tour car one patent steam laundry van three tricars one traction engine some motor cycle one with a side car and one brewery lorry. it be the allegory of my own imperturbable country delay for a short time by unforeseen external event but now go about her business and i bless her with tear in my eye even though i know she look upon me a drink and incapable. 
then troop come over the bridge behind me a company of drip wet regular without any expression. in their rear carry the lunch basket march the agent general and holford the hire chauffeur. 
i say say the agent general nod at the darken khaki back. if that s what we ve get to depend on in event of war they re a break reed. they run like hare run like hare i tell you. 
and you. i ask. 
oh i just saunter back over the bridge and stop the traffic that end. then i have lunch. pity about the beer though. i say these cushion be sop wet. 
i m sorry i say. i haven t have time to turn em. 
nor there wasn t any need to ave keep the engine runnin all this time say holford sternly. i ll ave to account for the expenditure of petrol. it exceed the mileage indicate you see. 
i m sorry i repeat. after all that be the way that taxpayer regard most crisis. 
the house door open and penfentenyou and another come out into the now thin rain. 
ah. there you both be. here s lingnam he cry. he s get a little wet. he s have to change. 
we saw that. i be too sore and weak to begin another laugh but the agent general crumple up where he stand. the late mr. bellamy must have be a man of tremendous personality which he have impress on every angle of his garment. i be tell late that he have die in delirium tremens which at once explain the pattern and the reason why mr. lingnam writhe inside it swear so inspiredly. of the deliberate and diffuse federationist there remain no trace save the binoculars and two damp whisker. we stand on the pavement before elemental man call on elemental power to condemn and incinerate creation. 
well hadn t we good be get back. say the agent general. 
look out. i remark casually. those bonnet box be full of bee still. 
be they. say the livid mr. lingnam and tilt them over with the late mr. bellamy s large boot. deborah roll out in drench lump into the swill gutter. there be a muffle shriek at the window where mr. bellamy gesticulate. 
it s all right. i ve pay for them say mr. lingnam. he dump out the last dreg like mould from a pot bind flower pot. 
what. be you go to take em home with you. say the agent general. 
no. he pass a wet hand over his streaky forehead. wasn t there a bicycle that be the begin of this trouble. say he. 
it s under the fore axle sir say holford promptly. i can fish it out from ere. 
not till i ve do with it please. before we could stop him he have jump into the car and take charge. the hireling leap into her collar surge shriek. le loudly than mr. bellamy at the window. and sweep on. that which come out behind her be a holford truly observe no joy wheel. mr. lingnam swing round the big drum in the market place and thunder back shout. leave it alone. it s my meat. 
mince meat e mean say holford after this second trituration. you couldn t say now it ad ever be one could you. 
mr. bellamy open the window and speak. it appear she have only charge for damage to the bicycle not for the entire machine which mr. lingnam be ruthlessly glean speak by speak from the highway and cram into the slack of the hood. at last he answer and i have never see a man foam at the mouth before. if you don t stop i shall come into your house in this car and drive upstairs and kill you. 
she stop. he stop. holford take the wheel and we get away. it be time for the sun shine after the storm and deborah beneath the tile and the eaves already felt it revive influence compel her to her interrupt labour of federation. we warn the village policeman at the far end of the street that he might have to suspend traffic again. the proprietor of the giddy go round swing and cocoanut shy want to know from whom in this world or another he could recover damage. mr. lingnam refer him most directly to mr. bellamy. then we go home. 
after dinner that even mr. lingnam rise stiffly in his place to make a few remark on the federation of the empire on the line of co ordinate offensive operation back by the entire effective force moral military and fiscal of permanently mobilise community the whole bring to bear without any respect to the merit of any casus belli_ instantaneously automatically and remorselessly at the first faint buzz of war. 
the trouble with u say he be that we take such an infernally long time make sure that we be right that we don t go ahead when thing happen. for instance i ought to have go ahead instead of pull up when i hit that bicycle. 
but you be in the wrong lingnam when you turn to the right i put in. 
i don t want to hear any more of your damn detach mugwumping excuse for the other fellow he snap. 
now you re begin to see thing say penfentenyou. i hope you win t backslide when the swelling go down. 
the song of seven city. 
i be lord of city very sumptuously build. seven roar city pay me tribute from afar. ivory their outpost be the guardroom of them gild and garrison with amazon invincible in war. 
all the world go softly when it walk before my city neither king nor army vex my people at their toil. never horse nor chariot irk or overbear my city never mob nor ruler question whence they draw their spoil. 
band mail and arrogant from sunrise unto sunset sing while they sack it they possess the land at large. yet when men would rob them they resist they make onset and pierce the smoke of battle with a thousand sabre charge. 
so they war and traffic only yesterday my city. to day there be no mark or mound of where my city stand. for the river rise at midnight and it wash away my city. they be even with atlantis and the town before the flood. 
rain on rain gorge channel raise the water level round them freshet back on freshet swell and sweep their world from sight till the embolden flood link arm and flash forward drown them drown my seven city and their people in one night. 
low among the alder lie their derelict foundation the beam wherein they trust and the plinth whereon they build my ruler and their treasure and their unborn population dead destroy abort and defile with mud and silt. 
the daughter of the palace whom they cherish in my city my silver tongue princess and the promise of their may their bridegroom of the june tide all have perish in my city with the harsh envenom virgin that can neither love nor play. 
i be lord of city i will build anew my city seven set on rock above the wrath of any flood. nor will i rest from search till i have fill anew my city with people undefeated of the dark endure blood. 
to the sound of trumpet shall their seed restore my city. wealthy and well weaponed that once more may i behold all the world go softly when it walk before my city and the horse and the chariot flee from them a of old. 
sweep and garnish. 
january. 
when the first wave of feverish cold steal over frau ebermann she very wisely telephone for the doctor and go to bed. he diagnose the attack a mild influenza prescribe the appropriate remedy and leave her to the care of her one servant in her comfortable berlin flat. frau ebermann beneath the thick coverlet curl up with what patience she could until the aspirin should begin to act and anna should come back from the chemist with the formamint the ammoniate quinine the eucalyptus and the little tin steam inhaler. meantime every bone in her body ache. her head throb. her hot dry hand would not stay the same size for a minute together. and her body tuck into the small possible compass shrink from the chill of the well warm sheet. 
of a sudden she notice that an imitation lace cover which should have lie mathematically square with the imitation marble top of the radiator behind the green plush sofa have slip away so that one corner hang over the bronze paint steam pipe. she recall that she must have rest her poor head against the radiator top while she be take off her boot. she try to get up and set the thing straight but the radiator at once recede toward the horizon which unlike true horizon slant diagonally exactly parallel with the drop lace edge of the cover. frau ebermann groan through sticky lip and lay still. 
certainly i have a temperature she say. certainly i have a grave temperature. i should have be warn by that chill after dinner. 
she resolve to shut her hot lidded eye but open them in a little while to torture herself with the knowledge of that ungeometrical thing against the far wall. then she saw a child an untidy thin face little girl of about ten who must have stray in from the adjoin flat. this prove frau ebermann groan again at the way the world fall to bit when one be sick prove that anna have forget to shut the out door of the flat when she go to the chemist. frau ebermann have have child of her own but they be all grow up now and she have never be a child lover in any sense. yet the intruder might be make to serve her scheme of thing. 
make put she mutter thickly that white thing straight on the top of that yellow thing. 
the child pay no attention but move about the room investigate everything that come in her way the yellow cut glass handle of the chest of drawer the stamp bronze hook to hold back the heavy puce curtain and the mauve enamel new art finger plate on the door. frau ebermann watch indignantly. 
aie. that be bad and rude. go away. she cry though it hurt her to raise her voice. go away by the road you come. the child pass behind the bed foot where she could not see her. shut the door a you go. i will speak to anna but first put that white thing straight. 
she close her eye in misery of body and soul. the out door click and anna enter very penitent that she have stay so long at the chemist s. but it have be difficult to find the proper type of inhaler and. 
where do the child go. moan frau ebermann the child that be here. 
there be no child say startle anna. how should any child come in when i shut the door behind me after i go out. all the key of the flat be different. 
no no. you forget this time. but my back be ache and up my leg also. besides who know what it may have finger and upset. look and see. 
nothing be finger nothing be upset anna reply a she take the inhaler from it paper box. 
yes there be. now i remember all about it. put put that white thing with the open edge the lace i mean quite straight on that she point. anna accustom to her way understand and go to it. 
now be it quite straight. frau ebermann demand. 
perfectly say anna. in fact in the very centre of the radiator. anna measure the equal margin with her knuckle a she have be tell to do when she first take service. 
and my tortoise shell hair brush. frau ebermann could not command her dress table from where she lay. 
perfectly straight side by side in the big tray and the comb lay across them. your watch also in the coralline watch holder. everything she move round the room to make sure everything be a you have it when you be well. frau ebermann sigh with relief. it seem to her that the room and her head have suddenly grow cool. 
good. say she. now warm my night gown in the kitchen so it will be ready when i have perspire. and the towel also. make the inhaler steam and put in the eucalyptus. that be good for the larynx. then sit you in the kitchen and come when i ring. but first my hot water bottle. 
it be bring and scientifically tuck in. 
what news. say frau ebermann drowsily. she have not be out that day. 
another victory say anna. many more prisoner and gun. 
frau ebermann purr one might almost say grunt contentedly. 
that be good too she say. and anna after light the inhaler lamp go out. 
frau ebermann reflect that in an hour or so the aspirin would begin to work and all would be well. to morrow no the day after she would take up life with something to talk over with her friend at coffee. it be rare every one know it that she should be overcome by any ailment. yet in all her distress she have not allow the minute deviation from daily routine and ritual. she would tell her friend she run over their name one by one exactly what measure she have take against the lace cover on the radiator top and in regard to her two tortoise shell hair brush and the comb at right angle. how she have set everything in order everything in order. she rove further afield a she wriggle her toe luxuriously on the hot water bottle. if it please our dear god to take her to himself and she be not so young a she have be there be that plate of the four low one in the blue tooth glass for instance he should find all her belonging fit to meet his eye. sweep and garnish be the word that shape themselves in her intent brain. sweep and garnish for. 
no it be certainly not for the dear lord that she have sweep. she would have her room sweep out to morrow or the day after and garnish. her hand begin to swell again into huge pillow of nothingness. then they shrink and so do her head to minute dot. it occur to her that she be wait for some event some tremendously important event to come to pas. she lay with shut eye for a long time till her head and hand should return to their proper size. 
she open her eye with a jerk. 
how stupid of me she say aloud to set the room in order for a parcel of dirty little child. 
they be there five of them two little boy and three girl head by the anxious eye ten year old whom she have see before. they must have enter by the out door which anna have neglect to shut behind her when she return with the inhaler. she count them backward and forward a one count scale one two three four five. 
they take no notice of her but hang about first on one foot then on the other like stray chicken the small one hold by the large. they have the air of utterly weary passenger in a railway wait room and their clothe be disgracefully dirty. 
go away. cry frau ebermann at last after she have struggle it seem to her for year to shape the word. 
you call. say anna at the live room door. 
no say her mistress. do you shut the flat door when you come in. 
assuredly say anna. besides it be make to catch shut of itself. 
then go away say she very little above a whisper. if anna pretend not to see the child she would speak to anna late on. 
and now she say turn toward them a soon a the door close. the small of the crowd smile at her and shake his head before he bury it in his sister s skirt. 
why don t you go away. she whisper earnestly. 
again they take no notice but guide by the elder girl set themselves to climb boot and all on to the green plush sofa in front of the radiator. the little boy have to be push a they could not compass the stretch unaided. they settle themselves in a row with small gasp of relief and paw the plush approvingly. 
i ask you i ask you why do you not go away why do you not go away. frau ebermann find herself repeat the question twenty time. it seem to her that everything in the world hang on the answer. you know you should not come into house and room unless you be invite. not house and bedroom you know. 
no a solemn little six year old repeat not house nor bedroom nor din room nor church nor all those place. shouldn t come in. it s rude. 
yes he say so the young girl put in proudly. he say it. he tell them only pig would do that. the line nod and dimple one to another with little explosive giggle such a child use when they tell deed of great dare against their elder. 
if you know it be wrong that make it much bad say frau ebermann. 
oh yes. much bad they assent cheerfully till the small boy change his smile to a baby wail of weariness. 
when will they come for u. he ask and the girl at the head of the row haul him bodily into her square little capable lap. 
he s tire she explain. he be only four. he only have his first breech this spring. they come almost under his armpit and be hold up by broad linen brace which his sorrow divert for the moment he pat proudly. 
yes beautiful dear say both girl. 
go away. say frau ebermann. go home to your father and mother. 
their face grow grave at once. 
h sh. we can t_ whisper the eldest. there isn t anything leave. 
all go a boy echo and he puff through purse lip. like that_ uncle tell me. both cow too. 
and my own three duck the boy on the girl s lap say sleepily. 
so you see we come here. the elder girl lean forward a little caress the child she rock. 
i i don t understand say frau ebermann be you lose then. you must tell our police. 
oh no. we be only wait. 
but what be you wait for. 
we be wait for our people to come for u. they tell u to come here and wait for them. so we be wait till they come the eldest girl reply. 
yes. we be wait till our people come for u say all the others in chorus. 
but say frau ebermann very patiently but now tell me for i tell you that i be not in the least angry where do you come from. where do you come from. 
the five give the name of two village of which she have read in the paper. 
that be silly say frau ebermann. the people fire on u and they be punish. those place be wipe out stamp flat. 
yes yes wipe out stamp flat. that be why and i have lose the ribbon off my pigtail say the young girl. she look behind her over the sofa back. 
it be not here say the elder. it be lose before. don t you remember. 
now if you be lose you must go and tell our police. they will take care of you and give you food say frau ebermann. anna will show you the way there. 
no this be the six year old with the smile we must wait here till our people come for u. mustn t we sister. 
of course. we wait here till our people come for u. all the world know that say the eldest girl. 
yes. the boy in her lap have wake again. little child too a little a henri and he doesn t wear trouser yet. a little a all that. 
i don t understand say frau ebermann shiver. in spite of the heat of the room and the damp breath of the steam inhaler the aspirin be not do it duty. 
the girl raise her blue eye and look at the woman for an instant. 
you see she say emphasise her statement with her ringer they tell u to wait here till our people come for u. so we come. we wait till our people come for u. 
that be silly again say frau ebermann. it be no good for you to wait here. do you know what this place be. you have be to school. it be berlin the capital of germany. 
yes yes they all cry. berlin capital of germany. we know that. that be why we come. 
so you see it be no good she say triumphantly because your people can never come for you here. 
they tell u to come here and wait till our people come for u. they deliver this a if it be a lesson in school. then they sit still their hand orderly fold on their lap smile a sweetly a ever. 
go away. go away. frau ebermann shriek. 
you call. say anna enter. 
no. go away. go away. 
very good old cat say the maid under her breath. next time you may call and she return to her friend in the kitchen. 
i ask you ask you please to go away frau ebermann plead. go to my anna through that door and she will give you cake and sweetie. it be not kind of you to come into my room and behave so badly. 
where else shall we go now. the elder girl demand turn to her little company. they fell into discussion. one prefer the broad street with tree another the railway station. but when she suggest an emperor s palace they agree with her. 
we will go then she say and add half apologetically to frau ebermann you see they be so little they like to meet all the others. 
what others. say frau ebermann. 
the others hundred and hundred and thousand and thousand of the others. 
that be a lie. there cannot be a hundred even much le a thousand cry frau ebermann. 
so. say the girl politely. 
yes. i tell you. and i have very good information. i know how it happen. you should have be more careful. you should not have run out to see the horse and gun pass. that be how it be do when our troop pas through. my son ha write me so. 
they have clamber down from the sofa and gather round the bed with eager interest eye. 
horse and gun go by how fine. some one whisper. 
yes yes. believe me that be how the accident to the child happen. you must know yourself that it be true. one run out to look. 
but i never saw any at all a boy cry sorrowfully. only one noise i hear. that be when aunt emmeline s house fell down. 
but listen to me. i be tell you. one run out to look because one be little and cannot see well. so one peep between the man s leg and then you know how close those big horse and gun turn the corner then one s foot slip and one get run over. that s how it happen. several time it have happen but not many time. certainly not a hundred perhaps not twenty. so you see you must be all. tell me now that you be all that there be and anna shall give you the cake. 
thousand a boy repeat monotonously. then we all come here to wait till our people come for u. 
but now we will go away from here. the poor lady be tire say the elder girl pluck his sleeve. 
oh you hurt you hurt. he cry and burst into tear. 
what be that for. say frau ebermann. to cry in a room where a poor lady be sick be very inconsiderate. 
oh but look lady. say the elder girl. 
frau ebermann look and saw. 
au revoir_ lady. they make their little smile bow and curtsey undisturbed by her loud cry. au revoir lady. we will wait till our people come for u. 
when anna at last run in she find her mistress on her knee busily clean the floor with the lace cover from the radiator because she explain it be all spot with the blood of five child she be perfectly certain there could not be more than five in the whole world who have go away for the moment but be now wait round the corner and anna be to find them and give them cake to stop the bleed while her mistress sweep and garnish that our dear lord when he come might find everything a it should be. 
mary postgate. 

of miss mary postgate lady mccausland write that she be thoroughly conscientious tidy companionable and ladylike. i be very sorry to part with her and shall always be interest in her welfare. 
miss fowler engage her on this recommendation and to her surprise for she have have experience of companion find that it be true. miss fowler be near sixty than fifty at the time but though she need care she do not exhaust her attendant s vitality. on the contrary she give out stimulatingly and with reminiscence. her father have be a minor court official in the day when the great exhibition of have just set it seal on civilisation make perfect. some of miss fowler s tale none the le be not always for the young. mary be not young and though her speech be a colourless a her eye or her hair she be never shock. she listen unflinchingly to every one. say at the end how interest. or how shock. a the case might be and never again refer to it for she pride herself on a train mind which do not dwell on these thing. she be too a treasure at domestic account for which the village tradesman with their weekly book love her not. otherwise she have no enemy. provoke no jealousy even among the plain. neither gossip nor slander have ever be trace to her. she supply the odd place at the rector s or the doctor s table at half an hour s notice. she be a sort of public aunt to very many small child of the village street whose parent while accept everything would have be swift to resent what they call patronage. she serve on the village nurse committee a miss fowler s nominee when miss fowler be cripple by rheumatoid arthritis and come out of six month fortnightly meeting equally respect by all the clique. 
and when fate throw miss fowler s nephew an unlovely orphan of eleven on miss fowler s hand mary postgate stand to her share of the business of education a practise in private and public school. she check print clothe list and unitemised bill of extra. write to head and house master matron nurse and doctor and grieve or rejoice over half term report. young wyndham fowler repay her in his holiday by call her gatepost postey or packthread by thump her between her narrow shoulder or by chase her bleat round the garden her large mouth open her large nose high in air at a stiff neck shamble very like a camel s. late on he fill the house with clamour argument and harangue a to his personal need like and dislike and the limitation of you woman reduce mary to tear of physical fatigue or when he choose to be humorous of helpless laughter. at crisis which multiply a he grow old she be his ambassadress and his interpretress to miss fowler who have no large sympathy with the young. a vote in his interest at the council on his future. his sew woman strictly accountable for mislay boot and garment. always his butt and his slave. 
and when he decide to become a solicitor and have enter an office in london. when his greet have change from hullo postey you old beast to mornin packthread there come a war which unlike all war that mary could remember do not stay decently outside england and in the newspaper but intrude on the life of people whom she know. a she say to miss fowler it be most vexatious. it take the rector s son who be go into business with his elder brother. it take the colonel s nephew on the eve of fruit farm in canada. it take mr. grant s son who his mother say be devote to the ministry. and very early indeed it take wynn fowler who announce on a postcard that he have join the fly corp and want a cardigan waistcoat. 
he must go and he must have the waistcoat say miss fowler. so mary get the proper size needle and wool while miss fowler tell the men of her establishment two gardener and an odd man age sixty that those who could join the army have good do so. the gardener leave. cheape the odd man stay on and be promote to the gardener s cottage. the cook scorn to be limit in luxury also leave after a spirit scene with miss fowler and take the housemaid with her. miss fowler gazette nellie cheape s seventeen year old daughter to the vacant post. mr. cheape to the rank of cook with occasional clean bout. and the reduce establishment move forward smoothly. 
wynn demand an increase in his allowance. miss fowler who always look fact in the face say he must have it. the chance be he win t live long to draw it and if three hundred make him happy. 
wynn be grateful and come over in his tight button uniform to say so. his train centre be not thirty mile away and his talk be so technical that it have to be explain by chart of the various type of machine. he give mary such a chart. 
and you d good study it postey he say. you ll be see a lot of em soon. so mary study the chart but when wynn next arrive to swell and exalt himself before his womenfolk she fail badly in cross examination and he rat her a in the old day. 
you look more or le like a human be he say in his new service voice. you must have have a brain at some time in your past. what have you do with it. where d you keep it. a sheep would know more than you do postey. you re lamentable. you be le use than an empty tin can you dowey old cassowary. 
i suppose that s how your superior officer talk to you. say miss fowler from her chair. 
but postey doesn t mind wynn reply. do you packthread. 
why. be wynn say anything. i shall get this right next time you come she mutter and knit her pale brow again over the diagram of taubes farmans and zeppelin. 
in a few week the mere land and sea battle which she read to miss fowler after breakfast pass her like idle breath. her heart and her interest be high in the air with wynn who have finish roll. whatever that might be. and have go on from a taxi to a machine more or le his own. one morning it circle over their very chimney alight on vegg s heath almost outside the garden gate and wynn come in blue with cold shout for food. he and she draw miss fowler s bath chair a they have often do along the heath foot path to look at the bi plane. mary observe that it smelt very badly. 
postey i believe you think with your nose say wynn. i know you don t with your mind. now what type s that. 
i ll go and get the chart say mary. 
you re hopeless. you haven t the mental capacity of a white mouse he cry and explain the dial and the socket for bomb drop till it be time to mount and ride the wet cloud once more. 
ah. say mary a the stink thing flare upward. wait till our fly corp get to work. wynn say it s much safe than in the trench. 
i wonder say miss fowler. tell cheape to come and tow me home again. 
it s all downhill. i can do it say mary if you put the brake on. she lay her lean self against the push bar and home they trundle. 
now be careful you aren t heat and catch a chill say overdress miss fowler. 
nothing make me perspire say mary. a she bump the chair under the porch she straighten her long back. the exertion have give her a colour and the wind have loosen a wisp of hair across her forehead. miss fowler glance at her. 
what do you ever think of mary. she demand suddenly. 
oh wynn say he want another three pair of stocking a thick a we can make them. 
yes. but i mean the thing that woman think about. here you be more than forty. 
forty four say truthful mary. 
well. 
well. mary offer miss fowler her shoulder a usual. 
and you ve be with me ten year now. 
let s see say mary. wynn be eleven when he come. he s twenty now and i come two year before that. it must be eleven. 
eleven. and you ve never tell me anything that matter in all that while. look back it seem to me that i_ ve do all the talk. 
i m afraid i m not much of a conversationalist. a wynn say i haven t the mind. let me take your hat. 
miss fowler move stiffly from the hip stamp her rubber tip stick on the tile hall floor. mary aren t you anything except a companion. would you ever have be anything except a companion. 
mary hang up the garden hat on it proper peg. no she say after consideration. i don t imagine i ever should. but i ve no imagination i m afraid. 
she fetch miss fowler her eleven o clock glass of contrexéville. 
that be the wet december when it rain six inch to the month and the woman go abroad a little a might be. wynn s fly chariot visit them several time and for two morning. he have warn her by postcard. mary hear the thresh of his propeller at dawn. the second time she run to the window and star at the whiten sky. a little blur pass overhead. she lift her lean arm towards it. 
that even at six o clock there come an announcement in an official envelope that second lieutenant w. fowler have be kill during a trial flight. death be instantaneous. she read it and carry it to miss fowler. 
i never expect anything else say miss fowler. but i m sorry it happen before he have do anything. 
the room be whirl round mary postgate but she find herself quite steady in the midst of it. 
yes she say. it s a great pity he didn t die in action after he have kill somebody. 
he be kill instantly. that s one comfort miss fowler go on. 
but wynn say the shock of a fall kill a man at once whatever happen to the tank quote mary. 
the room be come to rest now. she hear miss fowler say impatiently but why can t we cry mary. and herself reply there s nothing to cry for. he ha do his duty a much a mr. grant s son do. 
and when he die she come and cry all the morning say miss fowler. this only make me feel tire terribly tire. will you help me to bed please mary. and i think i d like the hot water bottle. 
so mary help her and sit beside talk of wynn in his riotous youth. 
i believe say miss fowler suddenly that old people and young people slip from under a stroke like this. the middle age feel it most. 
i expect that s true say mary rise. i m go to put away the thing in his room now. shall we wear mourn. 
certainly not say miss fowler. except of course at the funeral. i can t go. you will. i want you to arrange about his be bury here. what a bless it didn t happen at salisbury. 
every one from the authority of the fly corp to the rector be most kind and sympathetic. mary find herself for the moment in a world where body be in the habit of be despatch by all sort of conveyance to all sort of place. and at the funeral two young men in button up uniform stand beside the grave and speak to her afterwards. 
you re miss postgate aren t you. say one. fowler tell me about you. he be a good chap a first class fellow a great loss. 
great loss. growl his companion. we re all awfully sorry. 
how high do he fall from. mary whisper. 
pretty nearly four thousand foot i should think didn t he. you be up that day monkey. 
all of that the other child reply. my bar make three thousand and i wasn t a high a him by a lot. 
then that s all right say mary. thank you very much. 
they move away a mr. grant fling herself weep on mary s flat chest under the lych gate and cry i know how it feel. i know how it feel. 
but both his parent be dead mary return a she fend her off. perhaps they ve all meet by now she add vaguely a she escape towards the coach. 
i ve think of that too wail mr. grant. but then he ll be practically a strange to them. quite embarrass. 
mary faithfully report every detail of the ceremony to miss fowler who when she describe mr. grant s outburst laugh aloud. 
oh how wynn would have enjoy it. he be always utterly unreliable at funeral. d you remember and they talk of him again each piece out the other s gap. and now say miss fowler we ll pull up the blind and we ll have a general tidy. that always doe u good. have you see to wynn s thing. 
everything since he first come say mary. he be never destructive even with his toy. 
they face that neat room. 
it can t be natural not to cry mary say at last. i m so afraid you ll have a reaction. 
a i tell you we old people slip from under the stroke. it s you i m afraid for. have you cry yet. 
i can t. it only make me angry with the german. 
that s sheer waste of vitality say miss fowler. we must live till the war s finish. she open a full wardrobe. now i ve be think thing over. this be my plan. all his civilian clothe can be give away belgian refugee and so on. 
mary nod. boot collar and glove. 
yes. we don t need to keep anything except his cap and belt. 
they come back yesterday with his fly corp clothe mary point to a roll on the little iron bed. 
ah but keep his service thing. some one may be glad of them late. do you remember his size. 
five foot eight and a half. thirty six inch round the chest. but he tell me he s just put on an inch and a half. i ll mark it on a label and tie it on his sleep bag. 
so that dispose of that_ say miss fowler tap the palm of one hand with the ring third finger of the other. what waste it all be. we ll get his old school trunk to morrow and pack his civilian clothe. 
and the rest. say mary. his book and picture and the game and the toy and and the rest. 
my plan be to burn every single thing say miss fowler. then we shall know where they be and no one can handle them afterwards. what do you think. 
i think that would be much the best say mary. but there s such a lot of them. 
we ll burn them in the destructor say miss fowler. 
this be an open air furnace for the consumption of refuse. a little circular four foot tower of pierce brick over an iron grate. miss fowler have notice the design in a garden journal year ago and have have it build at the bottom of the garden. it suit her tidy soul for it save unsightly rubbish heap and the ash lighten the stiff clay soil. 
mary consider for a moment saw her way clear and nod again. they spend the even put away well remember civilian suit underclothes that mary have mark and the regiment of very gaudy sock and tie. a second trunk be need and after that a little pack case and it be late next day when cheape and the local carrier lift them to the cart. the rector luckily know of a friend s son about five foot eight and a half inch high to whom a complete fly corp outfit would be most acceptable and send his gardener s son down with a barrow to take delivery of it. the cap be hang up in miss fowler s bedroom the belt in miss postgate s. for a miss fowler say they have no desire to make tea party talk of them. 
that dispose of that_ say miss fowler. i ll leave the rest to you mary. i can t run up and down the garden. you d good take the big clothe basket and get nellie to help you. 
i shall take the wheel barrow and do it myself say mary and for once in her life close her mouth. 
miss fowler in moment of irritation have call mary deadly methodical. she put on her old waterproof and garden hat and her ever slip golosh for the weather be on the edge of more rain. she gather fire lighter from the kitchen a half scuttle of coal and a faggot of brushwood. these she wheel in the barrow down the mossed path to the dank little laurel shrubbery where the destructor stand under the drip of three oak. she climb the wire fence into the rector s glebe just behind and from his tenant s rick pull two large armful of good hay which she spread neatly on the fire bar. next journey by journey pass miss fowler s white face at the morning room window each time she bring down in the towel cover clothe basket on the wheel barrow thumb and use hentys marryats lever stevenson baroness orczy garvices schoolbook and atlas unrelated pile of the motor cyclist_ the light car_ and catalogue of olympia exhibition. the remnant of a fleet of sail ship from ninepenny cutter to a three guinea yacht. a prep. school dress gown. bat from three and sixpence to twenty four shilling. cricket and tennis ball. disintegrate steam and clockwork locomotive with their twist rail. a grey and red tin model of a submarine. a dumb gramophone and crack record. golf club that have to be break across the knee like his walk stick and an assegai. photograph of private and public school cricket and football eleven and his o. t. c. on the line of march. kodaks and film roll. some pewter and one real silver cup for box competition and junior hurdle. sheaf of school photograph. miss fowler s photograph. her own which he have bear off in fun and. good care she take not to ask. have never return. a playbox with a secret drawer. a load of flannel belt and jersey and a pair of spike shoe unearth in the attic. a packet of all the letter that miss fowler and she have ever write to him keep for some absurd reason through all these year. a five day attempt at a diary. frame picture of race motor in full brooklands career and load upon load of undistinguishable wreckage of tool box rabbit hutch electric battery tin soldier fret saw outfit and jig saw puzzle. 
miss fowler at the window watch her come and go and say to herself mary s an old woman. i never realise it before. 
after lunch she recommend her to rest. 
i m not in the least tire say mary. i ve get it all arrange. i m go to the village at two o clock for some paraffin. nellie hasn t enough and the walk will do me good. 
she make one last quest round the house before she start and find that she have overlook nothing. it begin to mist a soon a she have skirt vegg s heath where wynn use to descend it seem to her that she could almost hear the beat of his propeller overhead but there be nothing to see. she hoist her umbrella and lunge into the blind wet till she have reach the shelter of the empty village. a she come out of mr. kidd s shop with a bottle full of paraffin in her string shop bag she meet nurse eden the village nurse and fell into talk with her a usual about the village child. they be just part opposite the royal oak when a gun they fancy be fire immediately behind the house. it be follow by a child s shriek die into a wail. 
accident. say nurse eden promptly and dash through the empty bar follow by mary. they find mr. gerritt the publican s wife who could only gasp and point to the yard where a little cart lodge be slide sideways amid a clatter of tile. nurse eden snatch up a sheet dry before the fire run out lift something from the grind and fling the sheet round it. the sheet turn scarlet and half her uniform too a she bore the load into the kitchen. it be little edna gerritt age nine whom mary have know since her perambulator day. 
be i hurt bad. edna ask and die between nurse eden s drip hand. the sheet fell aside and for an instant before she could shut her eye mary saw the rip and shred body. 
it s a wonder she speak at all say nurse eden. what in god s name be it. 
a bomb say mary. 
one o the zeppelin. 
no. an aeroplane. i think i hear it on the heath but i fancy it be one of ours. it must have shut off it engine a it come down. that s why we didn t notice it. 
the filthy pig. say nurse eden all white and shake. see the pickle i m in. go and tell dr. hennis miss postgate. nurse look at the mother who have drop face down on the floor. she s only in a fit. turn her over. 
mary heave mr. gerritt right side up and hurry off for the doctor. when she tell her tale he ask her to sit down in the surgery till he get her something. 
but i don t need it i assure you say she. i don t think it would be wise to tell miss fowler about it do you. her heart be so irritable in this weather. 
dr. hennis look at her admiringly a he pack up his bag. 
no. don t tell anybody till we re sure he say and hasten to the royal oak while mary go on with the paraffin. the village behind her be a quiet a usual for the news have not yet spread. she frown a little to herself her large nostril expand uglily and from time to time she mutter a phrase which wynn who never restrain himself before his womenfolk have apply to the enemy. bloody pagan. they be bloody pagan. but she continue fall back on the teach that have make her what she be one mustn t let one s mind dwell on these thing. 
before she reach the house dr. hennis who be also a special constable overtake her in his car. 
oh miss postgate he say i want to tell you that that accident at the royal oak be due to gerritt s stable tumble down. it s be dangerous for a long time. it ought to have be condemn. 
i think i hear an explosion too say mary. 
you might have be mislead by the beam snap. i ve be look at em. they be dry rot through and through. of course a they break they would make a noise just like a gun. 
yes. say mary politely. 
poor little edna be play underneath it he go on still hold her with his eye and that and the tile cut her to piece you see. 
i saw it say mary shake her head. i hear it too. 
well we cannot be sure. dr. hennis change his tone completely. i know both you and nurse eden. i ve be speak to her. be perfectly trustworthy and i can rely on you not to say anything yet at least. it be no good to stir up people unless. 
oh i never do anyhow say mary and dr. hennis go on to the county town. 
after all she tell herself it might just possibly have be the collapse of the old stable that have do all those thing to poor little edna. she be sorry she have even hint at other thing but nurse eden be discretion itself. by the time she reach home the affair seem increasingly remote by it very monstrosity. a she come in miss fowler tell her that a couple of aeroplane have pass half an hour ago. 
i think i hear them she reply i m go down to the garden now. i ve get the paraffin. 
yes but what have you get on your boot. they re soak wet. change them at once. 
not only do mary obey but she wrap the boot in a newspaper and put them into the string bag with the bottle. so arm with the long kitchen poker she leave. 
it s rain again be miss fowler s last word but i know you win t be happy till that s dispose of. 
it win t take long. i ve get everything down there and i ve put the lid on the destructor to keep the wet out. 
the shrubbery be fill with twilight by the time she have complete her arrangement and sprinkle the sacrificial oil. a she light the match that would burn her heart to ash she hear a groan or a grunt behind the dense portugal laurel. 
cheape. she call impatiently but cheape with his ancient lumbago in his comfortable cottage would be the last man to profane the sanctuary. sheep she conclude and throw in the fusee. the pyre go up in a roar and the immediate flame hasten night around her. 
how wynn would have love this. she think step back from the blaze. 
by it light she saw half hide behind a laurel not five pace away a bareheaded man sit very stiffly at the foot of one of the oak. a break branch lay across his lap one boot leg protrude from beneath it. his head move ceaselessly from side to side but his body be a still a the tree s trunk. he be dress she move sideways to look more closely in a uniform something like wynn s with a flap button across the chest. for an instant she have some idea that it might be one of the young fly men she have meet at the funeral. but their head be dark and glossy. this man s be a pale a a baby s and so closely crop that she could see the disgust pinky skin beneath. his lip move. 
what do you say. mary move towards him and stoop. 
laty. laty. laty. he mutter while his hand pick at the dead wet leaf. there be no doubt a to his nationality. it make her so angry that she stride back to the destructor though it be still too hot to use the poker there. wynn s book seem to be catch well. she look up at the oak behind the man. several of the light upper and two or three rotten low branch have break and scatter their rubbish on the shrubbery path. on the low fork a helmet with dependent string show like a bird s nest in the light of a long tongue flame. evidently this person have fall through the tree. wynn have tell her that it be quite possible for people to fall out of aeroplane. wynn tell her too that tree be useful thing to break an aviator s fall but in this case the aviator must have be break or he would have move from his queer position. he seem helpless except for his horrible roll head. on the other hand she could see a pistol case at his belt and mary loathe pistol. month ago after read certain belgian report together she and miss fowler have have dealing with one a huge revolver with flat nose bullet which latter wynn say be forbid by the rule of war to be use against civilise enemy. they re good enough for u miss fowler have reply. show mary how it work. and wynn laugh at the mere possibility of any such need have lead the craven wink mary into the rector s disused quarry and have show her how to fire the terrible machine. it lay now in the top leave hand drawer of her toilet table a memento not include in the burn. wynn would be please to see how she be not afraid. 
she slip up to the house to get it. when she come through the rain the eye in the head be alive with expectation. the mouth even try to smile. but at sight of the revolver it corner go down just like edna gerritt s. a tear trickle from one eye and the head roll from shoulder to shoulder a though try to point out something. 
cassée. tout cassée it whimper. 
what do you say. say mary disgustedly keep well to one side though only the head move. 
cassée it repeat. che me rend. le médicin. toctor. 
nein. say she bring all her small german to bear with the big pistol. ich haben d todt kind gesehn. 
the head be still. mary s hand drop. she have be careful to keep her finger off the trigger for fear of accident. after a few moment wait she return to the destructor where the flame be fall and churn up wynn s char book with the poker. again the head groan for the doctor. 
stop that. say mary and stamp her foot. stop that you bloody pagan. 
the word come quite smoothly and naturally. they be wynn s own word and wynn be a gentleman who for no consideration on earth would have tear little edna into those vividly colour strip and string. but this thing hunch under the oak tree have do that thing. it be no question of read horror out of newspaper to miss fowler. mary have see it with her own eye on the royal oak kitchen table. she must not allow her mind to dwell upon it. now wynn be dead and everything connect with him be lump and rustle and tinkle under her busy poker into red black dust and grey leaf of ash. the thing beneath the oak would die too. mary have see death more than once. she come of a family that have a knack of die under a she tell miss fowler most distress circumstance. she would stay where she be till she be entirely satisfy that it be dead dead a dear papa in the late eighty. aunt mary in eighty nine. mamma in ninety one. cousin dick in ninety five. lady mccausland s housemaid in ninety nine. lady mccausland s sister in nineteen hundred and one. wynn bury five day ago. and edna gerritt still wait for decent earth to hide her. a she think her underlip catch up by one fade canine brow knit and nostril wide she wield the poker with lunge that jar the grate at the bottom and careful scrape round the brick work above. she look at her wrist watch. it be get on to half past four and the rain be come down in earnest. tea would be at five. if it do not die before that time she would be soak and would have to change. meantime and this occupy her wynn s thing be burn well in spite of the hiss wet though now and again a book back with a quite distinguishable title would be heave up out of the mass. the exercise of stoke have give her a glow which seem to reach to the marrow of her bone. she hum mary never have a voice to herself. she have never believe in all those advance view though miss fowler herself lean a little that way of woman s work in the world. but now she saw there be much to be say for them. this for instance be her work work which no man least of all dr. hennis would ever have do. a man at such a crisis would be what wynn call a sportsman. would leave everything to fetch help and would certainly bring it into the house. now a woman s business be to make a happy home for for a husband and child. fail these it be not a thing one should allow one s mind to dwell upon but. 
stop it. mary cry once more across the shadow. nein i tell you. ich haben d todt kind gesehn. 
but it be a fact. a woman who have miss these thing could still be useful more useful than a man in certain respect. she thump like a pavior through the settle ash at the secret thrill of it. the rain be damp the fire but she could feel it be too dark to see that her work be do. there be a dull red glow at the bottom of the destructor not enough to char the wooden lid if she slip it half over against the drive wet. this arrange she lean on the poker and wait while an increase rapture lay hold on her. she cease to think. she give herself up to feel. her long pleasure be break by a sound that she have wait for in agony several time in her life. she lean forward and listen smile. there could be no mistake. she close her eye and drink it in. once it cease abruptly. 
go on she murmur half aloud. that isn t the end. 
then the end come very distinctly in a lull between two rain gust. mary postgate draw her breath short between her teeth and shiver from head to foot. that s all right say she contentedly and go up to the house where she scandalise the whole routine by take a luxurious hot bath before tea and come down look a miss fowler say when she saw her lie all relax on the other sofa quite handsome. 
the beginning. 
it be not part of their blood it come to them very late with long arrears to make good when the english begin to hate. 
they be not easily move they be icy will to wait till every count should be prove ere the english begin to hate. 
their voice be even and low their eye be level and straight. there be neither sign nor show when the english begin to hate. 
it be not preach to the crowd it be not teach by the state. no man speak it aloud when the english begin to hate. 
it be not suddenly breed it will not swiftly abate through the chill year ahead when time shall count from the date that the english begin to hate. 
