reward and fairy. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
a charm introduction cold iron cold iron gloriana the two cousin the look glass the wrong thing a truthful song king henry vii and the shipwright marklake witch the way through the wood brookland road the knife and the naked chalk the run of the down song of the men s side brother square toe philadelphia if r a priest in spite of himself a st helena lullaby poor honest men the conversion of st wilfrid eddi s service song of the red war boat a doctor of medicine an astrologer s song our father of old simple simon the thousandth man frankie s trade the tree of justice the ballad of minepit shaw a carol. 
a charm. 
take of english earth a much a either hand may rightly clutch. in the take of it breathe prayer for all who lie beneath not the great nor well bespeak but the mere uncounted folk of whose life and death be none report or lamentation. lay that earth upon thy heart and thy sickness shall depart. 
it shall sweeten and make whole fevered breath and fester soul. it shall mightily restrain over busy hand and brain. it shall ease thy mortal strife gainst the immortal woe of life till thyself restore shall prove by what grace the heaven do move. 
take of english flower these spring s full face primrose summer s wild wide hearted rise autumn s wall flower of the close and thy darkness to illume winter s bee throng ivy bloom. seek and serve them where they bide from candlemas to christmas tide for these simple use aright shall restore a fail sight. 
these shall cleanse and purify web and inward turn eye. these shall show thee treasure hide thy familiar field amid at thy threshold on thy hearth or about thy daily path. and reveal. which be thy need. every man a king indeed. 
introduction. 
once upon a time dan and una brother and sister live in the english country have the good fortune to meet with puck alias robin goodfellow alias nick o lincoln alias lob lie by the fire the last survivor in england of those whom mortal call fairy. their proper name of course be the people of the hill. this puck by mean of the magic of oak ash and thorn give the child power. 
to see what they should see and hear what they should hear though it should have happen three thousand year. 
the result be that from time to time and in different place on the farm and in the field and in the country about they saw and talk to some rather interest people. one of these for instance be a knight of the norman conquest another a young centurion of a roman legion station in england another a builder and decorator of king henry vii s time. and so on and so forth. a i have try to explain in a book call puck of pook s hill. 
a year or so late the child meet puck once more and though they be then old and wise and wear boot regularly instead of go barefooted when they get the chance puck be a kind to them a ever and introduce them to more people of the old day. 
he be careful of course to take away their memory of their walk and conversation afterwards but otherwise he do not interfere. and dan and una would find the strange sort of person in their garden or wood. 
in the story that follow i be try to tell something about those people. 
cold iron. 
when dan and una have arrange to go out before breakfast they do not remember that it be midsummer morning. they only want to see the otter which old hobden say have be fish their brook for week. and early morning be the time to surprise him. a they tiptoe out of the house into the wonderful stillness the church clock strike five. dan take a few step across the dew blob lawn and look at his black footprint. 
i think we ought to be kind to our poor boot he say. they ll get horrid wet. 
it be their first summer in boot and they hat them so they take them off and sling them round their neck and paddle joyfully over the drip turf where the shadow lay the wrong way like even in the east. the sun be well up and warm but by the brook the last of the night mist still fume off the water. they pick up the chain of otter s footprint on the mud and follow it from the bank between the weed and the drench mow while the bird shout with surprise. then the track leave the brook and become a smear a though a log have be drag along. 
they trace it into three cow meadow over the mill sluice to the forge round hobden s garden and then up the slope till it run out on the short turf and fern of pook s hill and they hear the cock pheasant crow in the wood behind them. 
no use. say dan quest like a puzzle hound. the dew s dry off and old hobden say otter ll travel for mile. 
i m sure we ve travel mile. una fan herself with her hat. how still it be. it s go to be a regular roaster. she look down the valley where no chimney yet smoke. 
hobden s up. dan point to the open door of the forge cottage. what d you suppose he ha for breakfast. one of them. he say they eat good all time of the year una jerk her head at some stately pheasant go down to the brook for a drink. 
a few step farther on a fox break almost under their bare foot yap and trot off. 
ah mu reynolds mu reynolds dan be quote from old hobden if i know all you know i d know something. [see the wing hat in puck of pook s hill. ]. 
i say una lower her voice you know that funny feel of thing have happen before. i felt it when you say mu reynolds. 
so do i dan begin. what be it. 
they face each other stammer with excitement. 
wait a shake. i ll remember in a minute. wasn t it something about a fox last year. oh i nearly have it then. dan cry. 
be quiet. say una prance excitedly. there be something happen before we meet the fox last year. hill. break hill the play at the theatre see what you see. 
i remember now dan shout. it s a plain a the nose on your face pook s hill puck s hill puck. 
i remember too say una. and it s midsummer day again. the young fern on a knoll rustle and puck walk out chew a green top rush. 
good midsummer morning to you. here s a happy meet say he. they shake hand all round and ask question. 
you ve winter well he say after a while and look them up and down. nothing much wrong with you seemingly. 
they ve put u into boot say una. look at my foot they re all pale white and my toe be squidged together awfully. 
yes boot make a difference. puck wriggle his brown square hairy foot and crop a dandelion flower between the big toe and the next. 
i could do that last year dan say dismally a he try and fail. and boot simply ruin one s climb. 
there must be some advantage to them i suppose say puck or folk wouldn t wear them. shall we come this way. they saunter along side by side till they reach the gate at the far end of the hillside. here they halt just like cattle and let the sun warm their back while they listen to the fly in the wood. 
little linden be awake say una a she hang with her chin on the top rail. see the chimney smoke. 
today s thursday isn t it. puck turn to look at the old pink farmhouse across the little valley. mr vincey s bake day. bread should rise well this weather. he yawn and that set them both yawn. 
the bracken about rustle and tick and shake in every direction. they felt that little crowd be steal past. 
doesn t that sound like er the people of the hill. say una. 
it s the bird and wild thing draw up to the wood before people get about say puck a though he be ridley the keeper. 
oh we know that. i only say it sound like. 
a i remember em the people of the hill use to make more noise. they d settle down for the day rather like small bird settle down for the night. but that be in the day when they carry the high hand. oh me. the deed that i ve have act and part in you d scarcely believe. 
i like that. say dan. after all you tell u last year too. 
only the minute you go away you make u forget everything say una. 
puck laugh and shake his head. i shall this year too. i ve give you seizin of old england and i ve take away your doubt and fear but your memory and remembrance between while i ll keep where old billy trott keep his night line and that s where he could draw em up and hide em at need. doe that suit. he twinkle mischievously. 
it s get to suit say una and laugh. we can t magic back at you. she fold her arm and lean against the gate. suppose now you want to magic me into something an otter. could you. 
not with those boot round your neck. i ll take them off. she throw them on the turf. dan s follow immediately. now. she say. 
le than ever now you ve trust me. where there s true faith there s no call for magic. puck s slow smile broaden all over his face. 
but what have boot to do with it. say una perch on the gate. 
there s cold iron in them say puck and settle beside her. nail in the sol i mean. it make a difference. 
how. can t you feel it doe. you wouldn t like to go back to bare foot again same a last year would you. not really. 
no o. i suppose i shouldn t not for always. i m grow up you know say una. 
but you tell u last year in the long slip at the theatre that you didn t mind cold iron say dan. 
i don t. but folk in housen a the people of the hill call them must be rule by cold iron. folk in housen be bear on the near side of cold iron there s iron in every man s house isn t there. they handle cold iron every day of their life and their fortune s make or spoil by cold iron in some shape or other. that s how it go with flesh and blood and one can t prevent it. 
i don t quite see. how do you mean. say dan. 
it would take me some time to tell you. 
oh it s ever so long to breakfast say dan. we look in the larder before we come out. he unpocketed one big hunk of bread and una another which they share with puck. 
that s little linden bake he say a his white teeth sink in it. i know mr vincey s hand. he eat with a slow sideways thrust and grind just like old hobden and like hobden hardly drop a crumb. the sun flash on little linden window and the cloudless sky grow still and hot in the valley. 
ah cold iron he say at last to the impatient child. folk in housen a the people of the hill say grow careless about cold iron. they ll nail the horseshoe over the front door and forget to put it over the back. then some time or other the people of the hill slip in find the cradle babe in the corner and. 
oh i know. steal it and leave a changeling una cry. 
no say puck firmly. all that talk of changeling be people s excuse for their own neglect. never believe em. i d whip em at the cart tail through three parish if i have my way. 
but they don t do it now say una. 
whip or neglect child. umm. some folk and some field never alter. but the people of the hill didn t work any changeling trick. they d tiptoe in and whisper and weave round the cradle babe in the chimney corner a fag end of a charm here or half a spell there like kettle sing. but when the babe s mind come to bud out afterwards it would act differently from other people in it station. that s no advantage to man or maid. so i wouldn t allow it with my folk baby here. i tell sir huon so once. 
who be sir huon. dan ask and puck turn on him in quiet astonishment. 
sir huon of bordeaux he succeed king oberon. he have be a bold knight once but he be lose on the road to babylon a long while back. have you ever hear how many mile to babylon. 
of course say dan flush. 
well sir huon be young when that song be new. but about trick on mortal baby. i say to sir huon in the fern here on just such a morning a this. if you crave to act and influence on folk in housen which i know be your desire why don t you take some human cradle babe by fair deal and bring him up among yourselves on the far side of cold iron a oberon do in time past. then you could make him a splendid fortune and send him out into the world. 
time past be past time say sir huon. i doubt if we could do it. for one thing the babe would have to be take without wrong man woman or child. for another he d have to be bear on the far side of cold iron in some house where no cold iron ever stand. and for yet the third he d have to be keep from cold iron all his day till we let him find his fortune. no it s not easy he say and he ride off think. you see sir huon have be a man once. i happen to attend lewes market next woden s day even and watch the slave be sell there same a pig be sell at robertsbridge market nowadays. only the pig have ring on their nose and the slave have ring round their neck. 
what sort of ring. say dan. 
a ring of cold iron four finger wide and a thumb thick just like a quoit but with a snap to it for to snap round the slave s neck. they use to do a big trade in slave ring at the forge here and ship them to all part of old england pack in oak sawdust. but a i be say there be a farmer out of the weald who have buy a woman with a babe in her arm and he didn t want any encumbrance to her drive his beast home for him. 
beast himself. say una and kick her bare heel on the gate. 
so he blame the auctioneer. it s none o my baby the wench put in. i take it off a woman in our gang who die on terrible down yesterday. i ll take it off to the church then say the farmer. mother church ll make a monk of it and we ll step along home. 
it be dusk then. he slip down to st pancras church and lay the babe at the cold chapel door. i breathe on the back of his stoop neck and i ve hear he never could be warm at any fire afterwards. i should have be surprise if he could. then i whip up the babe and come fly home here like a bat to his belfry. 
on the dewy break of morning of thor s own day just such a day a this i lay the babe outside the hill here and the people flock up and wonder at the sight. 
you ve bring him then. sir huon say star like any mortal man. 
yes and he s bring his mouth with him too i say. the babe be cry loud for his breakfast. 
what be he. say sir huon when the womenfolk have draw him under to fee him. 
full moon and morning star may know i say. i don t. by what i could make out of him in the moonlight he s without brand or blemish. i ll answer for it that he s bear on the far side of cold iron for he be bear under a shaw on terrible down and i ve wrong neither man woman nor child in take him for he be the son of a dead slave woman. 
all to the good robin sir huon say. he ll be the le anxious to leave u. oh we ll give him a splendid fortune and we shall act and influence on folk in housen a we have always crave. his lady come up then and draw him under to watch the babe s wonderful do. who be his lady. say dan. the lady esclairmonde. she have be a woman once till she follow sir huon across the fern a we say. baby be no special treat to me i ve watch too many of them so i stay on the hill. presently i hear hammer down at the forge there. puck point towards hobden s cottage. it be too early for any workman but it pass through my mind that the break day be thor s own day. a slow north east wind blow up and set the oak saw and fret in a way i remember. so i slip over to see what i could see. 
and what do you see. a smith forge something or other out of cold iron. when it be finish he weigh it in his hand. his back be towards me. and toss it from him a longish quoit throw down the valley. i saw cold iron flash in the sun but i couldn t quite make out where it fell. that didn t trouble me. i know it would be find sooner or late by someone. 
how do you know. dan go on. 
because i know the smith that make it say puck quietly. 
wayland smith. una suggest. [see weland s sword in puck of pook s hill. ]. 
no. i should have pass the time o day with wayland smith of course. this other be different. so puck make a queer crescent in the air with his finger i count the blade of grass under my nose till the wind drop and he have go he and his hammer. 
be it thor then. una murmur under her breath. 
who else. it be thor s own day. puck repeat the sign. i didn t tell sir huon or his lady what i d see. borrow trouble for yourself if that s your nature but don t lend it to your neighbour. moreover i might have be mistake about the smith s work. he might have be make thing for mere amusement though it wasn t like him or he might have throw away an old piece of make iron. one can never be sure. so i hold my tongue and enjoy the babe. he be a wonderful child and the people of the hill be so set on him they wouldn t have believe me. he take to me wonderfully. a soon a he could walk he d putter forth with me all about my hill here. fern make soft fall. he know when day break on earth above for he d thump thump thump like an old buck rabbit in a bury and i d hear him say opy. till some one who know the charm let him out and then it would be robin. robin. all round robin hood s barn a we say till he d find me. 
the dear. say una. i d like to have see him. yes he be a boy. and when it come to learn his word spell and such like he d sit on the hill in the long shadow worry out bit of charm to try on passersby. and when the bird fly to him or the tree bow to him for pure love s sake. like everything else on my hill. he d shout robin. look see. look see robin. and sputter out some spell or other that they have teach him all wrong end first till i hadn t the heart to tell him it be his own dear self and not the word that work the wonder. when he get more abreast of his word and could cast spell for sure a we say he take more and more notice of thing and people in the world. people of course always draw him for he be mortal all through. 
see that he be free to move among folk in housen under or over cold iron i use to take him along with me night walk where he could watch folk and i could keep him from touch cold iron. that wasn t so difficult a it sound because there be plenty of thing besides cold iron in housen to catch a boy s fancy. he be a handful though. i shan t forget when i take him to little linden his first night under a roof. the smell of the rushlight and the bacon on the beam they be stuff a feather bed too and it be a drizzle warm night get into his head. before i could stop him we be hide in the bakehouse he d whip up a storm of wildfire with flashlight and voice which send the folk shriek into the garden and a girl overset a hive there and of course he didn t know till then such thing could touch him he get badly sting and come home with his face look like kidney potato. you can imagine how angry sir huon and lady esclairmonde be with poor robin. they say the boy be never to be trust with me night walk any more and he take about a much notice of their order a he do of the bee sting. night after night a soon a it be dark i d pick up his whistle in the wet fern and off we d flit together among folk in housen till break of day he ask question and i answer accord to my knowledge. then we fell into mischief again. puck shake till the gate rattle. 
we come across a man up at brightling who be beat his wife with a bat in the garden. i be just go to toss the man over his own woodlump when the boy jump the hedge and run at him. of course the woman take her husband s part and while the man beat him the woman scratted his face. it wasn t till i dance among the cabbage like brightling beacon all ablaze that they give up and run indoors. the boy s fine green and gold clothe be tear all to piece and he have be welt in twenty place with the man s bat and scratted by the woman s nail to piece. he look like a robertsbridge hopper on a monday morning. 
robin say he while i be try to clean him down with a bunch of hay i don t quite understand folk in housen. i go to help that old woman and she hit me robin. 
what else do you expect. i say. that be the one time when you might have work one of your charm instead of run into three time your weight. 
i didn t think he say. but i catch the man one on the head that be a good a any charm. do you see it work robin. 
mind your nose i say. bleed it on a dockleaf not your sleeve for pity s sake. i know what the lady esclairmonde would say. 
he didn t care. he be a happy a a gipsy with a steal pony and the front part of his gold coat all blood and grass stain look like ancient sacrifice. 
of course the people of the hill lay the blame on me. the boy could do nothing wrong in their eye. 
you be bring him up to act and influence on folk in housen when you re ready to let him go i say. now he s begin to do it why do you cry shame on me. that s no shame. it s his nature draw him to his kind. 
but we don t want him to begin that way the lady esclairmonde say. we intend a splendid fortune for him not your flitter by night hedge jump gipsy work. 
i don t blame you robin say sir huon but i do think you might look after the boy more closely. 
i ve keep him away from cold iron these sixteen year i say. you know a well a i do the first time he touch cold iron he ll find his own fortune in spite of everything you intend for him. you owe me something for that. 
sir huon have be a man be go to allow me the right of it but the lady esclairmonde be the mother of all mother over persuade him. 
we re very grateful sir huon say but we think that just for the present you be about too much with him on the hill. 
though you have say it i say i will give you a second chance. i do not like be call to account for my do on my own hill. i wouldn t have stand it even that far except i love the boy. 
no. no. say the lady esclairmonde. he s never any trouble when he s leave to me and himself. it s your fault. 
you have say it i answer. hear me. from now on till the boy ha find his fortune whatever that may be i vow to you all on my hill by oak and ash and thorn and by the hammer of asa thor again puck make that curious double cut in the air that you may leave me out of all your count and reckoning. then i go out he snap his finger like the puff of a candle and though they call and cry they make nothing by it. i didn t promise not to keep an eye on the boy though. i watch him close close close. 
when he find what his people have force me to do he give them a piece of his mind but they all kiss and cry round him and be only a boy he come over to their way of think. i don t blame him. and call himself unkind and ungrateful. and it all end in fresh show and play and magic to distract him from folk in housen. dear heart alive. how he use to call and call on me and i couldn t answer or even let him know that i be near. 
not even once. say una. if he be very lonely. no he couldn t say dan who have be think. didn t you swear by the hammer of thor that you wouldn t puck. 
by that hammer. be the deep rumble reply. then he come back to his soft speak voice. and the boy be lonely when he couldn t see me any more. he begin to try to learn all learn. he have good teacher. but i saw him lift his eye from the big black book towards folk in housen all the time. he study song make. good teacher he have too. but he sing those song with his back toward the hill and his face toward folk. i know. i have sit and grieve over him grieve within a rabbit s jump of him. then he study the high low and middle magic. he have promise the lady esclairmonde he would never go near folk in housen. so he have to make show and shadow for his mind to chew on. what sort of show. say dan. 
just boy s magic a we say. i ll show you some some time. it please him for the while and it didn t hurt any one in particular except a few men come home late from the tavern. but i know what it be a sign of and i follow him like a weasel follow a rabbit. a good a boy a ever live. i ve see him with sir huon and the lady esclairmonde step just a they step to avoid the track of cold iron in a furrow or walk wide of some old ash tot because a man have leave his swop hook or spade there. and all his heart ache to go straightforward among folk in housen all the time. oh a good boy. they always intend a fine fortune for him but they could never find it in their heart to let him begin. i ve hear that many warn them but they wouldn t be warn. so it happen a it happen. 
one hot night i saw the boy rove about here wrap in his flame discontent. there be flash on flash against the cloud and rush on rush of shadow down the valley till the shaw be full of his hound give tongue and the woodways be pack with his knight in armour rid down into the water mist all his own magic of course. behind them you could see great castle lift slow and splendid on arch of moonshine with maiden wave their hand at the window which all turn into roar river. and then would come the darkness of his own young heart wipe out the whole slateful. but boy s magic doesn t trouble me or merlin s either for that matter. i follow the boy by the flash and the whirl wildfire of his discontent and oh but i grieve for him. oh but i grieve for him. he pound back and forth like a bullock in a strange pasture sometimes alone sometimes waist deep among his shadow hound sometimes lead his shadow knight on a hawk wing horse to rescue his shadow girl. i never guess he have such magic at his command. but it s often that way with boy. 
just when the owl come home for the second time i saw sir huon and the lady ride down my hill where there s not much magic allow except mine. they be very please at the boy s magic the valley flare with it and i hear them settle his splendid fortune when they should find it in their heart to let him go to act and influence among folk in housen. sir huon be for make him a great king somewhere or other and the lady be for make him a marvellous wise man whom all should praise for his skill and kindness. she be very kind hearted. 
of a sudden we saw the flash of his discontent turn back on the cloud and his shadow hound stop bay. 
there s magic fight magic over yonder the lady esclairmonde cry reign up. who be against him. 
i could have tell her but i do not count it any of my business to speak of asa thor s coming and going. 
how do you know. say una. 
a slow north east wind blow up saw and fret through the oak in a way i remember. the wildfire roar up one last time in one sheet and snuff out like a rushlight and a bucketful of sting hail fell. we hear the boy walk in the long slip where i first meet you. 
here oh come here. say the lady esclairmonde and stretch out her arm in the dark. 
he be come slowly but he stumble in the footpath be of course mortal man. 
why what s this. he say to himself. we three hear him. 
hold lad hold. ware cold iron. say sir huon and they two sweep down like nightjar cry a they ride. 
i run at their stirrup but it be too late. we felt that the boy have touch cold iron somewhere in the dark for the horse of the hill shy off and whip round snort. 
then i judge it be time for me to show myself in my own shape. so i do. 
whatever it be i say he ha take hold of it. now we must find out whatever it be that he ha take hold of for that will be his fortune. 
come here robin the boy shout a soon a he hear my voice. i don t know what i ve hold of. 
it be in your hand i call back. tell u if it be hard and cold with jewel atop. for that will be a king s sceptre. 
not by a furrow long he say and stoop and tug in the dark. we hear him. ha it a handle and two cut edge. i call. for that ll be a knight s sword. 
no it hasn t he say. it s neither ploughshare whittle hook nor crook nor aught i ve yet see men handle. by this time he be scratting in the dirt to prise it up. 
whatever it be you know who put it there robin say sir huon to me or you would not ask those question. you should have tell me a soon a you know. 
what could you or i have do against the smith that make it and lay it for him to find. i say and i whisper sir huon what i have see at the forge on thor s day when the babe be first bring to the hill. 
oh good bye our dream. say sir huon. it s neither sceptre sword nor plough. maybe yet it s a bookful of learn bind with iron clasp. there s a chance for a splendid fortune in that sometimes. 
but we know we be only speak to comfort ourselves and the lady esclairmonde have be a woman say so. 
thur aie. thor help u. the boy call. it be round without end cold iron four finger wide and a thumb thick and there be write on the breadth of it. 
read the write if you have the learn i call. the darkness have lift by then and the owl be out over the fern again. 
he call back read the rune on the iron. 
few can see further forth than when the child meet the cold iron. 
and there he stand in clear starlight with a new heavy shin slave ring round his proud neck. 
be this how it go. he ask while the lady esclairmonde cry. 
that be how it go i say. he hadn t snap the catch home yet though. 
what fortune doe it mean for him. say sir huon while the boy finger the ring. you who walk under cold iron you must tell u and teach u. 
tell i can but teach i cannot i say. the virtue of the ring be only that he must go among folk in housen henceforward do what they want do or what he know they need all old england over. never will he be his own master nor yet ever any man s. he will get half he give and give twice what he get till his life s last breath. and if he lay aside his load before he draw that last breath all his work will go for naught. 
oh cruel wicked thor. cry the lady esclairmonde. ah look see all of you. the catch be still open. he hasn t lock it. he can still take it off. he can still come back. come back. she go a near a she dare but she could not lay hand on cold iron. the boy could have take it off yes. we wait to see if he would but he put up his hand and the snap lock home. 
what else could i have do. say he. 
surely then you will do i say. morning s come and if you three have any farewell to make make them now for after sunrise cold iron must be your master. so the three sit down cheek by wet cheek tell over their farewell till morning light. a good a boy a ever live he be. 
and what happen to him. ask dan. 
when morning come cold iron be master of him and his fortune and he go to work among folk in housen. presently he come across a maid like mind with himself and they be wed and have bushel of child a the say be. perhaps you ll meet some of his breed this year. 
thank you say una. but what do the poor lady esclairmonde do. 
what can you do when asa thor lay the cold iron in a lad s path. she and sir huon be comfort to think they have give the boy good store of learn to act and influence on folk in housen. for he be a good boy. isn t it get on for breakfast time. i ll walk with you a piece. 
when they be well in the centre of the bone dry fern dan nudge una who stop and put on a boot a quickly a she could. now she say you can t get any oak ash and thorn leaf from here and she balance wildly on one leg i m stand on cold iron. what ll you do if we don t go away. 
e eh. of all mortal impudence. say puck a dan also in one boot grab his sister s hand to steady himself. he walk round them shake with delight. you think i can only work with a handful of dead leaf. this come of take away your doubt and fear. i ll show you. 
a minute late they charge into old hobden at his simple breakfast of cold roast pheasant shout that there be a wasp nest in the fern which they have nearly step on and ask him to come and smoke it out. it s too early for wop nest an i don t go diggin in the hill not for shillin s say the old man placidly. you ve a thorn in your foot miss una. sit down and put on your t other boot. you re too old to be caperin barefoot on an empty stomach. stay it with this chicken o mine. 
cold iron. 
gold be for the mistress silver for the maid. copper for the craftsman cunning at his trade. good. say the baron sit in his hall but iron cold iron be master of them all. 
so he make rebellion gainst the king his liege camp before his citadel and summon it to siege nay. say the cannoneer on the castle wall but iron cold iron shall be master of you all. 
woe for the baron and his knight so strong when the cruel cannon ball lay em all along. he be take prisoner he be cast in thrall and iron cold iron be master of it all. 
yet his king spake kindly. oh how kind a lord. what if i release thee now and give thee back thy sword. nay. say the baron mock not at my fall for iron cold iron be master of men all. 
tear be for the craven prayer be for the clown halter for the silly neck that cannot keep a crown. a my loss be grievous so my hope be small for iron cold iron must be master of men all. 
yet his king make answer. few such king there be. here be bread and here be wine sit and sup with me. eat and drink in mary s name the while i do recall how iron cold iron can be master of men all. 
he take the wine and bless it. he bless and brake the bread. with his own hand he serve them and presently he say. look. these hand they pierce with nail outside my city wall show iron cold iron to be master of men all. 
wound be for the desperate blow be for the strong balm and oil for weary heart all cut and bruise with wrong. i forgive thy treason i redeem thy fall for iron cold iron must be master of men all. 
crown be for the valiant sceptre for the bold. throne and power for mighty men who dare to take and hold. nay. say the baron kneel in his hall but iron cold iron be master of men all. iron out of calvary be master of men all. 
gloriana. 
the two cousin. 
valour and innocence have latterly go hence to certain death by certain shame attend. envy ah. even to tear. the fortune of their year which though so few yet so divinely end. 
scarce have they lift up life s full and fiery cup than they have set it down untouched before them. before their day arise they beckon it to close close in destruction and confusion o er them. 
they do not stay to ask what prize should crown their task well sure that prize be such a no man strive for. but pass into eclipse her kiss upon their lip even belphoebe s whom they give their life for. 
gloriana. 
willow shaw the little fence wood where the hop pole be stack like indian wigwam have be give to dan and una for their very own kingdom when they be quite small. a they grow old they contrive to keep it most particularly private. even phillips the gardener tell them every time that he come in to take a hop pole for his bean and old hobden would no more have think of set his rabbit wire there without leave give fresh each spring than he would have tear down the calico and mark ink notice on the big willow which say. grow up not allow in the kingdom unless bring. 
now you can understand their indignation when one blowy july afternoon a they be go up for a potato roast they saw somebody move among the tree. they hurl themselves over the gate drop half the potato and while they be pick them up puck come out of a wigwam. 
oh it s you be it. say una. we think it be people. i saw you be angry from your leg he answer with a grin. 
well it s our own kingdom not count you of course. 
that s rather why i come. a lady here want to see you. 
what about. say dan cautiously. oh just kingdom and thing. she know about kingdom. 
there be a lady near the fence dress in a long dark cloak that hide everything except her high red heel shoe. her face be half cover by a black silk fringe mask without goggle. and yet she do not look in the least a if she motor. 
puck lead them up to her and bow solemnly. una make the best dance lesson curtsy she could remember. the lady answer with a long deep slow billowy one. 
since it seem that you be a queen of this kingdom she say i can do no le than acknowledge your sovereignty. she turn sharply on star dan. what s in your head lad. manner. 
i be think how wonderfully you do that curtsy he answer. 
she laugh a rather shrill laugh. you re a courtier already. do you know anything of dance wench or queen must i say. 
i ve have some lesson but i can t really dance a bite say una. 
you should learn then. the lady move forward a though she would teach her at once. it give a woman alone among men or her enemy time to think how she shall win or lose. a woman can only work in man s play time. heigho. she sit down on the bank. 
old middenboro the lawn mower pony stump across the paddock and hang his sorrowful head over the fence. 
a pleasant kingdom say the lady look round. well enclose. and how doe your majesty govern it. who be your minister. 
una do not quite understand. we don t play that she say. 
play. the lady throw up her hand and laugh. 
we have it for our own together dan explain. 
and d you never quarrel young burleigh. 
sometimes but then we don t tell. 
the lady nod. i ve no brat of my own but i understand keep a secret between queen and their minister. ay de mi. 
but with no disrespect to present majesty methinks your realm small and therefore likely to be covet by man and beast. for be example she point to middenboro yonder old horse with the face of a spanish friar doe he never break in. 
he can t. old hobden stop all our gap for u say una and we let hobden catch rabbit in the shaw. 
the lady laugh like a man. i see. hobden catch cony rabbit for himself and guard your defence for you. doe he make a profit out of his coney catch. 
we never ask say una. hobden s a particular friend of ours. hoity toity. the lady begin angrily. then she laugh. but i forget. it be your kingdom. i know a maid once that have a large one than this to defend and so long a her men keep the fence stop she ask em no question either. 
be she try to grow flower. say una. 
no tree perdurable tree. her flower all wither. the lady lean her head on her hand. 
they do if you don t look after them. we ve get a few. would you like to see. i ll fetch you some. una run off to the rank grass in the shade behind the wigwam and come back with a handful of red flower. aren t they pretty. she say. they re virginia stock. 
virginia. say the lady and lift them to the fringe of her mask. 
yes. they come from virginia. do your maid ever plant any. 
not herself but her men adventure all over the earth to pluck or to plant flower for her crown. they judge her worthy of them. 
and be she. say dan cheerfully. 
quien sabe. [who know. ] but at least while her men toil abroad she toil in england that they might find a safe home to come back to. 
and what be she call. 
gloriana belphoebe elizabeth of england. her voice change at each word. 
you mean queen be. 
the lady bow her head a little towards dan. you name her lightly enough young burleigh. what might you know of her. say she. 
well i i ve see the little green shoe she leave at brickwall house down the road you know. they re in a glass case awfully tiny thing. 
oh burleigh burleigh. she laugh. you be a courtier too soon. 
but they be dan insist. a little a doll shoe. do you really know her well. 
well. she be a woman. i ve be at her court all my life. yes i remember when she dance after the banquet at brickwall. they say she dance philip of spain out of a brand new kingdom that day. worth the price of a pair of old shoe hey. 
she thrust out one foot and stoop forward to look at it broad flash buckle. 
you ve hear of philip of spain long suffer philip she say her eye still on the shin stone. faith what some men will endure at some woman s hand pass belief. if i have be a man and a woman have play with me a elizabeth play with philip i would have she nip off one of the virginia stock and hold it up between finger and thumb. but for all that she begin to strip the leaf one by one they say and i be persuade that philip love her. she toss her head sideways. 
i don t quite understand say una. 
the high heaven forbid that you should wench. she sweep the flower from her lap and stand up in the rush of shadow that the wind chase through the wood. 
i should like to know about the shoe say dan. 
so ye shall burleigh. so ye shall if ye watch me. twill be a good a a play. 
we ve never be to a play say una. 
the lady look at her and laugh. i ll make one for you. watch. you be to imagine that she gloriana belphoebe elizabeth ha go on a progress to rye to comfort her sad heart. maid be often melancholic. and while she halt at brickwall house the village what be it name. she push puck with her foot. 
norgem he croak and squat by the wigwam. 
norgem village loyally entertain her with a masque or play and a latin oration speak by the parson for whose false quantity if i d make em in my girlhood i should have be whip. 
you whip. say dan. 
soundly sirrah soundly. she stomach the affront to her scholarship make her grateful gracious thank from the teeth outwards thus. the lady yawn. oh a queen may love her subject in her heart and yet be dog weary of em in body and mind and so sit down her skirt foam about her a she sit to a banquet beneath brickwall oak. here for her sin she be wait upon by what be the young cockerel name that serve gloriana at table. 
frewens courthopes fuller husseys puck begin. 
she hold up her long jewel hand. spare the rest. they be the best blood of sussex and by so much the more clumsy in handle the dish and plate. wherefore she look funnily over her shoulder you be to think of gloriana in a green and gold lace habit dreadfully expect that the jostle youth behind her would of pure jealousy or devotion spatter it with sauce and wine. the gown be philip s gift too. at this happy juncture a queen s messenger mount and mire spur up the rye road and deliver her a letter she giggle a letter from a good simple frantic spanish gentleman call don philip. 
that wasn t philip king of spain. dan ask. 
truly it be. twixt you and me and the bedpost young burleigh these king and queen be very like men and woman and i ve hear they write each other fond foolish letter that none of their minister should open. 
do her minister ever open queen elizabeth s letter. say una. 
faith yes. but she d have do a much for theirs any day. you be to think of gloriana then. they say she have a pretty hand. excuse herself thus to the company for the queen s time be never her own and while the music strike up read philip s letter a i do. she draw a real letter from her pocket and hold it out almost at arm s length like the old post mistress in the village when she read telegram. 
hm. hm. hm. philip write a ever most lovingly. he say his gloriana be cold for which reason he burn for her through a fair write page. she turn it with a snap. what s here. philip complain that certain of her gentleman have fight against his general in the low country. he pray her to hang em when they re enter her realm. hm that s a may be. here s a list of burn ship slip between two vow of burn adoration. oh poor philip. his admiral at sea no le than three of em have be board sack and scuttle on their lawful voyage by certain english mariner. gentleman he will not call them. who be now at large and work more piracy in his american ocean which the pope give him. he and the pope should guard it then. philip hear but his devout ear will not credit it that gloriana in some fashion countenance these villain misdeed share in their booty and oh shame. ha even lend them ship royal for their sinful theft. therefore he require. which be a word gloriana love not. require that she shall hang em when they return to england and afterwards shall account to him for all the good and gold they have plunder. a most love request. if gloriana will not be philip s bride she shall be his broke and his butch. should she still be stiff neck he write see where the pen digged the innocent paper. that he hath both the mean and the intention to be revenge on her. aha. now we come to the spaniard in his shirt. she wave the letter merrily. listen here. philip will prepare for gloriana a destruction from the west a destruction from the west far exceed that which pedro de avila work upon the huguenot. and he rest and remain kiss her foot and her hand her slave her enemy or her conqueror a he shall find that she us him. 
she thrust back the letter under her cloak and go on act but in a soft voice. all this while hark to it the wind blow through brickwall oak the music play and with the company s eye upon her the queen of england must think what this mean. she cannot remember the name of pedro de avila nor what he do to the huguenot nor when nor where. she can only see darkly some dark motion move in philip s dark mind for he hath never write before in this fashion. she must smile above the letter a though it be good news from her minister the smile that tire the mouth and the poor heart. what shall she do. again her voice change. 
you be to fancy that the music of a sudden waver away. chris hatton captain of her bodyguard quit the table all red and ruffle and gloriana s virgin ear catch the clash of sword at work behind a wall. the mother of sussex look round to count their chick i mean those young gamecock that wait on her. two dainty youth have step aside into brickwall garden with rapier and dagger on a private point of honour. they be hale out through the gate disarm and glare the lively image of a brace of young cupid transform into pale pant cain. ahem. gloriana beckon awfully thus. they come up for judgement. their life and estate lie at her mercy whom they have doubly offend both a queen and woman. but la. what will not foolish young men do for a beautiful maid. 
why. what do she do. what have they do. say una. 
hsh. you mar the play. gloriana have guess the cause of the trouble. they be handsome lad. so she frown a while and tell em not to be big fool than their mother have make em and warn em if they do not kiss and be friend on the instant she ll have chris hatton horse and birch em in the style of the new school at harrow. chris look sour at that. lastly because she need time to think on philip s letter burn in her pocket she signify her pleasure to dance with em and teach em good manner. whereat the revive company call down heaven s bless on her gracious head. chris and the others prepare brickwall house for a dance. and she walk in the clip garden between those two lovely young sinner who be both ready to sink for shame. they confess their fault. it appear that midway in the banquet the elder they be cousin conceive that the queen look upon him with special favour. the young take the look to himself after some word give the elder the lie. hence a she guess the duel. 
and which have she really look at. dan ask. 
neither except to wish them farther off. she be afraid all the while they d spill dish on her gown. she tell em this poor chick and it complete their abasement. when they have grill long enough she say. and so you would have flesh your maiden sword for me for me. faith they would have be at it again if she d egg em on. but their sword oh prettily they say it. have be draw for her once or twice already. 
and where. say she. on your hobby horse before you be breeched. 
on my own ship say the elder. my cousin be vice admiral of our venture in his pinnace. we would not have you think of u a brawl child. 
no no say the young and flame like a very tudor rise. at least the spaniard know u good. 
admiral boy vice admiral babe say gloriana i cry your pardon. the heat of these present time ripen childhood to age more quickly than i can follow. but we be at peace with spain. where do you break your queen s peace. on the sea call the spanish main though ti no more spanish than my doublet say the elder. guess how that warm gloriana s already melt heart. she would never suffer any sea to be call spanish in her private hear. 
and why be i not tell. what booty get you and where have you hide it. disclose say she. you stand in some danger of the gallows for pirate. 
the axe most gracious lady say the elder for we be gentle bear. he speak truth but no woman can brook contradiction. hoity toity. say she and but that she remember that she be queen she d have cuff the pair of em. it shall be gallows hurdle and dung cart if i choose. 
have our queen know of our go beforehand philip might have hold her to blame for some small thing we do on the sea the young lisp. 
a for treasure say the elder we bring back but our bare life. we be wreck on the gascons graveyard where our sole company for three month be the bleach bone of de avila s men. 
gloriana s mind jump back to philip s last letter. 
de avila that destroy the huguenot. what d you know of him. she say. the music call from the house here and they three turn back between the yew. 
simply that de avila break in upon a plantation of frenchman on that coast and very spaniardly hang them all for heretic eight hundred or so. the next year dominique de gorgues a gascon break in upon de avila s men and very justly hang em all for murderer five hundred or so. no christian inhabit there now say the elder lad though ti a goodly land north of florida. 
how far be it from england. ask prudent gloriana. 
with a fair wind six week. they say that philip will plant it again soon. this be the young and he look at her out of the corner of his innocent eye. 
chris hatton fume meet and lead her into brickwall hall where she dance thus. a woman can think while she dance can think. i ll show you. watch. 
she take off her cloak slowly and stand forth in dive colour satin work over with pearl that tremble like run water in the run shadow of the tree. still talk more to herself than to the child she swim into a majestical dance of the stately balancing the naughty wheeling and turning aside the most dignify sinking the grave rising all join together by the elaborate interlace step and circle. they lean forward breathlessly to watch the splendid act. 
would a spaniard she begin look on the grind speak of his revenge till his revenge be ripe. no. yet a man who love a woman might threaten her in the hope that his threat would make her love him. such thing have be. she move slowly across a bar of sunlight. a destruction from the west may signify that philip mean to descend on ireland. but then my irish spy would have have some warn. the irish keep no secret. no it be not ireland. now why why why the red shoe click and pause doe philip name pedro melendez de avila a general in his america unless she turn more quickly unless he intend to work his destruction from the america. do he say de avila only to put her off her guard or for this once ha his black pen betray his black heart. we she raise herself to her full height england must forestall master philip. but not openly she sink again we cannot fight spain openly not yet not yet. she step three pace a though she be peg down some snare with her twinkle shoe buckle. the queen s mad gentleman may fight philip s poor admiral where they find em but england gloriana harry s daughter must keep the peace. perhaps after all philip love her a many men and boy do. that may help england. oh what shall help england. 
she raise her head the mask head that seem to have nothing to do with the busy foot and star straight at the child. 
i think this be rather creepy say una with a shiver. i wish she d stop. 
the lady hold out her jewel hand a though she be take some one else s hand in the grand chain. 
can a ship go down into the gascons graveyard and wait there. she ask into the air and pass on rustle. 
she s pretend to ask one of the cousin isn t she. say dan and puck nod. 
back she come in the silent sway ghostly dance. they saw she be smile beneath the mask and they could hear her breathe hard. 
i cannot lend you any of my ship for the venture. philip would hear of it she whisper over her shoulder. but a much gun and powder a you ask if you do not ask too her voice shoot up and she stamp her foot thrice. loud. loud the music in the gallery. oh me but i have burst out of my shoe. 
she gather her skirt in each hand and begin a curtsy. you will go at your own charge she whisper straight before her. oh enviable and adorable age of youth. her eye shine through the mask hole. but i warn you you ll repent it. put not your trust in prince or queen. philip s ship ll blow you out of water. you ll not be frighten. well we ll talk on it again when i return from rye dear lad. 
the wonderful curtsy end. she stand up. nothing stir on her except the rush of the shadow. 
and so it be finish she say to the child. why d you not applaud. 
what be finish. say una. 
the dance the lady reply offendedly. and a pair of green shoe. 
i don t understand a bite say una. 
eh. what do you make of it young burleigh. 
i m not quite sure dan begin but. 
you never can be with a woman. but. 
but i think gloriana mean the cousin to go back to the gascons graveyard wherever that be. 
twas virginia after ward. her plantation of virginia. 
virginia afterwards and stop philip from take it. didn t she say she d lend em gun. 
right so. but not ship then. 
and i think you mean they must have tell her they d do it off their own bat without get her into a row with philip. be i right. 
near enough for a minister of the queen. but remember she give the lad full time to change their mind. she be three long day at rye royal knight of fat mayor. when she come back to brickwall they meet her a mile down the road and she could feel their eye burn through her rid mask. chris hatton poor fool be vex at it. 
you would not birch them when i give you the chance say she to chris. now you must get me half an hour s private speech with em in brickwall garden. eve tempt adam in a garden. quick man or i may repent. 
she be a queen. why do she not send for them herself. say una. 
the lady shake her head. that be never her way. i ve see her walk to her own mirror by bye end and the woman that cannot walk straight there be past pray for. yet i would have you pray for her. what else what else in england s name could she have do. she lift her hand to her throat for a moment. faith she cry i d forget the little green shoe. she leave em at brickwall so she do. and i remember she give the norgem parson john wither be he. a text for his sermon over edom have i cast out my shoe. neat if he d understand. 
i don t understand say una. what about the two cousin. 
you be a cruel a a woman the lady answer. i be not to blame. i tell you i give em time to change their mind. on my honour. ay de mi. she ask no more of em at first than to wait a while off that coast the gascons graveyard to hover a little if their ship chance to pas that way they have only one tall ship and a pinnace only to watch and bring me word of philip s do. one must watch philip always. what a murrain right have he to make any plantation there a hundred league north of his spanish main and only six week from england. by my dread father s soul i tell you he have none none. she stamp her red foot again and the two child shrink back for a second. 
nay nay. you must not turn from me too. she lay it all fairly before the lad in brickwall garden between the yew. i tell em that if philip send a fleet. and to make a plantation he could not well send le. their poor little cock boat could not sink it. they answer that with submission the fight would be their own concern. she show em again that there could be only one end to it quick death on the sea or slow death in philip s prison. they ask no more than to embrace death for my sake. many men have pray to me for life. i ve refuse em and sleep none the bad after. but when my men my tall fantastical young men beseech me on their knee for leave to die for me it shake me ah it shake me to the marrow of my old bone. her chest sound like a board a she hit it. she show em all. i tell em that this be no time for open war with spain. if by miracle inconceivable they prevail against philip s fleet philip would hold me accountable. for england s sake to save war i should e en be force. i tell em so. to give him up their young life. if they fail and again by some miracle escape philip s hand and creep back to england with their bare life they must lie oh i tell em all under my sovereign displeasure. she could not know them see them nor hear their name nor stretch out a finger to save them from the gallows if philip choose to ask it. 
be it the gallows then say the elder. i could have weep but that my face be make for the day. 
either way any way this venture be death which i know you fear not. but it be death with assure dishonour i cry. 
yet our queen will know in her heart what we have do say the young. sweetheart i say. a queen ha no heart. 
but she be a woman and a woman would not forget say the elder. we will go. they kneel at my foot. 
nay dear lad but here. i say and i open my arm to them and i kiss them. 
be rule by me i say. we ll hire some ill feature old tarry breeks of an admiral to watch the graveyard and you shall come to court. 
hire whom you please say the elder. we be rule by you body and soul. and the young who shake most when i kiss em say between his white lip i think you have power to make a god of a man. 
come to court and be sure of t i say. 
they shake their head and i know i know that go they would. if i have not kiss them perhaps i might have prevail. 
then why do you do it. say una. i don t think you know really what you want do. 
may it please your majesty the lady bow her head low this gloriana whom i have represent for your pleasure be a woman and a queen. remember her when you come to your kingdom. 
but do the cousin go to the gascons graveyard. say dan a una frown. 
they go say the lady. 
do they ever come back. una begin. but do they stop king philip s fleet. dan interrupt. 
the lady turn to him eagerly. 
d you think they do right to go. she ask. 
i don t see what else they could have do dan reply after think it over. 
d you think she do right to send em. the lady s voice rise a little. 
well say dan i don t see what else she could have do either do you. how do they stop king philip from get virginia. 
there s the sad part of it. they sail out that autumn from rye royal and there never come back so much a a single rope yarn to show what have befall them. the wind blow and they be not. doe that make you alter your mind young burleigh. i expect they be drown then. anyhow philip didn t score do he. 
gloriana wipe out her score with philip late. but if philip have win would you have blame gloriana for waste those lad life. 
of course not. she be bind to try to stop him. 
the lady cough. you have the root of the matter in you. be i queen i d make you minister. 
we don t play that game say una who felt that she dislike the lady a much a she dislike the noise the high wind make tear through willow shaw. 
play. say the lady with a laugh and throw up her hand affectedly. the sunshine catch the jewel on her many ring and make them flash till una s eye dazzle and she have to rub them. then she saw dan on his knee pick up the potato they have spill at the gate. 
there wasn t anybody in the shaw after all he say. didn t you think you saw someone. 
i m most awfully glad there isn t say una. then they go on with the potato roast. 
the look glass. 
queen be be harry s daughter. 
the queen be in her chamber and she be middle old her petticoat be satin and her stomacher be gold. backwards and forward and sideways do she pas make up her mind to face the cruel look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a comely or a kindly or a young a once she be. 
the queen be in her chamber a comb of her hair there come queen mary s spirit and it stand behind her chair sing backwards and forward and sideways you may pas but i will stand behind you till you face the look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a lovely or unlucky or a lonely a i be. 
the queen be in her chamber a weep very sore there come lord leicester s spirit and it scratch upon the door sing backwards and forward and sideways may you pas but i will walk beside you till you face the look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a hard and unforgiving or a wicked a you be. 
the queen be in her chamber. her sin be on her head. she look the spirit up and down and statelily she say. backwards and forward and sideways though i ve be yet i be harry s daughter and i be england s queen. and she face the look glass. and whatever else there be. and she saw her day be over and she saw her beauty pas in the cruel look glass that can always hurt a lass more hard than any ghost there be or any man there be. 
the wrong thing. 
a truthful song. 
the bricklayer. 
i tell this tale which be strictly true just by way of convince you how very little since thing be make thing have alter in the build trade. 
a year ago come the middle o march we be build flat near the marble arch when a thin young man with coal black hair come up to watch u work there. 
now there wasn t a trick in brick or stone that this young man hadn t see or know. nor there wasn t a tool from trowel to maul but this young man could use em all. then up and speak the plumbyers bold which be lay the pipe for the hot and cold. since you with u have make so free will you kindly say what your name might be. 
the young man kindly answer them. it might be lot or methusalem or it might be moses. a man i hate. whereas it be pharaoh surnamed the great. 
your glaze be new and your plumb s strange but other wise i perceive no change and in le than a month if you do a i bid i d learn you to build me a pyramid. 
the sailor. 
i tell this tale which be strict true just by way of convince you how very little since thing be make thing have alter in the shipwright s trade. 
in blackwall basin yesterday a china barque re fit lay when a fat old man with snow white hair come up to watch u work there. 
now there wasn t a knot which the rigger know but the old man make it and good too. nor there wasn t a sheet or a lift or a brace but the old man know it lead and place. 
then up and spake the caulkyers bold which be pack the pump in the after hold. since you with u have make so free will you kindly tell what your name might be. 
the old man kindly answer them. it might be japhet it might be shem or it might be ham. though his skin be dark. whereas it be noah command the ark. 
your wheel be new and your pump be strange but otherwise i perceive no change and in le than a week if she do not grind i d sail this hooker the wide world round. 
both. we tell these tale which be strict true etc. 
the wrong thing. 
dan have go in for build model boat. but after he have fill the schoolroom with chip which he expect una to clear away they turn him out of door and he take all his tool up the hill to mr springett s yard where he know he could make a much mess a he choose. old mr springett be a builder contractor and sanitary engineer and his yard which open off the village street be always full of interest thing. at one end of it be a long loft reach by a ladder where he keep his iron bind scaffold plank tin of paint pulley and odds and end he have find in old house. he would sit here by the hour watch his cart a they load or unload in the yard below while dan gouge and grunt at the carpenter s bench near the loft window. mr springett and dan have always be particular friend for mr springett be so old he could remember when railway be be make in the southern county of england and people be allow to drive dog in cart. 
one hot still afternoon the tar paper on the roof smelt like ship dan in his shirt sleeve be smooth down a new schooner s bow and mr springett be talk of barn and house he have build. he say he never forget any stick or stone he have ever handle or any man woman or child he have ever meet. just then he be very proud of the village hall at the entrance of the village which he have finish a few week before. 
an i don t mind tellin you mu dan he say that the hall will be my last job top of this mortal earth. i didn t make ten pound no nor yet five out o the whole contrac but my name s letter on the foundation stone ralph springett builder and the stone she s bed on four foot good concrete. if she shift any time these five hundred year i ll sure ly turn in my grave. i tell the lunnon architec so when he come down to oversee my work. 
what do he say. dan be sandpaper the schooner s port bow. 
nothing. the hall ain t more than one of his small job for him but tain t small to me an my name be cut and letter frontin the village street i do hope an pray for time everlastin. you ll want the little round file for that holler in her bow. who s there. mr springett turn stiffly in his chair. 
a long pile of scaffold plank run down the centre of the loft. dan look and saw hal o the draft s touzled head beyond them. [see hal o the draft in puck of pook s hill. ]. 
be you the builder of the village hall. he ask of mr springett. 
i be be the answer. but if you want a job. 
hal laugh. no faith. he say. only the hall be a good and honest a piece of work a i ve ever run a rule over. so be bear hereabouts and be reckon a master among mason and accept a a master mason i make bold to pay my brotherly respect to the builder. 
aa um. mr springett look important. i be a bite rusty but i ll try ye. 
he ask hal several curious question and the answer must have please him for he invite hal to sit down. hal move up always keep behind the pile of plank so that only his head show and sit down on a trestle in the dark corner at the back of mr springett s desk. he take no notice of dan but talk at once to mr springett about brick and cement and lead and glass and after a while dan go on with his work. he know mr springett be please because he tug his white sandy beard and smoke his pipe in short puff. the two men seem to agree about everything but when grow up agree they interrupt each other almost a much a if they be quarrel. hal say something about workman. 
why that s what i always say mr springett cry. a man who can only do one thing he s but next above fool to the man that can t do nothin. that s where the union make their mistake. 
my think to the very dot. dan hear hal slap his tight hose leg. i ve suffer in my time from these same guild union d you call em. all their precious talk of the mystery of their trade why what doe it come to. 
nothin. you ve justabout hit it say mr springett and ram his hot tobacco with his thumb. 
take the art of wood carve hal go on. he reach across the plank grab a wooden mallet and move his other hand a though he want something. mr springett without a word pass him one of dan s broad chisel. ah. wood carve for example. if you can cut wood and have a fair draft of what ye mean to do a heaven s name take chisel and maul and let drive at it say i. you ll soon find all the mystery forsooth of wood carve under your proper hand. whack come the mallet on the chisel and a sliver of wood curl up in front of it. mr springett watch like an old raven. 
all art be one man one. say hal between whack. and to wait on another man to finish out. 
to finish out your work ain t no sense mr springett cut in. that s what i m always sayin to the boy here. he nod towards dan. that s what i say when i put the new wheel into brewster s mill in eighteen hundred seventy two. i reckon i be millwright enough for the job thout bringin a man from lunnon. an besides dividin work eat up profit no bound. 
hal laugh his beautiful deep laugh and mr springett join in till dan laugh too. 
you handle your tool i can see say mr springett. i reckon if you re any way like me you ve find yourself hinder by those guild do you call em. union we say. 
you may say so. hal point to a white scar on his cheekbone. this be a remembrance from the master watch foreman of mason on magdalen tower because please you i dare to carve stone without their leave. they say a stone have slip from the cornice by accident. 
i know them accident. there s no way to disprove em. an stone ain t the only thing that slip mr springett grunt. hal go on. 
i ve see a scaffold plank keckle and shoot a too clever workman thirty foot on to the cold chancel floor below. and a rope can break yes natural a nature. an lime ll fly up in a man s eye without any breath o wind sometimes say mr springett. but who s to show twasn t a accident. 
who do these thing. dan ask and straighten his back at the bench a he turn the schooner end for end in the vice to get at her counter. 
them which don t wish other men to work no good nor quick than they do growl mr springett. don t pinch her so hard in the vice mu dan. put a piece o rag in the jaw or you ll bruise her. more than that he turn towards hal if a man ha his private spite lay up against you the union give him his excuse for workin it off. 
well i know it say hal. 
they never let you go them spiteful one. i know a plasterer in eighteen hundred sixty one down to the well. he be a frenchy a bad enemy he be. i have mine too. he be an italian call benedetto. i meet him first at oxford on magdalen tower when i be learn my trade or trade i should say. a bad enemy he be a you say but he come to be my singular good friend say hal a he put down the mallet and settle himself comfortably. 
what might his trade have be plaster mr springett ask. 
plaster of a sort. he work in stucco fresco we call it. make picture on plaster. not but what he have a fine sweep of the hand in draw. he d take the long side of a cloister trowel on his stuff and roll out his great all abroad picture of saint and croppy top tree quick a a webster unroll cloth almost. oh benedetto could draw but a be a little mind man profess to be full of secret of colour or plaster common trick all of em and his one single talk be how tom dick or harry have steal this or t other secret art from him. 
i know that sort say mr springett. there s no keep peace or make peace with such. an they re mostly bear an bone idle. 
true. even his fellow countryman laugh at his jealousy. we two come to loggerhead early on magdalen tower. i be a youngster then. maybe i speak my mind about his work. 
you shouldn t never do that. mr springett shake his head. that sort lay it up against you. 
true enough. this benedetto do most specially. body o me the man live to hate me. but i always keep my eye open on a plank or a scaffold. i be mighty glad to be shut of him when he quarrel with his guild foreman and go off nose in air and paint under his arm. but hal lean forward if you hate a man or a man hate you. 
i know. you re everlastin run acrost him mr springett interrupt. excuse me sir. he lean out of the window and shout to a carter who be load a cart with brick. 
ain t you no more sense than to heap em up that way. he say. take an throw a hundred of em off. it s more than the team can compass. throw em off i tell you and make another trip for what s leave over. excuse me sir. you be sayin. 
i be say that before the end of the year i go to bury to strengthen the lead work in the great abbey east window there. 
now that s just one of the thing i ve never do. but i mind there be a cheap excursion to chichester in eighteen hundred seventy nine an i go an watch em leadin a win erful fine window in chichester cathedral. i stay watchin till twas time for u to go back. dunno a i have two drink p rap all that day. 
hal smile. at bury then sure enough i meet my enemy benedetto. he have paint a picture in plaster on the south wall of the refectory a noble place for a noble thing a picture of jonah. 
ah. jonah an his whale. i ve never be a far a bury. you ve work about a lot say mr springett with his eye on the carter below. 
no. not the whale. this be a picture of jonah and the pompion that wither. but all that benedetto have show be a peevish grey beard huggled up in angle edge drapery beneath a pompion on a wooden trellis. this last be a dead thing he d draw it a twere to the life. but fierce old jonah bar in the sun angry even to death that his cold prophecy be disproven jonah ashamed and already hear the child of nineveh run to mock him ah that be what benedetto have not draw. 
he good ha stick to his whale then say mr springett. 
he d ha do no good with that. he draw the damp cloth off the picture an show it to me. i be a craftsman too d ye see. 
ti good i say but it go no deep than the plaster. 
what. he say in a whisper. 
be thy own judge benedetto i answer. doe it go deep than the plaster. 
he reel against a piece of dry wall. no he say and i know it. i could not hate thee more than i have do these five year but if i live i will try hal. i will try. then he go away. i pity him but i have speak truth. his picture go no deep than the plaster. 
ah. say mr springett who have turn quite red. you be talkin so fast i didn t understand what you be drivin at. i ve see men good workman they be try to do more than they could do and and they couldn t compass it. they know it and it nigh break their heart like. you be in your right o course sir to say what you think o his work. but if you ll excuse me be you in your duty. 
i be wrong to say it hal reply. god forgive me i be young. he be workman enough himself to know where he fail. but it all come even in the long run. by the same token do ye ever hear o one torrigiano torrisany we call him. 
i can t say i ever do. be he a frenchy like. 
no a hector hard mouth long sworded italian builder a vain a a peacock and a strong a a bull but mark you a master workman. more than that he could get his best work out of the bad men. 
which it s a gift. i have a foreman bricklayer like him once say mr springett. he use to prod em in the back like with a point trowel and they do wonder. 
i ve see our torrisany lay a prentice down with one buffet and raise him with another to make a mason of him. i work under him at build a chapel in london a chapel and a tomb for the king. 
i never know king go to chapel much say mr springett. but i always hold with a man don t care who he be seein about his own grave before he dy. tidn t the sort of thing to leave to your family after the will s read. i reckon twas a fine vault. 
none fine in england. this torrigiano have the contract for it a you d say. he pick master craftsman from all part england france italy the low country no odds to him so long a they know their work and he drive them like like pig at brightling fair. he call u english all pig. we suffer it because he be a master in his craft. if he misliked any work that a man have do with his own great hand he d rive it out and tear it down before u all. ah you pig you english pig. he d scream in the dumb wretch s face. you answer me. you look at me. you think at me. come out with me into the cloister. i will teach you carve myself. i will gild you all over. but when his passion have blow out he d slip his arm round the man s neck and impart knowledge worth gold. twould have do your heart good mu springett to see the two hundred of u mason jeweller carver gilder iron worker and the rest all toil like cock angel and this mad italian hornet flee one to next up and down the chapel. do your heart good it would. 
i believe you say mr springett. in eighteen hundred fifty four i mind the railway be bein make into hastin s. there be two thousand navvy on it all young all strong an i be one of em. oh dearie me. excuse me sir but be your enemy workin with you. 
benedetto. be sure he be. he follow me like a lover. he paint picture on the chapel ceiling sling from a chair. torrigiano make u promise not to fight till the work should be finish. we be both master craftsman do ye see and he need u. none the le i never go aloft to carve thout test all my rope and knot each morning. we be never far from each other. benedetto ud sharpen his knife on his sole while he wait for his plaster to dry wheet wheet wheet. i d hear it where i hang chip round a pillar head and we d nod to each other friendly like. oh he be a craftsman be benedetto but his hate spoil his eye and his hand. i mind the night i have finish the model for the bronze saint round the tomb. torrigiano embrace me before all the chapel and bid me to supper. i meet benedetto when i come out. he be slaver in the porch like a mad dog. 
workin himself up to it. say mr springett. do he have it in at ye that night. 
no no. that time he keep his oath to torrigiano. but i pity him. eh well. now i come to my own folly. i have never think too little of myself. but after torrisany have put his arm round my neck i i hal break into a laugh i lay there be not much odds twixt me and a cock sparrow in his pride. 
i be pretty middlin young once on a time say mr springett. 
then ye know that a man can t drink and dice and dress fine and keep company above his station but his work suffer for it mu springett. 
i never hold much with dressin up but you re right. the bad mistake i ever make they be make of a monday morning mr springett answer. we ve all be one sort of fool or t other. mu dan mu dan take the small gouge or you ll be spluttin her stem work clean out. can t ye see the grain of the wood don t favour a chisel. 
i ll spare you some of my folly. but there be a man call brygandyne bob brygandyne clerk of the king s ship a little smooth bustle atomy a clever a a woman to get work do for nothin a win erful smooth tongue pleader. he make much o me and ask me to draft him out a draw a piece of carve and gild scroll work for the bow of one of the king s ship the sovereign be her name. 
be she a man of war. ask dan. 
she be a warship and a woman call catherine of castile desire the king to give her the ship for a pleasure ship of her own. i do not know at the time but she d be at bob to get this scroll work do and fit that the king might see it. i make him the picture in an hour all of a heat after supper one great heave play of dolphin and a neptune or so rein in webby foot sea horse and arion with his harp high atop of them. it be twenty three foot long and maybe nine foot deep paint and gild. 
it must ha justabout look fine say mr springett. 
that s the curiosity of it. twas bad rank bad. in my conceit i must need show it to torrigiano in the chapel. he straddle his leg hunch his knife behind him and whistle like a storm cock through a sleet shower. benedetto be behind him. we be never far apart i ve tell you. 
that be pig s work say our master. swine s work. you make any more such thing even after your fine court supper and you shall be send away. 
benedetto lick his lip like a cat. it be so bad then master. he say. what a pity. 
yes say torrigiano. scarcely you could do thing so bad. i will condescend to show. 
he talk to me then and there. no shout no swear. it be too bad for that. but good memorable counsel bite in slowly. then he set me to draft out a pair of iron gate to take a he say the taste of my naughty dolphin out of my mouth. iron s sweet stuff if you don t torture her and hammer work be all pure truthful line with a reason and a support for every curve and bar of it. a week at that settle my stomach handsomely and the master let me put the work through the smithy where i sweat out more of my foolish pride. 
good stuff be good iron say mr springett. i do a pair of lodge gate once in eighteen hundred sixty three. 
oh i forget to say that bob brygandyne whip away my draft of the ship s scroll work and would not give it back to me to re draw. he say twould do well enough. howsoever my lawful work keep me too busy to remember him. body o me but i work that winter upon the gate and the bronze for the tomb a i d never work before. i be lean than a lath but i live i live then. hal look at mr springett with his wise crinkle up eye and the old man smile back. 
ouch. dan cry. he have be hollow out the schooner s after deck the little gouge have slip and gash the ball of his leave thumb an ugly triangular tear. 
that come of not steady your wrist say hal calmly. don t bleed over the wood. do your work with your heart s blood but no need to let it show. he rise and peer into a corner of the loft. 
mr springett have rise too and sweep down a ball of cobweb from a rafter. 
clap that on be all he say and put your handkerchief atop. twill cake over in a minute. it don t hurt now do it. 
no say dan indignantly. you know it ha happen lot of time. i ll tie it up myself. go on sir. 
and it ll happen hundred of time more say hal with a friendly nod a he sit down again. but he do not go on till dan s hand be tie up properly. then he say. 
one dark december day too dark to judge colour we be all sit and talk round the fire in the chapel. you hear good talk there. when bob brygandyne bustle in and hal you re send for he squeal. i be at torrigiano s foot on a pile of put lock a i might be here toast a herring on my knife s point. twas the one english thing our master like salt herring. 
i m busy about my art i call. 
art. say bob. what s art compare to your scroll work for the sovereign. come. 
be sure your sin will find you out say torrigiano. go with him and see. a i follow bob out i be aware of benedetto like a black spot when the eye be tire sliddering up behind me. 
bob hurry through the street in the raw fog slip into a doorway up stair along passage and at last thrust me into a little cold room vilely hang with flemish tapestry and no furnish except a table and my draft of the sovereign s scrollwork. here he leaf me. presently come in a dark long nose man in a fur cap. 
master harry dawe. say he. 
the same i say. where a plague ha bob brygandyne go. 
his thin eyebrow surge up in a piece and come down again in a stiff bar. he go to the king he say. 
all one. where s your pleasure with me. i say shiver for it be mortal cold. 
he lay his hand flat on my draft. master dawe he say do you know the present price of gold leaf for all this wicked gild of yours. 
by that i guess he be some cheese par clerk or other of the king s ship so i give him the price. i forget it now but it work out to thirty pound carve gild and fit in place. 
thirty pound. he say a though i have pull a tooth of him. you talk a though thirty pound be to be have for the ask. none the le he say your draft s a fine piece of work. 
i d be look at it ever since i come in and twas vile even than i judge it at first. my eye and hand have be purify the past month d ye see by my iron work. 
i could do it good now i say. the more i study my squabby neptune the le i like em. and arion be a pure flame shame atop of the unbalance dolphin. 
i doubt it will be fresh expense to draft it again he say. 
bob never pay me for the first draft. i lay he ll never pay me for the second. twill cost the king nothing if i re draw it i say. 
there s a woman wish it to be do quickly he say. we ll stick to your first draw master dawe. but thirty pound be thirty pound. you must make it le. 
and all the while the fault in my draft fair leap out and hit me between the eye. at any cost i think to myself i must get it back and re draft it. he grunt at me impatiently and a splendid think come to me which shall save me. by the same token it be quite honest. 
they ain t always say mr springett. how do you get out of it. 
by the truth. i say to master fur cap a i might to you here i say i ll tell you something since you seem a knowledgeable man. be the sovereign to lie in thames river all her day or will she take the high sea. 
oh he say quickly the king keep no cat that don t catch mouse. she must sail the sea master dawe. she ll be hire to merchant for the trade. she ll be out in all shape o weather. doe that make any odds. 
why then say i the first heavy sea she stick her nose into ll claw off half that scroll work and the next will finish it. if she s mean for a pleasure ship give me my draft again and i ll porture you a pretty light piece of scroll work good cheap. if she s mean for the open sea pitch the draft into the fire. she can never carry that weight on her bow. 
he look at me squintlings and pluck his under lip. 
be this your honest unswayed opinion. he say. 
body o me. ask about. i say. any seaman could tell you ti true. i m advise you against my own profit but why i do so be my own concern. 
not altogether he say. it s some of mine. you ve save me thirty pound master dawe and you ve give me good argument to use against a willful woman that want my fine new ship for her own toy. we ll not have any scroll work. his face shin with pure joy. 
then see that the thirty pound you ve save on it be honestly pay the king i say and keep clear o woman folk. i gather up my draft and crumple it under my arm. if that s all you need of me i ll be go i say. i m press. 
he turn him round and fumble in a corner. too press to be make a knight sir harry. he say and come at me smile with three quarter of a rusty sword. 
i pledge you my mark i never guess it be the king till that moment. i kneel and he tap me on the shoulder. 
rise up sir harry dawe he say and in the same breath i m press too and slip through the tapestry leave me like a stick calf. 
it come over me in a bitter wave like that here be i a master craftsman who have work no bound soul or body to make the king s tomb and chapel a triumph and a glory for all time. and here d ye see i be make knight not for anything i d slave over or give my heart and gut to but expressedly because i d save him thirty pound and a tongue lash from catherine of castille she that have ask for the ship. that think shrivel me with inside while i be fold away my draft. on the heel of it maybe you ll see why i begin to grin to myself. i think of the earnest simplicity of the man the king i should say because i d save him the money. his smile a though he d win half france. i think of my own silly pride and foolish expectation that some day he d honour me a a master craftsman. i think of the break tip sword he d find behind the hanging. the dirt of the cold room and his cold eye wrap up in his own concern scarcely rest on me. then i remember the solemn chapel roof and the bronze about the stately tomb he d lie in and d ye see. the unreason of it all the mad high humour of it all take hold on me till i sit me down on a dark stair head in a passage and laugh till i could laugh no more. what else could i have do. 
i never hear his foot behind me he always walk like a cat but his arm slide round my neck pull me back where i sit till my head lay on his chest and his leave hand hold the knife plumb over my heart benedetto. even so i laugh the fit be beyond my hold laugh while he grind his teeth in my ear. he be stark craze for the time. 
laugh he say. finish the laughter. i ll not cut ye short. tell me now he wrench at my head why the king choose to honour you you you you lickspittle englishman. i be full of patience now. i have wait so long. then he be off at score about his jonah in bury refectory and what i d say of it and his picture in the chapel which all men praise and none look at twice. a if that be my fault. and a whole parcel of word and look treasure up against me through year. 
ease off your arm a little i say. i cannot die by choke for i be just dub knight benedetto. 
tell me and i ll confess ye sir harry dawe knight. there s a long night before ye. tell say he. 
so i tell him his chin on my crown tell him all. tell it a well and with a many word a i have ever tell a tale at a supper with torrigiano. i know benedetto would understand for mad or sad he be a craftsman. i believe it to be the last tale i d ever tell top of mortal earth and i would not put out bad work before i leave the lodge. all art s one art a i say. i bore benedetto no malice. my spirit d ye see be catch up in a high solemn exaltation and i saw all earth s vanity foreshorten and little lay out below me like a town from a cathedral scaffold. i tell him what befall and what i think of it. i give him the king s very voice at master dawe you ve save me thirty pound. his peevish grunt while he look for the sword. and how the badger eye figure of glory and victory leer at me from the flemish hanging. body o me twas a fine noble tale and a i think my last work on earth. 
that be how i be honour by the king i say. they ll hang ye for kill me benedetto. and since you ve kill in the king s palace they ll draw and quarter you. but you re too mad to care. grant me though ye never hear a good tale. he say nothing but i felt him shake. my head on his chest shake. his right arm fell away his leave drop the knife and he lean with both hand on my shoulder shake shake. i turn me round. no need to put my foot on his knife. the man be speechless with laughter honest craftsman s mirth. the first time i d ever see him laugh. you know the mirth that cut off the very breath while ye stamp and snatch at the short rib. that be benedetto s case. 
when he begin to roar and bay and whoop in the passage i hale him out into the street and there we lean against the wall and have it all over again wave our hand and wag our head till the watch come to know if we be drink. 
benedetto say to em solemn a an owl. you have save me thirty pound mu dawe and off he peal. in some sort we be mad drink i because dear life have be give back to me and he because a he say afterwards because the old crust of hatred round his heart be break up and carry away by laughter. his very face have change too. 
hal he cry i forgive thee. forgive me too hal. oh you english you english. do it gall thee hal to see the rust on the dirty sword. tell me again hal how the king grunt with joy. oh let u tell the master. 
so we reel back to the chapel arm round each other s neck and when we could speak he think we d be fight we tell the master. yes we tell torrigiano and he laugh till he roll on the new cold pavement. then he knock our head together. 
ah you english. he cry. you be more than pig. you be english. now you be well punish for your dirty fish. put the draft in the fire and never do so any more. you be a fool hal and you be a fool benedetto but i need your work to please this beautiful english king. 
and i mean to kill hal say benedetto. master i mean to kill him because the english king have make him a knight. 
ah. say the master shake his finger. benedetto if you have kill my hal i should have kill you in the cloister. but you be a craftsman too so i should have kill you like a craftsman very very slowly in an hour if i could spare the time. that be torrigiano the master. 
mr springett sit quite still for some time after hal have finish. then he turn dark red. then he rock to and fro. then he cough and wheeze till the tear run down his face. dan know by this that he be laugh but it surprise hal at first. 
excuse me sir say mr springett but i be thinkin of some stable i build for a gentleman in eighteen hundred seventy four. they be stable in blue brick very particular work. dunno a they weren t the best job which ever i d do. but the gentleman s lady she d come from lunnon new marry she be all for buildin what be call a haw haw what you an me ud call a dik right acrost his park. a middlin big job which i d have have the contract of for she speak to me in the library about it. but i tell her there be a line o spring just where she want to dig her ditch an she d flood the park if she go on. 
be there any spring at all. say hal. 
bind to be spring everywhere if you dig deep enough ain t there. but what i say about the spring put her out o conceit o diggin haw haw an she take an build a white tile dairy instead. but when i send in my last bill for the stable the gentleman he pay it thout even lookin at it and i hadn t forget nothin i do assure you. more than that he slip two five pound note into my hand in the library an ralph he say he allers call me by name ralph he say you ve save me a heap of expense an trouble this autumn. i didn t say nothin o course. i know he didn t want any haw haw digged acrost his park no more n i do but i never say nothin. no more he didn t say nothin about my blue brick stable which be really the best an honest piece o work i d do in quite a while. he give me ten pound for savin him a hem of a deal o trouble at home. i reckon thing be pretty much alike all time in all place. 
hal and he laugh together. dan couldn t quite understand what they think so funny and go on with his work for some time without speak. 
when he look up mr springett alone be wipe his eye with his green and yellow pocket handkerchief. 
bless me mu dan i ve be asleep he say. an i ve dream a dream which ha make me laugh laugh a i ain t laugh in a long day. i can t remember what twas all about but they do say that when old men take to laughin in their sleep they re middlin ripe for the next world. have you be workin honest mu dan. 
ra ather say dan unclamping the schooner from the vice. and look how i ve cut myself with the small gouge. 
ye e. you want a lump o cobweb to that say mr springett. oh i see you ve put it on already. that s right mu dan. 
king henry vii and the shipwright. 
harry our king in england from london town be go and comen to hamull on the hoke in the countie of suthampton. for there lay the mary of the tower his ship of war so strong and he would discover certaynely if his shipwright do him wrong. 
he tell not none of his set forth nor yet where he would go. but only my lord of arundel. and meanly do he show in an old jerkin and patch hose that no man might him mark. with his frieze hood and cloak about he look like any clerk. he be at hamull on the hoke about the hour of the tide and saw the mary hale into dock the winter to abide with all her tackle and habiliment which be the king his own. but then run on his false shipwright and strip her to the bone. 
they heave the main mast overboard that be of a trusty tree and they write down it be spend and lose by force of weather at sea. but they sawen it into plank and strake a far a it might go to maken bed for their own wife and little child also. 
there be a knave call slingawai he crope beneath the deck cry. good felawes come and see. the ship be nigh a wreck. for the storm that take our tall main mast it blow so fierce and fell alack. it hath take the kettle and pan and this brass pott a well. 
with that he set the pott on his head and hie him up the hatch while all the shipwright run below to find what they might snatch. all except bob brygandyne and he be a yeoman good he catch slingawai round the waist and throw him on to the mud. 
i have take plank and rope and nail without the king his leave after the custom of portesmouth but i will not suffer a thief. nay never lift up thy hand at me. there s no clean hand in the trade. steal in measure quo brygandyne. there s measure in all thing make. 
gramercy yeoman. say our king. thy counsel liketh me. and he pull a whistle out of his neck and whistle whistle three. then come my lord of arundel prick across the down and behind him the mayor and burgess of merry suthampton town. 
they draw the naughty shipwright up with the kettle in their hand and bind them round the forecastle to wait the king s command. but since ye have make your bed say the king ye need must lie thereon. for the sake of your wife and little one felawes get you go. 
when they have beat slingawai out of his own lip our king appoint brygandyne to be clerk of all his ship. nay never lift up thy hand to me there s no clean hand in the trade. but steal in measure say harry our king. there s measure in all thing make. 
god speed the mary of the tower the sovereign and grace dieu the sweepstakes and the mary fortune and the henry of bristol too. all tall ship that sail on the sea or in our harbour stand that they may keep measure with harry our king and peace in engeland. 
marklake witch. 
the way through the wood. 
they shut the road through the wood seventy year ago. weather and rain have undo it again and now you would never know there be once a road through the wood before they plant the tree. it be underneath the coppice and heath and the thin anemone. only the keeper see that where the ring dive brood and the badger roll at ease there be once a road through the wood. 
yet if you enter the wood of a summer even late when the night air cool on the trout ring pool where the otter whistle his mate. they fear not men in the wood because they see so few. you will hear the beat of a horse s foot and the swish of a skirt in the dew steadily canter through the misty solitude a though they perfectly know the old lose road through the wood. but there be no road through the wood. 
marklake witch. 
when dan take up boat build una coax mr vincey the farmer s wife at little linden to teach her to milk. mr vincey milk in the pasture in summer which be different from milk in the shed because the cow be not tie up and until they know you they will not stand still. after three week una could milk red cow or kitty shorthorn quite dry without her wrist ache and then she allow dan to look. but milk do not amuse him and it be pleasant for una to be alone in the quiet pasture with quiet speak mr vincey. so even after even she slip across to little linden take her stool from the fern clump beside the fall oak and go to work her pail between her knee and her head press hard into the cow s flank. a often a not mr vincey would be milk cross pansy at the other end of the pasture and would not come near till it be time to strain and pour off. 
once in the middle of a milk kitty shorthorn box una s ear with her tail. 
you old pig. say una nearly cry for a cow s tail can hurt. 
why didn t you tie it down child. say a voice behind her. 
i mean to but the fly be so bad i let her off and this be what she s do. una look round expect puck and saw a curly haired girl not much tall than herself but old dress in a curious high waisted lavender colour rid habit with a high hunch collar and a deep cape and a belt fasten with a steel clasp. she wear a yellow velvet cap and tan gauntlet and carry a real hunt crop. her cheek be pale except for two pretty pink patch in the middle and she talk with little gasp at the end of her sentence a though she have be run. 
you don t milk so badly child she say and when she smile her teeth show small and even and pearly. 
can you milk. una ask and then flush for she hear puck s chuckle. 
he step out of the fern and sit down hold kitty short horn s tail. there isn t much he say that miss philadelphia doesn t know about milk or for that matter butter and egg. she s a great housewife. 
oh say una. i m sorry i can t shake hand. mine be all milky. but mr vincey be go to teach me butter make this summer. ah. i m go to london this summer the girl say to my aunt in bloomsbury. she cough a she begin to hum oh what a town. what a wonderful metropolis. 
you ve get a cold say una. 
no. only my stupid cough. but it s vastly good than it be last winter. it will disappear in london air. every one say so. d you like doctor child. 
i don t know any una reply. but i m sure i shouldn t. 
think yourself lucky child. i beg your pardon the girl laugh for una frown. 
i m not a child and my name s una she say. 
mine s philadelphia. but everybody except rene call me phil. i m squire bucksteed s daughter over at marklake yonder. she jerk her little round chin towards the south behind dallington. sure ly you know marklake. 
we go a picnic to marklake green once say una. it s awfully pretty. i like all those funny little road that don t lead anywhere. 
they lead over our land say philadelphia stiffly and the coach road be only four mile away. one can go anywhere from the green. i go to the assize ball at lewes last year. she spin round and take a few dance step but stop with her hand to her side. 
it give me a stitch she explain. no odds. twill go away in london air. that s the late french step child. rene teach it me. d you hate the french chi una. 
well i hate french of course but i don t mind ma m selle. she s rather decent. be rene your french govern. 
philadelphia laugh till she catch her breath again. 
oh no. rene s a french prisoner on parole. that mean he s promise not to escape till he ha be properly exchange for an englishman. he s only a doctor so i hope they win t think him worth exchange. my uncle capture him last year in the ferdinand privateer off belle isle and he cure my uncle of a r r rag toothache. of course after that we couldn t let him lie among the common french prisoner at rye and so he stay with u. he s of very old family a breton which be nearly next door to be a true briton my father say and he wear his hair club not powder. much more become don t you think. 
i don t know what you re una begin but puck the other side of the pail wink and she go on with her milk. he s go to be a great french physician when the war be over. he make me bobbin for my lace pillow now he s very clever with his hand. but he d doctor our people on the green if they would let him. only our doctor doctor break say he s an emp or imp something bad than imposter. but my nurse say. 
nurse. you re ever so old. what have you get a nurse for. una finish milk and turn round on her stool a kitty shorthorn graze off. 
because i can t get rid of her. old cissie nurse my mother and she say she ll nurse me till she dy. the idea. she never let me alone. she think i m delicate. she ha grow infirm in her understand you know. mad quite mad poor cissie. 
really mad. say una. or just silly. 
crazy i should say from the thing she doe. her devotion to me be terribly embarrass. you know i have all the key of the hall except the brewery and the tenant kitchen. i give out all store and the linen and plate. 
how jolly. i love store room and give out thing. 
ah it s a great responsibility you ll find when you come to my age. last year dad say i be fatigue myself with my duty and he actually want me to give up the key to old amoore our housekeeper. i wouldn t. i hate her. i say no sir. i be mistress of marklake hall just a long a i live because i m never go to be marry and i shall give out store and linen till i die. 
and what do your father say. 
oh i threaten to pin a dishclout to his coat tail. he run away. every one s afraid of dad except me. philadelphia stamp her foot. the idea. if i can t make my own father happy in his own house i d like to meet the woman that can and and i d have the live hide off her. 
she cut with her long thonged whip. it crack like a pistol shoot across the still pasture. kitty shorthorn throw up her head and trot away. 
i beg your pardon philadelphia say. but it make me furious. don t you hate those ridiculous old quiz with their feather and front who come to dinner and call you child in your own chair at your own table. 
i don t always come to dinner say una but i hate be call child. please tell me about store room and give out thing. 
ah it s a great responsibility particularly with that old cat amoore look at the list over your shoulder. and such a shock thing happen last summer. poor crazy cissie my nurse that i be tell you of she take three solid silver tablespoon. 
take. but isn t that steal. una cry. 
hsh. say philadelphia look round at puck. all i say be she take them without my leave. i make it right afterwards. so a dad say and he s a magistrate it wasn t a legal offence. it be only compound a felony. 
it sound awful say una. 
it be. my dear i be furious. i have have the key for ten month and i d never lose anything before. i say nothing at first because a big house offer so many chance of thing be mislay and come to hand late. fetch up in the lee scupper my uncle call it. but next week i speak to old cissie about it when she be do my hair at night and she say i wasn t to worry my heart for trifle. 
isn t it like em. una burst out. they see you re worry over something that really matter and they say don t worry. a if that do any good. 
i quite agree with you my dear. quite agree with you. i tell cis the spoon be solid silver and worth forty shilling so if the thief be find he d be try for his life. hang do you mean. una say. 
they ought to be. but dad say no jury will hang a man nowadays for a forty shill theft. they transport em into penal servitude at the uttermost end of the earth beyond the sea for the term of their natural life. i tell cissie that and i saw her tremble in my mirror. then she cry and catch hold of my knee and i couldn t for my life understand what it be all about she cry so. can you guess my dear what that poor crazy thing have do. it be midnight before i piece it together. she have give the spoon to jerry gamm the witchmaster on the green so that he might put a charm on me. me. 
put a charm on you. why. 
that s what i ask. and then i saw how mad poor cissie be. you know this stupid little cough of mine. it will disappear a soon a i go to london. she be trouble about that and about my be so thin and she tell me jerry have promise her if she would bring him three silver spoon that he d charm my cough away and make me plump flesh up she say. i couldn t help laugh. but it be a terrible night. i have to put cissie into my own bed and stroke her hand till she cry herself to sleep. what else could i have do. when she wake and i cough i suppose i can cough in my own room if i please she say that she d kill me and ask me to have her hang at lewes sooner than send her to the uttermost end of the earth away from me. 
how awful. what do you do phil. 
do. i ride off at five in the morning to talk to master jerry with a new lash on my whip. oh i be furious. witchmaster or no witchmaster i mean to. 
ah. what s a witchmaster. 
a master of witch of course. i don t believe there be witch. but people say every village ha a few and jerry be the master of all ours at marklake. he ha be a smuggler and a man of war s man and now he pretend to be a carpenter and joiner he can make almost anything but he really be a white wizard. he cure people by herb and charm. he can cure them after doctor break ha give them up and that s why doctor break hate him so. he use to make me toy cart and charm off my wart when i be a child. philadelphia spread out her hand with the delicate shiny little nail. it isn t count lucky to cross him. he ha his way of get even with you they say. but i wasn t afraid of jerry. i saw him work in his garden and i lean out of my saddle and double thonged him between the shoulder over the hedge. well my dear for the first time since dad give him to me my troubadour. i wish you could see the sweet creature. shy across the road and i spill out into the hedge top. most undignified. jerry pull me through to his side and brush the leaf off me. i be horribly prick but i didn t care. now jerry i say i m go to take the hide off you first and send you to lewes afterwards. you well know why. 
oh. he say and he sit down among his bee hive. then i reckon you ve come about old cissie s business my dear. i reckon i justabout have i say. stand away from these hive. i can t get at you there. that s why i be where i be he say. if you ll excuse me miss phil i don t hold with bein flog before breakfast at my time o life. he s a huge big man but he look so comical squat among the hive that i know i oughtn t to i laugh and he laugh. i always laugh at the wrong time. but i soon recover my dignity and i say then give me back what you make poor cissie steal. 
your pore cissie he say. she s a hatful o trouble. but you shall have em miss phil. they re all ready put by for you. and would you believe it the old sinner pull my three silver spoon out of his dirty pocket and polish them on his cuff. here they be he say and he give them to me just a cool a though i d come to have my wart charm. that s the bad of people have know you when you be young. but i preserve my composure. jerry i say what in the world be we to do. if you d be catch with these thing on you you d have be hang. 
i know it he say. but they re yours now. 
but you make my cissie steal them i say. 
that i didn t he say. your cissie she be pickin at me an tarrifyin me all the long day an every day for week to put a charm on you miss phil an take away your little spitty cough. 
yes. i know that jerry and to make me flesh up. i say. i m much oblige to you but i m not one of your pig. 
ah. i reckon she ve be talk to you then he say. yes she give me no peace and bein tarrified for i don t hold with old woman i lay a task on her which i think ud silence her. i never reckon the old scrattle ud risk her neckbone at lewes assize for your sake miss phil. but she do. she up an steal i tell ye a cheerful a a tinker. you might ha knock me down with any one of them liddle spoon when she brung em in her apron. 
do you mean to say then that you do it to try my poor cissie. i scream at him. 
what else for dearie. he say. i don t stand in need of hedge stealing. i m a freeholder with money in the bank. and now i win t trust woman no more. silly old besom. i do beleft she d ha steal the squire s big fob watch if i d require her. 
then you re a wicked wicked old man i say and i be so angry that i couldn t help cry and of course that make me cough. 
jerry be in a fearful take. he pick me up and carry me into his cottage it s full of foreign curiosity and he get me something to eat and drink and he say he d be hang by the neck any day if it please me. he say he d even tell old cissie he be sorry. that s a great comedown for a witchmaster you know. 
i be ashamed of myself for be so silly and i dab my eye and say the least you can do now be to give poor cis some sort of a charm for me. 
yes that s only fair dealing he say. you know the name of the twelve apostle dearie. you say them name one by one before your open window rain or storm wet or shine five time a day fast. but mind you twixt every name you draw in your breath through your nose right down to your pretty liddle toe a long and a deep a you can and let it out slow through your pretty liddle mouth. there s virtue for your cough in those name speak that way. and i ll give you something you can see moreover. here s a stick of maple which be the warm tree in the wood. that s true una interrupt. you can feel it almost a warm a yourself when you touch it. 
it s cut one inch long for your every year jerry say. that s sixteen inch. you set it in your window so that it hold up the sash and thus you keep it rain or shine or wet or fine day and night. i ve say word over it which will have virtue on your complaint. 
i haven t any complaint jerry i say. it s only to please cissie. 
i know that a well a you do dearie he say. and and that be all that come of my go to give him a flog. i wonder whether he make poor troubadour shy when i lash at him. jerry ha his way of get even with people. 
i wonder say una. well do you try the charm. do it work. 
what nonsense. i tell rene about it of course because he s a doctor. he s go to be a most famous doctor. that s why our doctor hate him. rene say oho. your master gamm he be worth know and he put up his eyebrow like this. he make joke of it all. he can see my window from the carpenter s shed where he work and if ever the maple stick fell down he pretend to be in a fearful take till i prop the window up again. he use to ask me whether i have say my apostle properly and how i take my deep breath. oh yes and the next day though he have be there ever so many time before he put on his new hat and pay jerry gamm a visit of state a a fellow physician. jerry never guess rene be make fun of him and so he tell rene about the sick people in the village and how he cure them with herb after doctor break have give them up. jerry could talk smuggler french of course and i have teach rene plenty of english if only he wasn t so shy. they call each other monsieur gamm and mosheur lanark just like gentleman. i suppose it amuse poor rene. he hasn t much to do except to fiddle about in the carpenter s shop. he s like all the french prisoner always make knickknack. and jerry have a little lathe at his cottage and so and so rene take to be with jerry much more than i approve of. the hall be so big and empty when dad s away and i will not sit with old amoore she talk so horridly about every one specially about rene. 
i be rude to rene i m afraid. but i be properly serve out for it. one always be. you see dad go down to hastings to pay his respect to the general who command the brigade there and to bring him to the hall afterwards. dad tell me he be a very brave soldier from india he be colonel of dad s regiment the thirty third foot after dad leave the army and then he change his name from wesley to wellesley or else the other way about. and dad say i be to get out all the silver for him and i know that mean a big dinner. so i send down to the sea for early mackerel and have such a morning in the kitchen and the store room. old amoore nearly cry. 
however my dear i make all my preparation in ample time but the fish didn t arrive it never doe and i want rene to ride to pevensey and bring it himself. he have go over to jerry of course a he always use unless i request his presence beforehand. i can t send for rene every time i want him. he should be there. now don t you ever do what i do child because it s in the high degree unladylike. but but one of our wood run up to jerry s garden and if you climb it s ungenteel but i can climb like a kitten there s an old hollow oak just above the pigsty where you can hear and see everything below. truthfully i only go to tell rene about the mackerel but i saw him and jerry sit on the seat play with wooden toy trumpet. so i slip into the hollow and choke down my cough and listen. rene have never show me any of these trumpet. 
trumpet. aren t you too old for trumpet. say una. 
they weren t real trumpet because jerry open his short collar and rene put one end of his trumpet against jerry s chest and put his ear to the other. then jerry put his trumpet against rene s chest and listen while rene breathe and cough. i be afraid i would cough too. 
this hollywood one be the best say jerry. ti win erful like hearin a man s soul whisperin in his innards. but unless i ve a buzzin in my ear mosheur lanark you make much about the same kind o noise a old gaffer macklin but not quite so loud a young copper. it sound like breaker on a reef a long way off. comprenny. 
perfectly say rene. i drive on the breaker. but before i strike i shall save hundred thousand million perhaps by my little trumpet. now tell me what sound the old gaffer macklin have make in his chest and what the young copper also. 
jerry talk for nearly a quarter of an hour about sick people in the village while rene ask question. then he sigh and say you explain very well monsieur gamm but if only i have your opportunity to listen for myself. do you think these poor people would let me listen to them through my trumpet for a little money. no. rene s a poor a a church mouse. 
they d kill you mosheur. it s all i can do to coax em to abide it and i m jerry gamm say jerry. he s very proud of his attainment. 
then these poor people be alarm no. say rene. 
they ve have it in at me for some time back because o my tryin your trumpet on their sick. and i reckon by the talk at the alehouse they win t stand much more. tom dunch an some of his kidney be drinkin themselves riot ripe when i pass along after noon. charm an mutterin s an bit o red wool an black hen be in the way o nature to these fool mosheur. but anything likely to do em real service be devil s work by their estimation. if i be you i d go home before they come. jerry speak quite quietly and rene shrug his shoulder. 
i be prisoner on parole monsieur gamm he say. i have no home. 
now that be unkind of rene. he s often tell me that he look on england a his home. i suppose it s french politeness. 
then we ll talk o something that matter say jerry. not to name no name mosheur lanark what might be your own opinion o some one who ain t old gaffer macklin nor young copper. be that person good or bad. 
good for time that be say rene. he mean for the time be but i never could teach him some phrase. 
i think so too say jerry. but how about time to come. 
rene shake his head and then he blow his nose. you don t know how odd a man look blow his nose when you be sit directly above him. 
i ve think that too say jerry. he rumble so deep i could scarcely catch. it don t make much odds to me because i m old. but you re young mosheur you re young and he put his hand on rene s knee and rene cover it with his hand. i didn t know they be such friend. 
thank you mon ami say rene. i be much oblige. let u return to our trumpet make. but i forget he stand up it appear that you receive this afternoon. 
you can t see into gamm s lane from the oak but the gate open and fat little doctor break stump in mop his head and half a dozen of our people follow him very drink. 
you ought to have see rene bow. he doe it beautifully. 
a word with you laennec say doctor break. jerry ha be practise some devilry or other on these poor wretch and they ve ask me to be arbiter. 
whatever that mean i reckon it s safe than ask you to be doctor say jerry and tom dunch one of our carter laugh. 
that ain t right feel of you tom jerry say see how clever doctor break put away your thorn in the flesh last winter. tom s wife have die at christmas though doctor break bleed her twice a week. doctor break dance with rage. 
this be all beside the mark he say. these good people be will to testify that you ve be impudently pry into god s secret by mean of some papistical contrivance which this person he point to poor rene ha furnish you with. why here be the thing themselves. rene be hold a trumpet in his hand. 
then all the men talk at once. they say old gaffer macklin be die from stitch in his side where jerry have put the trumpet they call it the devil s ear piece. and they say it leave round red witch mark on people s skin and dry up their light and make em spit blood and throw em into sweat. terrible thing they say. you never hear such a noise. i take advantage of it to cough. 
rene and jerry be stand with their back to the pigsty. jerry fumble in his big flap pocket and fish up a pair of pistol. you ought to have see the men give back when he cock his. he pass one to rene. 
wait. wait. say rene. i will explain to the doctor if he permit. he wave a trumpet at him and the men at the gate shout don t touch it doctor. don t lay a hand to the thing. 
come come. say rene. you be not so big fool a you pretend. no. 
doctor break back toward the gate watch jerry s pistol and rene follow him with his trumpet like a nurse try to amuse a child and put the ridiculous thing to his ear to show how it be use and talk of la gloire and l humanite and la science while doctor break watch jerry s pistol and swear. i nearly laugh aloud. 
now listen. now listen. say rene. this will be money in your pocket my dear confrere. you will become rich. 
then doctor break say something about adventurer who could not earn an honest live in their own country creep into decent house and take advantage of gentleman s confidence to enrich themselves by base intrigue. 
rene drop his absurd trumpet and make one of his best bow. i know he be angry from the way he roll his r s. 
v r ry good say he. for that i shall have much pleasure to kill you now and here. monsieur gamm another bow to jerry you will please lend him your pistol or he shall have mine. i give you my word i know not which be best. and if he will choose a second from his friend over there another bow to our drunken yokel at the gate we will commence. 
that s fair enough say jerry. tom dunch you owe it to the doctor to be his second. place your man. no say tom. no mixin in gentry s quarrel for me. and he shake his head and go out and the others follow him. 
hold on say jerry. you ve forget what you set out to do up at the alehouse just now. you be goin to search me for witch mark. you be goin to duck me in the pond. you be goin to drag all my bit o stick out o my little cottage here. what s the matter with you. wouldn t you like to be with your old woman tonight tom. 
but they didn t even look back much le come. they run to the village alehouse like hare. 
no matter for these canaille say rene button up his coat so a not to show any linen. all gentleman do that before a duel dad say and he s be out five time. you shall be his second monsieur gamm. give him the pistol. 
doctor break take it a if it be red hot but he say that if rene resign his pretension in certain quarter he would pas over the matter. rene bow deep than ever. 
a for that he say if you be not the ignorant which you be you would have know long ago that the subject of your remark be not for any live man. 
i don t know what the subject of his remark might have be but he speak in a simply dreadful voice my dear and doctor break turn quite white and say rene be a liar. and then rene catch him by the throat and choke him black. 
well my dear a if this wasn t deliciously excite enough just exactly at that minute i hear a strange voice on the other side of the hedge say what s this. what s this bucksteed. and there be my father and sir arthur wesley on horseback in the lane. and there be rene kneel on doctor break and there be i up in the oak listen with all my ear. 
i must have lean forward too much and the voice give me such a start that i slip. i have only time to make one jump on to the pigsty roof another before the tile break on to the pigsty wall and then i bounce down into the garden just behind jerry with my hair full of bark. imagine the situation. 
oh i can. una laugh till she nearly fell off the stool. 
dad say phil a del phia. and sir arthur wesley say good ged and jerry put his foot on the pistol rene have drop. but rene be splendid. he never even look at me. he begin to untwist doctor break s neckcloth a fast a he d twist it and ask him if he felt good. 
what s happen. what s happen. say dad. 
a fit. say rene. i fear my confrere ha have a fit. do not be alarm. he recover himself. shall i bleed you a little my dear doctor. doctor break be very good too. he say i be vastly oblige monsieur laennec but i be restore now. and a he go out of the gate he tell dad it be a syncope i think. then sir arthur say quite right bucksteed. not another word. they be both gentleman. and he take off his cock hat to doctor break and rene. 
but poor dad wouldn t let well alone. he keep say philadelphia what doe all this mean. 
well sir i say i ve only just come down. a far a i could see it look a though doctor break have have a sudden seizure. that be quite true if you d see rene seize him. sir arthur laugh. not much change there bucksteed he say. she s a lady a thorough lady. 
heaven know she doesn t look like one say poor dad. go home philadelphia. 
so i go home my dear don t laugh so. right under sir arthur s nose a most enormous nose feel a though i be twelve year old go to be whip. oh i beg your pardon child. 
it s all right say una. i m get on for thirteen. i ve never be whip but i know how you felt. all the same it must have be funny. 
funny. if you d hear sir arthur jerk out good ged bucksteed. every minute a they ride behind me. and poor dad say pon my honour arthur i can t account for it. oh how my cheek tingle when i reach my room. but cissie have lay out my very best even dress the white satin one vandyked at the bottom with spot of morone foil and the pearl knot you know catch up the drapery from the leave shoulder. i have poor mother s lace tucker and her coronet comb. 
oh you lucky. una murmur. and glove. 
french kid my dear philadelphia pat her shoulder and morone satin shoe and a morone and gold crape fan. that restore my calm. nice thing always do. i wear my hair band on my forehead with a little curl over the leave ear. and when i descend the stair en grande tenue old amoore curtsy to me without my have to stop and look at her which ala. be too often the case. sir arthur highly approve of the dinner my dear. the mackerel do come in time. we have all the marklake silver out and he toast my health and he ask me where my little bird s nest sister be. i know he do it to quiz me so i look him straight in the face my dear and i say i always send her to the nursery sir arthur when i receive guest at marklake hall. 
oh how chee clever of you. what do he say. una cry. he say not much change there bucksteed. ged i deserve it and he toast me again. they talk about the french and what a shame it be that sir arthur only command a brigade at hastings and he tell dad of a battle in india at a place call assaye. dad say it be a terrible fight but sir arthur describe it a though it have be a whist party i suppose because a lady be present. 
of course you be the lady. i wish i d see you say una. 
i wish you have child. i have such a triumph after dinner. rene and doctor break come in. they have quite make up their quarrel and they tell me they have the high esteem for each other and i laugh and say i hear every word of it up in the tree. you never saw two men so frighten in your life and when i say what be the subject of your remark rene. neither of them know where to look. oh i quiz them unmercifully. they d see me jump off the pigsty roof remember. 
but what be the subject of their remark. say una. 
oh doctor break say it be a professional matter so the laugh be turn on me. i be horribly afraid it might have be something unladylike and indelicate. but that wasn t my triumph. dad ask me to play on the harp. between just you and me child i have be practise a new song from london i don t always live in tree for week. and i give it them for a surprise. 
what be it. say una. sing it. 
i have give my heart to a flower. not very difficult finger but r r ravish sentiment. 
philadelphia cough and clear her throat. 
i ve a deep voice for my age and size she explain. contralto you know but it ought to be strong and she begin her face all dark against the last of the soft pink sunset. 
i have give my heart to a flower though i know it be fade away though i know it will live but an hour and leave me to mourn it decay. 
isn t that touchingly sweet. then the last verse i wish i have my harp dear go a low a my register will reach. she draw in her chin and take a deep breath. 
ye desolate whirlwind that rave i charge you be good to my dear. she be all she be all that i have and the time of our part be near. 
beautiful. say una. and do they like it. like it. they be overwhelm accables a rene say. my dear if i hadn t see it i shouldn t have believe that i could have draw tear genuine tear to the eye of four grow men. but i do. rene simply couldn t endure it. he s all french sensibility. he hide his face and say assez mademoiselle. c est plus fort que moi. assez. and sir arthur blow his nose and say good ged. this be bad than assaye. while dad sit with the tear simply run down his cheek. 
and what do doctor break do. 
he get up and pretend to look out of the window but i saw his little fat shoulder jerk a if he have the hiccough. that be a triumph. i never suspect him of sensibility. 
oh i wish i d see. i wish i d be you say una clasp her hand. puck rustle and rise from the fern just a a big blunder cock chafer fly smack against una s cheek. 
when she have finish rub the place mr vincey call to her that pansy have be fractious or she would have come long before to help her strain and pour off. it didn t matter say una. i just wait. be that old pansy barge about the low pasture now. 
no say mr vincey listen. it sound more like a horse be gallop middlin quick through the wood. but there s no road there. i reckon it s one of gleason s colt loose. shall i see you up to the house miss una. 
gracious no. thank you. what s go to hurt me. say una and she put her stool away behind the oak and stroll home through the gap that old hobden keep open for her. 
brookland road. 
i be very well please with what i know i reckon myself no fool till i meet with a maid on the brookland road that turn me back to school. 
low down low down. where the liddle green lantern shine oh. maid i ve do with ee all but one and she can never be mine. twas right in the middest of a hot june night with thunder duntin round and i seed her face by the fairy light that beat from off the grind. 
she only smile and she never speak she smile and go away. but when she d go my heart be break and my wit be clean astray. 
oh. stop your ring and let me be let be o brookland bell. you ll ring old goodman * out of the sea before i wed one else. 
old goodman s farm be rank sea sand and be this thousand year. but it shall turn to rich plough land before i change my dear. 
oh. fairfield church be water bind from autumn to the spring. but it shall turn to high hill grind before my bell do ring. 
oh. leave me walk on the brookland road in the thunder and warm rain oh. leave me look where my love go and p rap i ll see her again. low down low down. where the liddle green lantern shine oh. maid i ve do with ee all but one and she can never be mine. 
*earl godwin of the goodwin sand. 
the knife and the naked chalk. 
the run of the down. 
the weald be good the down be best i ll give you the run of em east to west. beachy head and winddoor hill they be once and they be still. firle mount caburn and mount harry go back a far a sum ll carry. ditchling beacon and chanctonbury ring they have look on many a thing. and what those two have miss between em i reckon truleigh hill ha see em. highden bignor and duncton down know old england before the crown. linch down treyford and sunwood know old england before the flood. and when you end on the hampshire side butser s old a time and tide. the down be sheep the weald be corn you be glad you be sussex bear. 
the knife and the naked chalk. 
the child go to the seaside for a month and live in a flint village on the bare windy chalk down quite thirty mile away from home. they make friend with an old shepherd call mr dudeney who have know their father when their father be little. he do not talk like their own people in the weald of sussex and he use different name for farm thing but he understand how they felt and let them go with him. he have a tiny cottage about half a mile from the village where his wife make mead from thyme honey and nurse sick lamb in front of a coal fire while old jim who be mr dudeney s sheep dog s father lay at the door. they bring up beef bone for old jim. you must never give a sheep dog mutton bone. and if mr dudeney happen to be far in the down mr dudeney would tell the dog to take them to him and he do. 
one august afternoon when the village water cart have make the street smell specially townified they go to look for their shepherd a usual and a usual old jim crawl over the doorstep and take them in charge. the sun be hot the dry grass be very slippery and the distance be very distant. 
it s just like the sea say una when old jim halt in the shade of a lonely flint barn on a bare rise. you see where you re go and you go there and there s nothing between. 
dan slip off his shoe. when we get home i shall sit in the wood all day he say. 
whuff. say old jim to show he be ready and strike across a long roll stretch of turf. presently he ask for his beefbone. 
not yet say dan. where s mr dudeney. where s master. old jim look a if he think they be mad and ask again. 
don t you give it him una cry. i m not go to be leave howl in a desert. 
show boy. show. say dan for the down seem a bare a the palm of your hand. 
old jim sigh and trot forward. soon they spy the blob of mr dudeney s hat against the sky a long way off. 
right. all right. say dan. old jim wheel round take his bone carefully between his blunt teeth and return to the shadow of the old barn look just like a wolf. the child go on. two kestrel hang bivvering and squeal above them. a gull flap lazily along the white edge of the cliff. the curve of the down shake a little in the heat and so do mr dudeney s distant head. 
they walk toward it very slowly and find themselves star into a horseshoe shape hollow a hundred foot deep whose steep side be lace with tangle sheep track. the flock graze on the flat at the bottom under charge of young jim. mr dudeney sit comfortably knit on the edge of the slope his crook between his knee. they tell him what old jim have do. 
ah he think you could see my head a soon a he do. the closeter you be to the turf the more you see thing. you look warm like say mr dudeney. 
we be say una flop down. and tire. 
set beside o me here. the shadow ll begin to stretch out in a little while and a heat shake o wind will come up with it that ll overlay your eye like so much wool. 
we don t want to sleep say una indignantly. but she settle herself a she speak in the first strip of early afternoon shade. 
o course not. you come to talk with me same a your father use. he didn t need no dog to guide him to norton pit. 
well he belong here say dan and lay himself down at length on the turf. 
he do. and what beat me be why he go off to live among them messy tree in the weald when he might ha stay here and look all about him. there s no profit to tree. they draw the lightning and sheep shelter under em and so like a not you ll lose a half score ewe strike dead in one storm. tck. your father know that. 
tree aren t messy. una rise on her elbow. and what about firewood. i don t like coal. 
eh. you lie a piece more uphill and you ll lie more natural say mr dudeney with his provoke deaf smile. now press your face down and smell to the turf. that s southdown thyme which make our southdown mutton beyond compare and my mother tell me twill cure anything except break neck or heart. i forget which. 
they sniff and somehow forget to lift their cheek from the soft thymy cushion. 
you don t get nothing like that in the weald. watercress maybe. say mr dudeney. 
but we ve water brook full of it where you paddle in hot weather una reply watch a yellow and violet band snail shell close to her eye. 
brook flood. then you must shift your sheep let alone foot rot afterward. i put more dependence on a dew pond any day. 
how s a dew pond make. say dan and tilt his hat over his eye. mr dudeney explain. 
the air tremble a little a though it could not make up it mind whether to slide into the pit or move across the open. but it seem easy to go downhill and the child felt one soft puff after another slip and sidle down the slope in fragrant breath that baffed on their eyelid. the little whisper of the sea by the cliff join with the whisper of the wind over the grass the hum of insect in the thyme the ruffle and rustle of the flock below and a thickish mutter deep in the very chalk beneath them. mr dudeney stop explain and go on with his knit. they be rouse by voice. the shadow have creep halfway down the steep side of norton pit and on the edge of it his back to them puck sit beside a half naked man who seem busy at some work. the wind have drop and in that funnel of grind every least noise and movement reach them like whisper up a water pipe. 
that be clever say puck lean over. how truly you shape it. 
yes but what doe the beast care for a brittle flint tip. bah. the man flick something contemptuously over his shoulder. it fell between dan and una a beautiful dark blue flint arrow head still hot from the maker s hand. 
the man reach for another stone and work away like a thrush with a snail shell. 
flint work be fool s work he say at last. one doe it because one always do it. but when it come to deal with the beast no good. he shake his shaggy head. the beast be deal with long ago. he ha go say puck. 
he ll be back at lamb time. i know him. he chip very carefully and the flint squeak. 
not he. child can lie out on the chalk now all day through and go home safe. 
can they. well call the beast by his true name and i ll believe it the man reply. surely. puck leap to his foot curve his hand round his mouth and shout. wolf. wolf. 
norton pit throw back the echo from it dry side wuff. wuff. like young jim s bark. 
you see. you hear. say puck. nobody answer. grey shepherd be go. foot in the night ha run off. there be no more wolf. 
wonderful. the man wipe his forehead a though he be hot. who drive him away. you. 
many men through many year each work in his own country. be you one of them. puck answer. 
the man slide his sheepskin cloak to his waist and without a word point to his side which be all seam and blotch with scar. his arm too be dimple from shoulder to elbow with horrible white dimple. 
i see say puck. it be the beast s mark. what do you use against him. hand hammer and spear a our father do before u. 
so. then how puck twitch aside the man s dark brown cloak how do a flint worker come by that. show man show. he hold out his little hand. 
the man slip a long dark iron knife almost a short sword from his belt and after breathe on it hand it hilt first to puck who take it with his head on one side a you should when you look at the work of a watch squint down the dark blade and very delicately rub his forefinger from the point to the hilt. 
good. say he in a surprise tone. 
it should be. the child of the night make it the man answer. 
so i see by the iron. what might it have cost you. 
this. the man raise his hand to his cheek. puck whistle like a weald starling. 
by the great ring of the chalk. he cry. be that your price. turn sunward that i may see good and shut your eye. he slip his hand beneath the man s chin and swing him till he face the child up the slope. they saw that his right eye be go and the eyelid lay shrink. quickly puck turn him round again and the two sit down. 
it be for the sheep. the sheep be the people say the man in an ashamed voice. what else could i have do. you know old one. 
puck sigh a little flutter sigh. take the knife. i listen. the man bow his head drive the knife into the turf and while it still quiver say. this be witness between u that i speak the thing that ha be. before my knife and the naked chalk i speak. touch. 
puck lay a hand on the hilt. it stop shake. the child wriggle a little near. 
i be of the people of the work flint. i be the one son of the priestess who sell the wind to the men of the sea. i be the buyer of the knife the keeper of the people the man begin in a sort of sing shout. these be my name in this country of the naked chalk between the tree and the sea. 
yours be a great country. your name be great too say puck. 
one cannot fee some thing on name and song. the man hit himself on the chest. it be good always good to count one s child safe round the fire their mother among them. 
ahai. say puck. i think this will be a very old tale. i warm myself and eat at any fire that i choose but there be no one to light me a fire or cook my meat. i sell all that when i buy the magic knife for my people. it be not right that the beast should master man. what else could i have do. 
i hear. i know. i listen say puck. 
when i be old enough to take my place in the sheepguard the beast gnaw all our country like a bone between his teeth. he come in behind the flock at water time and watch them round the dew pond. he leap into the fold between our knee at the shear. he walk out alongside the graze flock and choose his meat on the hoof while our boy throw flint at him. he creep by night into the hut and lick the babe from between the mother s hand. he call his companion and pull down men in broad daylight on the naked chalk. no not always do he do so. this be his cunning. he would go away for a while to let u forget him. a year two year perhaps we neither smelt nor hear nor saw him. when our flock have increase. when our men do not always look behind them. when child stray from the fence place. when our woman walk alone to draw water back back back come the curse of the chalk grey shepherd foot in the night the beast the beast the beast. 
he laugh at our little brittle arrow and our poor blunt spear. he learn to run in under the stroke of the hammer. i think he know when there be a flaw in the flint. often it doe not show till you bring it down on his snout. then pouf. the false flint fall all to flinders and you be leave with the hammer handle in your fist and his teeth in your flank. i have felt them. at even too in the dew or when it ha mist and rain your spear head lashing slack off though you have keep them beneath your cloak all day. you be alone but so close to the home pond that you stop to tighten the sinew with hand teeth and a piece of driftwood. you bend over and pull so. that be the minute for which he ha follow you since the star go out. aarh. he wurr aarh. he say. norton pit give back the growl like a pack of real wolf. then he be on your right shoulder feel for the vein in your neck and perhaps your sheep run on without you. to fight the beast be nothing but to be despise by the beast when he fight you that be like his teeth in the heart. old one why be it that men desire so greatly and can do so little. 
i do not know. do you desire so much. say puck. 
i desire to master the beast. it be not right that the beast should master man. but my people be afraid. even my mother the priestess be afraid when i tell her what i desire. we be accustom to be afraid of the beast. when i be make a man and a maiden she be a priestess wait for me at the dew pond the beast flit from off the chalk. perhaps it be a sickness. perhaps he have go to his god to learn how to do u new harm. but he go and we breathe more freely. the woman sing again. the child be not so much guard. our flock graze far out. i take mine yonder he point inland to the hazy line of the weald where the new grass be best. they graze north. i follow till we be close to the tree he lower his voice close there where the child of the night live. he point north again. 
ah now i remember a thing say puck. tell me why do your people fear the tree so extremely. 
because the god hate the tree and strike them with lightning. we can see them burn for day all along the chalk s edge. besides all the chalk know that the child of the night though they worship our god be magician. when a man go into their country they change his spirit. they put word into his mouth. they make him like talk water. but a voice in my heart tell me to go toward the north. while i watch my sheep there i saw three beast chase a man who run toward the tree. by this i know he be a child of the night. we flint worker fear the tree more than we fear the beast. he have no hammer. he carry a knife like this one. a beast leap at him. he stretch out his knife. the beast fell dead. the other beast run away howl which they would never have do from a flint worker. the man go in among the tree. i look for the dead beast. he have be kill in a new way by a single deep clean cut without bruise or tear which have split his bad heart. wonderful. so i saw that the man s knife be magic and i think how to get it think strongly how to get it. 
when i bring the flock to the shear my mother the priestess ask me what be the new thing which you have see and i see in your face. i say it be a sorrow to me. and she answer all new thing be sorrow. sit in my place and eat sorrow. i sit down in her place by the fire where she talk to the ghost in winter and two voice speak in my heart. one voice say ask the child of the night for the magic knife. it be not fit that the beast should master man. i listen to that voice. 
one voice say if you go among the tree the child of the night will change your spirit. eat and sleep here. the other voice say ask for the knife. i listen to that voice. 
i say to my mother in the morning i go away to find a thing for the people but i do not know whether i shall return in my own shape. she answer whether you live or die or be make different i be your mother. 
true say puck. the old one themselves cannot change men s mother even if they would. 
let u thank the old one. i speak to my maiden the priestess who wait for me at the dew pond. she promise fine thing too. the man laugh. i go away to that place where i have see the magician with the knife. i lay out two day on the short grass before i venture among the tree. i felt my way before me with a stick. i be afraid of the terrible talk tree. i be afraid of the ghost in the branch. of the soft grind underfoot. of the red and black water. i be afraid above all of the change. it come. 
they saw him wipe his forehead once again and his strong back muscle quiver till he lay his hand on the knife hilt. 
a fire without a flame burn in my head. an evil taste grow in my mouth. my eyelid shut hot over my eye. my breath be hot between my teeth and my hand be like the hand of a strange. i be make to sing song and to mock the tree though i be afraid of them. at the same time i saw myself laugh and i be very sad for this fine young man who be myself. ah. the child of the night know magic. 
i think that be do by the spirit of the mist. they change a man if he sleep among them say puck. have you sleep in any mist. 
yes but i know it be the child of the night. after three day i saw a red light behind the tree and i hear a heavy noise. i saw the child of the night dig red stone from a hole and lay them in fire. the stone melt like tallow and the men beat the soft stuff with hammer. i wish to speak to these men but the word be change in my mouth and all i could say be do not make that noise. it hurt my head. by this i know that i be bewitch and i cling to the tree and pray the child of the night to take off their spell. they be cruel. they ask me many question which they would never allow me to answer. they change my word between my teeth till i weep. then they lead me into a hut and cover the floor with hot stone and dash water on the stone and sing charm till the sweat pour off me like water. i sleep. when i wake my own spirit not the strange shout thing be back in my body and i be like a cool bright stone on the shingle between the sea and the sunshine. the magician come to hear me woman and men each wear a magic knife. their priestess be their ear and their mouth. 
i speak. i speak many word that go smoothly along like sheep in order when their shepherd stand on a mound can count those come and those far off get ready to come. i ask for magic knife for my people. i say that my people would bring meat and milk and wool and lay them in the short grass outside the tree if the child of the night would leave magic knife for our people to take away. they be please. their priestess say for whose sake have you come. i answer the sheep be the people. if the beast kill our sheep our people die. so i come for a magic knife to kill the beast. 
she say we do not know if our god will let u trade with the people of the naked chalk. wait till we have ask. 
when they come back from the question place. their god be our god. their priestess say the god need a proof that your word be true. i say what be the proof. she say the god say that if you have come for the sake of your people you will give him your right eye to be put out. but if you have come for any other reason you will not give it. this proof be between you and the god. we ourselves be sorry. 
i say this be a hard proof. be there no other road. 
she say yes. you can go back to your people with your two eye in your head if you choose. but then you will not get any magic knife for your people. 
i say it would be easy if i know that i be to be kill. 
she say perhaps the god know this too. see. i have make my knife hot. 
i say be quick then. with her knife heat in the flame she put out my right eye. she herself do it. i be the son of a priestess. she be a priestess. it be not work for any common man. 
true. most true say puck. no common man s work that. and afterwards. 
afterwards i do not see out of that eye any more. i find also that a one eye doe not tell you truly where thing be. try it. 
at this dan put his hand over one eye and reach for the flint arrow head on the grass. he miss it by inch. it s true he whisper to una. you can t judge distance a bite with only one eye. 
puck be evidently make the same experiment for the man laugh at him. 
i know it be so say he. even now i be not always sure of my blow. i stay with the child of the night till my eye heal. they say i be the son of tyr the god who put his right hand in a beast s mouth. they show me how they melt their red stone and make the magic knife of it. they tell me the charm they sing over the fire and at the beating. i can sing many charm. then he begin to laugh like a boy. 
i be think of my journey home he say and of the surprise beast. he have come back to the chalk. i saw him i smelt his lair a soon a ever i leave the tree. he do not know i have the magic knife i hide it under my cloak the knife that the priestess give me. ho. ho. that happy day be too short. see. a beast would wind me. wow. he would say. here be my flint worker. he would come leap tail in air. he would roll. he would lay his head between his paw out of merriness of heart at his warm wait meal. he would leap and oh his eye in mid leap when he saw when he saw the knife hold ready for him. it pierce his hide a a rush pierce curdle milk. often he have no time to howl. i do not trouble to flay any beast i kill. sometimes i miss my blow. then i take my little flint hammer and beat out his brain a he cower. he make no fight. he know the knife. but the beast be very cunning. before even all the beast have smelt the blood on my knife and be run from me like hare. they know. then i walk a a man should the master of the beast. 
so come i back to my mother s house. there be a lamb to be kill. i cut it in two half with my knife and i tell her all my tale. she say this be the work of a god. i kiss her and laugh. i go to my maiden who wait for me at the dew pond. there be a lamb to be kill. i cut it in two half with my knife and tell her all my tale. she say it be the work of a god. i laugh but she push me away and be on my blind side run off before i could kiss her. i go to the men of the sheepguard at water time. there be a sheep to be kill for their meat. i cut it in two half with my knife and tell them all my tale. they say it be the work of a god. i say we talk too much about god. let u eat and be happy and tomorrow i will take you to the child of the night and each man will find a magic knife. 
i be glad to smell our sheep again. to see the broad sky from edge to edge and to hear the sea. i sleep beneath the star in my cloak. the men talk among themselves. 
i lead them the next day to the tree take with me meat wool and curdle milk a i have promise. we find the magic knife lay out on the grass a the child of the night have promise. they watch u from among the tree. their priestess call to me and say how be it with your people. i say their heart be change. i cannot see their heart a i use to. she say that be because you have only one eye. come to me and i will be both your eye. but i say i must show my people how to use their knife against the beast a you show me how to use my knife. i say this because the magic knife doe not balance like the flint. she say what you have do you have do for the sake of a woman and not for the sake of your people. i ask of her then why do the god accept my right eye and why be you so angry. she answer because any man can lie to a god but no man can lie to a woman. and i be not angry with you. i be only very sorrowful for you. wait a little and you will see out of your one eye why i be sorry. so she hide herself. 
i go back with my people each one carry his knife and make it sing in the air tssee sssse. the flint never sing. it mutter ump ump. the beast hear. the beast saw. he know. everywhere he run away from u. we all laugh. a we walk over the grass my mother s brother the chief on the men s side he take off his chief s necklace of yellow sea stone. 
how. eh. oh i remember. amber say puck. 
and would have put them on my neck. i say no i be content. what doe my one eye matter if my other eye see fat sheep and fat child run about safely. my mother s brother say to them i tell you he would never take such thing. then they begin to sing a song in the old tongue the song of tyr. i sing with them but my mother s brother say this be your song o buyer of the knife. let u sing it tyr. 
even then i do not understand till i saw that that no man step on my shadow. and i know that they think me to be a god like the god tyr who give his right hand to conquer a great beast. 
by the fire in the belly of the flint be that so. puck rap out. 
by my knife and the naked chalk so it be. they make way for my shadow a though it have be a priestess walk to the barrow of the dead. i be afraid. i say to myself my mother and my maiden will know i be not tyr. but still i be afraid with the fear of a man who fall into a steep flint pit while he run and feel that it will be hard to climb out. 
when we come to the dew pond all our people be there. the men show their knife and tell their tale. the sheep guard also have see the beast fly from u. the beast go west across the river in pack howl. he know the knife have come to the naked chalk at last at last. he know. so my work be do. i look for my maiden among the priestess. she look at me but she do not smile. she make the sign to me that our priestess must make when they sacrifice to the old dead in the barrow. i would have speak but my mother s brother make himself my mouth a though i have be one of the old dead in the barrow for whom our priest speak to the people on midsummer morning. 
i remember. well i remember those midsummer morning. say puck. 
then i go away angrily to my mother s house. she would have kneel before me. then i be more angry but she say only a god would have speak to me thus a priestess. a man would have fear the punishment of the god. i look at her and i laugh. i could not stop my unhappy laugh. they call me from the door by the name of tyr himself. a young man with whom i have watch my first flock and chip my first arrow and fight my first beast call me by that name in the old tongue. he ask my leave to take my maiden. his eye be lower his hand be on his forehead. he be full of the fear of a god but of me a man he have no fear when he ask. i do not kill him. i say call the maiden. she come also without fear this very one that have wait for me that have talk with me by our dew pond. be a priestess she lift her eye to me. a i look on a hill or a cloud so she look at me. she speak in the old tongue which priestess use when they make prayer to the old dead in the barrow. she ask leave that she might light the fire in my companion s house and that i should bless their child. i do not kill her. i hear my own voice little and cold say let it be a you desire and they go away hand in hand. my heart grow little and cold. a wind shout in my ear. my eye darken. i say to my mother can a god die. i hear her say what be it. what be it my son. and i fell into darkness full of hammer noise. i be not. 
oh poor poor god. say puck. and your wise mother. 
she know. a soon a i drop she know. when my spirit come back i hear her whisper in my ear whether you live or die or be make different i be your mother. that be good good even than the water she give me and the go away of the sickness. though i be ashamed to have fall down yet i be very glad. she be glad too. neither of u wish to lose the other. there be only the one mother for the one son. i heap the fire for her and bar the door and sit at her foot a before i go away and she comb my hair and sing. 
i say at last what be to be do to the people who say that i be tyr. 
she say he who ha do a god like thing must bear himself like a god. i see no way out of it. the people be now your sheep till you die. you cannot drive them off. 
i say this be a heavy sheep than i can lift. she say in time it will grow easy. in time perhaps you will not lay it down for any maiden anywhere. be wise be very wise my son for nothing be leave you except the word and the song and the worship of a god. 
oh poor god. say puck. but those be not altogether bad thing. 
i know they be not. but i would sell them all all all for one small child of my own smear himself with the ash of our own house fire. 
he wrench his knife from the turf thrust it into his belt and stand up. 
and yet what else could i have do. he say. the sheep be the people. 
it be a very old tale puck answer. i have hear the like of it not only on the naked chalk but also among the tree under oak and ash and thorn. 
the afternoon shadow fill all the quiet emptiness of norton pit. the child hear the sheep bell and young jim s busy bark above them and they scramble up the slope to the level. 
we let you have your sleep out say mr dudeney a the flock scatter before them. it s make for tea time now. 
look what i ve find say dan and hold up a little blue flint arrow head a fresh a though it have be chip that very day. 
oh say mr dudeney the closeter you be to the turf the more you re apt to see thing. i ve find em often. some say the fairy make em but i say they be make by folk like ourselves only a goodish time back. they re lucky to keep. now you couldn t ever have sleep not to any profit among your father s tree same a you ve lay out on naked chalk could you. 
one doesn t want to sleep in the wood say una. 
then what s the good of em. say mr dudeney. might a well set in the barn all day. fetch em long jim boy. 
the down that look so bare and hot when they come be full of delicious little shadow dimple. the smell of the thyme and the salt mix together on the south west drift from the still sea. their eye dazzle with the low sun and the long grass under it look golden. the sheep know where their fold be so young jim come back to his master and they all four stroll home the scabious head swish about their ankle and their shadow streak behind them like the shadow of giant. 
song of the men s side. 
once we fear the beast when he follow u we run run very fast though we know it be not right that the beast should master man. but what could we flint worker do. the beast only grin at our spear round his ear grin at the hammer that we make. but now we will hunt him for the life with the knife and this be the buyer of the blade. 
room for his shadow on the grass let it pas. to leave and right stand clear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
tyr think hard till he hammer out a plan for he know it be not right. and it be not right. that the beast should master man. so he go to the child of the night. he beg a magic knife of their make for our sake. when he beg for the knife they say. the price of the knife you would buy be an eye. and that be the price he pay. 
tell it to the barrow of the dead run ahead. shout it so the woman s side can hear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
our woman and our little one may walk on the chalk a far a we can see them and beyond. we shall not be anxious for our sheep when we keep tally at the shear pond. 
we can eat with both our elbow on our knee if we please we can sleep after meal in the sun. for shepherd of the twilight be dismay at the blade foot in the night have run. dog without a master go away. hai tyr aie. devil in the dusk ha run. 
then. room for his shadow on the grass let it pas. to leave and right stand clear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
brother square toe. 
philadelphia. 
if you re off to philadelphia in the morning you mustn t take my story for a guide. there s little leave indeed of the city you will read of and all the folk i write about have die. now few will understand if you mention talleyrand or remember what his cunning and his skill do. and the cabman at the wharf do not know count zinnendorf nor the church in philadelphia he build. 
it be go go go with lose atlantis. never say i didn t give you warn. in seventeen ninety three twas there for all to see but it s not in philadelphia this morning. 
if you re off to philadelphia in the morning you mustn t go by everything i ve say. bob bicknell s southern stage have be lay aside for age but the limit will take you there instead. toby hirte can t be see at one hundred and eighteen north second street no matter when you call. and i fear you ll search in vain for the wash house down the lane where pharaoh play the fiddle at the ball. 
it be go go go with thebe the golden. never say i didn t give you warn. in seventeen ninety four twas a famous dance floor but it s not in philadelphia this morning. 
if you re off to philadelphia in the morning you must telegraph for room at some hotel. you needn t try your luck at epply s or the buck though the father of his country like them well. it be not the slight use to inquire for adam goo or to ask where pastor meder ha remove so you must treat a out of date the story i relate of the church in philadelphia he love so. 
he be go go go with martin luther. never say i didn t give you warn. in seventeen ninety five he be. rest his soul. alive but he s not in philadelphia this morning. if you re off to philadelphia this morning and wish to prove the truth of what i say i pledge my word you ll find the pleasant land behind unaltered since red jacket ride that way. still the pine wood scent the noon. still the cat bird sing his tune. still autumn set the maple forest blaze. still the grape vine through the dusk fling her soul compel musk. still the fire fly in the corn make night amaze. they be there there there with earth immortal. citizen i give you friendly warn. the thing that truly last when men and time have pass they be all in pennsylvania this morning. 
brother square toe. 
it be almost the end of their visit to the seaside. they have turn themselves out of door while their trunk be be pack and stroll over the down towards the dull even sea. the tide be dead low under the chalk cliff and the little wrinkle wave grieve along the sand up the coast to newhaven and down the coast to long grey brighton whose smoke trail out across the channel. 
they walk to the gap where the cliff be only a few foot high. a windlass for hoist shingle from the beach below stand at the edge of it. the coastguard cottage be a little farther on and an old ship s figurehead of a turk in a turban star at them over the wall. this time tomorrow we shall be at home thank goodness say una. i hate the sea. 
i believe it s all right in the middle say dan. the edge be the sorrowful part. 
cordery the coastguard come out of the cottage level his telescope at some fish boat shut it with a click and walk away. he grow small and small along the edge of the cliff where neat pile of white chalk every few yard show the path even on the dark night. where s cordery go. say una. 
half way to newhaven say dan. then he ll meet the newhaven coastguard and turn back. he say if coastguard be do away with smuggle would start up at once. 
a voice on the beach under the cliff begin to sing. 
the moon she shin on telscombe tye on telscombe tye at night it be she saw the smuggler rid by a very pretty sight it be. 
foot scrabble on the flinty path. a dark thin face man in very neat brown clothe and broad toe shoe come up follow by puck. 
three dunkirk boat be standin in. 
the man go on. hssh. say puck. you ll shock these nice young people. 
oh. shall i. mille pardon. he shrug his shoulder almost up to his ear spread his hand abroad and jabber in french. no comprenny. he say. i ll give it you in low german. and he go off in another language change his voice and manner so completely that they hardly know him for the same person. but his dark beady brown eye still twinkle merrily in his lean face and the child felt that they do not suit the straight plain snuffy brown coat brown knee breech and broad brim hat. his hair be tie in a short pigtail which dance wickedly when he turn his head. 
ha do. say puck laugh. be one thing or t other pharaoh french or english or german no great odds which. 
oh but it be though say una quickly. we haven t begin german yet and and we re go back to our french next week. 
aren t you english. say dan. we hear you sing just now. 
aha. that be the sussex side o me. dad he marry a french girl out o boulogne and french she stay till her dyin day. she be an aurette of course. we lee mostly marry aurettes. haven t you ever come across the say. 
aurettes and lee like a two pea. what they can t smuggle they ll run over sea. 
then be you a smuggler. una cry. and have you smuggle much. say dan. 
mr lee nod solemnly. 
mind you say he i don t uphold smuggle for the generality o mankind mostly they can t make a do of it but i be bring up to the trade d ye see in a lawful line o descent on he wave across the channel on both side the water. twas all in the family same a fiddle. the aurettes use mostly to run the stuff across from boulogne and we lee land it here and run it up to london town by the safe road. 
then where do you live. say una. 
you mustn t ever live too close to your business in our trade. we keep our little fish smack at shoreham but otherwise we lee be all honest cottager folk at warminghurst under washington bramber way on the old penn estate. 
ah. say puck squat by the windlass. i remember a piece about the lee at warminghurst i do. 
there be never a lee to warminghurst that wasn t a gipsy last and first. 
i reckon that s truth pharaoh. 
pharaoh laugh. admettin that s true he say my gipsy blood must be wear pretty thin for i ve make and keep a worldly fortune. 
by smuggle. dan ask. no in the tobacco trade. 
you don t mean to say you give up smuggle just to go and be a tobacconist. dan look so disappoint they all have to laugh. 
i m sorry. but there s all sort of tobacconist pharaoh reply. how far out now would you call that smack with the patch on her foresail. he point to the fish boat. 
a scant mile say puck after a quick look. 
just about. it s seven fathom under her clean sand. that be where uncle aurette use to sink his brandy keg from boulogne and we fish em up and row em into the gap here for the pony to run inland. one thickish night in january of ninety three dad and uncle lot and me come over from shoreham in the smack and we find uncle aurette and the l estrange my cousin wait for u in their lugger with new year s present from mother s folk in boulogne. i remember aunt cecile she d send me a fine new red knit cap which i put on then and there for the french be have their revolution in those day and red cap be all the fashion. uncle aurette tell u that they have cut off their king louis head and moreover the brest fort have fire on an english man o war. the news wasn t a week old. 
that mean war again when we be only just get use to the peace say dad. why can t king george s men and king louis men do on their uniform and fight it out over our head. 
me too i wish that say uncle aurette. but they ll be press good men than themselves to fight for em. the press gang be out already on our side. you look out for yours. 
i ll have to bide ashore and grow cabbage for a while after i ve run this cargo. but i do wish dad say go over the lugger s side with our new year present under his arm and young l estrange hold the lantern i just do wish that those folk which make war so easy have to run one cargo a month all this winter. it ud show em what honest work mean. 
well i ve warn ye say uncle aurette. i ll be slip off now before your revenue cutter come. give my love to sister and take care o the keg. it s thicking to southward. i remember him wave to u and young stephen l estrange blow out the lantern. by the time we d fish up the keg the fog come down so thick dad judge it risky for me to row em ashore even though we could hear the pony stamp on the beach. so he and uncle lot take the dinghy and leave me in the smack play on my fiddle to guide em back. 
presently i hear gun. two of em sound mighty like uncle aurette s three pounder. he didn t go naked about the sea after dark. then come more which i reckon be captain giddens in the revenue cutter. he be open hand with his compliment but he would lay his gun himself. i stop fiddle to listen and i hear a whole skyful o french up in the fog and a high bow come down on top o the smack. i hadn t time to call or think. i remember the smack heel over and me stand on the gunwale push against the ship s side a if i hop to bear her off. then the square of an open port with a lantern in it slide by in front of my nose. i kick back on our gunwale a it go under and slip through that port into the french ship me and my fiddle. 
gracious. say una. what an adventure. 
didn t anybody see you come in. say dan. 
there wasn t any one there. i d make use of an orlop deck port that s the next deck below the gun deck which by right should not have be open at all. the crew be stand by their gun up above. i roll on to a pile of dunnage in the dark and i go to sleep. when i wake men be talk all round me tell each other their name and sorrow just like dad tell me press men use to talk in the last war. pretty soon i make out they d all be heave aboard together by the press gang and leave to sort emselves. the ship she be the embuscade a thirty six gun republican frigate captain jean baptiste bompard two day out of le havre go to the unite state with a republican french ambassador of the name of genet. they have be up all night clear for action on account of hear gun in the fog. uncle aurette and captain giddens must have be pass the time o day with each other off newhaven and the frigate have drift past em. she never know she d run down our smack. see so many aboard be total stranger to each other i think one more mightn t be notice. so i put aunt cecile s red cap on the back of my head and my hand in my pocket like the rest and a we french say i circulate till i find the galley. 
what. here s one of em that isn t sick. say a cook. take his breakfast to citizen bompard. 
i carry the tray to the cabin but i didn t call this bompard citizen. oh no. mon capitaine be my little word same a uncle aurette use to answer in king louis navy. bompard he like it. he take me on for cabin servant and after that no one ask question. and thus i get good victual and light work all the way across to america. he talk a heap of politics and so do his officer and when this ambassador genet get rid of his land stomach and lay down the law after dinner a rook parliament be nothing compare to their cabin. i learn to know most of the men which have work the french revolution through wait at table and hear talk about em. one of our forecas le six pounder be call danton and t other marat. i use to play the fiddle between em sit on the capstan. day in and day out bompard and monsieur genet talk o what france have do and how the unite state be go to join her to finish off the english in this war. monsieur genet say he d justabout make the unite state fight for france. he be a rude common man. but i like listen. i always help drink any health that be propose specially citizen danton s who d cut off king louis head. an all englishman might have be shock but that s where my french blood save me. 
it didn t save me from get a dose of ship s fever though the week before we put monsieur genet ashore at charleston. and what be leave of me after bleed and pill take the dumb horror from live tween deck. the surgeon karaguen his name be keep me down there to help him with his plaster i be too weak to wait on bompard. i don t remember much of any account for the next few week till i smell lilac and i look out of the port and we be moor to a wharf edge and there be a town o fine garden and red brick house and all the green leaf o god s world wait for me outside. 
what s this. i say to the sick bay man old pierre tiphaigne he be. philadelphia say pierre. you ve miss it all. we re sail next week. 
i just turn round and cry for long to be amongst the laylocks. 
if that s your trouble say old pierre you go straight ashore. none ll hind you. they re all go mad on these coast french and american together. tisn t my notion o war. pierre be an old king louis man. 
my leg be pretty tottly but i make shift to go on deck which it be like a fair. the frigate be crowd with fine gentleman and lady pour in and out. they sing and they wave french flag while captain bompard and his officer yes and some of the men speechify to all and sundry about war with england. they shout down with england. down with washington. hurrah for france and the republic. i couldn t make sense of it. i want to get out from that crunch of sword and petticoat and sit in a field. one of the gentleman say to me be that a genuine cap o liberty you re wear. twas aunt cecile s red one and pretty near wear out. oh yes. i say straight from france. i ll give you a shill for it he say and with that money in my hand and my fiddle under my arm i squeeze past the entry port and go ashore. it be like a dream meadow tree flower bird house and people all different. i sit me down in a meadow and fiddle a bite and then i go in and out the street look and smell and touch like a little dog at a fair. fine folk be set on the white stone doorstep of their house and a girl throw me a handful of laylock spray and when i say merci without think she say she love the french. they all be the fashion in the city. i saw more tricolour flag in philadelphia than ever i d see in boulogne and every one be shout for war with england. a crowd o folk be cheer after our french ambassador that same monsieur genet which we d leave at charleston. he be a horseback behave a if the place belong to him and command all and sundry to fight the british. but i d hear that before. i get into a long straight street a wide a the broyle where gentleman be race horse. i m fond o horse. nobody hinder em and a man tell me it be call race street o purpose for that. then i follow some black nigger which i d never see close before. but i leave them to run after a great proud copper face man with feather in his hair and a red blanket trail behind him. a man tell me he be a real red indian call red jacket and i follow him into an alley way off race street by second street where there be a fiddle play. i m fond o fiddle. the indian stop at a baker s shop conrad gerhard s it be and buy some sugary cake. hear what the price be i be go to have some too but the indian ask me in english if i be hungry. oh yes. i say. i must have look a sore scrattel. he open a door on to a staircase and lead the way up. we walk into a dirty little room full of flute and fiddle and a fat man fiddle by the window in a smell of cheese and medicine fit to knock you down. i be knock down too for the fat man jump up and hit me a smack in the face. i fell against an old spinet cover with pill box and the pill roll about the floor. the indian never move an eyelid. 
pick up the pill. pick up the pill. the fat man screech. 
i start pick em up hundred of em mean to run out under the indian s arm but i come on giddy all over and i sit down. the fat man go back to his fiddle. 
toby. say the indian after quite a while. i bring the boy to be feed not hit. 
what. say toby i think it be gert schwankfelder. he put down his fiddle and take a good look at me. himmel. he say. i have hit the wrong boy. it be not the new boy. why be you not the new boy. why be you not gert schwankfelder. 
i don t know i say. the gentleman in the pink blanket bring me. 
say the indian he be hungry toby. christian always fee the hungry. so i bring him. 
you should have say that first say toby. he push plate at me and the indian put bread and pork on them and a glass of madeira wine. i tell him i be off the french ship which i have join on account of my mother be french. that be true enough when you think of it and besides i saw that the french be all the fashion in philadelphia. toby and the indian whisper and i go on pick up the pill. 
you like pill eh. say toby. no i say. i ve see our ship s doctor roll too many of em. 
ho. he say and he shove two bottle at me. what s those. 
calomel i say. and t other s senna. 
right he say. one week have i try to teach gert schwankfelder the difference between them yet he cannot tell. you like to fiddle. he say. he d just see my kit on the floor. 
oh yes. say i. 
oho. he say. what note be this. draw his bow across. 
he mean it for a so i tell him it be. 
my brother he say to the indian. i think this be the hand of providence. i warn that gert if he go to play upon the wharf any more he would hear from me. now look at this boy and say what you think. 
the indian look me over whole minute there be a musical clock on the wall and doll come out and hop while the hour strike. he look me over all the while they do it. 
good he say at last. this boy be good. 
good then say toby. now i shall play my fiddle and you shall sing your hymn brother. boy go down to the bakery and tell them you be young gert schwankfelder that be. the horse be in davy jones s locker. if you ask any question you shall hear from me. 
i leave em sing hymn and i go down to old conrad gerhard. he wasn t at all surprise when i tell him i be young gert schwankfelder that be. he know toby. his wife she walk me into the back yard without a word and she wash me and she cut my hair to the edge of a basin and she put me to bed and oh. how i sleep how i sleep in that little room behind the oven look on the flower garden. i didn t know toby go to the embuscade that night and buy me off dr karaguen for twelve dollar and a dozen bottle of seneca oil. karaguen want a new lace to his coat and he reckon i hadn t long to live. so he put me down a discharge sick. 
i like toby say una. 
who be he. say puck. 
apothecary tobias hirte pharaoh reply. one hundred and eighteen second street the famous seneca oil man that live half of every year among the indian. but let me tell my tale my own way same a his brown mare use to go to lebanon. 
then why do he keep her in davy jones s locker. dan ask. that be his joke. he keep her under david jones s hat shop in the buck tavern yard and his indian friend keep their pony there when they visit him. i look after the horse when i wasn t roll pill on top of the old spinet while he play his fiddle and red jacket sing hymn. i like it. i have good victual light work a suit o clean clothe a plenty music and quiet smile german folk all around that let me sit in their garden. my first sunday toby take me to his church in moravian alley. and that be in a garden too. the woman wear long eared cap and handkerchief. they come in at one door and the men at another and there be a brass chandelier you could see your face in and a nigger boy to blow the organ bellow. i carry toby s fiddle and he play pretty much a he choose all against the organ and the sing. he be the only one they let do it for they be a simple mind folk. they use to wash each other s foot up in the attic to keep emselves humble. which lord know they didn t need. 
how very queer. say una. 
pharaoh s eye twinkle. i ve meet many and see much he say. but i haven t yet find any good or quiet or forbearing people than the brother and sistern of the moravian church in philadelphia. nor will i ever forget my first sunday the service be in english that week with the smell of the flower come in from pastor meder s garden where the big peach tree be and me look at all the clean strangeness and think of tween deck on the embuscade only six day ago. be a boy it seem to me it have last for ever and be go on for ever. but i didn t know toby then. a soon a the dance clock strike midnight that sunday i be lie under the spinet i hear toby s fiddle. he d just do his supper which he always take late and heavy. gert say he get the horse. liberty and independence for ever. the flower appear upon the earth and the time of the sing of bird be come. we be go to my country seat in lebanon. 
i rub my eye and fetch em out of the buck stable. red jacket be there saddle his and when i d pack the saddle bag we three ride up race street to the ferry by starlight. so we go travel. it s a kindly softly country there back of philadelphia among the german town lancaster way. little house and burst big barn fat cattle fat woman and all a peaceful a heaven might be if they farm there. toby sell medicine out of his saddlebag and give the french war news to folk along the road. him and his long hilted umberell be a well know a the stage coach. he take order for that famous seneca oil which he have the secret of from red jacket s indian and he sleep in friend farmhouse but he would shut all the window. so red jacket and me sleep outside. there s nothing to hurt except snake and they slip away quick enough if you thrash in the bush. 
i d have like that. say dan. 
i d no fault to find with those day. in the cool o the morning the cat bird sing. he s something to listen to. and there s a smell of wild grape vine grow in damp hollow which you drop into after long ride in the heat which be beyond compare for sweetness. so s the puff out of the pine wood of afternoon. come sundown the frog strike up and late on the firefly dance in the corn. oh me the firefly in the corn. we be a week or ten day on the road tack from one place to another such a lancaster bethlehem ephrata thou bethlehem ephrata. no odds i love the go about. and so we jog into dozy little lebanon by the blue mountain where toby have a cottage and a garden of all fruit. he come north every year for this wonderful seneca oil the seneca indian make for him. they d never sell to any one else and he doctor em with von swieten pill which they value more than their own oil. he could do what he choose with them and of course he try to make them moravians. the seneca be a seemly quiet people and they d have trouble enough from white men american and english during the war to keep em in that walk. they live on a reservation by themselves away off by their lake. toby take me up there and they treat me a if i be their own blood brother. red jacket say the mark of my bare foot in the dust be just like an indian s and my style of walk be similar. i know i take to their way all over. 
maybe the gipsy drop in your blood help you. say puck. 
sometimes i think it do pharaoh go on. anyhow red jacket and cornplanter the other seneca chief they let me be adopt into the tribe. it s only a compliment of course but toby be angry when i show up with my face paint. they give me a side name which mean two tongue because d ye see i talk french and english. 
they have their own opinion. i ve hear em. about the french and the english and the american. they d suffer from all of em during the war and they only wish to be leave alone. but they think a heap of the president of the unite state. cornplanter have have dealing with him in some french war out west when general washington be only a lad. his be president afterwards make no odds to em. they always call him big hand for he be a large fisted man and he be all of their notion of a white chief. cornplanter ud sweep his blanket round him and after i d fill his pipe he d begin in the old day long ago when brave be many and blanket be few big hand say if red jacket agree to the say so he d trickle a little smoke out of the corner of his mouth. if he didn t he d blow through his nostril. then cornplanter ud stop and red jacket ud take on. red jacket be the good talker of the two. i ve lay and listen to em for hour. oh. they know general washington well. cornplanter use to meet him at epply s the great dance place in the city before district marshal william nichols buy it. they tell me he be always glad to see em and he d hear em out to the end if they have anything on their mind. they have a good deal in those day. i come at it by degree after i be adopt into the tribe. the talk up in lebanon and everywhere else that summer be about the french war with england and whether the unite state ud join in with france or make a peace treaty with england. toby want peace so a he could go about the reservation buy his oil. but most of the white men wish for war and they be angry because the president wouldn t give the sign for it. the newspaper say men be burn guy fawkes image of general washington and yell after him in the street of philadelphia. you d have be astonish what those two fine old chief know of the in and out of such matter. the little i ve learn of politics i pick up from cornplanter and red jacket on the reservation. toby use to read the aurora newspaper. he be what they call a democrat though our church be against the brother concern themselves with politics. 
i hate politics too say una and pharaoh laugh. 
i might ha guess it he say. but here s something that isn t politics. one hot even late in august toby be read the newspaper on the stoop and red jacket be smoke under a peach tree and i be fiddle. of a sudden toby drop his aurora. 
i be an oldish man too fond of my own comfort he say. i will go to the church which be in philadelphia. my brother lend me a spare pony. i must be there tomorrow night. 
good. say red jacket look at the sun. my brother shall be there. i will ride with him and bring back the pony. 
i go to pack the saddle bag. toby have cure me of ask question. he stop my fiddle if i do. besides indian don t ask question much and i want to be like em. 
when the horse be ready i jump up. 
get off say toby. stay and mind the cottage till i come back. the lord ha lay this on me not on you. i wish he hadn t. 
he powder off down the lancaster road and i sit on the doorstep wonder after him. when i pick up the paper to wrap his fiddle string in i spell out a piece about the yellow fever be in philadelphia so dreadful every one be run away. i be scar for i be fond of toby. we never say much to each other but we fiddle together and music s a good a talk to them that understand. 
do toby die of yellow fever. una ask. 
not him. there s justice leave in the world still. he go down to the city and bleed em well again in heap. he send back word by red jacket that if there be war or he die i be to bring the oil along to the city but till then i be to go on work in the garden and red jacket be to see me do it. down at heart all indian reckon dig a squaw s business and neither him nor cornplanter when he relieve watch be a hard task master. we hire a nigger boy to do our work and a lazy grin runagate he be. when i find toby didn t die the minute he reach town why boylike i take him off my mind and go with my indian again. oh. those day up north at canasedago run race and gamble with the seneca or bee hunt in the wood or fish in the lake. pharaoh sigh and look across the water. but it s best he go on suddenly after the first frost. you roll out o your blanket and find every leaf leave green over night turn red and yellow not by tree at a time but hundred and hundred of mile of em like sunset splatter upside down. on one of such day the maple be flame scarlet and gold and the sumach bush be red cornplanter and red jacket come out in full war dress make the very leaf look silly. feather war bonnet yellow doeskin legging fringe and tasselled red horse blanket and their bridle feather and shell and bead no bound. i think it be war against the british till i saw their face weren t paint and they only carry wrist whip. then i hum yankee doodle at em. they tell me they be go to visit big hand and find out for sure whether he mean to join the french in fight the english or make a peace treaty with england. i reckon those two would ha go out on the war path at a nod from big hand but they know well if there be war twixt england and the unite state their tribe ud catch it from both party same a in all the other war. they ask me to come along and hold the pony. that puzzle me because they always put their pony up at the buck or epply s when they go to see general washington in the city and horse hold be a nigger s job. besides i wasn t exactly dress for it. 
d you mean you be dress like an indian. dan demand. 
pharaoh look a little abash. this didn t happen at lebanon he say but a bite farther north on the reservation. and at that particular moment of time so far a blanket hair band moccasin and sunburn go there wasn t much odds twix me and a young seneca buck. you may laugh he smooth down his long skirt brown coat but i tell you i take to their way all over. i say nothing though i be burst to let out the war whoop like the young men have teach me. 
no and you don t let out one here either say puck before dan could ask. go on brother square toe. 
we go on. pharaoh s narrow dark eye gleam and dance. we go on forty fifty mile a day for day on end we three brave. and how a great tall indian a horse back can carry his war bonnet at a canter through thick timber without brush a feather beat me. my silly head be bang often enough by low branch but they slip through like run elk. we have even hymn sing every night after they d blow their pipe smoke to the quarter of heaven. where do we go. i ll tell you but don t blame me if you re no wise. we take the old war trail from the end of the lake along the east susquehanna through the nantego country right down to fort shamokin on the senachse river. we cross the juniata by fort granville get into shippensberg over the hill by the ochwick trail and then to williams ferry. it s a bad one. from williams ferry across the shanedore over the blue mountain through ashby s gap and so south east by south from there till we find the president at the back of his own plantation. i d hate to be trail by indian in earnest. they catch him like a partridge on a stump. after we d leave our pony we scout forward through a woody piece and creep slow and slow at last if my moccasin even slip red jacket ud turn and frown. i hear voice monsieur genet s for choice long before i saw anything and we pull up at the edge of a clear where some nigger in grey and red livery be hold horse and half a dozen gentleman but one be genet be talk among fell timber. i fancy they d come to see genet a piece on his road for his portmantle be with him. i hide in between two log a near to the company a i be to that old windlass there. i didn t need anybody to show me big hand. he stand up very still his leg a little apart listen to genet that french ambassador which never have more manner than a bosham tinker. genet be a good a order him to declare war on england at once. i have hear that clack before on the embuscade. he say he d stir up the whole unite state to have war with england whether big hand like it or not. 
big hand hear him out to the last end. i look behind me and my two chief have vanish like smoke. say big hand that be very forcibly put monsieur genet. 
citizen citizen. the fellow spit in. i at least be a republican. 
citizen genet he say you may be sure it will receive my full consideration. this seem to take citizen genet back a piece. he ride off grumble and never give his nigger a penny. no gentleman. 
the others all assemble round big hand then and in their way they say pretty much what genet have say. they put it to him here be france and england at war in a manner of speak right across the unite state stomach and pay no regard to any one. the french be search american ship on pretence they be help england but really for to steal the good. the english be do the same only t other way round and besides search they be press american citizen into their navy to help them fight france on pretence that those american be lawful british subject. his gentleman put this very clear to big hand. it didn t look to them they say a though the unite state try to keep out of the fight be any advantage to her because she only catch it from both french and english. they say that nine out of ten good american be crazy to fight the english then and there. they wouldn t say whether that be right or wrong. they only want big hand to turn it over in his mind. he do for a while. i saw red jacket and cornplanter watch him from the far side of the clear and how they have slip round there be another mystery. then big hand draw himself up and he let his gentleman have it. 
hit em. dan ask. 
no nor yet be it what you might call swear. he he blast em with his natural speech. he ask them half a dozen time over whether the unite state have enough arm ship for any shape or sort of war with any one. he ask em if they think she have those ship to give him those ship and they look on the grind a if they expect to find em there. he put it to em whether set ship aside their country i reckon he give em good reason whether the unite state be ready or able to face a new big war. she have but so few year back wind up one against england and be all hold full of her own trouble. a i say the strong way he lay it all before em blast em and when he d do it be like a still in the wood after a storm. a little man but they all look little pipe up like a young rook in a blow down nest nevertheless general it seem you will be compel to fight england. quick big hand wheel on him and be there anything in my past which make you think i be averse to fight great britain. 
everybody laugh except him. oh general you mistake u entirely. they say. i trust so he say. but i know my duty. we must have peace with england. 
at any price. say the man with the rook s voice. 
at any price say he word by word. our ship will be search our citizen will be press but. 
then what about the declaration of independence. say one. 
deal with fact not fancy say big hand. the unite state be in no position to fight england. 
but think of public opinion another one start up. the feel in philadelphia alone be at fever heat. 
he hold up one of his big hand. gentleman he say slow he speak but his voice carry far i have to think of our country. let me assure you that the treaty with great britain will be make though every city in the union burn me in effigy. 
at any price. the actor like chap keep on croak. 
the treaty must be make on great britain s own term. what else can i do. he turn his back on em and they look at each other and slink off to the horse leave him alone. and then i saw he be an old man. then red jacket and cornplanter ride down the clear from the far end a though they have just chance along. back go big hand s shoulder up go his head and he step forward one single pace with a great deep hough. so please he be. that be a statelified meet to behold three big men and two of em look like jewel image among the spattle of gay colour leaf. i saw my chief war bonnet sink together down and down. then they make the sign which no indian make outside of the medicine lodge a sweep of the right hand just clear of the dust and an inbend of the leave knee at the same time and those proud eagle feather almost touch his boot top. 
what do it mean. say dan. 
mean. pharaoh cry. why it s what you what we it s the sachem way of sprinkle the sacred corn meal in front of oh. it s a piece of indian compliment really and it signify that you be a very big chief. 
big hand look down on em. first he say quite softly my brother know it be not easy to be a chief. then his voice grow. my child say he what be in your mind. 
say cornplanter we come to ask whether there will be war with king george s men but we have hear what our father ha say to his chief. we will carry away that talk in our heart to tell to our people. 
no say big hand. leave all that talk behind it be between white men only but take this message from me to your people there will be no war. 
his gentleman be wait so they didn t delay him only cornplanter say use his old side name big hand do you see u among the timber just now. 
surely say he. you teach me to look behind tree when we be both young. and with that he canter off. 
neither of my chief speak till we be back on our pony again and a half hour along the home trail. then cornplanter say to red jacket we will have the corn dance this year. there will be no war. and that be all there be to it. 
pharaoh stand up a though he have finish. 
yes say puck rise too. and what come out of it in the long run. 
let me get at my story my own way be the answer. look. it s late than i think. that shoreham smack s think of her supper. the child look across the darken channel. a smack have hoist a lantern and slowly move west where brighton pier light run out in a twinkle line. when they turn round the gap be empty behind them. 
i expect they ve pack our trunk by now say dan. this time tomorrow we ll be home. 
if. 
if you can keep your head when all about you be lose theirs and blame it on you. if you can trust yourself when all men doubt you but make allowance for their doubt too. if you can wait and not be tire by wait or be lie about don t deal in lie or be hat don t give way to hat and yet don t look too good nor talk too wise. 
if you can dream and not make dream your master. if you can think and not make thought your aim if you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostor just the same. if you can bear to hear the truth you ve speak twist by knave to make a trap for fool or watch the thing you give your life to break and stoop and build em up with wear out tool. 
if you can make one heap of all your winning and risk it on one turn of pitch and toss and lose and start again at your beginning and never breathe a word about your loss. if you can force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long after they be go and so hold on when there be nothing in you except the will which say to them. hold on. 
if you can talk with crowd and keep your virtue or walk with king nor lose the common touch if neither foe nor love friend can hurt you if all men count with you but none too much. if you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty second worth of distance run yours be the earth and everything that s in it and which be more you ll be a man my son. 
a priest in spite of himself. 
a st helena lullaby. 
how far be st helena from a little child at play. what make you want to wander there with all the world between. oh mother call your son again or else he ll run away. no one think of winter when the grass be green. 
how far be st helena from a fight in paris street. i haven t time to answer now the men be fall fast. the gun begin to thunder and the drum begin to beat. if you take the first step you will take the last. 
how far be st helena from the field at austerlitz. you couldn t hear me if i tell so loud the cannon roar. but not so far for people who be live by their wit. gay go up mean gay go down the wide world o er. 
how far be st helena from an emperor of france. i cannot see i cannot tell the crown they dazzle so. the king sit down to dinner and the queen stand up to dance. after open weather you may look for snow. 
how far be st helena from the cape of trafalgar. a longish way a longish way with ten year more to run. it s south across the water underneath a set star. what you cannot finish you must leave undo. 
how far be st helena from the beresina ice. an ill way a chill way the ice begin to crack. but not so far for gentleman who never take advice. when you can t go forward you must e en come back. 
how far be st helena from the field of waterloo. a near way a clear way the ship will take you soon. a pleasant place for gentleman with little leave to do. morning never try you till the afternoon. 
how far from st helena to the gate of heaven s grace. that no one know that no one know and no one ever will. but fold your hand across your heart and cover up your face and after all your trap child lie still. 
a priest in spite of himself. 
the day after they come home from the sea side they set out on a tour of inspection to make sure everything be a they have leave it. soon they discover that old hobden have block their best hedge gap with stake and thorn bundle and have trim up the hedge where the blackberry be set. 
it can t be time for the gipsy to come along say una. why it be summer only the other day. 
there s smoke in low shaw. say dan sniff. let s make sure. 
they cross the field towards the thin line of blue smoke that lean above the hollow of low shaw which lie beside the king s hill road. it use to be an old quarry till somebody plant it and you can look straight down into it from the edge of banky meadow. 
i think so dan whisper a they come up to the fence at the edge of the larch. a gipsy van not the show man s sort but the old black kind with little window high up and a baby gate across the door be get ready to leave. a man be harness the horse. an old woman crouch over the ash of a fire make out of break fence rail. and a girl sit on the van step sing to a baby on her lap. a wise look thin dog snuff at a patch of fur on the grind till the old woman put it carefully in the middle of the fire. the girl reach back inside the van and toss her a paper parcel. this be lay on the fire too and they smelt sing feather. 
chicken feather. say dan. i wonder if they be old hobden s. 
una sneeze. the dog growl and crawl to the girl s foot the old woman fan the fire with her hat while the man lead the horse up to the shaft they all move a quickly and quietly a snake over moss. 
ah. say the girl. i ll teach you. she beat the dog who seem to expect it. 
don t do that una call down. it wasn t his fault. 
how do you know what i m beat him for. she answer. 
for not see u say dan. he be stand right in the smoke and the wind be wrong for his nose anyhow. 
the girl stop beat the dog and the old woman fan fast than ever. 
you ve fan some of your feather out of the fire say una. there s a tail feather by that chestnut tot. 
what of it. say the old woman a she grab it. 
oh nothing. say dan. only i ve hear say that tail feather be a bad a the whole bird sometimes. 
that be a say of hobden s about pheasant. old hobden always burn all feather and fur before he sit down to eat. 
come on mother the man whisper. the old woman climb into the van and the horse draw it out of the deep rut shaw on to the hard road. 
the girl wave her hand and shout something they could not catch. 
that be gipsy for thank you kindly brother and sister say pharaoh lee. 
he be stand behind them his fiddle under his arm. gracious you startle me. say una. 
you startle old priscilla savile puck call from below them. come and sit by their fire. she ought to have put it out before they leave. 
they drop down the ferny side of the shaw. una rake the ash together dan find a dead wormy oak branch that burn without flame and they watch the smoke while pharaoh play a curious wavery air. 
that s what the girl be hum to the baby say una. 
i know it he nod and go on. 
ai lumai lumai lumai. luludia. ai luludia. 
he pass from one odd tune to another and quite forget the child. at last puck ask him to go on with his adventure in philadelphia and among the seneca indian. 
i m tell it he say star straight in front of him a he play. can t you hear. 
maybe but they can t. tell it aloud say puck. 
pharaoh shake himself lay his fiddle beside him and begin. 
i d leave red jacket and cornplanter rid home with me after big hand have say that there wouldn t be any war. that s all there be to it. we believe big hand and we go home again we three brave. when we reach lebanon we find toby at the cottage with his waistcoat a foot too big for him so hard he have work amongst the yellow fever people. he beat me for run off with the indian but twas worth it i be glad to see him and when we go back to philadelphia for the winter and i be tell how he d sacrifice himself over sick people in the yellow fever i think the world and all of him. no i didn t neither. i d think that all along. that yellow fever must have be something dreadful. even in december people have no more than begin to trinkle back to town. whole house stand empty and the nigger be rob them out. but i can t call to mind that any of the moravian brother have die. it seem like they have just keep on with their own concern and the good lord he d just look after em. that be the winter yes winter of ninety three the brother buy a stave for the church. toby speak in favour of it because the cold spoil his fiddle hand but many think stave heat not in the bible and there be yet a third party which always bring hickory coal foot warmer to service and wouldn t speak either way. they end by cast the lot for it which be like pitch and toss. after my summer with the seneca church stove didn t highly interest me so i take to haunt round among the french emigre which philadelphia be full of. my french and my fiddle help me there d ye see. they come over in shipload from france where by what i make out every one be kill every one else by any mean and they spread emselves about the city mostly in drinker s alley and elfrith s alley and they do odd job till time should mend. but whatever they stoop to they be gentry and keep a cheerful countenance and after an even s fiddle at one of their poor little proud party the brother seem old fashion. pastor meder and brother adam goo didn t like my fiddle for hire but toby say it be lawful in me to earn my live by exercise my talent. he never let me be put upon. 
in february of ninety four no march it must have be because a new ambassador call faucher have come from france with no more manner than genet the old one in march red jacket come in from the reservation bring news of all kind friend there. i show him round the city and we saw general washington rid through a crowd of folk that shout for war with england. they give him quite rough music but he look twixt his horse s ear and make out not to notice. his stirrup brished red jacket s elbow and red jacket whisper up my brother know it be not easy to be a chief. big hand shoot just one look at him and nod. then there be a scuffle behind u over some one who wasn t hoot at washington loud enough to please the people. we go away to be out of the fight. indian win t risk be hit. 
what do they do if they be. dan ask. 
kill of course. that s why they have such proper manner. well then come home by drinker s alley to get a new shirt which a french vicomte s lady be wash to take the stiff out of. i m always choice in my body linen. a lame frenchman push a paper of button at u. he hadn t long land in the unite state and please would we buy. he sure ly be a pitiful scrattel his coat half tear off his face cut but his hand steady. so i know it wasn t drink. he say his name be peringuey and he d be knock about in the crowd round the stadt independence hall. one thing lead to another we take him up to toby s room same a red jacket have take me the year before. the compliment he pay to toby s madeira wine fairly conquer the old man for he open a second bottle and he tell this monsieur peringuey all about our great stave dispute in the church. i remember pastor meder and brother adam goo drop in and although they and toby be direct opposite side regard stove yet this monsieur peringuey he make em feel a if he think each one be in the right of it. he say he have be a clergyman before he have to leave france. he admire at toby s fiddle and he ask if red jacket sit by the spinet be a simple huron. seneca aren t huron they re iroquois of course and toby tell him so. well then in due time he arise and leave in a style which make u feel he d be favour u instead of u feed him. i ve never see that so strong before in a man. we all talk him over but couldn t make head or tail of him and red jacket come out to walk with me to the french quarter where i be due to fiddle at a party. pass drinker s alley again we saw a naked window with a light in it and there sit our button sell monsieur peringuey throw dice all alone right hand against leave. 
say red jacket keep back in the dark look at his face. 
i be look. i protest to you i wasn t frighten like i be when big hand talk to his gentleman. i i only look and i wonder that even those dead dumb dice ud dare to fall different from what that face wish. it it be a face. 
he be bad say red jacket. but he be a great chief. the french have send away a great chief. i think so when he tell u his lie. now i know. 
i have to go on to the party so i ask him to call round for me afterwards and we d have hymn sing at toby s a usual. no he say. tell toby i be not christian tonight. all indian. he have those fit sometimes. i want to know more about monsieur peringuey and the emigre party be the very place to find out. it s neither here nor there of course but those french emigre party they almost make you cry. the men that you buy fruit of in market street the hairdresser and fence master and french teacher they turn back again by candlelight to what they use to be at home and you catch their real name. there wasn t much room in the washhouse so i sit on top of the copper and play em the tune they call for si le roi m avait donne and such nursery stuff. they cry sometimes. it hurt me to take their money afterwards indeed it do. and there i find out about monsieur peringuey. he be a proper rogue too. none of em have a good word for him except the marquise that keep the french board house on fourth street. i make out that his real name be the count talleyrand de perigord a priest right enough but sorely come down in the world. he d be king louis ambassador to england a year or two back before the french have cut off king louis head. and by what i hear that head wasn t hardly more than hang loose before he d run back to paris and prevail on danton the very man which do the murder to send him back to england again a ambassador of the french republic. that be too much for the english so they kick him out by act of parliament and he d flee to the america without money or friend or prospect. i m tell you the talk in the washhouse. some of em be laugh over it. say the french marquise my friend you laugh too soon. that man ll be on the win side before any of u. 
i do not know you be so fond of priest marquise say the vicomte. his lady do my wash a i ve tell you. 
i have my reason say the marquise. he send my uncle and my two brother to heaven by the little door that be one of the emigre name for the guillotine. he will be on the win side if it cost him the blood of every friend he ha in the world. 
then what doe he want here. say one of em. we have all lose our game. 
my faith. say the marquise. he will find out if any one can whether this canaille of a washington mean to help u to fight england. genet. that be my ambassador in the embuscade. ha fail and go off disgrace. faucher. he be the new man. hasn t do any good but our abbe will find out and he will make his profit out of the news. such a man doe not fall. 
he begin unluckily say the vicomte. he be set upon today in the street for not hoot your washington. they all laugh again and one remark how doe the poor devil keep himself. 
he must have slip in through the washhouse door for he flit past me and join em cold a ice. 
one doe what one can he say. i sell button. and you marquise. 
i. she wave her poor white hand all burn i be a cook a very bad one at your service abbe. we be just talk about you. 
they didn t treat him like they talk of him. they back off and stand still. 
i have miss something then he say. but i spend this last hour play only for button marquise against a noble savage the veritable huron himself. 
you have your usual luck i hope. she say. 
certainly he say. i cannot afford to lose even button in these day. 
then i suppose the child of nature doe not know that your dice be usually load father tout a tous she continue. i don t know whether she mean to accuse him of cheat. he only bow. not yet mademoiselle cunegonde he say and go on to make himself agreeable to the rest of the company. and that be how i find out our monsieur peringuey be count charles maurice talleyrand de perigord. 
pharaoh stop but the child say nothing. 
you ve hear of him. say pharaoh. 
una shake her head. be red jacket the indian he play dice with. dan ask. 
he be. red jacket tell me the next time we meet. i ask if the lame man have cheat. red jacket say no he have play quite fair and be a master player. i allow red jacket know. i ve see him on the reservation play himself out of everything he have and in again. then i tell red jacket all i d hear at the party concern talleyrand. 
i be right he say. i saw the man s war face when he think he be alone. that s why i play him. i play him face to face. he s a great chief. do they say why he come here. 
they say he come to find out if big hand make war against the english i say. 
red jacket grunt. yes he say. he ask me that too. if he have be a small chief i should have lie. but he be a great chief. he know i be a chief so i tell him the truth. i tell him what big hand say to cornplanter and me in the clear there will be no war. i could not see what he think. i could not see behind his face. but he be a great chief. he will believe. 
will he believe that big hand can keep his people back from war. i say think of the crowd that hoot big hand whenever he ride out. 
he be a bad a big hand be good but he be not a strong a big hand say red jacket. when he talk with big hand he will feel this in his heart. the french have send away a great chief. presently he will go back and make them afraid. 
now wasn t that comical. the french woman that know him and owe all her loss to him. the indian that pick him up cut and muddy on the street and play dice with him. they neither of em doubt that talleyrand be something by himself appearance notwithstanding. 
and be he something by himself. ask una. 
pharaoh begin to laugh but stop. the way i look at it he say talleyrand be one of just three men in this world who be quite by themselves. big hand i put first because i ve see him. ay say puck. i m sorry we lose him out of old england. who d you put second. 
talleyrand. maybe because i ve see him too say pharaoh. 
who s third. say puck. 
boney even though i ve see him. 
whew. say puck. every man ha his own weight and measure but that s queer reckon. boney. say una. you don t mean you ve ever meet napoleon bonaparte. 
there i know you wouldn t have patience with the rest of my tale after hear that. but wait a minute. talleyrand he come round to hundred and eighteen in a day or two to thank toby for his kindness. i didn t mention the dice play but i could see that red jacket s do have make talleyrand highly curious about indian though he would call him the huron. toby a you may believe be all hold full of knowledge concern their manner and habit. he only need a listener. the brother don t study indian much till they join the church but toby know em wild. so even after even talleyrand cross his sound leg over his game one and toby pour forth. have be adopt into the seneca i naturally keep still but toby ud call on me to back up some of his remark and by that mean and a habit he have of draw you on in talk talleyrand saw i know something of his noble savage too. then he try a trick. come back from an emigre party he turn into his little shop and put it to me laugh like that i d go with the two chief on their visit to big hand. i hadn t tell. red jacket hadn t tell and toby of course didn t know. twas just talleyrand s guess. now he say my english and red jacket s french be so bad that i be not sure i get the right of what the president really say to the unsophisticated huron. do me the favour of tell it again. i tell him every word red jacket have tell him and not one word more. i have my suspicion have just come from an emigre party where the marquise be hat and praise him a usual. 
much oblige he say. but i couldn t gather from red jacket exactly what the president say to monsieur genet or to his american gentleman after monsieur genet have ride away. 
i saw talleyrand be guess again for red jacket hadn t tell him a word about the white men s pow wow. 
why hadn t he. puck ask. 
because red jacket be a chief. he tell talleyrand what the president have say to him and cornplanter. but he didn t repeat the talk between the white men that big hand order him to leave behind. oh. say puck. i see. what do you do. 
first i be go to make some sort of tale round it but talleyrand be a chief too. so i say a soon a i get red jacket s permission to tell that part of the tale i ll be delight to refresh your memory abbe. what else could i have do. 
be that all. he say laugh. let me refresh your memory. in a month from now i can give you a hundred dollar for your account of the conversation. 
make it five hundred abbe i say. five then say he. 
that will suit me admirably i say. red jacket will be in town again by then and the moment he give me leave i ll claim the money. 
he have a hard fight to be civil but he come out smile. 
monsieur he say i beg your pardon a sincerely a i envy the noble huron your loyalty. do me the honour to sit down while i explain. 
there wasn t another chair so i sit on the button box. 
he be a clever man. he have get hold of the gossip that the president mean to make a peace treaty with england at any cost. he have find out from genet i reckon who be with the president on the day the two chief meet him. he d hear that genet have have a huff with the president and have ride off leave his business at loose end. what he want what he beg and bluster to know be just the very word which the president have say to his gentleman after genet have leave concern the peace treaty with england. he put it to me that in help him to those very word i d be help three great country a well a mankind. the room be a bare a the palm of your hand but i couldn t laugh at him. 
i m sorry i say when he wipe his forehead. a soon a red jacket give permission. 
you don t believe me then. he cut in. not one little little word abbe i say. except that you mean to be on the win side. remember i ve be fiddle to all your old friend for month. 
well then his temper flee him and he call me name. 
wait a minute ci devant i say at last. i be half english and half french but i be not the half of a man. i will tell thee something the indian tell me. ha thee see the president. 
oh yes. he sneer. i have letter from the lord lansdowne to that estimable old man. 
then i say thee will understand. the red skin say that when thee ha meet the president thee will feel in thy heart he be a strong man than thee. 
go. he whisper. before i kill thee go. 
he look like it. so i leave him. 
why do he want to know so badly. say dan. 
the way i look at it be that if he have know for certain that washington mean to make the peace treaty with england at any price he d ha leave old faucher fumble about in philadelphia while he go straight back to france and tell old danton it s no good your waste time and hope on the unite state because she win t fight on our side that i ve proof of. then danton might have be grateful and give talleyrand a job because a whole mass of thing hang on know for sure who s your friend and who s your enemy. just think of u poor shop keeper for instance. 
do red jacket let you tell when he come back. una ask. 
of course not. he say when cornplanter and i ask you what big hand say to the white you can tell the lame chief. all that talk be leave behind in the timber a big hand order. tell the lame chief there will be no war. he can go back to france with that word. 
talleyrand and me hadn t meet for a long time except at emigre party. when i give him the message he just shake his head. he be sort button in the shop. 
i cannot return to france with nothing good than the word of an unsophisticated savage he say. 
hasn t the president say anything to you. i ask him. 
he ha say everything that one in his position ought to say but but if only i have what he say to his cabinet after genet ride off i believe i could change europe the world maybe. i m sorry i say. maybe you ll do that without my help. 
he look at me hard. either you have unusual observation for one so young or you choose to be insolent he say. 
it be intend for a compliment i say. but no odds. we re off in a few day for our summer trip and i ve come to make my good bye. 
i go on my travel too he say. if ever we meet again you may be sure i will do my best to repay what i owe you. 
without malice abbe i hope i say. 
none whatever say he. give my respect to your adorable dr pangloss. that be one of his side name for toby. and the huron. i never could teach him the difference betwixt huron and seneca. 
then sister haga come in for a paper of what we call pilly button and that be the last i saw of talleyrand in those part. 
but after that you meet napoleon didn t you. say una. wait just a little dearie. after that toby and i go to lebanon and the reservation and be old and know good how to manage him i enjoy myself well that summer with fiddle and fun. when we come back the brother get after toby because i wasn t learn any lawful trade and he have hard work to save me from be apprentice to helmbold and geyer the printer. twould have ruin our music together indeed it would. and when we escape that old matte roush the leather breech maker round the corner take a notion i be cut out for skin dress. but we be rescue. along towards christmas there come a big seal letter from the bank say that a monsieur talleyrand have put five hundred dollar a hundred pound to my credit there to use a i please. there be a little note from him inside he didn t give any address to thank me for past kindness and my believe in his future which he say be pretty cloudy at the time of write. i wish toby to share the money. i hadn t do more than bring talleyrand up to hundred and eighteen. the kindness be toby s. but toby say no. liberty and independence for ever. i have all my want my son. so i give him a set of new fiddle string and the brother didn t advise u any more. only pastor meder he preach about the deceitfulness of rich and brother adam goo say if there be war the english ud surely shoot down the bank. i know there wasn t go to be any war but i draw the money out and on red jacket s advice i put it into horse flesh which i sell to bob bicknell for the baltimore stage coach. that way i double my money inside the twelvemonth. you gipsy. you proper gipsy. puck shout. 
why not. twas fair buy and sell. well one thing lead to another in a few year i have make the begin of a worldly fortune and be in the tobacco trade. 
ah. say puck suddenly. might i inquire if you d ever send any news to your people in england or in france. 
o course i have. i write regular every three month after i d make money in the horse trade. we lee don t like come home empty hand. if it s only a turnip or an egg it s something. oh yes i write good and plenty to uncle aurette and dad don t read very quickly uncle use to slip over newhaven way and tell dad what be go on in the tobacco trade. 
i see. 
aurettes and lee like a two pea. 
go on brother square toe say puck. pharaoh laugh and go on. 
talleyrand he d go up in the world same a me. he d sail to france again and be a great man in the government there awhile but they have to turn him out on account of some story about bribe from american shipper. all our poor emigre say he be surely finish this time but red jacket and me we didn t think it likely not unless he be quite dead. big hand have make his peace treaty with great britain just a he say he would and there be a roar trade twixt england and the unite state for such a ud take the risk of be search by british and french men o war. those two be fight and just a his gentleman tell big hand ud happen the unite state be catch it from both. if an english man o war meet an american ship he d press half the best men out of her and swear they be british subject. most of em be. if a frenchman meet her he d likely have the cargo out of her swear it be mean to aid and comfort the english. and if a spaniard or a dutchman meet her they be hang on to england s coat tail too lord only know what they wouldn t do. it come over me that what i want in my tobacco trade be a fast sail ship and a man who could be french english or american at a pinch. luckily i could lay my hand on both article. so along towards the end of september in the year ninety nine i sail from philadelphia with a hundred and eleven hogshead o good virginia tobacco in the brig berthe aurette name after mother s maiden name hop twould bring me luck which she didn t and yet she do. 
where be you bind for. puck ask. 
er any port i find handy. i didn t tell toby or the brother. they don t understand the in and out of the tobacco trade. 
puck cough a small cough a he shift a piece of wood with his bare foot. 
it s easy for you to sit and judge pharaoh cry. but think o what we have to put up with. we spread our wing and run across the broad atlantic like a hen through a horse fair. even so we be stop by an english frigate three day out. he send a boat alongside and press seven able seaman. i remark it be hard on honest trader but the officer say they be fight all creation and hadn t time to argue. the next english frigate we escape with no more than a shoot in our quarter. then we be chase two day and a night by a french privateer fire between squall and the dirty little english ten gun brig which make him sheer off have the impudence to press another five of our men. that s how we reach to the chop of the channel. twelve good men press out of thirty five. an eighteen pound shoot hole close beside our rudder. our mainsail look like spectacle where the frenchman have hit u and the channel crawl with short hand british cruiser. put that in your pipe and smoke it next time you grumble at the price of tobacco. 
well then to top it off while we be try to get at our leak a french lugger come swoop at u out o the dusk. we warn him to keep away but he fell aboard u and up climb his jabber red cap. we couldn t endure any more indeed we couldn t. we go at em with all we could lay hand on. it didn t last long. they be fifty odd to our twenty three. pretty soon i hear the cutlass throw down and some one bellow for the sacri captain. 
here i be. i say. i don t suppose it make any odds to you thief but this be the unite state brig berthe aurette. 
my aunt. the man say laugh. why be she name that. 
who s speak. i say. twas too dark to see but i think i know the voice. 
enseigne de vaisseau estephe l estrange he sing out and then i be sure. 
oh. i say. it s all in the family i suppose but you have do a fine day s work stephen. 
he whip out the binnacle light and hold it to my face. he be young l estrange my full cousin that i hadn t see since the night the smack sink off telscombe tye six year before. 
whew. he say. that s why she be name for aunt berthe be it. what s your share in her pharaoh. 
only half owner but the cargo s mine. 
that s bad he say. i ll do what i can but you shouldn t have fight u. steve i say you aren t ever go to report our little fall out a a fight. why a revenue cutter ud laugh at it. 
so d i if i wasn t in the republican navy he say. but two of our men be dead d ye see and i m afraid i ll have to take you to the prize court at le havre. 
will they condemn my baccy. i ask. 
to the last ounce. but i be think more of the ship. she d make a sweet little craft for the navy if the prize court ud let me have her he say. 
then i know there be no hope. i don t blame him a man must consider his own interest but nigh every dollar i have be in ship or cargo and steve keep on say you shouldn t have fight u. 
well then the lugger take u to le havre and that be the one time we do want a british ship to rescue u why o course we never saw one. my cousin speak his best for u at the prize court. he own he d no right to rush alongside in the face o the unite state flag but we couldn t get over those two men kill d ye see and the court condemn both ship and cargo. they be kind enough not to make u prisoner only beggar and young l estrange be give the berthe aurette to re arm into the french navy. 
i ll take you round to boulogne he say. mother and the rest ll be glad to see you and you can slip over to newhaven with uncle aurette. or you can ship with me like most o your men and take a turn at king george s loose trade. there s plenty picking he say. 
crazy a i be i couldn t help laugh. 
i ve have my allowance of picking and stealing i say. where be they take my tobacco. twas be load on to a barge. 
up the seine to be sell in paris he say. neither you nor i will ever touch a penny of that money. 
get me leave to go with it i say. i ll see if there s justice to be get out of our american ambassador. 
there s not much justice in this world he say without a navy. but he get me leave to go with the barge and he give me some money. that tobacco be all i have and i follow it like a hound follow a snatch bone. go up the river i fiddle a little to keep my spirit up a well a to make friend with the guard. they be only do their duty. outside o that they be the reasonable o god s creature. they never even laugh at me. so we come to paris by river along in november which the french have christen brumaire. they d give new name to all the month and after such an outrageous silly piece o business a that they wasn t likely to trouble emselves with my right and wrong. they didn t. the barge be lay up below notre dame church in charge of a caretaker and he let me sleep aboard after i d run about all day from office to office seek justice and fair deal and get speech concern liberty. none heed me. look back on it i can t rightly blame em. i d no money my clothe be filthy muck. i hadn t change my linen in week and i d no proof of my claim except the ship s paper which they say i might have steal. the thief. the door keeper to the american ambassador for i never saw even the secretary he swear i speak french a sight too well for an american citizen. bad than that i have spend my money d ye see and i i take to fiddle in the street for my keep. and and a ship s captain with a fiddle under his arm well i don t blame em that they didn t believe me. 
i come back to the barge one day late in this month brumaire it be fair beazled out. old maingon the caretaker he d light a fire in a bucket and be grill a herring. 
courage mon ami he say. dinner be serve. 
i can t eat i say. i can t do any more. it s strong than i be. bah. he say. nothing s strong than a man. me for example. le than two year ago i be blow up in the orient in aboukir bay but i descend again and hit the water like a fairy. look at me now he say. he wasn t much to look at for he d only one leg and one eye but the cheerfullest soul that ever tread shoe leather. that s bad than a hundred and eleven hogshead of baccy he go on. you re young too. what wouldn t i give to be young in france at this hour. there s nothing you couldn t do he say. the ball s at your foot kick it. he say. he kick the old fire bucket with his peg leg. general buonaparte for example. he go on. that man s a babe compare to me and see what he s do already. he s conquer egypt and austria and italy oh. half europe. he say and now he sail back to paris and he sail out to st cloud down the river here don t stare at the river you young fool. and all in front of these pig job lawyer and citizen he make himself consul which be a good a a king. he ll be king too in the next three turn of the capstan king of france england and the world. think o that. he shout and eat your herring. 
i say something about boney. if he hadn t be fight england i shouldn t have lose my baccy should i. 
young fellow say maingon you don t understand. 
we hear cheer. a carriage pass over the bridge with two in it. that s the man himself say maingon. he ll give em something to cheer for soon. he stand at the salute. 
who s t other in black beside him. i ask fairly shake all over. 
ah. he s the clever one. you ll hear of him before long. he s that scoundrel bishop talleyrand. 
it be. i say and up the step i go with my fiddle and run after the carriage call abbe abbe. 
a soldier knock the wind out of me with the back of his sword but i have sense to keep on follow till the carriage stop and there just be a crowd round the house door. i must have be half crazy else i wouldn t have strike up si le roi m avait donne paris la grande ville. i think it might remind him. 
that be a good omen. he say to boney sit all hunch up. and he look straight at me. 
abbe oh abbe. i say. don t you remember toby and hundred and eighteen second street. 
he say not a word. he just crook his long white finger to the guard at the door while the carriage step be let down and i skip into the house and they slam the door in the crowd s face. you go there say a soldier and shove me into an empty room where i catch my first breath since i d leave the barge. presently i hear plate rattle next door there be only fold door between and a cork draw. i tell you some one shout with his mouth full it be all that sulky as sieyes fault. only my speech to the five hundred save the situation. 
do it save your coat. say talleyrand. i hear they tear it when they throw you out. don t gasconade to me. you may be in the road of victory but you aren t there yet. 
then i guess t other man be boney. he stamp about and swear at talleyrand. 
you forget yourself consul say talleyrand or rather you remember yourself corsican. 
pig. say boney and bad. 
emperor. say talleyrand but the way he speak it sound bad of all. some one must have back against the fold door for they fly open and show me in the middle of the room. boney whip out his pistol before i could stand up. 
general say talleyrand to him this gentleman ha a habit of catch u canaille en deshabille. put that thing down. 
boney lay it on the table so i guess which be master. talleyrand take my hand charm to see you again candide he say. how be the adorable dr pangloss and the noble huron. 
they be do very well when i leave i say. but i m not. 
do you sell button now. he say and fill me a glass of wine off the table. 
madeira say he. not so good a some i have drink. 
you mountebank. boney roar. turn that out. he didn t even say man but talleyrand be gentle bear just go on. 
pheasant be not so good a pork he say. you will find some at that table if you will do me the honour to sit down. pas him a clean plate general. and a true a i m here boney slide a plate along just like a sulky child. he be a lanky haired yellow skin little man a nervous a a cat and a dangerous. i could feel that. 
and now say talleyrand cross his game leg over his sound one will you tell me your story. i be in a fluster but i tell him nearly everything from the time he leave me the five hundred dollar in philadelphia up to my lose ship and cargo at le havre. boney begin by listen but after a bite he drop into his own thought and look at the crowd sideways through the front room curtain. talleyrand call to him when i d do. 
eh. what we need now say boney be peace for the next three or four year. 
quite so say talleyrand. meantime i want the consul s order to the prize court at le havre to restore my friend here his ship. 
nonsense. say boney. give away an oak build brig of two hundred and seven ton for sentiment. certainly not. she must be arm into my navy with ten no fourteen twelve pounder and two long four. be she strong enough to bear a long twelve forward. 
now i could ha swear he d pay no heed to my talk but that wonderful head piece of his seemingly skim off every word of it that be useful to him. 
ah general. say talleyrand. you be a magician a magician without moral. but the brig be undoubtedly american and we don t want to offend them more than we have. 
need anybody talk about the affair. he say. he didn t look at me but i know what be in his mind just cold murder because i worry him. and he d order it a easy a order his carriage. 
you can t stop em i say. there s twenty two other men besides me. i felt a little more ud set me scream like a wire hare. 
undoubtedly american talleyrand go on. you would gain something if you return the ship with a message of fraternal good will publish in the moniteur. that s a french paper like the philadelphia aurora. 
a good idea. boney answer. one could say much in a message. 
it might be useful say talleyrand. shall i have the message prepare. he write something in a little pocket ledger. 
yes for me to embellish this even. the moniteur will publish it tonight. 
certainly. sign please say talleyrand tear the leaf out. 
but that s the order to return the brig say boney. be that necessary. why should i lose a good ship. haven t i lose enough ship already. talleyrand didn t answer any of those question. then boney sidle up to the table and jab his pen into the ink. then he shy at the paper again. my signature alone be useless he say. you must have the other two consul a well. sieyes and roger ducos must sign. we must preserve the law. 
by the time my friend present it say talleyrand still look out of window only one signature will be necessary. 
boney smile. it s a swindle say he but he sign and push the paper across. 
give that to the president of the prize court at le havre say talleyrand and he will give you back your ship. i will settle for the cargo myself. you have tell me how much it cost. what profit do you expect to make on it. 
well then a man to man i be bind to warn him that i d set out to run it into england without trouble the revenue and so i couldn t rightly set bound to my profit. 
i guess that all along say puck. 
there be never a lee to warminghurst that wasn t a smuggler last and first. 
the child laugh. 
it s comical enough now say pharaoh. but i didn t laugh then. say talleyrand after a minute i be a bad accountant and i have several calculation on hand at present. shall we say twice the cost of the cargo. 
say. i couldn t say a word. i sit choke and nod like a china image while he write an order to his secretary to pay me i win t say how much because you wouldn t believe it. 
oh. bless you abbe. god bless you. i get it out at last. 
yes he say i be a priest in spite of myself but they call me bishop now. take this for my episcopal bless and he hand me the paper. 
he steal all that money from me say boney over my shoulder. a bank of france be another of the thing we must make. be you mad. he shout at talleyrand. 
quite say talleyrand get up. but be calm. the disease will never attack you. it be call gratitude. this gentleman find me in the street and feed me when i be hungry. 
i see. and he ha make a fine scene of it and you have pay him i suppose. meantime france wait. 
oh. poor france. say talleyrand. good bye candide he say to me. by the way he say have you yet get red jacket s permission to tell me what the president say to his cabinet after monsieur genet ride away. 
i couldn t speak i could only shake my head and boney so impatient he be to go on with his do he run at me and fair push me out of the room. and that be all there be to it. pharaoh stand up and slide his fiddle into one of his big skirt pocket a though it be a dead hare. 
oh. but we want to know lot and lot more say dan. how you get home and what old maingon say on the barge and wasn t your cousin surprise when he have to give back the berthe aurette and. 
tell u more about toby. cry una. 
yes and red jacket say dan. 
win t you tell u any more. they both plead. 
puck kick the oak branch on the fire till it send up a column of smoke that make them sneeze. when they have finish the shaw be empty except for old hobden stamp through the larch. 
they gipsy have take two he say. my black pullet and my liddle gingy speckle cockrel. 
i think so say dan pick up one tail feather that the old woman have overlook. 
which way do they go. which way do the runagates go. say hobden. 
hobby. say una. would you like it if we tell keeper ridley all your going and coming. 
poor honest men. 
your jar of virginny will cost you a guinea which you reckon too much by five shill or ten. but light your churchwarden and judge it accordin when i ve tell you the trouble of poor honest men. 
from the cape of the delaware a you be well aware we sail with tobacco for england but then our own british cruiser they watch u come through sir and they press half a score of u poor honest men. 
or if by quick sail. thick weather prevail. we leave them behind. a we do now and then. we be sure of a gun from each frigate we run from which be often destruction to poor honest men. 
broadside the atlantic we tumble short hand with shoot hole to plug and new canvas to bend and off the azores dutch don and monsieur be wait to terrify poor honest men. 
napoleon s embargo be lay on all cargo which comfort or aid to king george may intend. and since roll twist and leaf of all comfort be chief they try for to steal it from poor honest men. 
with no heart for fight we take refuge in flight but fire a we run our retreat to defend until our stern chaser cut up her fore brace and she fly off the wind from u poor honest men. 
twix the forty and fifty south eastward the drift be and so when we think we be make land s end ala it be ushant with half the king s navy blockade french port against poor honest men. 
but they may not quit station. which be our salvation. so swiftly we stand to the nor ard again. and find the tail of a homeward bind convoy we slip past the scillies like poor honest men. 
twix the lizard and dover we hand our stuff over though i may not inform how we do it nor when. but a light on each quarter low down on the water be well understand by poor honest men. even then we have danger from meddlesome stranger who spy on our business and be not content to take a smooth answer except with a handspike. and they say they be murder by poor honest men. 
to be drown or be shoot be our natural lot why should we moreover be hang in the end after all our great pain for to dangle in chain a though we be smuggler not poor honest men. 
the conversion of st wilfrid. 
eddi s service. 
eddi priest of st wilfrid in the chapel at manhood end order a midnight service for such a care to attend. but the saxon be keep christmas and the night be stormy a well. nobody come to service though eddi ring the bell. 
wicked weather for walk say eddi of manhood end. but i must go on with the service for such a care to attend. the altar candle be light an old marsh donkey come bold a a guest invite and star at the gutter flame. 
the storm beat on at the window the water splash on the floor and a wet yoke weary bullock push in through the open door. how do i know what be great how do i know what be least. that be my father s business say eddi wilfrid s priest. 
but three be gather together listen to me and attend. i bring good news my brother. say eddi of manhood end. and he tell the ox of a manger and a stall in bethlehem and he speak to the as of a rider that ride to jerusalem. 
they steam and drip in the chancel they listen and never stir while just a though they be bishop eddi preach them the word. 
till the gale blow off on the marsh and the window show the day and the ox and the as together wheel and clatter away. 
and when the saxon mock him say eddi of manhood end i dare not shut his chapel on such a care to attend. 
the conversion of st wilfrid. 
they have buy peppermint up at the village and be come home past little st barnabas church when they saw jimmy kidbrooke the carpenter s baby kick at the churchyard gate with a shave in his mouth and the tear run down his cheek. 
una pull out the shave and put in a peppermint. jimmy say he be look for his grand daddy he never seem to take much notice of his father so they go up between the old graf under the leaf drop lime to the porch where jim trot in look about the empty church and scream like a gate hinge. 
young sam kidbrooke s voice come from the bell tower and make them jump. 
why jimmy he call what be you doin here. fetch him father. 
old mr kidbrooke stump downstairs jerk jimmy on to his shoulder star at the child beneath his brass spectacle and stump back again. they laugh. it be so exactly like mr kidbrooke. 
it s all right una call up the stair. we find him sam. doe his mother know. 
he s come off by himself. she ll be justabout crazy sam answer. 
then i ll run down street and tell her. una dart off. 
thank you miss una. would you like to see how we re mendin the bell beam mu dan. 
dan hop up and saw young sam lie on his stomach in a most delightful place among beam and rope close to the five great bell. old mr kidbrooke on the floor beneath be plan a piece of wood and jimmy be eat the shaving a fast a they come away. he never look at jimmy. jimmy never stop eat. and the broad gild bob pendulum of the church clock never stop swing across the white wash wall of the tower. 
dan wink through the sawdust that fell on his upturned face. ring a bell he call. 
i mustn t do that but i ll buzz one of em a bite for you say sam. he pound on the sound bow of the big bell and wake a hollow groan boom that run up and down the tower like creepy feeling down your back. just when it almost begin to hurt it die away in a hurry of beautiful sorrowful cry like a wine glass rub with a wet finger. the pendulum clank one loud clank to each silent swing. 
dan hear una return from mr kidbrooke s and run down to fetch her. she be stand by the font star at some one who kneel at the altar rail. 
be that the lady who practise the organ. she whisper. 
no. she s go into the organ place. besides she wear black dan reply. 
the figure rise and come down the nave. it be a white haired man in a long white gown with a sort of scarf loop low on the neck one end hang over his shoulder. his loose long sleeve be embroider with gold and a deep strip of gold embroidery wave and sparkle round the hem of his gown. 
go and meet him say puck s voice behind the font. it s only wilfrid. 
wilfrid who. say dan. you come along too. 
wilfrid saint of sussex and archbishop of york. i shall wait till he ask me. he wave them forward. their foot squeak on the old grave slab in the centre aisle. the archbishop raise one hand with a pink ring on it and say something in latin. he be very handsome and his thin face look almost a silvery a his thin circle of hair. 
be you alone. he ask. 
puck s here of course say una. do you know him. 
i know him good now than i use to. he beckon over dan s shoulder and speak again in latin. puck patter forward hold himself a straight a an arrow. the archbishop smile. 
be welcome say he. be very welcome. 
welcome to you also o prince of the church puck reply. 
the archbishop bow his head and pass on till he glimmer like a white moth in the shadow by the font. 
he doe look awfully princely say una. isn t he come back. 
oh yes. he s only look over the church. he s very fond of church say puck. what s that. 
the lady who practice the organ be speak to the blower boy behind the organ screen. we can t very well talk here puck whisper. let s go to panama corner. 
he lead them to the end of the south aisle where there be a slab of iron which say in queer long tail letter. orate p. annema jhone coline. the child always call it panama corner. 
the archbishop move slowly about the little church peer at the old memorial tablet and the new glass window. the lady who practise the organ begin to pull out stop and rustle hymn book behind the screen. 
i hope she ll do all the soft lacey tune like treacle on porridge say una. 
i like the trumpety one best say dan. oh look at wilfrid. he s try to shut the altar gate. 
tell him he mustn t say puck quite seriously. 
he can t anyhow dan mutter and tiptoe out of panama corner while the archbishop pat and pat at the carve gate that always spring open again beneath his hand. 
that s no use sir dan whisper. old mr kidbrooke say altar gate be just the one pair of gate which no man can shut. he make em so himself. 
the archbishop s blue eye twinkle. dan saw that he know all about it. 
i beg your pardon dan stammer very angry with puck. 
yes i know. he make them so himself. the archbishop smile and cross to panama corner where una drag up a certain pad arm chair for him to sit on. 
the organ play softly. what doe that music say. he ask. 
una drop into the chant without think. o all ye work of the lord bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him for ever. we call it the noah s ark because it s all list of thing beast and bird and whale you know. 
whale. say the archbishop quickly. 
yes o ye whale and all that move in the water una hum bless ye the lord. it sound like a wave turn over doesn t it. 
holy father say puck with a demure face be a little seal also one who move in the water. 
eh. oh yes yes. he laugh. a seal move wonderfully in the water. do the seal come to my island still. 
puck shake his head. all those little island have be sweep away. 
very possible. the tide run fiercely down there. do you know the land of the sea calf maiden. 
no but we ve see seal at brighton. 
the archbishop be think of a little farther down the coast. he mean seal s eye selsey down chichester way where he convert the south saxon puck explain. 
yes yes. if the south saxon do not convert me say the archbishop smile. the first time i be wreck be on that coast. a our ship take grind and we try to push her off an old fat fellow of a seal i remember rear breast high out of the water and scratch his head with his flipper a if he be say. what doe that excite person with the pole think he be do. i be very wet and miserable but i could not help laugh till the native come down and attack u. 
what do you do. dan ask. 
one couldn t very well go back to france so one try to make them go back to the shore. all the south saxon be bear wrecker like my own northumbrian folk. i be bring over a few thing for my old church at york and some of the native lay hand on them and and i m afraid i lose my temper. 
it be say puck s voice be wickedly meek that there be a great fight. 
eh but i must ha be a silly lad. wilfrid speak with a sudden thick burr in his voice. he cough and take up his silvery tone again. there be no fight really. my men thump a few of them but the tide rise half an hour before it time with a strong wind and we back off. what i want to say though be that the sea about u be full of sleek seal watch the scuffle. my good eddi my chaplain insist that they be demon. yes yes. that be my first acquaintance with the south saxon and their seal. 
but not the only time you be wreck be it. say dan. 
ala no. on sea and land my life seem to have be one long shipwreck. he look at the jhone coline slab a old hobden sometimes look into the fire. ah well. 
but do you ever have any more adventure among the seal. say una after a little. 
oh the seal. i beg your pardon. they be the important thing. yes yes. i go back to the south saxon after twelve fifteen year. no i do not come by water but overland from my own northumbria to see what i could do. it s little one can do with that class of native except make them stop kill each other and themselves why do they kill themselves. una ask her chin in her hand. 
because they be heathen. when they grow tire of life. a if they be the only people. they would jump into the sea. they call it go to wotan. it wasn t want of food always by any mean. a man would tell you that he felt grey in the heart or a woman would say that she saw nothing but long day in front of her. and they d saunter away to the mud flat and that would be the end of them poor soul unless one head them off. one have to run quick but one can t allow people to lay hand on themselves because they happen to feel grey. yes yes extraordinary people the south saxon. dishearten sometimes. what doe that say now. the organ have change tune again. 
only a hymn for next sunday say una. the church s one foundation. go on please about run over the mud. i should like to have see you. 
i dare say you would and i really could run in those day. ethelwalch the king give me some five or six muddy parish by the sea and the first time my good eddi and i ride there we saw a man slouch along the slob among the seal at manhood end. my good eddi dislike seal but he swallow his objection and run like a hare. 
why. say dan. 
for the same reason that i do. we think it be one of our people go to drown himself. a a matter of fact eddi and i be nearly drown in the pool before we overtake him. to cut a long story short we find ourselves very muddy very breathless be quietly make fun of in good latin by a very well speak person. no he d no idea of go to wotan. he be fish on his own beach and he show u the beacon and turf heap that divide his land from the church property. he take u to his own house give u a good dinner some more than good wine send a guide with u into chichester and become one of my best and most refresh friend. he be a meon by descent from the west edge of the kingdom. a scholar educate curiously enough at lyon my old school. have travel the world over even to rome and be a brilliant talker. we find we have score of acquaintance in common. it seem he be a small chief under king ethelwalch and i fancy the king be somewhat afraid of him. the south saxon mistrust a man who talk too well. ah. now i ve leave out the very point of my story. he keep a great grey muzzle old dog seal that he have bring up from a pup. he call it padda after one of my clergy. it be rather like fat honest old padda. the creature follow him everywhere and nearly knock down my good eddi when we first meet him. eddi loathe it. it use to sniff at his thin leg and cough at him. i can t say i ever take much notice of it. i be not fond of animal. till one day eddi come to me with a circumstantial account of some witchcraft that meon work. he would tell the seal to go down to the beach the last thing at night and bring him word of the weather. when it come back meon might say to his slave padda think we shall have wind tomorrow. haul up the boat. i speak to meon casually about the story and he laugh. 
he tell me he could judge by the look of the creature s coat and the way it sniff what weather be brew. quite possible. one need not put down everything one doe not understand to the work of bad spirit or good one for that matter. he nod towards puck who nod gaily in return. 
i say so he go on because to a certain extent i have be make a victim of that habit of mind. some while after i be settle at selsey king ethelwalch and queen ebba order their people to be baptize. i fear i m too old to believe that a whole nation can change it heart at the king s command and i have a shrewd suspicion that their real motive be to get a good harvest. no rain have fall for two or three year but a soon a we have finish baptize it fell heavily and they all say it be a miracle. 
and be it. dan ask. 
everything in life be a miracle but the archbishop twist the heavy ring on his finger i should be slow ve ry slow should i be to assume that a certain sort of miracle happen whenever lazy and improvident people say they be go to turn over a new leaf if they be pay for it. my friend meon have send his slave to the font but he have not come himself so the next time i ride over to return a manuscript i take the liberty of ask why. he be perfectly open about it. he look on the king s action a a heathen attempt to curry favour with the christian god through me the archbishop and he would have none of it. 
my dear man i say admit that that be the case surely you a an educate person don t believe in wotan and all the other hobgoblin any more than padda here. the old seal be hunch up on his ox hide behind his master s chair. 
even if i don t he say why should i insult the memory of my father god. i have send you a hundred and three of my rascal to christen. isn t that enough. 
by no mean i answer. i want you. 
he want u. what do you think of that padda. he pull the seal s whisker till it throw back it head and roar and he pretend to interpret. no. padda say he win t be baptize yet awhile. he say you ll stay to dinner and come fish with me tomorrow because you re over work and need a rest. 
i wish you d keep yon brute in it proper place i say and eddi my chaplain agree. 
i do say meon. i keep him just next my heart. he can t tell a lie and he doesn t know how to love any one except me. it ud be the same if i be die on a mud bank wouldn t it padda. 
augh. augh. say padda and put up his head to be scratch. 
then meon begin to tease eddi. padda say if eddi saw his archbishop die on a mud bank eddi would tuck up his gown and run. padda know eddi can run too. padda come into wittering church last sunday all wet to hear the music and eddi run out. 
my good eddi rub his hand and his shin together and flush. padda be a child of the devil who be the father of lie. he cry and beg my pardon for have speak. i forgive him. 
yes. you be just about stupid enough for a musician say meon. but here he be. sing a hymn to him and see if he can stand it. you ll find my small harp beside the fireplace. 
eddi who be really an excellent musician play and sing for quite half an hour. padda shuffle off his ox hide hunch himself on his flipper before him and listen with his head throw back. yes yes. a rather funny sight. meon try not to laugh and ask eddi if he be satisfy. 
it take some time to get an idea out of my good eddi s head. he look at me. 
do you want to sprinkle him with holy water and see if he fly up the chimney. why not baptize him. say meon. 
eddi be really shock. i think it be bad taste myself. 
that s not fair say meon. you call him a demon and a familiar spirit because he love his master and like music and when i offer you a chance to prove it you win t take it. look here. i ll make a bargain. i ll be baptize if you ll baptize padda too. he s more of a man than most of my slave. 
one doesn t bargain or joke about these matter i say. he be go altogether too far. 
quite right say meon. i shouldn t like any one to joke about padda. padda go down to the beach and bring u tomorrow s weather. 
my good eddi must have be a little over tire with his day s work. i be a servant of the church he cry. my business be to save soul not to enter into fellowship and understanding with accurse beast. 
have it your own narrow way say meon. padda you needn t go. the old fellow flounce back to his ox hide at once. 
man could learn obedience at least from that creature say eddi a little ashamed of himself. christian should not curse. don t begin to apologise just when i be begin to like you say meon. we ll leave padda behind tomorrow out of respect to your feeling. now let s go to supper. we must be up early tomorrow for the white. 
the next be a beautiful crisp autumn morning a weather breeder if i have take the trouble to think. but it s refresh to escape from king and convert for half a day. we three go by ourselves in meon s small boat and we get on the white near an old wreck a mile or so off shore. meon know the mark to a yard and the fish be keen. yes yes. a perfect morning s fish. if a bishop can t be a fisherman who can. he twiddle his ring again. we stay there a little too long and while we be get up our stone down come the fog. after some discussion we decide to row for the land. the ebb be just begin to make round the point and send u all way at once like a coracle. 
selsey bill say puck under his breath. the tide run something furious there. 
i believe you say the archbishop. meon and i have spend a good many evening argue a to where exactly we drift. all i know be we find ourselves in a little rocky cove that have spring up round u out of the fog and a swell lift the boat on to a ledge and she break up beneath our foot. we have just time to shuffle through the weed before the next wave. the sea be rise. it s rather a pity we didn t let padda go down to the beach last night say meon. he might have warn u this be come. 
good fall into the hand of god than the hand of demon say eddi and his teeth chatter a he pray. a nor west breeze have just get up distinctly cool. 
save what you can of the boat say meon. we may need it and we have to drench ourselves again fish out stray plank. 
what for. say dan. 
for firewood. we do not know when we should get off. eddi have flint and steel and we find dry fuel in the old gull nest and light a fire. it smoke abominably and we guard it with boat plank up end between the rock. one get use to that sort of thing if one travel. unluckily i m not so strong a i be. i fear i must have be a trouble to my friend. it be blow a full gale before midnight. eddi wring out his cloak and try to wrap me in it but i order him on his obedience to keep it. however he hold me in his arm all the first night and meon beg his pardon for what he d say the night before about eddi run away if he find me on a sandbank you remember. you be right in half your prophecy say eddi. i have tuck up my gown at any rate. the wind have blow it over his head. now let u thank god for his mercy. 
hum. say meon. if this gale last we stand a very fair chance of die of starvation. 
if it be god s will that we survive god will provide say eddi. at least help me to sing to him. the wind almost whip the word out of his mouth but he brace himself against a rock and sing psalm. 
i m glad i never conceal my opinion from myself that eddi be a good man than i. yet i have work hard in my time very hard. yes yes. so the morning and the even be our second day on that islet. there be rain water in the rock pool and a a churchman i know how to fast but i admit we be hungry. meon feed our fire chip by chip to eke it out and they make me sit over it the dear fellow when i be too weak to object. meon hold me in his arm the second night just like a child. my good eddi be a little out of his sens and imagine himself teach a york choir to sing. even so he be beautifully patient with them. 
i hear meon whisper if this keep up we shall go to our god. i wonder what wotan will say to me. he must know i don t believe in him. on the other hand i can t do what ethelwalch find so easy curry favour with your god at the last minute in the hope of be save a you call it. how do you advise bishop. my dear man i say if that be your honest belief i take it upon myself to say you have far good not curry favour with any god. but if it s only your jutish pride that hold you back lift me up and i ll baptize you even now. 
lie still say meon. i could judge good if i be in my own hall. but to desert one s father god even if one doesn t believe in them in the middle of a gale isn t quite what would you do yourself. 
i be lie in his arm keep alive by the warmth of his big steady heart. it do not seem to me the time or the place for subtle argument so i answer no i certainly should not desert my god. i don t see even now what else i could have say. 
thank you. i ll remember that if i live say meon and i must have drift back to my dream about northumbria and beautiful france for it be broad daylight when i hear him call on wotan in that high shake heathen yell that i detest so. 
lie quiet. i m give wotan his chance he say. our dear eddi amble up still beat time to his imaginary choir. 
yes. call on your god he cry and see what gift they will send you. they be go on a journey or they be hunt. 
i assure you the word be not out of his mouth when old padda shoot from the top of a cold wrinkle swell drive himself over the weedy ledge and land fair in our lap with a rock cod between his teeth. i could not help smile at eddi s face. a miracle. a miracle. he cry and kneel down to clean the cod. 
you ve be a long time find u my son say meon. now fish fish for all our life. we re starve padda. 
the old fellow fling himself quiver like a salmon backward into the boil of the current round the rock and meon say we re safe. i ll send him to fetch help when this wind drop. eat and be thankful. 
i never taste anything so good a those rock codling we take from padda s mouth and half roast over the fire. between his plunge padda would hunch up and purr over meon with the tear run down his face. i never know before that seal could weep for joy a i have weep. 
surely say eddi with his mouth full god ha make the seal the lovely of his creature in the water. look how padda breast the current. he stand up against it like a rock. now watch the chain of bubble where he dive. and now there be his wise head under that rock ledge. oh a bless be on thee my little brother padda. 
you say he be a child of the devil. meon laugh. there i sin poor eddi answer. call him here and i will ask his pardon. god send him out of the storm to humble me a fool. 
i win t ask you to enter into fellowship and understanding with any accurse brute say meon rather unkindly. shall we say he be send to our bishop a the raven be send to your prophet elijah. 
doubtless that be so say eddi. i will write it so if i live to get home. 
no no. i say. let u three poor men kneel and thank god for his mercy. 
we kneel and old padda shuffle up and thrust his head under meon s elbow. i lay my hand upon it and bless him. so do eddi. 
and now my son i say to meon shall i baptize thee. 
not yet say he. wait till we be well ashore and at home. no god in any heaven shall say that i come to him or leave him because i be wet and cold. i will send padda to my people for a boat. be that witchcraft eddi. 
why no. surely padda will go and pull them to the beach by the skirt of their gown a he pull me in wittering church to ask me to sing. only then i be afraid and do not understand say eddi. 
you be understand now say meon and at a wave of his arm off go padda to the mainland make a wake like a war boat till we lose him in the rain. meon s people could not bring a boat across for some hour. even so it be ticklish work among the rock in that tideway. but they hoist me aboard too stiff to move and padda swim behind u bark and turn somersault all the way to manhood end. 
good old padda. murmur dan. 
when we be quite rest and re clothe and his people have be summon not an hour before meon offer himself to be baptize. 
be padda baptize too. una ask. 
no that be only meon s joke. but he sit blink on his ox hide in the middle of the hall. when eddi. who think i wasn t look. make a little cross in holy water on his wet muzzle he kiss eddi s hand. a week before eddi wouldn t have touch him. that be a miracle if you like. but seriously i be more glad than i can tell you to get meon. a rare and splendid soul that never look back never look back. the arch bishop half close his eye. 
but sir say puck most respectfully haven t you leave out what meon say afterwards. before the bishop could speak he turn to the child and go on. meon call all his fisher and plowman and herdsman into the hall and he say. listen men. two day ago i ask our bishop whether it be fair for a man to desert his father god in a time of danger. our bishop say it be not fair. you needn t shout like that because you be all christian now. my red war boat s crew will remember how near we all be to death when padda fetch them over to the bishop s islet. you can tell your mate that even in that place at that time hang on the wet weedy edge of death our bishop a christian counsel me a heathen to stand by my father god. i tell you now that a faith which take care that every man shall keep faith even though he may save his soul by break faith be the faith for a man to believe in. so i believe in the christian god and in wilfrid his bishop and in the church that wilfrid rule. you have be baptize once by the king s order. i shall not have you baptize again. but if i find any more old woman be send to wotan or any girl dance on the sly before bald or any men talk about thun or lok or the rest i will teach you with my own hand how to keep faith with the christian god. go out quietly. you ll find a couple of beef on the beach. then of course they shout hurrah. which mean thor help u. and i think you laugh sir. 
i think you remember it all too well say the archbishop smile. it be a joyful day for me. i have learn a great deal on that rock where padda find u. yes yes. one should deal kindly with all the creature of god and gently with their master. but one learn late. 
he rise and his gold embroider sleeve rustle thickly. 
the organ crack and take deep breath. 
wait a minute dan whisper. she s go to do the trumpety one. it take all the wind you can pump. it s in latin sir. 
there be no other tongue the archbishop answer. 
it s not a real hymn una explain. she doe it a a treat after her exercise. she isn t a real organist you know. she just come down here sometimes from the albert hall. 
oh what a miracle of a voice. say the archbishop. 
it ring out suddenly from a dark arch of lonely noise every word speak to the very end. 
dy irae dy illa solvet saeclum in favilla teste david cum sibylla. the archbishop catch his breath and move forward. the music carry on by itself a while. 
now it s call all the light out of the window una whisper to dan. 
i think it s more like a horse neigh in battle he whisper back. the voice continue. 
tuba mirum spargens sonum per sepulchre regionum. 
deep and deep the organ dive down but far below it deep note they hear puck s voice join in the last line. 
coget omnes ante thronum. 
a they look in wonder for it sound like the dull jar of one of the very pillar shift the little fellow turn and go out through the south door. 
now s the sorrowful part but it s very beautiful. una find herself speak to the empty chair in front of her. 
what be you do that for. dan say behind her. you speak so politely too. 
i don t know. i think say una. funny. 
tisn t. it s the part you like best dan grunt. 
the music have turn soft full of little sound that chase each other on wing across the broad gentle flood of the main tune. but the voice be ten time lovely than the music. 
recordare jesu pie quod sum causa tuae viae ne me perdas illi die. 
there be no more. they move out into the centre aisle. 
that you. the lady call a she shut the lid. i think i hear you and i play it on purpose. 
thank you awfully say dan. we hop you would so we wait. come on una it s pretty nearly dinner time. 
song of the red war boat. 
shove off from the wharf edge. steady. watch for a smooth. give way. if she feel the lop already she ll stand on her head in the bay. it s ebb it s dusk it s blow the shoal be a mile of white but. snatch her along. we re go to find our master tonight. 
for we hold that in all disaster of shipwreck storm or sword a man must stand by his master when once he have pledge his word. 
rag sea have we row in but we seldom saw them thus. our master be angry with odin odin be angry with u. heavy odds have we take but never before such odds. the god know they be forsake we must risk the wrath of the god. 
over the crest she fly from into it hollow she drop crouch and clear her eye from the wind tear breaker top ere out on the shriek shoulder of a hill high surge she drive. meet her. meet her and hold her. pull for your scoundrel life. 
the thunder bellow and clamour the harm that they mean to do. there go thor s own hammer crack the dark in two. 
close. but the blow ha miss her here come the wind of the blow. row or the squall ll twist her broadside on to it. row. 
hearken thor of the thunder. we be not here for a jest for wager warfare or plunder or to put your power to test. this work be none of our wish we would stay at home if we might but our master be wreck out fish we go to find him tonight. 
for we hold that in all disaster a the god themselves have say a man must stand by his master till one of the two be dead. 
that be our way of think now you can do a you will while we try to save her from sink and hold her head to it still. bale her and keep her move or she ll break her back in the trough. who say the weather s improve and the swell be take off. 
sodden and chafe and ache go in the loin and knee no matter the day be break and there s far le weight to the sea. up mast and finish bale in oar and out with the mead the rest will be two reef sail. that be a night indeed. but we hold that in all disaster. and faith we have find it true. if only you stand by your master the god will stand by you. 
a doctor of medicine. 
an astrologer s song. 
to the heaven above u oh look and behold the planet that love u all harness in gold. what chariot what horse against u shall bide while the star in their course do fight on our side. 
all think all desire that be under the sun be one with their fire a we also be one. all matter all spirit all fashion all frame receive and inherit their strength from the same. 
oh man that deniest all power save thine own their power in the high be mightily show. not le in the low that power be make clear. oh man if thou knowest what treasure be here. 
earth quake in her throe and we wonder for why. but the blind planet know when her ruler be nigh. and attune since creation to perfect accord she thrill in her station and yearn to her lord. 
the water have rise the spring be unbind the flood break their prison and ravin around. no rampart withstand em their fury will last till the sign that command em sink low or swing past. 
through abyss unproven and gulf beyond think our portion be weave our burden be bring. yet they that prepare it whose nature we share make u who must bear it well able to bear. 
though terror o ertake u we ll not be afraid no power can unmake u save that which ha make. nor yet beyond reason nor hope shall we fall all thing have their season and mercy crown all. 
then doubt not ye fearful the eternal be king up heart and be cheerful and lustily sing. what chariot what horse against u shall bide while the star in their course do fight on our side. 
a doctor of medicine. 
they be play hide and seek with bicycle lamp after tea. dan have hang his lamp on the apple tree at the end of the hellebore bed in the wall garden and be crouch by the gooseberry bush ready to dash off when una should spy him. he saw her lamp come into the garden and disappear a she hide it under her cloak. while he listen for her footstep somebody. they both think it be phillips the gardener. cough in the corner of the herb bed. 
all right una shout across the asparagus. we aren t hurt your old bed phippsey. 
she flash her lantern towards the spot and in it circle of light they saw a guy fawkes look man in a black cloak and a steeple crown hat walk down the path beside puck. they run to meet him and the man say something to them about room in their head. after a time they understand he be warn them not to catch cold. 
you ve a bite of a cold yourself haven t you. say una for he end all his sentence with a consequential cough. puck laugh. 
child the man answer if it hath please heaven to afflict me with an infirmity. 
nay nay puck strike in the maid speak out of kindness. i know that half your cough be but a catch to trick the vulgar. and that s a pity. there s honesty enough in you nick without rasp and hawk. 
good people the man shrug his lean shoulder the vulgar crowd love not truth unadorned. wherefore we philosopher must need dress her to catch their eye or ahem. their ear. 
and what d you think of that. say puck solemnly to dan. 
i don t know he answer. it sound like lesson. 
ah well. there have be bad men than nick culpeper to take lesson from. now where can we sit that s not indoors. 
in the hay mow next to old middenboro dan suggest. he doesn t mind. 
eh. mr culpeper be stoop over the pale hellebore bloom by the light of una s lamp. doe master middenboro need my poor service then. 
save him no. say puck. he be but a horse next door to an as a you ll see presently. come. 
their shadow jump and slide on the fruit tree wall. they file out of the garden by the snore pig pound and the croon hen house to the shed where middenboro the old lawn mower pony life. his friendly eye show green in the light a they set their lamp down on the chicken drink trough outside and push past to the hay mow. mr culpeper stoop at the door. 
mind where you lie say dan. this hay s full of hedge brishings. 
in. in. say puck. you ve lie in foul place than this nick. ah. let u keep touch with the star. he kick open the top of the half door and point to the clear sky. there be the planet you conjure with. what doe your wisdom make of that wander and variable star behind those apple bough. 
the child smile. a bicycle that they know well be be walk down the steep lane. where. mr culpeper lean forward quickly. that. some countryman s lantern. 
wrong nick say puck. ti a singular bright star in virgo decline towards the house of aquarius the water carrier who hath lately be afflict by gemini. aren t i right una. mr culpeper snort contemptuously. 
no. it s the village nurse go down to the mill about some fresh twin that come there last week. nurse una call a the light stop on the flat when can i see the morris twin. and how be they. 
next sunday perhaps. do beautifully the nurse call back and with a ping ping ping of the bell brush round the corner. 
her uncle s a vetinary surgeon near banbury una explain and if you ring her bell at night it ring right beside her bed not downstairs at all. then she ump up she always keep a pair of dry boot in the fender you know and go anywhere she s want. we help her bicycle through gap sometimes. most of her baby do beautifully. she tell u so herself. 
i doubt not then that she read in my book say mr culpeper quietly. twin at the mill. he mutter half aloud. and again he sayeth return ye child of men. 
be you a doctor or a rector. una ask and puck with a shout turn head over heel in the hay. but mr culpeper be quite serious. he tell them that he be a physician astrologer a doctor who know all about the star a well a all about herb for medicine. he say that the sun the moon and five planet call jupiter mar mercury saturn and venus govern everybody and everything in the world. they all live in house he map out some of them against the dark with a busy forefinger and they move from house to house like piece at draught. and they go love and hat each other all over the sky. if you know their like and dislike he say you could make them cure your patient and hurt your enemy and find out the secret cause of thing. he talk of these five planet a though they belong to him or a though he be play long game against them. the child burrow in the hay up to their chin and look out over the half door at the solemn star powder sky till they seem to be fall upside down into it while mr culpeper talk about trine and opposition and conjunction and sympathy and antipathy in a tone that just match thing. 
a rat run between middenboro s foot and the old pony stamp. 
mid hate rat say dan and pass him over a lock of hay. i wonder why. 
divine astrology tell u say mr culpeper. the horse be a martial beast that beareth man to battle belong naturally to the red planet mar the lord of war. i would show you him but he s too near his set. rat and mouse do their business by night come under the dominion of our lady the moon. now between mar and luna the one red t other white the one hot t other cold and so forth stand a i have tell you a natural antipathy or a you say hatred. which antipathy their creature do inherit. whence good people you may both see and hear your cattle stamp in their stall for the self same cause a decree the passage of the star across the unalterable face of heaven. ahem. puck lay along chew a leaf. they felt him shake with laughter and mr culpeper sit up stiffly. 
i myself say he have save men s life and not a few neither by observe at the proper time there be a time mark you for all thing under the sun by observe i say so small a beast a a rat in conjunction with so great a matter a this dread arch above u. he sweep his hand across the sky. yet there be those he go on sourly who have year without knowledge. 
right say puck. no fool like an old fool. 
mr culpeper wrap his cloak round him and sit still while the child star at the great bear on the hilltop. 
give him time puck whisper behind his hand. he turn like a timber tug all of a piece. 
ahem. mr culpeper say suddenly. i ll prove it to you. when i be physician to saye s horse and fight the king or rather the man charles stuart in oxfordshire. i have my learn at cambridge. the plague be very hot all around u. i saw it at close hand. he who say i be ignorant of the plague for example be altogether beside the bridge. 
we grant it say puck solemnly. but why talk of the plague this rare night. 
to prove my argument. this oxfordshire plague good people be generate among river and ditch be of a werish watery nature. therefore it be curable by drench the patient in cold water and lay him in wet cloth. or at least so i cure some of them. mark this. it bear on what shall come after. 
mark also nick say puck that we be not your college of physician but only a lad and a lass and a poor lubberkin. therefore be plain old hyssop on the wall. 
to be plain and in order with you i be shoot in the chest while gather of betony from a brookside near thame and be take by the king s men before their colonel one blagg or bragge whom i warn honestly that i have spend the week past among our plague stricken. he fling me off into a cowshed much like this here to die a i suppose. but one of their priest creep in by night and dress my wind. he be a sussex man like myself. 
who be that. say puck suddenly. zack tutshom. 
no jack marget say mr culpeper. 
jack marget of new college. the little merry man that stammer so. why a plague be stutter jack at oxford then. say puck. 
he have come out of sussex in hope of be make a bishop when the king should have conquer the rebel a he style u parliament men. his college have lend the king some monies too which they never get again no more than simple jack get his bishopric. when we meet he have have a bitter bellyful of king s promise and wish to return to his wife and babe. this come about beyond expectation for so soon a i could stand of my wind the man blagge make excuse that i have be among the plague and jack have be tend me to thrust u both out from their camp. the king have do with jack now that jack s college have lend the money and blagge s physician could not abide me because i would not sit silent and see him butch the sick. he be a college of physician man. so blagge i say thrust u both out with many vile word for a pair of pestilent prate pragmatical rascal. 
ha. call you pragmatical nick. puck start up. high time oliver come to purge the land. how do you and honest jack fare next. 
we be in some sort constrain to each other s company. i be for go to my house in spitalfields he would go to his parish in sussex. but the plague be break out and spread through wiltshire berkshire and hampshire and he be so mad distract to think that it might even then be among his folk at home that i bore him company. he have comfort me in my distress. i could not have do le. and i remember that i have a cousin at great wigsell near by jack s parish. thus we foot it from oxford cassock and buff coat together resolute to leave war on the leave side henceforth. and either through our mean appearance or the plague make men le cruel we be not hinder. to be sure they put u in the stock one half day for rogue and vagabond at a village under st leonard s forest where a i have hear nightingale never sing. but the constable very honestly give me back my astrological almanac which i carry with me. mr culpeper tap his thin chest. i dress a whitlow on his thumb. so we go forward. 
not to trouble you with impertinence we fetch over against jack marget s parish in a storm of rain about the day s end. here our road divide for i would have go on to my cousin at great wigsell but while jack be point me out his steeple we saw a man lie drink a he conceive athwart the road. he say it would be one hebden a parishioner and till then a man of good life. and he accuse himself bitterly for an unfaithful shepherd that have leave his flock to follow prince. but i saw it be the plague and not the beginning of it neither. they have set out the plague stone and the man s head lay on it. 
what s a plague stone. dan whisper. 
when the plague be so hot in a village that the neighbour shut the road against em people set a hollow stone pot or pan where such a would purchase victual from outside may lay money and the paper of their want and depart. those that would sell come late what will a man not do for gain. snatch the money forth and leave in exchange such good a their conscience reckon fair value. i saw a silver groat in the water and the man s list of what he would buy be rain pulp in his wet hand. 
my wife. oh my wife and babe. say jack of a sudden and make uphill i with him. 
a woman peer out from behind a barn cry out that the village be stricken with the plague and that for our life sake we must avoid it. 
sweetheart. say jack. must i avoid thee. and she leap at him and say the babe be safe. she be his wife. 
when he have thank god even to tear he tell me this be not the welcome he have intend and press me to flee the place while i be clean. 
nay. the lord do so to me and more also if i desert thee now i say. these affair be under god s leave in some fashion my strength. 
oh sir she say be you a physician. we have none. 
then good people say i i must e en justify myself to you by my work. 
look look ye stammer jack i take you all this time for a crazy roundhead preacher. he laugh and she and then i all three together in the rain be overtake by an unreasonable gust or clap of laughter which none the le ease u. we call it in medicine the hysterical passion. so i go home with em. 
why do you not go on to your cousin at great wigsell nick. puck suggest. ti barely seven mile up the road. 
but the plague be here mr culpeper answer and point up the hill. what else could i have do. 
what be the parson s child call. say una. 
elizabeth alison stephen and charles a babe. i scarce saw them at first for i separate to live with their father in a cart lodge. the mother we put force into the house with her babe. she have do enough. 
and now good people give me leave to be particular in this case. the plague be bad on the north side of the street for lack a i show em of sunshine. which proceed from the prime mobile or source of life. i speak astrologically. be cleanse and purify in the high degree. the plague be hot too by the corn chandler s where they sell forage to the carter extreme hot in both mill along the river and scatteringly in other place except mark you at the smithy. mark here that all forge and smith shop belong to mar even a corn and meat and wine shop acknowledge venus for their mistress. there be no plague in the smithy at munday s lane. 
munday s lane. you mean our village. i think so when you talk about the two mill cry dan. where do we put the plague stone. i d like to have see it. 
then look at it now say puck and point to the chicken drink trough where they have set their bicycle lamp. it be a rough oblong stone pan rather like a small kitchen sink which phillips who never waste anything have find in a ditch and have use for his precious hen. 
that. say dan and una and star and star and star. mr culpeper make impatient noise in his throat and go on. 
i be at these pain to be particular good people because i would have you follow so far a you may the operation of my mind. that plague which i tell you i have handle outside wallingford in oxfordshire be of a watery nature conformable to the brookish riverine country it breed in and curable a i have say by drench in water. this plague of ours here for all that it flourish along watercourse every soul at both mill die of it could not be so handle. which bring me to a stand. ahem. 
and your sick people in the meantime. puck demand. we persuade them on the north side of the street to lie out in hitheram s field. where the plague have take one or at most two in a house folk would not shift for fear of thief in their absence. they cast away their life to die among their good. 
human nature say puck. i ve see it time and again. how do your sick do in the field. 
they die not near so thick a those that keep within door and even then they die more out of distraction and melancholy than plague. but i confess good people i could not in any sort master the sickness or come at a glimmer of it nature or governance. to be brief i be flat bewilder at the brute malignity of the disease and so do what i should have do before dismiss all conjecture and apprehension that have grow up within me choose a good hour by my almanac clap my vinegar cloth to my face and enter some empty house resign to wait upon the star for guidance. 
at night. be you not horribly frighten. say puck. 
i dare to hope that the god who hath make man so nobly curious to search out his mystery might not destroy a devout seeker. in due time there s a time a i have say for everything under the sun i spy a whitish rat very puff and scabby which sit beneath the dormer of an attic through which shin our lady the moon. whilst i look on him and her she be move towards old cold saturn her ancient ally the rat creep languishingly into her light and there before my eye die. presently his mate or companion come out lay him down beside there and in like fashion die too. late an hour or le to midnight a third rat do e en the same. always choose the moonlight to die in. this throw me into an amaze since a we know the moonlight be favourable not hurtful to the creature of the moon. and saturn be friend with her a you would say be hourly strengthen her evil influence. yet these three rat have be stricken dead in very moonlight. i lean out of the window to see which of heaven s host might be on our side and there behold i good trusty mar very red and heat bustle about his set. i straddle the roof to see good. 
jack marget come up street go to comfort our sick in hitheram s field. a tile slip under my foot. 
say he heavily enough watchman what of the night. 
heart up jack say i. methinks there s one fight for u that like a fool i ve forget all this summer. my mean be naturally the planet mar. 
pray to him then say he. i forget him too this summer. 
he mean god whom he always bitterly accuse himself of have forget up in oxfordshire among the king s men. i call down that he have make amend enough for his sin by his work among the sick but he say he would not believe so till the plague be lift from em. he be at his strength s end more from melancholy than any just cause. i have see this before among priest and overcheerful men. i drench him then and there with a half cup of water which i do not say cure the plague but be excellent against heaviness of the spirit. 
what be they. say dan. 
white brandy rectify camphor cardamom ginger two sort of pepper and aniseed. whew. say puck. water you call em. 
jack cough on it valiantly and go downhill with me. i be for the low mill in the valley to note the aspect of the heaven. my mind have already shadow forth the reason if not the remedy for our trouble but i would not impart it to the vulgar till i be satisfy. that practice may be perfect judgment ought to be sound and to make judgment sound be require an exquisite knowledge. ahem. i leave jack and his lantern among the sick in hitheram s field. he still maintain the prayer of the so call church which be rightly forbid by cromwell. 
you should have tell your cousin at wigsell say puck and jack would have be fin for it and you d have have half the money. how do you come so to fail in your duty nick. 
mr culpeper laugh his only laugh that even and the child jump at the loud neigh of it. 
we be not fearful of men s judgment in those day he answer. now mark me closely good people for what follow will be to you though not to me remarkable. when i reach the empty mill old saturn low down in the house of the fish threaten the sun s rise place. our lady the moon be move towards the help of him. understand i speak astrologically. i look abroad upon the high heaven and i pray the maker of em for guidance. now mar sparkingly withdraw himself below the sky. on the instant of his departure which i note a bright star or vapour leap forth above his head. a though he have heave up his sword. and break all about in fire. the cock crow midnight through the valley and i sit me down by the mill wheel chew spearmint. though that s an herb of venus. and call myself all the ass head in the world. twas plain enough now. 
what be plain. say una. 
the true cause and cure of the plague. mar good fellow have fight for u to the uttermost. faint though he have be in the heaven and this have make me overlook him in my computation he more than any of the other planet have keep the heaven which be to say have be visible some part of each night wellnigh throughout the year. therefore his fierce and cleanse influence war against the moon have stretch out to kill those three rat under my nose and under the nose of their natural mistress the moon. i have know mar lean half across heaven to deal our lady the moon some shrewd blow from under his shield but i have never before see his strength display so effectual. 
i don t understand a bite. do you mean mar kill the rat because he hat the moon. say una. 
that be a plain a the pikestaff with which blagge s men push me forth mr culpeper answer. i ll prove it. why have the plague not break out at the blacksmith s shop in munday s lane. because a i ve show you forge and smithy belong naturally to mar and for his honour s sake mar ud keep em clean from the creature of the moon. but be it like think you that he d come down and rat catch in general for lazy ungrateful mankind. that be work a will horse to death. so then you can see that the mean of the blaze star above him when he set be simply this. destroy and burn the creature of the moon for they be the root of your trouble. and thus have show you a taste of my power good people adieu. 
do mar really say all that. una whisper. 
yes and twice so much a that to any one who have ear to hear. briefly he enlighten me that the plague be spread by the creature of the moon. the moon our lady of ill aspect be the offender. my own poor wit show me that i nick culpeper have the people in my charge god s good providence aid me and no time to lose neither. 
i post up the hill and break into hitheram s field amongst em all at prayer. 
eureka good people. i cry and cast down a dead mill rat which i d find. here s your true enemy reveal at last by the star. 
nay but i m pray say jack. his face be a white a wash silver. 
there s a time for everything under the sun say i. if you would stay the plague take and kill your rat. 
oh mad stark mad. say he and wring his hand. 
a fellow lay in the ditch beside him who bellow that he d a soon die mad hunt rat a be preach to death on a cold fallow. they laugh round him at this but jack marget fall on his knee and very presumptuously petition that he may be appoint to die to save the rest of his people. this be enough to thrust em back into their melancholy. you be an unfaithful shepherd jack i say. take a bat. which we call a stick in sussex. and kill a rat if you die before sunrise. twill save your people. 
aye aye. take a bat and kill a rat he say ten time over like a child which move em to ungovernable motion of that hysterical passion before mention so that they laugh all and at least warm their chill blood at that very hour one o clock or a little after when the fire of life burn low. truly there be a time for everything. and the physician must work with it ahem. or miss his cure. to be brief with you i persuade em sick or sound to have at the whole generation of rat throughout the village. and there s a reason for all thing too though the wise physician need not blab em all. imprimis or firstly the mere sport of it which last ten day draw em most markedly out of their melancholy. i d defy sorrowful job himself to lament or scratch while he s rout rat from a rick. secundo or secondly the vehement act and operation of this chase or war open their skin to generous transpiration more vulgarly sweat em handsomely. and this further draw off their black bile the mother of sickness. thirdly when we come to burn the body of the rat i sprinkle sulphur on the faggot whereby the onlooker be a handsomely suffumigated. this i could not have compass if i have make it a mere physician s business. they d have think it some conjuration. yet more we cleanse lime and burn out a hundred foul poke hole sink slew and corner of unvisited filth in and about the house in the village and by good fortune. mark here that mar be in opposition to venus. burn the corn handler s shop to the grind. mar love not venus. will noakes the saddler drop his lantern on a truss of straw while he be rat hunt there. 
have ye give will any of that gentle cordial of yours nick by any chance. say puck. 
a glass or two glass not more. but a i would say in fine when we have kill the rat i take ash slag and charcoal from the smithy and burn earth from the brickyard. i reason that a brickyard belong to mar. and ram it with iron crowbar into the rat run and bury and beneath all the house floor. the creature of the moon hate all that mar hath use for his own clean end. for example rat bite not iron. 
and how do poor stutter jack endure it. say puck. 
he sweat out his melancholy through his skin and catch a loose cough which i cure with electuaries accord to art. it be noteworthy be i speak among my equal that the venom of the plague translate or turn itself into and evaporate or go away a a very heavy hoarseness and thickness of the head throat and chest. observe from my book which planet govern these portion of man s body and your darkness good people shall be illuminate ahem. none the le the plague qua plague cease and take off. for we only lose three more and two of em have it already on em. from the morning of the day that mar enlighten me by the low mill. he cough almost trumpet triumphantly. 
it be prove he jerk out. i say i have prove my contention which be that by divine astrology and humble search into the veritable cause of thing at the proper time the son of wisdom may combat even the plague. 
h m. puck reply. for my own part i hold that a simple soul. 
mine. simple forsooth. say mr culpeper. 
a very simple soul a high courage temper with sound and stubborn conceit be strong than all the star in their course. so i confess truly that you save the village nick. 
i stubborn. i stiff neck. i ascribe all my poor success under god s good providence to divine astrology. not to me the glory. you talk a that dear weep as jack marget preach before i go back to my work in red lion house spitalfields. 
oh. stammer jack preach do he. they say he lose his stammer in the pulpit. 
and his wit with it. he deliver a most idolatrous discourse when the plague be stay. he take for his text. the wise man that deliver the city. i could have give him a good such a. there be a time for. 
but what make you go to church to hear him. puck interrupt. wail attersole be your lawfully appoint preacher and a dull dog he be. 
mr culpeper wriggle uneasily. 
the vulgar say he the old crone and ahem. the child alison and the others they drag me to the house of rimmon by the hand. i be in two mind to inform on jack for maintain the mummery of the falsely call church which i ll prove to you be found merely on ancient fable. 
stick to your herb and planet say puck laugh. you should have tell the magistrate nick and have jack fin. again why do you neglect your plain duty. 
because because i be kneel and pray and weep with the rest of em at the altar rail. in medicine this be call the hysterical passion. it may be it may be. 
that s a may be say puck. they hear him turn the hay. why your hay be half hedge brishings he say. you don t expect a horse to thrive on oak and ash and thorn leaf do you. 
ping ping ping go the bicycle bell round the corner. nurse be come back from the mill. 
be it all right. una call. 
all quite right nurse call back. they re to be christen next sunday. 
what. what. they both lean forward across the half door. it could not have be properly fasten for it open and tilt them out with hay and leaf stick all over them. 
come on. we must get those two twin name say una and they charge uphill shout over the hedge till nurse slow up and tell them. when they return old middenboro have get out of his stall and they spend a lively ten minute chase him in again by starlight. 
our father of old. 
excellent herb have our father of old excellent herb to ease their pain alexander and marigold eyebright orris and elecampane basil rocket valerian rue. almost sing themselves they run. vervain dittany call me to you cowslip melilot rise of the sun. anything green that grow out of the mould be an excellent herb to our father of old. 
wonderful tale have our father of old wonderful tale of the herb and the star the sun be lord of the marigold basil and rocket belong to mar. pat a a sum in division it go. every plant have a star bespeak. who but venus should govern the rise. who but jupiter own the oak. simply and gravely the fact be tell in the wonderful book of our father of old. 
wonderful little when all be say wonderful little our father know. half their remedy cure you dead most of their teach be quite untrue look at the star when a patient be ill. dirt ha nothing to do with disease. bleed and blister a much a you will blister and bleed him a oft a you please. whence enormous and manifold error be make by our father of old. 
yet when the sickness be sore in the land and neither planet nor herb assuage they take their life in their lancet hand and oh what a wonderful war they wag. yes when the cross be chalk on the door yes when the terrible dead cart roll excellent courage our father bore excellent heart have our father of old. not too learn but nobly bold into the fight go our father of old. 
if it be certain a galen say and sage hippocrates hold a much that those afflict by doubt and dismay be mightily help by a dead man s touch then be good to u star above. then be good to u herb below. we be afflict by what we can prove. we be distract by what we know so ah so. down from your heaven or up from your mould send u the heart of our father of old. 
simple simon. 
the thousandth man. 
one man in a thousand solomon say will stick more close than a brother. and it s worth while seek him half your day if you find him before the other. nine hundred and ninety nine depend on what the world see in you but the thousandth man will stand your friend with the whole round world agin you. 
ti neither promise nor prayer nor show will settle the find for ee. nine hundred and ninety nine of em go by your look or your act or your glory. but if he find you and you find him the rest of the world don t matter. for the thousandth man will sink or swim with you in any water. 
you can use his purse with no more shame than he us yours for his spending. and laugh and mention it just the same a though there have be no lending. nine hundred and ninety nine of em call for silver and gold in their dealing. but the thousandth man he s worth em all because you can show him your feeling. 
his wrong s your wrong and his right s your right in season or out of season. stand up and back it in all men s sight with that for your only reason. nine hundred and ninety nine can t bide the shame or mock or laughter but the thousandth man will stand by your side to the gallows foot and after. 
simple simon. 
cattiwow come down the steep lane with his five horse timber tug. he stop by the wood lump at the back gate to take off the brake. his real name be brabon but the first time the child meet him year and year ago he tell them he be cart wood and it sound so exactly like cattiwow that they never call him anything else. 
hi. una shout from the top of the wood lump where they have be watch the lane. what be you do. why weren t we tell. 
they ve just send for me cattiwow answer. there s a middlin big log stack in the dirt at rabbit shaw and he flick his whip back along the line so they ve send for u all. 
dan and una throw themselves off the wood lump almost under black sailor s nose. cattiwow never let them ride the big beam that make the body of the timber tug but they hang on behind while their teeth thuttered. 
the wood road beyond the brook climb at once into the wood and you see all the horse back rise one above another like move stair. cattiwow stride ahead in his sackcloth woodman s petticoat belt at the waist with a leather strap. and when he turn and grin his red lip show under his sackcloth colour beard. his cap be sackcloth too with a flap behind to keep twig and bark out of his neck. he navigate the tug among pool of heather water that splash in their face and through clump of young birch that slash at their leg and when they hit an old toadstooled stump they never know whether it would give way in shower of rotten wood or jar them back again. 
at the top of rabbit shaw half a dozen men and a team of horse stand round a forty foot oak log in a muddy hollow. the grind about be poach and stoached with slide hoofmarks and a wave of dirt be drive up in front of the butt. 
what do you want to bury her for this way. say cattiwow. he take his broad axe and go up the log tap it. 
she s stick fast say bunny lewknor who manage the other team. 
cattiwow unfasten the five wise horse from the tug. they cock their ear forward look and shake themselves. 
i believe sailor know dan whisper to una. 
he do say a man behind them. he be dress in flour sack like the others and he lean on his broad axe but the child who know all the wood gang know he be a strange. in his size and oily hairiness he might have be bunny lewknor s brother except that his brown eye be a soft a a spaniel s and his round black beard begin close up under them remind una of the walrus in the walrus and the carpenter. 
don t he justabout know. he say shyly and shift from one foot to the other. 
yes. what cattiwow can t get out of the wood must have root grow to her. dan have hear old hobden say this a few day before. 
at that minute puck prance up pick his way through the pool of black water in the ling. 
look out. cry una jump forward. he ll see you puck. 
me and mu robin be pretty middlin well acquaint the man answer with a smile that make them forget all about walrus. 
this be simon cheyneys puck begin and clear his throat. shipbuilder of rye port. burgess of the say town and the only. 
oh look. look ye. that s a know one say the man. 
cattiwow have fasten his team to the thin end of the log and be move them about with his whip till they stand at right angle to it head downhill. then he grunt. the horse take the strain begin with sailor next the log like a tug of war team and drop almost to their knee. the log shift a nail s breadth in the cling dirt with the noise of a giant s kiss. 
you re get her. simon cheyneys slap his knee. hing on. hing on lad or she ll master ye. ah. 
sailor s leave hind hoof have slip on a heather tuft. one of the men whip off his sack apron and spread it down. they saw sailor feel for it and recover. still the log hang and the team grunt in despair. 
hai. shout cattiwow and bring his dreadful whip twice across sailor s loin with the crack of a shoot gun. the horse almost scream a he pull that extra last ounce which he do not know be in him. the thin end of the log leave the dirt and rasp on dry gravel. the butt grind round like a buffalo in his wallow. quick a an axe cut lewknor snap on his five horse and slide trample jingle and snort they have the whole thing out on the heather. 
dat s the very first time i ve know you lay into sailor to hurt him say lewknor. 
it be say cattiwow and pass his hand over the two wheal. but i d ha lay my own brother open at that pinch. now we ll twitch her down the hill a piece she lie just about right and get her home by the low road. my team ll do it bunny. you bring the tug along. mind out. 
he speak to the horse who tighten the chain. the great log half roll over and slowly draw itself out of sight downhill follow by the wood gang and the timber tug. in half a minute there be nothing to see but the desert hollow of the tear up dirt the birch undergrowth still shake and the water drain back into the hoof print. 
ye hear him. simon cheyneys ask. he cherish his horse but he d ha lay him open in that pinch. 
not for his own advantage say puck quickly. twas only to shift the log. 
i reckon every man bear of woman ha his log to shift in the world if so be you re hintin at any o frankie s do. he never hit beyond reason or without reason say simon. 
i never say a word against frankie puck retort with a wink at the child. an if i do do it lie in your mouth to contest my say so see how you. 
why don t it lie in my mouth see i be the first which know frankie for all he be. the burly sack clothe man puff down at cool little puck. 
yes and the first which set out to poison him frankie on the high sea. 
simon s angry face change to a sheepish grin. he waggle his immense hand but puck stand off and laugh mercilessly. 
but let me tell you mu robin he plead. 
i ve hear the tale. tell the child here. look dan. look una. puck s straight brown finger level like an arrow. there s the only man that ever try to poison sir francis drake. 
oh mu robin. tidn t fair. you ve the vantage of u all in your upbringin s by hundred o year. stand to nature you know all the tale against every one. 
he turn his soft eye so helplessly on una that she cry stop rag him puck. you know he didn t really. 
i do. but why be you so sure little maid. because because he doesn t look like it say una stoutly. 
i thank you say simon to una. i i be always trustable like with child if you let me alone you double handful o mischief. he pretend to heave up his axe on puck. and then his shyness overtake him afresh. 
where do you know sir francis drake. say dan not like be call a child. 
at rye port to be sure say simon and see dan s bewilderment repeat it. 
yes but look here say dan. drake he be a devon man. the song say so. 
and rule the devon sea una go on. that s what i be think if you don t mind. 
simon cheyneys seem to mind very much indeed for he swell in silence while puck laugh. 
hutt. he burst out at last i ve hear that talk too. if you listen to them west country folk you ll listen to a pack o lie. i believe frankie be bear somewhere out west among the shire but his father have to run for it when frankie be a baby because the neighbour be wishful to kill him d ye see. he run to chatham old parson drake do an frankie be bring up in a old hulk of a ship moor in the medway river same a it might ha be the rother. bring up at sea you might say before he could walk on land nigh chatham in kent. and ain t kent back door to sussex. and don t that make frankie sussex. o course it do. devon man. bah. those west country boat they re always fishin in other folk water. 
i beg your pardon say dan. i m sorry. 
no call to be sorry. you ve be mislead. i meet frankie at rye port when my uncle that be the shipbuilder there push me off his wharf edge on to frankie s ship. frankie have put in from chatham with his rudder splutted and a man s arm moon s that ud be break at the tiller. take this boy aboard an drown him say my uncle and i ll mend your rudder piece for love. 
what do your uncle want you drown for. say una. 
that be only his fashion of say so same a mu robin. i d a foolishness in my head that ship could be build out of iron. yes iron ship. i d make me a liddle toy one of iron plate beat out thin and she float a wonder. but my uncle bein a burgess of rye and a shipbuilder he prenticed me to frankie in the fetchin trade to cure this foolishness. 
what be the fetchin trade. dan interrupt. 
fetchin poor flemishers and dutchman out o the low country into england. the king o spain d ye see he be burnin em in those part for to make em papishers so frankie he fetch em away to our part and a risky trade it be. his master wouldn t never touch it while he live but he leave his ship to frankie when he die and frankie turn her into this fetchin trade. outrageous cruel hard work on besom black night bulting back and forth off they dutch road with shoal on all side and have to hark out for the frish frish frish like of a spanish galliwopses oar creepin up on ye. frankie ud have the tiller and moon he d peer forth at the bow our lantern under his skirt till the boat we be lookin for ud blurt up out o the dark and we d lay hold and haul aboard whoever twas man woman or babe an round we d go again the wind bewling like a kite in our riggin s and they d drop into the hold and praise god for happy deliverance till they be all sick. 
i have nigh a year at it an we must have fetch off oh a hundred pore folk i reckon. outrageous bold too frankie grow to be. outrageous cunnin he be. once we be a near a nothin nip by a tall ship off tergoes sand in a snowstorm. she have the wind of u and spoon straight before it shootin all bow gun. frankie flee inshore smack for the beach till he be atop of the first breaker. then he heave his anchor out which nigh tear our bow off but it twitch u round end for end into the wind d ye see an we claw off them sand like a drink man rubbin along a tavern bench. when we could see the spanish be lay flat along in the breaker with the snow whiten on his wet belly. he think he could go where frankie go. 
what happen to the crew. say una. 
we didn t stop simon answer. there be a very liddle new baby in our hold and the mother she want to get to some dry bed middlin quick. we runned into dover and say nothing. 
be sir francis drake very much please. heart alive maid he d no head to his name in those day. he be just a outrageous valiant crop haired tutt mouth boy roarin up an down the narrer sea with his beard not yet quilt out. he make a laugh stock of everything all day and he d hold our life in the bight of his arm all the besom black night among they dutch sand. and we d ha jump overside to behove him any one time all of u. 
then why do you try to poison him. una ask wickedly and simon hang his head like a shy child. 
oh that be when he set me to make a pudden for because our cook be hurt. i do my uttermost but she all fetch adrift like in the bag an the more i biled the bit of her the le she favour any fashion o pudden. moon he chaw and chammed his piece and frankie chaw and chammed his n and no word to it he take me by the ear an walk me out over the bow end an him an moon heave the pudden at me on the bowsprit gub by gub something cruel hard. simon rub his hairy cheek. 
nex time you bring me anything say frankie you bring me cannon shoot an i ll know what i m get. but a for poisonin he stop the child laugh so. 
of course you didn t say una. oh simon we do like you. 
i be always likeable with child. his smile crinkle up through the hair round his eye. simple simon they use to call me through our yard gate. 
do sir francis mock you. dan ask. 
ah no. he be gentle bear. laugh he do he be always laugh but not so a to hurt a feather. an i love en. i love en before england know en or queen be she break his heart. 
but he hadn t really do anything when you know him have he. una insist. armada and those thing i mean. 
simon point to the scar and scrape leave by cattiwow s great log. you tell me that that good ship s timber never do nothing against wind and weather since her up spring and i ll confess ye that young frankie never do nothing neither. nothing. he adventure and suffer and make shift on they dutch sand a much in any one month a ever he have occasion for to do in a half year on the high sea afterwards. an what be his tool. a coaster boat a liddle box o walty plankin an some few fathom feeble rope hold together an make able by him sole. he draw our spirit up in our body same a a chimney towel draw a fire. twas in him and it come out all time and shape. i wonder do he ever magine what he be go to be. tell himself story about it. say dan with a flush. 
i expect so. we mostly do even when we re grow. but bein frankie he take good care to find out beforehand what his fortune might be. have i rightly ought to tell em this piece. simon turn to puck who nod. 
my mother she be just a fair woman but my aunt her sister she have gift by inheritance lay up in her simon begin. 
oh that ll never do cry puck for the child star blankly. do you remember what robin promise to the widow whitgift so long a her blood and get last. [see dymchurch flit in puck of pook s hill. ] yes. there be always to be one of them that could see farther through a millstone than most dan answer promptly. 
well simon s aunt s mother say puck slowly marry the widow s blind son on the marsh and simon s aunt be the one choose to see farthest through millstone. do you understand. 
that be what i be gettin at say simon but you re so desperate quick. my aunt she know what be comin to people. my uncle be a burgess of rye he count all such thing odious and my aunt she couldn t be get to practise her gift hardly at all because it hurt her head for a week after ward. but when frankie hear she have em he be all for nothin till she foretell on him till she look in his hand to tell his fortune d ye see. one time we be at rye she come aboard with my other shirt and some apple and he fair beazled the life out of her about it. 
oh you ll be twice wed and die childless she say and push his hand away. 
that s the woman s part he say. what ll come to me to me. an he thrust it back under her nose. 
gold gold past belief or count she say. let go o me lad. 
sink the gold. he say. what ll i do mother. he coax her like no woman could well withstand. i ve see him with em even when they be sea sick. 
if you will have it she say at last you shall have it. you ll do a many thing and eat and drink with a dead man beyond the world s end will be the least of them. for you ll open a road from the east unto the west and back again and you ll bury your heart with your best friend by that road side and the road you open none shall shut so long a you re let lie quiet in your grave. 
[the old lady s prophecy be in a fair way to come true for now the panama canal be finish one end of it open into the very bay where sir francis drake be bury. so ship be take through the canal and the road round cape horn which sir francis open be very little use. ]. 
and if i m not. he say. 
why then she say sim s iron ship will be sail on dry land. now ha do with this foolishness. where s sim s shirt. 
he couldn t fetch no more out of her and when we come up from the cabin he stand mazed like by the tiller play with a apple. my sorrow. say my aunt. d ye see that. the great world lie in his hand liddle and round like a apple. 
why ti one you give him i say. 
to be sure she say. ti just a apple and she go ashore with her hand to her head. it always hurt her to show her gift. 
him and me puzzle over that talk plenty. it stick in his mind quite extravagant. the very next time we slip out for some fetchin trade we meet mu stenning s boat over by calais sand. and he warn u that the spanishers have shut down all their dutch port against u english and their galliwopses be out pick up our boat like fly off hog back. mu stenning he run for shoreham but frankie hold on a piece knowin that mu stenning be jealous of our good trade. over by dunkirk a great gor belly spanish with the cross on his sail come rampin at u. we leave him. we leave him all they bare sea to conquest in. 
look like this road be go to be shut pretty soon say frankie humourin her at the tiller. i ll have to open that other one your aunt foretell of. 
the spanish s crowdin down on u middlin quick i say. no odds say frankie he ll have the inshore tide against him. do your aunt say i be to be quiet in my grave for ever. 
till my iron ship sail dry land i say. 
that s foolishness he say. who care where frankie drake make a hole in the water now or twenty year from now. 
the spanish keep muckin on more and more canvas. i tell him so. 
he s feelin the tide be all he say. if he be among tergoes sand with this wind we d be pick his bone proper. i d give my heart to have all their tall ship there some night before a north gale and me to windward. there d be gold in my hand then. do your aunt say she saw the world settin in my hand sim. 
yes but twas a apple say i and he laugh like he always do at me. do you ever feel mind to jump overside and be do with everything. he ask after a while. 
no. what water come aboard be too wet a ti i say. the spanish s go about. 
i tell you say he never look back. he ll give u the pope s bless a he swing. come down off that rail. there s no knowin where stray shot may hit. so i come down off the rail and lean against it and the spanish he ruffle round in the wind and his port lid open all red inside. 
now what ll happen to my road if they don t let me lie quiet in my grave. he say. doe your aunt mean there s two road to be find and keep open or what doe she mean. i don t like that talk about t other road. d you believe in your iron ship sim. 
he know i do so i only nod and he nod back again. anybody but me ud call you a fool sim he say. lie down. here come the pope s bless. 
the spanish give u his broadside a he go about. they all fell short except one that smack smooth hit the rail behind my back an i felt most win erful cold. 
be you hit anywhere to signify. he say. come over to me. 
o lord mu drake i say my leg win t move and that be the last i speak for month. 
why. what have happen. cry dan and una together. 
the rail have jar me in here like. simon reach behind him clumsily. from my shoulder down i didn t act no shape. frankie carry me piggyback to my aunt s house and i lay bed rid and tongue tie while she rub me day and night month in and month out. she have faith in rub with the hand. p rap she put some of her gift into it too. last of all something loose itself in my pore back and lo. i be whole restore again but kitten feeble. 
where s frankie. i say think i d be a longish while abed. 
down wind amongst the don month ago say my aunt. 
when can i go after en. i say. 
your duty s to your town and trade now say she. your uncle he die last michaelmas and he ve leave you and me the yard. so no more iron ship mind ye. 
what. i say. and you the only one that beleft in em. 
maybe i do still she say but i m a woman before i m a whitgift and wooden ship be what england need u to build. i lay on ye to do so. 
that s why i ve never teched iron since that day not to build a toy ship of. i ve never even draw a draft of one for my pleasure of evening. simon smile down on them all. whitgift blood be terrible resolute on the she side say puck. 
didn t you ever see sir francis drake again. dan ask. 
with one thing and another and my be make a burgess of rye i never clap eye on him for the next twenty year. oh i have the news of his mighty do the world over. they be the very same bold cunning shift and pass he d work with beforetimes off they dutch sand but naturally folk take more note of them. when queen be make him knight he send my aunt a dry orange stuff with spicery to smell to. she cry outrageous on it. she blame herself for her foretelling have set him on his win erful road. but i reckon he d ha go that way all withstand. curious how close she foretell it. the world in his hand like an apple an he bury his best friend mu doughty. 
never mind for mu doughty puck interrupt. tell u where you meet sir francis next. 
oh ha. that be the year i be make a burgess of rye the same year which king philip send his ship to take england without frankie s leave. 
the armada. say dan contentedly. i be hop that would come. 
i know frankie would never let em smell london smoke but plenty good men in rye be two three mind about the upshot. twas the noise of the gun fire tarrified u. the wind favour it our way from off behind the isle of wight. it make a mutter like which grow and grow and by the end of a week woman be shruckin in the street. then they come slidderin past fairlight in a great smoky pat vambrished with red gun fire and our ship flyin forth and duckin in again. the smoke pat sliddered over to the french shore so i know frankie be edgin the spanishers toward they dutch sand where he be master. i say to my aunt the smoke s thinnin out. i lay frankie s just about scrapin his hold for a few last round shoot. ti time for me to go. 
never in them clothe she say. do on the doublet i buy you to be make burgess in and don t you shame this day. 
so i muck it on and my chain and my stiffed dutch breech and all. 
i be comin too she say from her chamber and forth she come pavisandin like a peacock stuff ruff stomacher and all. she be a notable woman. 
but how do you go. you haven t tell u say una. 
in my own ship but half share be my aunt s. in the antony of rye to be sure. and not empty hand. i d be loadin her for three day with the pick of our yard. we be ballast on cannon shoot of all three size. and iron rod and strap for his carpenter. and a nice passel of clean three inch oak plank and hide breech rope for his cannon and gubs of good oakum and bolt o canvas and all the sound rope in the yard. what else could i ha do. i know what he d need most after a week s such work. i m a shipbuilder little maid. 
we d a fair slant o wind off dungeness and we creep on till it fell light air and puff out. the spanishers be all in a huddle over by calais and our ship be straw about mend emselves like dog lickin bite. now and then a spanish would fire from a low port and the ball ud troll across the flat swell but both side be finish fightin for that tide. 
the first ship we foreslowed on her breastwork be crush in an men be shorin em up. she say nothing. the next be a black pinnace his pump clackin middle quick and he say nothing. but the third mend shoot hole he speak out plenty. i ask him where mu drake might be and a shiny suit man on the poop look down into u and saw what we carry. 
lay alongside you. he say. we ll take that all. 
ti for mu drake i say keep away l his size should lee the wind out of my sail. 
hi. ho. hither. we re lord high admiral of england. come alongside or we ll hang ye he say. 
twas none of my affair who he be if he wasn t frankie and while he talk so hot i slip behind a green paint ship with her top side splinter. we be all in the middest of em then. 
hi. hoi. the green ship say. come alongside honest man and i ll buy your load. i m fenner that fight the seven portugal clean out of shoot or bullet. frankie know me. 
ay but i don t i say and i slack nothing. 
he be a masterpiece. seein i be for goin on he hail a bridport hoy beyond u and shout george. oh george. wing that duck. he s fat. an true a we re all here that squatty bridport boat round to acrost our bow intendin to stop u by mean o shoot. 
my aunt look over our rail. george she say you finish with your enemy afore you begin on your friend. 
him that be lay the liddle swivel gun at u sweep off his hat an call her queen be and ask if she be sell liquor to pore dry sailor. my aunt answer him quite a piece. she be a notable woman. 
then he come up his long pennant trail overside his waistcloth and net tear all to piece where the spanishers have grapple and his side black smear with their gun blast like candle smoke in a bottle. we hook on to a low port and hang. 
oh mu drake. mu drake. i call up. 
he stand on the great anchor cathead his shirt open to the middle and his face shin like the sun. 
why sim. he say. just like that after twenty year. sim he say what bring you. 
pudden i say not know whether to laugh or cry. 
you tell me to bring cannon shoot next time an i ve bring em. 
he saw we have. he rip out a fathom and a half o brimstone spanish and he swing down on our rail and he kiss me before all his fine young captain. his men be swarm out of the low port ready to unload u. when he saw how i d consider all his likely want he kiss me again. 
here s a friend that sticketh close than a brother. he say. mistress he say to my aunt all you foretell on me be true. i ve open that road from the east to the west and i ve bury my heart beside it. 
i know she say. that s why i be come. 
but ye never foretell this. he point to both they great fleet. 
this don t seem to me to make much odds compare to what happen to a man she say. do it. 
certain sure a man forget to remember when he s proper muck up with work. sim he say to me we must shift every live spanish round dunkirk corner on to our dutch sand before morning. the wind ll come out of the north after this calm same a it use and then they re our meat. 
amen say i. i ve bring you what i could scutchel up of odds and end. be you hit anywhere to signify. 
oh our folk ll attend to all that when we ve time he say. he turn to talk to my aunt while his men fly the stuff out of our hold. i think i saw old moon amongst em but he be too busy to more than nod like. yet the spanishers be go to prayer with their bell and candle before we d clean out the antony. twenty two ton o useful stuff i d fetch him. now sim say my aunt no more devour of mu drake s time. he s send u home in the bridport hoy. i want to speak to them young springalds again. 
but here s our ship all ready and sweep i say. 
swep an garnish say frankie. i m go to fill her with devil in the liken o pitch and sulphur. we must shift the don round dunkirk corner and if shoot can t do it we ll send down fireships. 
i ve give him my share of the antony say my aunt. what do you reckon to do about yours. 
she offer it say frankie laugh. 
she wouldn t have if i d overhear her i say. because i d have offer my share first. then i tell him how the antony s sail be best trim to drive before the wind and see he be full of occupation we go acrost to that bridport hoy and leave him. 
but frankie be gentle bear d ye see and that sort they never overlook any folk due. 
when the hoy pass under his stern he stand bare head on the poop same a if my aunt have be his queen and his musicianers play mary ambree on their silver trumpet quite a long while. heart alive little maid. i never mean to make you look sorrowful. 
bunny lewknor in his sackcloth petticoat burst through the birch scrub wipe his forehead. 
we ve get the stick to right now. she ve be a whole hatful o trouble. you come an ride her home mu dan and miss una. 
they find the proud wood gang at the foot of the slope with the log double chain on the tug. 
cattiwow what be you go to do with it. say dan a they straddle the thin part. 
she s go down to rye to make a keel for a lowestoft fishin boat i ve hear. hold tight. 
cattiwow crack his whip and the great log dip and tilt and lean and dip again exactly like a stately ship upon the high sea. 
frankie s trade. 
old horn to all atlantic say. a hay o. to me o. now where do frankie learn his trade. for he run me down with a three reef main le. all round the horn. 
atlantic answer. not from me. you d good ask the cold north sea for he run me down under all plain canvas. all round the horn. 
the north sea answer. he s my man for he come to me when he begin frankie drake in an open coaster. all round the sand. 
i catch him young and i use him sore so you never shall startle frankie more without capsize earth and her water. all round the sand. 
i do not favour him at all i make him pull and i make him haul and stand his trick with the common sailor. all round the sand. 
i freeze him stiff and i fog him blind and kick him home with his road to find by what he could see of a three day snow storm. all round the sand. 
i learn him his trade o winter night twixt mardyk fort and dunkirk light on a five knot tide with the fort a fire. all round the sand. 
before his beard begin to shoot i show him the length of the spaniard s foot and i reckon he clap the boot on it late. all round the sand. if there s a risk which you can make that s bad than he be use to take nigh every week in the way of his business. all round the sand. 
if there s a trick that you can try which he hasn t meet in time go by not once or twice but ten time over. all round the sand. 
if you can teach him aught that s new. a hay o. to me o. i ll give you bruges and niewport too and the ten tall church that stand between em. storm along my gallant captain. all round the horn. 
the tree of justice. 
the ballad of minepit shaw. 
about the time that tavern shut and men can buy no beer two lad go up by the keeper hut to steal lord pelham s deer. 
night and the liquor be in their head they laugh and talk no bound till they wake the keeper on their bed and the keeper loose the hound. 
they have kill a hart they have kill a hind ready to carry away when they hear a whimper down the wind and they hear a bloodhound bay. 
they take and run across the fern their crossbow in their hand till they meet a man with a green lantern that call and bid em stand. 
what be you do o flesh and blood and what s your foolish will that you must break into minepit wood and wake the folk of the hill. 
oh we ve break into lord pelham s park and kill lord pelham s deer and if ever you hear a little dog bark you ll know why we come here. 
we ask you let u go our way a fast a we can flee for if ever you hear a bloodhound bay you ll know how press we be. 
oh lay your crossbow on the bank and drop the knife from your hand and though the hound be at your flank i ll save you where you stand. they lay their crossbow on the bank they throw their knife in the wood and the grind before them open and sink and save em where they stand. oh what s the roar in our ear that strike u well nigh dumb. oh that be just how thing appear accord a they come. 
what be the star before our eye that strike u well nigh blind. oh that be just how thing arise accord a you find. 
and why s our bed so hard to the bone except where it s cold. oh that s because it be precious stone except where ti gold. 
think it over a you stand for i tell you without fail if you haven t get into fairyland you re not in lewes gaol. 
all night long they think of it and come the dawn they saw they d tumble into a great old pit at the bottom of minepit shaw. 
and the keeper hound have follow em close and break her neck in the fall. so they pick up their knife and their cross bow and bury the dog. that s all. 
but whether the man be a poacher too or a pharisee so bold i reckon there s more thing tell than be true and more thing true than be tell. 
the tree of justice. 
it be a warm dark winter day with the sou west wind sing through dallington forest and the wood below the beacon. the child set out after dinner to find old hobden who have a three month job in the rough at the back of pound s wood. he have promise to get them a dormouse in it nest. the bright leaf still cling to the beech coppice. the long chestnut leaf lay orange on the grind and the ride be speckle with scarlet lipped sprout acorn. they work their way by their own short cut to the edge of pound s wood and hear a horse s foot just a they come to the beech where ridley the keeper hang up the vermin. the poor little fluffy body dangle from the branch some perfectly good but most of them dry to twist strip. 
three more owl say dan count. two stoat four jay and a kestrel. that s ten since last week. ridley s a beast. 
in my time this sort of tree bore heavy fruit. sir richard dalyngridge rein up his grey horse swallow in the ride behind them. [this be the norman knight they meet the year before in puck of pook s hill. see young men at the manor the knight of the joyous venture and old men at pevensey in that book. ] what play do you make. he ask. 
nothing sir. we re look for old hobden dan reply. he promise to get u a sleeper. 
sleeper. a dormeuse do you say. 
yes a dormouse sir. i understand. i pass a woodman on the low ground. come. he wheel up the ride again and point through an open to the patch of beech stub chestnut hazel and birch that old hobden would turn into firewood hop pole pea bough and house faggot before spring. the old man be a busy a a beaver. 
something laugh beneath a thorn and puck steal out his finger on his lip. 
look. he whisper. along between the spindle tree. ridley ha be there this half hour. 
the child follow his point and saw ridley the keeper in an old dry ditch watch hobden a a cat watch a mouse. 
huhh. cry una. hobden always tend to his wire before breakfast. he put his rabbit into the faggot he s allow to take home. he ll tell u about em tomorrow. 
we have the same breed in my day sir richard reply and move off quietly puck at his bridle the child on either side between the close trim beech stuff. 
what do you do to them. say dan a they repassed ridley s terrible tree. 
that. sir richard jerk his head toward the dangle owl. 
not he. say puck. there be never enough brute norman in you to hang a man for take a buck. 
i i cannot abide to hear their widow screech. but why be i on horseback while you be afoot. he dismount lightly tap swallow on the chest so that the wise thing back instead of turn in the narrow ride and put himself at the head of the little procession. he walk a though all the wood belong to him. i have often tell my friend he go on that red william the king be not the only norman find dead in a forest while he hunt. 
d you mean william rufus. say dan. 
yes say puck kick a clump of red toad stool off a dead log. 
for example there be a knight new from normandy sir richard go on to whom henry our king grant a manor in kent near by. he choose to hang his fore s son the day before a deer hunt that he give to pleasure the king. 
now when would that be. say puck and scratch an ear thoughtfully. 
the summer of the year king henry break his brother robert of normandy at tenchebrai fight. our ship be even then at pevensey load for the war. 
what happen to the knight. dan ask. 
they find him pin to an ash three arrow through his leather coat. i should have wear mail that day. 
and do you see him all bloody. dan continue. 
nay i be with de aquila at pevensey count horseshoe and arrow sheaf and ale barrel into the hold of the ship. the army only wait for our king to lead them against robert in normandy but he send word to de aquila that he would hunt with him here before he set out for france. 
why do the king want to hunt so particularly. una demand. 
if he have go straight to france after the kentish knight be kill men would have say he fear be slay like the knight. it be his duty to show himself debonair to his english people a it be de aquila s duty to see that he take no harm while he do it but it be a great burden. de aquila hugh and i cease work on the ship and scour all the honour of the eagle all de aquila s land to make a fit and above all a safe sport for our king. look. 
the ride twist and come out on the top of pound s hill wood. sir richard point to the swell of beautiful dapple dallington that show like a woodcock s breast up the valley. ye know the forest. say he. 
you ought to see the bluebell there in spring. say una. i have see say sir richard gaze and stretch out his hand. hugh s work and mine be first to move the deer gently from all part into dallington yonder and there to hold them till the king come. next we must choose some three hundred beater to drive the deer to the stand within bowshot of the king. here be our trouble. in the mellay of a deer drive a saxon peasant and a norman king may come over close to each other. the conquer do not love their conqueror all at once. so we need sure men for whom their village or kindred would answer in life cattle and land if any harm come to the king. ye see. 
if one of the beater shoot the king say puck sir richard want to be able to punish that man s village. then the village would take care to send a good man. 
so. so it be. but l our work should be too easy the king have do such a dread justice over at salehurst for the kill of the kentish knight. twenty six men he hang a i hear. that our folk be half mad with fear before we begin. it be easy to dig out a badger go to earth than a saxon go dumb sullen. and atop of their misery the old rumour wake that harold the saxon be alive and would bring them deliverance from u norman. this ha happen every autumn since santlache fight. 
but king harold be kill at hastings say una. 
so it be say and so it be believe by u norman but our saxon always believe he would come again. that rumour do not make our work any more easy. 
sir richard stride on down the far slope of the wood where the tree thin out. it be fascinate to watch how he manage his long spur among the lump of blacken ling. 
but we do it. he say. after all a woman be a good a a man to beat the wood and the mere word that deer be afoot make cripple and crone young again. de aquila laugh when hugh tell him over the list of beater. half be woman. and many of the rest be clerk saxon and norman priest. 
hugh and i have not time to laugh for eight day till de aquila a lord of pevensey meet our king and lead him to the first shoot stand by the mill on the edge of the forest. hugh and i it be no work for hot head or heavy hand lay with our beater on the skirt of dallington to watch both them and the deer. when de aquila s great horn blow we go forward a line half a league long. oh to see the fat clerk their gown tuck up puff and roar and the sober miller dust the under growth with their stave. and like a not between them a saxon wench hand in hand with her man shrill like a kite a she run and leap high through the fern all for joy of the sport. ah. how. ah. how. how ah. sa how ah. puck bellow without warn and swallow bound forward ear cock and nostril crack. 
hal lal lal lal la hai ie. sir richard answer in a high clear shout. 
the two voice join in swoop circle of sound and a heron rise out of a red osier bed below them circle a though he keep time to the outcry. swallow quiver and swish his glorious tail. they stop together on the same note. 
a hoarse shout answer them across the bare wood. 
that s old hobden say una. 
small blame to him. it be in his blood say puck. do your beater cry so sir richard. 
my faith they forget all else. steady swallow steady. they forget where the king and his people wait to shoot. they follow the deer to the very edge of the open till the first flight of wild arrow from the stand fly fair over them. 
i cry ware shoot. ware shoot. and a knot of young knight new from normandy that have stray away from the grand stand turn about and in mere sport loose off at our line shout. ware santlache arrow. ware santlache arrow. a jest i grant you but too sharp. one of our beater answer in saxon. ware new forest arrow. ware red william s arrow. so i judge it time to end the jest and when the boy saw my old mail gown. for to shoot with stranger i count the same a war. they cease shoot. so that be smooth over and we give our beater ale to wash down their anger. they be excusable. we they have sweat to show our guest good sport and our reward be a flight of hunt arrow which no man love and bad a churl s jibe over hard fight fair lose hastings fight. so before the next beat hugh and i assemble and call the beater over by name to steady them. the great part we know but among the netherfield men i saw an old old man in the dress of a pilgrim. 
the clerk of netherfield say he be well know by repute for twenty year a a witless man that journey without rest to all the shrine of england. the old man sit saxon fashion head between fist. we norman rest the chin on the leave palm. who answer for him. say i. if he fail in his duty who will pay his fine. 
who will pay my fine. the pilgrim say. i have ask that of all the saint in england these forty year le three month and nine day. they have not answer. when he lift his thin face i saw he be one eye and frail a a rush. nay but father i say to whom hast thou commend thyself. he shake his head so i speak in saxon. whose man art thou. 
i think i have a write from rahere the king s jester say he after a while. i be a i suppose rahere s man. 
he pull a write from his scrip and hugh come up read it. 
it set out that the pilgrim be rahere s man and that rahere be the king s jester. there be latin writ at the back. 
what a plague conjuration s here. say hugh turn it over. pum quum sum oc occ. magic. 
black magic say the clerk of netherfield. he have be a monk at battle. they say rahere be more of a priest than a fool and more of a wizard than either. here s rahere s name writ and there s rahere s red cockscomb mark draw below for such a cannot read. he look slyly at me. 
then read it say i and show thy learn. he be a vain little man and he give it u after much mouth. 
the charm which i think be from virgilius the sorcerer say. when thou art once dead and minos. which be a heathen judge. ha doom thee neither cunning nor speechcraft nor good work will restore thee. a terrible thing. it deny any mercy to a man s soul. 
doe it serve. say the pilgrim pluck at hugh s cloak. oh man of the king s blood doe it cover me. 
hugh be of earl godwin s blood and all sussex know it though no saxon dare call him kingly in a norman s hear. there can be but one king. 
it serf say hugh. but the day will be long and hot. good rest here. we go forward now. 
no i will keep with thee my kinsman he answer like a child. he be indeed childish through great age. 
the line have not move a bowshot when de aquila s great horn blow for a halt and soon young fulke our false fulke s son yes the imp that light the straw in pevensey castle [see old men at pevensey in puck of pook s hill. ] come thunder up a woodway. 
uncle say he. though he be a man grow he call me uncle. those young norman fool who shoot at you this morn be say that your beater cry treason against the king. it ha come to harry s long ear and he bid you give account of it. there be heavy fine in his eye but i be with you to the hilt uncle. when the boy have flee back hugh say to me. it be rahere s witless man that cry ware red william s arrow. i hear him and so do the clerk of netherfield. 
then rahere must answer to the king for his man say i. keep him by you till i send and i hasten down. 
the king be with de aquila in the grand stand above welansford down in the valley yonder. his court knight and dame lay glitter on the edge of the glade. i make my homage and henry take it coldly. how come your beater to shout threat against me. say he. 
the tale ha grow i answer. one old witless man cry out ware red william s arrow when the young knight shoot at our line. we have two beater hit. 
i will do justice on that man he answer. who be his master. 
he s rahere s man say i. 
rahere s. say henry. ha my fool a fool. 
i hear the bell jingle at the back of the stand and a red leg wave over it. then a black one. so very slowly rahere the king s jester straddle the edge of the plank and look down on u rub his chin. loose knit with crop hair and a sad priest s face under his cockscomb cap that he could twist like a strip of wet leather. his eye be hollow set. 
nay nay brother say he. if i suffer you to keep your fool you must e en suffer me to keep mine. 
this he deliver slowly into the king s angry face. my faith a king s jester must be bold than lion. 
now we will judge the matter say rahere. let these two brave knight go hang my fool because he warn king henry against run after saxon deer through wood full of saxon. faith brother if thy brother red william now among the saint a we hope have be timely warn against a certain arrow in new forest one fool of u four would not be crown fool of england this morning. therefore hang the fool s fool knight. mark the fool s cunning. rahere have himself give u order to hang the man. no king dare confirm a fool s command to such a great baron a de aquila. and the helpless king know it. 
what. no hang. say rahere after a silence. a god s gracious name kill something then. go forward with the hunt. 
he split his face ear to ear in a yawn like a fish pond. henry say he the next time i sleep do not pester me with thy foolery. then he throw himself out of sight behind the back of the stand. 
i have see courage with mirth in de aquila and hugh but stark mad courage of rahere s sort i have never even guess at. 
what do the king say. cry dan. 
he have open his mouth to speak when young fulke who have come into the stand with u laugh and boy like once begin could not check himself. he kneel on the instant for pardon but fell sideways cry. his leg. oh his long wave red leg a he go backward. 
like a storm break our grave king laugh stamp and reel with laughter till the stand shake. so like a storm this strange thing pass. 
he wipe his eye and sign to de aquila to let the drive come on. 
when the deer break we be please that the king shoot from the shelter of the stand and do not ride out after the hurt beast a red william would have do. most vilely his knight and baron shoot. 
de aquila keep me beside him and i saw no more of hugh till even. we two have a little hut of bough by the camp where i go to wash me before the great supper and in the dusk i hear hugh on the couch. 
weary hugh. say i. 
a little he say. i have drive saxon deer all day for a norman king and there be enough of earl godwin s blood leave in me to sicken at the work. wait awhile with the torch. 
i wait then and i think i hear him sob. 
poor hugh. be he so tire. say una. hobden say beat be hard work sometimes. 
i think this tale be get like the wood say dan dark and twistier every minute. sir richard have walk a he talk and though the child think they know the wood well enough they felt a little lose. 
a dark tale enough say sir richard but the end be not all black. when we have wash we go to wait on the king at meat in the great pavilion. just before the trumpet blow for the entry all the guest upstanding long rahere come posture up to hugh and strike him with his bauble bladder. 
here s a heavy heart for a joyous meal. he say. but each man must have his black hour or where would be the merit of laugh. take a fool s advice and sit it out with my man. i ll make a jest to excuse you to the king if he remember to ask for you. that s more than i would do for archbishop anselm. 
hugh look at him heavy eye. rahere. say he. the king s jester. oh saint what punishment for my king. and smite his hand together. go go fight it out in the dark say rahere and thy saxon saint reward thee for thy pity to my fool. he push him from the pavilion and hugh lurch away like one drink. 
but why. say una. i don t understand. 
ah why indeed. live you long enough maiden and you shall know the mean of many why. sir richard smile. i wonder too but it be my duty to wait on the king at the high table in all that glitter and stir. 
he speak me his thank for the sport i have help show him and he have learn from de aquila enough of my folk and my castle in normandy to graciously feign that he know and have love my brother there. this also be part of a king s work. many great men sit at the high table choose by the king for their wit not for their birth. i have forget their name and their face i only saw that one night. but sir richard turn in his stride but rahere flame in black and scarlet among our guest the hollow of his dark cheek flush with wine long laugh rahere and the stricken sadness of his face when he be not twist it about rahere i shall never forget. 
at the king s outgo de aquila bid me follow him with his great bishop and two great baron to the little pavilion. we have devise juggler and dance for the court s sport. but henry love to talk gravely to grave men and de aquila have tell him of my travel to the world s end. we have a fire of apple wood sweet a incense and the curtain at the door be loop up we could hear the music and see the light shin on mail and dress. 
rahere lay behind the king s chair. the question he dart forth at me be a shrewd a the flame. i be tell of our fight with the ape a ye call them at the world s end. [see the knight of the joyous venture in puck of pook s hill. ] but where be the saxon knight that go with you. say henry. he must confirm these miracle. 
he be busy say rahere confirm a new miracle. 
enough miracle for today say the king. rahere you have save your long neck. fetch the saxon knight. 
pest on it say rahere. who would be a king s jester. i ll bring him brother if you ll see that none of your home brew bishop taste my wine while i be away. so he jingle forth between the men at arm at the door. 
henry have make many bishop in england without the pope s leave. i know not the right of the matter but only rahere dare jest about it. we wait on the king s next word. 
i think rahere be jealous of you say he smile to nigel of ely. he be one bishop. and william of exeter the other wal wist the saxon call him laugh long. rahere be a priest at heart. shall i make him a bishop de aquila. say the king. 
there might be bad say our lord of pevensey. rahere would never do what anselm ha do. 
this anselm archbishop of canterbury have go off rag to the pope at rome because henry would make bishop without his leave either. i know not the right of it but de aquila do and the king laugh. 
anselm mean no harm. he should have be a monk not a bishop say the king. i ll never quarrel with anselm or his pope till they quarrel with my england. if we can keep the king s peace till my son come to rule no man will lightly quarrel with our england. 
amen say de aquila. but the king s peace end when the king dy. 
that be true. the king s peace dy with the king. the custom then be that all law be outlaw and men do what they will till the new king be choose. 
i will amend that say the king hotly. i will have it so that though king son and grandson be all slay in one day still the king s peace should hold over all england. what be a man that his mere death must upheave a people. we must have the law. 
truth say william of exeter. but that he would have say to any word of the king. 
the two great baron behind say nothing. this teach be clean against their stomach for when the king s peace end the great baron go to war and increase their land. at that instant we hear rahere s voice return in a scurril saxon rhyme against william of exeter. 
well wist wal wist where lay his fortune when that he fawn on the king for his crozier. 
and amid our laughter he burst in with one arm round hugh and one round the old pilgrim of netherfield. 
here be your knight brother say he and for the good disport of the company here be my fool. hold up saxon samson the gate of gaza be clean carry away. 
hugh break loose white and sick and stagger to my side. the old man blink upon the company. 
we look at the king but he smile. 
rahere promise he would show me some sport after supper to cover his morning s offence say he to de aquila. so this be thy man rahere. 
even so say rahere. my man he ha be and my protection he ha take ever since i find him under the gallows at stamford bridge tell the kite atop of it that he be harold of england. 
there be a great silence upon these last strange word and hugh hide his face on my shoulder woman fashion. 
it be most cruel true he whisper to me. the old man prove it to me at the beat after you leave and again in our hut even now. it be harold my king. 
de aquila creep forward. he walk about the man and swallow. 
bone of the saint. say he star. 
many a stray shoot go too well home say rahere. 
the old man flinch a at an arrow. why do you hurt me still. he say in saxon. it be on some bone of some saint that i promise i would give my england to the great duke. he turn on u all cry shrilly. thane he have catch me at rouen a lifetime ago. if i have not promise i should have lie there all my life. what else could i have do. i have lie in a strait prison all my life none the le. there be no need to throw stone at me. he guard his face with his arm and shiver. now his madness will strike him down say rahere. cast out the evil spirit one of you new bishop. 
say william of exeter. harold be slay at santlache fight. all the world know it. 
i think this man must have forget say rahere. be comfort father. thou wast well slay at hastings forty year go le three month and nine day. tell the king. 
the man uncover his face. i think they would stone me he say. i do not know i speak before a king. he come to his full tower height no mean man but frail beyond belief. 
the king turn to the table and hold him out his own cup of wine. the old man drink and beckon behind him and before all the norman my hugh bore away the empty cup saxon fashion upon the knee. 
it be harold. say de aquila. his own stiff neck blood kneel to serve him. 
be it so say henry. sit then thou that hast be harold of england. 
the madman sit and hard dark henry look at him between half shut eye. we others star like ox all but de aquila who watch rahere a i have see him watch a far sail on the sea. 
the wine and the warmth cast the old man into a dream. his white head bow. his hand hang. his eye indeed be open but the mind be shut. when he stretch his foot they be scurfed and road cut like a slave s. 
ah rahere cry hugh why hast thou show him thus. good have let him die than shame him and me. 
shame thee. say the king. would any baron of mine kneel to me if i be witless discrowned and alone and harold have my throne. 
no say rahere. i be the sole fool that might do it brother unless he point at de aquila whom he have only meet that day yonder tough norman crab keep me company. but sir hugh i do not mean to shame him. he hath be somewhat punish through maybe little fault of his own. 
yet he lie to my father the conqueror say the king and the old man flinch in his sleep. 
maybe say rahere but thy brother robert whose throat we purpose soon to slit with our own hand. 
hutt. say the king laugh. i ll keep robert at my table for a life s guest when i catch him. robert mean no harm. it be all his curse baron. 
none the le say rahere robert may say that thou hast not always speak the stark truth to him about england. i should not hang too many men on that bough brother. and it be certain say hugh that he point to the old man harold be force to make his promise to the great duke. 
very strongly force say de aquila. he have never any pride in the duke william s dealing with harold before hastings. yet a he say one cannot build a house all of straight stick. 
no matter how he be force say henry england be promise to my father william by edward the confessor. be it not so. william of exeter nod. harold confirm that promise to my father on the bone of the saint. afterwards he break his oath and would have take england by the strong hand. 
oh. la. la. rahere roll up his eye like a girl. that ever england should be take by the strong hand. 
see that red william and henry after him have each in just that fashion snatch england from robert of normandy we others know not where to look. but de aquila save u quickly. 
promise keep or promise break he say harold come near enough to break u norman at santlache. 
be it so close a fight then. say henry. 
a hair would have turn it either way de aquila answer. his house carles stand like rock against rain. where wast thou hugh in it. 
among godwin s folk beneath the golden dragon till your front give back and we break our rank to follow say hugh. 
but i bid you stand. i bid you stand. i know it be all a deceit. harold have wake and lean forward a one cry from the grave. 
ah now we see how the traitor himself be betray. say william of exeter and look for a smile from the king. 
i make thee bishop to preach at my bid say henry. and turn to harold tell u here how thy people fight u. say he. their son serve me now against my brother robert. 
the old man shake his head cunningly. na na na. he cry. i know good. every time i tell my tale men stone me. but thane i will tell you a great thing. listen. he tell u how many pace it be from some saxon saint s shrine to another shrine and how many more back to the abbey of the battle. 
ay say he. i have tread it too often to be out even ten pace. i move very swiftly. harold of norway know that and so doe tostig my brother. they lie at ease at stamford bridge and from stamford bridge to the battle abbey it be he mutter over many number and forget u. 
ay say de aquila all in a muse. that man break harold of norway at stamford bridge and come near to break u at santlache all within one month. 
but how do he come alive from santlache fight. ask the king. ask him. hast thou hear it rahere. never. he say he ha be stone too often for tell the tale. but he can count you off saxon and norman shrine till daylight say rahere and the old man nod proudly. 
my faith. say henry after a while. i think even my father the great duke would pity if he could see him. 
how if he doe see. say rahere. 
hugh cover his face with his sound hand. ah why hast thou sham him. he cry again to rahere. 
no no say the old man reach to pluck at rahere s cape. i be rahere s man. none stone me now and he play with the bell on the scollop of it. 
how if he have be bring to me when you find him. say the king to rahere. 
you would have hold him prisoner again a the great duke do rahere answer. 
true say our king. he be nothing except his name. yet that name might have be use by strong men to trouble my england. yes. i must have make him my life s guest a i shall make robert. 
i know it say rahere. but while this man wander mad by the wayside none care what he call himself. 
i learn to cease talk before the stone fly say the old man and hugh groan. 
ye have hear. say rahere. witless landless nameless and but for my protection masterless he can still make shift to bide his doom under the open sky. 
then wherefore didst thou bring him here for a mock and a shame. cry hugh beside himself with woe. 
a right mock and a just shame. say william of exeter. 
not to me say nigel of ely. i see and i tremble but i neither mock nor judge. well speak ely. rahere fall into the pure fool again. i ll pray for thee when i turn monk. thou hast give thy bless on a war between two most christian brother. he mean the war forward twixt henry and robert of normandy. i charge you brother he say wheel on the king dost thou mock my fool. the king shake his head and so then do smooth william of exeter. 
de aquila doe thou mock him. rahere jingle from one to another and the old man smile. 
by the bone of the saint not i say our lord of pevensey. i know how doom near he break u at santlache. 
sir hugh you be excuse the question. but you valiant loyal honourable and devout baron lord of man s justice in your own bound do you mock my fool. 
he shake his bauble in the very face of those two baron whose name i have forget. na na. they say and wave him back foolishly enough. 
he hie him across to star nod harold and speak from behind his chair. 
no man mock thee who here judge this man. henry of england nigel de aquila. on your soul swift with the answer. he cry. 
none answer. we be all the king not least over bear by that terrible scarlet and black wizard jester. 
well for your soul he say wipe his brow. next shrill like a woman. oh come to me. and hugh run forward to hold harold that have slide down in the chair. 
hearken say rahere his arm round harold s neck. the king his bishop the knight all the world s crazy chessboard neither mock nor judge thee. take that comfort with thee harold of england. 
hugh heave the old man up and he smile. 
good comfort say harold. tell me again. i have be somewhat punish. rahere halloo it once more into his ear a the head roll. we hear him sigh and nigel of ely stand forth pray aloud. 
out. i will have no norman. harold say a clearly a i speak now and he refuged himself on hugh s sound shoulder and stretch out and lay all still. 
dead. say una turn up a white face in the dusk. 
that be his good fortune. to die in the king s presence and on the breast of the most gentle true knight of his own house. some of u envy him say sir richard and fell back to take swallow s bridle. 
turn leave here puck call ahead of them from under an oak. they duck down a narrow path through close ash plantation. 
the child hurry forward but cut a corner charge full abreast into the thorn faggot that old hobden be carry home on his back. my. my. say he. have you scratted your face miss una. 
sorry. it s all right say una rub her nose. how many rabbit do you get today. 
that s tellin. the old man grin a he re hoist his faggot. i reckon mu ridley he ve get rheumatism along o lyin in the dik to see i didn t snap up any. think o that now. 
they laugh a good deal while he tell them the tale. 
an just a he crawl away i hear some one hollerin to the hound in our wood say he. didn t you hear. you must ha be asleep sure ly. 
oh what about the sleeper you promise to show u. dan cry. 
ere he be house an all. hobden dive into the prickly heart of the faggot and take out a dormouse s wonderfully weave nest of grass and leaf. his blunt finger part it a if it have be precious lace and tilt it toward the last of the light he show the little red furry chap curl up inside his tail between his eye that be shut for their winter sleep. 
let s take him home. don t breathe on him say una. it ll make him warm and he ll wake up and die straight off. win t he hobby. 
dat s a heap good by my reckonin than wakin up and findin himself in a cage for life. no. we ll lay him into the bottom o this hedge. dat s jus right. no more trouble for him till come spring. an now we ll go home. 
a carol. 
our lord who do the ox command to kneel to judah s king he bind his frost upon the land to ripen it for spring to ripen it for spring good sir accord to his word. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
when we poor fenmen skate the ice or shiver on the wold we hear the cry of a single tree that break her heart in the cold that break her heart in the cold good sir and rendeth by the board. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
her wood be craze and little worth except a to burn that we may warm and make our mirth until the spring return until the spring return good sir when people walk abroad. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
god bless the master of this house and all that sleep therein. and guard the fen from pirate folk and keep u all from sin to walk in honesty good sir of think and deed and word. which shall befriend our latter end and who shall judge the lord. 
