barrack room ballad. 
first series. 
by rudyard kipling. 
dedication. to t. a. 
content. 
danny deever tommy fuzzy wuzzy soldier soldier screw gun cell gunga din oonts loot snarleyow the widow at windsor belt the young british soldier mandalay troopin the widow s party ford o kabul gentleman ranker route marchin shillin a day. 
second series. 
bob back to the army again bird of prey march soldier an. sailor too sapper that day the men that fight at minden cholera camp the lady bill awkins the mother lodge follow me ome the sergeant s weddin the jacket the eathen the shut eye sentry mary pity woman. for to admire. 
dedication. 
to t. a. i have make for you a song and it may be right or wrong but only you can tell me if it s true. i have try for to explain both your pleasure and your pain and thomas here s my best respect to you. 
o there ll surely come a day when they ll give you all your pay and treat you a a christian ought to do. so until that day come round heaven keep you safe and sound and thomas here s my best respect to you. 
r. k. 
danny deever. 
what be the bugle blowin for. say file on parade. to turn you out to turn you out the colour sergeant say. what make you look so white so white. say file on parade. i m dreadin what i ve get to watch the colour sergeant say. for they re hangin danny deever you can hear the dead march play the regiment s in ollow square they re hangin him to day. they ve take of his button off an cut his stripe away an they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what make the rear rank breathe so ard. say file on parade. it s bitter cold it s bitter cold the colour sergeant say. what make that front rank man fall down. say file on parade. a touch o sun a touch o sun the colour sergeant say. they be hangin danny deever they be marchin of im round they ave alted danny deever by be coffin on the grind. an e ll swing in arf a minute for a sneakin shootin hound o they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
be cot be right and cot to mine say file on parade. e s sleepin out an far to night the colour sergeant say. i ve drink be beer a score o time say file on parade. e s drinkin bitter beer alone the colour sergeant say. they be hangin danny deever you must mark im to be place for e shoot a comrade sleepin you must look im in the face. nine undred of be county an the regiment s disgrace while they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what s that so black agin the sun. say file on parade. it s danny fightin ard for life the colour sergeant say. what s that that whimper over ead. say file on parade. it s danny s soul that s passin now the colour sergeant say. for they re do with danny deever you can ear the quickstep play the regiment s in column an they re marchin u away. ho. the young recruit be shakin an they ll want their beer to day after hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
tommy. 
i go into a public ouse to get a pint o beer the publican e up an sez we serve no red coat here. the girl be ind the bar they laugh an giggle fit to die i out into the street again an to myself sez i. o it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy go away. but it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play the band begin to play my boy the band begin to play o it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play. 
i go into a theatre a sober a could be they give a drink civilian room but adn t none for me. they send me to the gallery or round the music alls but when it come to fightin lord. they ll shove me in the stall. for it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy wait outside. but it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide the troopship s on the tide my boy the troopship s on the tide o it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide. 
yes makin mock o uniform that guard you while you sleep be cheap than them uniform an they re starvation cheap. an hustlin drunken soldier when they re goin large a bite be five time good business than paradin in full kit. then it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy ow s yer soul. but it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll the drum begin to roll my boy the drum begin to roll o it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll. 
we aren t no thin red eroes nor we aren t no blackguard too but single men in barricks most remarkable like you. an if sometimes our conduck isn t all your fancy paint why single men in barricks don t grow into plaster saint. while it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy fall be ind but it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind there s trouble in the wind my boy there s trouble in the wind o it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind. 
you talk o good food for u an school an fire an all. we ll wait for extry ration if you treat u rational. don t mess about the cook room slop but prove it to our face the widow s uniform be not the soldier man s disgrace. for it s tommy this an tommy that an chuck him out the brute. but it s saviour of be country when the gun begin to shoot. an it s tommy this an tommy that an anything you please. an tommy ain t a bloomin fool you bet that tommy see. 
fuzzy wuzzy. 
soudan expeditionary force. 
we ve fight with many men acrost the sea an some of em be brave an some be not. the paythan an the zulu an burmese. but the fuzzy be the fine o the lot. we never get a ha porth s change of im. e squat in the scrub an ocked our or e cut our sentry up at suakim an e play the cat an banjo with our force. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. we give you your certificate an if you want it sign we ll come an ave a romp with you whenever you re incline. 
we take our chanst among the khyber ill the boer knock u silly at a mile the burman give u irriwaddy chill an a zulu impi dish u up in style. but all we ever get from such a they be pop to what the fuzzy make u swaller. we eld our bloomin own the paper say but man for man the fuzzy knock u oller. then ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an the missis and the kid. our order be to break you an of course we go an do. we slosh you with martini an it wasn t ardly fair. but for all the odds agin you fuzzy wuz you break the square. 
e asn t get no paper of be own e asn t get no medal nor reward so we must certify the skill e s show in usin of be long two anded sword. when e s oppin in an out among the bush with be coffin eaded shield an shovel spear an appy day with fuzzy on the rush will last an ealthy tommy for a year. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an your friend which be no more if we adn t lose some messmate we would elp you to deplore. but give an take s the gospel an we ll call the bargain fair for if you ave lose more than u you crumple up the square. 
e rush at the smoke when we let drive an before we know e s ackin at our ead. e s all ot sand an ginger when alive an e s generally shammin when e s dead. e s a daisy e s a ducky e s a lamb. e s a injia rubber idiot on the spree e s the on y thing that doesn t give a damn for a regiment o british infantree. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. an ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy with your ayrick ead of air you big black boundin beggar for you break a british square. 
soldier soldier. 
soldier soldier come from the war why don t you march with my true love. we re fresh from off the ship an e s maybe give the slip an you d best go look for a new love. new love. true love. best go look for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war what do you see o my true love. i seed im serve the queen in a suit o rifle green an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do ye see no more o my true love. i seed im runnin by when the shot begin to fly but you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do aught take arm to my true love. i couldn t see the fight for the smoke it lay so white an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll up an tend to my true love. e s lie on the dead with a bullet through be ead an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll down an die with my true love. the pit we dig ll ide im an the twenty men beside im an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do you bring no sign from my true love. i bring a lock of air that e allus use to wear an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war o then i know it s true i ve lose my true love. an i tell you truth again when you ve lose the feel o pain you d best take me for your true love. true love. new love. best take im for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best take im for your true love. 
screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i walk in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule with seventy gunner be ind me an never a beggar forget it s only the pick of the army that handle the dear little pet tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we call round with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you can go where you please you can skid up the tree but you don t get away from the gun. 
they send u along where the road be but mostly we go where they ain t. we d climb up the side of a sign board an trust to the stick o the paint. we ve chivy the naga an looshai we ve give the afreedeeman fit for we fancy ourselves at two thousand we gun that be build in two bit tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
if a man doesn t work why we drill im an teach im ow to behave. if a beggar can t march why we kill im an rattle im into be grave. you ve get to stand up to our business an spring without snatchin or fuss. d you say that you sweat with the field gun. by god you must lather with u tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
the eagle be screamin around u the river s a moanin below we re clear o the pine an the oak scrub we re out on the rock an the snow an the wind be a thin a a whip lash what carry away to the plain the rattle an stamp o the lead mule the jinglety jink o the chain tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
there s a wheel on the horn o the mornin an a wheel on the edge o the pit an a drop into nothin beneath you a straight a a beggar can spit. with the sweat runnin out o your shirt sleeve an the sun off the snow in your face an arf o the men on the drag rope to hold the old gun in er place tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i climb in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule. the monkey can say what our road be the wild goat e know where we pass. stand easy you long eared old darlin s. out drag rope. with shrapnel. hold fast tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we take tea with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you may hide in the cave they ll be only your graf but you can t get away from the gun. 
cell. 
i ve a head like a concertina. i ve a tongue like a button stick. i ve a mouth like an old potato and i m more than a little sick but i ve have my fun o the corp ral s guard. i ve make the cinder fly and i m here in the clink for a thunder drink and black the corporal s eye. with a second hand overcoat under my head and a beautiful view of the yard o it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. mad drink and resist the guard strewth but i sock it them hard. so it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. 
i start o canteen porter i finish o canteen beer but a dose o gin that a mate slip in it be that that bring me here. twas that and an extry double guard that rub my nose in the dirt. but i fell away with the corp ral s stock and the best of the corp ral s shirt. 
i leave my cap in a public house my boot in the public road and lord know where and i don t care my belt and my tunic go. they ll stop my pay they ll cut away the stripe i use to wear but i leave my mark on the corp ral s face and i think he ll keep it there. 
my wife she cry on the barrack gate my kid in the barrack yard it ain t that i mind the ord ly room it s that that cut so hard. i ll take my oath before them both that i will sure abstain but a soon a i m in with a mate and gin i know i ll do it again. with a second hand overcoat under my head and a beautiful view of the yard yes it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. mad drink and resist the guard strewth but i sock it them hard. so it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. 
gunga din. 
you may talk o gin and beer when you re quarter safe out ere an you re send to penny fight an aldershot it. but when it come to slaughter you will do your work on water an you ll lick the bloomin boot of im that s get it. now in injia s sunny clime where i use to spend my time a servin of er majesty the queen of all them blackfaced crew the fine man i know be our regimental bhisti gunga din. he be din. din. din. you limpin lump o brick dust gunga din. hi. slippery hitherao. water get it. panee lao. you squidgy nose old idol gunga din. 
the uniform e wear be nothin much before an rather le than arf o that be ind for a piece o twisty rag an a goatskin water bag be all the field equipment e could find. when the sweatin troop train lay in a sidin through the day where the eat would make your bloomin eyebrow crawl we shout harry by. till our throat be bricky dry then we wopped im cause e couldn t serve u all. it be din. din. din. you eathen where the mischief ave you be. you put some juldee in it or i ll marrow you this minute if you don t fill up my helmet gunga din. 
e would dot an carry one till the long day be do. an e didn t seem to know the use o fear. if we charge or break or cut you could bet your bloomin nut e d be waitin fifty pace right flank rear. with be mussick on be back e would skip with our attack an watch u till the bugle make retire an for all be dirty ide e be white clear white inside when e go to tend the wound under fire. it be din. din. din. with the bullet kickin dust spot on the green. when the cartridge run out you could hear the front file shout hi. ammunition mule an gunga din. 
i shan t forgit the night when i drop be ind the fight with a bullet where my belt plate should a be. i be chokin mad with thirst an the man that spy me first be our good old grinnin gruntin gunga din. e lift up my ead an he plug me where i bleed an e guv me arf a pint o water green. it be crawlin and it stink but of all the drink i ve drink i m gratefullest to one from gunga din. it be din. din. din. ere s a beggar with a bullet through be spleen. e s chawin up the grind an e s kickin all around. for gawd s sake git the water gunga din. 
e carry me away to where a dooli lay an a bullet come an drill the beggar clean. e put me safe inside an just before e die i ope you like your drink sez gunga din. so i ll meet im late on at the place where e be go where it s always double drill and no canteen. e ll be squattin on the coal givin drink to poor damn soul an i ll get a swig in hell from gunga din. yes din. din. din. you lazarushian leather gunga din. though i ve belt you and flay you by the livin gawd that make you you re a good man than i be gunga din. 
oonts. 
northern india transport train. 
wot make the soldier s eart to penk wot make im to perspire. it isn t standin up to charge nor lyin down to fire. but it s everlastin waitin on a everlastin road for the commissariat camel an be commissariat load. o the oont o the oont o the commissariat oont. with be silly neck a bobbin like a basket full o snake. we pack im like an idol an you ought to ear im grunt an when we get im load up be bless girth rope break. 
wot make the rear guard swear so ard when night be drorin in an every native follower be shiverin for be skin. it ain t the chanst o be rush by paythans from the ill it s the commissariat camel puttin on be bloomin frill. o the oont o the oont o the hairy scary oont. a trippin over tent rope when we ve get the night alarm. we sock im with a stretcher pole an eads im off in front an when we ve save be bloomin life e chaw our bloomin arm. 
the orse e know above a bite the bullock s but a fool the elephant s a gentleman the battery mule s a mule. but the commissariat cam u el when all be say an do e s a devil an a ostrich an a orphan child in one. o the oont o the oont o the gawd forsake oont. the lumpy umpy ummin bird a singin where e lie e s block the whole division from the rear guard to the front an when we get him up again the beggar go an dy. 
e ll gall an chafe an lame an fight e smell most awful vile. e ll lose isself for ever if you let im stray a mile. e s game to graze the ole day long an owl the ole night through an when e come to greasy grind e split isself in two. o the oont o the oont o the floppin droppin oont. when be long leg give from under an be meltin eye be dim the tribe be up be ind u and the tribe be out in front it ain t no jam for tommy but it s kite an crow for im. 
so when the cruel march be do an when the road be blind an when we see the camp in front an ear the shot be ind ho. then we strip be saddle off and all be woe be past. e think on u that use im so and get revenge at last. o the oont o the oont o the floatin bloatin oont. the late lament camel in the water cut e lie. we keep a mile be ind im an we keep a mile in front but e get into the drinkin cask and then o course we dy. 
loot. 
if you ve ever steal a pheasant egg be ind the keeper s back if you ve ever snigged the washin from the line if you ve ever cram a gander in your bloomin aversack you will understand this little song o mine. but the service rule be ard an from such we be debar for the same with english moral doe not suit. cornet. toot. toot. w y they call a man a robber if e stuff be marchin clobber with the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. lulu. loo. loo. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. bloomin loot. that s the thing to make the boy git up an shoot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again clap em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. ff. whoopee. tear im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
if you ve knock a nigger edgeways when e s thrustin for your life you must leave im very careful where e fell. an may thank your star an gaiter if you didn t feel be knife that you ain t tell off to bury im a well. then the sweatin tommies wonder a they spade the beggar under why lootin should be enter a a crime. so if my song you ll ear i will learn you plain an clear ow to pay yourself for fightin overtime. chorus. with the loot. 
now remember when you re acking round a gild burma god that be eye be very often precious stone. an if you treat a nigger to a dose o cleanin rod e s like to show you everything e own. when e win t prodooce no more pour some water on the floor where you ear it answer ollow to the boot. cornet. toot. toot. when the grind begin to sink shove your baynick down the chink an you re sure to touch the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. 
when from ouse to ouse you re unting you must always work in pair it alves the gain but safe you will find for a single man get bottle on them twisty wisty stair an a woman come and clobs im from be ind. when you ve turn em inside out an it seem beyond a doubt a if there weren t enough to dust a flute. cornet. toot. toot. before you sling your ook at the ousetops take a look for it s underneath the tile they ide the loot. chorus. ow the loot. 
you can mostly square a sergint an a quartermaster too if you only take the proper way to go. i could never keep my pickin s but i ve learn you all i know an don t you never say i tell you so. an now i ll bid good bye for i m gettin rather dry an i see another tunin up to toot. cornet. toot. toot. so ere s good luck to those that wear the widow s clo e an the devil send em all they want o loot. chorus. yes the loot bloomin loot. in the tunic an the mess tin an the boot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again. fff. whoop em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. heeya. sick im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
snarleyow. 
this appened in a battle to a batt ry of the corp which be first among the woman an amazin first in war. an what the bloomin battle be i don t remember now but two s off lead e answer to the name o snarleyow. down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
they be movin into action they be need very sore to learn a little schoolin to a native army corp they ad nip against an uphill they be tuckin down the brow when a tricky trundlin roundshot give the knock to snarleyow. 
they cut im loose an leave im e be almost tear in two but he try to follow after a a well train orse should do. e go an foul the limber an the driver s brother squeal. pull up pull up for snarleyow be head s between be eel. 
the driver umped be shoulder for the wheel be goin round an there ain t no stop conductor. when a batt ry s changin grind. sez e. i break the beggar in an very sad i feel but i couldn t pull up not for you your ead between your eel. 
e adn t ardly speak the word before a droppin shell a little right the batt ry an between the section fell. an when the smoke ad clear away before the limber wheel there lay the driver s brother with be ead between be eel. 
then sez the driver s brother an be word be very plain for gawd s own sake get over me an put me out o pain. they saw be wound be mortial an they judge that it be best so they take an drive the limber straight across be back an chest. 
the driver e give nothin cept a little coughin grunt but e swing be or andsome when it come to action front. an if one wheel be juicy you may lay your monday head twas juicy for the nigger when the case begin to spread. 
the moril of this story it be plainly to be see. you avn t get no family when servin of the queen you avn t get no brother father sister wife or son if you want to win your battle take an work your bloomin gun. down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
the widow at windsor. 
ave you eard o the widow at windsor with a hairy gold crown on er ead. she a ship on the foam she a million at ome an she pay u poor beggar in red. ow poor beggar in red. there s er nick on the cavalry or there s er mark on the medical store an er trooper you ll find with a fair wind be ind that take u to various war. poor beggar. barbarious war. then ere s to the widow at windsor an ere s to the store an the gun the men an the or what make up the force o missis victorier s son. poor beggar. victorier s son. 
walk wide o the widow at windsor for alf o creation she own. we ave buy er the same with the sword an the flame an we ve salt it down with our bone. poor beggar. it s blue with our bone. hand off o the son o the widow hand off o the good in er shop for the king must come down an the emperor frown when the widow at windsor say stop. poor beggar. we re send to say stop. then ere s to the lodge o the widow from the pole to the tropic it run to the lodge that we tile with the rank an the file an open in form with the gun. poor beggar. it s always they gun. 
we ave eard o the widow at windsor it s safe to let er alone. for er sentry we stand by the sea an the land wherever the bugle be blow. poor beggar. an don t we get blow. take old o the wing o the mornin an flop round the earth till you re dead. but you win t get away from the tune that they play to the bloomin old rag over ead. poor beggar. it s ot over ead. then ere s to the son o the widow wherever owever they roam. ere s all they desire an if they require a speedy return to their ome. poor beggar. they ll never see ome. 
belt. 
there be a row in silver street that s near to dublin quay between an irish regiment an english cavalree. it start at revelly an it last on till dark. the first man drop at harrison s the last forninst the park. for it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
there be a row in silver street the regiment be out they call u delhi rebel an we answer three about. that draw them like a hornet s nest we meet them good an large the english at the double an the irish at the charge. then it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street an i be in it too. we pass the time o day an then the belt go whirraru. i misremember what occur but subsequint the storm a freeman s journal supplemint be all my uniform. o it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street they send the polis there the english be too drink to know the irish didn t care. but when they grow impertinint we simultaneous rise till half o them be liffey mud an half be tatthered clo e. for it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it might ha rag till now but some one draw his side arm clear an nobody know how. twas hogan take the point an drop. we saw the red blood run. an so we all be murderer that start out in fun. while it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street but that put down the shine wid each man whisperin to his next. twas never work o mine. we go away like beat dog an down the street we bore him the poor dumb corpse that couldn t tell the bhoys be sorry for him. when it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it isn t over yet for half of u be under guard wid punishment to get. ti all a merricle to me a in the clink i lie. there be a row in silver street begod i wonder why. but it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
the young british soldier. 
when the arf make recruity go out to the east e act like a babe an e drink like a beast an e wonder because e be frequent decease ere e s fit for to serve a a soldier. serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
now all you recruities what s draft to day you shut up your rag box an ark to my lay an i ll sing you a soldier a far a i may. a soldier what s fit for a soldier. fit fit fit for a soldier. 
first mind you steer clear o the grog seller hut for they sell you fix bay net that rot out your gut ay drink that ud eat the live steel from your butt an it s bad for the young british soldier. bad bad bad for the soldier. 
when the cholera come a it will past a doubt keep out of the wet and don t go on the shout for the sickness get in a the liquor dy out an it crumple the young british soldier. crum crum crumple the soldier. 
but the bad o your foe be the sun over ead. you must wear your elmet for all that be say. if e find you uncover e ll knock you down dead an you ll die like a fool of a soldier. fool fool fool of a soldier. 
if you re cast for fatigue by a sergeant unkind don t grouse like a woman nor crack on nor blind. be handy and civil and then you will find that it s beer for the young british soldier. beer beer beer for the soldier. 
now if you must marry take care she be old a troop sergeant s widow s the nice i m tell for beauty win t help if your ration be cold nor love ain t enough for a soldier. nough nough nough for a soldier. 
if the wife should go wrong with a comrade be loath to shoot when you catch em you ll swing on my oath. make im take er and keep er. that s hell for them both an you re shut o the curse of a soldier. curse curse curse of a soldier. 
when first under fire an you re wishful to duck don t look nor take eed at the man that be strike be thankful you re livin and trust to your luck and march to your front like a soldier. front front front like a soldier. 
when arf of your bullet fly wide in the ditch don t call your martini a cross eye old bitch. she s human a you be you treat her a sich an she ll fight for the young british soldier. fight fight fight for the soldier. 
when shakin their bustle like lady so fine the gun o the enemy wheel into line shoot low at the limber an don t mind the shine for noise never startle the soldier. start start startle the soldier. 
if your officer s dead and the sergeant look white remember it s ruin to run from a fight. so take open order lie down and sit tight and wait for support like a soldier. wait wait wait like a soldier. 
when you re wound and leave on afghanistan s plain and the woman come out to cut up what remain jest roll to your rifle and blow out your brain an go to your gawd like a soldier. go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
mandalay. 
by the old moulmein pagoda lookin eastward to the sea there s a burma girl a settin and i know she think o me. for the wind be in the palm tree and the temple bell they say. come you back you british soldier. come you back to mandalay. come you back to mandalay where the old flotilla lay. can t you ear their paddle chunkin from rangoon to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
er petticoat be yaller an er little cap be green an er name be supi yaw lat jes the same a theebaw s queen an i seed her first a smokin of a whackin white cheroot an a wastin christian kiss on an eathen idol s foot. bloomin idol make o mud wot they call the great gawd budd plucky lot she care for idol when i kiss er where she stud. on the road to mandalay. 
when the mist be on the rice field an the sun be droppin slow she d git er little banjo an she d sing kulla lo lo. with er arm upon my shoulder an er cheek agin my cheek we useter watch the steamer an the hathis pilin teak. elephints a pilin teak in the sludgy squdgy creek where the silence ung that eavy you be arf afraid to speak. on the road to mandalay. 
but that s all shove be ind me long ago an fur away an there ain t no bus runnin from the bank to mandalay. an i m learnin ere in london what the ten year soldier tell. if you ve eard the east a callin you win t never eed naught else. no. you win t eed nothin else but them spicy garlic smell an the sunshine an the palm tree an the tinkly temple bell. on the road to mandalay. 
i be sick o wastin leather on these gritty pavin stone an the blast henglish drizzle wake the fever in my bone. tho i walk with fifty ousemaids out chelsea to the strand an they talk a lot o lovin but wot do they understand. beefy face an grubby and law. wot do they understand. i ve a neat sweet maiden in a clean green land. on the road to mandalay. 
ship me somewhere east of suez where the best be like the bad where there aren t no ten commandment an a man can raise a thirst. for the temple bell be callin an it s there that i would be by the old moulmein pagoda look lazy at the sea. on the road to mandalay where the old flotilla lay with our sick beneath the awning when we go to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
troopin. 
our army in the east. 
troopin troopin troopin to the sea. ere s september come again the six year men be free. o leave the dead be ind u for they cannot come away to where the ship s a coalin up that take u ome to day. we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
the malabar s in arbour with the jumner at er tail an the time expire s waitin of be order for to sail. ho. the weary waitin when on khyber ill we lay but the time expire s waitin of be order ome to day. 
they ll turn u out at portsmouth wharf in cold an wet an rain all wearin injian cotton kit but we will not complain. they ll kill u of pneumonia for that s their little way but damn the chill and fever men we re goin ome to day. 
troopin troopin winter s round again. see the new draf s pourin in for the old campaign. ho you poor recruities but you ve get to earn your pay what s the last from lunnon lad. we re goin there to day. 
troopin troopin give another cheer ere s to english woman an a quart of english beer. the colonel an the regiment an all who ve get to stay gawd s mercy strike em gentle whoop. we re goin ome to day. we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
the widow s party. 
where have you be this while away johnnie johnnie. long with the rest on a picnic lay johnnie my johnnie aha. they call u out of the barrack yard to gawd know where from gosport hard and you can t refuse when you get the card and the widow give the party. bugle. ta rara ra ra rara. 
what do you get to eat and drink johnnie johnnie. stand water a thick a ink johnnie my johnnie aha. a bite o beef that be three year store a bite o mutton a tough a a board and a fowl we kill with a sergeant s sword when the widow give the party. 
what do you do for knife and fork johnnie johnnie. we carry em with u wherever we walk johnnie my johnnie aha. and some be slice and some be halve and some be crimp and some be carve and some be gutted and some be starve when the widow give the party. 
what ha you do with half your mess johnnie johnnie. they couldn t do more and they wouldn t do le johnnie my johnnie aha. they eat their whack and they drink their fill and i think the ration ha make them ill for half my comp ny s lie still where the widow give the party. 
how do you get away away johnnie johnnie. on the broad o my back at the end o the day johnnie my johnnie aha. i come away like a bleedin toff for i get four nigger to carry me off a i lay in the bight of a canvas trough when the widow give the party. 
what be the end of all the show johnnie johnnie. ask my colonel for i don t know johnnie my johnnie aha. we break a king and we build a road a court house stand where the reg ment go. and the river s clean where the raw blood flow when the widow give the party. bugle. ta rara ra ra rara. 
ford o kabul river. 
kabul town s by kabul river blow the bugle draw the sword there i lef my mate for ever wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river up and brimmin an there s arf a squadron swimmin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town s a blast place blow the bugle draw the sword strewth i sha n t forget be face wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. keep the cross stake beside you an they will surely guide you cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be sun and dust blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha sooner drownded fust stead of im beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. you can ear the or threshin you can ear the men a splashin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be ours to take blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha leave it for be sake im that leave me by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. it s none so bloomin dry there. ain t you never comin nigh there cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town ll go to hell blow the bugle draw the sword fore i see him live an well im the best beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. gawd elp em if they blunder for their boot ll pull em under by the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
turn your orse from kabul town blow the bugle draw the sword im an arf my troop be down down an drownded by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river low an fallin but it ain t no use o callin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
gentleman ranker. 
to the legion of the lose one to the cohort of the damn to my brother in their sorrow overseas sing a gentleman of england cleanly breed machinely cram and a trooper of the empress if you please. yea a trooper of the force who ha run his own six horse and faith he go the pace and go it blind and the world be more than kin while he hold the ready tin but to day the sergeant s something le than kind. we re poor little lamb who ve lose our way baa. baa. baa. we re little black sheep who ve go astray baa aa aa. gentleman ranker out on the spree damn from here to eternity god ha mercy on such a we baa. yah. bah. 
oh it s sweet to sweat through stable sweet to empty kitchen slop and it s sweet to hear the tale the trooper tell to dance with blowzy housemaid at the regimental hop and thrash the cad who say you waltz too well. yes it make you cock a hoop to be rider to your troop and brand with a blast worst spur when you envy o how keenly one poor tommy be cleanly who black your boot and sometimes call you sir. 
if the home we never write to and the oath we never keep and all we know most distant and most dear across the snore barrack room return to break our sleep can you blame u if we soak ourselves in beer. when the drunken comrade mutter and the great guard lantern gutter and the horror of our fall be write plain every secret self reveal on the ache white wash ceiling do you wonder that we drug ourselves from pain. 
we have do with hope and honour we be lose to love and truth we be drop down the ladder ring by ring and the measure of our torment be the measure of our youth. god help u for we know the bad too young. our shame be clean repentance for the crime that bring the sentence our pride it be to know no spur of pride and the curse of reuben hold u till an alien turf enfold u and we die and none can tell them where we die. we re poor little lamb who ve lose our way baa. baa. baa. we re little black sheep who ve go astray baa aa aa. gentleman ranker out on the spree damn from here to eternity god ha mercy on such a we baa. yah. bah. 
route marchin. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s sunny plain a little front o christmas time an just be ind the rain. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be rowdy dowdy dow. kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. oh there s them injian temple to admire when you see there s the peacock round the corner an the monkey up the tree an there s that rummy silver grass a wavin in the wind an the old grand trunk a trailin like a rifle sling be ind. while it s best foot first. 
at half past five s revelly an our tent they down must come like a lot of button mushroom when you pick em up at ome. but it s over in a minute an at six the column start while the woman and the kiddy sit an shiver in the cart. an it s best foot first. 
oh then it s open order an we light our pipe an sing an we talk about our ration an a lot of other thing an we think o friend in england an we wonder what they re at an ow they would admire for to hear u sling the bat. an it s best foot first. it s none so bad o sunday when you re lyin at your ease to watch the kite a wheelin round them feather eaded tree for although there ain t no woman yet there ain t no barrick yard so the orficers go shootin an the men they play at card. till it s best foot first. 
so ark an eed you rookie which be always grumblin sore there s worse thing than marchin from umballa to cawnpore. an if your eel be blister an they feel to urt like ell you drop some tallow in your sock an that will make em well. for it s best foot first. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s coral strand eight undred fightin englishman the colonel and the band. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be rowdy dowdy dow. kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. 
shillin a day. 
my name be o kelly i ve hear the revelly from birr to bareilly from leeds to lahore hong kong and peshawur lucknow and etawah and fifty five more all endin in pore. black death and his quickness the depth and the thickness of sorrow and sickness i ve know on my way but i m old and i m nervi i m cast from the service and all i deserve be a shillin a day. chorus. shillin a day bloomin good pay lucky to touch it a shillin a day. 
oh it drive me half crazy to think of the day i go slap for the ghazi my sword at my side when we ride hell for leather both squadron together that didn t care whether we live or we die. but it s no use despairin my wife must go charin an me commissairin the pay bill to good so if me you be old in the wet and the cold by the grand metropold win t you give me a letter. full chorus. give im a letter can t do no good late troop sergeant major an run with a letter. think what e s be think what e s see think of his pension an. 
gawd save the queen. 
second series. 
bob. 
there s a little red face man which be bob ride the tall orse e can our bob if it buck or kick or rear e can sit for twenty year with a smile round both be ear can t yer bob. 
then ere s to bob bahadur little bob bob bob. e s or pukka kandaharder fightin bob bob bob. e s the dook of aggy chel. e s the man that do u well an we ll follow im to ell win t we bob. 
if a limber s slip a trace ook on bob. if a marker s lose be place dress by bob. for e s eye all up be coat an a bugle in be throat an you will not play the goat under bob. 
e s a little down on drink chaplain bob. but it keep u out clink don t it bob. so we will not complain tho e s water on the brain if e lead u straight again blue light bob. 
if you stand im on be head father bob you could spill a quart o lead out bob. e s be at it thirty year an amassin souveneers in the way o slug an spear ain t yer bob. 
what e doe not know o war gen ral bob you can arst the shop next door can t they bob. oh e s little but he s wise. e s a terror for be size an e doe not advertise do yer bob. 
now they ve make a bloomin lord out bob which be but be fair reward weren t it bob. so e ll wear a coronet where be elmet use to set. but we know you win t forget will yer bob. 
then ere s to bob bahadur little bob bob bob. pocket wellin ton an arder fightin bob bob bob. this ain t no bloomin ode but you ve elped the soldier s load an for benefit bestow bless yer bob. 
back to the army again. 
i m ere in a ticky ulster an a break billycock at a layin on to the sergeant i don t know a gun from a bat. my shirt s doin duty for jacket my sock s stickin out o my boot an i m learnin the damn old goose step along o the new recruit. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. don t look so ard for i aven t no card i m back to the army again. 
i do my six year service. er majesty sez. good day you ll please to come when you re ring for an ere s your ole back pay. an fourpence a day for baccy an bloomin gen rous too. an now you can make your fortune the same a your orf cer do. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. ow do i learn to do right about turn. i m back to the army again. 
a man o four an twenty that asn t learn of a trade beside reserve agin him e d good be never make. i try my luck for a quarter an that be enough for me an i think of er majesty s barricks an i think i d go an see. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. tisn t my fault if i dress when i alt i m back to the army again. 
the sergeant arst no question but e wink the other eye e sez to me shun. an i shunt the same a in day go by. for e saw the set o my shoulder an i couldn t elp oldin straight when me an the other rookie come under the barrick gate. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo would ha think i could carry an port. i m back to the army again. 
i take my bath an i wallered for gawd i need it so. i smelt the smell o the barricks i eard the bugle go. i eard the foot on the gravel the foot o the men what drill an i sez to my flutterin eart string i sez to em peace be still. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo say i know when the jumner be due. i m back to the army again. 
i carry my slop to the tailor. i sez to im none o your lip. you tight em over the shoulder an loose em over the ip for the set o the tunic s orrid. an e sez to me strike me dead but i think you be use to the business. an so e do what i say. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. rather too free with my fancy. wot me. i m back to the army again. 
next week i ll ave em fit. i ll buy me a swagger cane. they ll let me free o the barricks to walk on the hoe again in the name o william parson that use to be edward clay an any pore beggar that want it can draw my fourpence a day. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. out o the cold an the rain sergeant out o the cold an the rain. 
oo s there. a man that s too good to be lose you a man that be andled an make a man that will pay what e cost you in learnin the others their trade parade. you re droppin the pick o the army because you don t elp em remain but drive em to cheat to get out o the street an back to the army again. 
bird of prey march. 
march. the mud be cakin good about our trousies. front. eye front an watch the colour casin s drip. front. the face of the woman in the ouse ain t the kind o thing to take aboard the ship. 
cheer. an we ll never march to victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
wheel. oh keep your touch. we re goin round a corner. time. mark time an let the men be ind u close. lord. the transport s full an alf our lot not on er cheer o cheer. we re go off where no one know. 
march. the devil s none so black a e be paint. cheer. we ll ave some fun before we re put away. alt an and er out a woman s go and faint. cheer. get on gawd elp the marry men to day. 
hoi. come up you ungry beggar to yer sorrow. ear them say they want their tea an want it quick. you win t have no mind for slinger not to morrow no. you ll put the tween deck stave out bein sick. 
alt. the marry kit a all to go before u. course it s block the bloomin gangway up again. cheer o cheer the orse guard watchin tender o er u keepin u since eight this mornin in the rain. 
stick in eavy marchin order sop and wringin sick before our time to watch er eave an fall ere s your appy ome at last an stop your singin. alt. fall in along the troop deck. silence all. 
cheer. for we ll never live to see no bloomin victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. one cheer more. the jackal an the kite ave an ealthy appetite an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. the eagle an the crow they be waitin ever so an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. yes the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
soldier an salor too. 
a i be spittin into the ditch aboard o the crocodile i seed a man on a man o war get up in the reg lars style. e be scrapin the paint from off of er plate an i sez to im oo be you. sez e i m a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. now be work begin by gawd know when and be work be never through. e isn t one o the reg lar line nor e isn t one of the crew. e s a kind of a giddy harumfrodite soldier an sailor too. 
an after i meet im all over the world a doin all kind of thing like landin isself with a gatlin gun to talk to them eathen king. e sleep in an ammick instead of a cot an e drill with the deck on a slew an e sweat like a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. for there isn t a job on the top o the earth the beggar don t know nor do you can leave im at night on a bald man s ead to paddle be own canoe e s a sort of a bloomin cosmopolouse soldier an sailor too. 
we ve fight em in trooper we ve fight em in dock and drink with em in betweens when they call u the seasick scull ry maid an we call em the as marine. but when we be down for a double fatigue from woolwich to bernardmyo we send for the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they think for emselves an they steal for emselves and they never ask what s to do but they re camp an feed an they re up an feed before our bugle s blow. ho. they ain t no limpin procrastitutes soldier an sailor too. 
you may say we be fond of an arness cut or ootin in barrick yard or startin a board school mutiny along o the onion guard. but once in a while we can finish in style for the end of the earth to view the same a the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they come of our lot they be brother to u. they be beggar we d meet an know. yes barrin an inch in the chest an the arm they be double o me an you. for they weren t no special chrysanthemum soldier an sailor too. 
to take your chance in the thick of a rush with fire all about be nothing so bad when you ve cover to and an leave an likin to shout. but to stand an be still to the birken ead drill be a damn tough bullet to chew an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. their work be do when it adn t begin. they be young nor me an you. their choice it be plain between drownin in eaps an bein mop by the screw so they stand an be still to the birken ead drill soldier an sailor too. 
we re most of u liar we re arf of u thief an the rest be a rank a can be but once in a while we can finish in style. which i ope it win t appen to me. but it make you think good o you an your friend an the work you may ave to do when you think o the sinkin victorier s jolly soldier an sailor too. now there isn t no room for to say ye don t know they ave prove it plain and true that whether it s widow or whether it s ship victorier s work be to do an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. 
sapper. 
when the water be dry an the earth do appear. it s all one say the sapper. the lord he create the engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
when the flood come along for an extra monsoon twas noah construct the first pontoon to the plan of her majesty s etc. 
but after fatigue in the wet an the sun old noah get drink which he wouldn t ha do if he d train with etc. 
when the tower o babel have mix up men s bat some clever civilian be manage that an none of etc. 
when the jew have a fight at the foot of a hill young joshua order the sun to stand still for he be a captain of engineer etc. 
when the child of israel make brick without straw they be learnin the regular work of our corp the work of etc. 
for ever since then if a war they would wage behold u a shinin on history s page first page for etc. 
we lay down their siding an help em entrain an we sweep up their mess through the bloomin campaign in the style of etc. 
they send u in front with a fuse an a mine to blow up the gate that be rush by the line but bend by etc. 
they send u behind with a pick an a spade to dig for the gun of a bullock brigade which ha ask for etc. 
we work under escort in trouser and shirt an the heathen they plug u tail up in the dirt annoy etc. 
we blast out the rock an we shovel the mud we make em good road an they roll down the khud report etc. 
we make em their bridge their well an their hut an the telegraph wire the enemy cut an it s blame on etc. 
an when we return an from war we would cease they grudge u adornin the billet of peace which be keep for etc. 
we build em nice barrack they swear they be bad that our colonel be methodist marry or mad insultin etc. 
they haven t no manner nor gratitude too for the more that we help em the le will they do but mock at etc. 
now the line s but a man with a gun in his hand an cavalry s only what horse can stand when help by etc. 
artillery move by the leave o the grind but we be the men that do something all round for we be etc. 
i have state it plain an my argument s thus. it s all one say the sapper. there s only one corp which be perfect that s u. an they call u her majesty s engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
that day. 
it get beyond all order an it get beyond all ope. it get to shammin wound an retirin from the alt. ole company be lookin for the near road to slope. it be just a bloomin knock out an our fault. 
now there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. an i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
we be sick o bein punish an we let em know it too. an a company commander up an it u with a sword an some one shout ook it. an it come to sove ki poo an we chuck our rifle from u o my gawd. 
there be thirty dead an wound on the grind we wouldn t keep no there wasn t more than twenty when the front begin to go. but christ. along the line o flight they cut u up like sheep an that be all we gain by doin so. 
i eard the knife be ind me but i dursn t face my man nor i don t know where i go to cause i didn t alt to see till i eard a beggar squealin out for quarter a e run an i think i know the voice an it be me. 
we be idin under bedstead more than arf a march away. we be lyin up like rabbit all about the countryside. an the major curse be maker cause e live to see that day an the colonel break be sword acrost an cry. 
we be rotten fore we start we be never discipline. we make it out a favour if an order be obey. yes every little drummer ad be right an wrong to mind so we have to pay for teachin an we pay. 
the paper id it andsome but you know the army know. we be put to groomin camel till the regiment withdraw an they give u each a medal for subduin england s foe an i ope you like my song because it s true. 
an there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. but i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
the men that fight at minden. 
a song of instruction. 
the men that fight at minden they be rookie in their time so be them that fight at waterloo. all the ole command yuss from minden to maiwand they be once dam sweep like you. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad for we ll make you soldier yet. 
the men that fight at minden they ad stock beneath their chin six inch igh an more. but fatigue it be their pride and they would not be deny to clean the cook ouse floor. 
the men that fight at minden they have anarchistic bomb serve to em by name of and grenade. but they get it in the eye. same a you will by an by. when they club their field parade. 
the men that fight at minden they ad button up an down two an twenty dozen of em tell. but they didn t grouse an shirk at an hour s extry work they keep em bright a gold. 
the men that fight at minden they be arm with musketoons also they be drill by alberdiers. i don t know what they be but the sergeant take good care they wash be ind their ear. 
the men that fight at minden they ad ever cash in and which they do not bank nor save but spend it gay an free on their better such a me for the good advice i give. 
the men that fight at minden they be civil yuss they be never didn t talk o right an wrong but they get it with the toe. same a you will get it so. for interrupt song. 
the men that fight at minden they be several other thing which i don t remember clear. but that s the reason why now the six year men be dry the rook will stand the beer. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad for we ll make you soldier yet. 
soldier yet if you ve get it in you all for the sake of the core. soldier yet if we ave to skin you run an get the beer johnny raw johnny raw. ho. run an get the beer johnny raw. 
cholera camp. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp it s bad than forty fight. we re dyin in the wilderness the same a isrulites. it s before u an be ind u an we cannot get away an the doctor s just report we ve ten more to day. 
oh strike your camp an go the bugle s callin the rain be fallin the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. the band s a doin all she know to cheer u. the chaplain s go and pray to gawd to ear u to ear u o lord for it s a killin of u so. 
since august when it start it s be stickin to our tail though they ve ad u out by march an they ve ad u back by rail. but it run a fast a troop train and we cannot get away. an the sick list to the colonel make ten more to day. 
there ain t no fun in woman nor there ain t no bite to drink. it s much too wet for shootin we can only march and think. an at evenin down the nullah we can ear the jackal say get up you rotten beggar you ve ten more to day. 
twould make a monkey cough to see our way o doin thing lieutenant takin company an captain takin wing an lance actin sergeant eight file to obey for we ve lot o quick promotion on ten death a day. 
our colonel s white an twitterly e get no sleep nor food but muck about in orspital where nothing doe no good. e send u eaps o comfort all buy from be pay but there aren t much comfort andy on ten death a day. 
our chaplain s get a banjo an a skinny mule e ride an the stuff e say an sing u lord it make u split our side. with be black coat tail a bobbin to ta ra ra boom d ay. e s the proper kind o padre for ten death a day. 
an father victor elps im with our roman catholicks he know an eap of irish song an rummy conjurin trick. an the two they work together when it come to play or pray. so we keep the ball a rollin on ten death a day. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp we ve get it ot an sweet. it ain t no christmas dinner but it s elped an we must eat. we ve go beyond the funkin cause we ve find it doesn t pay an we re rockin round the districk on ten death a day. 
then strike your camp an go the rain be fallin the bugle s callin. the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. an them that do not like it they can lump it an them that cannot stand it they can jump it. we ve get to die somewhere some way some ow we might a well begin to do it now. then number one let down the tent pole slow knock out the peg an old the corner so. fold in the fly furl up the rope an stow. oh strike oh strike your camp an go. gawd elp u. 
the lady. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it. i ve rogued an i ve range in my time. i ve ad my pickin o sweet earts an four o the lot be prime. one be an arf caste widow one be a woman at prome one be the wife of a jemadar sais an one be a girl at ome. 
now i aren t no and with the lady for takin em all along you never can say till you ve try em an then you be like to be wrong. there s time when you ll think that you mightn t there s time when you ll know that you might. but the thing you will learn from the yellow an brown they ll elp you a lot with the white. 
i be a young un at oogli shy a a girl to begin. aggie de castrer she make me an aggie be clever a sin. old than me but my first un more like a mother she be show me the way to promotion an pay an i learn about woman from er. 
then i be order to burma actin in charge o bazar an i get me a tiddy live eathen through buyin supply off er pa. funny an yellow an faithful doll in a teacup she be but we live on the square like a true marry pair an i learn about woman from er. 
then we be shift to neemuch. or i might ha be keepin er now. an i take with a shiny she devil the wife of a nigger at mhow. teach me the gipsy folk bolee. kind o volcano she be for she knife me one night cause i wish she be white and i learn about woman from er. 
then i come ome in the trooper long of a kid o sixteen girl from a convent at meerut the straight i ever ave see. love at first sight be er trouble she didn t know what it be. an i wouldn t do such cause i like er too much but i learn about woman from er. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it an now i must pay for my fun for the more you ave know o the others the le will you settle to one. an the end of it s sittin and thinkin an dreamin hell fire to see. so be warn by my lot. which i know you will not. an learn about woman from me. 
what do the colonel s lady think. nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you get to a man in the case they re like a a row of pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. 
bill awkins. 
a anybody see bill awkins. now ow in the devil would i know. e s take my girl out walkin an i ve get to tell im so gawd bless im. i ve get to tell im so. 
d yer know what e s like bill awkins. now what in the devil would i care. e s the livin breathin image of an organ grinder s monkey with a pound of grease in be air gawd bless im. an a pound o grease in be air. 
an s pose you meet bill awkins now what in the devil ud ye do. i d open be cheek to be chin strap buckle an bung up be both eye too gawd bless im. an bung up be both eye too. 
look ere where e come bill awkins. now what in the devil will you say. it isn t fit an proper to be fightin on a sunday so i ll pas im the time o day gawd bless im. i ll pas im the time o day. 
the mother lodge. 
there be rundle station master an beazeley of the rail an ackman commissariat an donkin o the jail. an blake conductor sargent our master twice be e with im that keep the europe shop old framjee eduljee. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
we d bola nath accountant an saul the aden jew an din mohammed draughtsman of the survey office too. there be babu chuckerbutty an amir singh the sikh an castro from the fittin shed the roman catholick. 
we adn t good regalia an our lodge be old an bare but we know the ancient landmark an we kep em to a hair. an lookin on it backwards it often strike me thus there ain t such thing a infidel excep per aps it s u. 
for monthly after labour we d all sit down and smoke. we dursn t give no banquits l a brother s caste be break. an man on man get talkin religion an the rest an every man comparin of the god e know the best. 
so man on man get talkin an not a brother stir till mornin wake the parrot an that dam brain fever bird. we d say twas ighly curious an we d all ride ome to bed with mo ammed god an shiva changin picket in our ead. 
full oft on guv ment service this rovin foot ath press an bore fraternal greetin s to the lodge east an west accordin a command from kohat to singapore but i wish that i might see them in my mother lodge once more. 
i wish that i might see them my brother black an brown with the trichies smellin pleasant an the hog darn passin down. an the old khansamah snorin on the bottle khana floor like a master in good stand with my mother lodge once more. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
follow me ome. 
there be no one like im orse or foot nor any o the gun i know. an because it be so why o course e go an die which be just what the best men do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish up your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the big drum callin follow me follow me ome. 
be mare she neigh the ole day long she paw the ole night through an she win t take er fee cause o waitin for be step which be just what a beast would do. 
be girl she go with a bombardier before er month be through. an the banns be up in church for she s get the beggar hook which be just what a girl would do. 
we fight bout a dog last week it be no more than a round or two. but i strook im cruel ard an i wish i adn t now which be just what a man can t do. 
e be all that i ad in the way of a friend an i ve ad to find one new. but i d give my pay an stripe for to get the beggar back which it s just too late to do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish off your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the fife a crawlin. follow me follow me ome. 
take im away. e s go where the best men go. take im away. an the gun wheel turnin slow. take im away. there s more from the place e come. take im away with the limber an the drum. 
for it s three round blank an follow me an it s thirteen rank an follow me. oh passin the love o woman follow me follow me ome. 
the sergeant s weddin. 
e be warn agin er that s what make im look. she be warn agin im that be why she take. wouldn t ear no reason go an do it blind. we know all about em they ve get all to find. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. grey gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
what s the use o tellin arf the lot she s be. e s a bloomin robber an e keep canteen. ow do e get be buggy. gawd you needn t ask. make be forty gallon out of every cask. 
watch im with be air cut count u filin by win t the colonel praise be pop u lar i ty. we ave score to settle score for more than beer. she s the girl to pay em that be why we re ere. 
see the chaplain thinkin. see the woman smile. twig the marry winkin a they take the aisle. keep your side arm quiet dressin by the band. ho. you oly beggar cough be ind your and. 
now it s do an over ear the organ squeak voice that breathe o er eden ain t she get the cheek. white an laylock ribbon think yourself so fine. i d pray gawd to take yer fore i make yer mine. 
escort to the kerridge wish im luck the brute. chuck the slipper after. pity tain t a boot. bowin like a lady blushin like a lad oo would say to see em both be rotten bad. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. grey gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
the jacket. 
through the plague of egyp we be chasin arabi gettin down an shovin in the sun. an you might ave call u dirty an you might ha call u dry an you might ave eard u talkin at the gun. but the captain ad be jacket an the jacket it be new. orse gunner listen to my song. an the wettin of the jacket be the proper thing to do nor we didn t keep im waitin very long. 
one day they give u order for to shell a sand redoubt loadin down the axle arm with case. but the captain know be dooty an he take the cracker out an he put some proper liquor in it place. an the captain saw the shrapnel which be six an thirty clear. orse gunner listen to my song. will you draw the weight sez e or will you draw the beer. an we didn t keep im waitin very long. for the captain etc. 
then we trot gentle not to break the bloomin glass though the arabites ad all their range mark. but we dursn t ardly gallop for the most be bottle bass an we d dream of it since we be disembark. so we fire economic with the shell we ad in and. orse gunner listen to my song. but the beggar under cover ad the impidence to stand an we couldn t keep em waitin very long. and the captain etc. 
so we finish arf the liquor. an the captain take champagne. an the arabites be shootin all the while. an we leave our wound appy with the empty on the plain an we use the bloomin gun for pro jec tile. we limber up an gallop there be nothin else to do. orse gunner listen to my song. an the battery come a boundin like a boundin kangaroo but they didn t watch u comin very long. a the captain etc. 
we be goin most extend we be drivin very fine an the arabites be loosin igh an wide till the captain take the glassy with a rattlin right incline an we drop upon their eads the other side. then we give em quarter such a adn t up and cut. orse gunner listen to my song. an the captain stand a limberful of fizzy somethin brutt but we didn t leave it fizz very long. for the captain etc. 
we might ha be court martialled but it all come out all right when they signal u to join the main command. there be every round expend there be every gunner tight an the captain wave a corkscrew in be and. but the captain ad be jacket etc. 
the eathen. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. e keep be side arm awful. e leaf em all about an then come up the regiment an poke the eathen out. 
all along o dirtiness all along o mess all along o doin thing rather more or le all along of abby nay kul an hazar ho mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. the young recruit be aughty e draf s from gawd know where. they bid im show be stockin s an lay be mattress square. e call it bloomin nonsense e doesn t know no more an then up come be company an kick im round the floor. 
the young recruit be ammered e take it very ard. e ang be ead an mutter e sulk about the yard. e talk o cruel tyrant e ll swing for by an by an the others ear an mock im an the boy go orf to cry. 
the young recruit be silly e think o suicide. e s lose be gutter devil. e asn t get be pride. but day by day they kick im which elps im on a bite till e find isself one mornin with a full an proper kit. 
gettin clear o dirtiness gettin do with mess gettin shut o doin thing rather more or le. not so fond of abby nay kul nor hazar ho learn to keep be rifle an isself jus so. 
the young recruit be appy e throw a chest to suit. you see im grow mustache. you ear im slap be boot. e learn to drop the bloody from every word e sling an e show an ealthy brisket when e strip for bar an ring. 
the cruel tyrant sergeant they watch im arf a year. they watch im with be comrade they watch im with be beer. they watch im with the woman at the regimental dance and the cruel tyrant sergeant send be name along for lance. 
an now e s arf o nothin an all a private yet be room they up an rag im to see what they will get. they rag im low an cunnin each dirty trick they can but e learn to sweat be temper an e learn to sweat be man. 
an last a colour sergeant a such to be obey e school be men at cricket e tell em on parade. they see em quick an andy uncommon set an smart an so e talk to orficers which ave the core at eart. 
e learn to do be watchin without it showin plain. e learn to save a dummy an shove im straight again. e learn to check a ranker that s buyin leave to shirk. an e learn to make men like im so they ll learn to like their work. 
an when it come to marchin he ll see their sock be right an when it come to action e show em ow to sight. e know their way of thinkin and just what s in their mind. e know when they be takin on an when they ve fell be ind. 
e know each talkin corpril that lead a squad astray. e feel be innards eavin be bowel givin way. e see the blue white face all tryin ard to grin an e stand an wait an suffer till it s time to cap em in. 
an now the hugly bullet come peckin through the dust an no one want to face em but every beggar must. so like a man in iron which isn t glad to go they move em off by company uncommon stiff an slow. 
of all be five year schoolin they don t remember much excep the not retreatin the step an keepin touch. it look like teachin waste when they duck an spread an op but if e adn t learn em they d be all about the shop. 
an now it s oo go backward. an now it s oo come on. and now it s get the doolies an now the captain s go. an now it s bloody murder but all the while they ear be voice the same a barrick drill a shepherdin the rear. 
e s just a sick a they be be eart be like to split but e work em work em work em till he feel em take the bite. the rest be oldin steady till the watchful bugle play an e lift em lift em lift em through the charge that win the day. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. the eathen in be blindness must end where e begin but the backbone of the army be the non commission man. 
keep away from dirtiness keep away from mess. don t get into doin thing rather more or le. let s ha do with abby nay kul an hazar ho. mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. 
the shut eye sentry sez the junior orderly sergeant to the senior orderly man. our orderly orf cer s hokee mut you elp im all you can. for the wine be old and the night be cold an the best we may go wrong so fore e git to the sentry box you pas the word along. 
so it be round. what round. at two of a frosty night e s oldin on by the sergeant s sash but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. oh ain t e drippin tight. e ll need an affidavit pretty badly by an by. 
the moon be white on the barricks the road be white an wide an the orderly orf cer take it all an the ten foot ditch beside. an the corporal pull an the sergeant push an the three they dance along but i d shut my eye in the sentry box so i didn t see nothin wrong. 
though it be round. what round. o corporal old im up. e s usin be cap a it shouldn t be use but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. ho shun the foamin cup. e ll need etc. 
twas after four in the mornin. we ad to stop the fun an we send im ome on a bullock cart with be belt an stock undo. but we sluice im down an we wash im out an a first class job we make when we save im smart a a bombardier for six o clock parade. 
it ad be round. what round. oh shove im straight again. e s usin be sword for a bicycle but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. e s call me darlin jane. e ll need etc. 
the drill be long an eavy the sky be ot an blue an be eye be wild an be air be wet but be sergeant pull im through. our men be good old trusty they d do it on their ead. but you ought to ave eard em markin time to ide the thing e say. 
for it be right flank wheel. for alt an stand at ease. an leave extend. for centre close. o marker shut your eye. an it be ere sir ere. before the colonel see. so he need affidavit pretty badly by an by. 
there be two an thirty sergeant there be corp rals forty one there be just nine undred rank an file to swear to a touch o sun. there be me e d kiss in the sentry box a i ave not tell in my song but i take my oath which be bible truth i adn t see nothin wrong. 
there s them that s ot an aughty there s them that s cold an ard but there come a night when the best get tight and then turn out the guard. i ve see them ide their liquor in every kind o way but most depend on makin friend with privit thomas a. 
when it be round. what round. e s breathin through be nose. e s reelin rollin roarin tight but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. an that s the way it go. we ll elp im for be mother an e ll elp u by an by. 
mary pity woman. 
you call yourself a man for all you use to swear an leave me a you can my certain shame to bear. i ear. you do not care you do the bad you know. i eat you grinnin there. ah gawd i love you so. 
nice while it last an now it be over tear out your eart an good bye to your lover. what s the use o grievin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. 
it aren t no false alarm the finish to your fun. you you ave brung the arm an i m the ruin one. an now you ll off an run with some new fool in tow. your eart. you aven t none. ah gawd i love you so. 
when a man be tire there be naught will bind im. all e solemn promise e will shove be ind im. what s the good o prayin for the wrath to strike im. mary pity woman. when the rest be like im. 
what ope for me or it. what s leave for u to do. i ve walk with men a bite but this but this be you. so elp me christ it s true. where can i ide or go. you coward through and through. ah gawd i love you so. 
all the more you give em the le be they for givin love lie dead an you cannot kiss im livin. down the road e lead you there be no returnin. mary pity woman. but you re late in learnin. 
you d like to treat me fair. you can t because we re pore. we d starve. what do i care. we might but this be shore. i want the name no more the name an line to show an not to be an ore. ah gawd i love you so. 
what s the good o pleadin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. sleep on be promise an wake to your sorrow. mary pity woman. for we sail to morrow. 
for to admire. 
the injian ocean set an smile so sof so bright so bloomin blue. there aren t a wave for mile an mile excep the jiggle from the screw. the ship be swep the day be do the bugle s go for smoke and play. an black agin the settin sun the lascar sing hum deckty hai. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
i see the sergeant pitchin quoit i ear the woman laugh an talk i spy upon the quarter deck the orficers an lydies walk. i think about the thing that be an lean an look acrost the sea till spite of all the crowd ship there s no one lef alive but me. 
the thing that be which i ave see in barrick camp an action too i tell them over by myself an sometimes wonder if they re true. for they be odd most awful odd but all the same now they be o er there must be eaps o plenty such an if i wait i ll see some more. 
oh i ave come upon the book an frequent break a barrick rule an stand beside an watch myself be avin like a bloomin fool. i pay my price for findin out nor never grutched the price i pay but sit in clink without my boot admirin ow the world be make. 
be old a crowd upon the beam an umped above the sea appear old aden like a barrick stave that no one s light for year an year. i pass by that when i begin an i go ome the road i come a time expire soldier man with six year service to be name. 
my girl she say oh stay with me. my mother eld me to er breast. they ve never write none an so they must ave go with all the rest with all the rest which i ave see an find an know an meet along. i cannot say the thing i feel and so i sing my evenin song. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
