soldier three. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
love o woman from many invention the big drink draf the mutiny of the maverick the man who be only a subaltern in the matter of a private the lose legion from many invention the drum of the fore and aft judson and the empire from many invention a conference of the power from many invention. 
love o woman. 
a lamentable tale of thing do long ago and ill do. 
the horror the confusion and the separation of the murderer from his comrade be all over before i come. there remain only on the barrack square the blood of man call from the grind. the hot sun have dry it to a dusky gold beater skin film crack lozenge wise by the heat and a the wind rise each lozenge rise a little curl up at the edge a if it be a dumb tongue. then a heavy gust blow all away down wind in grain of dark colour dust. it be too hot to stand in the sunshine before breakfast. the men be all in barrack talk the matter over. a knot of soldier wife stand by one of the entrance to the marry quarter while inside a woman shriek and rave with wicked filthy word. 
a quiet and well conduct sergeant have shoot down in broad daylight just after early parade one of his own corporal have then return to barrack and sit on a cot till the guard come for him. he would therefore in due time be hand over to the high court for trial. further but this he could hardly have consider in his scheme of revenge he would horribly upset my work. for the report of the trial would fall on me without a relief. what that trial would be like i know even to weariness. there would be the rifle carefully uncleaned with the foul mark about breech and muzzle to be swear to by half a dozen superfluous private. there would be heat reek heat till the wet pencil slip sideways between the finger. and the punkah would swish and the pleader would jabber in the verandah and his command officer would put in certificate of the prisoner s moral character while the jury would pant and the summer uniform of the witness would smell of dye and soap. and some abject barrack sweeper would lose his head in cross examination and the young barrister who always defend soldier case for the credit that they never bring him would say and do wonderful thing and would then quarrel with me because i have not report him correctly. at the last for he surely would not be hang i might meet the prisoner again rule blank account form in the central jail and cheer him with the hope of a wardership in the andamans. 
the indian penal code and it interpreter do not treat murder under any provocation whatever in a spirit of jest. sergeant rain would be very lucky indeed if he get off with seven year i think. he have sleep the night upon his wrong and have kill his man at twenty yard before any talk be possible. that much i know. unless therefore the case be doctor a little seven year would be his least. and i fancy it be exceedingly well for sergeant rain that he have be like by his company. 
that same even no day be so long a the day of a murder i meet ortheris with the dog and he plunge defiantly into the middle of the matter. i ll be one o the witness say he. i be in the verandah when mackie come along. e come from mr. rain s quarter. quigley parson an trot they be in the inside verandah so they couldn t ave eard nothing. sergeant rain be in the verandah talkin to me an mackie e come along acrost the square an e sez well sez e ave they push your elmet off yet sergeant. e sez. an at that rain e catch be breath an e sez my gawd i can t stand this. sez e an e pick up my rifle an shoot mackie. see. 
but what be you do with your rifle in the out verandah an hour after parade. 
cleanin er say ortheris with the sullen brassy stare that always go with his choice lie. 
he might a well have say that he be dance naked for at no time do his rifle need hand or rag on her twenty minute after parade. still the high court would not know his routine. 
be you go to stick to that on the book. i ask. 
yes. like a bloomin leech. 
all right i don t want to know any more. only remember that quigley parson and trot couldn t have be where you say without hear something. and there s nearly certain to be a barrack sweeper who be knock about the square at the time. there always be. 
twasn t the sweeper. it be the beastie. e s all right. 
then i know that there be go to be some spirit doctor and i felt sorry for the government advocate who would conduct the prosecution. 
when the trial come on i pity him more for he be always quick to lose his temper and make a personal matter of each lose cause. rain s young barrister have for once put aside his unslaked and well passion for alibi and insanity have forswear gymnastics and firework and work soberly for his client. mercifully the hot weather be yet young and there have be no flagrant case of barrack shooting up to the time. and the jury be a good one even for an indian jury where nine men out of every twelve be accustom to weigh evidence. ortheris stand firm and be not shake by any cross examination. the one weak point in his tale the presence of his rifle in the out verandah go unchallenged by civilian wisdom though some of the witness could not help smile. the government advocate call for the rope. contend throughout that the murder have be a deliberate one. time have pass he argue for that reflection which come so naturally to a man whose honour be lose. there be also the law ever ready and anxious to right the wrong of the common soldier if in deed wrong have be do. but he doubt much whether there have be any sufficient wrong. causeless suspicion over long brood upon have lead by his theory to deliberate crime. but his attempt to minimise the motive fail. the most disconnect witness know have know for week the cause of offence and the prisoner who naturally be the last of all to know groan in the dock while he listen. the one question that the trial circle round be whether rain have fire under sudden and blind provocation give that very morning and in the sum up it be clear that ortheris s evidence tell. he have contrive most artistically to suggest that he personally hat the sergeant who have come into the verandah to give him a talk to for insubordination. in a weak moment the government advocate ask one question too many beggin your pardon sir ortheris reply e be callin me a dam impudent little lawyer. the court shake. the jury bring it in a kill but with every provocation and extenuation know to god or man and the judge put his hand to his brow before give sentence and the adam s apple in the prisoner s throat go up and down mercury pump before a cyclone. 
in consideration of all consideration from his command officer s certificate of good conduct to the sure loss of pension service and honour the prisoner would get two year to be serve in india and there need be no demonstration in court. the government advocate scowl and pick up his paper. the guard wheel with a clash and the prisoner be relax to the secular arm and drive to the jail in a break down ticca gharri. 
his guard and some ten or twelve military witness be le important be order to wait till what be officially call the cool of the even before march back to cantonment. they gather together in one of the deep red brick verandah of a disused lock up and congratulate ortheris who bore his honour modestly. i send my work into the office and join them. ortheris watch the government advocate drive off lunch. 
that s a nasty little bald eaded little butch that be he say. e don t please me. e s get a colley dog wot do though. i m goin up to murree in a week. that dawg ll bring fifteen rupee anywheres. 
you have good spend it in mass say terence unbuckle his belt for he have be on the prisoner s guard stand helmeted and bolt up right for three long hour. 
not me say ortheris cheerfully. gawd ll put it down to b comp ny s barrick damage one o these day. you look strap terence. 
faith i m not so young a i be. that guard mountin wear on the sole av the fut and this he sniff contemptuously at the brick verandah be a hard set a standin. 
wait a minute. i ll get the cushion out of my cart i say. 
strewth sofies. we re go it gay say ortheris a terence drop himself section by section on the leather cushion say prettily may you niver want a soft place wheriver you go an power to share utt wid a frind. another for yourself. that s good. it let me sit long way. stanley pas me a poipe. augrrh. an that s another man go all to piece bekaze av a woman. i must ha be on forty or fifty prisoner gyards first an last an i hate ut new ivry time. 
let s see. you be on losson s lancey s dugard s and stebbins s that i can remember i say. 
ay an before that an before that score av thim he answer with a wear smile. ti betther to die than to live for thim though. whin rain come out he ll be changin his kit at the jail now he ll think that too. he shud ha shoot himself an the woman by right an make a clean bill av all. now he s leave the woman she tuk tay wid dinah sunday go last an he s leave himself. mackie s the lucky man. he s probably get it hot where he be i venture for i know something of the dead corporal s record. 
be sure av that say terence spit over the edge of the verandah. but fwhat he ll get there be light marchin ordher to fwhat he d ha get here if he d live. 
surely not. he d have go on and forget like the others. 
do ye know mackie well sorr. say terence. 
he be on the pattiala guard of honour last winter and i go out shoot with him in an ekka for the day and i find him rather an amuse man. 
well he ll ha get shut av amusemints excipt turnin from wan side to the other these few year come. i know mackie an i ve see too many to be mistuk in the muster av wan man. he might ha go on an forget a you say sorr but be a man wid an educashin an he use ut for his schames an the same educashin an talk an all that make him able to do fwhat he have a mind to wid a woman that same wud turn back again in the long run an tear him alive. i can t say fwhat that i mane to say bekaze i don t know how but mackie be the spit an livin image av a man that i saw march the same march all but. an twas bad for him that he do not come by mackie s ind. wait while i remimber now. twas fwhin i be in the black tyrone an he be draft u from portsmouth. an fwhat be his misbegotten name. larry larry tighe ut be. an wan of the draft say he be a gentleman ranker an larry tuk an three part kill him for say so. an he be a big man an a strong man an a handsome man an that tell heavy in practice wid some woman but takin thim by an large not wid all. yet twas wid all that larry deal all for he ud put the comether on any woman that tread the green earth av god an he know ut. like mackie that s roastin now he know ut. an niver do he put the comether on any woman save an excipt for the black shame. ti not me that shud be talkin dear know dear know but the most av my mi misalli nces be for pure devilry an mighty sorry i have be whin harm come. an time an again wid a girl ay an a woman too for the matter av that whin i have see by the eye av her that i be makin more throuble than i talk i have hild off an let be for the sake av the mother that bore me. but larry i m thinkin he be suckle by a she devil for he niver let wan go that come nigh to listen to him. twas his business a if it might ha bin sinthry go. he be a good soldier too. now there be the colonel s govern an he a privit too. that be never know in barricks. an wan av the major s maid and she be promise to a man. an some more outside. an fwhat ut be amongst u we ll never know till judgment day. twas the nature av the baste to put the comether on the best av thim not the pretty by any manner av mane but the like av such woman a you cud lay your band on the book an swear there be niver think av foolishness in. an for that very reason mark you he be niver catch. he come close to ut wanst or twice but catch he niver be an that cost him more at the ind than the beginnin. he talk to me more than most bekaze he tould me barrin the accident av my educashin i d ha be the same kind av divil he be. an be ut like he wud say houldin his head high be ut like that i d iv be thrapped. for fwhat be i when all s say an do. he sez. a damn privit sez he. an be ut like think you that thim i know wud be connect wid a privit like me. number tin thousand four hundred an sivin he sez grinnin. i know by the turn av his spache whin he be not takin care to talk rough that he be a gentleman ranker. 
i do not undherstan ut at all i sez. but i know sez i that the divil look out av your eye an i ll have no share wid you. a little fun by way av amusemint where t will do no harm larry be right and fair but i be mistake if ti any amusemint to you i sez. 
you be much mistake he sez. an i counsel you not to judge your better. 
my betthers. i sez. god help you larry. there s no betther in this. ti all bad a you will find for yoursilf. 
you re not like me he say tossin his head. 
praise the saint i be not i sez. fwhat i have do i have do an be crool sorry for. fwhin your time come sez i ye ll remimber fwhat i say. 
an whin that time come sez he i ll come to you for ghostly consolation father terence an at that he wint off afther some more divil s business for to get expayrience he tould me. he be wicked rank wicked wicked a all hell. i m not construct by nature to go in fear av any man but begad i be afraid av larry. he d come in to barricks wid his cap on three hair an lie on his cot and stare at the ceilin and now an again he d fetch a little laugh the like av a splash in the bottom av a well an by that i know he be schamin new wickedness an i d be afraid. all this be long an long ago but ut hild me straight for a while. 
i tould you do i not sorr that i be caress an pershuaded to lave the tyrone on account av a throuble. 
something to do with a belt and a man s head wasn t it. terence have never give me the exact fact. 
it be. faith ivry time i go on prisoner s gyard in coort i wondher fwhy i be not where the pris ner be. but the man i struk tuk it in fair fight an he have the good sinse not to die. considher now fwhat wud ha come to the arrmy if he have. i be enthreated to exchange an my commandin orf cer plead wid me. i wint not to be disobligin an larry tould me he be powerful sorry to lose me though fwhat i d do to make him sorry i do not know. so to the ould rig mint i come lavin larry to go to the divil his own way an niver expectin to see him again except a a shootin case in barricks. who s that lavin the compound. terence s quick eye have catch sight of a white uniform skulk behind hedge. 
the sergeant s go visit say a voice. 
thin i command here an i will have no sneakin away to the bazar an huntin for you wid a pathrol at midnight. nalson for i know ut s you come back to the verandah. 
nalson detect slink back to his fellow. there be a grumble that die away in a minute or two and terence turn on the other side go on. 
that be the last i saw av larry for a while. exchange be the same a death for not thinkin an by token i marry dinah an that keep me from remimberin ould time. thin we wint up to the front an ut tear my heart in tu to lave dinah at the depot in pindi. consequint whin be at the front i fight circumspectuous till i warrmed up an thin i fight double tide. you remimber fwhat i tould you in the gyard gate av the fight at silver s theatre. 
wot s that about silver s theayter. say ortheris quickly over his shoulder. 
nothin little man. a tale that ye know. a i be sayin afther that fight u av the ould rig mint an the tyrone be all mix together takin shtock ay the dead an av coorse i wint about to find if there be any man that remimbered me. the second man i come acrost an how i d miss him in the fight i do not know be larry an a fine man he look but oulder by token that he have a call to be. larry sez i how be ut wid you. 
ye re callin the wrong man he sez wid his gentleman s smile. larry ha be dead these three year. they call him love o woman now he sez. by that i know the ould divil be in him yet but the ind av a fight be no time for the beginnin av confession so we sit down an talk av time. 
they tell me you re a marry man he sez puff slow at his poipe. be ye happy. 
i will be whin i get back to depot i sez. ti a reconnaissance honeymoon now. 
i m marry too he sez puffin slow an more slow an stopperin wid his forefinger. 
sind you happiness i sez. that s the best hearin for a long time. 
be ye av that opinion. he sez. an thin he begin talkin av the campaign. the sweat av silver s theatre be not dhry upon him an he be prayin for more work. i be well contint to lie and listen to the cook pot lid. 
whin he get up off the grind he shtaggered a little an laned over all twist. 
ye ve get more than ye bargain for i sez. take an inventory larry. ti like you re hurt. 
he turn round stiff a a ramrod an damn the eye av me up an down for an impartinent irish face ape. if that have be in barricks i d ha stretch him an no more say. but twas at the front an afther such a fight a silver s theatre i know there be no callin a man to account for his timpers. he might a well ha kiss me. aftherwards i be well please i keep my fistes home. then our captain crook cruik na bul leen come up. he d be talkin to the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone. we re all cut to windystraws he sez but the tyrone be damn short for noncom. go you over there mulvaney an be deputy sergeant corp ral lance an everything else ye can lay hand on till i bid you stop. 
i wint over an tuk hould. there be wan sergeant leave standin an they d pay no heed to him. the remnint be me an twas high time i come. some i talk to an some i do not but before night the bhoys av the tyrone stud to attention begad if i suck on my poipe above a whishper. betune you an me an bob i be commandin the company an that be what cruik have thransferred me for an the little orf cer bhoy know ut and i know ut but the comp ny do not. and there mark you be the vartue that no money an no dhrill can buy the vartue av the ould soldier that know his orf cer s work an doe ut at the salute. 
thin the tyrone wid the ould rig mint in touch be sint maraudin and prowlin acrost the hill promishcuous an unsatisfactory. ti my privit opinion that a gin ral doe not know half his time fwhat to do wid three quarthers his command. so he shquats on his hunker an bid thim run round an round forninst him while he considhers on ut. whin by the process av nature they get sejuced into a big fight that be none av their seekin he sez. obsarve my shuparior janius. i mean ut to come so. we run round an about an all we get be shootin into the camp at night an rushin empty sungars wid the long bradawl an bein hit from behind rock till we be wear out all except love o woman. that puppy dog business be mate an dhrink to him. begad he cud niver get enough av ut. me well knowin that it be just this desultorial campaignin that kill the best men an suspicionin that if i be cut the little orf cer bhoy wud expind all his men in thryin to get out i wud lie most powerful doggo whin i hear a shoot an curl my long leg behind a bowlder an run like blaze whin the grind be clear. faith if i lead the tyrone in rethreat wanst i lead them forty time. love o woman wud stay pottin an pottin from behind a rock and wait till the fire be heavy an thin stand up an fire man height clear. he wud lie out in camp too at night snipin at the shadow for he niver tuk a mouthful av slape. my commandin orf cer save his little soul. cud not see the beauty av of my strategims an whin the ould rig mint cross u an that be wanst a week he d throt off to cruik wid his big blue eye a round a saucer an lay an information against me. i hear thim wanst talkin through the tent wall an i nearly laugh. 
he run run like a hare sez the little orf cer bhoy. ti demoralisin my men. 
ye damn little fool sez cruik laughin. he s larnin you your business. have ye be rush at night yet. 
no sez the child wishful that he have be. 
have you any wound. sez cruik. 
no he sez. there be no chanst for that. they follow mulvaney too quick he sez. 
fwhat more do you want thin. sez cruik. terence be bloodin you neat an handy he sez. he know fwhat you do not an that s that there s a time for ivrything. he ll not lead you wrong he sez but i d give a month s pay to larn fwhat he think av you. 
that keep the babe quiet but love o woman be pokin at me for ivrything i do an specially my manoeuvre. 
mr. mulvaney he sez wan evenin very contempshus you re growin very jeldy wid your foot. among gentleman he sez among gentleman that s call no pretty name. 
among privits ti different i sez. get back to your tent. i m sergeant here i sez. 
there be just enough in the voice av me to tell him he be playin wid his life betune his teeth. he wint off an i notice that this man that be contempshus set off from the halt wid a shunt a tho he be bein kick behind. that same night there be a paythan picnic in the hill about an firin into our tent fit to wake the livin dead. lie down all i sez. lie down an kape still. they ll no more than waste ammunition. 
i hear a man s foot on the grind an thin a tini joinin in the chorus. i d be lyin warm thinkin av dinah an all but i crup out wid the bugle for to look round in case there be a rush an the tini be flashin at the fore ind av the camp an the hill near by be fair flickerin wid long range fire. undher the starlight i behold love o woman settin on a rock wid his belt and helmet off. he shout wanst or twice an thin i hear him say. they should ha get the range long ago. maybe they ll fire at the flash. thin he fire again an that dhrew a fresh volley and the long slug that they chew in their teeth come floppin among the rock like tree toad av a hot night. that s good sez love o woman. oh lord how long how long. he sez an at that he light a match an hold ut above his head. 
mad think i mad a a coot an i tuk wan stip forward an the nixt i know be the sole av my boot flappin like a cavalry gydon an the funny bone av my toe tinglin. twas a clane cut shoot a slug that niver touch sock or hide but set me bare fut on the rock. at that i tuk love o woman by the scruff an throw him under a bowlder an whin i sit down i hear the bullet patterin on that good stone. 
ye may dhraw your own wicked fire i sez shakin him but i m not goin to be kilt too. 
ye ve come too soon he sez. ye ve come too soon. in another minute they cud not ha miss me. mother av god he sez fwhy do ye not lave me be. now ti all to do again an he hide his face in his hand. 
so that s it i sez shakin him again. that s th manin av your disobeyin ordhers. 
i dare not kill meself he sez rockin to and fro. my own hand wud not let me die and there s not a bullet this month past wud touch me. i m to die slow he sez. i m to die slow. but i m in hell now he sez shriekin like a woman. i m in hell now. 
god be good to u all i sez for i saw his face. will ye tell a man the throuble. if ti not murder maybe we ll mend it yet. 
at that he laugh. d you remimber fwhat i say in the tyrone barricks about comin to you for ghostly consolation. i have not forget he sez. that come back an the rest av my time be on me now terence. i ve fight ut off for month an month but the liquor will not bite any more terence he sez. i can t get dhrunk. 
thin i know he speak the truth about bein in hell for whin liquor doe not take hould the sowl av a man be rotten in him. but me bein such a i be fwhat could i say to him. 
di monds an pearl he begin again. di monds and pearl i have throw away wid both hand an fwhat have i leave. oh fwhat have i leave. 
he be shakin an thremblin up against my shouldher an the slug be singin overhead an i be wonderin whether my little bhoy wud have sinse enough to kape his men quiet through all this firin. 
so long a i do not think sez love o woman so long i do not see i wud not see but i can now what i ve lose. the time an the place he sez an the very word i say whin ut please me to go off alone to hell. but thin even thin he sez wrigglin tremenjus i wud not ha be happy. there be too much behind av me. how cud i ha believe her swear oath me that have bruk mine again an again for the sport av seein thim cry. an there be the others he sez. oh what will i do what will i do. he rock back an forward again an i think he be cryin like wan av the woman he deal wid. 
the full half av fwhat he say be brigade ordhers to me but from the rest an the remnint i suspicioned somethin av his throuble. twas the judgmint av god have grup the heel av him a i tould him twould in the tyrone barricks. the slug be singin over our rock more an more an i sez for to divart him. let bad alone i sez. they ll be thryin to rush the camp in a minut. 
i have no more than say that whin a paythan man crep up on his belly wid his knife betune his teeth not twinty yard from u. love o woman jump up an fetch a yell an the man saw him an run at him. he d leave his rifle under the rock. wid the knife. love o woman niver turn a hair but by the live power for i saw ut a stone twist under the paythan man s foot an he come down full sprawl an his knife wint tinklin acrost the rock. i tould you i be cain sez love o woman. fwhat s the use av killin him. he s an honest man by compare. 
i be not dishputin about the morils av paythans that tide so i dhropped love o woman s burt acrost the man s face an hurry into camp i sez for this may be the first av a rush. 
there be no rush afther all though we wait undher arm to give thim a chanst. the paythan man must ha come alone for the mischief an afther a while love o woman wint back to his tint wid that quare lurchin sind off in his walk that i cud niver undherstand. begad i pity him an the more bekaze he make me think for the rest av the night av the day whin i be confirm corp ril not actin lef tenant an my thought be not good. 
ye can undherstand that afther that night we come to talkin a dale together an bite by bite ut come out fwhat i d suspicioned. the whole av his carr in s on an divilmints have come back on him hard a liquor come back whin you ve be on the dhrink for a wake. all he d say an all he d do an only he cud tell how much that be come back an there be niver a minut s peace in his sowl. twas the horror widout any cause to see an yet an yet fwhat be i talkin av. he d ha take the horror wid thankfulness. beyon the repentince av the man an that be beyon the natur av man awful awful to behould. there be more that be bad than any repentince. av the score an score that he call over in his mind. an they be dhrivin him mad. there be mark you wan woman av all an she be not his wife that cut him to the quick av his marrow. twas there he say that he d throw away di monds an pearl past count an thin he d begin again like a blind byle in an oil mill walkin round an round to considher. him that be beyond all touch av be happy this side hell. how happy he wud ha be wid her. the more he considhered the more he d consate himself that he d lose mighty happiness an thin he wud work ut all backwards an cry that he niver cud ha be happy anyways. 
time an time an again in camp on p rade ay an in action i ve see that man shut his eye an duck his head a you wud duck to the flicker av a bay nit. for twas thin he tould me that the think av all he d miss come an stud forninst him like red hot iron. for what he d do wid the others he be sorry but he do not care. but this wan woman that i ve tould of by the hilt av god she make him pay for all the others twice over. niver do i know that a man cud enjure such tormint widout his heart crackin in his rib an i have be terence turn the pipe stem slowly between his teeth i have be in some black cell. all i iv suffer tho be not to be talk of alongside av him. an what could i do. paternoster be no more than pea for his sorrow. 
evenshually we finish our prom nade acrost the hill and thank to me for the same there be no casualty an no glory. the campaign be comin to an ind an all the rig mint be bein draw together for to be sint back home. love o woman be mighty sorry bekaze he have no work to do an all his time to think in. i ve hear that man talkin to his belt plate an his side arm while he be soldierin thim all to prevint himself from thinkin an ivry time he get up afther he have be settin down or wint on from the halt he d start wid that kick an traverse that i tould you of his leg sprawlin all way to wanst. he wud niver go see the docthor tho i tould him to be wise. he d curse me up an down for my advice. but i know he be no more a man to be reckon wid than the little bhoy be a commandin orf cer so i let his tongue run if it aised him. 
wan day twas on the way back i be walkin round camp wid him an he stop an strike grind wid his right fut three or four time doubtful. fwhat be ut. i sez. be that grind. sez he. an while i be thinkin his mind be goin up come the docthor who d be anatomisin a dead bullock. love o woman start to go on quick an land me a kick on the knee while his leg be gettin into marchin ordher. 
hould on there sez the docthor. an love o woman s face that be line like a gridiron turn red a brick. 
tention say the docthor. an love o woman stud so. now shut your eye sez the docthor. no ye must not hould by your comrade. 
ti all up sez love o woman try to smile. i d fall docthor an you know ut. 
fall. i sez. fall at attention wid your eye shut. fwhat do you mane. 
the docthor know he sez. i ve hild up a long a i can but begad i m glad ti all do. but i will die slow he sez i will die very slow. 
i cud see by the docthor s face that he be mortial sorry for the man an he ordhered him to hospital. we wint back together an i be dumbstruck. love o woman be cripplin and crumblin at ivry step. he walk wid a hand on my shoulder all slue sideways an his right leg swingin like a lame camel. me not knowin more than the dead fwhat ail him twas just a though the docthor s word have do ut all a if love o woman have but be waitin for the ordher to let go. 
in hospital he sez somethin to the docthor that i could not catch. 
holy shmoke. sez the docthor an who be you to be givin name to your disease. ti ag in all the regulation. 
i ll not be a privit much long sez love o woman in his gentleman s voice an the docthor jump. 
thrate me a a study docthor lowndes he sez. an that be the first time i d iv hear a docthor call his name. 
good bye terence sez love o woman. ti a dead man i be widout the pleasure av dyin. you ll come an set wid me sometimes for the peace av my soul. 
now i have be mind to ask cruik to take me back to the ould rig mint for the fightin be over an i be wear out wid the way av the bhoys in the tyrone. but i shift my will an hild on an wint to set wid love o woman in the hospital. a i have say sorr the man bruk all to little piece undher my hand. how long he have hild up an force himself fit to march i cannot tell but in hospital but two day late he be such a i hardly know. i shuk hand wid him an his grip be fair strong but his hand wint all way to wanst an he cud not button his tunic. 
i ll take long an long to die yet he sez for the way av sin they re like interest in the rig mintal savin s bank sure but a damn long time bein pay. 
the docthor sez to me quiet one day ha tighe there anythin on his mind. he sez. he s burnin himself out. 
how shud i know sorr. i sez a innocent a putty. 
they call him love o woman in the tyrone do they not. he sez. i be a fool to ask. be wid him all you can. he s houldin on to your strength. 
but. what ail him docthor i sez. 
they call ut locomotus attack u he sez bekaze sez he ut attack u like a locomotive if ye know fwhat that mane. an ut come sez he lookin at me ut come from bein call love o woman. 
you re jokin docthor i sez. 
jokin. sez he. if iv you feel that you ve get a felt sole in your boot instead av a government bull s wool come to me he sez an i ll show you whether ti a joke. 
you would not belave ut sorr but that an seein love o woman overtuk widout warnin put the cowld fear av attack u on me so strong that for a week an more i be kickin my toe against stone an stump for the pleasure av feelin them hurt. 
an love o woman lay in the cot. he might have go down wid the wound before an before but he ask to stay wid me. aud fwhat there be in his mind have full swing at him night an day an ivry hour av the day an the night an he wither like beef ration in a hot sun an his eye be like owl eye an his hand be mut nous. 
they be gettin the rig mint away wan by wan the campaign bein inded but a ushuil they be behavin a if niver a rig mint have be move before in the mem ry av man. now fwhy be that sorr. there s fightin in an out nine month av the twelve somewhere in the army. there ha be for year an year an year an i wud ha think they d begin to get the hang av providin for throops. but no. ivry time it s like a girl school meetin a big red bull whin they re goin to church. an mother av god sez the commissariat an the railway an the barrick master fwhat will we do now. the ordhers come to u av the tyrone an the ould rig mint an half a dozen more to go down and there the ordhers stop dumb. we wint down by the special grace av god down the khaiber anyways. there be sick wid u an i m thinkin that some av them be jolt to death in the doolies but they be anxious to be kilt so if they cud get to peshawur alive the sooner. i walk by love o woman there be no marchin an love o woman be not in a stew to get on. if i d only ha die up there. sez he through the doolie curtain an then he d twist up his eye an duck his head for the thought that come to him. 
dinah be in depot at pindi but i wint circumspectuous for well i know ti just at the rump ind av all thing that his luck turn on a man. by token i ad see a dhriver of a batthery goin by at a trot singin home swate home at the top av his shout and takin no heed o his bridle hand i have see that man dhrop under the gun in the middle of a word and come out by the limber like like a frog on a pave stone. no. i wud not hurry though god know my heart be all in pindi. love o woman saw fwhat be in my mind an go on terence h sez i know fwhat s waitin for you. i will not i sez. twill kape a little yet. 
ye know the turn of the pas forninst jumrood and the nine mile road on the flat to peshawur. all peshawur be along that road day and night waitin for frinds men woman childer and band. some av the throops be camp round jumrood an some go on to peshawur to get away down to their cantonmints. we come through in the early mornin havin be awake the night through and we dhruv sheer into the middle av the mess. mother av glory will i ever forget that comin back. the light be not fair lift and the furst we hear be for ti my delight av a shiny night frum a band that think we be the second four comp ny av the lincolnshire. at that we be force to sind them a yell to say who we be an thin up wint the wearin av the green. it make me crawl all up my backbone not havin take my brequist. thin right smash into our rear come fwhat be leave av the jock elliotts wid four piper an not half a kilt among thim playin for the dear life an swingin their rump like buck rabbit an a native rig mint shriek blue murther. ye niver hear the like. there be men cryin like woman that do an faith i do not blame thim. fwhat bruk me down be the lancer band shinin an spick like angel wid the ould dhrum horse at the head an the silver kettle dhrums an all an all waitin for their men that be behind u. they shtruck up the cavalry canter an begad those poor ghost that have not a sound fut in a throop they answer to ut the men rockin in their saddle. we thried to cheer them a they wint by but ut come out like a big gruntin cough so there must have be many that be feelin like me. oh but i m forgettin. the fly by night be waitin for their second battalion an whin ut come out there be the colonel s horse lead at the head saddle empty. the men fair worship him an he d die at au musjid on the road down. they wait till the remnint av the battalion be up and thin clane against ordhers for who want that chune that day. they wint back to peshawur slow time an tearin the bowils out av ivry man that hear wid the dead march. right across our line they wint an ye know their uniform be a black a the sweep crawlin past like the dead an the other band damnin them to let be. 
little they care. the carpse be wid them an they d ha take ut so through a coronation. our ordhers be to go into peshawur an we wint hot fut past the fly by night not singin to lave that chune behind u. that be how we tuk the road of the other corp. 
twas ringin in my ear still whin i felt in the bone of me that dinah be comin an i hear a shout an thin i saw a horse an a tattoo latherin down the road hell to shplit under woman. i know i know. wan be the tyrone colonel s wife ould beeker s lady her gray hair flyin an her fat round carkiss rowlin in the saddle an the other be dinah that shud ha be at pindi. the colonel s lady she charge at the head av our column like a stone wall an she all but knock beeker off his horse throwin her arm round his neck an blubberin me bhoy. me bhoy. an dinah wheel leave an come down our flank an i let a yell that have suffer inside av me for month and dinah come. will i iv forget that while i live. she d come on pas from pindi an the colonel s lady have lint her the tattoo. they d be huggin an cryin in each other s arm all the long night. 
so she walk along wid her hand in mine askin forty question to wanst an beggin me on the virgin to make oath that there be not a bullet consaled in me unbeknownst somewhere an thin i remimbered love o woman. he be watchin u an his face be like the face av a divil that ha be cook too long. i do not wish dinah to see ut for whin a woman s runnin over wid happiness she s like to be touch for harm aftherwards by the laste little thing in life. so i dhrew the curtain an love o woman lay back and groan. 
whin we march into peshawur dinah wint to barrack to wait for me an me feelin so rich that tide i wint on to take love o woman to hospital. it be the last i cud do an to save him the dust an the smother i turn the doolie men down a road well clear av the rest av the throops an we wint along me talkin through the curtain. av a sudden i hear him say. 
let me look. for the mercy av hiven let me look. i have be so tuk up wid gettin him out av the dust and thinkin of dinah that have not keep my eye about me. there be a woman ridin a little behind av u an talkin ut over wid dinah aftherwards that same woman must ha rid not far on the jumrood road. dinah say that she have be hoverin like a kite on the leave flank av the column. 
i halt the doolie to set the curtain an she ride by walkin pace an love o woman s eye wint afther her a if he would fair haul her down from the saddle. 
follow there be all he sez but i niver hear a man spake in that voice before or since an i know by those two wan word an the look in his face that she be di monds an pearl that he d talk av in his disthresses. 
we follow till she turn into the gate av a little house that stud near the edwardes s gate. there be two girl in the verandah an they run in whin they saw u. faith at long eye range ut do not take me a wink to see fwhat kind av house ut be. the throops bein there an all there be three or four such but aftherwards the polis bid them go. at the verandah love o woman sez catchin his breath stop here an thin an thin wid a grunt that must ha tear the heart up from his stomach he swing himself out av the doolie an my troth he stud up on his foot wid the sweat pourin down his face. if mackie be to walk in here now i d be le tuk back than i be thin. where he d dhrawn his power from god know or the divil but t be a dead man walkin in the sun wid the face av a dead man and the breath av a dead man hold up by the power an the leg an the arm of the carpse obeyin ordhers. the woman stud in the verandah. she d be a beauty too though her eye be sink in her head an she look love o woman up an down terrible. an she sez kickin back the tail av her habit an she sez fwhat be you doin here marry man. 
love o woman say nothin but a little froth come to his lip an he wipe ut off wid his hand an look at her an the paint on her an look an look an look. 
an yet she sez wid a laugh. do you hear mr. rain laugh whin mackie die. ye do not. well for you. an yet she sez who but you have betther right sez she. you teach me the road. you show me the way she sez. ay look she sez for ti your work. you that tould me d you remimber it. that a woman who be false to wan man cud be false to two. i have be that she sez that an more for you always say i be a quick learner elli. look well she sez for it be me that you call your wife in the sight av god long since. an she laugh. 
love o woman stud still in the sun widout answerin. thin he groan an cough to wanst an i think twas the death rattle but he niver tuk his eye off her face not for a wink. ye cud ha put her eyelash through the fly av an e. p. tent they be so long. 
fwhat do you do here. she sez word by word that have take away my joy in my man this five year go that have break my rest an kill my body an damn my soul for the sake av seem how twas do. do your expayrience aftherwards bring you acrost any woman that give more than i do. wud i not ha die for you an wid you elli. ye know that man. if ever your lyin sowl saw truth in ut life ye know that. 
an love o woman lift up his head and say i know an that be all. while she be spakin the power hild him up parade set in the sun an the sweat dhropped undher his helmet. twas more an more throuble for him to talk an his mouth be runnin twistways. 
fwhat do you do here. she sez an her voice whit up. twas like bell tollin before. time be whin you be quick enough wid your word you that talk me down to hell. be ye dumb now. an love o w omen get his tongue an sez simple like a little child may i come in. he sez. 
the house be open day an night she sez wid a laugh. an love o woman duck his head an hild up his hand a tho he be gyardin. the power be on him still it hild him up still for by my sowl a i ll never save ut he walk up the verandah step that have be a livin corpse in hospital for a month. 
an now. she sez lookin at him. an the red paint stud lone on the white av her face like a bull s eye on a target. 
he lift up his eye slow an very slow an he look at her long an very long an he tuk his spache betune his teeth wid a wrench that shuk him. 
i m dyin aigypt dyin he sez. ay those be his word for i remimber the name he call her. he be turnin the death colour but his eye niver rowled. they be set set on her. widout word or warnin she open her arm full stretch an here. she sez. oh fwhat a golden mericle av a voice ut be. die here she sez. an love o woman dhropped forward an she hild him up for she be a fine big woman. 
i have no time to turn bekaze that minut i hear the sowl quit him tear out in the death rattle an she lay him back in a long chair an she sez to me misther soldier she sez will ye not go in an talk to wan av the girl. this sun s too much for him. 
well i know there be no sun he d iv see but i cud not spake so i wint away wid the empty doolie to find the docthor. he d be breakfastin an lunchin ever since we d come in an he be a full a a tick. 
faith ye ve get dhrunk mighty soon he sez whin i d tould him to see that man walk. barrin a puff or two av life he be a corpse before we leave jumrood. i ve a great mind he sez to confine you. 
there s a dale av liquor runnin about docthor i sez solemn a a hard boil egg. maybe ti so but will ye not come an see the corpse at the house. 
ti dishgraceful he sez that i would be expect to go to a place like that. be she a pretty woman. he sez an at that he set off double quick. 
i cud see that the two be in the verandah be i d leave them an i know by the hang av her head an the noise av the crow fwhat have happen. twas the first and the last time that i d ever know woman to use the pistol. they dread the shoot a a rule but di monds an pearl she do not she do not. 
the docthor touch the long black hair av her head. twas all loose upon love o woman s chest. an that clear the liquor out av him. he stud considherin a long time his hand in his pocket an at last he sez to me here s a double death from naturil cause most naturil cause. an in the presint state av affair the rig mint will be thankful for wan grave the le to dig. issiwasti he sez issiwasti privit mulvaney these two will be bury together in the civil cemet ry at my expinse an may the good god he sez make it so much for me whin my time come. go to your wife he sez. go an be happy. i ll see to this all. 
i leave him still considherin. they be bury in the civil cemet ry together wid a church of england service. there be too many buryin s thin to ask question an the docthor he run away wid major major van dyce s lady that year he saw to ut all. fwhat the right an the wrong av love o woman an di monds an pearl be i niver know an i will niver know. but i ve tould ut a i come acrost ut here an there in little piece. so be fwhat i be an knowin fwhat i know that s fwhy i say in this shootin case here mackie that s dead an in hell be the lucky man. there be time sorr whin ti betther for the man to die than to live an by consequince forty million time betther for the woman. 
h up there. say ortheris. it s time to go. the witness and guard form up in the thick white dust of the parch twilight and swing off march easy and whistle. down the road to the green by the church i could hear ortheris the black book lie still uncleansed on his lip set with a fine sense of the fitness of thing the shrill quick step that run. 
oh do not despise the advice of the wise learn wisdom from those that be old and don t try for thing that be out of your reach an that s what the girl tell the soldier soldier. soldier. oh that s what the girl tell the soldier. 
the big drink draf. 
we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you mu pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yet on a fourp ny bite a a time expire ma a an. 
barrack room ballad. 
an awful thing ha happen. my friend private mulvaney who go home in the serapis time expire not very long ago ha come back to india a a civilian. it be all dinah shadd s fault. she could not stand the poky little lodging and she miss her servant abdullah more than word could tell. the fact be that the mulvaneys have be out here too long and have lose touch of england. 
mulvaney know a contractor on one of the new central india line and write to him for some sort of work. the contractor say that if mulvaney could pay the passage he would give him command of a gang of cooly for old sake s sake. the pay be eighty five rupee a month and dinah shadd say that if terence do not accept she would make his life a baste purgathory. therefore the mulvaneys come out a civilian which be a great and terrible fall. though mulvaney try to disguise it by say that he be k nel on the railway line an a consequinshal man. 
he write me an invitation on a tool indent form to visit him. and i come down to the funny little construction bungalow at the side of the line. dinah shadd have plant pea about and about and nature have spread all manner of green stuff round the place. there be no change in mulvaney except the change of clothe which be deplorable but could not be help. he be stand upon his trolly harangue a gangman and his shoulder be a well drill and his big thick chin be a clean shave a ever. 
i m a civilian now say mulvaney. cud you tell that i be iv a martial man. don t answer sorr av you re strainin betune a complimint an a lie. there s no houldin dinah shadd now she s get a house av her own. go inside an dhrink tay out av chiny in the drrrrawin room an thin we ll dhrink like christian undher the tree here. scutt ye naygur folk. there s a sahib come to call on me an that s more than he ll iv do for you onless you run. get out an go on pilin up the earth quick till sundown. 
when we three be comfortably settle under the big sisham in front of the bungalow and the first rush of question and answer about private ortheris and learoyd and old time and place have die away mulvaney say reflectively glory be there s no p rade to morrow an no bun head corp ril bhoy to give you his lip. an yit i don t know. ti harrd to be something ye niver be an niver mean to be an all the ould day shut up along wid your paper. eyah. i m growin rusty an ti the will av god that a man mustn t serve his quane for time an all. 
he help himself to a fresh peg and sigh furiously. 
let your beard grow mulvaney say i and then you win t be trouble with those notion. you ll be a real civilian. 
dinah shadd have tell me in the draw room of her desire to coax mulvaney into let his beard grow. twas so civilian like say poor dinah who hat her husband s hanker for his old life. 
dinah shadd you re a dishgrace to an honust clane scrap man. say mulvaney without reply to me. grow a beard on your own chin darlint and lave my razor alone. they re all that stand betune me and dis ri pect ability. av i didn t shave i wud be torminted wid an outrajis thurrst. for there s nothin so dhryin to the throat a a big billy goat beard waggin undher the chin. ye wudn t have me dhrink always dinah shadd. by the same token you re kapin me crool dhry now. let me look at that whiskey. 
the whiskey be lend and return but dinah shadd who have be just a eager a her husband in ask after old friend rent me with. 
i take shame for you sorr come down here though the saint know you re a welkim a the daylight whin you do come an upsettin terence s head wid your nonsense about about fwhat s much betther forget. he bein a civilian now an you niver be aught else. can you not let the arrmy rest. ti not good for terence. 
i take refuge by mulvaney for dinah shadd ha a temper of her own. 
let be let be say mulvaney. ti only wanst in a way i can talk about the ould day. then to me ye say dhrumshticks be well an his lady tu. i niver know how i like the gray garron till i be shut av him an asia. dhrumshticks be the nickname of the colonel command mulvaney s old regiment. will you be seein him again. you will. thin tell him mulvaney s eye begin to twinkle tell him wid privit mister terence interrupt dinah shadd. now the divil an all his angils an the firmament av hiven fly away wid the mister an the sin av makin me swear be on your confession dinah shadd. privit i tell ye. wid privit mulvaney s best obedience that but for me the last time expire wud be still pullin hair on their way to the sea. 
he throw himself back in the chair chuckle and be silent. 
mr. mulvaney i say please take up the whiskey and don t let him have it until he ha tell the story. 
dinah shadd dexterously whip the bottle away say at the same time ti nothing to be proud av and thus capture by the enemy mulvaney spake. 
twas on chuseday week. i be behaderin round wid the gang on the bankmint i ve teach the hopper how to kape step an stop screechin whin a head gangman come up to me wid about two inch av shirt tail hang round his neck an a disthressful light in his oi. sahib sez he there s a reg mint an a half av soldier up at the junction knockin red cinder out av ivrything an ivrybody. they thried to hang me in my cloth he sez an there will be murdher an ruin an rape in the place before nightfall. they say they re comin down here to wake u up. what will we do wid our woman folk. 
fetch my throlly. sez i. my heart s sick in my rib for a wink at anything wid the quane s uniform on ut. fetch my throlly an six av the jildiest men and run me up in shtyle. 
he tuk his best coat say dinah shadd reproachfully. 
twas to do honour to the widdy. i cud ha do no le dinah shadd. you and your digresshins interfere wid the coorse av the narrative. have you iv considhered fwhat i wud look like wid me head shave a well a me chin. you bear that in your mind dinah darlin. 
i be throllied up six mile all to get a shquint at that draf. i know twas a spring draf goin home for there s no rig mint hereabouts more s the pity. 
praise the virgin. murmur dinah shadd. but mulvaney do not hear. 
whin i be about three quarter av a mile off the rest camp powtherin along fit to burrst i hear the noise av the men an on my sowl sorr i cud catch the voice av peg barney bellowin like a bison wid the belly ache. you remimber peg barney that be in d comp ny a red hairy scraun wid a scar on his jaw. peg barney that clear out the blue light jubilee meetin wid the cook room mop last year. 
thin i know ut be a draf av the ould rig mint an i be conshumed wid sorrow for the bhoy that be in charge. we be harrd scrapin s at any time. do i iv tell you how horker kelley wint into clink nakid a phoebus apollonius wid the shirt av the corp ril an file undher his arrum. an be be a moild man. but i m digresshin. ti a shame both to the rig mint and the arrmy sendin down little orf cer bhoys wid a draf av strong men mad wid liquor an the chanst av gettin shut av india an niver a punishment that s fit to be give right down an away from cantonmints to the dock. ti this nonsinse. whin i be servin my time i m undher the article av war an can be whip on the peg for thim. but whin i ve serve my time i m a reserve man an the article av war haven t any hould on me. an orf cer can t do anythin to a time expire savin confinin him to barricks. ti a wise rig lation bekaze a time expire doe not have any barricks. bein on the move all the time. ti a solomon av a rig lation be that. i wud like to be inthroduced to the man that make ut. ti easy to get colt from a kibbereen horse fair into galway than to take a bad draf over ten mile av counthry. consiquintly that rig lation for fear that the men wud be hurt by the little orf cer bhoy. no matther. the near my throlly come to the rest camp the woilder be the shine an the loud be the voice of peg barney. ti good i be here think i to mysilf for peg alone be employmint for two or three. he bein i well know a cop a a dhrover. 
faith that rest camp be a sight. the tent rope be all skew nose an the peg look a dhrunk a the men fifty av thim the scourin s an rinsin s an divil s lavin s av the ould rig mint. i tell you sorr they be dhrunker than any men you ve ever see in your mortial life. how doe a draf get dhrunk. how doe a frog get fat. they suk ut in through their shkins. 
there be peg barney sittin on the groun in his shirt wan shoe off an wan shoe on whackin a tent peg over the head wid his boot an singin fit to wake the dead. twas no clane song that he sing though. twas the divil s mass. 
what s that. i ask. 
whin a bad egg be shut av the army he sing the divil s mass for a good riddance. an that mane swearin at ivrything from the commandher in chief down to the room corp ril such a you niver in your day hear. some men can swear so a to make green turf crack. have you iv hear the curse in an orange lodge. the divil s mass be ten time bad an peg barney be singin ut whackin the tent peg on the head wid his boot for each man that he curse. a powerful big voice have peg barney an a hard swearer he be whin sober. i stand forninst him an twas not me oi alone that cud tell peg be dhrunk a a coot. good mornin peg i sez whin he dhrew breath afther dursin the adj tint gen ral. i ve put on my best coat to see you peg barney sez i. thin take ut off again sez peg barney latherin away wid the boot. take ut off an dance ye lousy civilian. wid that he begin cursin ould dhrumshticks be so full he dane disrernimbers the brigade major an the judge advokit gen ral. do you not know me peg. sez i though me blood be hot in me wid be call a civilian. an him a decent marry man. wail dinah shadd. i do not sez peg but dhrunk or sober i ll tear the hide off your back wid a shovel whin i ve stop singin. say you so peg barney. sez i. ti clear a mud you ve forget me. i ll assist your autobiography. wid that i stretch peg barney boot an all an wint into the camp. an awful sight ut be. where s the orf cer in charge av the detachment. sez i to scrub greene the manest little worm that ever walk. there s no orf cer ye ould cook sez scrub. we re a bloomin republic. 
be you that. sez i. thin i m o connell the dictator an by this you will larn to kape a civil tongue in your rag box. 
wid that i stretch scrub greene an wint to the orf cer s tent. twas a new little bhoy not wan i d iv see before. he be sittin in his tent purtendin not to ave ear av the racket. 
i salute but for the life av me i mint to shake hand whin i go in. twas the sword hangin on the tent pole change my will. 
can t i help sorr. sez i. ti a strong man s job they ve give you an you ll be wantin help by sundown. he be a bhoy wid bowils that child an a rale gintleman. 
sit down sez he. 
not before my orf cer sez i. an i tould him fwhat my service be. 
i ve hear av you sez he. you tuk the town av lungtungpen nakid. 
faith think i that s honour an glory. for twas lift nint brazenose do that job. i m wid ye sorr sez i if i m av use. they shud niver ha send you down wid the draf. savin your presince sorr i sez ti only lift nint hackerston in the ould rig mint can manage a home draf. 
i ve niver have charge of men like this before sez he playin wid the pen on the table. an i see by the rig lations. 
shut your oi to the rig lations sorr i sez till the throoper s into blue wather. by the rig lations you ve get to tuck thim up for the night or they ll be runnin foul av my cooly an makin a shiverarium half through the counthry. can you trust your noncom sorr. 
yes sez he. 
good sez i. there ll be throuble before the night. be you marchin sorr. 
to the next station sez he. 
betther still sez i. there ll be big throuble. 
can t be too hard on a home draf sez he. the great thing be to get thim in ship. 
faith you ve larnt the half av your lesson sorr sez i but av you shtick to the rig lations you ll niver get thim inship at all at all. or there win t be a rag av kit betune thim whin you do. 
twas a dear little orf cer bhoy an by way av kapin his heart up i tould him fwhat i saw wanst in a draf in egypt. 
what be that mulvaney. say i. 
sivin an fifty men sittin on the bank av a canal laughin at a poor little squidgereen av an orf cer that they d make wade into the slush an pitch thing out av the boat for their lord high mightiness. that make me orf cer bhoy woild wid indignation. 
soft an aisy sorr sez i. you ve niver have your draf in hannd since you leave cantonmints wait till the night an your work will be ready to you. wid your permission sorr i will investigate the camp an talk to me ould frinds. ti no manner av use thryin to shtop the divilmint now. 
wid that i wint out into the camp an inthrojuced mysilf to ivry man sober enough to remimber me. i be some wan in the ould day an the bhoys be glad to see me all excipt peg barney wid a eye like a tomata five day in the bazar an a nose to match. they come round me an shuk me an i tould thim i be in privit employ wid an income av me own an a drrrawin room fit to bate the quane s. an wid me lie an me shtories an nonsinse gin rally i keep em quiet in wan way an another knockin roun the camp. twas bad even thin whin i be the angil av peace. 
i talk to me ould non coms they be sober an betune me an thim we wear the draf over into their tent at the proper time. the little orf cer bhoy he cony round dacint an civil speak a might be. 
rough quarthers men sez he but you can t look to be a comfortable a in barricks. we must make the best av thing. i ve shut my eye to a dale av dog s thricks to day an now there must be no more av ut. 
no more we will. come an have a dhrink me son sez peg barney staggerin where he stud. me little orf cer bhoy kep his timper. 
you re a sulky swine you be sez peg barney an at that the men in the tent begin to laugh. 
i tould you me orf cer bhoy have bowils. he cut peg barney a near a might be on the oi that i d squshed whin we first meet. peg wint spinnin acrost the tent. 
peg him out sorr sez i in a whishper. 
peg him out. sez me orf cer bhoy up loud just a if twas battalion p rade an he pickin his wurrds from the sargint. 
the non coms tuk peg barney a howlin handful he be an in three minut s he be peg out chin down tight dhrawn on his stummick a tent peg to each arm an leg swearin fit to turn a naygur white. 
i tuk a peg an jam ut into his ugly jaw bite on that peg barney i sez. the night be settin frosty an you ll be wantin divarsion before the mornin. but for the rig lations you d be bitin on a bullet now at the thriangles peg barney sez i. 
all the draf be out av their tent watchin barney bein peg. 
ti agin the rig lations. he strook him. screech out scrub greene who be always a lawyer. an some of the men tuk up the shoutin. 
peg out that man. sez me orf cer bhoy niver losin his timper. an the non coms wint in and peg out scrub greene by the side av peg barney. 
i cud see that the draf be comin roun. the men stud not knowin fwhat to do. 
get to your tent. sez me orf cer bhoy. sargint put a sinthry over these two men. 
the men wint back into the tent like jackal an the rest av the night there be no noise at all excipt the stip av the sinthry over the two an scrub greene blubberin like a child. twas a chilly night an faith ut sober peg barney. 
just before revelly me orf cer bhoy come out an sez. loose those men an send thim to their tent. scrub greene wint away widout a word but peg barney stiff wid the cowld stud like a sheep thryin to make his orf cer undherstand he be sorry for playin the goat. 
there be no tucker in the draf whin ut fell in for the march an divil a wurrd about illegality cud i hear. 
i wint to the ould colour sargint and i sez. let me die in glory sez i. i ve see a man this day. 
a man he be sez ould hother. the draf s a sick a a herrin. they ll all go down to the sea like lamb. that bhoy ha the bowils av a cantonmint av gin rals. 
amin sez i an good luck go wid him wheriver he be by land or by sea. let me know how the draf get clear. 
an do you know how they do. that bhoy so i be tould by letter from bombay bully damn em down to the dock till they cudn t call their sowls their own. from the time they leave me oi till they be tween deck not wan av thim be more than dacintly dhrunk. an by the holy article av war whin they wint aboord they cheer him till they cudn t spake an that mark you ha not come about wid a draf in the mlm ry av livin man. you look to that little orf cer bhoy. he ha bowils. ti not ivry child that wud chuck the rig lations to flanders an stretch peg barney on a wink from a brokin an dilapidate ould carkiss like mysilf. i d be proud to serve. 
terence you re a civilian say dinah shadd warningly. 
so i be so i be. be ut likely i wud forget ut. but he be a gran bhoy all the same an i m only a mudtipper wid a hod on me shoulthers. the whiskey s in the heel av your hand sorr. wid your good lave we ll dhrink to the ould rig mint three finger standin up. and we drink. 
the mutiney of the maverick. 
sec. cause or conspire with other person to cause a mutiny or sedition in force belong to her majesty s regular force reserve force auxiliary force or navy. 
when three obscure gentleman in san francisco argue on insufficient premise they condemn a fellow creature to a most unpleasant death in a far country which have nothing whatever to do with the unite state. they foregather at the top of a tenement house in tehama street an unsavoury quarter of the city and there call for certain drink they conspire because they be conspirator by trade officially know a the third three of the i. a. a. an institution for the propagation of pure light not to be confound with any others though it be affiliate to many. the second three live in montreal and work among the poor there. the first three have their home in new york not far from castle garden and write regularly once a week to a small house near one of the big hotel at boulogne. what happen after that a particular section of scotland yard know too well and laugh at. a conspirator detest ridicule. more men have be stab with lucrezia borgia dagger and drop into the thames for laugh at head centre and triangle than for betray secret. for this be human nature. 
the third three conspire over whiskey cocktail and a clean sheet of note paper against the british empire and all that lay therein. this work be very like what men without discernment call politics before a general election. you pick out and discus in the company of congenial friend all the weak point in your opponent organisation and unconsciously dwell upon and exaggerate all their mishap till it seem to you a miracle that the hat party hold together for an hour. 
our principle be not so much active demonstration that we leave to others a passive embarrassment to weaken and unnerve say the first man. wherever an organisation be cripple wherever confusion be throw into any branch of any department we gain a step for those who take on the work. we be but the forerunner. he be a german enthusiast and editor of a newspaper from whose lead article he quote frequently. 
that curse empire make so many blunder of her own that unless we double the year s average i guess it wouldn t strike her anything special have occur say the second man. be you prepare to say that all our resource be equal to blow off the muzzle of a hundred ton gun or spike a ten thousand ton ship on a plain rock in clear daylight. they can beat u at our own game. good join hand with the practical branch. we re in fund now. try a direct scare in a crowd street. they value their greasy hide. he be the drag upon the wheel and an americanise irishman of the second generation despise his own race and hat the other. he have learn caution. 
the third man drink his cocktail and speak no word. he be the strategist but unfortunately his knowledge of life be limit. he pick a letter from his breast pocket and throw it across the table. that epistle to the heathen contain some very concise direction from the first three in new york. it say. 
the boom in black iron ha already affect the eastern market where our agent have be force down the english hold stock among the small buyer who watch the turn of share. any immediate operation such a western bear would increase their willingness to unload. this however cannot be expect till they see clearly that foreign iron master be will to co operate. mulcahy should be dispatch to feel the pulse of the market and act accordingly. maverick be at present the best for our purpose. p. d. q. 
a a message refer to an iron crisis in pennsylvania it be interest if not lucid. a a new departure in organize attack on an outlying english dependency it be more than interest. 
the second man read it through and murmur. 
already. surely they be in too great a hurry. all that dhulip singh could do in india he ha do down to the distribution of his photograph among the peasantry. ho. ho. the paris firm arrange that and he ha no substantial money back from the other power. even our agent in india know he hasn t. what be the use of our organisation waste men on work that be already do. of course the irish regiment in india be half mutinous a they stand. 
this show how near a lie may come to the truth. an irish regiment for just so long a it stand still be generally a hard handful to control be reckless and rough. when however it be move in the direction of musketry fire it become strangely and unpatriotically content with it lot. it ha even be hear to cheer the queen with enthusiasm on these occasion. 
but the notion of tamper with the army be from the point of view of tehama street an altogether sound one. there be no shadow of stability in the policy of an english government and the most sacred oath of england would even if engross on vellum find very few buyer among colony and dependency that have suffer from vain belief. but there remain to england always her army. that cannot change except in the matter of uniform and equipment. the officer may write to the paper demand the head of the horse guard in default of clean redress for grievance. the men may break loose across a country town and seriously startle the publican. but neither officer nor men have it in their composition to mutiny after the continental manner. the english people when they trouble to think about the army at all be and with justice absolutely assure that it be absolutely trustworthy. imagine for a moment their emotion on realise that such and such a regiment be in open revolt from cause directly due to england s management of ireland. they would probably send the regiment to the poll forthwith and examine their own conscience a to their duty to erin. but they would never be easy any more. and it be this vague unhappy mistrust that the i. a. a. be labour to produce. 
sheer waste of breath say the second man after a pause in the council. i don t see the use of tamper with their fool army but it ha be try before and we must try it again. it look well in the report. if we send one man from here you may bet your life that other men be go too. order up mulcahy. 
they order him up a slim slight dark haired young man devour with that blind rancorous hatred of england that only reach it full growth across the atlantic. he have suck it from his mother s breast in the little cabin at the back of the northern avenue of new york. he have be teach his right and his wrong in german and irish on the canal front of chicago. and san francisco hold men who tell him strange and awful thing of the great blind power over the sea. once when business take him across the atlantic he have serve in an english regiment and be insubordinate have suffer extremely. he draw all his idea of england that be not breed by the cheap patriotic print from one iron fisted colonel and an unbend adjutant. he would go to the mine if need be to teach his gospel. and he go a his instruction advise p. d. q. which mean with speed to introduce embarrassment into an irish regiment already half mutinous quarter among sikh peasantry all wear miniature of his highness dhulip singh maharaja of the punjab next their heart and all eagerly expect his arrival. other information equally valuable be give him by his master. he be to be cautious but never to grudge expense in win the heart of the men in the regiment. his mother in new york would supply fund and he be to write to her once a month. life be pleasant for a man who ha a mother in new york to send him two hundred pound a year over and above his regimental pay. 
in process of time thank to his intimate knowledge of drill and musketry exercise the excellent mulcahy wear the corporal s stripe go out in a troopship and join her majesty s royal loyal musketeer commonly know a the maverick because they be masterless and unbranded cattle son of small farmer in county clare shoeless vagabond of kerry herder of ballyvegan much want moonlighter from the bare rainy headland of the south coast officer by o more brady hill kilreas and the like. never to outward seem be there more promise material to work on. the first three have choose their regiment well. it fear nothing that move or talk save the colonel and the regimental roman catholic chaplain the fat father dennis who hold the key of heaven and hell and blare like an angry bull when he desire to be convince. him also it love because on occasion of stress he be use to tuck up his cassock and charge with the rest into the merry of the fray where he always find good man that the saint send him a revolver when there be a fall private to be protect or but this come a an afterthought his own gray head to be guard. 
cautiously a he have be instruct tenderly and with much beer mulcahy open his project to such a he deem fit to listen. and these be one and all of that quaint crook sweet profoundly irresponsible and profoundly lovable race that fight like fiend argue like child reason like woman obey like men and jest like their own goblin of the rath through rebellion loyalty want woe or war. the underground work of a conspiracy be always dull and very much the same the world over. at the end of six month the seed always fall on good grind mulcahy speak almost explicitly hint darkly in the approve fashion at dread power behind him and advise nothing more nor le than mutiny. be they not dog evilly treat. have they not all their own and their national revenge to satisfy. who in these day would do aught to nine hundred men in rebellion. who again could stay them if they break for the sea lick up on their way other regiment only too anxious to join. and afterwards. here follow windy promise of gold and preferment office and honour ever dear to a certain type of irishman. 
a he finish his speech in the dusk of a twilight to his choose associate there be a sound of a rapidly unslung belt behind him. the arm of one dan grady fly out in the gloom and arrest something. then say dan. 
mulcahy you re a great man an you do credit to whoever send you. walk about a bite while we think of it. mulcahy depart elate. he know his word would sink deep. 
why the triple dash asterisk do ye not let me belt him. grunt a voice. 
because i m not a fat head fool. boy ti what he s be drive at these six month our superior corp ril with his education and his copy of the irish paper and his everlasting beer. he s be send for the purpose and that s where the money come from. can ye not see. that man s a gold mine which horse egan here would have destroy with a belt buckle. it would be throw away the gift of providence not to fall in with his little plan. of coorse we ll mut ny till all s dry. shoot the colonel on the parade grind massacree the company officer ransack the arsenal and then boy do he tell you what next. he tell me the other night when he be begin to talk wild. then we re to join with the nigger and look for help from dhulip singh and the russian. 
and spoil the best campaign that ever be this side of hell. danny i d have lose the beer to ha give him the belt he require. 
oh let him go this awhile man. he s get no no constructiveness but that s the egg meat of his plan and you must understand that i m in with it an so be you. we ll want ocean of beer to convince u firmament full. we ll give him talk for his money and one by one all the boy ll come in and he ll have a nest of nine hundred mutineer to squat in an give drink to. 
what make me kill mad be his want u to do what the nigger do thirty year go. that an his pig s cheek in say that other regiment would come along say a kerry man. 
that s not so bad a hintin we should loose off on the colonel. 
colonel be sugar. i d a soon a not put a shoot through his helmet to see him jump and clutch his old horse s head. but mulcahy talk o shootin our comp ny orf cer accidental. 
he say that do he. say horse egan. 
somethin like that anyways. can t ye fancy ould barber brady wid a bullet in his lung coughin like a sick monkey an sayin bhoys i do not mind your gettin dhrunk but you must hould your liquor like men. the man that shoot me be dhrunk. i ll suspend investigation for six hour while i get this bullet cut out and then. 
an then continue horse egan for the peppery major s peculiarity of speech and manner be a well know a his tan face. an then ye dissolute half bake putty face scum o connemara if i find a man so much a lookin confuse begad i ll coort martial the whole company. a man that can t get over his liquor in six hour be not fit to belong to the maverick. 
a shout of laughter bore witness to the truth of the sketch. 
it s pretty to think of say the kerry man slowly. mulcahy would have u do all the devilmint and get clear himself someways. he wudn t be takin all this fool s throuble in shpoilin the reputation of the regimint. 
reputation of your grandmother s pig. say dan. 
well an he have a good reputation tu. so it s all right. mulcahy must see his way to clear out behind him or he d not ha come so far talkin power of darkness. 
do you hear anything of a regimental coortmartial among the black boneens these day. half a company of em take one of the new draft an hang him by his arm with a tent rope from a third story verandah. they give no reason for so doin but he be half dead. i m think that the boneens be short sight. it be a friend of mulcahy s or a man in the same trade. they d a deal good ha take his beer return dan reflectively. 
good still ha hand him up to the colonel say horse egan onless but sure the news wud be all over the counthry an give the reg ment a bad name. 
an there d be no reward for that man he but go about talkin say the kerry man artlessly. 
you speak by your breed say dan with a laugh. there be never a kerry man yet that wudn t sell his brother for a pipe o tobacco an a pat on the back from a p liceman. 
praise god i m not a bloomin orangeman be the answer. 
no nor never will be say dan. they breed men in ulster. would you like to thry the taste of one. 
the kerry man look and long but forbear. the odds of battle be too great. then you ll not even give mulcahy a a strike for his money say the voice of horse egan who regard what he call trouble of any kind a the pinnacle of felicity. 
dan answer not at all but creep on tip toe with long stride to the mess room the men follow. the room be empty. in a corner case like the king of dahomey s state umbrella stand the regimental colour. dan lift them tenderly and unroll in the light of the candle the record of the maverick tattered wear and hack. the white satin be darken everywhere with big brown stain the gold thread on the crown harp be fray and discolour and the red bull the totem of the maverick be coffee hue. the stiff embroider fold whose price be human life rustle down slowly. the maverick keep their colour long and guard them very sacredly. 
vittoria salamanca toulouse waterloo moodkee ferozshah an sobraon that be fight close next door here against the very beggar he want u to join. inkerman the alma sebastopol. what be those little business compare to the campaign of general mulcahy. the mut ny think o that. the mut ny an some dirty little matter in afghanistan. an for that an these an those dan point to the name of glorious battle that yankee man with the partin in his hair come an say a easy a have a drink. holy moses there s the captain. 
but it be the mess sergeant who come in just a the men clatter out and find the colour uncase. 
from that day date the mutiny of the maverick to the joy of mulcahy and the pride of his mother in new york the good lady who send the money for the beer. never so far a word go be such a mutiny. the conspirator lead by dan grady and horse egan pour in daily. they be sound men men to be trust and they all want blood. but first they must have beer. they curse the queen they mourn over ireland they suggest hideous plunder of the indian country side and then ala some of the young men would go forth and wallow on the grind in spasm of wicked laughter the genius of the irish for conspiracy be remarkable. none the le they would swear no oath but those of their own make which be rare and curious and they be always at pain to impress mulcahy with the risk they run. naturally the flood of beer work demoralisation. but mulcahy confuse the cause of thing and when a very muzzy maverick smite a sergeant on the nose or call his command officer a bald head old lard bladder and even bad name he fancy that rebellion and not liquor be at the bottom of the outbreak. other gentleman who have concern themselves in large conspiracy have make the same error. 
the hot season in which they protest no man could rebel come to an end and mulcahy suggest a visible return for his teaching. a to the actual upshot of the mutiny he care nothing. it would be enough if the english infatuatedly trust to the integrity of their army should be startle with news of an irish regiment revolt from political consideration. his persistent demand would have end at dan s instigation in a regimental belt which in all probability would have kill him and cut off the supply of beer have not he be send on special duty some fifty mile away from the cantonment to cool his heel in a mud fort and dismount obsolete artillery. then the colonel of the maverick read his newspaper diligently and scent frontier trouble from afar post to the army headquarter and plead with the commander in chief for certain privilege to be grant under certain contingency. which contingency come about only a week late when the annual little war on the border develop itself and the colonel return to carry the good news to the maverick. he hold the promise of the chief for active service and the men must get ready. 
on the even of the same day mulcahy an unconsidered corporal yet great in conspiracy return to cantonment and hear sound of strife and howling from afar off. the mutiny have break out and the barrack of the maverick be one white wash pandemonium. a private tear through the barrack square gasp in his ear service. active service. it s a burnin shame. oh joy the maverick have rise on the eve of battle. they would not noble and loyal son of ireland serve the queen long. the news would flash through the country side and over to england and he mulcahy the trust of the third three have bring about the crash. the private stand in the middle of the square and curse colonel regiment officer and doctor particularly the doctor by his god. an orderly of the native cavalry regiment clatter through the mob of soldier. he be half lift half drag from his horse beat on the back with mighty hand clap till his eye water and call all manner of endear name. yes the maverick have fraternize with the native troop. who then be the agent among the latter that have blindly work with mulcahy so well. 
an officer slink almost run from the mess to a barrack. he be mob by the infuriate soldiery who close round but do not kill him for he fight his way to shelter fly for the life. mulcahy could have weep with pure joy and thankfulness. the very prisoner in the guard room be shake the bar of their cell and howl like wild beast and from every barrack pour the boom a of a big war drum. 
mulcahy hasten to his own barrack. he could hardly hear himself speak. eighty men be pound with fist and heel the table and trestle eighty men flush with mutiny strip to their shirt sleeve their knapsack half pack for the march to the sea make the two inch board thunder again a they chant to a tune that mulcahy know well the sacred war song of the maverick. 
listen in the north my boy there s trouble on the wind. tramp o cossack hoof in front gray great coat behind trouble on the frontier of a most amazin kind trouble on the water o the oxus. 
then a the table break under the furious accompaniment hurrah. hurrah. it s north by west we go. hurrah. hurrah. the chance we want so. let em hear the chorus from umballa to moscow a we go marchin to the kremling. 
mother of all the saint in bliss and all the devil in cinder where s my fine new sock widout the heel. howl horse egan ransack everybody s valise but his own. he be engage in make up deficiency of kit preparatory to a campaign and in that work he steal best who steal last. ah mulcahy you re in good time he shout we ve get the route and we re off on thursday for a pic nic wid the lancer next door. 
an ambulance orderly appear with a huge basket full of lint roll provide by the forethought of the queen for such a might need them late on. horse egan unroll his bandage and flick it under mulcahy s nose chant. 
sheepskin an bee wax thunder pitch and plaster the more you try to pull it off the more it stick the fast. a i be goin to new orleans. 
you know the rest of it my irish american jew boy. by gad ye have to fight for the queen in the inside av a fortnight my darlin. 
a roar of laughter interrupt. mulcahy look vacantly down the room. bid a boy defy his father when the pantomime cab be at the door or a girl develop a will of her own when her mother be put the last touch to the first ball dress but do not ask an irish regiment to embark upon mutiny on the eve of a campaign when it ha fraternise with the native regiment that accompany it and drive it officer into retirement with ten thousand clamorous question and the prisoner dance for joy and the sick men stand in the open call down all know disease on the head of the doctor who ha certify that they be medically unfit for active service. at even the maverick might have be mistake for mutineer by one so unversed in their nature a mulcahy. at dawn a girl school might have learn deportment from them. they know that their colonel s hand have close and that he who break that iron discipline would not go to the front. nothing in the world will persuade one of our soldier when he be order to the north on the small of affair that he be not immediately go gloriously to slay cossack and cook his kettle in the palace of the czar. a few of the young men mourn for mulcahy s beer because the campaign be to be conduct on strict temperance principle but a dan and horse egan say sternly we ve get the beer man with u. he shall drink now on his own hook. 
mulcahy have not take into account the possibility of be send on active service. he have make up his mind that he would not go under any circumstance but fortune be against him. 
sick you. say the doctor who have serve an unholy apprenticeship to his trade in tralee poorhouse. you re only home sick and what you call varicose vein come from over eat. a little gentle exercise will cure that. and late mulcahy my man everybody be allow to apply for a sick certificate once. if he try it twice we call him by an ugly name. go back to your duty and let s hear no more of your disease. 
i be ashamed to say that horse egan enjoy the study of mulcahy s soul in those day and dan take an equal interest. together they would communicate to their corporal all the dark lore of death which be the portion of those who have see men die. egan have the large experience but dan the fine imagination. mulcahy shiver when the former speak of the knife a an intimate acquaintance or the latter dwell with love particularity on the fate of those who wound and helpless have be overlook by the ambulance and have fall into the hand of the afghan woman folk. 
mulcahy know that the mutiny for the present at least be dead. know too that a change have come over dan s usually respectful attitude towards him and horse egan s laughter and frequent allusion to abortive conspiracy emphasise all that the conspirator have guess. the horrible fascination of the death story however make him seek the men s society. he learn much more than he have bargain for. and in this manner. it be on the last night before the regiment entrain to the front. the barrack be strip of everything movable and the men be too excite to sleep. the bare wall give out a heavy hospital smell of chloride of lime. 
and what say mulcahy in an awe stricken whisper after some conversation on the eternal subject be you go to do to me dan. this might have be the language of an able conspirator conciliate a weak spirit. 
you ll see say dan grimly turn over in his cot or i rather shud say you ll not see. 
this be hardly the language of a weak spirit. mulcahy shake under the bed clothe. 
bc easy with him put in egan from the next cot. he ha get his chanst o goin clean. listen mulcahy all we want be for the good sake of the regiment that you take your death stand up a a man shud. there s be heap an heap of enemy plenshus heap. go there an do all you can and die decent. you ll die with a good name there. ti not a hard thing considerin. again mulcahy shiver. 
an how could a man wish to die good than fightin. add dan consolingly. 
and if i win t. say the corporal in a dry whisper. 
there ll be a dale of smoke return dan sit up and tick off the situation on his finger sure to be an the noise of the firin ll be tremenjus an we ll be run about up and down the regiment will. but we horse and i we ll stay by you mulcahy and never let you go. maybe there ll be an accident. 
it s play it low on me. let me go. for pity s sake let me go. i never do you harm and and i stand you a much beer a i could. oh don t be hard on me dan. you be you be in it too. you win t kill me up there will you. 
i m not thinkin of the treason. though you shud be glad any honest boy drink with you. it s for the regiment. we can t have the shame o you bringin shame on u. you go to the doctor quiet a a sick cat to get and stay behind an live with the woman at the depot you that want u to run to the sea in wolf pack like the rebel none of your black blood dare to be. but we know about your goin to the doctor for he tell in mess and it s all over the regiment. bein a we be your best friend we didn t allow any one to molest you yet. we will see to you ourselves. fight which you will u or the enemy you ll never lie in that cot again and there s more glory and maybe le kick from fightin the enemy. that s fair speakin. and he tell u by word of mouth to go and join with the nigger you ve forget that dan say horse egan to justify sentence. 
what s the use of plaguin the man. one shoot pay for all. sleep ye sound mulcahy. but you onderstand do ye not. 
mulcahy for some week understand very little of anything at all save that ever at his elbow in camp or at parade stand two big men with soft voice adjure him to commit hari kari l a bad thing should happen to die for the honour of the regiment in decency among the near knife. but mulcahy dread death. he remember certain thing that priest have say in his infancy and his mother not the one at new york start from her sleep with shriek to pray for a husband s soul in torment. it be well to be of a culture intelligence but in time of trouble the weak human mind return to the creed it suck in at the breast and if that creed be not a pretty one trouble follow. also the death he would have to face would be physically painful. most conspirator have large imagination. mulcahy could see himself a he lay on the earth in the night die by various cause. they be all horrible. the mother in new york be very far away and the regiment the engine that once you fall in it grip move you forward whether you will or win t be daily come close to the enemy. 
they be bring to the field of marzunkatai and with the black boneens to aid they fight a fight that ha never be set down in the newspaper. in response many believe to the fervent prayer of father dennis the enemy not only elect to fight in the open but make a beautiful fight a many weep irish mother know late. they gather behind wall or flicker across the open in shout mass and be pot valiant in artillery. it be expedient to hold a large reserve and wait for the psychological moment that be be prepare by the shriek shrapnel. therefore the maverick lay down in open order on the brow of a hill to watch the play till their call should come. father dennis whose duty be in the rear to smooth the trouble of the wound have naturally manage to make his way to the foremost of his boy and lay like a black porpoise at length on the grass. to him crawl mulcahy ashen gray demand absolution. 
wait till you re shoot say father dennis sweetly. there s a time for everything. 
dan grady chuckle a he blow for the fiftieth time into the breech of his speckle rifle. mulcahy groan and bury his head in his arm till a stray shoot speak like a snipe immediately above his head and a general heave and tremour ripple the line. other shot follow and a few take effect a a shriek or a grunt attest. the officer who have be lie down with the men rise and begin to walk steadily up and down the front of their company. 
this manoeuvre execute not for publication but a a guarantee of good faith to soothe men demand nerve. you must not hurry you must not look nervous though you know that you be a mark for every rifle within extreme range and above all if you be smite you must make a little noise a possible and roll inwards through the file. it be at this hour when the breeze bring the first salt whiff of the powder to nose rather cold at the tip and the eye can quietly take in the appearance of each red casualty that the strain on the nerve be strong. scotch regiment can endure for half a day and abate no whit of their zeal at the end. english regiment sometimes sulk under punishment while the irish like the french be apt to run forward by one and two which be just a bad a run back. the truly wise commandant of highly string troop allow them in season of wait to hear the sound of their own voice uplift in song. there be a legend of an english regiment that lay by it arm under fire chaunting sam hall to the horror of it newly appoint and pious colonel. the black boneens who be suffer more than the maverick on a hill half a mile away begin presently to explain to all who care to listen. 
we ll sound the jubilee from the centre to the sea and ireland shall be free say the shan van vogh. 
sing boy say father dennis softly. it look a if we care for their afghan pea. 
dan grady raise himself to his knee and open his mouth in a song impart to him a to most of his comrade in the strict confidence by mulcahy that mulcahy then lie limp and faint on the grass the chill fear of death upon him. 
company after company catch up the word which the i. a. a. say be to herald the general rise of erin and to breathe which except to those duly appoint to hear be death. wherefore they be print in this place. 
the saxon in heaven s just balance be weigh his doom like belshazzar s in death ha be cast and the hand of the venger shall never be stay till his race faith and speech be a dream of the past. 
they be heart fill line and they run with a swirl. the i. a. a. be good serve by their pen than their petard. dan clap mulcahy merrily on the back ask him to sing up. the officer lay down again. there be no need to walk any more. their men be soothe themselves thunderously thus. 
st. mary in heaven ha write the vow that the land shall not rest till the heretic blood from the babe at the breast to the hand at the plough ha roll to the ocean like shannon in flood. 
i ll speak to you after all s over say father dennis authoritatively in dan s ear. what s the use of confess to me when you do this foolishness. dan you ve be play with fire. i ll lay you more penance in a week than. 
come along to purgatory with u father dear. the boneens be on the move. they ll let u go now. 
the regiment rise to the blast of the bugle a one man. but one man there be who rise more swiftly than all the others for half an inch of bayonet be in the fleshy part of his leg. 
you ve get to do it say dan grimly. do it decent anyhow. and the roar of the rush drown his word for the rear company thrust forward the first still sing a they swing down the slope. 
from the child at the breast to the hand at the plough shall roll to the ocean like shannon in flood. 
they should have sing it in the face of england not of the afghan whom it impress a much a do the wild irish yell. 
they come down sing say the unofficial report of the enemy bear from village to village the next day. they continue to sing and it be write that our men could not abide when they come. it be believe that there be magic in the aforesaid song. 
dan and horse egan keep themselves in the neighbourhood of mulcahy. twice the man would have bolt back in the confusion. twice he be heave kick and shoulder back again into the unpaintable inferno of a hotly contest charge. 
at the end the panic excess of his fear drive him into madness beyond all human courage. his eye star at nothing his mouth open and froth and breathe a one in a cold bath he go forward demented while dan toil after him. the charge check at a high mud wall. it be mulcahy who scramble up tooth and nail and hurl down among the bayonet the amaze afghan who bar his way. it be mulcahy keep to the straight line of the rabid dog who lead a collection of ardent soul at a newly unmask battery and fling himself on the muzzle of a gun a his companion dance among the gunner. it be mulcahy who run wildly on from that battery into the open plain where the enemy be retire in sullen group. his hand be empty he have lose helmet and belt and he be bleed from a wind in the neck. dan and horse egan pant and distress have throw themselves down on the grind by the capture gun when they notice mulcahy s charge. 
mad say horse egan critically. mad with fear. he s go straight to his death an shout s no use. 
let him go. watch now. if we fire we ll hit him maybe. 
the last of a hurry crowd of afghan turn at the noise of shoe foot behind him and shift his knife ready to hand. this he saw be no time to take prisoner. mulcahy tear on sob. the straight hold blade go home through the defenceless breast and the body pitch forward almost before a shoot from dan s rifle bring down the slayer and still further hurry the afghan retreat. the two irishman go out to bring in their dead. 
he be give the point and that be an easy death say horse egan view the corpse. but would you ha shoot him danny if he have live. 
he didn t live so there s no sayin. but i doubt i wud have bekaze of the fun he give u let alone the beer. hike up his leg horse and we ll bring him in. perhaps ti good this way. 
they bore the poor limp body to the mass of the regiment loll open mouth on their rifle. and there be a general snigger when one of the young subaltern say that be a good man. 
phew say horse egan when a burial party have take over the burden. i m powerful dhry and this remind me there ll be no more beer at all. 
fwhy not. say dan with a twinkle in his eye a he stretch himself for rest. be we not conspirin all we can an while we conspire be we not entitle to free dhrinks. sure his ould mother in new york would not let her son s comrade perish of drouth if she can be reach at the end of a letter. 
you re a janius say horse egan. coorse she will not. i wish this crool war be over an we d get back to canteen. faith the commander in chief ought to be hang in his own little sword belt for makin u work on wather. 
the maverick be generally of horse egan s opinion. so they make haste to get their work do a soon a possible and their industry be reward by unexpected peace. we can fight the son of adam say the tribesman but we cannot fight the son of eblis and this regiment never stay still in one place. let u therefore come in. they come in and this regiment withdraw to conspire under the leadership of dan grady. 
excellent a a subordinate dan fail altogether a a chief in command possibly because he be too much sway by the advice of the only man in the regiment who could manufacture more than one kind of handwrite. the same mail that bore to mulcahy s mother in new york a letter from the colonel tell her how valiantly her son have fight for the queen and how assuredly he would have be recommend for the victoria cross have he survive carry a communication sign i grieve to say by that same colonel and all the officer of the regiment explain their willingness to do anything which be contrary to the regulation and all kind of revolution if only a little money could be forward to cover incidental expense. daniel grady esquire would receive fund vice mulcahy who be unwell at this present time of write. 
both letter be forward from new york to tehama street san francisco with marginal comment a brief a they be bitter. the third three read and look at each other. then the second conspirator he who believe in join hand with the practical branch begin to laugh and on recover his gravity say gentleman i consider this will be a lesson to u. we re leave again. those curse irish have let u down. i know they would but here he laugh afresh i d give considerable to know what be at the back of it all. 
his curiosity would have be satisfy have he see dan grady discredit regimental conspirator try to explain to his thirsty comrade in india the non arrival of fund from new york. 
the man who be. 
the earth give up her dead that tide into our camp he come and say his say and go his way and leave our heart aflame. 
keep tally on the gun butt score the vengeance we must take when god shall bring full reckon for our dead comrade s sake. 
ballad. 
let it be clearly understand that the russian be a delightful person till he tuck in his shirt. a an oriental he be charm. it be only when he insist upon be treat a the most easterly of western people instead of the most westerly of easterns that he become a racial anomaly extremely difficult to handle. the host never know which side of his nature be go to turn up next. 
dirkovitch be a russian a russian of the russian who appear to get his bread by serve the czar a an officer in a cossack regiment and correspond for a russian newspaper with a name that be never twice alike. he be a handsome young oriental fond of wander through unexplored portion of the earth and he arrive in india from nowhere in particular. at least no live man could ascertain whether it be by way of balkh badakshan chitral beluchistan or nepaul or anywhere else. the indian government be in an unusually affable mood give order that he be to be civilly treat and show everything that be to be see. so he drift talk bad english and bad french from one city to another till he foregather with her majesty s white hussar in the city of peshawur which stand at the mouth of that narrow swordcut in the hill that men call the khyber pas. he be undoubtedly an officer and he be decorate after the manner of the russian with little enamel cross and he could talk and. though this ha nothing to do with his merit. he have be give up a a hopeless task or cask by the black tyrone who individually and collectively with hot whiskey and honey mull brandy and mix spirit of every kind have strive in all hospitality to make him drink. and when the black tyrone who be exclusively irish fail to disturb the peace of head of a foreigner that foreigner be certain to be a superior man. 
the white hussar be a conscientious in choose their wine a in charge the enemy. all that they possess include some wondrous brandy be place at the absolute disposition of dirkovitch and he enjoy himself hugely even more than among the black tyrones. 
but he remain distressingly european through it all. the white hussar be my dear true friend fellow soldier glorious and brother inseparable. he would unburden himself by the hour on the glorious future that await the combine arm of england and russia when their heart and their territory should run side by side and the great mission of civilise asia should begin. that be unsatisfactory because asia be not go to be civilise after the method of the west. there be too much asia and she be too old. you cannot reform a lady of many lover and asia ha be insatiable in her flirtation aforetime. she will never attend sunday school or learn to vote save with sword for ticket. 
dirkovitch know this a well a any one else but it suit him to talk special correspondently and to make himself a genial a he could. now and then he volunteer a little a very little information about his own sotnia of cossack leave apparently to look after themselves somewhere at the back of beyond. he have do rough work in central asia and have see rather more help yourself fight than most men of his year. but he be careful never to betray his superiority and more than careful to praise on all occasion the appearance drill uniform and organisation of her majesty s white hussar. and indeed they be a regiment to be admire. when lady durgan widow of the late sir john durgan arrive in their station and after a short time have be propose to by every single man at mess she put the public sentiment very neatly when she explain that they be all so nice that unless she could marry them all include the colonel and some major already marry she be not go to content herself with one hussar. wherefore she wed a little man in a rifle regiment be by nature contradictious. and the white hussar be go to wear crape on their arm but compromise by attend the wed in full force and line the aisle with unutterable reproach. she have jilt them all from basset holmer the senior captain to little mildred the junior subaltern who could have give her four thousand a year and a title. 
the only person who do not share the general regard for the white hussar be a few thousand gentleman of jewish extraction who live across the border and answer to the name of pathan. they have once meet the regiment officially and for something le than twenty minute but the interview which be complicate with many casualty have fill them with prejudice. they even call the white hussar child of the devil and son of person whom it would be perfectly impossible to meet in decent society. yet they be not above make their aversion fill their money belt. the regiment possess carbine beautiful martini henry carbine that would lob a bullet into an enemy s camp at one thousand yard and be even handy than the long rifle. therefore they be covet all along the border and since demand inevitably breed supply they be supply at the risk of life and limb for exactly their weight in coin silver seven and one half pound weight of rupee or sixteen pound sterling reckon the rupee at par. they be steal at night by snaky haired thief who crawl on their stomach under the nose of the sentry. they disappear mysteriously from lock arm rack and in the hot weather when all the barrack door and window be open they vanish like puff of their own smoke. the border people desire them for family vendetta and contingency. but in the long cold night of the northern indian winter they be steal most extensively. the traffic of murder be lively among the hill at that season and price rule high. the regimental guard be first double and then treble. a trooper doe not much care if he lose a weapon government must make it good but he deeply resent the loss of his sleep. the regiment grow very angry and one rifle thief bear the visible mark of their anger upon him to this hour. that incident stop the burglary for a time and the guard be reduce accordingly and the regiment devote itself to polo with unexpected result. for it beat by two goal to one that very terrible polo corp the lushkar light horse though the latter have four pony apiece for a short hour s fight a well a a native officer who play like a lambent flame across the grind. 
they give a dinner to celebrate the event. the lushkar team come and dirkovitch come in the full full uniform of a cossack officer which be a full a a dress gown and be introduce to the lushkars and open his eye a he regard. they be light men than the hussar and they carry themselves with the swing that be the peculiar right of the punjab frontier force and all irregular horse. like everything else in the service it ha to be learn but unlike many thing it be never forget and remain on the body till death. 
the great beam roof mess room of the white hussar be a sight to be remember. all the mess plate be out on the long table the same table that have serve up the body of five officer after a forget fight long and long ago the dingy batter standard face the door of entrance clump of winter rose lay between the silver candlestick and the portrait of eminent officer decease look down on their successor from between the head of sambhur nilghai markhor and pride of all the mess two grin snow leopard that have cost basset holmer four month leave that he might have spend in england instead of on the road to thibet and the daily risk of his life by ledge snow slide and grassy slope. 
the servant in spotless white muslin and the crest of their regiment on the brow of their turban wait behind their master who be clothe in the scarlet and gold of the white hussar and the cream and silver of the lushkar light horse. dirkovitch s dull green uniform be the only dark spot at the board but his big onyx eye make up for it. he be fraternise effusively with the captain of the lushkar team who be wonder how many of dirkovitch s cossack his own dark wiry down countryman could account for in a fair charge. but one doe not speak of these thing openly. 
the talk rise high and high and the regimental band play between the course a be the immemorial custom till all tongue cease for a moment with the removal of the dinner slip and the first toast of obligation when an officer rise say mr. vice the queen and little mildred from the bottom of the table answer the queen god bless her and the big spur clank a the big men heave themselves up and drink the queen upon whose pay they be falsely suppose to settle their mess bill. that sacrament of the mess never grow old and never cease to bring a lump into the throat of the listener wherever he be by sea or by land. dirkovitch rise with his brother glorious but he could not understand. no one but an officer can tell what the toast mean. and the bulk have more sentiment than comprehension. immediately after the little silence that follow on the ceremony there enter the native officer who have play for the lushkar team. he could not of course eat with the mess but he come in at dessert all six foot of him with the blue and silver turban atop and the big black boot below. the mess rise joyously a he thrust forward the hilt of his sabre in token of fealty for the colonel of the white hussar to touch and drop into a vacant chair amid shout of. ring ho hira singh. which be translate mean go in and win. do i whack you over the knee old man. ressaidar sahib what the devil make you play that kick pig of a pony in the last ten minute. shabash ressaidar sahib. then the voice of the colonel the health of ressaidar hira singh. 
after the shout have die away hira singh rise to reply for he be the cadet of a royal house the son of a king s son and know what be due on these occasion. thus he speak in the vernacular. colonel sahib and officer of this regiment. much honour have you do me. this will i remember. we come down from afar to play you. but we be beat. no fault of yours ressaidar sahib. play on our own grind y know. your pony be cramp from the railway. don t apologise. therefore perhaps we will come again if it be so ordain. hear. hear. hear indeed. bravo. hsh. then we will play you afresh. happy to meet you. till there be leave no foot upon our pony. thus far for sport. he drop one hand on his sword hilt and his eye wander to dirkovitch loll back in his chair. but if by the will of god there arise any other game which be not the polo game then be assure colonel sahib and officer that we will play it out side by side though they again his eye seek dirkovitch though they i say have fifty pony to our one horse. and with a deep mouth ring ho. that sound like a musket butt on flagstone he sit down amid leap glass. 
dirkovitch who have devote himself steadily to the brandy the terrible brandy aforementioned do not understand nor do the expurgate translation offer to him at all convey the point. decidedly hira singh s be the speech of the even and the clamour might have continue to the dawn have it not be break by the noise of a shoot without that send every man feel at his defenseless leave side. then there be a scuffle and a yell of pain. 
carbine steal again. say the adjutant calmly sink back in his chair. this come of reduce the guard. i hope the sentry have kill him. 
the foot of arm men pound on the verandah flag and it be a though something be be drag. 
why don t they put him in the cell till the morning. say the colonel testily. see if they ve damage him sergeant. 
the mess sergeant flee out into the darkness and return with two trooper and a corporal all very much perplex. 
catch a man stealin carbine sir say the corporal. leastways e be crawlin towards the barricks sir past the main road sentry an the sentry e sez sir. 
the limp heap of rag uphold by the three men groan. never be see so destitute and demoralise an afghan. he be turbanless shoeless cake with dirt and all but dead with rough handle. hira singh start slightly at the sound of the man s pain. dirkovitch take another glass of brandy. 
what doe the sentry say. say the colonel. 
sez e speak english sir say the corporal. 
so you bring him into mess instead of hand him over to the sergeant. if he speak all the tongue of the pentecost you ve no business. 
again the bundle groan and mutter. little mildred have rise from his place to inspect. he jump back a though he have be shoot. 
perhaps it would be good sir to send the men away say he to the colonel for he be a much privilege subaltern. he put his arm round the rag bind horror a he speak and drop him into a chair. it may not have be explain that the littleness of mildred lay in his be six foot four and big in proportion. the corporal see that an officer be dispose to look after the capture and that the colonel s eye be begin to blaze promptly remove himself and his men. the mess be leave alone with the carbine thief who lay his head on the table and weep bitterly hopelessly and inconsolably a little child weep. 
hira singh leap to his foot. colonel sahib say he that man be no afghan for they weep ai. ai. nor be he of hindustan for they weep oh. ho. he weep after the fashion of the white men who say ow. ow. 
now where the dickens do you get that knowledge hira singh. say the captain of the lushkar team. 
hear him. say hira singh simply point at the crumple figure that weep a though it would never cease. 
he say my god. say little mildred. i hear him say it. 
the colonel and the mess room look at the man in silence. it be a horrible thing to hear a man cry. a woman can sob from the top of her palate or her lip or anywhere else but a man must cry from his diaphragm and it rend him to piece. 
poor devil. say the colonel cough tremendously. we ought to send him to hospital. he s be man handle. 
now the adjutant love his carbine. they be to him a his grandchild the men stand in the first place. he grunt rebelliously. i can understand an afghan steal because he s build that way. but i can t understand his cry. that make it bad. 
the brandy must have affect dirkovitch for he lay back in his chair and star at the ceiling. there be nothing special in the ceiling beyond a shadow a of a huge black coffin. owe to some peculiarity in the construction of the mess room this shadow be always throw when the candle be light. it never disturb the digestion of the white hussar. they be in fact rather proud of it. 
be he go to cry all night. say the colonel or be we suppose to sit up with little mildred s guest until he feel good. 
the man in the chair throw up his head and star at the mess. oh my god. he say and every soul in the mess rise to his foot. then the lushkar captain do a deed for which he ought to have be give the victoria cross distinguish gallantry in a fight against overwhelm curiosity. he pick up his team with his eye a the host pick up the lady at the opportune moment and pause only by the colonel s chair to say this isn t our affair you know sir lead them into the verandah and the garden. hira singh be the last to go and he look at dirkovitch. but dirkovitch have depart into a brandy paradise of his own. his lip move without sound and he be study the coffin on the ceiling. 
white white all over say basset holmer the adjutant. what a pernicious renegade he must be. i wonder where he come from. 
the colonel shake the man gently by the arm and who be you. say he. 
there be no answer. the man star round the mess room and smile in the colonel s face. little mildred who be always more of a woman than a man till boot and saddle be sound repeat the question in a voice that would have draw confidence from a geyser. the man only smile. dirkovitch at the far end of the table slide gently from his chair to the floor. no son of adam in this present imperfect world can mix the hussar champagne with the hussar brandy by five and eight glass of each without remember the pit whence he be digged and descend thither. the band begin to play the tune with which the white hussar from the date of their formation have conclude all their function. they would sooner be disband than abandon that tune. it be a part of their system. the man straighten himself in his chair and drum on the table with his finger. 
i don t see why we should entertain lunatic say the colonel. call a guard and send him off to the cell. we ll look into the business in the morning. give him a glass of wine first though. 
little mildred fill a sherry glass with the brandy and thrust it over to the man. he drink and the tune rise loud and he straighten himself yet more. then he put out his long taloned hand to a piece of plate opposite and finger it lovingly. there be a mystery connect with that piece of plate in the shape of a spring which convert what be a seven branch candlestick three spring on each side and one in the middle into a sort of wheel speak candelabrum. he find the spring press it and laugh weakly. he rise from his chair and inspect a picture on the wall then move on to another picture the mess watch him without a word. when he come to the mantelpiece he shake his head and seem distress. a piece of plate represent a mount hussar in full uniform catch his eye. he point to it and then to the mantelpiece with inquiry in his eye. 
what be it oh what be it. say little mildred. then a a mother might speak to a child that be a horse. yes a horse. 
very slowly come the answer in a thick passionless guttural yes i have see. but where be the horse. 
you could have hear the heart of the mess beat a the men draw back to give the strange full room in his wandering. there be no question of call the guard. 
again he speak very slowly where be our horse. 
there be but one horse in the white hussar and his portrait hang outside the door of the mess room. he be the piebald drum horse the king of the regimental band that serve the regiment for seven and thirty year and in the end be shoot for old age. half the mess tear the thing down from it place and thrust it into the man s hand. he place it above the mantelpiece it clatter on the ledge a his poor hand drop it and he stagger towards the bottom of the table fall into mildred s chair. then all the men speak to one another something after this fashion the drum horse hasn t hang over the mantelpiece since. how doe he know. mildred go and speak to him again. colonel what be you go to do. oh dry up and give the poor devil a chance to pull himself together. it isn t possible anyhow. the man s a lunatic. 
little mildred stand at the colonel s side talk in his ear. will you be good enough to take your seat please gentleman. he say and the mess drop into the chair. only dirkovitch s seat next to little mildred s be blank and little mildred himself have find hira singh s place. the wide eye mess sergeant fill the glass in dead silence. once more the colonel rise but his hand shake and the port spill on the table a he look straight at the man in little mildred s chair and say hoarsely mr. vice the queen. there be a little pause but the man spring to his foot and answer without hesitation the queen god bless her. and a he empty the thin glass he snap the shank between his finger. 
long and long ago when the empress of india be a young woman and there be no unclean ideal in the land it be the custom of a few mess to drink the queen s toast in break glass to the vast delight of the mess contractor. the custom be now dead because there be nothing to break anything for except now and again the word of a government and that ha be break already. 
that settle it say the colonel with a gasp. he s not a sergeant. what in the world be he. 
the entire mess echo the word and the volley of question would have scar any man. it be no wonder that the rag filthy invader could only smile and shake his head. 
from under the table calm and smile rise dirkovitch who have be rouse from healthful slumber by foot upon his body. by the side of the man he rise and the man shriek and grovel. it be a horrible sight come so swiftly upon the pride and glory of the toast that have bring the stray wit together. 
dirkovitch make no offer to raise him but little mildred heave him up in an instant. it be not good that a gentleman who can answer to the queen s toast should lie at the foot of a subaltern of cossack. 
the hasty action tear the wretch s upper clothe nearly to the waist and his body be seam with dry black scar. there be only one weapon in the world that cut in parallel line and it be neither the cane nor the cat. dirkovitch saw the mark and the pupil of his eye dilate. also his face change. he say something that sound like shto ve takete and the man fawn answer chetyre. 
what s that. say everybody together. 
his number. that be number four you know. dirkovitch speak very thickly. 
what ha a queen s officer to do with a qualify number. say the colonel and an unpleasant growl run round the table. 
how can i tell. say the affable oriental with a sweet smile. he be a how you have it. escape run a way from over there. he nod towards the darkness of the night. 
speak to him if he ll answer you and speak to him gently say little mildred settle the man in a chair. it seem most improper to all present that dirkovitch should sip brandy a he talk in purr spit russian to the creature who answer so feebly and with such evident dread. but since dirkovitch appear to understand no one say a word. all breathe heavily lean forward in the long gap of the conversation. the next time that they have no engagement on hand the white hussar intend to go to st. petersburg in a body to learn russian. 
he doe not know how many year ago say dirkovitch face the mess but he say it be very long ago in a war. i think that there be an accident. he say he be of this glorious and distinguish regiment in the war. 
the roll. the roll. holmer get the roll. say little mildred and the adjutant dash off bare head to the orderly room where the muster roll of the regiment be keep. he return just in time to hear dirkovitch conclude therefore my dear friend i be most sorry to say there be an accident which would have be reparable if he have apologise to that our colonel which he have insult. 
then follow another growl which the colonel try to beat down. the mess be in no mood just then to weigh insult to russian colonel. 
he doe not remember but i think that there be an accident and so he be not exchange among the prisoner but he be send to another place how do you say. the country. so he say he come here. he doe not know how he come. eh. he be at chepany the man catch the word nod and shiver at zhigansk and irkutsk. i cannot understand how he escape. he say too that he be in the forest for many year but how many year he ha forget that with many thing. it be an accident. do because he do not apologise to that our colonel. ah. 
instead of echo dirkovitch s sigh of regret it be sad to record that the white hussar livelily exhibit un christian delight and other emotion hardly restrain by their sense of hospitality. holmer fling the fray and yellow regimental roll on the table and the men fling themselves at these. 
steady. fifty six fifty five fifty four say holmer. here we be. lieutenant austin limmason. miss. that be before sebastopol. what an infernal shame. insult one of their colonel and be quietly ship off. thirty year of his life wipe out. 
but he never apologise. say he d see him damn first chorus the mess. 
poor chap. i suppose he never have the chance afterwards. how do he come here. say the colonel. 
the dingy heap in the chair could give no answer. 
do you know who you be. 
it laugh weakly. 
do you know that you be limmason lieutenant limmason of the white hussar. 
swiftly a a shoot come the answer in a slightly surprise tone yes i m limmason of course. the light die out in his eye and the man collapse watch every motion of dirkovitch with terror. a flight from siberia may fix a few elementary fact in the mind but it doe not seem to lead to continuity of think. the man could not explain how like a home pigeon he have find his way to his own old mess again. of what he have suffer or see he know nothing. he cringe before dirkovitch a instinctively a he have press the spring of the candlestick seek the picture of the drum horse and answer to the toast of the queen. the rest be a blank that the dread russian tongue could only in part remove. his head bow on his breast and he giggle and cower alternately. 
the devil that live in the brandy prompt dirkovitch at this extremely inopportune moment to make a speech. he rise sway slightly grip the table edge while his eye glow like opal and begin. 
fellow soldier glorious true friend and hospitables. it be an accident and deplorable most deplorable. here he smile sweetly all round the mess. but you will think of this little little thing. so little be it not. the czar. posh. i slap my finger i snap my finger at him. do i believe in him. no. but in u slav who ha do nothing him i believe. seventy how much million people that have do nothing not one thing. posh. napoleon be an episode. he bang a hand on the table. hear you old people we have do nothing in the world out here. all our work be to do. and it shall be do old people. get a way. he wave his hand imperiously and point to the man. you see him. he be not good to see. he be just one little oh so little accident that no one remember. now he be. 
that. so will you be brother soldier so brave so will you be. but you will never come back. you will all go where he be go or he point to the great coffin shadow on the ceiling and mutter seventy million get a way you old people fell asleep. 
sweet and to the point say little mildred. what s the use of get wroth. let s make this poor devil comfortable. 
but that be a matter suddenly and swiftly take from the love hand of the white hussar. the lieutenant have return only to go away again three day late when the wail of the dead march and the tramp of the squadron tell the wonder station who saw no gap in the mess table that an officer of the regiment have resign his new find commission. 
and dirkovitch bland supple and always genial go away too by a night train. little mildred and another man saw him off for he be the guest of the mess and even have he smite the colonel with the open hand the law of that mess allow no relaxation of hospitality. 
good bye dirkovitch and a pleasant journey say little mildred. 
au revoir say the russian. 
indeed. but we think you be go home. 
yes but i will come again. my dear friend be that road shut. he point to where the north star burn over the khyber pas. 
by jove. i forget. of course. happy to meet you old man any time you like. get everything you want. cheroot ice bed. that s all right. well au revoir dirkovitch. 
um say the other man a the tail light of the train grow small. of all the unmitigated. 
little mildred answer nothing but watch the north star and hum a selection from recent simla burlesque that have much delight the white hussar. it run. 
i m sorry for mister bluebeard i m sorry to cause him pain. but a terrible spree there s sure to be when he come back again. 
only a subaltern. 
not only to enforce by command but to encourage by example the energetic discharge of duty and the steady endurance of the difficulty and privation inseparable from military service. bengal army regulation. 
they make bobby wick pas an examination at sandhurst. he be a gentleman before he be gazette so when the empress announce that gentleman cadet robert hanna wick be post a second lieutenant to the tyneside tail twister at krab bokhar he become an officer and a gentleman which be an enviable thing. and there be joy in the house of wick where mamma wick and all the little wick fell upon their knee and offer incense to bobby by virtue of his achievement. 
papa wick have be a commissioner in his day hold authority over three million of men in the chota buldana division build great work for the good of the land and do his best to make two blade of grass grow where there be but one before. of course nobody know anything about this in the little english village where he be just old mr. wick and have forget that he be a companion of the order of the star of india. 
he pat bobby on the shoulder and say. well do my boy. 
there follow while the uniform be be prepare an interval of pure delight during which bobby take brevet rank a a man at the woman swamp tennis party and tea fight of the village and i daresay have his join time be extend would have fall in love with several girl at once. little country village at home be very full of nice girl because all the young men come out to india to make their fortune. 
india say papa wick be the place. i ve have thirty year of it and begad i d like to go back again. when you join the tail twister you ll be among friend if every one hasn t forget wick of chota buldana and a lot of people will be kind to you for our sake. the mother will tell you more about outfit than i can but remember this. stick to your regiment bobby stick to your regiment. you ll see men all round you go into the staff corp and do every possible sort of duty but regimental and you may be tempt to follow suit. now so long a you keep within your allowance and i haven t stint you there stick to the line the whole line and nothing but the line. be careful how you back another young fool s bill and if you fall in love with a woman twenty year old than yourself don t tell me about it that s all. 
with these counsel and many others equally valuable do papa wick fortify bobby ere that last awful night at portsmouth when the officer quarter hold more inmate than be provide for by the regulation and the liberty men of the ship fell foul of the draft for india and the battle rag from the dockyard gate even to the slum of longport while the drab of fratton come down and scratch the face of the queen s officer. 
bobby wick with an ugly bruise on his freckle nose a sick and shaky detachment to manoeuvre inship and the comfort of fifty scornful female to attend to have no time to feel homesick till the malabar reach mid channel when he double his emotion with a little guard visit and a great many other matter. 
the tail twister be a most particular regiment. those who know them least say that they be eat up with side. but their reserve and their internal arrangement generally be merely protective diplomacy. some five year before the colonel command have look into the fourteen fearless eye of seven plump and juicy subaltern who have all apply to enter the staff corp and have ask them why the three star should he a colonel of the line command a dash nursery for double dash bottle sucker who put on condemn tin spur and ride qualify moke at the hiatused head of forsake black regiment. he be a rude man and a terrible. wherefore the remnant take measure. with the half butt a an engine of public opinion. till the rumour go abroad that young men who use the tail twister a a crutch to the staff corp have many and vary trial to endure. however a regiment ha just a much right to it own secret a a woman. 
when bobby come up from deolali and take his place among the tail twister it be gently but firmly bear in upon him that the regiment be his father and his mother and his indissolubly wed wife and that there be no crime under the canopy of heaven black than that of bring shame on the regiment which be the best shoot best drill best set up brave most illustrious and in all respect most desirable regiment within the compass of the seven sea. he be teach the legend of the mess plate from the great grin golden god that have come out of the summer palace in pekin to the silver mount markhor horn snuffmull present by the last c. he who spake to the seven subaltern. and every one of those legend tell him of battle fight at long odds without fear a without support. of hospitality catholic a an arab s. of friendship deep a the sea and steady a the fight line. of honour win by hard road for honour s sake. and of instant and unquestioning devotion to the regiment the regiment that claim the life of all and life forever. 
more than once too he come officially into contact with the regimental colour which look like the line of a bricklayer s hat on the end of a chew stick. bobby do not kneel and worship them because british subaltern be not construct in that manner. indeed he condemn them for their weight at the very moment that they be fill him with awe and other more noble sentiment. 
but best of all be the occasion when he move with the tail twister in review order at the break of a november day. allow for duty men and sick the regiment be one thousand and eighty strong and bobby belong to them. for be he not a subaltern of the line the whole line and nothing but the line a the tramp of two thousand one hundred and sixty sturdy ammunition boot attest. he would not have change place with deighton of the horse battery whirl by in a pillar of cloud to a chorus of strong right. strong leave. or hogan yale of the white hussar lead his squadron for all it be worth with the price of horseshoe throw in. or tick boileau try to live up to his fierce blue and gold turban while the wasp of the bengal cavalry stretch to a gallop in the wake of the long lollopping walers of the white hussar. 
they fight through the clear cool day and bobby felt a little thrill run down his spine when he hear the tinkle tinkle tinkle of the empty cartridge case hop from the breech block after the roar of the volley. for he know that he should live to hear that sound in action. the review end in a glorious chase across the plain battery thunder after cavalry to the huge disgust of the white hussar and the tyneside tail twister hunt a sikh regiment till the lean lathy singhs pant with exhaustion. bobby be dusty and drip long before noon but his enthusiasm be merely focus not diminish. 
he return to sit at the foot of revere his skipper that be to say the captain of his company and to be instruct in the dark art and mystery of manage men which be a very large part of the profession of arm. 
if you haven t a taste that way say revere between his puff of his cheroot you ll never be able to get the hang of it but remember bobby tisn t the best drill though drill be nearly everything that haul a regiment through hell and out on the other side. it s the man who know how to handle men goat men swine men dog men and so on. 
dormer for instance say bobby. i think he come under the head of fool men. he mope like a sick owl. 
that s where you make your mistake my son. dormer isn t a fool yet but he s a dash dirty soldier and his room corporal make fun of his sock before kit inspection. dormer be two third pure brute go into a corner and growl. 
how do you know. say bobby admiringly. 
because a company commander ha to know these thing because if he doe not know he may have crime ay murder brew under his very nose and yet not see that it s there. dormer be be badger out of his mind big a he be and he hasn t intellect enough to resent it. he s take to quiet booze and bobby when the butt of a room go on the drink or take to mop by himself measure be necessary to pull him out of himself. 
what measure. man can t run round coddle his men for ever. 
no. the men would precious soon show him that he be not want. you ve get to. 
here the colour sergeant enter with some paper. bobby reflect for a while a revere look through the company form. 
doe dormer do anything sergeant. bobby ask with the air of one continue an interrupt conversation. 
no sir. doe be dooty like a hortomato say the sergeant who delight in long word. a dirty soldier and e s under full stoppage for new kit. it s cover with scale sir. 
scale. what scale. 
fish scale sir. e s always pokin in the mud by the river an a cleanin them muchly fish with be thumb. revere be still absorb in the company paper and the sergeant who be sternly fond of bobby continue e generally go down there when e s get be skinful beggin your pardon sir an they do say that the more lush inebriate e be the more fish e catch. they call im the looney fishmonger in the comp ny sir. 
revere sign the last paper and the sergeant retreat. 
it s a filthy amusement sigh bobby to himself. then aloud to revere. be you really worry about dormer. 
a little. you see he s never mad enough to send to hospital or drink enough to run in but at any minute he may flare up brood and sulk a he doe. he resent any interest be show in him and the only time i take him out shoot he all but shoot me by accident. 
i fish say bobby with a wry face. i hire a country boat and go down river from thursday to sunday and the amiable dormer go with me if you can spare u both. 
you blaze young fool. say revere but his heart be full of much more pleasant word. 
bobby the captain of a dhoni with private dormer for mate drop down the river on thursday morning the private at the bow the subaltern at the helm. the private glare uneasily at the subaltern who respect the reserve of the private. 
after six hour dormer pace to the stern salute and say beg y pardon sir but be you ever on the durh m canal. 
no say bobby wick. come and have some tiffin. 
they eat in silence. a the even fell private dormer break forth speak to himself. 
hi be on the durh m canal jes such a night come next week twelvemonth a trailin of my toe in the water. he smoke and say no more till bedtime. 
the witchery of the dawn turn the gray river reach to purple gold and opal. and it be a though the lumber dhoni creep across the splendour of a new heaven. 
private dormer pop his head out of his blanket and gaze at the glory below and around. 
well damn my eye. say private dormer in an awe whisper. this ere be like a bloomin gallantry show. for the rest of the day he be dumb but achieve an ensanguined filthiness through the clean of big fish. 
the boat return on saturday even. dormer have be struggle with speech since noon. a the line and luggage be be disembark he find tongue. 
beg y pardon sir he say but would you would you min shakin ands with me sir. 
of course not say bobby and he shake accordingly. dormer return to barrack and bobby to mess. 
he want a little quiet and some fish i think say bobby. my aunt but he s a filthy sort of animal. have you ever see him clean them muchly fish with be thumb. 
anyhow say revere three week late he s do his best to keep his thing clean. 
when the spring die bobby join in the general scramble for hill leave and to his surprise and delight secure three month. 
a good a boy a i want say revere the admire skipper. 
the best of the batch say the adjutant to the colonel. keep back that young skrimshanker porkiss sir and let revere make him sit up. 
so bobby depart joyously to simla pahar with a tin box of gorgeous raiment. 
son of wick old wick of chota buldana. ask him to dinner dear say the age men. 
what a nice boy. say the matron and the maid. 
first class place simla. oh ri ipping. say bobby wick and order new white cord breech on the strength of it. 
we re in a bad way write revere to bobby at the end of two month. since you leave the regiment ha take to fever and be fairly rotten with it two hundred in hospital about a hundred in cell drink to keep off fever and the company on parade fifteen file strong at the outside. there s rather more sickness in the out village than i care for but then i m so blister with prickly heat that i m ready to hang myself. what s the yarn about your mash a miss haverley up there. not serious i hope. you re over young to hang millstone round your neck and the colonel will turf you out of that in double quick time if you attempt it. 
it be not the colonel that bring bobby out of simla but a much more to be respect commandant. the sickness in the out village spread the bazar be put out of bound and then come the news that the tail twister must go into camp. the message flash to the hill station. cholera leave stop officer recall. ala for the white glove in the neatly solder box the ride and the dance and picnic that be to be the love half speak and the debt unpaid. without demur and without question fast a tonga could fly or pony gallop back to their regiment and their battery a though they be hasten to their wedding flee the subaltern. 
bobby receive his order on return from a dance at viceregal lodge where he have but only the haverley girl know what bobby have say or how many waltz he have claim for the next ball. six in the morning saw bobby at the tonga office in the drench rain the whirl of the last waltz still in his ear and an intoxication due neither to wine nor waltz in his brain. 
good man. shout deighton of the horse battery through the mist. whar you raise dat tonga. i m come with you. ow. but i ve a head and half. i didn t sit out all night. they say the battery s awful bad and he hum dolorously. 
leave the what at the what s it name leave the flock without shelter leave the corpse uninterred leave the bride at the altar. 
my faith. it ll be more bally corpse than bride though this journey. jump in bobby. get on coachwan. 
on the umballa platform wait a detachment of officer discuss the late news from the stricken cantonment and it be here that bobby learn the real condition of the tail twister. 
they go into camp say an elderly major recall from the whist table at mussoorie to a sickly native regiment they go into camp with two hundred and ten sick in cart. two hundred and ten fever case only and the balance look like so many ghost with sore eye. a madras regiment could have walk through em. 
but they be a fit a be damn when i leave them. say bobby. 
then you d good make them a fit a be damn when you rejoin say the major brutally. 
bobby press his forehead against the rain splash window pane a the train lumber across the sodden doab and pray for the health of the tyneside tail twister. naini tal have send down her contingent with all speed. the lather pony of the dalhousie road stagger into pathankot tax to the full stretch of their strength. while from cloudy darjiling the calcutta mail whirl up the last straggler of the little army that be to fight a fight in which be neither medal nor honour for the win against an enemy none other than the sickness that destroyeth in the noonday. 
and a each man report himself he say. this be a bad business and go about his own forthwith for every regiment and battery in the cantonment be under canvas the sickness bear them company. 
bobby fight his way through the rain to the tail twister temporary mess and revere could have fall on the boy s neck for the joy of see that ugly wholesome phiz once more. 
keep em amuse and interest say revere. they go on the drink poor fool after the first two case and there be no improvement. oh it s good to have you back bobby. porkiss be a never mind. 
deighton come over from the artillery camp to attend a dreary mess dinner and contribute to the general gloom by nearly weep over the condition of his beloved battery. porkiss so far forget himself a to insinuate that the presence of the officer could do no earthly good and that the best thing would be to send the entire regiment into hospital and let the doctor look after them. porkiss be demoralise with fear nor be his peace of mind restore when revere say coldly. oh. the sooner you go out the good if that s your way of think. any public school could send u fifty good men in your place but it take time time porkiss and money and a certain amount of trouble to make a regiment. s pose you re the person we go into camp for eh. 
whereupon porkiss be overtake with a great and chilly fear which a drench in the rain do not allay and two day late quit this world for another where men do fondly hope allowance be make for the weakness of the flesh. the regimental sergeant major look wearily across the sergeant mess tent when the news be announce. 
there go the bad of them he say. it ll take the best and then please god it ll stop. the sergeant be silent till one say. it couldn t be him. and all know of whom travis be think. 
bobby wick storm through the tent of his company rally rebuke mildly a be consistent with the regulation chaff the fainthearted. hale the sound into the watery sunlight when there be a break in the weather and bid them be of good cheer for their trouble be nearly at an end. scuttle on his dun pony round the outskirt of the camp and head back men who with the innate perversity of british soldier be always wander into infect village or drink deeply from rain flood marsh. comfort the panic stricken with rude speech and more than once tend the die who have no friend the men without towny. organize with banjo and burn cork sing song which should allow the talent of the regiment full play. and generally a he explain play the giddy garden goat all round. 
you re worth half a dozen of u bobby say revere in a moment of enthusiasm. how the devil do you keep it up. 
bobby make no answer but have revere look into the breast pocket of his coat he might have see there a sheaf of badly write letter which perhaps account for the power that possess the boy. a letter come to bobby every other day. the spell be not above reproach but the sentiment must have be most satisfactory for on receipt bobby s eye soften marvellously and he be wont to fall into a tender abstraction for a while ere shake his crop head he charge into his work. 
by what power he draw after him the heart of the rough and the tail twister count in their rank some rough diamond indeed be a mystery to both skipper and c. who learn from the regimental chaplain that bobby be considerably more in request in the hospital tent than the reverend john emery. 
the men seem fond of you. be you in the hospital much. say the colonel who do his daily round and order the men to get well with a hardness that do not cover his bitter grief. 
a little sir say bobby. 
shouldn t go there too often if i be you. they say it s not contagious but there s no use in run unnecessary risk. we can t afford to have you down y know. 
six day late it be with the utmost difficulty that the post runner plash his way out to the camp with the mail bag for the rain be fall in torrent. bobby receive a letter bore it off to his tent and the programme for the next week s sing song be satisfactorily dispose of sit down to answer it. for an hour the unhandy pen toil over the paper and where sentiment rise to more than normal tide level bobby wick stick out his tongue and breathe heavily. he be not use to letter write. 
beg y pardon sir say a voice at the tent door. but dormer s orrid bad sir an they ve take him orf sir. 
damn private dormer and you too. say bobby wick run the blotter over the half finish letter. tell him i ll come in the morning. 
e s awful bad sir say the voice hesitatingly. there be an undecided squelch of heavy boot. 
well. say bobby impatiently. 
excusin imself before and for takin the liberty e say it would be a comfort for to assist im sir if. 

tattoo lao. get my pony. here come in out of the rain till i m ready. what blast nuisance you be. that s brandy. drink some. you want it. hang on to my stirrup and tell me if i go too fast. 
strengthen by a four finger nip which he swallow without a wink the hospital orderly keep up with the slip mud stain and very disgust pony a it shamble to the hospital tent. 
private dormer be certainly orrid bad. he have all but reach the stage of collapse and be not pleasant to look upon. 
what s this dormer. say bobby bend over the man. you re not go out this time. you ve get to come fish with me once or twice more yet. 
the blue lip part and in the ghost of a whisper say beg y pardon sir disturbin of you now but would you min oldin my and sir. 
bobby sit on the side of the bed and the icy cold hand close on his own like a vice force a lady s ring which be on the little finger deep into the flesh. bobby set his lip and wait the water drip from the hem of his trouser. an hour pass and the grasp of the hand do not relax nor do the expression of the draw face change. bobby with infinite craft light himself a cheroot with the leave hand. his right arm be numb to the elbow. and resign himself to a night of pain. 
dawn show a very white face subaltern sit on the side of a sick man s cot and a doctor in the doorway use language unfit for publication. 
have you be here all night you young as. say the doctor. 
there or thereabouts say bobby ruefully. he s freeze on to me. 
dormer s mouth shut with a click. he turn his head and sigh. the cling hand open and bobby s arm fell useless at his side. 
he ll do say the doctor quietly. it must have be a toss up all through the night. think you re to be congratulate on this case. 
oh bosh. say bobby. i think the man have go out long ago only only i didn t care to take my hand away. rub my arm down there s a good chap. what a grip the brute ha. i m chill to the marrow. he pass out of the tent shiver. 
private dormer be allow to celebrate his repulse of death by strong water. four day late he sit on the side of his cot and say to the patient mildly. i d a liken to a speak to im so i should. 
but at that time bobby be read yet another letter he have the most persistent correspondent of any man in camp and be even then about to write that the sickness have abate and in another week at the outside would be go. he do not intend to say that the chill of a sick man s hand seem to have strike into the heart whose capacity for affection he dwell on at such length. he do intend to enclose the illustrate programme of the forthcoming sing song whereof he be not a little proud. he also intend to write on many other matter which do not concern u and doubtless would have do so but for the slight feverish headache which make him dull and unresponsive at mess. 
you be overdo it bobby say his skipper. might give the rest of u credit of do a little work. you go on a if you be the whole mess roll into one. take it easy. 
i will say bobby. i m feel do up somehow. revere look at him anxiously and say nothing. 
there be a flicker of lantern about the camp that night and a rumour that bring men out of their cot to the tent door a paddle of the naked foot of doolie bearer and the rush of a gallop horse. 
wot s up. ask twenty tent. and through twenty tent run the answer wick e s down. 
they bring the news to revere and he groan. any one but bobby and i shouldn t have care. the sergeant major be right. 
not go out this journey gasp bobby a he be lift from the doolie. not go out this journey. then with an air of supreme conviction i can t you see. 
not if i can do anything. say the surgeon major who have hasten over from the mess where he have be din. 
he and the regimental surgeon fight together with death for the life of bobby wick. their work be interrupt by a hairy apparition in a blue gray dress gown who star in horror at the bed and cry oh my gawd. it can t be im. until an indignant hospital orderly whisk him away. 
if care of man and desire to live could have do aught bobby would have be save. a it be he make a fight of three day and the surgeon major s brow uncreased. we ll save him yet he say. and the surgeon who though he rank with the captain have a very youthful heart go out upon the word and prance joyously in the mud. 
not go out this journey whisper bobby wick gallantly at the end of the third day. 
bravo. say the surgeon major. that s the way to look at it bobby. 
a even fell a gray shade gather round bobby s mouth and he turn his face to the tent wall wearily. the surgeon major frown. 
i m awfully tire say bobby very faintly. what s the use of bother me with medicine. i don t want it. let me alone. 
the desire for life have depart and bobby be content to drift away on the easy tide of death. 
it s no good say the surgeon major. he doesn t want to live. he s meet it poor child. and he blow his nose. 
half a mile away the regimental band be play the overture to the sing song for the men have be tell that bobby be out of danger. the clash of the brass and the wail of the horn reach bobby s ear. 
be there a single joy or pain that i should never kno ow. you do not love me ti in vain bid me good bye and go. 
an expression of hopeless irritation cross the boy s face and he try to shake his head. 
the surgeon major bend down what be it bobby. not that waltz mutter bobby. that s our own our very own own. mummy dear. 
with this he sink into the stupor that give place to death early next morning. 
revere his eye red at the rim and his nose very white go into bobby s tent to write a letter to papa wick which should bow the white head of the ex commissioner of chota buldana in the keen sorrow of his life. bobby s little store of paper lay in confusion on the table and among them a half finish letter. the last sentence run. so you see darling there be really no fear because a long a i know you care for me and i care for you nothing can touch me. 
revere stay in the tent for an hour. when he come out his eye be red than ever. 
private conklin sit on a turn down bucket and listen to a not unfamiliar tune. private conklin be a convalescent and should have be tenderly treat. 
ho. say private conklin. there s another bloomin orf cer da ed. 
the bucket shoot from under him and his eye fill with a smithyful of spark. a tall man in a blue gray bedgown be regard him with deep disfavour. 
you ought to take shame for yourself conky. orf cer. bloomin orf cer. i ll learn you to misname the like of im. hangel. bloomin hangel. that s wot e be. 
and the hospital orderly be so satisfy with the justice of the punishment that he do not even order private dormer back to his cot. 
in the matter of a private. 
hurrah. hurrah. a soldier s life for me. shout boy shout. for it make you jolly and free. 
the ramrod corp. 
people who have see say that one of the quaint spectacle of human frailty be an outbreak of hysteric in a girl school. it start without warn generally on a hot afternoon among the elder pupil. a girl giggle till the giggle get beyond control. then she throw up her head and cry honk honk honk like a wild goose and tear mix with the laughter. if the mistress be wise she will rap out something severe at this point to check matter. if she be tender hearted and send for a drink of water the chance be largely in favour of another girl laugh at the afflict one and herself collapse. thus the trouble spread and may end in half of what answer to the low sixth of a boy school rock and whoop together. give a week of warm weather two stately promenade per diem a heavy mutton and rice meal in the middle of the day a certain amount of nag from the teacher and a few other thing some amaze effect develop. at least this be what folk say who have have experience. 
now the mother superior of a convent and the colonel of a british infantry regiment would be justly shock at any comparison be make between their respective charge. but it be a fact that under certain circumstance thomas in bulk can be work up into ditthering ripple hysteria. he doe not weep but he show his trouble unmistakably and the consequence get into the newspaper and all the good people who hardly know a martini from a snide say. take away the brute s ammunition. 
thomas isn t a brute and his business which be to look after the virtuous people demand that he shall have his ammunition to his hand. he doesn t wear silk stocking and he really ought to be supply with a new adjective to help him to express his opinion. but for all that he be a great man. if you call him the heroic defender of the national honour one day and a brutal and licentious soldiery the next you naturally bewilder him and he look upon you with suspicion. there be nobody to speak for thomas except people who have theory to work off on him and nobody understand thomas except thomas and he doe not always know what be the matter with himself. 
that be the prologue. this be the story. 
corporal slane be engage to be marry to miss jhansi m kenna whose history be well know in the regiment and elsewhere. he have his colonel s permission and be popular with the men every arrangement have be make to give the wed what private ortheris call eeklar. it fell in the heart of the hot weather and after the wed slane be go up to the hill with the bride. none the le slane s grievance be that the affair would be only a hire carriage wed and he felt that the eeklar of that be meagre. miss m kenna do not care so much. the sergeant s wife be help her to make her wed dress and she be very busy. slane be just then the only moderately content man in barrack. all the rest be more or le miserable. 
and they have so much to make them happy too. all their work be over at eight in the morning and for the rest of the day they could lie on their back and smoke canteen plug and swear at the punkah cooly. they enjoy a fine full flesh meal in the middle of the day and then throw themselves down on their cot and sweat and sleep till it be cool enough to go out with their towny whose vocabulary contain le than six hundred word and the adjective and whose view on every conceivable question they have hear many time before. 
there be the canteen of course and there be the temperance room with the second hand paper in it. but a man of any profession cannot read for eight hour a day in a temperature of  or  in the shade run up sometimes to  at midnight. very few men even though they get a pannikin of flat stale muddy beer and hide it under their cot can continue drink for six hour a day. one man try but he die and nearly the whole regiment go to his funeral because it give them something to do. it be too early for the excitement of fever or cholera. the men could only wait and wait and wait and watch the shadow of the barrack creep across the blind white dust. that be a gay life. 
they lounge about cantonment it be too hot for any sort of game and almost too hot for vice and fuddle themselves in the even and fill themselves to distension with the healthy nitrogenous food provide for them and the more they stoke the le exercise they take and more explosive they grow. then temper begin to wear away and men fell a brood over insult real or imaginary for they have nothing else to think of. the tone of the repartee change and instead of say light heartedly. i ll knock your silly face in men grow laboriously polite and hint that the cantonment be not big enough for themselves and their enemy and that there would be more space for one of the two in another place. 
it may have be the devil who arrange the thing but the fact of the case be that losson have for a long time be worry simmons in an aimless way. it give him occupation. the two have their cot side by side and would sometimes spend a long afternoon swear at each other. but simmons be afraid of losson and dare not challenge him to a fight. he think over the word in the hot still night and half the hate he felt towards losson he vent on the wretched punkah coolie. 
losson buy a parrot in the bazar and put it into a little cage and lower the cage into the cool darkness of a well and sit on the well curb shout bad language down to the parrot. he teach it to say. simmons ye so oor which mean swine and several other thing entirely unfit for publication. he be a big gross man and he shake like a jelly when the parrot have the sentence correctly. simmons however shake with rage for all the room be laugh at him the parrot be such a disreputable puff of green feather and it look so human when it chatter. losson use to sit swing his fat leg on the side of the cot and ask the parrot what it think of simmons. the parrot would answer. simmons ye so oor. good boy losson use to say scratch the parrot s head. ye ear that sim. and simmons use to turn over on his stomach and make answer. i ear. take eed you don t ear something one of these day. 
in the restless night after he have be asleep all day fit of blind rage come upon simmons and hold him till he tremble all over while he think in how many different way he would slay losson. sometimes he would picture himself trample the life out of the man with heavy ammunition boot and at others smash in his face with the butt and at others jump on his shoulder and drag the head back till the neckbone crack. then his mouth would feel hot and fevered and he would reach out for another sup of the beer in the pannikin. 
but the fancy that come to him most frequently and stay with him long be one connect with the great roll of fat under losson s right ear. he notice it first on a moonlight night and thereafter it be always before his eye. it be a fascinate roll of fat. a man could get his hand upon it and tear away one side of the neck. or he could place the muzzle of a rifle on it and blow away all the head in a flash. losson have no right to be sleek and content and well to do when he simmons be the butt of the room. some day perhaps he would show those who laugh at the simmons ye so oor joke that he be a good a the rest and hold a man s life in the crook of his forefinger. when losson snore simmons hat him more bitterly than ever. why should losson be able to sleep when simmons have to stay awake hour after hour toss and turn on the tape with the dull liver pain gnaw into his right side and his head throb and ache after canteen. he think over this for many many night and the world become unprofitable to him. he even blunt his naturally fine appetite with beer and tobacco. and all the while the parrot talk at and make a mock of him. 
the heat continue and the temper wear away more quickly than before. a sergeant s wife die of heat apoplexy in the night and the rumour run abroad that it be cholera. men rejoice openly hop that it would spread and send them into camp. but that be a false alarm. 
it be late on a tuesday even and the men be wait in the deep double verandah for last post when simmons go to the box at the foot of his bed take out his pipe and slam the lid down with a bang that echo through the desert barrack like the crack of a rifle. ordinarily speak the men would have take no notice. but their nerve be fret to fiddle string. they jump up and three or four clatter into the barrack room only to find simmons kneel by his box. 
ow. it s you be it. they say and laugh foolishly. we think twas. 
simmons rise slowly. if the accident have so shake his fellow what would not the reality do. 
you think it be do you. and what make you think. he say lash himself into madness a he go on. to hell with your think ye dirty spy. 
simmons ye so oor chuckle the parrot in the verandah sleepily recognise a well know voice. now that be absolutely all. 
the tension snap. simmons fell back on the arm rack deliberately the men be at the far end of the room and take out his rifle and packet of ammunition. don t go play the goat sim. say losson. put it down but there be a quaver in his voice. another man stoop slip his boot and hurl it at simmons s head. the prompt answer be a shoot which fire at random find it billet in losson s throat. losson fell forward without a word and the others scatter. 
you think it be. yell simmons. you re drivin me to it. i tell you you re drivin me to it. get up losson an don t lie shammin there you an your blast parrit that druv me to it. 
but there be an unaffected reality about losson s pose that show simmons what he have do. the men be still clamour in the verandah. simmons appropriate two more packet of ammunition and run into the moonlight mutter. i ll make a night of it. thirty roun s an the last for myself. take you that you dog. 
he drop on one knee and fire into the brown of the men on the verandah but the bullet fly high and land in the brickwork with a vicious phwit that make some of the young one turn pale. it be a musketry theorist observe one thing to fire and another to be fire at. 
then the instinct of the chase flare up. the news spread from barrack to barrack and the men double out intent on the capture of simmons the wild beast who be head for the cavalry parade grind stop now and again to send back a shoot and a curse in the direction of his pursuer. 
i ll learn you to spy on me. he shout. i ll learn you to give me dorg s name. come on the ole lot o you. colonel john anthony deever c. b. he turn towards the infantry mess and shake his rifle you think yourself the devil of a man but i tell you that if you put your ugly old carcass outside o that door i ll make you the poor lookin man in the army. come out colonel john anthony deever c. b. come out and see me practiss on the rainge. i m the crack shoot of the ole bloomin battalion. in proof of which statement simmons fire at the light window of the mess house. 
private simmons e comp ny on the cavalry p rade grind sir with thirty round say a sergeant breathlessly to the colonel. shootin right and lef sir. shoot private losson. what s to be do sir. 
colonel john anthony deever c. b. sallied out only to be salute by a spurt of dust at his foot. 
pull up. say the second in command. i don t want my step in that way colonel. he s a dangerous a a mad dog. 
shoot him like one then say the colonel bitterly if he win t take his chance. my regiment too. if it have be the towhead i could have understand. 
private simmons have occupy a strong position near a well on the edge of the parade grind and be defy the regiment to come on. the regiment be not anxious to comply for there be small honour in be shoot by a fellow private. only corporal slane rifle in hand throw himself down on the grind and worm his way towards the well. 
don t shoot say he to the men round him. like a not you ll it me. i ll catch the beggar livin. 
simmons cease shout for a while and th noise of trap wheel could be hear across the plain. major oldyne command the horse battery be come back from a dinner in the civil line. be drive after his usual custom that be to say a fast a the horse could go. 
a orf cer. a bloom spangle orf cer. shriek simmons. i ll make a scarecrow of that orf cer. the trap stop. 
what s this. demand the major of gunner. you there drop your rifle. 
why it s jerry blaze. i ain t get no quarrel with you jerry blaze. pas frien an all s well. 
but jerry blaze have not the faint intention of pass a dangerous murderer. he be a his adore battery swear long and fervently without knowledge of fear and they be surely the best judge for jerry blaze it be notorious have do his possible to kill a man each time the battery go out. 
he walk towards simmons with the intention of rush him and knock him down. 
don t make me do it sir say simmons. i ain t get nothing ag in you. ah. you would. the major break into a run take that then. 
the major drop with a bullet through his shoulder and simmons stand over him. he have lose the satisfaction of kill losson in the desire way. but here be a helpless body to his hand. should he slip in another cartridge and blow off the head or with the butt smash in the white face. he stop to consider and a cry go up from the far side of the parade grind. he s kill jerry blaze. but in the shelter of the well pillar simmons be safe except when he step out to fire. i ll blow yer andsome ead off jerry blaze say simmons reflectively. six and three be nine an one be ten an that leaf me another nineteen an one for myself he tug at the string of the second packet of ammunition. corporal slane crawl out of the shadow of a bank into the moonlight. 
i see you. say simmons. come a bite furder on an i ll do for you. 
i m comin say corporal slane briefly. you ve do a bad day s work sim. come out ere an come back with me. 
come to laugh simmons send a cartridge home with his thumb. not before i ve settle you an jerry blaze. 
the corporal be lie at full length in the dust of the parade grind a rifle under him. some of the le cautious men in the distance shout. shoot im. shoot im slane. 
you move and or foot slane say simmons an i ll kick jerry blaze ead in and shoot you after. 
i ain t movin say the corporal raise his head. you daren t it a man on be leg. let go o jerry blaze an come out o that with your fistes. come an it me. you daren t you bloom in dog shooter. 
i dare. 
you lie you man sticker. you sneakin sheeny butch you lie. see there. slane kick the rifle away and stand up in the peril of his life. come on now. 
the temptation be more than simmons could resist for the corporal in his white clothe offer a perfect mark. 
don t misname me shout simmons fire a he speak. the shoot miss and the shooter blind with rage throw his rifle down and rush at slane from the protection of the well. within strike distance he kick savagely at slane s stomach but the weedy corporal know something of simmons s weakness and know too the deadly guard for that kick. bow forward and draw up his right leg till the heel of the right foot be set some three inch above the inside of the leave knee cap he meet the blow stand on one leg exactly a gond stand when they meditate and ready for the fall that would follow. there be an oath the corporal fell over to his own leave a shinbone meet shinbone and the private collapse his right leg break an inch above the ankle. 
pity you don t know that guard sim say slane spit out the dust a he rise. then raise his voice come an take him on. i ve bruk be leg. this be not strictly true for the private have accomplish his own downfall since it be the special merit of that leg guard that the hard the kick the great the kicker s discomfiture. 
slane walk to jerry blaze and hang over him with ostentatious anxiety while simmons weep with pain be carry away. ope you ain t urt badly sir say slane. the major have faint and there be an ugly rag hole through the top of his arm. slane kneel down and murmur. s elp me i believe e s dead. well if that ain t my bloom luck all over. 
but the major be destine to lead his battery afield for many a long day with unshaken nerve. he be remove and nurse and pet into convalescence while the battery discuss the wisdom of capture simmons and blow him from a gun. they idolise their major and his reappearance on parade bring about a scene nowhere provide for in the army regulation. 
great too be the glory that fell to slane s share. the gunner would have make him drink thrice a day for at least a fortnight. even the colonel of his own regiment compliment him upon his coolness and the local paper call him a hero. these thing do not puff him up. when the major offer him money and thank the virtuous corporal take the one and put aside the other. but he have a request to make and preface it with many a beg y pardon sir. could the major see his way to let the slane m kenna wed be adorn by the presence of four battery horse to pull a hire barouche. the major could and so could the battery. excessively so. it be a gorgeous wed. 
wot do i do it for. say corporal slane. for the or o course. jhansi ain t a beauty to look at but i wasn t goin to ave a hire turnout. jerry blaze. if i adn t a want something sim might ha blow jerry blaze bloom ead into hirish stew for aught i d a care. 
and they hang private simmons hang him a high a haman in hollow square of the regiment. and the colonel say it be drink. and the chaplain be sure it be the devil. and simmons fancy it be both but he didn t know and only hop his fate would be a warn to his companion. and half a dozen intelligent publicist write six beautiful lead article on the prevalence of crime in the army. 
but not a soul think of compare the bloody mind simmons to the squawk gap school girl with which this story open. 
the lose legion. 
when the indian mutiny break out and a little time before the siege of delhi a regiment of native irregular horse be station at peshawur on the frontier of india. that regiment catch what john lawrence call at the time the prevalent mania and would have throw in it lot with the mutineer have it be allow to do so. the chance never come for a the regiment sweep off down south it be head off by a remnant of an english corp into the hill of afghanistan and there the newly conquer tribesman turn against it a wolf turn against buck. it be hunt for the sake of it arm and accoutrement from hill to hill from ravine to ravine up and down the dry bed of river and round the shoulder of bluff till it disappear a water sink in the sand this officerless rebel regiment. the only trace leave of it existence to day be a nominal roll draw up in neat round hand and countersign by an officer who call himself adjutant late irregular cavalry. the paper be yellow with year and dirt but on the back of it you can still read a pencil note by john lawrence to this effect. see that the two native officer who remain loyal be not deprive of their estate. j. l. of six hundred and fifty sabre only two stand strain and john lawrence in the midst of all the agony of the first month of the mutiny find time to think about their merit. 
that be more than thirty year ago and the tribesman across the afghan border who help to annihilate the regiment be now old men. sometimes a graybeard speak of his share in the massacre. they come he will say across the border very proud call upon u to rise and kill the english and go down to the sack of delhi. but we who have just be conquer by the same english know that they be over bold and that the government could account easily for those down country dog. this hindustani regiment therefore we treat with fair word and keep stand in one place till the redcoat come after them very hot and angry. then this regiment run forward a little more into our hill to avoid the wrath of the english and we lay upon their flank watch from the side of the hill till we be well assure that their path be lose behind them. then we come down for we desire their clothe and their bridle and their rifle and their boot more especially their boot. that be a great kill do slowly. here the old man will rub his nose and shake his long snaky lock and lick his beard lip and grin till the yellow tooth stump show. yea we kill them because we need their gear and we know that their life have be forfeit to god on account of their sin the sin of treachery to the salt which they have eat. they ride up and down the valley stumble and rock in their saddle and howl for mercy. we drive them slowly like cattle till they be all assemble in one place the flat wide valley of sheor kt. many have die from want of water but there still be many leave and they could not make any stand. we go among them pull them down with our hand two at a time and our boy kill them who be new to the sword. my share of the plunder be such and such so many gun and so many saddle. the gun be good in those day. now we steal the government rifle and despise smooth barrel. yes beyond doubt we wipe that regiment from off the face of the earth and even the memory of the deed be now die. but men say. 
at this point the tale would stop abruptly and it be impossible to find out what men say across the border. the afghan be always a secretive race and vastly prefer do something wicked to say anything at all. they would be quiet and well behave for month till one night without word or warn they would rush a police post cut the throat of a constable or two dash through a village carry away three or four woman and withdraw in the red glare of burn thatch drive the cattle and goat before them to their own desolate hill. the indian government would become almost tearful on these occasion. first it would say please be good and we ll forgive you. the tribe concern in the late depredation would collectively put it thumb to it nose and answer rudely. then the government would say. hadn t you good pay up a little money for those few corps you leave behind you the other night. here the tribe would temporise and lie and bully and some of the young men merely to show contempt of authority would raid another police post and fire into some frontier mud fort and if lucky kill a real english officer. then the government would say. observe. if you really persist in this line of conduct you will be hurt. if the tribe know exactly what be go on in india it would apologise or be rude accord a it learn whether the government be busy with other thing or able to devote it full attention to their performance. some of the tribe know to one corpse how far to go. others become excite lose their head and tell the government to come on. with sorrow and tear and one eye on the british taxpayer at home who insist on regard these exercise a brutal war of annexation the government would prepare an expensive little field brigade and some gun and send all up into the hill to chase the wicked tribe out of the valley where the corn grow into the hill top where there be nothing to eat. the tribe would turn out in full strength and enjoy the campaign for they know that their woman would never be touch that their wound would be nurse not mutilate and that a soon a each man s bag of corn be spend they could surrender and palaver with the english general a though they have be a real enemy. afterwards year afterwards they would pay the blood money driblet by driblet to the government and tell their child how they have slay the redcoat by thousand. the only drawback to this kind of picnic war be the weakness of the redcoat for solemnly blow up with powder their fortify tower and keep. this the tribe always consider mean. 
chief among the leader of the small tribe the little clan who know to a penny the expense of move white troop against them be a priest bandit chief whom we will call the gulla kutta mullah. his enthusiasm for border murder a an art be almost dignify. he would cut down a mail runner from pure wantonness or bombard a mud fort with rifle fire when he know that our men need to sleep. in his leisure moment he would go on circuit among his neighbour and try to incite other tribe to devilry. also he keep a kind of hotel for fellow outlaw in his own village which lay in a valley call bersund. any respectable murderer on that section of the frontier be sure to lie up at bersund for it be reckon an exceedingly safe place. the sole entry to it run through a narrow gorge which could be convert into a death trap in five minute. it be surround by high hill reckon inaccessible to all save bear mountaineer and here the gulla kutta mullah live in great state the head of a colony of mud and stone hut and in each mud hut hang some portion of a red uniform and the plunder of dead men. the government particularly wish for his capture and once invite him formally to come out and be hang on account of the many murder in which he have take a direct part. he reply. 
i be only twenty mile a the crow fly from your border. come and fetch me. some day we will come say the government and hang you will be. 
the gulla kutta mullah let the matter slip from his mind. he know that the patience of the government be a long a a summer day. but he do not realise that it arm be a long a a winter night. month afterwards when there be peace on the border and all india be quiet the indian government turn in it sleep and remember the gulla kutta mullah at bersund with his thirteen outlaw. the movement against him of one single regiment which the telegram would have translate a war would have be highly impolitic. this be a time for silence and speed and above all absence of bloodshed. 
you must know that all along the north west frontier of india there be spread a force of some thirty thousand foot and horse whose duty it be to quietly and unostentatiously shepherd the tribe in front of them. they move up and down and down and up from one desolate little post to another. they be ready to take the field at ten minute notice. they be always half in and half out of a difficulty somewhere along the monotonous line. their life be a hard a their own muscle and the paper never say anything about them. it be from this force that the government pick it men. 
one night at a station where the mount night patrol fire a they challenge and the wheat roll in great blue green wave under our cold northern moon the officer be play billiards in the mud wall club house when order come to them that they be to go on parade at once for a night drill. they grumble and go to turn out their men a hundred english troop let u say two hundred goorkhas and about a hundred cavalry of the fine native cavalry in the world. 
when they be on the parade grind it be explain to them in whisper that they must set off at once across the hill to bersund. the english troop be to post themselves round the hill at the side of the valley. the goorkhas would command the gorge and the death trap and the cavalry would fetch a long march round and get to the back of the circle of hill whence if there be any difficulty they could charge down on the mullah s men. but order be very strict that there should be no fight and no noise. they be to return in the morning with every round of ammunition intact and the mullah and the thirteen outlaw bind in their midst. if they be successful no one would know or care anything about their work. but failure mean probably a small border war in which the gulla kutta mullah would pose a a popular leader against a big bully power instead of a common border murderer. 
then there be silence break only by the click of the compass needle and snap of watch case a the head of column compare bearing and make appointment for the rendezvous. five minute late the parade grind be empty. the green coat of the goorkhas and the overcoat of the english troop have fade into the darkness and the cavalry be canter away in the face of a blind drizzle. 
what the goorkhas and the english do will be see late on. the heavy work lay with the horse for they have to go far and pick their way clear of habitation. many of the trooper be native of that part of the world ready and anxious to fight against their kin and some of the officer have make private and unofficial excursion into those hill before. they cross the border find a dry river bed canter up that walk through a stony gorge risk cross a low hill under cover of the darkness skirt another hill leave their hoof mark deep in some plough grind felt their way along another water course run over the neck of a spur pray that no one would hear their horse grunt and so work on in the rain and the darkness till they have leave bersund and it crater of hill a little behind them and to the leave and it be time to swing round. the ascent command the back of bersund be steep and they halt to draw breath in a broad level valley below the height. that be to say the men rein up but the horse blow a they be refuse to halt. there be unchristian language the bad for be deliver in a whisper and you hear the saddle squeak in the darkness a the horse plunge. 
the subaltern at the rear of one troop turn in his saddle and say very softly. 
carter what the bless heaven be you do at the rear. bring your men up man. 
there be no answer till a trooper reply. 
carter sahib be forward not here. there be nothing behind u. 
there be say the subaltern. the squadron s walk on it own tail. 
then the major in command move down to the rear swear softly and ask for the blood of lieutenant halley the subaltern who have just speak. 
look after your rearguard say the major. some of your infernal thief have get lose. they re at the head of the squadron and you re a several kind of idiot. 
shall i tell off my men sir. say the subaltern sulkily for he be feel wet and cold. 
tell em off. say the major. whip em off by gad. you re squander them all over the place. there s a troop behind you now. 
so i be think say the subaltern calmly. i have all my men here sir. good speak to carter. 
carter sahib send salaam and want to know why the regiment be stop say a trooper to lieutenant halley. 
where under heaven be carter say the major. 
forward with his troop be the answer. 
be we walk in a ring then or be we the centre of a bless brigade. say the major. 
by this time there be silence all along the column. the horse be still. but through the drive of the fine rain men could hear the foot of many horse move over stony grind. 
we re be stalk say lieutenant halley. 
they ve no horse here. besides they d have fire before this say the major. it s it s villager pony. 
then our horse would have neigh and spoil the attack long ago. they must have be near u for half an hour say the subaltern. 
queer that we can t smell the horse say the major damp his finger and rub it on his nose a he sniff up wind. 
well it s a bad start say the subaltern shake the wet from his overcoat. what shall we do sir. 
get on say the major. we shall catch it to night. 
the column move forward very gingerly for a few pace. then there be an oath a shower of blue spark a shoe hoof crash on small stone and a man roll over with a jangle of accoutrement that would have wake the dead. 
now we ve go and do it say lieutenant halley. all the hillside awake and all the hillside to climb in the face of musketry fire. this come of try to do night hawk work. 
the tremble trooper pick himself up and try to explain that his horse have fall over one of the little cairn that be build of loose stone on the spot where a man ha be murder. there be no need to give reason. the major s big australian charger blunder next and the column come to a halt in what seem to be a very graveyard of little cairn all about two foot high. the manoeuvre of the squadron be not report. men say that it felt like mount quadrille without train and without the music. but at last the horse break rank and choose their own way walk clear of the cairn till every man of the squadron reform and draw rein a few yard up the slope of the hill. then accord to lieutenant halley there be another scene very like the one which ha be describe. the major and carter insist that all the men have not join rank and that there be more of them in the rear click and blunder among the dead men s cairn. lieutenant halley tell off his own trooper again and resign himself to wait. late on he say to me. 
i didn t much know and i didn t much care what be go on. the row of that trooper fall ought to have scar half the country and i would take my oath that we be be stalk by a full regiment in the rear and they be make row enough to rouse all afghanistan. i sit tight but nothing happen. 
the mysterious part of the night s work be the silence on the hillside. everybody know that the gulla kutta mullah have his outpost hut on the reverse side of the hill and everybody expect by the time that the major have swear himself into quiet that the watchman there would open fire. when nothing happen they say that the gust of the rain have deaden the sound of the horse and thank providence. at last the major satisfy himself. a. that he have leave no one behind among the cairn and. b. that he be not be take in the rear by a large and powerful body of cavalry. the men s temper be thoroughly spoil the horse be lather and unquiet and one and all pray for the daylight. 
they set themselves to climb up the hill each man lead his mount carefully. before they have cover the low slope or the breast plate have begin to tighten a thunderstorm come up behind roll across the low hill and drown any noise le than that of cannon. the first flash of the lightning show the bare rib of the ascent thc hill crest stand steely blue against the black sky the little fall line of the rain and a few yard to their leave flank an afghan watch tower two storied build of stone and enter by a ladder from the upper story. the ladder be up and a man with a rifle be lean from the window. the darkness and the thunder roll down in an instant and when the lull follow a voice from the watch tower cry who go there. 
the cavalry be very quiet but each man grip his carbine and stand beside his horse. again the voice call who go there. and in a loud key brother give the alarm. now every man in the cavalry would have die in his long boot sooner than have ask for quarter but it be a fact that the answer to the second call be a long wail of marf karo. marf karo. which mean have mercy. have mercy. it come from the climb regiment. 
the cavalry stand dumbfoundered till the big trooper have time to whisper one to another. mir khan be that thy voice. abdullah didst thou call. lieutenant halley stand beside his charger and wait. so long a no fire be go on he be content. another flash of lightning show the horse with heave flank and nod head. the men white eye ball glare beside them and the stone watch tower to the leave. this time there be no head at the window and the rude iron clamp shutter that could turn a rifle bullet be close. 
go on men say the major. get up to the top at any rate. the squadron toil forward the horse wag their tail and the men pull at the bridle the stone roll down the hillside and the spark fly. lieutenant halley declare that he never hear a squadron make so much noise in his life. they scramble up he say a though each horse have eight leg and a spare horse to follow him. even then there be no sound from the watch tower and the men stop exhaust on the ridge that overlook the pit of darkness in which the village of bersund lay. girth be loose curb chain shift and saddle adjust and the men drop down among the stone. whatever might happen now they hold the upper grind of any attack. 
the thunder cease and with it the rain and the soft thick darkness of a winter night before the dawn cover them all. except for the sound of fall water among the ravine below everything be still. they hear the shutter of the watch tower below them throw back with a clang and the voice of the watcher call oh hafiz ullah. 
the echo take up the call la la la. and an answer come from the watch tower hide round the curve of the hill what be it shahbaz khan. 
shahbaz khan reply in the high pitch voice of the mountaineer. hast thou see. 
the answer come back. yes. god deliver u from all evil spirit. 
there be a pause and then. hafiz ullah i be alone. come to me. 
shahbaz khan i be alone also. but i dare not leave my post. 
that be a lie. thou art afraid. 
a long pause follow and then. i be afraid. be silent. they be below u still. pray to god and sleep. 
the trooper listen and wonder for they could not understand what save earth and stone could lie below the watch tower. 
shahbaz khan begin to call again. they be below u. i can see them. for the pity of god come over to me hafiz ullah. my father slew ten of them. come over. 
hafiz ullah answer in a very loud voice mine be guiltless. hear ye men of the night neither my father nor my blood have any part in that sin. bear thou thine own punishment shahbaz khan. 
oh some one ought to stop those two chap crow away like cock there say the lieutenant shiver under his rock. 
he have hardly turn round to expose a new side of him to the rain before a beard long lock evil smell afghan rush up the hill and tumble into his arm. halley sit upon him and thrust a much of a sword hilt a could be spar down the man s gullet. if you cry out i kill you he say cheerfully. 
the man be beyond any expression of terror. he lay and quake gasp. when halley take the sword hilt from between his teeth he be still inarticulate but cling to halley s arm feel it from elbow to wrist. 
the rissala. the dead rissala. he gasp it be down there. 
no. the rissala the very much alive rissala. it be up here say halley unshipping his water bridle and fasten the man s hand. why be you in the tower so foolish a to let u pas. 
the valley be full of the dead say the afghan. it be good to fall into the hand of the english than the hand of the dead. they march to and fro below there. i saw them in the lightning. 
he recover his composure after a little and whisper because halley s pistol be at his stomach say. what be this. there be no war between u now and the mullah will kill me for not see you pas. 
rest easy say halley. we be come to kill the mullah if god please. his teeth have grow too long. no harm will come to thee unless the daylight show thee a a face which be desire by the gallows for crime do. but what of the dead regiment. 
i only kill within my own border say the man immensely relieve. the dead regiment be below. the men must have pass through it on their journey four hundred dead on horse stumble among their own graf among the little heap dead men all whom we slew. 
whew. say halley. that account for my curse carter and the major curse me. four hundred sabre eh. no wonder we think there be a few extra men in the troop. kurruk shah he whisper to a grizzle native officer that lay within a few foot of him hast thou hear anything of a dead rissala in these hill. 
assuredly say kurruk shah with a grim chuckle. otherwise why do i who have serve the queen for seven and twenty year and kill many hill dog shout aloud for quarter when the lightning reveal u to the watch tower. when i be a young man i saw the kill in the valley of sheor kt there at our foot and i know the tale that grow up therefrom. but how can the ghost of unbeliever prevail against u who be of the faith. strap that dog s hand a little tight sahib. an afghan be like an eel. 
but a dead rissala say halley jerk his captive s wrist. that be foolish talk kurruk shah. the dead be dead. hold still sag. the afghan wriggle. 
the dead be dead and for that reason they walk at night. what need to talk. we be men. we have our eye and ear. thou canst both see and hear them down the hillside say kurruk shah composedly. 
halley star and listen long and intently. the valley be full of stifle noise a every valley must be at night. but whether he saw or hear more than be natural halley alone know and he doe not choose to speak on the subject. 
at last and just before the dawn a green rocket shoot up from the far side of the valley of bersund at the head of the gorge to show that the goorkhas be in position. a red light from the infantry at leave and right answer it and the cavalry burn a white flare. afghan in winter be late sleeper and it be not till full day that the gulla kutta mullah s men begin to straggle from their hut rub their eye. they saw men in green and red and brown uniform lean on their arm neatly arrange all round the crater of the village of bersund in a cordon that not even a wolf could have break. they rub their eye the more when a pink face young man who be not even in the army but represent the political department trip down the hillside with two orderly rap at the door of the gulla kutta mullah s house and tell him quietly to step out and be tie up for safe transport. that same young man pass on through the hut tap here one cateran and there another lightly with his cane. and a each be point out so he be tie up star hopelessly at the crown height around where the english soldier look down with incurious eye. only the mullah try to carry it off with curse and high word till a soldier who be tie his hand say. 
none o your lip. why didn t you come out when you be order instead o keep u awake all night. you re no good than my own barrack sweeper you white eaded old polyanthus. kim up. 
half an hour late the troop have go away with the mullah and his thirteen friend. the daze villager be look ruefully at a pile of break musket and snap sword and wonder how in the world they have come so to miscalculate the forbearance of the indian government. 
it be a very neat little affair neatly carry out and the men concern be unofficially thank for their service. 
yet it seem to me that much credit be also due to another regiment whose name do not appear in brigade order and whose very existence be in danger of be forget. 
the drum of the fore and aft. 
in the army list they still stand a the fore and fit princess hohenzollern sigmaringen anspach s merther tydfilshire own royal loyal light infantry regimental district a but the army through all it barrack and canteen know them now a the fore and aft. they may in time do something that shall make their new title honourable but at present they be bitterly ashamed and the man who call them fore and aft doe so at the risk of the head which be on his shoulder. 
two word breathe into the stable of a certain cavalry regiment will bring the men out into the street with belt and mop and bad language. but a whisper of fore and aft will bring out this regiment with rifle. 
their one excuse be that they come again and do their best to finish the job in style. but for a time all their world know that they be openly beat whip dumb cow shake and afraid. the men know it. their officer know it. the horse guard know it and when the next war come the enemy will know it also. there be two or three regiment of the line that have a black mark against their name which they will then wipe out. and it will be excessively inconvenient for the troop upon whom they do their wipe. 
the courage of the british soldier be officially suppose to be above proof and a a general rule it be so. the exception be decently shovel out of sight only to be refer to in the fresh of unguarded talk that occasionally swamp a mess table at midnight. then one hear strange and horrible story of men not follow their officer of order be give by those who have no right to give them and of disgrace that but for the stand luck of the british army might have end in brilliant disaster. these be unpleasant story to listen to and the mess tell them under their breath sit by the big wood fire and the young officer bow his head and think to himself please god his men shall never behave unhandily. 
the british soldier be not altogether to be blame for occasional lapse. but this verdict he should not know. a moderately intelligent general will waste six month in master the craft of the particular war that he may be wag. a colonel may utterly misunderstand the capacity of his regiment for three month after it ha take the field and even a company commander may err and be deceive a to the temper and temperament of his own handful. wherefore the soldier and the soldier of to day more particularly should not be blame for fa ling back. he should be shoot or hang afterwards to encourage the others. but he should not be vilify in newspaper for that be want of tact and waste of space. 
he ha let u say be in the service of the empress for perhaps four year. he will leave in another two year. he ha no inherit moral and four year be not sufficient to drive toughness into his fibre or to teach him how holy a thing be his regiment. he want to drink he want to enjoy himself in india he want to save money and he doe not in the least like get hurt. he ha receive just sufficient education to make him understand half the purport of the order he receive and to speculate on the nature of clean incise and shatter wound. thus if he be tell to deploy under fire preparatory to an attack he know that he run a very great risk of be kill while he be deploy and suspect that he be be throw away to gain ten minute time. he may either deploy with desperate swiftness or he may shuffle or bunch or break accord to the discipline under which he ha lie for four year. 
arm with imperfect knowledge curse with the rudiment of an imagination hamper by the intense selfishness of the low class and unsupported by any regimental association this young man be suddenly introduce to an enemy who in eastern land be always ugly generally tall and hairy and frequently noisy. if he look to the right and the leave and see old soldier men of twelve year service who he know know what they be about take a charge rush or demonstration without embarrassment he be console and apply his shoulder to the butt of his rifle with a stout heart. his peace be the great if he hear a senior who ha teach him his soldier and break his head on occasion whisper. they ll shout and carry on like this for five minute. then they ll rush in and then we ve get em by the short hair. 
but on the other hand if he see only men of his own term of service turn white and play with their trigger and say. what the hell s up now. while the company commander be sweat into their sword hilt and shout. front rank fix bayonet. steady there steady. sight for three hundred no for five. lie down all. steady. front rank kneel. and so forth he become unhappy and grow acutely miserable when he hear a comrade turn over with the rattle of fire iron fall into the fender and the grunt of a pole ax ox. if he can be move about a little and allow to watch the effect of his own fire on the enemy he feel merry and may be then work up to the blind passion of fight which be contrary to general belief control by a chilly devil and shake men like ague. if he be not move about and begin to feel cold at the pit of the stomach and in that crisis be badly maul and hear order that be never give he will break and he will break badly and of all thing under the light of the sun there be nothing more terrible than a break british regiment. when the bad come to the bad and the panic be really epidemic the men must be e en let go and the company commander have good escape to the enemy and stay there for safety s sake. if they can be make to come again they be not pleasant men to meet. because they will not break twice. 
about thirty year from this date when we have succeed in half educate everything that wear trouser our army will be a beautifully unreliable machine. it will know too much and it will do too little. late still when all men be at the mental level of the officer of to day it will sweep the earth. speak roughly you must employ either blackguard or gentleman or best of all blackguard command by gentleman to do butch s work with efficiency and despatch. the ideal soldier should of course think for himself the pocket book say so. unfortunately to attain this virtue he ha to pas through the phase of think of himself and that be misdirect genius. a blackguard may be slow to think for himself but he be genuinely anxious to kill and a little punishment teach him how to guard his own skin and perforate another s. a powerfully prayerful highland regiment officer by rank presbyterian be perhaps one degree more terrible in action than a hard bite thousand of irresponsible irish ruffian lead by most improper young unbeliever. but these thing prove the rule which be that the midway men be not to be trust alone. they have idea about the value of life and an upbringing that ha not teach them to go on and take the chance. they be carefully unprovided with a back of comrade who have be shoot over and until that back be re introduce a a great many regimental commander intend it shall be they be more liable to disgrace themselves than the size of the empire or the dignity of the army allow. their officer be a good a good can be because their train begin early and god ha arrange that a clean run youth of the british middle class shall in the matter of backbone brain and bowel surpass all other youth. for this reason a child of eighteen will stand up do nothing with a tin sword in his hand and joy in his heart until he be drop. if he dy he dy like a gentleman. if he life he write home that he ha be pot snip chip or cut over and sit down to besiege government for a wind gratuity until the next little war break out when he perjure himself before a medical board blarney his colonel burn incense round his adjutant and be allow to go to the front once more. 
which homily bring me directly to a brace of the most finish little fiend that ever bang drum or tootle fife in the band of a british regiment. they end their sinful career by open and flagrant mutiny and be shoot for it. their name be jakin and lew piggy lew and they be bold bad drummer boy both of them frequently birch by the drum major of the fore and aft. jakin be a stunt child of fourteen and lew be about the same age. when not look after they smoke and drink. they swear habitually after the manner of the barrack room which be cold swear and come from between clench teeth and they fight religiously once a week. jakin have spring from some london gutter and may or may not have pass through dr. barnardo s hand ere he arrive at the dignity of drummer boy. lew could remember nothing except the regiment and the delight of listen to the band from his early year. he hide somewhere in his grimy little soul a genuine love for music and be most mistakenly furnish with the head of a cherub. insomuch that beautiful lady who watch the regiment in church be wont to speak of him a a darling. they never hear his vitriolic comment on their manner and moral a he walk back to barrack with the band and mature fresh cause of offence against jakin. 
the other drummer boy hat both lad on account of their illogical conduct. jakin might be pound lew or lew might be rub jakin s head in the dirt but any attempt at aggression on the part of an outsider be meet by the combine force of lew and jakin. and the consequence be painful. the boy be the ishmael of the corp but wealthy ishmael for they sell battle in alternate week for the sport of the barrack when they be not pit against other boy. and thus amass money. 
on this particular day there be dissension in the camp. they have just be convict afresh of smoke which be bad for little boy who use plug tobacco and lew s contention be that jakin have stink so orrid bad from keepin the pipe in pocket that he and he alone be responsible for the birch they be both tingle under. 
i tell you i id the pipe back o barrack say jakin pacifically. 
you re a bloomin liar say lew without heat. 
you re a bloomin little barstard say jakin strong in the knowledge that his own ancestry be unknown. 
now there be one word in the extend vocabulary of barrack room abuse that cannot pas without comment. you may call a man a thief and risk nothing. you may even call him a coward without find more than a boot whiz past your ear but you must not call a man a bastard unless you be prepare to prove it on his front teeth. 
you might ha kep that till i wasn t so sore say lew sorrowfully dodge round jakin s guard. 
i ll make you sore say jakin genially and get home on lew s alabaster forehead. all would have go well and this story a the book say would never have be write have not his evil fate prompt the bazar sergeant s son a long employless man of five and twenty to put in an appearance after the first round. he be eternally in need of money and know that the boy have silver. 
fight again say he. i ll report you to my father and he ll report you to the colour sergeant. 
what s that to you. say jakin with an unpleasant dilation of the nostril. 
oh. nothing to me. you ll get into trouble and you ve be up too often to afford that. 
what the hell do you know about what we ve do. ask lew the seraph. you aren t in the army you lousy cadge civilian. 
he close in on the man s leave flank. 
jes cause you find two gentleman settlin their diff rences with their fistes you stick in your ugly nose where you aren t want. run ome to your arf caste slut of a ma or we ll give you what for say jakin. 
the man attempt reprisal by knock the boy head together. the scheme would have succeed have not jakin punch him vehemently in the stomach or have lew refrain from kick his shin. they fight together bleed and breathless for half an hour and after heavy punishment triumphantly pull down their opponent a terrier pull down a jackal. 
now gasp jakin i ll give you what for. he proceed to pound the man s feature while lew stamp on the outlying portion of his anatomy. chivalry be not a strong point in the composition of the average drummer boy. he fight a do his better to make his mark. 
ghastly be the ruin that escape and awful be the wrath of the bazar sergeant. awful too be the scene in orderly room when the two reprobate appear to answer the charge of half murder a civilian. the bazar sergeant thirst for a criminal action and his son lie. the boy stand to attention while the black cloud of evidence accumulate. 
you little devil be more trouble than the rest of the regiment put together say the colonel angrily. one might a well admonish thistledown and i can t well put you in cell or under stoppage. you must be birch again. 
beg y pardon sir. can t we say nothin in our own defence sir. shrill jakin. 
hey. what. be you go to argue with me. say the colonel. 
no sir say lew. but if a man come to you sir and say he be go to report you sir for aving a bite of a turn up with a friend sir an want to get money out o you sir. 
the orderly room explode in a roar of laughter. well. say the colonel. 
that be what that measly jarnwar there do sir and e d a do it sir if we adn t prevent im. we didn t it im much sir. e adn t no manner o right to interfere with u sir. i don t mind bein birch by the drum major sir nor yet report by any corp ral but i m but i don t think it s fair sir for a civilian to come an talk over a man in the army. 
a second shout of laughter shake the orderly room but the colonel be grave. 
what sort of character have these boy. he ask of the regimental sergeant major. 
accordin to the bandmaster sir return that revere official the only soul in the regiment whom the boy fear they do everything but lie sir. 
be it like we d go for that man for fun sir. say lew point to the plaintiff. 
oh admonish admonish. say the colonel testily and when the boy have go he read the bazar sergeant s son a lecture on the sin of unprofitable meddle and give order that the bandmaster should keep the drum in good discipline. 
if either of you come to practice again with so much a a scratch on your two ugly little face thunder the bandmaster i ll tell the drum major to take the skin off your back. understand that you young devil. 
then he repent of his speech for just the length of time that lew look like a seraph in red worst embellishment take the place of one of the trumpet in hospital and render the echo of a battle piece. lew certainly be a musician and have often in his more exalt moment express a yearn to master every instrument of the band. 
there s nothing to prevent your become a bandmaster lew say the bandmaster who have compose waltz of his own and work day and night in the interest of the band. 
what do he say. demand jakin after practice. 
say i might be a bloomin bandmaster an be ask in to ave a glass o sherry wine on mess night. 
ho. say you might be a bloomin noncombatant do e. that s just about wot e would say. when i ve put in my boy s service it s a bloomin shame that doesn t count for pension i ll take on a a privit. then i ll be a lance in a year knowin what i know about the in an out o thing. in three year i ll be a bloomin sergeant. i win t marry then not i. i ll old on and learn the orf cer way an apply for exchange into a reg ment that doesn t know all about me. then i ll be a bloomin orf cer. then i ll ask you to ave a glass o sherry wine mister lew an you ll bloomin well ave to stay in the hanty room while the mess sergeant bring it to your dirty ands. s pose i m go to be a bandmaster. not i quite. i ll be a orf cer too. there s nothin like takin to a thing an stickin to it the schoolmaster say. the reg ment don t go ome for another seven year. i ll be a lance then or near to. 
thus the boy discuss their future and conduct themselves piously for a week. that be to say lew start a flirtation with the colour sergeant s daughter age thirteen not a he explain to jakin with any intention o matrimony but by way o keep in my and in. and the black haired cris delighan enjoy that flirtation more than previous one and the other drummer boy rag furiously together and jakin preach sermon on the danger of bein tangle along o petticoat. 
but neither love nor virtue would have hold lew long in the path of propriety have not the rumour go abroad that the regiment be to be send on active service to take part in a war which for the sake of brevity we will call the war of the lose tribe. 
the barrack have the rumour almost before the mess room and of all the nine hundred men in barrack not ten have see a shoot fire in anger. the colonel have twenty year ago assist at a frontier expedition. one of the major have see service at the cape. a confirm deserter in e company have help to clear street in ireland. but that be all. the regiment have be put by for many year. the overwhelm mass of it rank and file have from three to four year service. the non commission officer be under thirty year old. and men and sergeant alike have forget to speak of the story write in brief upon the colour the new colour that have be formally bless by an archbishop in england ere the regiment come away. they want to go to the front they be enthusiastically anxious to go but they have no knowledge of what war mean and there be none to tell them. they be an educate regiment the percentage of school certificate in their rank be high and most of the men could do more than read and write. they have be recruit in loyal observance of the territorial idea. but they themselves have no notion of that idea. they be make up of draft from an over populate manufacture district. the system have put flesh and muscle upon their small bone but it could not put heart into the son of those who for generation have do overmuch work for overscanty pay have sweat in dry room stoop over loom cough among white lead and shiver on lime barge. the men have find food and rest in the army and now they be go to fight nigger people who run away if you shake a stick at them. wherefore they cheer lustily when the rumour run and the shrewd clerkly non commission officer speculate on the chance of batta and of save their pay. at headquarter men say. the fore and fit have never be under fire within the last generation. let u therefore break them in easily by set them to guard line of communication. and this would have be do but for the fact that british regiment be want badly want at the front and there be doubtful native regiment that could fill the minor duty. brigade em with two strong regiment say headquarter. they may be knock about a bite but they ll learn their business before they come through. nothing like a night alarm and a little cut up of straggler to make a regiment smart in the field. wait till they ve have half a dozen sentry throat cut. 
the colonel write with delight that the temper of his men be excellent that the regiment be all that could be wish and a sound a a bell. the major smile with a sober joy and the subaltern waltz in pair down the mess room after dinner and nearly shoot themselves at revolver practice. but there be consternation in the heart of jakin and lew. what be to be do with the drum. would the band go to the front. how many of the drum would accompany the regiment. 
they take counsel together sit in a tree and smoke. 
it s more than a bloomin toss up they ll leave u be ind at the depot with the woman. you ll like that say jakin sarcastically. 
cause o cris y mean. wot s a woman or a ole bloomin depot o woman longside o the chanst of field service. you know i m a keen on goin a you say lew. 
wish i be a bloomin bugler say jakin sadly. they ll take tom kidd along that i can plaster a wall with an like a not they win t take u. 
then let s go an make tom kidd so bloomin sick e can t bugle no more. you old be ands an i ll kick him say lew wriggle on the branch. 
that ain t no good neither. we ain t the sort o character to presoom on our rep tations they re bad. if they have the band at the depot we don t go and no error there. if they take the band we may get cast for medical unfitness. be you medical fit piggy. say jakin dig lew in the rib with force. 
yus say lew with an oath. the doctor say your eart s weak through smokin on an empty stummick. throw a chest an i ll try yer. 
jakin throw out his chest which lew smite with all his might. jakin turn very pale gasp crow screw up his eye and say that s all right. 
you ll do say lew. i ve eard o men die when you it em fair on the breastbone. 
don t bring u no near goin though say jakin. do you know where we re order. 
gawd know an e win t split on a pal. somewhere up to the front to kill paythans hairy big beggar that turn you inside out if they get old o you. they say their woman be good look too. 
any loot. ask the abandon jakin. 
not a bloomin anna they say unless you dig up the grind an see what the nigger ave id. they re a poor lot. jakin stand upright on the branch and gaze across the plain. 
lew say he there s the colonel come. colonel s a good old beggar. let s go an talk to im. 
lew nearly fell out of the tree at the audacity of the suggestion. like jakin he fear not god neither regard he man but there be limit even to the audacity of a drummer boy and to speak to a colonel be. 
but jakin have slide down the trunk and double in the direction of the colonel. that officer be walk wrap in think and vision of a c. b. yes even a k. c. b. for have he not at command one of the best regiment of the line the fore and fit. and he be aware of two small boy charge down upon him. once before it have be solemnly report to him that the drum be in a state of mutiny jakin and lew be the ringleader. this look like an organise conspiracy. the boy halt at twenty yard walk to the regulation four pace and salute together each a well set up a a ramrod and little tall. 
the colonel be in a genial mood. the boy appear very forlorn and unprotected on the desolate plain and one of them be handsome. 
well. say the colonel recognise them. be you go to pull me down in the open. i m sure i never interfere with you even though he sniff suspiciously you have be smoke. 
it be time to strike while the iron be hot. their heart beat tumultuously. 
beg y pardon sir begin jakin. the reg ment s order on active service sir. 
so i believe say the colonel courteously. 
be the band goin sir. say both together. then without pause we re goin sir ain t we. 
you. say the colonel step back the more fully to take in the two small figure. you. you d die in the first march. 
no we wouldn t sir. we can march with the reg ment anywheres p rade an anywhere else say jakin. 
if tom kidd go e ll shut up like a clasp knife say lew. tom a very close vein in both be leg sir. 
very how much. 
very close vein sir. that s why they swell after long p rade sir. if e can go we can go sir. 
again the colonel look at them long and intently. 
yes the band be go he say a gravely a though he have be address a brother officer. have you any parent either of you two. 
no sir rejoicingly from lew and jakin. we re both orphan sir. there s no one to be consider of on our account sir. 
you poor little sprat and you want to go up to the front with the regiment do you. why. 
i ve wear the queen s uniform for two year say jakin. it s very ard sir that a man don t get no recompense for doin of be dooty sir. 
an an if i don t go sir interrupt lew the bandmaster e say e ll catch an make a bloo a bless musician o me sir. before i ve see any service sir. 
the colonel make no answer for a long time. then he say quietly. if you re pass by the doctor i dare say you can go. i shouldn t smoke if i be you. 
the boy salute and disappear. the colonel walk home and tell the story to his wife who nearly cry over it. the colonel be well please. if that be the temper of the child what would not the men do. 
jakin and lew enter the boy barrack room with great stateliness and refuse to hold any conversation with their comrade for at least ten minute. then burst with pride jakin drawl. i ve bin intervooin the colonel. good old beggar be the colonel. say i to im colonel say i let me go to the front along o the reg ment. to the front you shall go say e an i only wish there be more like you among the dirty little devil that bang the bloomin drum. kidd if you throw your courtrements at me for tellin you the truth to your own advantage your leg ll swell. 
none the le there be a battle royal in the barrack room for the boy be consume with envy and hate and neither jakin nor lew behave in conciliatory wise. 
i m goin out to say adoo to my girl say lew to cap the climax. don t none o you touch my kit because it s want for active service. me bein specially invite to go by the colonel. 
he stroll forth and whistle in the clump of tree at the back of the marry quarter till cris come to him and the preliminary kiss be give and take lew begin to explain the situation. 
i m goin to the front with the reg ment he say valiantly. 
piggy you re a little liar say cris but her heart misgive her for lew be not in the habit of lie. 
liar yourself cris say lew slip an arm round her. i m goin. when the reg ment march out you ll see me with em all galliant and gay. give u another kiss cris on the strength of it. 
if you d on y a stay at the depot where you ought to ha bin you could get a many of em a a you dam please whimper cris put up her mouth. 
it s ard cris. i grant you it s ard but what s a man to do. if i d a stay at the depot you wouldn t think anything of me. 
like a not but i d ave you with me piggy. an all the thinkin in the world isn t like kissin. 
an all the kissin in the world isn t like avin a medal to wear on the front o your coat. 
you win t get no medal. 
oh yus i shall though. me an jakin be the only act drummer that ll be take along. all the rest be full men an we ll get our medal with them. 
they might ha take anybody but you piggy. you ll get kill you re so venturesome. stay with me piggy darlin down at the depot an i ll love you true for ever. 
ain t you goin to do that now cris. you say you be. 
course i be but th other s more comfortable. wait till you ve grow a bite piggy. you aren t no tall than me now. 
i ve bin in the army for two year an i m not goin to get out of a chanst o seein service an don t you try to make me do so. i ll come back cris an when i take on a a man i ll marry you marry you when i m a lance. 
promise piggy. 
lew reflect on the future a arrange by jakin a short time previously but cris s mouth be very near to his own. 
i promise s elp me gawd. say he. 
cris slide an arm round his neck. 
i win t old you back no more piggy. go away an get your medal an i ll make you a new button bag a nice a i know how she whisper. 
put some o your air into it cris an i ll keep it in my pocket so long s i m alive. 
then cris weep anew and the interview end. public feel among the drummer boy rise to fever pitch and the life of jakin and lew become unenviable. not only have they be permit to enlist two year before the regulation boy s age fourteen but by virtue it seem of their extreme youth they be allow to go to the front which thing have not happen to act drummer within the knowledge of boy. the band which be to accompany the regiment have be cut down to the regulation twenty men the surplus return to the rank. jakin and lew be attach to the band a supernumerary though they would much have prefer be company bugler. 
don t matter much say jakin after the medical inspection. be thankful that we re low to go at all. the doctor e say that if we could stand what we take from the bazar sergeant s son we d stand pretty nigh anything. 
which we will say lew look tenderly at the rag and ill make housewife that cris have give him with a lock of her hair work into a sprawl l upon the cover. 
it be the best i could she sob. i wouldn t let mother nor the sergeant s tailor elp me. keep it always piggy an remember i love you true. 
they march to the railway station nine hundred and sixty strong and every soul in cantonment turn out to see them go. the drummer gnash their teeth at jakin and lew march with the band the marry woman weep upon the platform and the regiment cheer it noble self black in the face. 
a nice level lot say the colonel to the second in command a they watch the first four company entrain. 
fit to do anything say the second in command enthusiastically. but it seem to me they re a think too young and tender for the work in hand. it s bitter cold up at the front now. 
they re sound enough say the colonel. we must take our chance of sick casualty. 
so they go northward ever northward past drove and drove of camel army of camp follower and legion of lade mule the throng thicken day by day till with a shriek the train pull up at a hopelessly congest junction where six line of temporary track accommodate six forty waggon train. where whistle blow babu sweat and commissariat officer swear from dawn till far into the night amid the wind drive chaff of the fodder bale and the low of a thousand steer. 
hurry up you re badly want at the front be the message that greet the fore and aft and the occupant of the red cross carriage tell the same tale. 
tisn t so much the bloomin fightin gasp a headbound trooper of hussar to a knot of admire fore and afts. tisn t so much the bloomin fightin though there s enough o that. it s the bloomin food an the bloomin climate. frost all night cept when it hail and b iling sun all day and the water stink fit to knock you down. i get my ead chip like a egg. i ve get pneumonia too an my gut be all out o order. tain t no bloomin picnic in those part i can tell you. 
wot be the nigger like. demand a private. 
there s some prisoner in that train yonder. go an look at em. they re the aristocracy o the country. the common folk be a dash sight ugly. if you want to know what they fight with reach under my seat an pull out the long knife that s there. 
they drag out and behold for the first time the grim bone handle triangular afghan knife. it be almost a long a lew. 
that s the thing to j int ye say the trooper feebly. it can take off a man s arm at the shoulder a easy a slice butter. i halve the beggar that use that un but there s more of his like up above. they don t understand thrustin but they re devil to slice. 
the men stroll across the track to inspect the afghan prisoner. they be unlike any nigger that the fore and aft have ever meet these huge black haired scowl son of the beni israel. a the men star the afghan spat freely and mutter one to another with lower eye. 
my eye. wot awful swine. say jakin who be in the rear of the procession. say ole man how you get puckrowed eh. kiswasti you wasn t hang for your ugly face hey. 
the tall of the company turn his leg iron clank at the movement and star at the boy. see. he cry to his fellow in pushto. they send child against u. what a people and what fool. 
hya. say jakin nod his head cheerily. you go down country. khana get peenikapanee get live like a bloomin raja ke marfik. that s a good bandobust than baynit get it in your innards. good bye ole man. take care o your beautiful figure ead an try to look kushy. 
the men laugh and fell in for their first march when they begin to realise that a soldier s life be not all beer and skittle. they be much impress with the size and bestial ferocity of the nigger whom they have now learn to call paythans and more with the exceed discomfort of their own surround. twenty old soldier in the corp would have teach them how to make themselves moderately snug at night but they have no old soldier and a the troop on the line of march say they live like pig. they learn the heart break cussedness of camp kitchen and camel and the depravity of an e. p. tent and a wither wring mule. they study animalculae in water and develop a few case of dysentery in their study. 
at the end of their third march they be disagreeably surprise by the arrival in their camp of a hammer iron slug which fire from a steady rest at seven hundred yard flick out the brain of a private seat by the fire. this rob them of their peace for a night and be the begin of a long range fire carefully calculate to that end. in the daytime they saw nothing except an unpleasant puff of smoke from a crag above the line of march. at night there be distant spurt of flame and occasional casualty which set the whole camp blaze into the gloom and occasionally into opposite tent. then they swear vehemently and vow that this be magnificent but not war. 
indeed it be not. the regiment could not halt for reprisal against the sharpshooter of the country side. it duty be to go forward and make connectioon with the scotch and goorkha troop with which it be brigade. the afghan know this and know too after their first tentative shot that they be deal with a raw regiment thereafter they devote themselves to the task of keep the fore and aft on the strain. not for anything would they have take equal liberty with a season corp with the wicked little goorkhas whose delight it be to lie out in the open on a dark night and stalk their stalker with the terrible big men dress in woman s clothe who could be hear pray to their god in the night watch and whose peace of mind no amount of snip could shake or with those vile sikh who march so ostentatiously unprepared and who deal out such grim reward to those who try to profit by that unpreparedness. this white regiment be different quite different. it sleep like a hog and like a hog charge in every direction when it be rouse. it sentry walk with a footfall that could be hear for a quarter of a mile. would fire at anything that move even a drive donkey and when they have once fire could be scientifically rush and lay out a horror and an offence against the morning sun. then there be camp follower who straggle and could be cut up without fear. their shriek would disturb the white boy and the loss of their service would inconvenience them sorely. 
thus at every march the hide enemy become bold and the regiment writhe and twist under attack it could not avenge. the crown triumph be a sudden night rush end in the cut of many tent rope the collapse of the sodden canvas and a glorious knife of the men who struggle and kick below. it be a great deed neatly carry out and it shake the already shake nerve of the fore and aft. all the courage that they have be require to exercise up to this point be the two o clock in the morning courage. and so far they have only succeed in shoot their comrade and lose their sleep. 
sullen discontent cold savage sick with their uniform dull and unclean the fore and aft join their brigade. 
i hear you have a tough time of it come up say the brigadier. but when he saw the hospital sheet his face fell. 
this be bad say he to himself. they re a rotten a sheep. and aloud to the colonel i m afraid we can t spare you just yet. we want all we have else i should have give you ten day to recover in. 
the colonel wince. on my honour sir he return there be not the least necessity to think of spar u. my men have be rather maul and upset without a fair return. they only want to go in somewhere where they can see what s before them. 
can t say i think much of the fore and fit say the brigadier in confidence to his brigade major. they ve lose all their soldier and by the trim of them might have march through the country from the other side. a more fag out set of men i never put eye on. 
oh they ll improve a the work go on. the parade gloss ha be rub off a little but they ll put on field polish before long say the brigade major. they ve be maul and they don t quite understand it. 
they do not. all the hit be on one side and it be cruelly hard hit with accessory that make them sick. there be also the real sickness that lay hold of a strong man and drag him howl to the grave. bad of all their officer know just a little of the country a the men themselves and look a if they do. the fore and aft be in a thoroughly unsatisfactory condition but they believe that all would be well if they could once get a fair go in at the enemy. pot shot up and down the valley be unsatisfactory and the bayonet never seem to get a chance. perhaps it be a well for a long limbed afghan with a knife have a reach of eight foot and could carry away lead that would disable three englishman. 
the fore and aft would like some rifle practice at the enemy all seven hundred rifle blaze together. that wish show the mood of the men. 
the goorkhas walk into their camp and in break barrack room english strive to fraternise with them. offer them pipe of tobacco and stand them treat at the canteen. but the fore and aft not know much of the nature of the goorkhas treat them a they would treat any other nigger and the little men in green trot back to their firm friend the highlander and with many grin confide to them. that dam white regiment no dam use. sulky ugh. dirty ugh. hya any tot for johnny. whereat the highlander smite the goorkhas a to the head and tell them not to vilify a british regiment and the goorkhas grin cavernously for the highlander be their elder brother and entitle to the privilege of kinship. the common soldier who touch a goorkha be more than likely to have his head slice open. 
three day late the brigadier arrange a battle accord to the rule of war and the peculiarity of the afghan temperament. the enemy be mass in inconvenient strength among the hill and the move of many green standard warn him that the tribe be up in aid of the afghan regular troop. a squadron and a half of bengal lancer represent the available cavalry and two screw gun borrow from a column thirty mile away the artillery at the general s disposal. 
if they stand a i ve a very strong notion that they will i fancy we shall see an infantry fight that will be worth watch say the brigadier. we ll do it in style. each regiment shall be play into action by it band and we ll hold the cavalry in reserve. 
for all the reserve. somebody ask. 
for all the reserve. because we re go to crumple them up say the brigadier who be an extraordinary brigadier and do not believe in the value of a reserve when deal with asiatic. indeed when you come to think of it have the british army consistently wait for reserve in all it little affair the boundary of our empire would have stop at brighton beach. 
the battle be to be a glorious battle. 
the three regiment debouch from three separate gorge after duly crown the height above be to converge from the centre leave and right upon what we will call the afghan army then station towards the low extremity of a flat bottom valley. thus it will be see that three side of the valley practically belong to the english while the fourth be strictly afghan property. in the event of defeat the afghan have the rocky hill to fly to where the fire from the guerrilla tribe in aid would cover their retreat. in the event of victory these same tribe would rush down and lend their weight to the rout of the british. 
the screw gun be to shell the head of each afghan rush that be make in close formation and the cavalry hold in reserve in the right valley be to gently stimulate the break up which would follow on the combine attack. the brigadier sit upon a rock overlook the valley would watch the battle unroll at his foot. the fore and aft would debouch from the central gorge the goorkhas from the leave and the highlander from the right for the reason that the leave flank of the enemy seem a though it require the most hammer. it be not every day that an afghan force would take grind in the open and the brigadier be resolve to make the most of it. 
if we only have a few more men he say plaintively we could surround the creature and crumple em up thoroughly. a it be i m afraid we can only cut them up a they run. it s a great pity. 
the fore and aft have enjoy unbroken peace for five day and be begin in spite of dysentery to recover their nerve. but they be not happy for they do not know the work in hand and have they know would not have know how to do it. throughout those five day in which old soldier might have teach them the craft of the game they discuss together their misadventure in the past how such an one be alive at dawn and dead ere the dusk and with what shriek and struggle such another have give up his soul under the afghan knife. death be a new and horrible thing to the son of mechanic who be use to die decently of zymotic disease. and their careful conservation in barrack have do nothing to make them look upon it with le dread. 
very early in the dawn the bugle begin to blow and the fore and aft fill with a misguide enthusiasm turn out without wait for a cup of coffee and a biscuit. and be reward by be keep under arm in the cold while the other regiment leisurely prepare for the fray. all the world know that it be ill take the breeks off a highland. it be much ill to try to make him stir unless he be convince of the necessity for haste. the fore and aft wait lean upon their rifle and listen to the protest of their empty stomach. the colonel do his best to remedy the default of line a soon a it be bear in upon him that the affair would not begin at once and so well do he succeed that the coffee be just ready when the men move off their band lead. even then there have be a mistake in time and the fore and aft come out into the valley ten minute before the proper hour. their band wheel to the right after reach the open and retire behind a little rocky knoll still play while the regiment go past. 
it be not a pleasant sight that open on the uninstructed view for the low end of the valley appear to be fill by an army in position real and actual regiment attire in red coat and of this there be no doubt fire martini henry bullet which cut up the grind a hundred yard in front of the lead company. over that pock mark grind the regiment have to pas and it open the ball with a general and profound courtesy to the pip picket. duck in perfect time a though it have be braze on a rod. be half capable of think for itself it fire a volley by the simple process of pitch it rifle into it shoulder and pull the trigger. the bullet may have account for some of the watcher on the hill side but they certainly do not affect the mass of enemy in front while the noise of the rifle drown any order that might have be give. 
good god. say the brigadier sit on the rock high above all. that regiment ha spoil the whole show. hurry up the others and let the screw gun get off. 
but the screw gun in work round the height have stumble upon a wasp s nest of a small mud fort which they incontinently shell at eight hundred yard to the huge discomfort of the occupant who be unaccustomed to weapon of such devilish precision. 
the fore and aft continue to go forward but with shorten stride. where be the other regiment and why do these nigger use martini. they take open order instinctively lie down and fire at random rush a few pace forward and lie down again accord to the regulation. once in this formation each man felt himself desperately alone and edge in towards his fellow for comfort s sake. 
then the crack of his neighbor s rifle at his ear lead him to fire a rapidly a he could again for the sake of the comfort of the noise. the reward be not long delay. five volley plunge the file in bank smoke impenetrable to the eye and the bullet begin to take grind twenty or thirty yard in front of the firers a the weight of the bayonet drag down and to the right arm weary with hold the kick of the leap martini. the company commander peer helplessly through the smoke the more nervous mechanically try to fan it away with their helmet. 
high and to the leave. bawl a captain till he be hoarse. no good. cease fire and let it drift away a bite. 
three and four time the bugle shriek the order and when it be obey the fore and aft look that their foe should be lie before them in mow swath of men. a light wind drive the smoke to leeward and show the enemy still in position and apparently unaffected. a quarter of a ton of lead have be bury a furlong in front of them a the rag earth attest. 
that be not demoralize to the afghan who have not european nerve. they be wait for the mad riot to die down and be fire quietly into the heart of the smoke. a private of the fore and aft spin up his company shriek with agony another be kick the earth and gasp and a third rip through the low intestine by a jag bullet be call aloud on his comrade to put him out of his pain. these be the casualty and they be not soothe to hear or see. the smoke clear to a dull haze. 
then the foe begin to shout with a great shout and a mass a black mass detach itself from the main body and roll over the grind at horrid speed. it be compose of perhaps three hundred men who would shout and fire and slash if the rush of their fifty comrade who be determine to die carry home. the fifty be ghazis half madden with drug and wholly mad with religious fanaticism. when they rush the british fire cease and in the lull the order be give to close rank and meet them with the bayonet. 
any one who know the business could have tell the fore and aft that the only way of deal with a ghazi rush be by volley at long range. because a man who mean to die who desire to die who will gain heaven by die must in nine case out of ten kill a man who ha a linger prejudice in favour of life. where they should have close and go forward the fore and aft open out and skirmish and where they should have open out and fire they close and wait. 
a man drag from his blanket half awake and unfed be never in a pleasant frame of mind. nor doe his happiness increase when he watch the white of the eye of three hundred six foot fiend upon whose beard the foam be lie upon whose tongue be a roar of wrath and in whose hand be yard long knife. 
the fore and aft hear the goorkha bugle bring that regiment forward at the double while the neigh of the highland pipe come from the leave. they strive to stay where they be though the bayonet waver down the line like the oar of a rag boat. then they felt body to body the amaze physical strength of their foe. a shriek of pain end the rush and the knife fell amid scene not to be tell. the men club together and smite blindly a often a not at their own fellow. their front crumple like paper and the fifty ghazis pass on. their backer now drink with success fight a madly a they. 
then the rear rank be bid to close up and the subaltern dash into the stew alone. for the rear rank have hear the clamour in front the yell and the howl of pain and have see the dark stale blood that make afraid. they be not go to stay. it be the rush of the camp over again. let their officer go to hell if they choose. they would get away from the knife. 
come on. shriek the subaltern and their men curse them draw back each close in to his neighbour and wheel round. 
charteris and devlin subaltern of the last company face their death alone in the belief that their men would follow. 
you ve kill me you coward sob devlin and drop cut from the shoulder strap to the centre of the chest. and a fresh detachment of his men retreat always retreat trample him under foot a they make for the pas whence they have emerge. 
i kiss her in the kitchen and i kiss her in the hall child un child un follow me. oh golly say the cook be he gwine to kiss u all. halla halla halla hallelujah. 
the goorkhas be pour through the leave gorge and over the height at the double to the invitation of their regimental quick step. the black rock be crown with dark green spider a the bugle give tongue jubilantly. 
in the morning. in the morning by the bright light. when gabriel blow his trumpet in the morning. 
the goorkha rear company trip and blunder over loose stone. the front file halt for a moment to take stock of the valley and to settle stray boot lace. then a happy little sigh of contentment sough down the rank and it be a though the land smile for behold there below be the enemy and it be to meet them that the goorkhas have double so hastily. there be much enemy. there would be amusement. the little men hitch their kukris well to hand and gap expectantly at their officer a terrier grin ere the stone be cast for them to fetch. the goorkhas grind slop downward to the valley and they enjoy a fair view of the proceeding. they sit upon the boulder to watch for their officer be not go to waste their wind in assist to repulse a ghazi rush more than half a mile away. let the white men look to their own front. 
hi. yi. say the subadar major who be sweat profusely. dam fool yonder stand close order. this be no time for close order it be the time for volley. ugh. 
horrify amuse and indignant the goorkhas behold the retirement of the fore and aft with a run chorus of oath and commentary. 
they run. the white men run. colonel sahib may we also do a little run. murmur runbir thappa the senior jemadar. 
but the colonel would have none of it. let the beggar be cut up a little say he wrathfully. serf em right. they ll be prod into face round in a minute. he look through his field glass and catch the glint of an officer s sword. 
beat em with the flat damn conscript. how the ghazis be walk into them. say he. 
the fore and aft head back bore with them their officer. the narrowness of the pas force the mob into solid formation and the rear rank deliver some sort of a waver volley. the ghazis draw off for they do not know what reserve the gorge might hide. moreover it be never wise to chase white men too far. they return a wolf return to cover satisfy with the slaughter that they have do and only stop to slash at the wound on the grind. a quarter of a mile have the fore and aft retreat and now jam in the pas be quiver with pain shake and demoralise with fear while the officer madden beyond control smite the men with the hilt and the flat of their sword. 
get back. get back you coward you woman. right about face column of company form you hound. shout the colonel and the subaltern swear aloud. but the regiment want to go to go anywhere out of the range of those merciless knife. it sway to and fro irresolutely with shout and outcry while from the right the goorkhas drop volley after volley of cripple stopper snide bullet at long range into the mob of the ghazis return to their own troop. 
the fore and aft band though protect from direct fire by the rocky knoll under which it have sit down flee at the first rush. jakin and lew would have flee also but their short leg leave them fifty yard in the rear and by the time the band have mix with the regiment they be painfully aware that they would have to close in alone and unsupported. 
get back to that rock gasp jakin. they win t see u there. 
and they return to the scatter instrument of the band their heart nearly burst their rib. 
here s a nice show for u say jakin throw himself full length on the grind. a bloomin fine show for british infantry. oh the devil. they ve go and leave u alone here. wot ll we do. 
lew take possession of a cast off water bottle which naturally be full of canteen rum and drink till he cough again. 
drink say he shortly. they ll come back in a minute or two you see. 
jakin drink but there be no sign of the regiment s return. they could hear a dull clamour from the head of the valley of retreat and saw the ghazis slink back quicken their pace a the goorkhas fire at them. 
we re all that s leave of the band an we ll be cut up a sure a death say jakin. 
i ll die game then say lew thickly fumble with his tiny drummer s sword. the drink be work on his brain a it be on jakin s. 
old on. i know something good than fightin say jakin sting by the splendour of a sudden think due chiefly to rum. tip our bloomin coward yonder the word to come back. the paythan beggar be well away. come on lew. we win t get hurt. take the fife an give me the drum. the old step for all your bloomin gut be worth. there s a few of our men come back now. stand up ye drunken little defaulter. by your right quick march. 
he slip the drum sling over his shoulder thrust the fife into lew s hand and the two boy march out of the cover of the rock into the open make a hideous hash of the first bar of the british grenadier. 
a lew have say a few of the fore and aft be come back sullenly and shamefacedly under the stimulus of blow and abuse. their red coat shine at the head of the valley and behind them be waver bayonet. but between this shatter line and the enemy who with afghan suspicion fear that the hasty retreat mean an ambush and have not move therefore lay half a mile of level grind dot only by the wound. 
the tune settle into full swing and the boy keep shoulder to shoulder jakin bang the drum a one possess. the one fife make a thin and pitiful squeak but the tune carry far even to the goorkhas. 
come on you dog. mutter jakin to himself. be we to play forhever. lew be star straight in front of him and march more stiffly than ever he have do on parade. 
and in bitter mockery of the distant mob the old tune of the old line shrill and rattle. some talk of alexander and some of hercules. of hector and lysander and such great name a these. 
there be a far off clap of hand from the goorkhas and a roar from the highlander in the distance but never a shoot be fire by british or afghan. the two little red dot move forward in the open parallel to the enemy s front. 
but of all the world s great hero there s none that can compare with a tow row row row row row to the british grenadier. 
the men of the fore and aft be gather thick at the entrance into the plain. the brigadier on the height far above be speechless with rage. still no movement from the enemy. the day stay to watch the child. 
jakin halt and beat the long roll of the assembly while the fife squeal despairingly. 
right about face. hold up lew you re drink say jakin. they wheel and march back. 
hose hero of antiquity ne er saw a cannon ball nor know the force o powder. 
here they come. say jakin. go on lew. 
to scare their foe withal. 
the fore and aft be pour out of the valley. what officer have say to men in that time of shame and humiliation will never be know. for neither officer nor men speak of it now. 
they be come anew. shout a priest among the afghan. do not kill the boy. take them alive and they shall be of our faith. 
but the first volley have be fire and lew drop on his face. jakin stand for a minute spin round and collapse a the fore and aft come forward the curse of their officer in their ear and in their heart the shame of open shame. 
 half the men have see the drummer die and they make no sign. they do not even shout. they double out straight across the plain in open order and they do not fire. 
this say the colonel of goorkhas softly be the real attack a it should have be deliver. come on my child. 
ulu lu lu lu. squeal the goorkhas and come down with a joyful click of kukris those vicious goorkha knife. 
on the right there be no rush. the highlander cannily commend their soul to god. for it matter a much to a dead man whether he ha be shoot in a border scuffle or at waterloo. open out and fire accord to their custom that be to say without heat and without interval while the screw gun have dispose of the impertinent mud fort aforementioned drop shell after shell into the cluster round the flicker green standard on the height. 
charrging be an unfortunate necessity murmur the colour sergeant of the right company of the highlander. it make the men sweer so but i be thinkin that it will come to a charrge if these black devil stand much long. stewarrt man you re fire into the eye of the sun and he ll not take any harm for government ammuneetion. a foot low and a great deal slow. what be the english do. they re very quiet there in the center. run again. 
the english be not run. they be hack and hew and stab for though one white man be seldom physically a match for an afghan in a sheepskin or wad coat yet through the pressure of many white men behind and a certain thirst for revenge in his heart he become capable of do much with both end of his rifle. the fore and aft hold their fire till one bullet could drive through five or six men and the front of the afghan force give on the volley. they then select their men and slew them with deep gasp and short hack cough and groan of leather belt against strain body and realise for the first time that an afghan attack be far le formidable than an afghan attack. which fact old soldier might have tell them. 
but they have no old soldier in their rank. 
the goorkhas stall at the bazar be the noisy for the men be engage to a nasty noise a of beef be cut on the block with the kukri which they prefer to the bayonet. well know how the afghan hate the half moon blade. 
a the afghan waver the green standard on the mountain move down to assist them in a last rally. this be unwise. the lancer chafe in the right gorge have thrice despatch their only subaltern a galloper to report on the progress of affair. on the third occasion he return with a bullet graze on his knee swear strange oath in hindustani and say that all thing be ready. so that squadron swing round the right of the highlander with a wicked whistle of wind in the pennon of it lance and fell upon the remnant just when accord to all the rule of war it should have wait for the foe to show more sign of waver. 
but it be a dainty charge deftly deliver and it end by the cavalry find itself at the head of the pas by which the afghan intend to retreat. and down the track that the lance have make stream two company of the highlander which be never intend by the brigadier. the new development be successful. it detach the enemy from his base a a sponge be tear from a rock and leave him ring about with fire in that pitiless plain. and a a sponge be chase round the bath tub by the hand of the bather so be the afghan chase till they break into little detachment much more difficult to dispose of than large mass. 
see. quoth the brigadier. everything ha come a i arrange. we ve cut their base and now we ll bucket em to piece. 
a direct hammer be all that the brigadier have dare to hope for consider the size of the force at his disposal. but men who stand or fall by the error of their opponent may be forgive for turn chance into design. the bucket go forward merrily. the afghan force be upon the run the run of weary wolf who snarl and bite over their shoulder. the red lance dip by two and three and with a shriek uprise the lance butt like a spar on a stormy sea a the trooper canter forward clear his point. the lancer keep between their prey and the steep hill for all who could be try to escape from the valley of death. the highlander give the fugitive two hundred yard law and then bring them down gasp and choke ere they could reach the protection of the boulder above. the goorkhas follow suit. but the fore and aft be kill on their own account for they have pen a mass of men between their bayonet and a wall of rock and the flash of the rifle be light the wad coat. 
we cannot hold them captain sahib. pant a ressaidar of lancer. let u try the carbine. the lance be good but it waste time. 
they try the carbine and still the enemy melt away flee up the hill by hundred when there be only twenty bullet to stop them. on the height the screw gun cease fire they have run out of ammunition and the brigadier groan for the musketry fire could not sufficiently smash the retreat. long before the last volley be fire the doolies be out in force look for the wound. the battle be over and but for want of fresh troop the afghan would have be wipe off the earth. a it be they count their dead by hundred and nowhere be the dead thick than in the track of the fore and aft. 
but the regiment do not cheer with the highlander nor do they dance uncouth dance with the goorkhas among the dead. they look under their brow at the colonel a they lean upon their rifle and pant. 
get back to camp you. haven t you disgrace yourself enough for one day. go and look to the wound. it s all you re fit for say the colonel. yet for the past hour the fore and aft have be do all that mortal commander could expect. they have lose heavily because they do not know how to set about their business with proper skill but they have bear themselves gallantly and this be their reward. 
a young and sprightly colour sergeant who have begin to imagine himself a hero offer his water bottle to a highland whose tongue be black with thirst. i drink with no coward answer the youngster huskily and turn to a goorkha say hya johnny. drink water get it. the goorkha grin and pass his bottle. the fore and aft say no word. 
they go back to camp when the field of strife have be a little mop up and make presentable and the brigadier who saw himself a knight in three month be the only soul who be complimentary to them. the colonel be heartbroken and the officer be savage and sullen. 
well say the brigadier they be young troop of course and it be not unnatural that they should retire in disorder for a bite. 
oh my only aunt maria. murmur a junior staff officer. retire in disorder. it be a bally run. 
but they come again a we all know coo the brigadier the colonel s ashy white face before him and they behave a well a could possibly be expect. behave beautifully indeed. i be watch them. it s not a matter to take to heart colonel. a some german general say of his men they want to be shoot over a little that be all. to himself he say now they re blood i can give em responsible work. it s a well that they get what they do. teach em more than half a dozen rifle flirtation that will late run alone and bite. poor old colonel though. 
all that afternoon the heliograph wink and flicker on the hill strive to tell the good news to a mountain forty mile away and in the even there arrive dusty sweat and sore a misguide correspondent who have go out to assist at a trumpery village burn and who have read off the message from afar curse his luck the while. 
let s have the detail somehow a full a ever you can please. it s the first time i ve ever be leave this campaign say the correspondent to the brigadier. and the brigadier nothing loth tell him how an army of communication have be crumple up destroy and all but annihilate by the craft strategy wisdom and foresight of the brigadier. 
but some say and among these be the goorkhas who watch on the hillside that that battle be win by jakin and lew whose little body be bear up just in time to fit two gap at the head of the big ditch grave for the dead under the height of jagai. 
judson and the empire. 
gloriana. the don may attack u whenever his stomach be fain. he must reach u before he can rack u. and where be the galleon of spain. 
dobson. 
one of the many beauty of a democracy be it almost superhuman skill in develop trouble with other country and find it honour abrade in the process. a true democracy ha a large contempt for all other land that be govern by king and queen and emperor and know little and think le of their internal affair. all it regard be it own dignity which be it king queen and knave. so sooner or late an international difference end in the common people who have no dignity shout the common abuse of the street which also ha no dignity across the sea in order to vindicate their own dignity. the consequence may or may not be war but the chance do not favour peace. 
an advantage in live in a civilise land which be really govern lie in the fact that all the king and queen and emperor of the continent be closely relate by blood or marriage be in fact one large family. a wise head of them know that what appear to be a study insult may be no more than some man s indigestion or woman s indisposition to be treat a such and explain in quiet talk. again a popular demonstration head by king and court may mean nothing more than that so and so s people be out of hand for the minute. when a horse fall to kick in a hunt crowd at a gate the rider doe not dismount but put his open hand behind him and the others draw aside. it be so with the ruler of men. in the old day they cure their own and their people s bad temper with fire and slaughter. but now that the fire be so long of range and the slaughter so large they do other thing and few among their people guess how much they owe in mere life and money to what the slang of the minute call puppet and luxury. 
once upon a time there be a little power the half bankrupt wreck of a once great empire that lose it temper with england the whip boy of all the world and behave a every one know most scandalously. but it be not generally know that that power fight a pitch battle with england and win a glorious victory. the trouble begin with the people. their own misfortune have be many and for private rage it be always refresh to find a vent in public swear. their national vanity have be deeply injure and they think of their ancient glory and the day when their fleet have first round the cape of storm and their own newspaper call upon camoens and urge them to extravagance. it be the gross smooth sleek lie england that be check their career of colonial expansion. they assume at once that their ruler be in league with that country and consequently they his people would forthwith become a republic and colonially expand themselves a a free people should. this make plain the people throw stone at the english consul and spat at english lady and cut off drunken sailor of our fleet in their port and hammer them with oar and make thing very unpleasant for tourist at their custom and threaten awful death to the consumptive invalid at madeira while the junior officer of the army drink fruit extract and enter into blood curdle conspiracy against their monarch all with the object of be a republic. now the history of all the south american republic show that it be not good that southern european should be also republican. they glide too quickly into military despotism. and the prop of men against wall and shoot them in detachment can be arrange much more economically and with le effect on the death rate by a hide bind monarchy. still the performance of the power a represent by it people be extremely inconvenient. it be the kick horse in the crowd and probably the rider explain that he could not check it. the people enjoy all the glory of war with none of the risk and the tourist who be stone in their travel return stolidly to england and tell the time that the police arrangement of foreign town be defective. 
this then be the state of affair north of the line. south it be more strain for there the power be at direct issue. england unable to go back because of the pressure of adventurous child behind her and the action of far away adventurer who would not come to heel but offer to buy out her rival. and the other power lack men or money stiff in the conviction that three hundred year of slave hold and intermingle with the near native give an inalienable right to hold slave and issue half caste to all eternity. they have build no road. their town be rot under their hand. they have no trade worth the freight of a crazy steamer and their sovereignty run almost one musket shoot inland when thing be peaceful. for these very reason they rag all the more and the thing that they say and write about the manner and custom of the english would have drive a young nation to the gun with a long red bill for wound honour. 
it be then that fate send down in a twin screw shallow draft gunboat design for the defence of river of some two hundred and seventy ton displacement lieutenant harrison edward judson to be know for the future a bai jove judson. his type of craft look exactly like a flat iron with a match stick up in the middle. it draw five foot of water or le carry a four inch gun forward which be train by the ship and on account of it persistent roll be to live in three degree bad than a torpedo boat. when judson be appoint to take charge of the thing on her little trip of six or seven thousand mile southward his first remark a he go to look her over in dock be bai jove that topmast want stay forward. the topmast be a stick about a thick a a clothe prop but the flat iron be judson s first command and he would not have exchange his position for second post on the anson or the howe. he navigate her under convoy tenderly and lovingly to the cape. the story of the topmast come with him. and he be so absurdly in love with his wallow wash tub when he report himself that the admiral of the station think it would be a pity to kill a new man on her and allow judson to continue in his unenvied rule. 
the admiral visit her once in simon s bay and she be bad even for a flat iron gunboat strictly design for river and harbour defence. she sweat clammy drop of dew between deck in spite of a preparation of powder cork that be sprinkle over her inside paint. she roll in the long cape swell like a buoy. her foc s le be a dog kennel. judson s cabin be practically under the water line. not one of her dead bight could ever be open. and her compass thank to the influence of the four inch gun be a curiosity even among admiralty compass. but bai jove judson be radiant and enthusiastic. he have even contrive to fill mr. davy the second class engine room artificer who be his chief engineer with the glow of his passion. the admiral who remember his own first command when pride forbid him to slacken off a single rope on a dewy night and he have rack his rig to piece in consequence look at the flat iron keenly. her fender be do all over with white sennit which be truly white. her big gun be varnish with a good composition than the admiralty allow. the spare sight be case a carefully a the chronometer. the chock for spare spar two of them be make of four inch burma teak carve with dragon head that be one result of bai jove judson s experience with the naval brigade in the burmese war. the bow anchor be varnish instead of be paint and there be chart more than the admiralty scale supply. the admiral be well please for he love a ship s husband a man who have a little money of his own and be will to spend it on his command. judson look at him hopefully. he be only a junior navigate lieutenant under eight year stand. he might be keep in simon s bay for six month and his ship at sea be his delight. the dream of his heart be to enliven her dismal official gray with a line of gold leaf and perhaps a little scroll work at her blunt barge like bow. 
there s nothing like a first command be there. say the admiral read his thought. you seem to have rather queer compass though. good get them adjust. 
it s no use sir say judson. the gun would throw out the pole itself. but but i ve get the hang of most of their weakness. 
will you be good enough to lay that gun over thirty degree please. the gun be put over. round and round and round go the needle merrily and the admiral whistle. 
you must have keep close to your convoy. 
saw her twice between here and madeira sir say judson with a flush for he resent the slur on his seamanship. it s it s a little out of hand now but she ll settle down after a while. 
the admiral go over the side accord to the rule of the service but the staff captain must have tell the other men of the squadron in simon s bay for they one and all make light of the flat iron for many day. what can you shake out of her judson. say the lieutenant of the mongoose a real white paint ram bow gunboat with quick fire gun a he come into the upper verandah of the little naval club overlook the dockyard one hot afternoon. it be in that club a the captain come and go that you hear all the gossip of all the seven sea. 
ten point four say bai jove judson. 
ah. that be on her trial trip. she s too deep by the head now. i tell you stay that topmast would throw her out of trim. 
you leave my top hamper alone say judson for the joke be begin to pall on him. 
oh my soul. listen to him. juddy s top hamper. keate have you hear of the flat iron s top hamper. you re to leave it alone. commodore judson s feeling be hurt. 
keate be the torpedo lieutenant of the big vortigern and he despise small thing. his top hamper say he slowly. oh ah yes of course. juddy there s a shoal of mullet in the bay and i think they re foul of your screw. good go down or they ll carry away something. 
i don t let thing carry away a a rule. you see i ve no torpedo lieutenant on board thank god. 
keate within the past week have so manage to bungle the sling in of a small torpedo boat on the vortigern that the boat have break the crutch in which she rest and be herself be repair in the dockyard under the club window. 
one for you keate. never mind juddy. you re hereby appoint dockyard tender for the next three year and if you re very good and there s no sea on you shall take me round the harbour. waitabeechee commodore. what ll you take. vanderhum for the cook and the captain bold and the mate o the nancy brig and the bo sun tight. juddy put that cue down or i ll put you under arrest for insult the lieutenant of the real ship. and the midshipmite and the crew of the captain s gig. 
by this time judson have pin him in a corner and be prod him with the half butt. the admiral s secretary enter and saw the scuffle from afar. 
ouch. juddy i apologise. take that er topmast of yours away. here s the man with the bow string. i wish i be a staff captain instead of a bloody lootenant. sperril sleep below every night. that s what make sperril tumble home from the waist uppards. sperril i defy you to touch me. i m under order for zanzibar. probably i shall annex it. 
judson the admiral want to see you. say the staff captain disregard the scoffer of the mongoose. 
i tell you you d be a dockyard tender yet juddy. a side of fresh beef to morrow and three dozen snapper on ice. on ice you understand juddy. 
bai jove judson and the staff captain go out together. 
now what doe the admiral want with judson. say keate from the bar. 
don t know. juddy s a damn good fellow though. i wish to goodness he be on the mongoose with u. 
the lieutenant of the mongoose drop into a chair and read the mail paper for an hour. then he saw bai jove judson in the street and shout to him. judson s eye be very bright and his figure be hold very straight and he move joyously. except for the lieutenant of the mongoose the club be empty. 
juddy there will be a beautiful row say that young man when he have hear the news deliver in an undertone. you ll probably have to fight and yet i can t see what the admiral s think of to. 
my order be not to fight under any circumstance say judson. 
go look see. that all. when do you go. 
to night if i can. i must go down and see about thing. i say i may want a few men for the day. 
anything on the mongoose be at your service. there s my gig come in now. i know that coast dead drink or asleep and you ll need all the knowledge you can get. if it have only be u two together. come over with me. 
for one whole hour judson remain closet in the stern cabin of the mongoose listen pore over chart upon chart and take note and for an hour the marine at the door hear nothing but thing like these. now you ll have to put in here if there s any sea on. that current be ridiculously under estimate and it set west at this season of the year remember. their boat never come south of this see. so it s no good look out for them. and so on and so forth while judson lay at length on the locker by the three pounder and smoke and absorb it all. 
next morning there be no flat iron in simon s bay only a little smudge of smoke off cape hangklip to show that mr. davy the second class engine room artificer be give her all she could carry. at the admiral s house the ancient and retire bo sun who have see many admiral come and go bring out his paint and brush and give a new coat of pure raw pea green to the two big cannon ball that stand one on each side of the admiral s entrance gate. he felt dimly that great event be stir. 
and the flat iron construct a ha be before say solely for the defense of river meet the great roll off cape agulhas and be sweep from end to end and sit upon her twin screw and leap a gracefully a a cow in a bog from one sea to another till mr. davy begin to fear for the safety of his engine and the kroo boy that make the majority of the crew be deathly sick. she run along a very badly light coast past bay that be no bay where ugly flat top rock lay almost level with the water and very many extraordinary thing happen that have nothing to do with the story but they be all duly log by bai jove judson. 
at last the coast change and grow green and low and exceedingly muddy and there be broad river whose bar be little island stand three or four mile out at sea and bai jove judson hug the shore more closely than ever remember what the lieutenant of the mongoose have tell him. then he find a river full of the smell of fever and mud with green stuff grow far into it water and a current that make the flatiron gasp and grunt. 
we will turn up here say bai jove judson and they turn up accordingly. mr. davy wonder what in the world it all mean and the kroo boy grin. bai jove judson go forward to the bow and meditate star through the muddy water. after six hour of root through this desolation at an average rate of five mile an hour his eye be cheer by the sight of one white buoy in the coffee hue mid stream. the flat iron creep up to it cautiously and a leadsman take sounding all around it from a dinghy while bai jove judson smoke and think with his head on one side. 
about seven foot isn t there. say he. that must be the tail end of the shoal. there s four fathom in the fairway. knock that buoy down with ax. i don t think it s picturesque somehow. the kroo men hack the wooden side to piece in three minute and the moor chain sink with the lasst splinter of wood. bai jove judson lay the flat iron carefully over the site while mr. davy watch bite his nail nervously. 
can you back her against this current. say bai jove judson. mr. davy could inch by inch but only inch by inch and bai jove judson sit in the bow and gaze at various thing on the bank a they come into line or open out. the flatiron drop down over the tail of the shoal exactly where the buoy have be and back once before bai jove judson be satisfy. then they go up stream for half an hour put into shoal water by the bank and wait with a slip rope on the anchor. 
seem to me say mr. davy deferentially like a if i hear some one a fire off at interval so to say. 
there be beyond doubt a dull mutter in the air. seem to me say bai jove judson a if i hear a screw. stand by to slip her mooring. 
another ten minute pass and the beat of engine grow plain. then round the bend of the river come a remarkably prettily build white paint gunboat with a blue and white flag bear a red bos in the centre. 
unshackle abaft the windlass. stream both buoy. easy astern. let go all. the slip rope fly out the two buoy bob in the water to mark where anchor and cable have be leave and the flat iron waddle out into midstream with the white ensign at her one mast head. 
give her all you can. that thing ha the leg of u say judson. and down we go. 
it s war bloody war. he s go to fire say mr. davy look up through the engine room hatch. 
the white gunboat without a word of explanation fire three gun at the flat iron cut the tree on the bank into green chip. bai jove judson be at the wheel and mr. davy and the current help the boat to an almost respectable degree of speed. 
it be an excite chase but it do not last for more than five minute. the white gunboat fire again and mr. davy in his engine room give a wild shout. 
what s the matter. hit. say bai jove judson. 
no i ve just seize of your roos de gare. beg y pardon sir. 
right. just the half a fraction of a point more. the wheel turn under the steady hand a bai jove judson watch his mark on the bank come in line swiftly a troop anxious to aid. the flat iron smelt the shoal water under her check for an instant and go on. now we re over. come along you thief there. 
the white gunboat too hurry even to fire be storm in the wake of the flat iron steer a she steer. this be unfortunate because the light craft be dead over the miss buoy. 
what you do here. shout a voice from the bow. 
i m go on. hold tight. now you re arrange for. 
there be a crash and a clatter a the white gunboat s nose take the shoal and the brown mud boil up in oozy circle under her forefoot. then the current catch her stem by the starboard side and drive her broadside on to the shoal slowly and gracefully. there she heel at an undignified angle and her crew yell aloud. 
neat. oh damn neat. quoth mr. davy dance on the engine room plate while the kroo stoker grin. 
the flat iron turn up stream again and pass under the heave up starboard side of the white gunboat to be receive with howl and imprecation in a strange tongue. the strand boat expose even to her low strake be a defence le a a turtle on it back without the advantage of the turtle s plat. and the one big blunt gun in the bow of the flat iron be unpleasantly near. 
but the captain be valiant and swear mightily. bai jove judson take no sort of notice. his business be to go up the river. 
we will come in a flotilla of boat and ecrazer your vile trick say the captain with language that need not be publish. 
then say bai jove judson who be a linguist. you stay o where you be o or i ll leave a hole o in your bottom o that will make you much o perforatados. 
there be a great deal of mix language in reply but bai jove judson be out of hear in a few minute and mr. davy himself a man of few word confide to one of his subordinate that lieutenant judson be a most remarkable prompt officer in a way of put it. 
for two hour the flat iron paw madly through the muddy water and that which have be at first a mutter become a distinct rumble. 
be war declare. say mr. davy and bai jove judson laugh. then damn his eye he might have spoil my pretty little engine. there s war up there though. 
the next bend bring them full in sight of a small but lively village build round a whitewash mud house of some pretension. there be score and score of saddle colour soldiery on duty white uniform run to and fro and shout round a man in a litter and on a gentle slope that run inland for four or five mile something like a brisk battle be rag round a rude stockade. a smell of unburied carcass float through the air and vex the sensitive nose of mr. davy who spat over the side. 
i want to get this gun on that house say bai jove judson indicate the superior dwell over whose flat roof float the blue and white flag. the little twin screw kick up the water exactly a a hen s leg kick in the dust before she settle down to a bath. the little boat move un easily from leave to right back yaw again go ahead and at last the gray blunt gun s nose be hold a straight a a rifle barrel on the mark indicate. then mr. davy allow the whistle to speak a it be not allow to speak in her majesty s service on account of waste of steam. the soldiery of the village gather into knot and group and bunch and the fire up the hill cease and every one except the crew of the flatiron yell aloud. something like an english cheer come down wind. 
our chap in mischief for sure probably say mr. davy. they must have declare war week ago in a kind of way seem to me. 
hold her steady you son of a soldier. shout bai jove judson a the muzzle fell off the white house. 
something ring a loudly a a ship s bell on the forward plate of the flat iron something splutter in the water and another thing cut a groove in the deck plank an inch in front of bai jove judson s leave foot. the saddle colour soldiery be fire a the mood take them and the man in the litter wave a shin sword. the muzzle of the big gun kick down a fraction a it be lay on the mud wall at the bottom of the house garden. ten pound of gunpowder shut up in a hundred pound of metal be it charge. three or four yard of the mud wall jump up a little a a man jump when he be catch in the small of the back with a knee cap and then fell forward spread fan wise in the fall. the soldiery fire no more that day and judson saw an old black woman climb to the flat roof of the house. she fumble for a time with the flag halliard then find that they be jam take off her one garment which happen to be an isabella colour petticoat and wave it impatiently. the man in the litter flourish a white handkerchief and bai jove judson grin. now we ll give em one up the hill. round with her mr. davy. curse the man who invent those float gun platform. where can i pitch in a notice without slay one of those little devil. 
the side of the slope be speckle with men return in a disorderly fashion to the river front. behind them march a small but very compact body of men who have file out of the stockade. these last drag quick fire gun with them. 
bai jove it s a regular army. i wonder whose say bai jove judson and he wait development. the descend troop meet and mix with the troop in the village and with the litter in the centre crowd down to the river till the men with the quick fire gun come up behind them. then they divide leave and right and the detachment march through. 
heave these damn thing over. say the leader of the party and one after another ten little gatling splash into the muddy water. the flatiron lay close to the bank. 
when you re quite do say bai jove judson politely would you mind tell me what s the matter. i m in charge here. 
we re the pioneer of the general development company say the leader. these little bounder have be hammer u in lager for twelve hour and we re get rid of their gatling. have to climb out and take them. but they ve snaffle the lock action. glad to see you. 
any one hurt. 
no one kill exactly but we re very dry. 
can you hold your men. 
the man turn round and look at his command with a grin. there be seventy of them all dusty and unkempt. 
we sha n t sack this ash bin if that s what you mean. we re mostly gentleman here though we don t look it. 
all right. send the head of this post or fort or village or whatever it be aboard and make what arrangement you can for your men. 
we ll find some barrack accommodation somewhere. hullo. you in the litter there go aboard the gunboat. the command wheel round push through the dislocate soldiery and begin to search through the village for spare hut. 
the little man in the litter come aboard smile nervously. he be in the full of full uniform with many yard of gold lace and dangle chain. also he wear very large spur. the near horse be not more than four hundred mile away. my child say he face the silent soldiery lay aside your arm. 
most of the men have drop them already and be sit down to smoke. let nothing he add in his own tongue tempt you to kill these who have seek your protection. 
now say bai jove judson on whom the last remark be lose will you have the goodness to explain what the deuce you mean by all this nonsense. 
it be of a necessitate say the little man. the operation of war be unconformible. i be the governor and i operate captain. be old my little sword. 
confound your little sword sir. i don t want it. you ve fire on our flag. you ve be fire at our people here for a week and i ve be fire at come up the river. 
ah. the guadala. she have misconstrue you for a slaver possibly. how be the guadala. 
mistake a ship of her majesty s navy for a slaver. you mistake any craft for a slaver. bai jove sir i ve a good mind to hang you at the yard arm. 
there be nothing near that terrible spar than the walk stick in the rack of judson s cabin. the governor look at the one mast and smile a deprecate smile. 
the position be embarrassment he say. captain do you think those illustrious trader burn my capital. my people will give them beer. 
never mind the trader i want an explanation. 
hum. there be popular uprise in europe captain in my country. his eye wander aimlessly round the horizon. 
what ha that to do with. 
captain you be very young. there be still uproariment. but i here he slap his chest till his epaulet jingle i be loyalist to pit of all my stomach. 
go on say judson and his mouth quiver. 
an order arrive to me to establish a custom house here and to collect of the taximent from the trader when she be come here necessarily. that be on account of political understanding with your country and mine. but on that arrangement there be no money also. not one damn little cowrie. i desire damnably to extend all commercial thing and why. i be loyalist and there be rebellion yes i tell you republic in my country for to just begin. you do not believe. see some time how it exist. i cannot make this custom house and pay the so high pay official. the people too in my country they say the king she ha no regardance into honour of her nation. he throw away everything gladstone her all you say pay. 
yes that s what we say say judson with a grin. 
therefore they say let u be republic on hot cake. but i i be loyalist to all my hand end. captain once i be attach at mexico. i say the republic be no good. the people have her stomach high. they desire they desire a course for the bill. 
what on earth be that. 
the cock fight for pay at the gate. you give something pay for see bloody row. do i make it comprehension. 
a run for their money be that what you mean. gad you re sport governor. 
so i say. i be loyalist too. he smile more easily. now how can anything do herself for the custom house. but when the company s men she arrive then a cock fight for pay at gate that be quite correct. my army he say it will republic and shoot me off upon wall if i have not give her blood. an army captain be terrible in her angries especialment when she be not pay. i know too here he lay his hand on judson s shoulder i know too we be old friend. yes. badajos almeida fuentes d onor time ever since. and a little little cock fight for pay at gate that be good for my king. more sit her tight on throne behind you see. now he wave his hand round the decay village i say to my army fight. fight the company s men when she come but fight not so very strong that you be any dead. it be all in the raporta that i send. but you understand captain we be good friend all the time. ah. ciudad rodrigo you remember. no. perhaps your father then. so you see no one be dead and we fight a fight and it be all in the raporta to please the people in our country and my army they do not put me against the wall. you see. 
yes. but the guadala. she fire on u. be that part of your game my joker. 
the guadala. ah. no i think not. her captain he be too big fool. but i think she have go down the coast. those your gunboat poke her nose and shove her oar in every place. how be guadala. 
on a shoal. stick till i take her off. there be any dead. 
no. 
the governor draw a breath of deep relief. there be no dead here. so you see none be dead anywhere and nothing be do. captain you talk to the company s men. i think they be not please. 
naturally. 
they have no sense. i think to go backwards again they would. i leave her stockade alone all night to let them out but they stay and come facewards to me not backwards. they do not know we must conquer much in all these battle or the king he be kick off her throne. now we have win this battle this great battle he wave his arm abroad and i think you will say so that we have win captain. you be loyalist also. you would not disturb to the peaceful europe. captain i tell you this. your queen she know too. she would not fight her cousin. it be a a hand up thing. 
what. 
hand up thing. jobe you put. how you say. 
put up job. 
yes. put up job. who be hurt. we win. you lose. all righta. 
bai jove judson have be explode at interval for the last five minute. here he break down completely and roar aloud. 
but look here governor he say at last i ve get to think of other thing than your riot in europe. you ve fire on our flag. 
captain if you be me you would have do how. and also and also he draw himself up to his full height we be both brave men of brave country. our honour be the honour of our king here he uncover and of our queen here he bow low. now captain you shall shell my palace and i shall be your prisoner. 
skittle. say bai jove judson. i can t shell that old hencoop. 
then come to dinner. madeira she be still to u and i have of the best she manufac. 
he skip over the side beam and bai jove judson go into the cabin to laugh his laugh out. when he have recover a little he send mr. davy to the head of the pioneer the dusty man with the gatling and the troop who have abandon the pursuit of arm watch the disgraceful spectacle of two men reel with laughter on the quarter deck of a gunboat. 
i ll put my men to build him a custom house say the head of the pioneer gasp. we ll make him one decent road at least. that governor ought to be knight. i m glad now that we didn t fight em in the open or we d have kill some of them. so he s win great battle ha he. give him the compliment of the victim and tell him i m come to dinner. you haven t such a thing a a dress suit have you. i haven t see one for six month. 
that even there be a dinner in the village a general and enthusiastic dinner whose head be in the governor s house and whose tail thresh at large throughout all the street. the madeira be everything that the governor have say and more and it be test against two or three bottle of bai jove judson s best vanderhum which be cape brandy ten year in the bottle flavour with orange peel and spice. before the coffee be remove. by the lady who have make the flag of truce. the governor have sell the whole of his governorship and it appurtenance once to bai jove judson for service render by judson s grandfather in the peninsular war and once to the head of the pioneer in consideration of that gentleman s good friendship. after the negotiation he retreat for a while into an inner apartment and there evolve a true and complete account of the defeat of the british arm which he read with his cock hat over one eye to judson and his companion. it be judson who suggest the sink of the flat iron with all hand and the head of the pioneer who supply the list of kill and wound. not more than two hundred. in his command. 
gentleman say the governor from under his cock hat the peace of europe be save by this raporta. you shall all be knight of the golden hide. she shall go by the guadala. 
great heaven. say bai jove judson flush but compose that remind me i ve leave that boat stick on her broadside down the river. i must go down and soothe the commandante. he ll be blue with rage. governor let u go a sail on the river to cool our head. a picnic you understand. 
ya a everything i understand. ho. a picnica. you be all my prisoner but i be good gaoler. we shall picnic on the river and we shall take all the girl. come on my prisoner. 
i do hope say the head of the pioneer star from the verandah into the roar village that my chap win t set the town alight by accident. hullo. hullo. a guard of honour for his excellency the most illustrious governor. 
some thirty men answer the call make a sway line upon a more sway course and bore the governor most swayingly of all high in the arm a they stagger down to the river. and the song that they sing bid them swing swing together their body between their knee. and they obey the word of the song faithfully except that they be anything but steady from stroke to bow. his excellency the governor sleep on his uneasy litter and do not wake when the chorus drop him on the deck of the flat iron. 
good night and good bye say the head of the pioneer to judson. i d give you my card if i have it but i m so damn drink i hardly know my own club. oh yes. it s the traveller. if ever we meet in town remember me. i must stay here and look after my fellow. we re all right in the open now. i s pose you ll return the governor some time. this be a political crisis. good night. 
the flat iron go down stream through the dark. the governor sleep on deck and judson take the wheel but how he steer and why he do not run into each bank many time that officer doe not remember. mr. davy do not note anything unusual for there be two way of take too much and judson be only ward room not foc s le drink. a the night grow cold the governor wake up and express a desire for whiskey and soda. when that come they be nearly abreast of the strand guadala and his excellency salute the flag that he could not see with loyal and patriotic strain. 
they do not see. they do not hear he cry. ten thousand saint. they sleep and i have win battle. ha. 
he start forward to the gun which very naturally be load pull the lanyard and wake the dead night with the roar of the full charge behind a common shell. that shell mercifully just miss the stern of the guadala and burst on the bank. now you shall salute your governor say he a he hear foot run in all direction within the iron skin. why you demand so base a quarter. i be here with all my prisoner. 
in the hurly burly and the general shriek for mercy his reassurance be not hear. 
captain say a grave voice from the ship we have surrender. be it the custom of the english to fire on a helpless ship. 
surrender. holy virgin. i go to cut off all their head. you shall be eat by wild ant flog and drown. throw me a balcony. it be i the governor. you shall never surrender. judson of my soul ascend her inside and send me a bed for i be sleepy. but oh i will multiple time kill that captain. 
oh. say the voice in the darkness i begin to comprehend. and a rope ladder be throw up which the governor scramble with judson at his heel. 
now we will enjoy execution say the governor on the deck. all these republican shall be shoot. little judson if i be not drink why be so slop the board which do not support. 
the deck a i have say be at a very stiff cant. his excellency sit down slide to leeward and be asleep again. 
the captain of the guadala bite his moustache furiously and mutter in his own tongue. this land be the father of great villain and the stepfather of honest men. you see our material captain. it be so everywhere with u. you have kill some of the rat i hope. 
not a rat say judson genially. 
that be a pity. if they be dead our country might send u men. but our country be dead too and i be dishonour on a mud bank through your english treachery. 
well it seem to me that fire on a little tub of our size without a word of warn when you know that the country be at peace be treachery enough in a small way. 
if one of my gun have touch you you would have go to the bottom all of you. i would have take the risk with my government. by that time it would have be. 
a republic. so you really do mean fight on your own hook. you re rather a dangerous officer to cut loose in a navy like yours. well what be you go to do now. 
stay here. go away in boat. what doe it matter. that drunken cat he point to the shadow in which the governor sleep be here. i must take him back to his hole. 
very good. i ll tow you off at daylight if you get steam ready. 
captain i warn you that a soon a she float again i will fight you. 
humbug. you ll have lunch with me and then you ll take the governor up the river. 
the captain be silent for some time. then he say. let u drink. what must be must be. and after all we have not forget the peninsula. you will admit captain that it be bad to be run upon a shoal like a mud dredger. 
oh we ll pull you off before you can say knife. take care of his excellency. i shall try to get a little sleep now. 
they sleep on both ship till the morning and then the work of tow off the guadala begin. with the help of her own engine and the tug and puff of the flat iron she slide off the mud bank sideways into the deep water the flatiron immediately under her stern and the big eye of the four inch gun almost peer through the window of the captain s cabin. 
remorse in the shape of a violent headache have overtake the governor. he be uneasily conscious that he might perhaps have exceed his power. and the captain of the guadala in spite of all his patriotic sentiment remember distinctly that no war have be declare between the two country. he do not need the governor s repeat reminder that war serious war mean a republic at home possible supersession in his command and much shoot of live men against dead wall. 
we have satisfy our honour say the governor in confidence. our army be appease and the raporta that you take home will show that we be loyal and brave. that other captain. bah. he be a boy. he will call this a a. judson of my soul how you say this be all this affair which have transpirate between u. 
judson be watch the last hawser slip through the fairlead. call it. oh i should call it rather a lark. now your boat s all right captain. when will you come to lunch. 
i tell you say the governor it would be a larque to him. 
mother of the saint. then what be his seriousness. say the captain. we shall be happy to come when you please. indeed we have no other choice he add bitterly. 
not at all say judson and a he look at the three or four shoot blister on the bow of his boat a brilliant idea take him. it be we who be at your mercy. see how his excellency s gun knock u about. 
senior captain say the governor pityingly that be very sad. you be most injure and your deck too it be all shoot over. we shall not be too severe on a beat man shall we captain. 
you couldn t spare u a little paint could you. i d like to patch up a little after the action say judson meditatively finger his upper lip to hide a smile. 
our store room be at your disposition say the captain of the guadala and his eye brighten. for a few lead splash on gray paint make a big show. 
mr. davy go aboard and see what they have to spare to spare remember. their spar colour with a little work up should be just our freeboard tint. 
oh yes. i ll spare them say mr. davy savagely. i don t understand this how d you do and damn your eye business come one atop of the other in a manner o speak. by all right they re our lawful prize. 
the governor and the captain come to lunch in the absence of mr. davy. bai jove judson have not much to offer but what he have be give a by a beat foeman to a generous conqueror. when they be a little warm the governor genial and the captain almost effusive he explain quite casually over the open of a bottle that it would not be to his interest to report the affair seriously and it be in the high degree improbable that the admiral would treat it in any grave fashion. 
when my deck be cut up. there be one groove across four plank. and my plate buckle. there be five lead patch on three plate. and i meet such a boat a the guadala and a mere accident save me from be blow out of the water. 
yes. a mere accident captain. the shoal buoy ha be lose say the captain of the guadala. 
ah. i do not know this river. that be very sad. but a i be say when an accident save me from be sink what can i do but go away if that be possible. but i fear that i have no coal for the sea voyage. it be very sad. judson have compromise on what he know of the french tongue a a work language. 
it be enough say the governor wave a generous hand. judson of my soul the coal be yours and you shall be repair yes repair all over of your battle s wound. you shall go with all the honour of all the war. your flag shall fly. your drum shall beat. your ah. jolly boy shall speak their bayonet. be it not so captain. 
a you say excellency. but the trader in the town. what of them. 
the governor look puzzle for an instant. he could not quite remember what have happen to those jovial men who have cheer him over night. judson interrupt swiftly. his excellency ha set them to force work on barrack and magazine and i think a custom house. when that be do they will be release i hope excellency. 
yes they shall be release for your sake little judson of my heart. then they drink the health of their respective sovereign while mr. davy superintend the removal of the scar plank and the shoot mark on the deck and the bow plate. 
oh this be too bad say judson when they go on deck. that idiot ha exceed his instruction but but yow must let me pay for this. 
mr. davy his leg in the water a he sit on a stag sling over the bow be acutely conscious that he be be blame in a foreign tongue. he smile uneasily and go on with his work. 
what be it. say the governor. 
that thick head ha think that we need some gold leaf and he ha borrow that from your storeroom but i must make it good. then in english stand up mr. davy. what the in do you mean by take their gold leaf. my be we a set of pirate to scrape the gut out of a levantine bumboat. look contrite you butt end broad breeched bottle belly swivel eye son of a tinker you. my soul alive can t i maintain discipline in my own ship without a blacksmith of a boiler riveter put me to shame before a yellow nose picaroon. get off the stag mr. davy and go to the engine room. put down that leaf first though and leave the book where they be. i ll send for you in a minute. go aft. 
now only the upper half of mr. davy s round face be above the bulwark when this torrent of abuse descend upon him. and it rise inch by inch a the shower continue. blank amazement bewilderment rage and injure pride chase each other across it till he saw his superior officer s leave eyelid flutter on the cheek twice. then he flee to the engine room and wipe his brow with a handful of cotton waste sit down to overtake circumstance. 
i be desolate say judson to his companion but you see the material that you give u. this leaf me more in your debt than before. the stuff i can replace. gold leaf be never carry on float gun platform. but for the insolence of that man how shall i apologise. 
mr. davy s mind move slowly but after a while he transfer the cotton waste from his forehead to his mouth and bite on it to prevent laughter. he begin a second dance on the engine room plate. neat. oh damn neat. he chuckle. i ve serve with a good few but there never be one so neat a him. and i think he be the new kind that don t know how to put a few word a it be. 
mr. davy you can continue your work say judson down the engine room hatch. these officer have be good enough to speak in your favour. make a thorough job of it while you be about it. slap on every man you have. where do you get hold of it. 
their storeroom be a regular theatre sir. you couldn t miss it. there s enough for two first rate and i ve scoff the best half of it. 
look sharp then. we shall be coal from her this afternoon. you ll have to cover it all. 
neat. oh damn neat. say mr. davy under his breath a he gather his subordinate together and set about accomplish the long defer wish of judson s heart. 
it be the martin frobisher the flag ship a great war boat when she be new in the day when men build for sail a well a for steam. she could turn twelve knot under full sail and it be under that that she stand up the mouth of the river a pyramid of silver beneath the moon. the admiral fear that he have give judson a task beyond his strength be come to look for him and incidentally to do a little diplomatic work along the coast. there be hardly wind enough to move the frobisher a couple of knot an hour and the silence of the land close about her a she enter the fairway. her yard sigh a little from time to time and the ripple under her bow answer the sigh. the full moon rise over the steam swamp and the admiral gaze upon it think le of judson and more of the soft emotion. in answer to the very mood of his mind there float across the silver level of the water mellow by distance to a most poignant sweetness the throb of a mandolin and the voice of one who call upon a genteel julia upon julia and upon love. the song cease and the sigh of the yard be all that break the silence of the big ship. 
again the mandolin begin and the commander on the lee side of the quarter deck grin a grin that be reflect in the face of the signal midshipman. not a word of the song be lose and the voice of the singer be the voice of judson. 
last week down our alley come a toff nice old geyser with a nasty cough see my missus take his topper off quite in a gentlemanly way. 
and so on to the end of the verse. the chorus be bear by several voice and the signal midshipman s foot begin to tap the deck furtively. 
what cheer. all the neighbour cry. oo be you go to meet bill. ave you buy the street bill. laugh. i think i should ha die when i knock em in the old kent road. 
it be the admiral s gig row softly that come into the midst of that merry little smoke concert. it be judson the beribboned mandolin round his neck who receive the admiral a he come up the side of the guadala and it may or may not have be the admiral who stay till two in the morning and delight the heart of the captain and the governor. he have come a an unbidden guest and he depart a an honour one but strictly unofficial throughout. judson tell his tale next day in the admiral s cabin a well a he could in the face of the admiral s gale of laughter but the most amaze tale be that tell by mr. davy to his friend in the dockyard at simon s town from the point of view of a second class engine room artificer all unversed in diplomacy. 
and if there be no truth either in my tale which be judson s tale or the tale of mr. davy you will not find in harbour at simon s town to day a flat bottom twin screw gunboat design solely for the defence of river about two hundred and seventy ton displacement and five foot draught wear in open defiance of the rule of the service a gold line on her gray paint. it follow also that you will be compel to credit that version of the fray which sign by his excellency the governor and despatch in the guadala satisfy the self love of a great and glorious people and save a monarchy from the ill consider despotism which be call a republic. 
a conference of the power life liveth but in life and doth not roam to other land if all be well at home. solid a ocean foam quoth ocean foam. 
the room be blue with the smoke of three pipe and a cigar. the leave season have open in india and the first fruit on this side of the water be tick boileau of the th bengal cavalry who call on me after three year absence to discus old thing which have happen. fate who always doe her work handsomely send up the same staircase within the same hour the infant fresh from upper burma and he and boileau look out of my window saw walk in the street one nevin late in a goorkha regiment which have be through the black mountain expedition. they yell to him to come up and the whole street be aware that they desire him to come up and he come up and there follow pandemonium in my room because we have foregather from the end of the earth and three of u be on a holiday and none of u be twenty five and all the delight of all london lay wait our pleasure. 
boileau take the only other chair the infant by right of his bulk the sofa. and nevin be a little man sit cross legged on the top of the revolve bookcase and we all say who d ha think it. and what be you do here. till speculation be exhaust and the talk go over to inevitable shop. boileau be full of a great scheme for win a military attach ship at st. petersburg. nevin have hope of the staff college and the infant have be move heaven and earth and the horse guard for a commission in the egyptian army. 
what s the use o that. say nevin twirl round on the bookcase. 
oh heap. course if you get stick with a fellah regiment you re sell. but if you be appoint to a soudanese lot you re in clover. they be first class fight men and just think of the eligible central position of egypt in the next row. 
this be put the match to a magazine. we all begin to explain the central asian question off hand fling army corp from the helmund to kashmir with more than russian recklessness. each of the boy make for himself a war to his own like and when we have settle all the detail of armageddon kill all our senior officer handle a division apiece and nearly tear the atlas in two in attempt to explain our theory boileau need must lift up his voice above the clamour and cry anyhow it ll be the hell of a row. in tone that carry conviction far down the staircase. 
enter unperceived in the smoke william the silent. gen elman to see you sir say he and disappear leave in his stead none other than mr. eustace cleever. william would have introduce the dragon of wantley with equal disregard of present company. 
i i beg your pardon. i didn t know that there be anybody with you. 
but it be not seemly to allow mr. cleever to depart. he be a great man. the boy remain where they be for any movement would have choke up the little room. only when they saw his gray hair they stand on their foot and when the infant catch the name he say. 
be you do you write that book call a it be in the begin. 
mr. cleever admit that he have write the book. 
then then i don t know how to thank you sir say the infant flush pink. i be bring up in the country you write about all my people live there. and i read the book in camp on the hlinedatalone and i know every stick and stone and the dialect too. and by jove. it be just like be at home and hear the country people talk. nevin you know a it be in the begin. so doe ti boileau. 
mr. cleever ha taste a much praise public and private a one man may safely swallow. but it seem to me that the outspoken admiration in the infant s eye and the little stir in the little company come home to him very nearly indeed. 
win t you take the sofa. say the infant. i ll sit on boileau s chair and here he look at me to spur me to my duty a a host. but i be watch the novelist s face. cleever have not the least intention of go away but settle himself on the sofa. 
follow the first great law of the army which say all property be common except money and you ve only get to ask the next man for that the infant offer tobacco and drink. it be the least he could do. but not the most lavish praise in the world hold half a much appreciation and reverence a the infant s simple say when sir above the long glass. 
cleever say when and more thereto for he be a golden talker and he sit in the midst of hero worship devoid of all taint of self interest. the boy ask him of the birth of his book and whether it be hard to write and how his notion come to him. and he answer with the same absolute simplicity a he be question. his big eye twinkle he dig his long thin hand into his gray beard and tug it a he grow animate. he drop little by little from the peculiar pinch of the broad vowel the indefinable euh that run through the speech of the pundit caste and the elaborate choice of word to freely mouth ows and ois and for him at least unfettered colloquialism. he could not altogether understand the boy who hang upon his word so reverently. the line of the chin strap that still show white and untanned on cheekbone and jaw the steadfast young eye pucker at the corner of the lid with much star through red hot sunshine the slow untroubled breathe and the curious crisp curt speech seem to puzzle him equally. he could create men and woman and send them to the uttermost end of the earth to help delight and comfort. he know every mood of the field and could interpret them to the city and he know the heart of many in city and country but he have hardly in forty year come into contact with the thing which be call a subaltern of the line. he tell the boy this in his own way. 
well how should you. say the infant. you you re quite different y see sir. 
the infant express his idea in his tone rather than his word but cleever understand the compliment. 
we re only sub say nevin and we aren t exactly the sort of men you d meet much in your life i s pose. 
that s true say cleever. i live chiefly among men who write and paint and sculp and so forth. we have our own talk and our own interest and the out world doesn t trouble u much. 
that must be awfully jolly say boileau at a venture. we have our own shop too but tisn t half a interest a yours of course. you know all the men who ve ever do anything. and we only knock about from place to place and we do nothing. 
the army s a very lazy profession if you choose to make it so say nevin. when there s nothing go on there be nothing go on and you lie up. 
or try to get a billet somewhere to be ready for the next show say the infant with a chuckle. 
to me say cleever softly the whole idea of warfare seem so foreign and unnatural so essentially vulgar if i may say so that i can hardly appreciate your sensation. of course though any change from idle in garrison town must be a godsend to you. 
like many home stay englishman cleever believe that the newspaper phrase he quote cover the whole duty of the army whose toil enable him to enjoy his many side life in peace. the remark be not a happy one for boileau have just come off the frontier the infant have be on the warpath for nearly eighteen month and the little red man nevin two month before have be sleep under the star at the peril of his life. but none of them try to explain till i venture to point out that they have all see service and be not use to idle. cleever take in the idea slowly. 
see service. say he. then a a child might ask tell me. tell me everything about everything. 
how do you mean. say the infant delight at be directly appeal to by the great man. 
good heaven. how be i to make you understand if you can t see. in the first place what be your age. 
twenty three next july say the infant promptly. 
cleever question the others with his eye. 
i m twenty four say nevin. 
and i m twenty two say boileau. 
and you ve all see service. 
we ve all knock about a little bite sir but the infant s the war wear veteran. he s have two year work in upper burma say nevin. 
when you say work what do you mean you extraordinary creature. 
explain it infant say nevin. 
oh keep thing in order generally and run about after little dakus that s dacoit and so on. there s nothing to explain. 
make that young leviathan speak say cleever impatiently above his glass. 
how can he speak. say i. he s do the work. the two don t go together. but infant you re order to bukb. 
what about. i ll try. 
bukb about a daur. you ve be on heap of em say nevin. 
what in the world doe that mean. ha the army a language of it own. 
the infant turn very red. he be afraid he be be laugh at and he detest talk before outsider. but it be the author of a it be in the begin who wait. 
it s all so new to me plead cleever. and and you say you like my book. this be a direct appeal that the infant could understand and he begin rather flurriedly with much slang breed of nervousness. 
pull me up sir if i say anything you don t follow. about six month before i take my leave out of burma i be on the hlinedatalone up near the shan state with sixty tommies private soldier that be and another subaltern a year senior to me. the burmese business be a subaltern s war and our force be split up into little detachment all run about the country and try to keep the dacoit quiet. the dacoit be have a first class time y know fill woman up with kerosene and set em alight and burn village and crucify people. 
the wonder in eustace cleever s eye deepen. he could not quite realise that the cross still exist in any form. 
have you ever see a crucifixion. say he. 
of course not. shouldn t have allow it if i have. but i ve see the corps. the dacoit have a trick of send a crucify corpse down the river on a raft just to show they be keep their tail up and enjoy themselves. well that be the kind of people i have to deal with. 
alone. say cleever. solitude of the soul he could understand none good but he have never in the body move ten mile from his fellow. 
i have my men but the rest of it be pretty much alone. the near post that could give me order be fifteen mile away and we use to heliograph to them and they use to give u order same way too many order. 
who be your c. say boileau. 
bounderby major. pukka bounderby. more bounder than pukka. he go out up bhamo way. shoot or cut down last year say the infant. 
what be these interlude in a strange tongue. say cleever to me. 
professional information like the mississippi pilot talk say i. he do not approve of his major who die a violent death. go on infant. 
far too many order. you couldn t take the tommies out for a two day daur that s expedition without be blow up for not ask leave. and the whole country be hum with dacoit. i use to send out spy and act on their information. a soon a a man come in and tell me of a gang in hide i d take thirty men with some grub and go out and look for them while the other subaltern lay doggo in camp. 
lay. pardon me but how do he lie. say cleever. 
lay doggo lay quiet with the other thirty men. when i come back he d take out his half of the men and have a good time of his own. 
who be he. say boileau. 
carter deecey of the aurungabadis. good chap but too zubberdusty and go bokhar four day out of seven. he s go out too. don t interrupt a man. 
cleever look helplessly at me. 
the other subaltern i translate swiftly come from a native regiment and be overbear in his demeanour. he suffer much from the fever of the country and be now dead. go on infant. 
after a bite we get into trouble for use the men on frivolous occasion and so i use to put my signaller under arrest to prevent him read the helio order. then i d go out and leave a message to be send an hour after i get clear of the camp something like this. receive important information. start in an hour unless countermand. if i be order back it didn t much matter. i swear the c. s watch be wrong or something when i come back. the tommies enjoy the fun and oh yes there be one tommy who be the bard of the detachment. he use to make up verse on everything that happen. 
what sort of verse. say cleever. 
lovely verse. and the tommies use to sing em. there be one song with a chorus and it say something like this. the infant drop into the true barrack room twang. 
theebaw the burma king do a very foolish thing when e muster ostile force in ar rai e little think that we from far across the sea would send our army up to mandalai. 
gorgeous. say cleever. and how magnificently direct. the notion of a regimental bard be new to me but of course it must be so. 
he be awfly popular with the men say the infant. he have them all down in rhyme a soon a ever they have do anything. he be a great bard. he be always ready with an elegy when we pick up a boh that s a leader of dacoit. 
how do you pick him up. say cleever. 
oh. shoot him if he wouldn t surrender. 
you. have you shoot a man. 
there be a subdue chuckle from all three boy and it dawn on the questioner that one experience in life which be deny to himself and he weigh the soul of men in a balance have be share by three very young gentleman of engage appearance. he turn round on nevin who have climb to the top of the bookcase and be sit cross legged a before. 
and have you too. 
think so say nevin sweetly. in the black mountain. he be roll cliff on to my half company and spoil our formation. i take a rifle from a man and bring him down at the second shoot. 
good heaven. and how do you feel afterwards. 
thirsty. i want a smoke too. 
cleever look at boileau the young. surely his hand be guiltless of blood. 
boileau shake his head and laugh. go on infant say he. 
and you too. say cleever. 
fancy so. it be a case of cut cut or be cut with me. so i cut one. i couldn t do any more sir. 
cleever look a though he would like to ask many question but the infant sweep on in the full tide of his tale. 
well we be call insubordinate young whelp at last and strictly forbid to take the tommies out any more without order. i wasn t sorry because tommy be such an exact sort of creature. he want to live a though he be in barrack all the time. i be grub on fowl and boil corn but the tommies want their pound of fresh meat and their half ounce of this and their two ounce of t other thing and they use to come to me and badger me for plug tobacco when we be four day in jungle. i say. i can get you burma tobacco but i don t keep a canteen up my sleeve. they couldn t see it. they want all the luxury of the season confound em. 
you be alone when you be deal with these men. say cleever watch the infant s face under the palm of his hand. he be receive new idea and they seem to trouble him. 
of course unless you count the mosquito. they be nearly a big a the men. after i have to lie doggo i begin to look for something to do and i be great pal with a man call hicksey in the police the best man that ever step on earth. a first class man. 
cleever nod applause. he know how to appreciate enthusiasm. 
hicksey and i be a thick a thief. he have some burma mount police rummy chap arm with sword and snide carbine. they ride punchy burma pony with string stirrup red cloth saddle and red bell rope headstall. hicksey use to lend me six or eight of them when i ask him nippy little devil keen a mustard. but they tell their wife too much and all my plan get know till i learn to give false march order overnight and take the men to quite a different village in the morning. then we use to catch the simple daku before breakfast and make him very sick. it s a ghastly country on the hlinedatalone. all bamboo jungle with path about four foot wide wind through it. the daku know all the path and pot at u a we come round a corner. but the mount police know the path a well a the daku and we use to go stalk em in and out. once we flush em the men on the pony have the advantage of the men on foot. we hold all the country absolutely quiet for ten mile round in about a month. then we take boh na ghee hicksey and i and the civil officer. that be a lark. 
i think i be begin to understand a little say cleever. it be a pleasure to you to administer and fight. 
rather. there s nothing nice than a satisfactory little expedition when you find your plan fit together and your information s teek correct you know and the whole sub chiz i mean when everything work out like formula on a blackboard. hicksey have all the information about the boh. he have be burn village and murder people right and leave and cut up government convoy and all that. he be lie doggo in a village about fifteen mile off wait to get a fresh gang together. so we arrange to take thirty mount police and turn him out before he could plunder into our newly settle village. at the last minute the civil officer in our part of the world think he d assist at the performance. 
who be he. say nevin. 
his name be dennis say the infant slowly. and we ll let it stay so. he s a good man now than he be then. 
but how old be the civil power. say cleever. the situation be develop itself. 
he be about six and twenty and he be awf ly clever. he know a lot of thing but i don t think he be quite steady enough for dacoit hunt. we start overnight for boh na ghee s village and we get there just before morning without raise an alarm. dennis have turn out arm to his teeth two revolver a carbine and all sort of thing. i be talk to hicksey about post the men and dennis edge his pony in between u and say what shall i do. what shall i do. tell me what to do you fellow. we didn t take much notice. but his pony try to bite me in the leg and i say pull out a bite old man till we ve settle the attack. he keep edge in and fiddle with his rein and his revolver and say dear me. dear me. oh dear me. what do you think i d good do. the man be in a deadly funk and his teeth be chatter. 
i sympathise with the civil power say cleever. continue young clive. 
the fun of it be that he be suppose to be our superior officer. hicksey take a good look at him and tell him to attach himself to my party. beastly mean of hicksey that. the chap keep on edge in and bother instead of ask for some men and take up his own position till i get angry and the carbine begin pop on the other side of the village. then i say for god s sake be quiet and sit down where you be. if you see anybody come out of the village shoot at him. i know he couldn t hit a hayrick at a yard. then i take my men over the garden wall over the palisade y know somehow or other and the fun begin. hicksey have find the boh in bed under a mosquito curtain and he have take a fly jump on to him. 
a fly jump. say cleever. be that also war. 
yes say the infant now thoroughly warm. don t you know how you take a fly jump on to a fellow s head at school when he snore in the dormitory. the boh be sleep in a bedful of sword and pistol and hicksey come down like zazel through the net and the net get mix up with the pistol and the boh and hicksey and they all roll on the floor together. i laugh till i couldn t stand and hicksey be curse me for not help him. so i leave him to fight it out and go into the village. our men be slash about and fire and so be the dacoit and in the thick of the mess some as set fire to a house and we all have to clear out. i freeze on to the near daku and run to the palisade shove him in front of me. he wriggle loose and bound over the other side. i come after him. but when i have one leg one side and one leg the other of the palisade i saw that the daku have fall flat on dennis s head. that man have never move from where i leave him. they roll on the grind together and dennis s carbine go off and nearly shoot me. the daku pick himself up and run and dennis buzz his carbine after him and it catch him on the back of his head and knock him silly. you never saw anything so funny in your life. i double up on the top of the palisade and hang there yell with laughter. but dennis begin to weep like anything. oh i ve kill a man he say. i ve kill a man and i shall never know another peaceful hour in my life. be he dead. oh be he dead. good lord i ve kill a man. i come down and say don t be a fool. but he keep on shout be he dead. till i could have kick him. the daku be only knock out of time with the carbine. he come to after a bite and i say be you hurt much. he groan and say no. his chest be all cut with scramble over the palisade. the white man s gun didn t do that he say. i do that and i knock the white man over. just like a burman wasn t it. but dennis wouldn t be happy at any price. he say. tie up his wound. he ll bleed to death. oh he ll bleed to death. tie em up yourself i say if you re so anxious. i can t touch him say dennis but here s my shirt. he take off his shirt and fix the brace again over his bare shoulder. i rip the shirt up and bandage the dacoit quite professionally. he be grin at dennis all the time. and dennis s haversack be lie on the grind burst full of sandwich. greedy hog. i take some and offer some to dennis. how can i eat. he say. how can you ask me to eat. his very blood be on your hand now and you re eat my sandwich. all right i say. i ll give em to the daku. so i do and the little chap be quite please and wolf em down like one o clock. 
cleever bring his hand down on the table with a thump that make the empty glass dance. that s art. he say. flat flagrant mechanism. don t tell me that happen on the spot. 
the pupil of the infant s eye contract to two pin point. i beg your pardon he say slowly and stiffly but i be tell this thing a it happen. 
cleever look at him a moment. my fault entirely say he. i should have know. please go on. 
hicksey come out of what be leave of the village with his prisoner and captive all neatly tie up. boh na ghee be first and one of the villager a soon a he find the old ruffian helpless begin kick him quietly. the boh stand it a long a he could and then groan and we saw what be go on. hicksey tie the villager up and give him a half a dozen good with a bamboo to remind him to leave a prisoner alone. you should have see the old boh grin. oh. but hicksey be in a furious rage with everybody. he d get a wipe over the elbow that have tickle up his funny bone and he be rabid with me for not have help him with the boh and the mosquito net. i have to explain that i couldn t do anything. if you d see em both tangle up together on the floor in one kick cocoon you d have laugh for a week. hicksey swear that the only decent man of his acquaintance be the boh and all the way to camp hicksey be talk to the boh and the boh be complain about the soreness of his bone. when we get back and have have a bath the boh want to know when he be go to be hang. hicksey say he couldn t oblige him on the spot but have to send him to rangoon. the boh go down on his knee and reel off a catalogue of his crime he ought to have be hang seventeen time over by his own confession and implore hicksey to settle the business out of hand. if i m send to rangoon say he they ll keep me in jail all my life and that be a death every time the sun get up or the wind blow. but we have to send him to rangoon and of course he be let off down there and give penal servitude for life. when i come to rangoon i go over the jail i have help to fill it y know and the old boh be there and he spot me at once. he beg for some opium first and i try to get him some but that be against the rule. then he ask me to have his sentence change to death because he be afraid of be send to the andamans. i couldn t do that either but i try to cheer him and tell him how thing be go up country and the last thing he say be give my compliment to the fat white man who jump on me. if i d be awake i d have kill him. i write that to hicksey next mail and and that s all. i m fraid i ve be gas awf ly sir. 
cleever say nothing for a long time. the infant look uncomfortable. he fear that mislead by enthusiasm he have fill up the novelist s time with unprofitable recital of trivial anecdote. 
then say cleever i can t understand. why should you have see and do all these thing before you have cut your wisdom teeth. 
don t know say the infant apologetically. i haven t see much only burmese jungle. 
and dead men and war and power and responsibility say cleever under his breath. you win t have any sensation leave at thirty if you go on a you have do. but i want to hear more tale more tale. he seem to forget that even subaltern might have engagement of their own. 
we re think of din out somewhere the lot of u and go on to the empire afterwards say nevin with hesitation. he do not like to ask cleever to come too. the invitation might be regard a perilously near to cheek. and cleever anxious not to wag a gray beard unbidden among boy at large say nothing on his side. 
boileau solve the little difficulty by blurt out. win t you come too sir. 
cleever almost shout yes and while he be be help into his coat continue to murmur good heaven. at interval in a way that the boy could not understand. 
i don t think i ve be to the empire in my life say he. but what be my life after all. let u go. 
they go out with eustace cleever and i sulk at home because they have come to see me but have go over to the good man. which be humiliate. they pack him into a cab with utmost reverence for be he not the author of a it be in the begin and a person in whose company it be an honour to go abroad. from all i gather late he have take le interest in the performance before him than in their conversation and they protest with emphasis that he be a good a man a they make. know what a man be drive at almost before he say it. and yet he s so damn simple about thing any man know. that be one of many comment. 
at midnight they return announce that they be highly respectable gondolier and that oyster and stout be what they chiefly need. the eminent novelist be still with them and i think he be call them by their short name. i be certain that he say he have be move in world not realise and that they have show him the empire in a new light. 
still sore at recent neglect i answer shortly thank heaven we have within the land ten thousand a good a they and when he depart ask him what he think of thing generally. 
he reply with another quotation to the effect that though sing be a remarkably fine performance i be to be quite sure that few lip would be move to song if they could find a sufficiency of kiss. 
whereby i understand that eustace cleever decorator and colourman in word be blaspheme his own art and would be sorry for this in the morning. 
