the seven sea. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
author of many invention barrack room ballad the jungle book etc. 
[illustration]. 
new york d. appleton and company. 
copyright by rudyard kipling. 
this book be also protect by copyright under the law of great britain and the several poem contain herein have also be severally copyright in the unite state of america. 
content. 
page dedication to the city of bombay v a song of the english the first chantey the last chantey the merchantman mcandrews hymn the miracle the native bear the king the rhyme of the three sealer the derelict the song of the banjo the liner she s a lady mulholland s contract anchor song the sea wife hymn before action to the true romance the flower the last rhyme of true thomas the story of ung the three decker an american the mary gloster sestina of the tramp royal. 
barrack room ballad. 
back to the army again bird of prey march soldier an sailor too sapper that day the men that fight at minden cholera camp the lady bill awkins the mother lodge follow me ome the sergeant s weddin the jacket the eathen the shut eye sentry mary pity woman. for to admire l envoi. 
dedication. 
to the city of bombay. 
the city be full of pride challenge each to each this from her mountain side that from her burthen beach. 
they count their ship full tale their corn and oil and wine derrick and loom and bale and rampart s gun fleck line. city by city they hail. hast aught to match with mine. 
and the men that breed from them they traffic up and down but cling to their city hem a a child to the mother s gown. 
when they talk with the strange band daze and newly alone. when they walk in the strange land by roar street unknown. bless her where she stand for strength above their own. 
on high to hold her fame that stand all fame beyond by oath to back the same most faithful foolish fond. make her mere breathe name their bond upon their bond. 
so thank i god my birth fell not in isle aside waste headland of the earth or war tribe untried but that she lend me worth and give me right to pride. 
surely in toil or fray under an alien sky comfort it be to say. of no mean city be i. 
neither by service nor fee come i to mine estate mother of city to me for i be bear in her gate between the palm and the sea where the world end steamer wait. 
now for this debt i owe and for her far bear cheer must i make haste and go with tribute to her pier. 
and she shall touch and remit after the use of king. orderly ancient fit. my deep sea plundering and purchase in all land. and this we do for a sign her power be over mine and mine i hold at her hand. 
a song of the english. 
fair be our lot o goodly be our heritage. humble ye my people and be fearful in your mirth. for the lord our god most high he hath make the deep a dry he hath smite for u a pathway to the end of all the earth. 
yea though we sin and our ruler go from righteousness deep in all dishonour though we stain our garment hem. oh be ye not dismay though we stumble and we stray we be lead by evil counsellor the lord shall deal with them. 
hold ye the faith the faith our father sealèd u. whore not with vision overwise and overstale. except ye pay the lord single heart and single sword of your child in their bondage shall he ask them treble tale. 
keep ye the law be swift in all obedience. clear the land of evil drive the road and bridge the ford. make ye sure to each his own that he reap what he hath sow. by the peace among our people let men know we serve the lord. 
* * * * *. 
hear now a song a song of break interlude a song of little cunning. of a singer nothing worth. through the naked word and mean may ye see the truth between a the singer know and touch it in the end of all the earth. 
the coastwise light. 
our brow be wreathe with spindrift and the weed be on our knee. our loin be batter neath u by the swing smoke sea. from reef and rock and skerry over headland ness and voe the coastwise light of england watch the ship of england go. 
through the endless summer evening on the lineless level floor. through the yell channel tempest when the syren hoot and roar by day the dip house flag and by night the rocket s trail a the sheep that graze behind u so we know them where they hail. 
we bridge across the dark and bid the helmsman have a care the flash that wheel inland wake his sleep wife to prayer. from our vex eyry head to gale we bind in burn chain the lover from the sea rim draw his love in english lane. 
we greet the clipper wing and wing that race the southern wool. we warn the crawl cargo tank of bremen leith and hull. to each and all our equal lamp at peril of the sea the white wall side warship or the whaler of dundee. 
come up come in from eastward from the guard port of the morn. beat up beat in from southerly o gipsy of the horn. swift shuttle of an empire s loom that weave u main to main the coastwise light of england give you welcome back again. 
go get you go up channel with the sea crust on your plate. go get you into london with the burden of your freight. haste for they talk of empire there and say if any seek the light of england send you and by silence shall ye speak. 
the song of the dead. 
hear now the song of the dead in the north by the tear berg edge they that look still to the pole asleep by their hide strip sledge. song of the dead in the south in the sun by their skeleton horse where the warrigal whimper and bay through the dust of the sere river course. 
song of the dead in the east in the heat rot jungle hollow where the dog ape bark in the kloof in the brake of the buffalo wallow. song of the dead in the west in the barren the snow that betray them where the wolverine tumble their pack from the camp and the grave mound they make them. hear now the song of the dead. 
i. 
we be dreamer dream greatly in the man stifle town. we yearn beyond the skyline where the strange road go down. come the whisper come the vision come the power with the need. till the soul that be not man s soul be lend u to lead. a the deer break a the steer break from the herd where they graze in the faith of little child we go on our way. then the wood fail then the food fail then the last water dry in the faith of little child we lay down and die. on the sand drift on the veldt side in the fern scrub we lay that our son might follow after by the bone on the way. follow after follow after. we have water the root and the bud ha come to blossom that ripen for fruit. follow after we be wait by the trail that we lose for the sound of many footstep for the tread of a host. follow after follow after for the harvest be sow. by the bone about the wayside ye shall come to your own. 
* * * * *. 
when drake go down to the horn and england be crown thereby twixt sea unsailed and shore unhailed our lodge our lodge be bear. and england be crown thereby. 
which never shall close again by day nor yet by night while man shall take his life to stake at risk of shoal or main. by day nor yet by night. 
but standeth even so a now we witness here while men depart of joyful heart adventure for to know. a now bear witness here. 
ii. 
we have feed our sea for a thousand year and she call u still unfed though there s never a wave of all her wave but mark our english dead. we have straw our best to the weed s unrest to the shark and the sheer gull. if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay in full. 
there s never a flood go shoreward now but lift a keel we man. there s never an ebb go seaward now but drop our dead on the sand but slink our dead on the sand forlore from the ducies to the swin. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay it in. 
we must fee our sea for a thousand year for that be our doom and pride a it be when they sail with the golden hind or the wreck that strike last tide or the wreck that lie on the spout reef where the ghastly blue light flare. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha buy it fair. 
the deep sea cable. 
the wreck dissolve above u. their dust drop down from afar down to the dark to the utter dark where the blind white sea snake be. there be no sound no echo of sound in the desert of the deep or the great gray level plain of ooze where the shell bur cable creep. 
here in the womb of the world here on the tie rib of earth word and the word of men flicker and flutter and beat warn sorrow and gain salutation and mirth for a power trouble the still that ha neither voice nor foot. 
they have waken the timeless thing. they have kill their father time. join hand in the gloom a league from the last of the sun. hush. men talk to day o er the waste of the ultimate slime and a new word run between. whisper let u be one. 
the song of the son. 
one from the end of the earth gift at an open door treason ha much but we mother thy son have more. from the whine of a die man from the snarl of a wolf pack free turn for the world be thine. mother be proud of thy seed. count be we feeble or few. hear be our speech so rude. look be we poor in the land. judge be we men of the blood. 
those that have stay at thy knee mother go call them in we that be breed overseas wait and would speak with our kin. not in the dark do we fight haggle and flout and gibe. sell our love for a price loan our heart for a bribe. gift have we only to day love without promise or fee hear for thy child speak from the uttermost part of the sea. 
the song of the city. 
bombay. 
royal and dower royal i the queen front thy rich sea with rich hand a thousand mill roar through me where i glean all race from all land. 
calcutta. 
me the sea captain love the river build wealth seek and king adventure life to hold. hail england. i be asia power on silt death in my hand but gold. 
madras. 
clive kiss me on the mouth and eye and brow wonderful kiss so that i become crown above queen a wither beldame now brood on ancient fame. 
rangoon. 
hail mother. do they call me rich in trade. little care i but hear the shorn priest drone and watch my silk clothe lover man by maid laugh neath my shwe dagon. 
singapore. 
hail mother. east and west must seek my aid ere the spend gear shall dare the port afar. the second doorway of the wide world s trade be mine to loose or bar. 
hong kong. 
hail mother. hold me fast. my praya sleep under innumerable keel to day. yet guard. and landward. or to morrow sweep thy warship down the bay. 
halifax. 
into the mist my guardian prow put forth behind the mist my virgin rampart lie the warden of the honour of the north sleepless and veil be i. 
quebec and montreal. 
peace be our portion. yet a whisper rise foolish and causeless half in jest half hate. now wake we and remember mighty blow and fear no man wait. 
victoria. 
from east to west the circle word ha pass till west be east beside our land lock blue. from east to west the test chain hold fast the well forge link ring true. 
capetown. 
hail. snatch and barter oft from hand to hand i dream my dream by rock and heath and pine of empire to the northward. ay one land from lion s head to line. 
melbourne. 
greet. nor fear nor favour win u place get between greed of gold and dread of drouth loud voice and reckless a the wild tide race that whip our harbour mouth. 
sydney. 
greet. my birth stain have i turn to good. force strong will perverse to steadfastness. the first flush of the tropic in my blood and at my foot success. 
brisbane. 
the northern stirp beneath the southern sky i build a nation for an empire s need suffer a little and my land shall rise queen over land indeed. 
hobart. 
man s love first find me. man s hate make me hell. for my babe sake i cleanse those infamy. earnest for leave to live and labour well god fling me peace and ease. 
auckland. 
last lonely lovely exquisite apart on u on u the unswerving season smile who wonder mid our fern why men depart to seek the happy isle. 
england s answer. 
truly ye come of the blood. slow to bless than to ban. little use to lie down at the bid of any man. flesh of the flesh that i breed bone of the bone that i bare. stark a your son shall be stern a your father be. deep than speech our love strong than life our tether but we do not fall on the neck nor kiss when we come together. my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. son i have bear many son but my dug be not dry. look i have make ye a place and open wide the door that ye may talk together your baron and councillor ward of the out march lord of the low sea ay talk to your gray mother that bore you on her knee. that ye may talk together brother to brother s face thus for the good of your people thus for the pride of the race. also we will make promise. so long a the blood endure i shall know that your good be mine. ye shall feel that my strength be yours. in the day of armageddon at the last great fight of all that our house stand together and the pillar do not fall. draw now the three fold knot firm on the nine fold band and the law that ye make shall be law after the rule of your land. this for the waxen heath and that for the wattle bloom this for the maple leaf and that for the southern broom. the law that ye make shall be law and i do not press my will because ye be son of the blood and call me mother still. now must ye speak to your kinsman and they must speak to you after the use of the english in straight fling word and few. go to your work and be strong halt not in your way baulk the end half win for an instant dole of praise. stand to your work and be wise certain of sword and pen who be neither child nor god but men in a world of men. 
the first chantey. 
mine be the woman to me darkling i find her. hale her dumb from the camp hold her and bind her. hot rise her tribe on our track ere i have prove her. hear her laugh in the gloom greatly i love her. 
swift through the forest we run. none stand to guard u few be my people and far. then the flood bar u him we call son of the sea sullen and swell. pant we wait the death stealer and steal. 
yet ere they come to my lance lay for the slaughter lightly she leap to a log lap in the water. hold on high and apart skin that array her call she the god of the wind that he should aid her. 
life have the tree at that word. praise we the giver. otter like leave he the bank for the full river. far fell their ax behind flash and ring wonder be on me and fear yet she be sing. 
low lay the land we have leave. now the blue bind u even the floor of the god level around u. whisper there be not nor word shadow nor show still the light stir on the deep glow and grow. 
then do he leap to his place flare from under he the compeller the sun bar to our wonder. nay not a league from our eye blind with gaze clear he the womb of the world huge and amaze. 
this we behold. and we live. the pit of the burn then the god speak to the tree for our return. back to the beach of our flight fearless and slowly back to our slayer he go. but we be holy. 
men that be hot in that hunt woman that follow babe that be promise our bone tremble and wallow. over the neck of the tribe crouch and fawn prophet and priestess we come back from the dawn. 
the last chantey. 
and there be no more sea. 
thus say the lord in the vault above the cherub call to the angel and the soul in their degree. lo. earth ha pass away on the smoke of judgment day. that our word may be establish shall we gather up the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner. plague upon the hurricane that make u furl and flee. but the war be do between u in the deep the lord hath see u our bone we ll leave the barracout and god may sink the sea. 
then say the soul of juda that betrayèd him. lord hast thou forget thy covenant with me. how once a year i go to cool me on the floe and ye take my day of mercy if ye take away the sea. 
then say the soul of the angel of the off shore wind. he that bit the thunder when the bull mouth breaker flee. i have watch and ward to keep o er thy wonder on the deep and ye take mine honour from me if ye take away the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner. nay but we be angry and a hasty folk be we. if we work the ship together till she founder in foul weather be we babe that we should clamour for a vengeance on the sea. 
then say the soul of the slave that men throw overboard. kennel in the picaroon a weary band be we. but thy arm be strong to save and it touch u on the wave and we drowse the long tide idle till thy trumpet tear the sea. 
then cry the soul of the stout apostle paul to god. once we frap a ship and she labour woundily. there be fourteen score of these and they bless thee on their knee when they learn thy grace and glory under malta by the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner pluck at their harp and they pluck unhandily. our thumb be rough and tar and the tune be something hard may we lift a deep sea chantey such a seaman use at sea. 
then say the soul of the gentleman adventurer fetter wrist to bar all for red iniquity. ho we revel in our chain o er the sorrow that be spain s. heave or sink it leave or drink it we be master of the sea. 
up spake the soul of a gray gothavn speckshioner. he that lead the flinch in the fleet of fair dundee. ho the ringer and right whale and the fish we strike for sale will ye whelm them all for wantonness that wallow in the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner cry. under heaven here be neither lead nor lea. must we sing for evermore on the windless glassy floor. take back your golden fiddle and we ll beat to open sea. 
then stoop the lord and he call the good sea up to him and stablished his border unto all eternity that such a have no pleasure for to praise the lord by measure they may enter into galleon and serve him on the sea. 
sun wind and cloud shall fail not from the face of it sting ring spindrift nor the fulmar fly free. and the ship shall go abroad to the glory of the lord who hear the silly sailor folk and give them back their sea. 
the merchantman. 
king solomon draw merchantman because of his desire for peacock ape and ivory from tarshish unto tyre. with cedar out of lebanon which hiram raft down but we be only sailormen that use in london town. 
coastwise cross sea round the world and back again where the flaw shall head u or the full trade suit plain sail storm sail lay your board and tack again and that s the way we ll pay paddy doyle for his boot. 
we bring no store of ingot of spice or precious stone but that we have we gather with sweat and ache bone. in flame beneath the tropic in frost upon the floe and jeopardy of every wind that doe between them go. 
and some we get by purchase and some we have by trade and some we find by courtesy of pike and carronade at midnight mid sea meeting for charity to keep and light the roll homeward bind that ride a foot too deep. 
by sport of bitter weather we re walty strain and scar from the kentledge on the kelson to the sling upon the yard. six ocean have their will of u to carry all away our galley s in the baltic and our boom s in mossel bay. 
we ve flounder off the texel awash with sodden deal we ve slip from valparaiso with the norther at our heel. we ve ratched beyond the crossets that tusk the southern pole and dip our gunnel under to the dread agulhas roll. 
beyond all out chart we sail where none have sail and saw the land light burn on island none have hail. our hair stand up for wonder but when the night be do there dance the deep to windward blue empty neath the sun. 
strange consort ride beside u and bring u evil luck. the witch fire climb our channel and dance on vane and truck. till through the red tornado that lash u nigh to blind we saw the dutchman plunge full canvas head to wind. 
we ve hear the midnight leadsman that call the black deep down ay thrice we ve hear the swimmer the thing that may not drown. on freeze bunt and gasket the sleet cloud drave her host when man by more than sign with u we pass the isle o ghost. 
and north amid the hummock a biscuit toss below we meet the silent shallop that fright whaler know. for down a cruel ice lane that open a he speed we saw dead henry hudson steer north by west his dead. 
so deal god s water with u beneath the roar sky so walk his sign and marvel all naked to our eye. but we be head homeward with trade to lose or make good lord they slip behind u in the tail of our wake. 
let go let go the anchor. now sham at heart be we to bring so poor a cargo home that have for gift the sea. let go the great bow anchor ah fool be we and blind the bad we bale with utter toil the best we leave behind. 
coastwise cross sea round the world and back again whither the flaw shall fail u or the trade drive down. plain sail storm sail lay your board and tack again and all to bring a cargo up to london town. 
mcandrews hymn. 
lord thou hast make this world below the shadow of a dream an teach by time i tak it so exceptin always steam. from coupler flange to spindle guide i see thy hand o god predestination in the stride o yon connectin rod. john calvin might ha forge the same enorrmous certain slow ay work it in the furnace flame my institutio. i cannot get my sleep to night. old bone be hard to please. i ll stand the middle watch up here alone wi god an these my engine after ninety day o race an rack an strain through all the sea of all thy world slam bangin home again. slam bang too much they knock a wee the crosshead gib be loose. but thirty thousand mile o sea ha gi them fair excuse. fine clear an dark a full draught breeze wi ushant out o sight an ferguson relievin hay. old girl ye ll walk to night. his wife s at plymouth. seventy one two three since he begin three turn for mistress ferguson. an who s to blame the man. there s none at any port for me by drivin fast or slow since elsie campbell go to thee lord thirty year ago. the year the sarah sand be burn. oh road we use to tread fra maryhill to pollokshaws fra govan to parkhead. not but they re ceevil on the board. ye ll hear sir kenneth say. good morrn mcandrews. back again. an how s your bilge to day. miscallin technicality but handin me my chair to drink madeira wi three earl the auld fleet engineer that start a a boiler whelp when steam and he be low. i mind the time we use to serve a break pipe wi tow. ten pound be all the pressure then eh. eh. a man wad drive. an here our workin gauge give one hunder fifty five. we re creepin on wi each new rig le weight an large power. there ll be the loco boiler next an thirty knot an hour. thirty an more. what i ha see since ocean steam begin leaf me no doot for the machine. but what about the man. the man that count wi all his run one million mile o sea. four time the span from earth to moon. how far o lord from thee. that wast beside him night an day. ye mind my first typhoon. it scoughed the skipper on his way to jock wi the saloon. three foot be on the stokehold floor just slappin to an fro an cast me on a furnace door. i have the mark to show. mark. i ha mark o more than burn deep in my soul an black an time like this when thing go smooth my wickudness come back. the sin o four and forty year all up an down the sea clack an repeat like valve half feed. forgie s our trespass. night when i d come on deck to mark wi envy in my gaze the couple kittlin in the dark between the funnel stay. year when i rake the port wi pride to fill my cup o wrong judge not o lord my step aside at gay street in hong kong. blot out the wastrel hour of mine in sin when i abide jane harrigan s an number nine the reddick an grant road. an waur than all my crownin sin rank blasphemy an wild. i be not four and twenty then ye wadna judge a child. i d see the tropic first that run new fruit new smell new air how could i tell blind fou wi sun the deil be lurkin there. by day like playhouse scene the shore slide past our sleepy eye. by night those soft lasceevious star leer from those velvet sky in port. we use no cargo steam. i d daunder down the street an ijjit grinnin in a dream for shell an parrakeet an walkin stick o carve bamboo an blowfish stuff an dry fillin my bunk wi rubbishry the chief put overside. till off sumbawa head ye mind i hear a land breeze ca milk warm wi breath o spice an bloom. mcandrews come awa. firm clear an low no haste no hate the ghostly whisper go just statin eevidential fact beyon all argument. your mither s god s a graspin deil the shadow o yoursel get out o book by meenisters clean daft on heaven an hell. they mak him in the broomielaw o glasgie cold an dirt a jealous pridefu fetich lad that s only strong to hurt ye ll not go back to him again an kiss his red hot rod but come wi u. now who be they. an know the leevin god that doe not kipper soul for sport or break a life in jest but swell the ripenin cocoanut an rip the woman s breast. an there it stop. cut off. no more. that quiet certain voice for me six month o twenty four to leave or take at choice. twas on me like a thunderclap it rack me through an through temptation past the show o speech unnamable an new the sin against the holy ghost. an under all our screw. that storm blow by but leave behind her anchor shiftin swell thou knowest all my heart an mind thou knowest lord i fell. third on the mary gloster then and first that night in hell. yet be thy hand beneath my head. about my foot thy care fra deli clear to torres strait the trial o despair but when we touch the barrier reef thy answer to my prayer. we dare na run that sea by night but lay an hold our fire an i be drowzin on the hatch sick sick wi doubt an tire. _better the sight of eye that see than wanderin o desire. ye mind that word. clear a our gong again an once again when rippin down through coral trash run out our moorin chain. an by thy grace i have the light to see my duty plain. light on the engine room no more clear a our carbon burn. i ve lose it since a thousand time but never past return. 
* * * * *. 
obsairve. per annum we ll have here two thousand soul aboard think not i dare to justify myself before the lord but average fifteen hunder soul safe bear fra port to port i be o service to my kind. ye wadna blame the think. maybe they steam from grace to wrath to sin by folly lead it isna mine to judge their path their life be on my head. mine at the last when all be do it all come back to me the fault that leaf six thousand ton a log upon the sea. we ll tak one stretch three week an odd by any road ye steer fra cape town east to wellington ye need an engineer. fail there ye ve time to weld your shaft ay eat it ere ye re speak or make kerguelen under sail three jigger burn wi smoke. an home again the rio run. it s no child s play to go steamin to bell for fourteen day o snow an floe an blow the berg like kelpy overside that girn an turn an shift whaur grindin like the mill o god go by the big south drift. hail snow an ice that praise the lord. i ve meet them at their work an wish we have anither route or they anither kirk. yon s strain hard strain o head an hand for though thy power bring all skill to naught ye ll understand a man must think o thing. then at the last we ll get to port an hoist their baggage clear the passenger wi glove an cane an this be what i ll hear. well thank ye for a pleasant voyage. the tender s comin now. while i go testin follower bolt an watch the skipper bow. they ve word for everyone but me shake hand wi half the crew except the dour scot engineer the man they never know. an yet i like the wark for all we ve dam few pickin s here no pension an the most we earn s four hunder pound a year. good myself abroad. maybe. i d sooner starve than sail wi such a call a snifter rod ross. french for nightingale. commeesion on my store. some do. but i can not afford to lie like steward wi patty pan. i m old than the board. a bonus on the coal i save. ou ay the scot be close but when i grudge the strength ye give i ll grudge their food to those. there s brick that i might recommend an clink the fire bar cruel. no. welsh wangarti at the bad an damn all patent fuel. invention. ye must stay in port to mak a patent pay. my deeferential valve gear teach me how that business lay i blame no chap wi clear head for aught they make or sell. i find that i could not invent an look to these a well. so wrestle wi apollyon nah. fret like a bairn but burn the workin plan last run wi all i hop to earn. ye know how hard an idol dy an what that mean to me e en tak it for a sacrifice acceptable to thee. below there. oiler. what s your wark. ye find her runnin hard. ye needn t swill the cap wi oil this isn t the cunard. ye think. ye be not pay to think. go sweat that off again. tck. tck. it s deeficult to sweer nor tak the name in vain. men ay an woman call me stern. wi these to oversee ye ll note i ve little time to burn on social repartee. the bairn see what their elder miss. they ll hunt me to an fro till for the sake of well a kiss i tak em down below. that mind me of our viscount loon sir kenneth s kin the chap wi russia leather tennis shoon an spar deck yachtin cap. i show him round last week o er all an at the last say he. mister mcandrews don t you think steam spoil romance at sea. damn ijjit. i d be doon that morn to see what ail the throw manholin on my back the crank three inch from my nose. romance. those first class passenger they like it very well print an bind in little book. but why don t poet tell. i m sick of all their quirk an turn the love an dove they dream lord send a man like robbie burn to sing the song o steam. to match wi scotia s noble speech yon orchestra sublime whaurto uplift like the just the tail rod mark the time. the crank throw give the double bass. the fee pump sob an heave. an now the main eccentric start their quarrel on the sheaf. her time her own appoint time the rock link head bid till hear that note. the rod s return whings glimmerin through the guide. they re all awa. true beat full power the clangin chorus go clear to the tunnel where they sit my purrin dynamoes. interdependence absolute foresee ordain decree to work ye ll note at any tilt an every rate o speed. fra skylight lift to furnace bar back bolt brace an stay an singin like the mornin star for joy that they be make. while out o touch o vanity the sweatin thrust block say. not unto u the praise or man not unto u the praise. now a together hear them lift their lesson theirs an mine. law orrder duty an restraint obedience discipline. mill forge an try pit teach them that when roarin they arise an while i wonder if a soul be gi them wi the blow. oh for a man to weld it then in one trip hammer strain till even first class passenger could tell the meanin plain. but no one care except mysel that serve an understand my seven thousand horse power here. eh lord. they re grand they re grand. uplift be i. when first in store the new make beasties stand be ye cast down that breathe the word declarin all thing good. not so. o that warld liftin joy no after fall could vex ye ve leave a glimmer still to cheer the man the arrtifex. that hold in spite o knock and scale o friction waste an slip an by that light now mark my word we ll build the perfect ship. i ll never last to judge her line or take her curve not i. but i ha live an i ha work. all thank to thee most high. an i ha do what i ha do judge thou if ill or well always thy grace preventin me. losh. yon s the stand by bell. pilot so soon. his flare it be. the mornin watch be set. well god be thank a i be sayin i m no pelagian yet. now i ll tak on. morrn ferguson. man have ye ever think what your good leddy cost in coal. i ll burn em down to port. 
the miracle. 
i send a message to my dear a thousand league and more to her the dumb sea level thrill to hear and lose atlantis bore to her. 
behind my message hard i come and nigh have find a grave for me. but that i launch of steel and flame do war against the wave for me. 
uprise the deep by gale on gale to bid me change my mind again he break his teeth along my rail and roar swing behind again. 
i stay the sun at noon to tell my way across the waste of it. i read the storm before it fell and make the good haste of it. 
afar i hail the land at night the tower i build have hear of me and ere my rocket reach it height have flash my love the word of me. 
earth give her choose men of strength. they live and strive and die for me. to drive my road a nation s length and toss the mile aside for me. 
i snatch their toil to serve my need too slow their fleet fly for me i tire twenty smoke steed and bid them bait a new for me. 
i send the lightning forth to see where hour by hour she wait me. among ten million one be she and surely all men hat me. 
dawn run to meet u at my goal ah day no tongue shall tell again. and little folk of little soul rise up to buy and sell again. 
the native bear. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. but he doe not understand. we ve drink to the wide creation and the cross swing low to the morn last toast and of obligation a health to the native bear. 
they change their sky above them but not their heart that roam. we learn from our wistful mother to call old england home. we read of the english sky lark of the spring in the english lane but we scream with the paint lory a we ride on the dusty plain. 
they pass with their old world legend their tale of wrong and dearth our father hold by purchase but we by the right of birth. our heart s where they rock our cradle our love where we spend our toil and our faith and our hope and our honour we pledge to our native soil. 
i charge you charge your glass i charge you drink with me to the men of the four new nation and the island of the sea to the last least lump of coral that none may stand outside and our own good pride shall teach u to praise our comrade s pride. 
to the hush of the breathless morning on the thin tin crackle roof to the haze of the burn back range and the dust of the shoeless hoof to the risk of a death by drown to the risk of a death by drouth to the men of a million acre to the son of the golden south. 
to the son of the golden south. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a single blow. 
to the smoke of a hundred coaster to the sheep on a thousand hill to the sun that never blister to the rain that never chill to the land of the wait springtime to our five meal meat feed men to the tall deep bosom woman and the child nine and ten. 
and the child nine and ten. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a two fold blow. 
to the far fling fenceless prairie where the quick cloud shadow trail to our neighbour s barn in the off and the line of the new cut rail. to the plough in her league long furrow with the gray lake gull behind to the weight of a half year s winter and the warm wet western wind. 
to the home of the flood and thunder to her pale dry heal blue to the lift of the great cape comber and the smell of the bake karroo. to the growl of the sluice stamp head to the reef and the water gold to the last and the large empire to the map that be half unroll. 
to our dear dark foster mother to the heathen song they sing to the heathen speech we babble ere we come to the white man s tongue. to the cool of our deep veranda to the blaze of our jewel main to the night to the palm in the moonlight and the fire fly in the cane. 
to the hearth of our people s people to her well plough windy sea to the hush of our dread high altar where the abbey make u we. to the grist of the slow grind age to the gain that be yours and mine to the bank of the open credit to the power house of the line. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. and we hope he ll understand. we ve drink a much a we re able and the cross swing low to the morn. last toast and your foot on the table. a health to the native bear. 
a health to the native bear. stand up. we re six white men arow all bind to sing o the little thing we care about all bind to fight for the little thing we care about with the weight of a six fold blow. by the might of our cable tow. take hand. from the orkneys to the horn all round the world. and a little loop to pull it by. all round the world. and a little strap to buckle it. a health to the native bear. 
the king. 
farewell romance. the cave men say. with bone well carve he go away flint arm the ignoble arrowhead and jasper tip the spear to day. change be the god of hunt and dance and he with these. farewell romance. 
farewell romance. the lake folk sigh. we lift the weight of flatling year. the cavern of the mountain side hold him who scorn our hutted pier. lose hill whereby we dare not dwell guard ye his rest. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the soldier speak. by sleight of sword we may not win but scuffle mid uncleanly smoke of arquebus and culverin. honour be lose and none may tell who pay good blow. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the trader cry. our keel ha lie with every sea. the dull return wind and tide heave up the wharf where we would be. the know and note breeze swell our trudge sail. romance farewell. 
good bye romance. the skipper say. he vanish with the coal we burn. our dial mark full steam ahead our speed be time to half a turn. sure a the tidal train we ply twixt port and port. romance good bye. 
romance. the season ticket mourn _he never run to catch his train but pass with coach and guard and horn and leave the local late again. confound romance. and all unseen romance bring up the nine fifteen. 
his hand be on the lever lay his oil can soothe the worry crank his whistle wake the snowbound grade his fog horn cut the reek bank. in dock and deep and mine and mill the boy god reckless labour still. 
rob crown and throne he weave his spell where heart blood beat or hearth smoke curl with unconsidered miracle hedge in a backward gaze world. then teach his choose bard to say. the king be with u yesterday. 
the rhyme of the three sealer. 
away by the land of the japanee when the paper lantern glow and the crew of all the ship drink in the house of blood street joe at twilight when the landward breeze bring up the harbour noise and ebb of yokohama bay swig chatter through the buoy in cisco s dewdrop din room they tell the tale anew of a hide sea and a hide fight when the baltic run from the northern light and the stralsund fight the two. 
now this be the law of the muscovite that he prof with shoot and steel when ye come by his isle in the smoky sea ye must not take the seal where the gray sea go nakedly between the weed hang shelf and the little blue fox he be breed for his skin and the seal they breed for themselves. for when the matkas seek the shore to drop their pup aland the great man seal haul out of the sea aroaring band by band. and when the first september gale have slake their rut wrath the great man seal haul back to the sea and no man know their path. then dark they lie and stark they lie rookery dune and floe and the northern light come down o night to dance with the houseless snow. and god who clear the ground berg and steer the grind floe he hear the cry of the little kit fox and the lemming on the snow. but since our woman must walk gay and money buy their gear the seal boat they filch that way at hazard year by year. english they be and japanee that hang on the brown bear s flank and some be scot but the bad god wot and the bold thief be yank. 
it be the sealer northern light to the smoky sea she bore. with a stovepipe stick from a starboard port and the russian flag at her fore. baltic stralsund and northern light oh. they be bird of a feather slip away to the smoky sea three seal thief together. and at last she come to a sandy cove and the baltic lay therein but her men be up with the herd seal to drive and club and skin. there be fifteen hundred skin abeach cool pelt and proper fur when the northern light drive into the bight and the sea mist drive with her. the baltic call her men and weigh she could not choose but run for a stovepipe see through the close mist it show like a four inch gun. and loss it be that be sad a death to lose both trip and ship and lie for a rot contraband on vladivostock slip. she turn and dive in the sea smother a a rabbit dive in the whin and the northern light send up her boat to steal the steal skin. they have not bring a load to side or slide their hatch clear when they be aware of a sloop of war ghost white and very near. her flag she show and her gun she show three of them black abeam and a funnel white with the crust salt but never a show of steam. there be no time to man the brake they knock the shackle free and the northern light stand out again goose wing to open sea. 
for life it be that be bad than death by force of russian law to work in the mine of mercury that loose the teeth in your jaw. they have not run a mile from shore they hear no shot behind when the skipper smite his hand on his thigh and throw her up in the wind. bluff raise out on a bluff say he for if my name s tom hall you must set a thief to catch a thief and a thief ha catch u all. by every butt in oregon and every spar in maine the hand that spill the wind from her sail be the hand of reuben paine. he ha rig and trigged her with paint and spar and faith he ha fake her well but i d know the stralsund s deckhouse yet from here to the boom o hell. oh once we ha meet at baltimore and twice on boston pier but the sick day for you reuben paine be the day that you come here the day that you come here my lad to scare u from our seal with your funnel make o your paint cloth and your gun o rotten deal. ring and blow for the baltic now and head her back to the bay for we ll come into the game again with a double deck to play. 
they ring and blow the sealer call the poach cry o the sea and they raise the baltic out of the mist and an angry ship be she. and blind they grope through the whirl white and blind to the bay again till they hear the creak of the stralsund s boom and the clank of her moor chain. they lay them down by bitt and boat their pistol in their belt and. will you fight for it reuben paine or will you share the pelt. 
a dog toothed laugh laugh reuben paine and bar his flenching knife. yea skin for skin and all that he hath a man will give for his life. but i ve six thousand skin below and yeddo port to see and there s never a law of god or man run north of fifty three. so go in peace to the naked sea with empty hold to fill and i ll be good to your seal this catch a many a i shall kill. 
answer the snap of a close lock and the jar of a gun butt slide but the tender fog shut fold on fold to hide the wrong they do. the weep fog roll fold on fold the wrath of man to cloak and the flame spurt pale run down the rail a the seal rifle speak. the bullet bite on bend and butt the splinter sliver free. little they trust to sparrow dust that stop the seal in his sea. the thick smoke hang and would not shift leaden it lay and blue but three be down on the baltic s deck and two of the stralsund s crew. an arm s length out and overside the bank fog hold them bind. but a they hear or groan or word they fire at the sound. for one cry out on the name of god and one to have him cease. and the quest volley find them both and bid them hold their peace. and one call out on a heathen joss and one on the virgin s name. and the school bullet leap across and show them whence they come. and in the wait silence the rudder whine beneath and each man draw his watchful breath slow take tween the teeth trigger and ear and eye acock knit brow and hard draw lip brace his foot by chock and cleat for the roll of the ship. till they hear the cough of a wound man that fight in the fog for breath till they hear the torment of reuben paine that wail upon his death. 
the tide they ll go through fundy race but i ll go never more and see the hog from ebb tide mark turn scamper back to shore. no more i ll see the trawler drift below the bass rock grind or watch the tall fall steamer light tear blaze up the sound. sorrow be me in a lonely sea and a sinful fight i fall but if there s law o god or man you ll swing for it yet tom hall. 
tom hall stand up by the quarter rail. your word in your teeth say he. there s never a law of god or man run north of fifty three. so go in grace with him to face and an ill spend life behind and i ll take care o your widow rube a many a i shall find. a stralsund man shoot blind and large and a warlock finn be he and he hit tom hall with a burst ball a hand s breadth over the knee. tom hall catch hold by the top lift and sit him down with an oath you ll wait a little rube he say the devil ha call for both. the devil be drive both this tide and the kill ground be close and we ll go up to the wrath of god a the holluschickie go. o men put back your gun again and lay your rifle by we ve fight our fight and the best be down. let up and let u die. quit fire by the bow there quit. call off the baltic s crew. you re sure of hell a me or rube but wait till we get through. 
there go no word between the ship but thick and quick and loud the life blood drum on the drip deck with the fog dew from the shroud the sea pull draw them side by side gunnel to gunnel lay and they felt the sheerstrakes pound and clear but never a word be say. 
then reuben paine cry out again before his spirit pass. have i follow the sea for thirty year to die in the dark at last. curse on her work that ha nip me here with a shifty trick unkind i have get my death where i get my bread but i dare not face it blind. curse on the fog. be there never a wind of all the wind i know to clear the smother from off my chest and let me look at the blue. the good fog hear like a splitten sail to leave and right she tear and they saw the sun dog in the haze and the seal upon the shore. silver and gray run spit and bay to meet the steel back tide and pinch and white in the clear light the crew star overside. o rainbow gay the red pool lay that swill and spill and spread and gold raw gold the spend shell roll between the careless dead the dead that rock so drunkenwise to weather and to lee and they saw the work their hand have do a god have bid them see. 
and a little breeze blow over the rail that make the headsail lift but no man stand by wheel or sheet and they let the schooner drift. and the rattle rise in reuben s throat and he cast his soul with a cry and go already. tom hall he say. then it s time for me to die. his eye be heavy with great sleep and yearn for the land and he speak a a man that talk in dream his wind beneath his hand. oh there come no good in the westering wind that back against the sun. wash down the deck they re all too red and share the skin and run baltic stralsund and northern light clean share and share for all you ll find the fleet off tolstoi mees but you will not find tom hall. evil he do in shoal water and black sin on the deep but now he s sick of watch and trick and now he ll turn and sleep. he ll have no more of the crawl sea that make him suffer so but he ll lie down on the kill ground where the holluschickie go. and west you ll turn and south again beyond the sea fog s rim and tell the yoshiwara girl to burn a stick for him. and you ll not weight him by the heel and dump him overside but carry him up to the sand hollow to die a bering die and make a place for reuben paine that know the fight be fair and leave the two that do the wrong to talk it over there. 
half steam ahead by guess and lead for the sun be mostly veil through fog to fog by luck and log sail ye a bering sail. and if the light shall lift aright to give your landfall plain north and by west from zapne crest ye raise the cross twain. fair mark be they to the inner bay the reckless poacher know what time the scar see catchie lead their sleek seraglio. ever they hear the floe pack clear and the blast of the old bull whale and the deep seal roar that beat off shore above the loud gale. ever they wait the winter s hate a the thunder boorga call where northward look they to st. george and westward to st. paul s. ever they greet the hunt fleet lone keel off headland drear when the seal schooner flit that way at hazard year by year. ever in yokohama port men tell the tale anew of a hide sea and a hide fight when the baltic run from the northern light and the stralsund fight the two. 
the derelict. 
and report the derelict mary pollock still at sea. 
ship news. 
i be the staunch of our fleet till the sea rise beneath our foot unheralded in hatred past all measure. into his pit he stamp my crew buffet blind bind and throw. bid me eyeless wait upon his pleasure. 
man make me and my will be to my maker still whom now the current con the roller steer lift forlorn to spy trail smoke along the sky fall afraid l any keel come near. 
wrench a the lip of thirst wried dry and split and burst bone bleach my deck wind scour to the grain. and jar at every roll the gear that be my soul answer the anguish of my beam complain. 
for life that cram me full gang of the pry gull that shriek and scrabble on the rive hatch. for roar that dumbed the gale my hawse pipe gutter wail sob my heart out through the uncounted watch. 
blind in the hot blue ring through all my point i swing swing and return to shift the sun anew. blind in my well know sky i hear the star go by mock the prow that can not hold one true. 
white on my waste path wave after wave in wrath fret gainst his fellow war where to send me. fling forward heave aside witless and daze i bide the mercy of the comber that shall end me. 
north where the berg careen the spray of sea unseen smoke round my head and freeze in the fall. south where the coral breed the footle float weed fold me and foul me strake on strake upcrawling. 
i that be clean to run my race against the sun strength on the deep be bawd to all disaster whip forth by night to meet my sister s careless foot and with a kiss betray her to my master. 
man make me and my will be to my maker still to him and his our people at their pier. lift in hope to spy trail smoke along the sky. fall afraid l any keel come near. 
the song of the banjo. 
you couldn t pack a broadwood half a mile you mustn t leave a fiddle in the damp you couldn t raft an organ up the nile and play it in an equatorial swamp. i travel with the cook pot and pail i_ m sandwich tween the coffee and the pork and when the dusty column check and tail you should hear me spur the rearguard to a walk. 
with my _pilly willy winky winky popp. [o it s any tune that come into my head. ] so i keep em move forward till they drop. so i play em up to water and to bed. 
in the silence of the camp before the fight when it s good to make your will and say your prayer you can hear my strumpty tumpty overnight explain ten to one be always fair. i m the prophet of the utterly absurd of the patently impossible and vain and when the thing that couldn t ha occur give me time to change my leg and go again. 
with my _tumpa tumpa tumpa tum pa tump. in the desert where the dung feed camp smoke curl there be never voice before u till i lead our lonely chorus i the war drum of the white man round the world. 
by the bitter road the young son must tread ere he win to hearth and saddle of his own mid the riot of the shearer at the shed in the silence of the herder s hut alone in the twilight on a bucket upside down hear me babble what the weak win t confess i be memory and torment i be town. i be all that ever go with even dress. 
with my _tunk a tunka tunka tunka tunk. [so the light the london light grow near and plain. ] so i rowel em afresh towards the devil and the flesh till i bring my break ranker home again. 
in desire of many marvel over sea where the new raise tropic city sweat and roar i have sail with young ulysses from the quay till the anchor rumble down on strange shore. he be blood to the open and the sky he be take in a snare that shall not fail he shall hear me sing strongly till he die like the shout of a backstay in a gale. 
with my _hya. heeya. heeya. hullah. haul. [o the green that thunder aft along the deck. ] be you sick o town and men. you must sign and sail again for it s johnny bowleg pack your kit and trek. 
through the gorge that give the star at noon day clear up the pas that pack the scud beneath our wheel round the bluff that sink her thousand fathom sheer down the valley with our gutter brake asqueal. where the trestle groan and quiver in the snow where the many shedded level loop and twine so i lead my reckless child from below till we sing the song of roland to the pine. 
with my _tinka tinka tinka tinka tink. [and the axe ha clear the mountain croup and crest. ] so we ride the iron stallion down to drink through the cañons to the water of the west. 
and the tune that mean so much to you alone common tune that make you choke and blow your nose vulgar tune that bring the laugh that bring the groan i can rip your very heartstrings out with those. with the feast and the folly and the fun and the lie and the lust and the drink and the merry play that drop you when you re do to the thought that burn like iron if you think. 
with my _plunka lunka lunka lunka lunk. here s a trifle on account of pleasure past ere the wit that make you win give you eye to see your sin and the heavy repentance at the last. 
let the organ moan her sorrow to the roof i have tell the naked star the grief of man. let the trumpet snare the foeman to the proof i have know defeat and mock it a we run. my bray ye may not alter nor mistake when i stand to jeer the fat soul of thing but the song of lose endeavour that i make be it hide in the twang of the string. 
with my _ta ra rara rara ra ra rrrp. [is it naught to you that hear and pas me by. ] but the word the word be mine when the order move the line and the lean lock rank go roar down to die. 
the grandam of my grandam be the lyre [o the blue below the little fisher hut. ] that the stealer stoop beach ward fill with fire till she bore my iron head and ring gut. by the wisdom of the century i speak to the tune of yestermorn i set the truth i the joy of life unquestioned i the greek i the everlasting wonder song of youth. 
with my _tinka tinka tinka tinka tink. [what d ye lack my noble master. what d ye lack. ] so i draw the world together link by link. yea from delos up to limerick and back. 
the liner she s a lady. 
the liner she s a lady an she never look nor eeds the man o war s er usband an e give er all she need. but oh the little cargo boat that sail the wet sea roun they re just the same a you an me a plyin up an down. 
plyin up an down jenny angin round the yard all the way by fratton tram down to portsmouth ard. anythin for business an we re growin old plyin up an down jenny waitin in the cold. 
the liner she s a lady by the paint upon er face an if she meet an accident they call it sore disgrace. the man o war s er usband and e s always andy by but oh the little cargo boat. they ve get to load or die. 
the liner she s a lady and er route be cut an dry. the man o war s er usband an e always keep beside. but oh the little cargo boat that aven t any man. they ve get to do their business first and make the most they can. 
the liner she s a lady and if a war should come the man o war s er usband and e d bid er stay at home. but oh the little cargo boat that fill with every tide. e d ave to up an fight for them for they be england s pride. 
the liner she s a lady but if she wasn t make there still would be the cargo boat for ome an foreign trade. the man o war s er usband but if we wasn t ere e wouldn t have to fight at all for ome an friend so dear. 
ome an friend so dear jenny angin round the yard all the way by fratton tram down to portsmouth ard. anythin for business an we re growin old ome an friend so dear jenny waitin in the cold. 
mulholland s contract. 
the fear be on the cattle for the gale be on the sea an the pen break up on the low deck an let the creature free an the light go out on the low deck an no one down but me. 
i have be singin to them to keep em quiet there for the low deck be the dangerous requirin constant care an give to me a the strong man though use to drink and swear. 
i see my chance be certain of bein horn or tread for the low deck be pack with steer thick n pea in a pod an more pen break at every roll so i make a contract with god. 
an by the term of the contract a i have read the same if he get me to port alive i would exalt his name an praise his holy majesty till further order come. 
he save me from the cattle an he save me from the sea for they find me tween two drownded one where the roll have land me an a four inch crack on top of my head a crazy a could be. 
but that be do by a stanchion an not by a bullock at all an i lay still for seven week convalessing of the fall an readin the shiny scripture text in the seaman s hospital. 
an i speak to god of our contract an he say to my prayer. i never put on my minister no more than they can bear. so back you go to the cattle boat an preach my gospel there. 
for human life be chancy at any kind of trade but most of all a well you know when the steer be mad afraid. so you go back to the cattle boat an preach em a i ve say. 
they must quit drinkin an swearin they mustn t knife on a blow they must quit gamblin their wage and you must preach it so. for now those boat be more like hell than anything else i know. 
i didn t want to do it for i know what i should get an i want to preach religion handsome an out of the wet but the word of the lord be lie on me an i do what i be set. 
i have be smite an bruisèd a warn would be the case an turn my cheek to the smiter exactly a scripture say. but follow that i knock him down an lead him up to grace. 
an we have preach on sunday whenever the sea be calm an i use no knife nor pistol an i never take no harm for the lord abideth back of me to guide my fight arm. 
an i sign for four pound ten a month and save the money clear an i be in charge of the low deck an i never lose a steer. an i believe in almighty god an i preach his gospel here. 
the skipper say i m crazy but i can prove em wrong for i be in charge of the low deck with all that doth belong which they would not give to a lunatic and the competition so strong. 
anchor song. 
from many invention. 
heh. walk her round. heave ah heave her short again. over snatch her over there and hold her on the pawl. loose all sail and brace your yard aback and full ready jib to pay her off and heave short all. 
well ah fare you well. we can stay no more with you my love down set down your liquor and your girl from off your knee. for the wind ha come to say. you must take me while you may if you d go to mother carey. walk her down to mother carey. oh we re bind to mother carey where she feed her chick at sea. 
heh. walk her round. break ah break it out o that. break our starboard bower out apeak awash and clear. port port she cast with the harbour roil beneath her foot and that s the last o bottom we shall see this year. 
well ah fare you well for we ve get to take her out again take her out in ballast rid light and cargo free. and it s time to clear and quit when the hawser grip the bitt so we ll pay you with the foresheet and a promise from the sea. 
heh. tally on. aft and walk away with her. handsome to the cathead now. o tally on the fall. stop seize and fish and easy on the davit guy. up well up the fluke of her and inboard haul. 
well ah fare you well for the channel wind s take hold of u choke down our voice a we snatch the gasket free. and it s blow up for night and she s drop light on light and she s snort under bonnet for a breath of open sea. 
wheel full and by. but she ll smell her road alone to night. sick she be and harbour sick o sick to clear the land. roll down to brest with the old red ensign over u carry on and thrash her out with all she ll stand. 
well ah fare you well and it s ushant give the door to u whirl like a windmill on the dirty scud to lee. till the last last flicker go from the tumble water row and we re off to mother carey. walk her down to mother carey. oh we re bind for mother carey where she feed her chick at sea. 
the sea wife. 
there dwell a wife by the northern gate and a wealthy wife be she. she breed a breed o rovin men and cast them over sea. 
and some be drown in deep water and some in sight o shore. and word go back to the weary wife and ever she send more. 
for since that wife have gate and gear and hearth and garth and bield she will her son to the white harvest and that be a bitter yield. 
she will her son to the wet plough to ride the horse of tree. and syne her son come home again far spend from out the sea. 
the good wife s son come home again with little into their hand but the lore of men that ha deal with men in the new and naked land. 
but the faith of men that ha brothered men by more than the easy breath and the eye o men that ha read wi men in the open book of death. 
rich be they rich in wonder see but poor in the good o men so what they ha get by the skin o their teeth they sell for their teeth again. 
for whether they lose to the naked skin or win to their heart desire they tell it all to the weary wife that nod beside the fire. 
her hearth be wide to every wind that make the white ash spin. and tide and tide and tween the tide her son go out and in. 
out with great mirth that do desire hazard of trackless way in with content to wait their watch and warm before the blaze. 
and some return by fail light and some in wake dream for she hear the heel of the drip ghost that ride the rough roof beam. 
home they come home from all the port the live and the dead. the good wife s son come home again for her bless on their head. 
hymn before action. 
the earth be full of anger the sea be dark with wrath. the nation in their harness go up against our path. ere yet we loose the legion ere yet we draw the blade jehovah of the thunder lord god of battle aid. 
high lust and froward bear proud heart rebellious brow deaf ear and soul uncaring we seek thy mercy now. the sinner that forswear thee the fool that pass thee by our time be know before thee lord grant u strength to die. 
for those who kneel beside u at altar not thine own who lack the light that guide u lord let their faith atone. if wrong we do to call them by honour bind they come. let not thy wrath befall them but deal to u the blame. 
from panic pride and terror revenge that know no rein light haste and lawless error protect u yet again. cloak thou our undeserving make firm the shudder breath in silence and unswerving to taste thy less death. 
ah mary pierce with sorrow remember reach and save the soul that come to morrow before the god that give. since each be bear of woman for each at utter need true comrade and true foeman madonna intercede. 
e en now their vanguard gather e en now we face the fray a thou didst help our father help thou our host to day. fulfil of sign and wonder in life in death make clear jehovah of the thunder lord god of battle hear. 
to the true romance. 
from many invention. 
thy face be far from this our war our call and counter cry i shall not find thee quick and kind nor know thee till i die. enough for me in dream to see and touch thy garment hem. thy foot have tread so near to god i may not follow them. 
through wantonness if men profess they weary of thy part e en let them die at blasphemy and perish with their art. but we that love but we that prove thine excellence august while we adore discover more thee perfect wise and just. 
since speak word man s spirit stir beyond his belly need what be be thine of fair design in think and craft and deed. each stroke aright of toil and fight that be and that shall be and hope too high wherefore we die ha birth and worth in thee. 
who hold by thee hath heaven in fee to gild his dross thereby and knowledge sure that he endure a child until he die for to make plain that man s disdain be but new beauty s birth for to posse in loneliness the joy of all the earth. 
a thou didst teach all lover speech and life all mystery so shalt thou rule by every school till love and long die who wast or yet the light be set a whisper in the void who shalt be sing through planet young when this be clean destroy. 
beyond the bound our star round across the press dark the child wise of out sky look hitherward and mark a light that shift a glare that drift rekindle thus and thus not all forlorn for thou hast bear strange tale to them of u. 
time hath no tide but must abide the servant of thy will. tide hath no time for to thy rhyme the range star stand still regent of sphere that lock our fear our hope invisible oh twas certes at thy decree we fashion heaven and hell. 
pure wisdom hath no certain path that lack thy morning eyne and captain bold by thee control most like to god design. thou art the voice to kingly boy to lift them through the fight and comfortress of unsuccess to give the dead good night. 
a veil to draw twixt god his law and man s infirmity a shadow kind to dumb and blind the shamble where we die. a sum to trick th arithmetic too base of league odds the spur of trust the curb of lust thou handmaid of the god. 
oh charity all patiently abide wrack and scaith. oh faith that meet ten thousand cheat yet drop no jot of faith. devil and brute thou dost transmute to high lordly show who art in sooth that lovely truth the careless angel know. 
thy face be far from this our war our call and counter cry i may not find thee quick and kind nor meet thee till i die. 
yet may i look with heart unshook on blow bring home or miss yet may i hear with equal ear the clarion down the list. yet set my lance above mischance and ride the barriere oh hit or miss how little ti my lady be not there. 
the flower. 
to our private taste there be always something a little exotic almost artificial in song which under an english aspect and dress be yet so manifestly the product of other sky. they affect u like translation. the very fauna and flora be alien remote. the dog s tooth violet be but an ill substitute for the rathe primrose nor can we ever believe that the wood robin sing a sweetly in april a the english thrush. the athenæum. 
buy my english posy kent and surrey may violet of the undercliff wet with channel spray. cowslip from a devon combe midland furze afire buy my english posy and i ll sell your heart desire. 
buy my english posy. you that scorn the may win t you greet a friend from home half the world away. green against the draggle drift faint and frail and first buy my northern blood root and i ll know where you be nurse. robin down the log road whistle come to me spring ha find the maple grove the sap be run free. all the wind o canada call the plough rain. take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s to match your need. buy a tuft of royal heath buy a bunch of weed white a sand of muysenberg spin before the gale buy my heath and lily and i ll tell you whence you hail. under hot constantia broad the vineyard lie throne and thorned the ache berg prop the speckle sky slow below the wynberg fir trail the tilt wain take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. you that will not turn buy my hot wood clematis buy a frond o fern gather where the erskine leap down the road to lorne buy my christmas creeper and i ll say where you be bear. west away from melbourne dust holiday begin they that mock at paradise woo at cora lynn through the great south otway gum sing the great south main take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s your choice unsold. buy a blood red myrtle bloom buy the kowhai s gold fling for gift on taupo s face sign that spring be come buy my cling myrtle and i ll give you back your home. broom behind the windy town. pollen o the pine bell bird in the leafy deep where the ratas twine fern above the saddle bow flax upon the plain take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. ye that have your own buy them for a brother s sake overseas alone. weed ye trample underfoot flood his heart abrim bird ye never heed oh she call his dead to him. far and far our home be set round the seven sea. woe for u if we forget we that hold by these. unto each his mother beach bloom and bird and land master of the seven sea oh love and understand. 
the last rhyme of true thomas. 
the king ha call for priest and cup the king ha take spur and blade to dub true thomas a belt knight and all for the sake o the song he make. 
they have seek him high they have seek him low they have seek him over down and lea. they have find him by the milk white thorn that guard the gate o faerie. 
twas bend beneath and blue above their eye be hold that they might not see the kine that graze between the know oh they be the queen o faerie. 
now cease your song the king he say oh cease your song and get you dight to vow your vow and watch your arm for i will dub you a belt knight. 
for i will give you a horse o pride wi blazon and spur and page and squire. wi keep and tail and seizin and law and land to hold at your desire. 
true thomas smile above his harp and turn his face to the naked sky where blow before the wastrel wind the thistle down she float by. 
i ha vow my vow in another place and bitter oath it be on me i ha watch my arm the lee long night where five score fight men would flee. 
my lance be tip o the hammer flame my shield be beat o the moonlight cold. and i win my spur in the middle world a thousand fathom beneath the mould. 
and what should i make wi a horse o pride and what should i make wi a sword so brown but spill the ring o the gentle folk and flyte my kin in the fairy town. 
and what should i make wi blazon and belt wi keep and tail and seizin and fee and what should i do wi page and squire that be a king in my own countrie. 
for i send east and i send west and i send far a my will may flee by dawn and dusk and the drink rain and syne my sending return to me. 
they come wi news of the groanin earth they come wi news o the roarin sea wi word of spirit and ghost and flesh and man that s mazed among the three. 
the king he bite his nether lip and smite his hand upon his knee. by the faith o my soul true thomas he say ye waste no wit in courtesie. 
a i desire unto my pride can i make earl by three and three to run before and ride behind and serve the son o my body. 
and what care i for your row foot earl or all the son o your body. before they win to the pride o name i trow they all ask leave o me. 
for i make honour wi muckle mouth a i make shame wi mincin foot to sing wi the priest at the market cross or run wi the dog in the naked street. 
and some they give me the good red gold and some they give me the white money and some they give me a clout o meal for they be people o low degree. 
and the song i sing for the count gold the same i sing for the white money but best i sing for the clout o meal that simple people give me. 
the king cast down a silver groat a silver groat o scot money if i come with a poor man s dole he say true thomas will ye harp to me. 
whenas i harp to the child small they press me close on either hand. and who be you true thomas say that you should ride while they must stand. 
light down light down from your horse o pride i trow ye talk too loud and hie and i will make you a triple word and syne if ye dare ye shall noble me. 
he ha light down from his horse o pride and set his back against the stone. now guard you well true thomas say ere i rax your heart from your breast bone. 
true thomas play upon his harp the fairy harp that couldna lee and the first least word the proud king hear it harpit the salt tear out o his ee. 
oh i see the love that i lose long syne i touch the hope that i may not see and all that i do o hide shame like little snake they hiss at me. 
the sun be lose at noon at noon. the dread o doom ha grippit me. true thomas hide me under your cloak god wot i m little fit to dee. 
twas bend beneath and blue above twas open field and run flood where hot on heath and dyke and wall the high sun warm the adder s brood. 
lie down lie down true thomas say. the god shall judge when all be do. but i will bring you a good word and lift the cloud that i lay on. 
true thomas play upon his harp that birl and brattle to his hand and the next least word true thomas make it garred the king take horse and brand. 
oh i hear the tread o the fight men i see the sun on splent and spear. i mark the arrow outen the fern. that fly so low and sing so clear. 
advance my standard to that war and bid my good knight prick and ride. the gled shall watch a fierce a fight a e er be fight on the border side. 
twas bend beneath and blue above twas nod grass and naked sky where ring up the wastrel wind the eyas stoop upon the pye. 
true thomas sigh above his harp and turn the song on the midmost string. and the last least word true thomas make he harpit his dead youth back to the king. 
now i be prince and i do well to love my love withouten fear. to walk wi man in fellowship and breathe my horse behind the deer. 
my hound they bay unto the death the buck ha couch beyond the burn my love she wait at her window to wash my hand when i return. 
for that i live be i content. oh. i have see my true love s eye. to stand wi adam in eden glade and run in the wood o paradise. 
twas nod grass and naked sky twas blue above and bend below where check against the wastrel wind the red deer bell to call the doe. 
true thomas lay his harp away and louted low at the saddle side. he ha take stirrup and hauden rein and set the king on his horse o pride. 
sleep ye or wake true thomas say that sit so still that muse so long. sleep ye or wake. till the latter sleep i trow ye ll not forget my song. 
i ha harpit a shadow out o the sun to stand before your face and cry. i ha arm the earth beneath your heel and over your head i ha dusk the sky. 
i ha harpit ye up to the throne o god i ha harpit your secret soul in three. i ha harpit ye down to the hinge o hell and ye would make a knight o me. 
the story of ung. 
once on a glitter ice field age and age ago ung a maker of picture fashion an image of snow. fashion the form of a tribesman gaily he whistle and sing work the snow with his finger. read ye the story of ung. 
please be his tribe with that image come in their hundred to scan handle it smelt it and grunt. verily this be a man. thus do we carry our lance thus be a war belt sling. ay it be even a we be. glory and honour to ung. 
late he picture an aurochs late he picture a bear picture the sabre tooth tiger drag a man to his lair picture the mountainous mammoth hairy abhorrent alone out of the love that he bore them scribe them clearly on bone. 
swift come the tribe to behold them peer and push and still men of the berg batter beach men of the boulder hatch hill hunter and fisher and trapper presently whisper low. yea they be like and it may be. but how doe the picture man know. 
ung hath he sleep with the aurochs watch where the mastodon roam. speak on the ice with the bow head follow the sabre tooth home. nay. these be toy of his fancy. if he have cheat u so how be there truth in his image the man that he fashion of snow. 
wroth be that maker of picture hotly he answer the call. hunter and fisher and trapper child and fool be ye all. look at the beast when ye hunt them. swift from the tumult he break run to the cave of his father and tell him the shame that they speak. 
and the father of ung give answer that be old and wise in the craft maker of picture aforetime he lean on his lance and laugh. if they could see a thou seest they would do what thou hast do and each man would make him a picture and what would become of my son. 
there would be no pelt of the reindeer fling down at thy cave for a gift nor dole of the oily timber that strand with the baltic drift. no store of well drill needle nor ouches of amber pale. no new cut tongue of the bison nor meat of the strand whale. 
_thou hast not toil at the fish when the sodden trammel freeze nor work the war boat outward through the rush of the rock stake sea yet they bring thee fish and plunder full meal and an easy bed and all for the sake of thy picture. and ung hold down his head. 
_thou hast not stand to the aurochs when the red snow reek of the fight. men have no time at the houghing to count his curl aright. and the heart of the hairy mammoth thou sayest they do not see yet they save it whole from the beach and broil the best for thee. 
and now do they press to thy picture with open mouth and eye and a little gift in the doorway and the praise no gift can buy. but sure they have doubt thy picture and that be a grievous stain son that can see so clearly return them their gift again. 
and ung look down at his deerskin their broad shell tasselled band and ung draw downward his mitten and look at his naked hand. and he gloved himself and depart and he hear his father behind. son that can see so clearly rejoice that thy tribe be blind. 
straight on that glitter ice field by the cave of the lose dordogne ung a maker of picture fell to his scribe on bone even to mammoth edition. gaily he whistle and sing bless his tribe for their blindness. heed ye the story of ung. 
the three decker. 
the three volume novel be extinct. 
full thirty foot she tower from waterline to rail. it cost a watch to steer her and a week to shorten sail. but spite all modern notion i find her first and best the only certain packet for the island of the bless. 
fair hold our breeze behind u twas warm with lover prayer. we d steal will for ballast and a crew of miss heir. they ship a able bastard till the wicked nurse confess and they work the old three decker to the island of the bless. 
carambas and serapés we wave to every wind we smoke good corpo bacco when our sweetheart prove unkind. with maid of matchless beauty and parentage unguessed we also take our manner to the island of the bless. 
we ask no social question we pump no hide shame we never talk obstetrics when the little strange come. we leave the lord in heaven we leave the fiend in hell. we weren t exactly yussufs but zuleika didn t tell. 
no moral doubt assail u so when the port we near the villain get his flog at the gangway and we cheer. twas fiddle in the foc sle twas garland on the mast for every one get marry and i go ashore at last. 
i leave em all in couple akissing on the deck. i leave the lover love and the parent sign check. in endless english comfort by county folk caress i leave the old three decker at the island of the bless. 
that route be bar to steamer. you ll never lift again our purple paint headland or the lordly keep of spain. they re just beyond the skyline howe er so far you cruise in a ram you damn you liner with a brace of buck screw. 
swing round your ache search light twill show no haven s peace. ay blow your shriek siren to the deaf gray beard sea. boom out the drip oil bag to skin the deep s unrest but you aren t a knot the near to the island of the bless. 
and when you re thresh cripple with break bridge and rail on a drogue of dead conviction to hold you head to gale calm a the fly dutchman from truck to taffrail dress you ll see the old three decker for the island of the bless. 
you ll see her tiering canvas in sheet silver spread. you ll hear the long draw thunder neath her leap figure head. while far so far above you her tall poop lantern shine unvexed by wind or weather like the candle round a shrine. 
hull down hull down and under she dwindle to a speck with noise of pleasant music and dance on her deck. all s well all s well aboard her she s drop you far behind with a scent of old world rose through the fog that tie you blind. 
her crew be babe or madman. her port be all to make. you re man by truth and science and you steam for steam s sake. well tinker up your engine you know your business best she s take tire people to the island of the bless. 
an american. 
the american spirit speak. 
if the lead striker call it a strike or the paper call it a war they know not much what i be like nor what he be my avatar. 
through many road by me possess he shamble forth in cosmic guise. he be the jester and the jest and he the text himself apply. 
the celt be in his heart and hand the gaul be in his brain and nerve. where cosmopolitanly plan he guard the redskin s dry reserve. 
his easy unswept hearth he lend from labrador to guadeloupe. till elbow out by sloven friend he camp at sufferance on the stoop. 
calm eye he scoff at sword and crown or panic blind stab and slay. blatant he bid the world bow down or cringe beg a crumb of praise. 
or sombre drink at mine and mart he dub his dreary brother king. his hand be black with blood. his heart leap a a babe s at little thing. 
but through the shift of mood and mood mine ancient humour save him whole the cynic devil in his blood that bid him mock his hurry soul. 
that bid him flout the law he make that bid him make the law he flout till daze by many doubt he wake the drum gun that have no doubt. 
that check him foolish hot and fond that chuckle through his deep ire that gild the slough of his despond but dim the goal of his desire. 
inopportune shrill accent the acrid asiatic mirth that leaf him careless mid his dead the scandal of the elder earth. 
how shall he clear himself how reach our bar or weigh defence prefer a brother hedge with alien speech and lack all interpreter. 
which knowledge vex him a space. but while reproof around him ring he turn a keen untroubled face home to the instant need of thing. 
enslave illogical elate he greet th embarrass god nor fear to shake the iron hand of fate or match with destiny for beer. 
lo. imperturbable he rule unkempt disreputable vast and in the teeth of all the school i i shall save him at the last. 
the mary gloster. 
i ve pay for your sick fancy. i ve humour your cracked whim dick it s your daddy die. you ve get to listen to him. good for a fortnight be i. the doctor tell you. he lie. i shall go under by morning and put that nurse outside. never see death yet dickie. well now be your time to learn and you ll wish you hold my record before it come to your turn. not count the line and the foundry the yard and the village too i ve make myself and a million. but i m damn if i make you. master at two and twenty and marry at twenty three ten thousand men on the pay roll and forty freighter at sea. fifty year between em and every year of it fight and now i m sir anthony gloster die a baronite. for i lunch with his royal ighness what be it the paper a have. not least of our merchant prince. dickie that s me your dad. i didn t begin with asking. i take my job and i stick. and i take the chance they wouldn t an now they re call it luck. lord what boat i ve handle rotten and leaky and old. run em or open the bilge cock precisely a i be tell. grub that ud bind you crazy and crew that ud turn you gray and a big fat lump of insurance to cover the risk on the way. the others they duresn t do it. they say they value their life. they ve serve me since a skipper. i go and i take my wife. over the world i drive em marry at twenty three and your mother save the money and make a man of me. i be content to be master but she say there be good behind. she take the chance i wouldn t and i follow your mother blind. she egg me to borrow the money an she help me clear the loan when we buy half share in a cheap un and hoist a flag of our own. patch and coal on credit and live the lord know how we start the red ox freighter we ve eight and thirty now. and those be the day of clipper and the freight be clipper freight and we know we be make our fortune but she die in macassar strait by the little paternoster a you come to the union bank and we drop her in fourteen fathom. i prick it off where she sink. owner we be full owner and the boat be christen for her and she die out there in childbed. my heart how young we be. so i go on a spree round java and well nigh run her ashore but your mother come and warn me and i wouldn t liquor no more. strict i stick to my business afraid to stop or i d think save the money. she warn me. and let the other men drink. and i meet mccullough in london. i d save five undred then. and tween u we start the foundry three forge and twenty men. cheap repair for the cheap un. it pay and the business grow for i buy me a steam lathe patent and that be a gold mine too. cheap to build em than buy em i say but mccullough he shy and we waste a year in talk before we move to the clyde. and the line be all begin and we all of u start fair build our engine like house and stay the boiler square. but mccullough e want cabin with marble and maple and all and brussels and utrecht velvet and bath and a social hall and pipe for closet all over and cut the frame too light. but mccullough he die in the sixty and well i m die to night. i know i know what be come when we bid on the byfleet s keel. they piddle and piffle with iron. i d give my order for steel. steel and the first expansion. it pay i tell you it pay when we come with our nine knot freighter and collar the long run trade. and they ask me how i do it and i give em the scripture text you keep your light so shin a little in front o the next. they copy all they could follow but they couldn t copy my mind and i leave em sweat and steal a year and a half behind. then come the armour contract but that be mccullough s side. he be always best in the foundry but good perhaps he die. i go through his private paper. the note be plain than print. and i m no fool to finish if a man ll give me a hint. i remember his widow be angry. so i saw what the drawing mean and i start the six inch roller and it pay me sixty per cent. sixty per cent with failure and more than twice we could do and a quarter million to credit and i save it all for you. i think it doesn t matter you seem to favour your ma but you re near forty than thirty and i know the kind you be. harrer an trinity college. i ought to ha send you to sea but i stand you an education an what have you do for me. the thing i know be proper you wouldn t thank me to give and the thing i know be rotten you say be the way to live. for you muddle with book and picture an china an etchin s an fan and your room at college be beastly more like a whore s than a man s till you marry that thin flank woman a white and a stale a a bone and she give you your social nonsense. but where s that kid o your own. i ve see your carriage block the half of the cromwell road but never the doctor s brougham to help the missus unload. so there isn t even a grandchild an the gloster family s do. not like your mother she isn t. she carry her freight each run. but they die the pore little beggar. at sea she have em they die. only you an you stand it. you haven t stand much beside weak a liar and idle and mean a a collier s whelp nose for scrap in the galley. no help my son be no help. so he get three undred thousand in trust and the interest pay. i wouldn t give it you dickie you see i make it in trade. you re save from soil your finger and if you have no child it all come back to the business. gad win t your wife be wild. call and call in her carriage her andkerchief up to er eye. daddy. dear daddy s dyin. and do her best to cry. grateful. oh yes i m grateful but keep er away from here. your mother ud never ha stand er and anyhow woman be queer. there s woman will say i ve marry a second time. not quite. but give pore aggie a hundred and tell her your lawyer ll fight. she be the best o the boil you ll meet her before it end. i m in for a row with the mother i ll leave you settle my friend. for a man he must go with a woman which woman don t understand or the sort that say they can see it they aren t the marry brand. but i want to speak o your mother that s lady gloster still. i m go to up and see her without it s hurt the will. here. take your hand off the bell pull. five thousand s wait for you if you ll only listen a minute and do a i bid you do. they ll try to prove me a loony and if you bungle they can. and i ve only you to trust to. o god why ain t he a man. there s some waste money on marble the same a mccullough try marble and mausoleum but i call that sinful pride. there s some ship body for burial we ve carry em solder and pack. down in their will they write it and nobody call them crack. but me i ve too much money and people might. all my fault. it come o hop for grandson and buy that wokin vault. i m sick o the ole dam business. i m go back where i come. dick you re the son o my body and you ll take charge o the same. i m go to lie by your mother ten thousand mile away and they ll want to send me to woking. and that s where you ll earn your pay. i ve think it out on the quiet the same a it ought to be do quiet and decent and proper an here s your order my son. you know the line. you don t though. you write to the board and tell your father s death ha upset you an you re goin to cruise for a spell an you d like the mary gloster i ve hold her ready for this they ll put her in work order an you ll take her out a she be. yes it be money idle when i patch her and put her aside. thank god i can pay for my fancy. the boat where your mother die by the little paternoster a you come to the union bank we drop her i think i tell you and i prick it off where she sink. [tiny she look on the grate that oily treacly sea ] hundred and eighteen east remember and south just three. easy bearing to carry three south three to the dot. but i give mcandrews a copy in case of die or not. and so you ll write to mcandrews he s chief of the maori line. they ll give him leave if you ask em and say it s business o mine. i build three boat for the maori an very well please they be an i ve know mac since the fifty and mac know me and her. after the first stroke warn me i send him the money to keep against the time you d claim it committin your dad to the deep. for you be the son o my body and mac be my old friend i ve never ask im to dinner but he ll see it out to the end. stiff neck glasgow beggar i ve hear he s pray for my soul but he couldn t lie if you pay him and he d starve before he steal. he ll take the mary in ballast you ll find her a lively ship. and you ll take sir anthony gloster that go on his wed trip lash in our old deck cabin with all three port hole wide the kick o the screw beneath him and the round blue sea outside. sir anthony gloster s carriage our ouse flag flyin free ten thousand men on the pay roll and forty freighter at sea. he make himself and a million but this world be a fleetin show and he ll go to the wife of be bosom the same a he ought to go. by the heel of the paternoster there isn t a chance to mistake and mac ll pay you the money a soon a the bubble break. five thousand for six week cruise the stanchest freighter afloat and mac he ll give you your bonus the minute i m out o the boat. he ll take you round to macassar and you ll come back alone. he know what i want o the mary. i ll do what i please with my own. your mother ud call it wasteful but i ve seven and thirty more. i ll come in my private carriage and bid it wait at the door. for my son e be never a credit. e muddle with book and art and e live on sir anthony s money and e break sir anthony s heart. there isn t even a grandchild and the gloster family s do the only one you leave me o mother the only one. harrer an trinity college. me slavin early an late an he think i m dyin crazy and you re in macassar strait. flesh o my flesh my dearie for ever an ever amen that first stroke come for a warn. i ought to ha go to you then but cheap repair for a cheap un the doctor say i d do. mary why didn t you warn me. i ve allus heed to you excep i know about woman. but you be a spirit now. an wife they be only woman and i be a man. that s how. an a man e must go with a woman a you could not understand. but i never talk em secret. i pay em out o hand. thank gawd i can pay for my fancy. now what s five thousand to me for a berth off the paternoster in the haven where i would be. i believe in the resurrection if i read my bible plain but i wouldn t trust em at wokin. we re safe at sea again. for the heart it shall go with the treasure go down to the sea in ship. i m sick of the hire woman i ll kiss my girl on her lip. i ll be content with my fountain i ll drink from my own well and the wife of my youth shall charm me an the rest can go to hell. dickie he will that s certain. i ll lie in our standin bed an mac ll take her in ballast and she trim best by the head. down by the head an sinkin. her fire be draw and cold and the water s splashin hollow on the skin of the empty hold churn an choke and chuckle quiet and scummy and dark full to her low hatch and risin steady. hark. that be the after bulkhead. she s flood from stem to stern. never see death yet dickie. well now be your time to learn. 
sestina of the tramp royal. 
speakin in general i ave try em all the appy road that take you o er the world. speakin in general i ave find them good for such a cannot use one bed too long but must get ence the same a i ave do an go observin matter till they die. 
what do it matter where or ow we die so long a we ve our ealth to watch it all the different way that different thing be do an men an woman lovin in this world takin our chance a they come along an when they ain t pretendin they be good. 
in cash or credit no it ain t no good. you ave to ave the abit or you d die unless you live your life but one day long nor didn t prophesy nor fret at all but draw your tucker some ow from the world an never bother what you might ha do. 
but gawd what thing be they i aven t do. i ve turn my and to most an turn it good in various situation round the world for im that doth not work must surely die. but that s no reason man should labour all be life on one same shift. life s none so long. 
therfore from job to job i ve move along. pay couldn t old me when my time be do for something in my ead upset me all till i ad drop whatever twas for good an out at sea be eld the dock light die an meet my mate the wind that tramp the world. 
it s like a book i think this bloomin world which you can read and care for just so long but presently you feel that you will die unless you get the page you re readin do an turn another likely not so good. but what you re after be to turn em all. 
gawd bless this world. whatever she ath do excep when awful long i ve find it good. so write before i die e like it all. 
barrack room ballad. 
when omer smite be bloomin lyre he d eard men sing by land an sea. an what he think e might require e go an take the same a me. 
the market girl an fisherman the shepherd an the sailor too they eard old song turn up again but kep it quiet same a you. 
they know e steal. e know they know. they didn t tell nor make a fuss but wink at omer down the road an e wink back the same a u. 
back to the army again. 
i m ere in a ticky ulster an a break billycock at a layin on to the sergeant i don t know a gun from a bat. my shirt s doin duty for jacket my sock s stickin out o my boot an i m learnin the damn old goose step along o the new recruit. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. don t look so ard for i aven t no card i m back to the army again. 
i do my six year service. er majesty sez. good day you ll please to come when you re ring for an ere s your ole back pay. an fourpence a day for baccy an bloomin gen rous too. an now you can make your fortune the same a your orf cer do. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. ow do i learn to do right about turn. i m back to the army again. 
a man o four an twenty that asn t learn of a trade beside reserve agin him e d good be never make. i try my luck for a quarter an that be enough for me an i think of er majesty s barricks an i think i d go an see. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. tisn t my fault if i dress when i alt i m back to the army again. 
the sergeant arst no question but e wink the other eye e sez to me shun. an i shunt the same a in day go by. for e saw the set o my shoulder an i couldn t elp oldin straight when me an the other rookie come under the barrick gate. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo would ha think i could carry an port. i m back to the army again. 
i take my bath an i wallered for gawd i need it so. i smelt the smell o the barricks i eard the bugle go. i eard the foot on the gravel the foot o the men what drill an i sez to my flutterin eartstrings i sez to em peace be still. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo say i know when the jumner be due. i m back to the army again. 
i carry my slop to the tailor. i sez to im none o your lip. you tight em over the shoulder an loose em over the ip for the set o the tunic s orrid. an e sez to me strike me dead but i think you be use to the business. an so e do what i say. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. rather too free with my fancy. wot me. i m back to the army again. 
next week i ll ave em fit. i ll buy me a walkin cane. they ll let me free o the barricks to walk on the hoe again in the name o william parson that use to be edward clay an any pore beggar that want it can draw my fourpence a day. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. out o the cold an the rain sergeant out o the cold an the rain. 
oo s there. a man that s too good to be lose you a man that be andled an make a man that will pay what e cost you in learnin the others their trade parade. you re droppin the pick o the army because you don t elp em remain but drive em to cheat to get out o the street an back to the army again. 
bird of prey march. 
march. the mud be cakin good about our trousies. front. eye front an watch the colour casin s drip. front. the face of the woman in the ouse ain t the kind o thing to take aboard the ship. 
cheer. an we ll never march to victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
wheel. oh keep your touch. we re goin round a corner. time. mark time an let the men be ind u close. lord. the transport s full an alf our lot not on er cheer o cheer. we re go off where no one know. 
march. the devil s none so black a e be paint. cheer. we ll ave some fun before we re put away. alt an and er out a woman s go and faint. cheer. get on gawd elp the marry men to day. 
hoi. come up you ungry beggar to yer sorrow. ear them say they want their tea an want it quick. you win t have no mind for slinger not to morrow no. you ll put the tween deck stave out bein sick. 
alt. the marry kit a all to go before u. course it s block the bloomin gangway up again. cheer o cheer the orse guard watchin tender o er u keepin u since eight this mornin in the rain. 
stick in eavy marchin order sop and wringin sick before our time to watch er eave an fall ere s your appy ome at last an stop your singin. alt. fall in along the troop deck. silence all. 
cheer. for we ll never live to see no bloomin victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. one cheer more. the jackal an the kite ave an ealthy appetite an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. the eagle an the crow they be waitin ever so an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. yes the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
soldier an sailor too. 
a i be spittin into the ditch aboard o the crocodile i seed a man on a man o war get up in the reg lars style. e be scrapin the paint from off of er plate an i sez to im oo be you. sez e i m a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. now be work begin at gawd know when and be work be never through. e isn t one o the reg lar line nor e isn t one of the crew. e s a kind of a giddy harumfrodite soldier an sailor too. 
an after i meet im all over the world a doin all kind of thing like landin isself with a gatlin gun to talk to them eathen king. e sleep in an ammick instead of a cot an e drill with the deck on a slew an e sweat like a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. for there isn t a job on the top o the earth the beggar don t know nor do. you can leave im at night on a bald man s ead to paddle be own canoe. e s a sort of a bloomin cosmopolouse soldier an sailor too. 
we ve fight em on trooper we ve fight em in dock an drink with em in betweens when they call u the seasick scull ry maid an we call em the as marine. but when we be down for a double fatigue from woolwich to bernardmyo we send for the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they think for emselves an they steal for emselves and they never ask what s to do but they re camp an feed an they re up an feed before our bugle s blow. ho. they ain t no limpin procrastitutes soldier an sailor too. 
you may say we be fond of an arness cut or ootin in barrick yard or startin a board school mutiny along o the onion guard. but once in a while we can finish in style for the end of the earth to view the same a the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they come of our lot they be brother to u. they be beggar we d meet an know. yes barrin an inch in the chest an the arm they be double o me an you. for they weren t no special chrysanthemum soldier an sailor too. 
to take your chance in the thick of a rush with fire all about be nothing so bad when you ve cover to and an leave an likin to shout. but to stand an be still to the birken ead drill be a damn tough bullet to chew an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. their work be do when it adn t begin. they be young nor me an you. their choice it be plain between drownin in eaps an bein mash by the screw so they stand an be still to the birken ead drill soldier an sailor too. 
we re most of u liar we re arf of u thief an the rest be a rank a can be but once in a while we can finish in style. which i ope it win t appen to me. but it make you think good o you an your friend an the work you may ave to do when you think o the sinkin victorier s jolly soldier an sailor too. now there isn t no room for to say ye don t know they ave prove it plain and true that whether it s widow or whether it s ship victorier s work be to do an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. 
sapper. 
when the water be dry an the earth do appear. it s all one say the sapper. the lord he create the engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
when the flood come along for an extra monsoon twas noah construct the first pontoon to the plan of her majesty s etc. 
but after fatigue in the wet an the sun old noah get drink which he wouldn t ha do if he d train with etc. 
when the tower o babel have mix up men s bat_ some clever civilian be manage that an none of etc. 
when the jew have a fight at the foot of an ill young joshua order the sun to stand still for he be a captain of engineer etc. 
when the child of israel make brick without straw they be learnin the regular work of our corp the work of etc. 
for ever since then if a war they would wage behold u a shinin on history s page first page for etc. 
we lay down their siding an help em entrain an we sweep up their mess through the bloomin campaign in the style of etc. 
they send u in front with a fuse an a mine to blow up the gate that be rush by the line but bend by etc. 
they send u behind with a pick an a spade to dig for the gun of a bullock brigade which ha ask for etc. 
we work under escort in trousies an shirt an the heathen they plug u tail up in the dirt annoy etc. 
we blast out the rock an we shovel the mud we make em good road an they roll down the khud_ report etc. 
we make em their bridge their well an their hut an the telegraph wire the enemy cut an it s blame on etc. 
an when we return an from war we would cease they grudge u adornin the billet of peace which be keep for etc. 
we build em nice barricks they swear they be bad that our colonel be methodist marry or mad insultin etc. 
they haven t no manner nor gratitude too for the more that we help em the le will they do but mock at etc. 
now the line s but a man with a gun in his hand an cavalry s only what horse can stand when help by etc. 
artillery move by the leave o the grind but we be the men that do something all round for we be etc. 
i have state it plain an my argument s thus. it s all one say the sapper. there s only one corp which be perfect that s u. an they call u her majesty s engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
that day. 
it get beyond all order an it get beyond all ope. it get to shammin wound an retirin from the alt. ole company be lookin for the near road to slope. it be just a bloomin knock out an our fault. 
now there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. an i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
we be sick o bein punish an we let em know it too. an a company commander up an it u with a sword an some one shout ook it. an it come to sove ki poo_ an we chuck our rifle from u oh my gawd. 
there be thirty dead an wound on the grind we wouldn t keep no there wasn t more than twenty when the front begin to go. but christ. along the line o flight they cut u up like sheep an that be all we gain by doin so. 
i eard the knife be ind me but i dursn t face my man an i don t know where i go to cause i didn t alt to see till i eard a beggar squealin out for quarter a e run an i think i know the voice an it be me. 
we be idin under bedstead more than arf a march away. we be lyin up like rabbit all about the country side. an the major curse be maker cause e live to see that day an the colonel break be sword acrost an cry. 
we be rotten fore we start we be never disci_plined. we make it out a favour if an order be obey. yes every little drummer ad be right an wrong to mind so we have to pay for teachin an we pay. 
the paper id it andsome but you know the army know. we be put to groomin camel till the regiment withdraw an they give u each a medal for subduin england s foe an i ope you like my song because it s true. 
an there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. but i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
the men that fight at minden. 
a song of instruction. 
the men that fight at minden they be rookie in their time so be them that fight at waterloo. all the ole command yuss from minden to maiwand they be once dam sweep like you. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad for we ll make you soldier yet. 
the men that fight at minden they ad stock beneath their chin six inch igh an more. but fatigue it be their pride and they would not be deny to clean the cook ouse floor. 
the men that fight at minden they ad anarchistic bomb serve to em by name of and grenade. but they get it in the eye. same a you will by an by. when they club their field parade. 
the men that fight at minden they ad button up an down two an twenty dozen of em tell. but they didn t grouse an shirk at an hour s extry work they keep em bright a gold. 
the men that fight at minden they be arm with musketoons also they be drill by alberdiers. i don t know what they be but the sergeant take good care they wash be ind their ear. 
the men that fight at minden they ad ever cash in and which they do not bank nor save but spend it gay an free on their better such a me for the good advice i give. 
the men that fight at minden they be civil yuss they be never didn t talk o right an wrong but they get it with the toe. same a you will get it so. for interrupt song. 
the men that fight at minden they be several other thing which i don t remember clear. but that s the reason why now the six year men be dry the rook will stand the beer. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad and we ll make you soldier yet. 
soldier yet if you ve get it in you all for the sake o the core. soldier yet if we ave to skin you run an get the beer johnny raw johnny raw. ho. run an get the beer johnny raw. 
cholera camp. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp it s bad than forty fight. we re dyin in the wilderness the same a isrulites. it s before u an be ind u an we cannot get away an the doctor s just report we ve ten more to day. 
oh strike your camp an go the bugle s callin the rain be fallin the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. the band s a doin all she know to cheer u. the chaplain s go and pray to gawd to ear u to ear u o lord for it s a kill of u so. 
since august when it start it s be stick to our tail tho they ve ad u out by march an they ve ad u back by rail. but it run a fast a troop train an we can not get away. an the sick list to the colonel make ten more to day. 
there ain t no fun in woman nor there ain t no bite to drink. it s much too wet for shootin we can only march and think. an at evenin down the nullahs_ we can ear the jackal say get up you rotten beggar you ve ten more to day. 
twould make a monkey cough to see our way o doin thing lieutenant takin company an captain takin wing an lance actin sergeant eight file to obey for we ve lot o quick promotion on ten death a day. 
our colonel s white an twitterly e get no sleep nor food but muck about in orspital where nothing doe no good. e send u eaps o comfort all buy from be pay but there aren t much comfort andy on ten death a day. 
our chaplain s get a banjo an a skinny mule e ride an the stuff e say an sing u lord it make u split our side. with be black coat tail a bobbin to ta ra ra boom d ay. e s the proper kind o padre for ten death a day. 
an father victor elps im with our roman catholicks he know an eap of irish song an rummy conjurin trick. an the two they work together when it come to play or pray. so we keep the ball a rollin on ten death a day. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp we ve get it ot an sweet. it ain t no christmas dinner but it s elped an we must eat. we ve go beyond the funkin cause we ve find it doesn t pay an we re rockin round the districk on ten death a day. 
then strike your camp an go the rain be fallin the bugle s callin. the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. an them that do not like it they can lump it an them that can not stand it they can jump it. we ve get to die somewhere some way some ow we might a well begin to do it now. then number one let down the tent pole slow knock out the peg an old the corner so. fold in the fly furl up the rope an stow. oh strike oh strike your camp an go. gawd elp u. 
the lady. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it. i ve rogued an i ve range in my time. i ve ad my pickin o sweet earts an four o the lot be prime. one be an arf caste widow one be a woman at prome one be the wife of a jemadar sais_ [ ] an one be a girl at ome. 
now i aren t no and with the lady for takin em all along you never can say till you ve try em an then you be like to be wrong. there s time when you ll think that you mightn t there s time when you ll know that you might. but the thing you will learn from the yellow an brown they ll elp you an eap with the white. 
i be a young un at oogli shy a a girl to begin. aggie de castrer she make me an aggie be clever a sin. old than me but my first un more like a mother she be show me the way to promotion an pay an i learn about woman from er. 
then i be order to burma actin in charge o bazar an i get me a tiddy live eathen through buyin supply off er pa. funny an yellow an faithful doll in a teacup she be but we live on the square like a true marry pair an i learn about woman from er. 
then we be shift to neemuch. or i might ha be keepin er now. an i take with a shiny she devil the wife of a nigger at mhow. teach me the gipsy folk bolee. [ ] kind o volcano she be for she knife me one night cause i wish she be white and i learn about woman from er. 
then i come ome in the trooper long of a kid o sixteen girl from a convent at meerut the straight i ever ave see. love at first sight be er trouble she didn t know what it be. an i wouldn t do such cause i like er too much but i learn about woman from er. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it an now i must pay for my fun for the more you ave know o the others the le will you settle to one. an the end of it s sittin and thinkin an dreamin hell fire to see. so be warn by my lot. which i know you will not. an learn about woman from me. 
what do the colonel s lady think. nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you get to a man in the case they re like a a row of pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. 
footnote. 
[ ] head groom. 
[ ] slang. 
bill awkins. 
a anybody see bill awkins. now ow in the devil would i know. e s take my girl out walkin an i ve get to tell im so gawd bless im. i ve get to tell im so. 
d yer know what e s like bill awkins. now what in the devil would i care. e s the livin breathin image of an organ grinder s monkey with a pound of grease in be air gawd bless im. an a pound o grease in be air. 
an s pose you meet bill awkins now what in the devil ud ye do. i d open be cheek to be chin strap buckle an bung up be both eye too gawd bless im. an bung up be both eye too. 
look ere where e come bill awkins. now what in the devil will you say. it isn t fit an proper to be fightin on a sunday so i ll pas im the time o day gawd bless im. i ll pas im the time o day. 
the mother lodge. 
there be rundle station master an beazeley of the rail an ackman commissariat an donkin o the jail. an blake conductor sargent our master twice be e with im that keep the europe shop old framjee eduljee. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
we d bola nath accountant an saul the aden jew an din mohammed draughtsman of the survey office too. there be babu chuckerbutty an amir singh the sikh an castro from the fittin shed the roman catholick. 
we adn t good regalia an our lodge be old an bare but we know the ancient landmark an we kep em to a hair. an lookin on it backwards it often strike me thus there ain t such thing a infidel excep per aps it s u. 
for monthly after labour we d all sit down and smoke. we dursn t give no banquits l a brother s caste be break. an man on man get talkin religion an the rest an every man comparin of the god e know the best. 
so man on man get talkin an not a brother stir till mornin wake the parrot an that dam brain fever bird. we d say twas ighly curious an we d all ride ome to bed with mo ammed god an shiva changin picket in our ead. 
full oft on guv ment service this rovin foot ath press an bore fraternal greetin s to the lodge east an west accordin a command from kohat to singapore but i wish that i might see them in my mother lodge once more. 
i wish that i might see them my brother black an brown with the trichies smellin pleasant an the hog darn_[ ] passin down. an the old khansamah[ ] snorin on the bottle khana[ ] floor like a master in good stand with my mother lodge once more. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
footnote. 
[ ] cigar light. 
[ ] butler. 
[ ] pantry. 
follow me ome. 
there be no one like im orse or foot nor any o the gun i know. an because it be so why o course e go an die which be just what the best men do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish up your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the big drum callin follow me follow me ome. 
be mare she neigh the ole day long she paw the ole night through an she win t take er fee cause o waitin for be step which be just what a beast would do. 
be girl she go with a bombardier before er month be through. an the banns be up in church for she s get the beggar hook which be just what a girl would do. 
we fight bout a dog last week it be no more than a round or two. but i strook im cruel ard an i wish i adn t now which be just what a man can t do. 
e be all that i ad in the way of a friend an i ve ad to find one new. but i d give my pay an stripe for to get the beggar back which it s just too late to do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish off your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the fife a crawlin. follow me follow me ome. 
take im away. e s go where the best men go. take im away. an the gun wheel turnin slow. take im away. there s more from the place e come. take im away with the limber an the drum. 
for it s three round blank an follow me an it s thirteen rank an follow me. oh passin the love o woman follow me follow me ome. 
the sergeant s weddin. 
e be warn agin er that s what make im look. she be warn agin im that be why she take. wouldn t ear no reason go an do it blind. we know all about em they ve get all to find. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. gray gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
what s the use o tellin arf the lot she s be. e s a bloomin robber an e keep canteen. ow do e get be buggy. gawd you needn t ask. make be forty gallon out of every cask. 
watch im with be air cut count u filin by win t the colonel praise be pop u lar i ty. we ave score to settle score for more than beer. she s the girl to pay em that be why we re ere. 
see the chaplain thinkin. see the woman smile. twig the marry winkin a they take the aisle. keep your side arm quiet dressin by the band. ho. you oly beggar cough be ind your and. 
now it s do an over ear the organ squeak _voice that breathe o er eden_ ain t she get the cheek. white an laylock ribbon think yourself so fine. i d pray gawd to take yer fore i make yer mine. 
escort to the kerridge wish im luck the brute. chuck the slipper after [pity taint a boot. ] bowin like a lady blushin like a lad oo would say to see em both be rotten bad. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. gray gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
the jacket. 
through the plague of egyp we be chasin arabi gettin down an shovin in the sun. an you might ave call u dirty an you might ha call u dry an you might ave eard u talkin at the gun. but the captain ad be jacket an the jacket it be new. orse gunner listen to my song. an the wettin of the jacket be the proper thing to do nor we didn t keep im wait very long. 
one day they give u order for to shell a sand redoubt loadin down the axle arm with case. but the captain know be dooty an he take the cracker out an he put some proper liquor in it place. an the captain saw the shrapnel. which be six an thirty clear. orse gunner listen to my song. will you draw the weight sez e or will you draw the beer. an we didn t keep im waitin very long. 
for the captain_ etc. 
then we trot gentle not to break the bloomin glass though the arabites ad all their range mark. but we dursn t ardly gallop for the most be bottle bass an we d dream of it since we be disembark. so we fire economic with the shell we ad in and. orse gunner listen to my song. but the beggar under cover ad the impidence to stand an we couldn t keep em waitin very long. 
and the captain_ etc. 
so we finish arf the liquor. an the captain take champagne. an the arabites be shootin all the while. an we leave our wound appy with the empty on the plain an we use the bloomin gun for pro jec tile. we limber up an gallop there be nothin else to do. orse gunner listen to my song. an the battery come a boundin like a boundin kangaroo but they didn t watch u comin very long. 
a the captain_ etc. 
we be goin most extend we be drivin very fine an the arabites be loosin igh an wide till the captain take the glassy with a rattlin right incline an we drop upon their eads the other side. then we give em quarter such a adn t up and cut. orse gunner listen to my song. an the captain stand a limberful of fizzy somethin brutt but we didn t leave it fizz very long. 
for the captain_ etc. 
we might ha be court martialled but it all come out all right when they signal u to join the main command. there be every round expend there be every gunner tight an the captain wave a corkscrew in be and. 
but the captain have be jacket_ etc. 
the eathen. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. e keep be side arm awful. e leaf em all about an then come up the regiment an poke the eathen out. 
all along o dirtiness all along o mess all along o doin thing rather more or le all along of abby nay [ ] kul [ ] and hazar ho [ ] mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. 
the young recruit be aughty e draf s from gawd know where. they bid im show be stockin s an lay be mattress square. e call it bloomin nonsense e doesn t know no more an then up come be company an kick em round the floor. 
the young recruit be ammered e take it very ard. e ang be ead an mutter e sulk about the yard. e talk o cruel tyrant e ll swing for by an bye an the others ear an mock im an the boy go orf to cry. 
the young recruit be silly e think o suicide. e s lose be gutter devil. e asn t get be pride. but day by day they kick im which elps im on a bite till e find isself one mornin with a full an proper kit. 
gettin clear o dirtiness gettin do with mess gettin shut o doin thing rather more or le. not so fond of abby nay kul nor hazar ho learn to keep be rifle an isself jus so. 
the young recruit be appy e throw a chest to suit. you see im grow mustache. you ear im slap be boot. e learn to drop the bloody from every word he sling an e show an ealthy brisket when e strip for bar an ring. 
the cruel tyrant sergeant they watch im arf a year. they watch im with be comrade they watch im with be beer. they watch im with the woman at the regimental dance and the cruel tyrant sergeant send be name along for lance. 
an now e s arf o nothin an all a private yet be room they up an rag im to see what they will get. they rag im low an cunnin each dirty trick they can but e learn to sweat be temper an e learn to know be man. 
an last a colour sergeant a such to be obey e lead be men at cricket e lead em on parade. they see em quick an andy uncommon set an smart an so e talk to orficers which ave the core at eart. 
e learn to do be watchin without it showin plain. e learn to save a dummy an shove im straight again. e learn to check a ranker that s buyin leave to shirk. an e learn to make men like im so they ll learn to like their work. 
an when it come to marchin he ll see their sock be right an when it come to action e show em ow to sight. e know their way of thinkin and just what s in their mind. e feel when they be comin on an when they ve fell be ind. 
e know each talkin corpril that lead a squad astray. e feel be innards eavin be bowel givin way. e see the blue white face all tryin ard to grin an e stand an wait an suffer till it s time to cap em in. 
an now the hugly bullet come peckin through the dust an no one want to face em but every beggar must. so like a man in iron which isn t glad to go they move em off by company uncommon stiff an slow. 
of all be five year schoolin they don t remember much excep the not retreatin the step an keepin touch. it look like teachin waste when they duck an spread an op but if e adn t learn em they d be all about the shop. 
an now it s oo go backward. an now it s oo come on. an now it s get the doolies an now the captain s go. an now it s bloody murder but all the while they ear be voice the same a barrick drill a shepherdin the rear. 
e s just a sick a they be be eart be like to split but e work em work em work em till e feel em take the bite. the rest be oldin steady till the watchful bugle play an e lift em lift em lift em through the charge that win the day. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. the eathen in be blindness must end where e begin but the backbone of the army be the noncommissioned man. 
keep away from dirtiness keep away from mess. don t get into doin thing rather more or le. let s ha do with abby nay kul an hazar ho. mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. 
footnote. 
[ ] not now. 
[ ] to morrow. 
[ ] wait a bite. 
the shut eye sentry. 
sez the junior orderly sergeant to the senior orderly man. our orderly orf cer s hokee mut_ you elp im all you can. for the wine be old and the night be cold an the best we may go wrong so fore e git to the sentry box you pas the word along. 
then it be round. what round. at two of a frosty night e s oldin on by the sergeant s sash but sentry shut your eye. an it s pas. all s well. oh ain t e rockin tight. e ll need an affidavit pretty badly by an bye. 
the moon be white on the barricks the road be white an wide an the orderly orf cer take it all an the ten foot ditch beside. an the corporal pull an the sergeant push an the three they wag along but i d shut my eye in the sentry box so i didn t see nothin wrong. 
though it be round. what round. o corporal old im up. e s usin be cap a it shouldn t be use but sentry shut your eye. an it s pas. all s well. ho shun the foamin cup. e ll need_ etc. 
twas after four in the mornin. we ad to stop the fun an we send im ome on a bullock cart with be belt an stock undo. but we sluice im down an we wash im out an a first class job we make when we save im smart a a bombardier for six o clock parade. 
it ad be round. what round. oh shove im straight again. e s usin be sword for a bicycle but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. e s call me darlin jane. e ll need_ etc. 
the drill be ard an eavy the sky be ot an blue an be eye be wild an be air be wet but be sergeant pull im through. our men be good old trusty they d do it on their ead. but you ought to ave eard em markin time to ide the thing e say. 
for it be right flank wheel. for alt an stand at ease. an leave extend. for centre close. o marker shut your eye. an it be ere sir ere. before the colonel see. so he need affidavit pretty badly by an bye. 
there be two an thirty sergeant there be corp rals forty one there be just nine undred rank an file to swear to a touch o sun. there be me e d kiss in the sentry box. a i ave not tell in my song. but i take my oath which be bible truth i adn t see nothin wrong. 
there s them that s ot an aughty there s them that s cold an ard but there come a night when the best get tight an then turn out the guard. i ve see them ide their liquor in every kind o way but most depend on makin friend with privit thomas a. 
when it be round. what round. e s breathin through be nose. e s reelin rollin roarin ripe but sentry shut your eye. an it s pas. all s well. an that s the way it go. we ll elp im for be mother an e ll elp u by an bye. 
mary pity woman. 
you call yourself a man for all you use to swear an leave me a you can my certain shame to bear. i ear. you do not care you do the bad you know. i eat you grinnin there. ah gawd i love you so. 
nice while it last an now it be over tear out your eart an good bye to your lover. what s the use o grievin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. 
it aren t no false alarm the finish to your fun. you you ave brung the arm an i m the ruin one. an now you ll off an run with some new fool in tow. your eart. you aven t none. ah gawd i love you so. 
when a man be tire there be naught will bind im. all e solemn promise e will shove be ind im. what s the good o prayin for the wrath to strike im. mary pity woman. when the rest be like im. 
what ope for me or it. what s leave for u to do. i ve walk with men a bite but this but this be you. so elp me christ it s true. where can i ide or go. you coward through an through. ah gawd i love you so. 
all the more you give em the le be they for givin. love lie dead an you can not kiss im livin. down the road e lead you there be no returnin. mary pity woman. but you re late in learnin. 
you d like to treat me fair. you can t because we re pore. we d starve. what do i care. we might but this be shore. i want the name no more the name an line to show an not to be an ore. ah gawd i love you so. 
what s the good o pleadin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. sleep on be promise an wake to your sorrow. mary pity woman. for we sail to morrow. 
for to admire. 
the injian ocean set an smile so sof so bright so bloomin blue. there aren t a wave for mile an mile excep the jiggle from the screw. the ship be swep the day be do the bugle s go for smoke an play. an black agin the settin sun the lascar sing _hum deckty hai. [ ]. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
i see the sergeant pitchin quoit i ear the woman laugh an talk i spy upon the quarter deck the orficers an lydies walk. i think about the thing that be an lean an look acrost the sea till spite of all the crowd ship there s no one lef alive but me. 
the thing that be which i ave see in barrick camp an action too i tell them over by myself an sometimes wonder if they re true. for they be odd most awful odd but all the same now they be o er there must be eaps o plenty such an if i wait i ll see some more. 
oh i ave come upon the book an often break a barrick rule an stand beside an watch myself be avin like a bloomin fool. i pay my price for findin out nor never grutched the price i pay but sit in clink without my boot admirin ow the world be make. 
be old a cloud upon the beam an umped above the sea appear old aden like a barrick stave that no one s light for year an year. i pass by that when i begin an i go ome the road i come a time expire soldier man with six year service to be name. 
my girl she say oh stay with me. my mother eld me to er breast. they ve never write none an so they must ave go with all the rest with all the rest which i ave see an find an know an meet along. i cannot say the thing i feel but still i sing my evenin song. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
footnote. 
[ ] i m look out. 
l envoi. 
when earth s last picture be paint and the tube be twist and dry when the old colour have fade and the young critic ha die we shall rest and faith we shall need it lie down for an æon or two till the master of all good workman shall set u to work anew. 
and those that be good shall be happy. they shall sit in a golden chair. they shall splash at a ten league canvas with brush of comet hair. they shall find real saint to draw from magdalene peter and paul. they shall work for an age at a sit and never be tire at all. 
and only the master shall praise u and only the master shall blame. and no one shall work for money and no one shall work for fame. but each for the joy of the work and each in his separate star shall draw the thing a he see it for the god of thing a they be. 
[illustration]. 
* * * * *. 
