the jungle book. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
mowgli s brother hunt song of the seeonee pack kaa s hunt road song of the bandar log tiger. tiger. mowgli s song the white seal lukannon rikki tikki tavi darzee s chant toomai of the elephant shiv and the grasshopper her majesty s servant parade song of the camp animal. 
mowgli s brother. 
now rann the kite bring home the night that mang the bat set free the herd be shut in byre and hut for loose till dawn be we. this be the hour of pride and power talon and tush and claw. oh hear the call. good hunt all that keep the jungle law. night song in the jungle. 
it be seven o clock of a very warm even in the seeonee hill when father wolf wake up from his day s rest scratch himself yawn and spread out his paw one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feel in their tip. mother wolf lay with her big gray nose drop across her four tumble squeal cub and the moon shine into the mouth of the cave where they all live. augrh. say father wolf. it be time to hunt again. he be go to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail cross the threshold and whine. good luck go with you o chief of the wolf. and good luck and strong white teeth go with noble child that they may never forget the hungry in this world. 
it be the jackal tabaqui the dish licker and the wolf of india despise tabaqui because he run about make mischief and tell tale and eat rag and piece of leather from the village rubbish heap. but they be afraid of him too because tabaqui more than anyone else in the jungle be apt to go mad and then he forget that he be ever afraid of anyone and run through the forest bite everything in his way. even the tiger run and hide when little tabaqui go mad for madness be the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature. we call it hydrophobia but they call it dewanee the madness and run. 
enter then and look say father wolf stiffly but there be no food here. 
for a wolf no say tabaqui but for so mean a person a myself a dry bone be a good feast. who be we the gidur log [the jackal people] to pick and choose. he scuttle to the back of the cave where he find the bone of a buck with some meat on it and sit crack the end merrily. 
all thank for this good meal he say lick his lip. how beautiful be the noble child. how large be their eye. and so young too. indeed indeed i might have remember that the child of king be men from the begin. 
now tabaqui know a well a anyone else that there be nothing so unlucky a to compliment child to their face. it please him to see mother and father wolf look uncomfortable. 
tabaqui sit still rejoice in the mischief that he have make and then he say spitefully. 
shere khan the big one ha shift his hunt ground. he will hunt among these hill for the next moon so he ha tell me. 
shere khan be the tiger who live near the waingunga river twenty mile away. 
he ha no right. father wolf begin angrily by the law of the jungle he ha no right to change his quarter without due warn. he will frighten every head of game within ten mile and i i have to kill for two these day. 
his mother do not call him lungri [the lame one] for nothing say mother wolf quietly. he ha be lame in one foot from his birth. that be why he ha only kill cattle. now the villager of the waingunga be angry with him and he ha come here to make our villager angry. they will scour the jungle for him when he be far away and we and our child must run when the grass be set alight. indeed we be very grateful to shere khan. 
shall i tell him of your gratitude. say tabaqui. 
out. snap father wolf. out and hunt with thy master. thou hast do harm enough for one night. 
i go say tabaqui quietly. ye can hear shere khan below in the thicket. i might have save myself the message. 
father wolf listen and below in the valley that run down to a little river he hear the dry angry snarly singsong whine of a tiger who ha catch nothing and doe not care if all the jungle know it. 
the fool. say father wolf. to begin a night s work with that noise. doe he think that our buck be like his fat waingunga bullock. 
h sh. it be neither bullock nor buck he hunt to night say mother wolf. it be man. 
the whine have change to a sort of hum purr that seem to come from every quarter of the compass. it be the noise that bewilder woodcutter and gypsy sleep in the open and make them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger. 
man. say father wolf show all his white teeth. faugh. be there not enough beetle and frog in the tank that he must eat man and on our grind too. 
the law of the jungle which never order anything without a reason forbid every beast to eat man except when he be kill to show his child how to kill and then he must hunt outside the hunt ground of his pack or tribe. the real reason for this be that man kill mean sooner or late the arrival of white men on elephant with gun and hundred of brown men with gong and rocket and torch. then everybody in the jungle suffer. the reason the beast give among themselves be that man be the weak and most defenseless of all live thing and it be unsportsmanlike to touch him. they say too and it be true that man eater become mangy and lose their teeth. 
the purr grow loud and end in the full throated aaarh. of the tiger s charge. 
then there be a howl an untigerish howl from shere khan. he ha miss say mother wolf. what be it. 
father wolf run out a few pace and hear shere khan mutter and mumble savagely a he tumble about in the scrub. 
the fool ha have no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter s campfire and ha burn his foot say father wolf with a grunt. tabaqui be with him. 
something be come uphill say mother wolf twitch one ear. get ready. 
the bush rustle a little in the thicket and father wolf drop with his haunch under him ready for his leap. then if you have be watch you would have see the most wonderful thing in the world the wolf check in mid spring. he make his bind before he saw what it be he be jump at and then he try to stop himself. the result be that he shoot up straight into the air for four or five foot land almost where he leave grind. 
man. he snap. a man s cub. look. 
directly in front of him hold on by a low branch stand a naked brown baby who could just walk a soft and a dimple a little atom a ever come to a wolf s cave at night. he look up into father wolf s face and laugh. 
be that a man s cub. say mother wolf. i have never see one. bring it here. 
a wolf accustom to move his own cub can if necessary mouth an egg without break it and though father wolf s jaw close right on the child s back not a tooth even scratch the skin a he lay it down among the cub. 
how little. how naked and how bold. say mother wolf softly. the baby be push his way between the cub to get close to the warm hide. ahai. he be take his meal with the others. and so this be a man s cub. now be there ever a wolf that could boast of a man s cub among her child. 
i have hear now and again of such a thing but never in our pack or in my time say father wolf. he be altogether without hair and i could kill him with a touch of my foot. but see he look up and be not afraid. 
the moonlight be block out of the mouth of the cave for shere khan s great square head and shoulder be thrust into the entrance. tabaqui behind him be squeak. my lord my lord it go in here. 
shere khan doe u great honor say father wolf but his eye be very angry. what doe shere khan need. 
my quarry. a man s cub go this way say shere khan. it parent have run off. give it to me. 
shere khan have jump at a woodcutter s campfire a father wolf have say and be furious from the pain of his burn foot. but father wolf know that the mouth of the cave be too narrow for a tiger to come in by. even where he be shere khan s shoulder and forepaw be cramp for want of room a a man s would be if he try to fight in a barrel. 
the wolf be a free people say father wolf. they take order from the head of the pack and not from any strip cattle killer. the man s cub be ours to kill if we choose. 
ye choose and ye do not choose. what talk be this of choose. by the bull that i kill be i to stand nose into your dog s den for my fair due. it be i shere khan who speak. 
the tiger s roar fill the cave with thunder. mother wolf shake herself clear of the cub and spring forward her eye like two green moon in the darkness face the blaze eye of shere khan. 
and it be i raksha [the demon] who answer. the man s cub be mine lungri mine to me. he shall not be kill. he shall live to run with the pack and to hunt with the pack. and in the end look you hunter of little naked cub frog eater fish killer he shall hunt thee. now get hence or by the sambhur that i kill. i eat no starve cattle. back thou go to thy mother burn beast of the jungle lame than ever thou camest into the world. go. 
father wolf look on amaze. he have almost forget the day when he win mother wolf in fair fight from five other wolf when she run in the pack and be not call the demon for compliment s sake. shere khan might have face father wolf but he could not stand up against mother wolf for he know that where he be she have all the advantage of the grind and would fight to the death. so he back out of the cave mouth growl and when he be clear he shout. 
each dog bark in his own yard. we will see what the pack will say to this foster of man cub. the cub be mine and to my teeth he will come in the end o bush tail thief. 
mother wolf throw herself down pant among the cub and father wolf say to her gravely. 
shere khan speak this much truth. the cub must be show to the pack. wilt thou still keep him mother. 
keep him. she gasp. he come naked by night alone and very hungry. yet he be not afraid. look he ha push one of my babe to one side already. and that lame butch would have kill him and would have run off to the waingunga while the villager here hunt through all our lair in revenge. keep him. assuredly i will keep him. lie still little frog. o thou mowgli for mowgli the frog i will call thee the time will come when thou wilt hunt shere khan a he ha hunt thee. 
but what will our pack say. say father wolf. 
the law of the jungle lay down very clearly that any wolf may when he marry withdraw from the pack he belong to. but a soon a his cub be old enough to stand on their foot he must bring them to the pack council which be generally hold once a month at full moon in order that the other wolf may identify them. after that inspection the cub be free to run where they please and until they have kill their first buck no excuse be accept if a grow wolf of the pack kill one of them. the punishment be death where the murderer can be find. and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so. 
father wolf wait till his cub could run a little and then on the night of the pack meet take them and mowgli and mother wolf to the council rock a hilltop cover with stone and boulder where a hundred wolf could hide. akela the great gray lone wolf who lead all the pack by strength and cunning lay out at full length on his rock and below him sit forty or more wolf of every size and color from badger color veteran who could handle a buck alone to young black three year old who think they could. the lone wolf have lead them for a year now. he have fall twice into a wolf trap in his youth and once he have be beat and leave for dead. so he know the manner and custom of men. there be very little talk at the rock. the cub tumble over each other in the center of the circle where their mother and father sit and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub look at him carefully and return to his place on noiseless foot. sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he have not be overlook. akela from his rock would cry. ye know the law ye know the law. look well o wolf. and the anxious mother would take up the call. look look well o wolf. 
at last and mother wolf s neck bristle lift a the time come father wolf push mowgli the frog a they call him into the center where he sit laugh and play with some pebble that glisten in the moonlight. 
akela never raise his head from his paw but go on with the monotonous cry. look well. a muffle roar come up from behind the rock the voice of shere khan cry. the cub be mine. give him to me. what have the free people to do with a man s cub. akela never even twitch his ear. all he say be. look well o wolf. what have the free people to do with the order of any save the free people. look well. 
there be a chorus of deep growl and a young wolf in his fourth year fling back shere khan s question to akela. what have the free people to do with a man s cub. now the law of the jungle lay down that if there be any dispute a to the right of a cub to be accept by the pack he must be speak for by at least two member of the pack who be not his father and mother. 
who speak for this cub. say akela. among the free people who speak. there be no answer and mother wolf get ready for what she know would be her last fight if thing come to fight. 
then the only other creature who be allow at the pack council baloo the sleepy brown bear who teach the wolf cub the law of the jungle. old baloo who can come and go where he plea because he eat only nut and root and honey rise upon his hind quarter and grunt. 
the man s cub the man s cub. he say. i speak for the man s cub. there be no harm in a man s cub. i have no gift of word but i speak the truth. let him run with the pack and be enter with the others. i myself will teach him. 
we need yet another say akela. baloo ha speak and he be our teacher for the young cub. who speak besides baloo. 
a black shadow drop down into the circle. it be bagheera the black panther inky black all over but with the panther marking show up in certain light like the pattern of water silk. everybody know bagheera and nobody care to cross his path. for he be a cunning a tabaqui a bold a the wild buffalo and a reckless a the wound elephant. but he have a voice a soft a wild honey drip from a tree and a skin soft than down. 
o akela and ye the free people he purr i have no right in your assembly but the law of the jungle say that if there be a doubt which be not a kill matter in regard to a new cub the life of that cub may be buy at a price. and the law doe not say who may or may not pay that price. be i right. 
good. good. say the young wolf who be always hungry. listen to bagheera. the cub can be buy for a price. it be the law. 
know that i have no right to speak here i ask your leave. 
speak then cry twenty voice. 
to kill a naked cub be shame. besides he may make good sport for you when he be grow. baloo ha speak in his behalf. now to baloo s word i will add one bull and a fat one newly kill not half a mile from here if ye will accept the man s cub accord to the law. be it difficult. 
there be a clamor of score of voice say. what matter. he will die in the winter rain. he will scorch in the sun. what harm can a naked frog do u. let him run with the pack. where be the bull bagheera. let him be accept. and then come akela s deep bay cry. look well look well o wolf. 
mowgli be still deeply interest in the pebble and he do not notice when the wolf come and look at him one by one. at last they all go down the hill for the dead bull and only akela bagheera baloo and mowgli s own wolf be leave. shere khan roar still in the night for he be very angry that mowgli have not be hand over to him. 
ay roar well say bagheera under his whisker for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune or i know nothing of man. 
it be well do say akela. men and their cub be very wise. he may be a help in time. 
truly a help in time of need. for none can hope to lead the pack forever say bagheera. 
akela say nothing. he be think of the time that come to every leader of every pack when his strength go from him and he get feeble and feeble till at last he be kill by the wolf and a new leader come up to be kill in his turn. 
take him away he say to father wolf and train him a befit one of the free people. 
and that be how mowgli be enter into the seeonee wolf pack for the price of a bull and on baloo s good word. 
now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole year and only guess at all the wonderful life that mowgli lead among the wolf because if it be write out it would fill ever so many book. he grow up with the cub though they of course be grow wolf almost before he be a child. and father wolf teach him his business and the mean of thing in the jungle till every rustle in the grass every breath of the warm night air every note of the owl above his head every scratch of a bat s claw a it roost for a while in a tree and every splash of every little fish jump in a pool mean just a much to him a the work of his office mean to a business man. when he be not learn he sit out in the sun and sleep and eat and go to sleep again. when he felt dirty or hot he swim in the forest pool. and when he want honey. baloo tell him that honey and nut be just a pleasant to eat a raw meat. he climb up for it and that bagheera show him how to do. bagheera would lie out on a branch and call come along little brother and at first mowgli would cling like the sloth but afterward he would fling himself through the branch almost a boldly a the gray ape. he take his place at the council rock too when the pack meet and there he discover that if he star hard at any wolf the wolf would be force to drop his eye and so he use to stare for fun. at other time he would pick the long thorn out of the pad of his friend for wolf suffer terribly from thorn and bur in their coat. he would go down the hillside into the cultivate land by night and look very curiously at the villager in their hut but he have a mistrust of men because bagheera show him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hide in the jungle that he nearly walk into it and tell him that it be a trap. he love good than anything else to go with bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest to sleep all through the drowsy day and at night see how bagheera do his kill. bagheera kill right and leave a he felt hungry and so do mowgli with one exception. a soon a he be old enough to understand thing bagheera tell him that he must never touch cattle because he have be buy into the pack at the price of a bull s life. all the jungle be thine say bagheera and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill. but for the sake of the bull that buy thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. that be the law of the jungle. mowgli obey faithfully. 
and he grow and grow strong a a boy must grow who doe not know that he be learn any lesson and who ha nothing in the world to think of except thing to eat. 
mother wolf tell him once or twice that shere khan be not a creature to be trust and that some day he must kill shere khan. but though a young wolf would have remember that advice every hour mowgli forget it because he be only a boy though he would have call himself a wolf if he have be able to speak in any human tongue. 
shere khan be always cross his path in the jungle for a akela grow old and feeble the lame tiger have come to be great friend with the young wolf of the pack who follow him for scrap a thing akela would never have allow if he have dare to push his authority to the proper bound. then shere khan would flat them and wonder that such fine young hunter be content to be lead by a die wolf and a man s cub. they tell me shere khan would say that at council ye dare not look him between the eye. and the young wolf would growl and bristle. 
bagheera who have eye and ear everywhere know something of this and once or twice he tell mowgli in so many word that shere khan would kill him some day. mowgli would laugh and answer. i have the pack and i have thee. and baloo though he be so lazy might strike a blow or two for my sake. why should i be afraid. 
it be one very warm day that a new notion come to bagheera bear of something that he have hear. perhaps ikki the porcupine have tell him. but he say to mowgli when they be deep in the jungle a the boy lay with his head on bagheera s beautiful black skin little brother how often have i tell thee that shere khan be thy enemy. 
a many time a there be nut on that palm say mowgli who naturally could not count. what of it. i be sleepy bagheera and shere khan be all long tail and loud talk like mao the peacock. 
but this be no time for sleep. baloo know it. i know it. the pack know it. and even the foolish foolish deer know. tabaqui ha tell thee too. 
ho. ho. say mowgli. tabaqui come to me not long ago with some rude talk that i be a naked man s cub and not fit to dig pig nut. but i catch tabaqui by the tail and swing him twice against a palm tree to teach him good manner. 
that be foolishness for though tabaqui be a mischief maker he would have tell thee of something that concern thee closely. open those eye little brother. shere khan dare not kill thee in the jungle. but remember akela be very old and soon the day come when he cannot kill his buck and then he will be leader no more. many of the wolf that look thee over when thou wast bring to the council first be old too and the young wolf believe a shere khan ha teach them that a man cub ha no place with the pack. in a little time thou wilt be a man. 
and what be a man that he should not run with his brother. say mowgli. i be bear in the jungle. i have obey the law of the jungle and there be no wolf of ours from whose paw i have not pull a thorn. surely they be my brother. 
bagheera stretch himself at full length and half shut his eye. little brother say he feel under my jaw. 
mowgli put up his strong brown hand and just under bagheera s silky chin where the giant roll muscle be all hide by the glossy hair he come upon a little bald spot. 
there be no one in the jungle that know that i bagheera carry that mark the mark of the collar. and yet little brother i be bear among men and it be among men that my mother die in the cage of the king s palace at oodeypore. it be because of this that i pay the price for thee at the council when thou wast a little naked cub. yes i too be bear among men. i have never see the jungle. they feed me behind bar from an iron pan till one night i felt that i be bagheera the panther and no man s plaything and i break the silly lock with one blow of my paw and come away. and because i have learn the way of men i become more terrible in the jungle than shere khan. be it not so. 
yes say mowgli all the jungle fear bagheera all except mowgli. 
oh thou art a man s cub say the black panther very tenderly. and even a i return to my jungle so thou must go back to men at last to the men who be thy brother if thou art not kill in the council. 
but why but why should any wish to kill me. say mowgli. 
look at me say bagheera. and mowgli look at him steadily between the eye. the big panther turn his head away in half a minute. 
that be why he say shift his paw on the leaf. not even i can look thee between the eye and i be bear among men and i love thee little brother. the others they hate thee because their eye cannot meet thine. because thou art wise. because thou hast pull out thorn from their foot because thou art a man. 
i do not know these thing say mowgli sullenly and he frown under his heavy black eyebrow. 
what be the law of the jungle. strike first and then give tongue. by thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man. but be wise. it be in my heart that when akela miss his next kill and at each hunt it cost him more to pin the buck the pack will turn against him and against thee. they will hold a jungle council at the rock and then and then i have it. say bagheera leap up. go thou down quickly to the men s hut in the valley and take some of the red flower which they grow there so that when the time come thou mayest have even a strong friend than i or baloo or those of the pack that love thee. get the red flower. 
by red flower bagheera mean fire only no creature in the jungle will call fire by it proper name. every beast life in deadly fear of it and invent a hundred way of describe it. 
the red flower. say mowgli. that grow outside their hut in the twilight. i will get some. 
there speak the man s cub say bagheera proudly. remember that it grow in little pot. get one swiftly and keep it by thee for time of need. 
good. say mowgli. i go. but art thou sure o my bagheera he slip his arm around the splendid neck and look deep into the big eye art thou sure that all this be shere khan s do. 
by the break lock that free me i be sure little brother. 
then by the bull that buy me i will pay shere khan full tale for this and it may be a little over say mowgli and he bound away. 
that be a man. that be all a man say bagheera to himself lie down again. oh shere khan never be a black hunt than that frog hunt of thine ten year ago. 
mowgli be far and far through the forest run hard and his heart be hot in him. he come to the cave a the even mist rise and draw breath and look down the valley. the cub be out but mother wolf at the back of the cave know by his breathe that something be trouble her frog. 
what be it son. she say. 
some bat s chatter of shere khan he call back. i hunt among the plow field tonight and he plunge downward through the bush to the stream at the bottom of the valley. there he check for he hear the yell of the pack hunt hear the bellow of a hunt sambhur and the snort a the buck turn at bay. then there be wicked bitter howl from the young wolf. akela. akela. let the lone wolf show his strength. room for the leader of the pack. spring akela. 
the lone wolf must have spring and miss his hold for mowgli hear the snap of his teeth and then a yelp a the sambhur knock him over with his forefoot. 
he do not wait for anything more but dash on. and the yell grow faint behind him a he run into the croplands where the villager live. 
bagheera speak truth he pant a he nestle down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut. to morrow be one day both for akela and for me. 
then he press his face close to the window and watch the fire on the hearth. he saw the husbandman s wife get up and fee it in the night with black lump. and when the morning come and the mist be all white and cold he saw the man s child pick up a wicker pot plaster inside with earth fill it with lump of red hot charcoal put it under his blanket and go out to tend the cow in the byre. 
be that all. say mowgli. if a cub can do it there be nothing to fear. so he stride round the corner and meet the boy take the pot from his hand and disappear into the mist while the boy howl with fear. 
they be very like me say mowgli blow into the pot a he have see the woman do. this thing will die if i do not give it thing to eat. and he drop twig and dry bark on the red stuff. halfway up the hill he meet bagheera with the morning dew shin like moonstone on his coat. 
akela ha miss say the panther. they would have kill him last night but they need thee also. they be look for thee on the hill. 
i be among the plow land. i be ready. see. mowgli hold up the fire pot. 
good. now i have see men thrust a dry branch into that stuff and presently the red flower blossom at the end of it. art thou not afraid. 
no. why should i fear. i remember now if it be not a dream how before i be a wolf i lay beside the red flower and it be warm and pleasant. 
all that day mowgli sit in the cave tend his fire pot and dip dry branch into it to see how they look. he find a branch that satisfy him and in the even when tabaqui come to the cave and tell him rudely enough that he be want at the council rock he laugh till tabaqui run away. then mowgli go to the council still laugh. 
akela the lone wolf lay by the side of his rock a a sign that the leadership of the pack be open and shere khan with his follow of scrap feed wolf walk to and fro openly be flatter. bagheera lay close to mowgli and the fire pot be between mowgli s knee. when they be all gather together shere khan begin to speak a thing he would never have dare to do when akela be in his prime. 
he ha no right whisper bagheera. say so. he be a dog s son. he will be frighten. 
mowgli spring to his foot. free people he cry doe shere khan lead the pack. what ha a tiger to do with our leadership. 
see that the leadership be yet open and be ask to speak shere khan begin. 
by whom. say mowgli. be we all jackal to fawn on this cattle butch. the leadership of the pack be with the pack alone. 
there be yell of silence thou man s cub. let him speak. he ha keep our law. and at last the senior of the pack thunder. let the dead wolf speak. when a leader of the pack ha miss his kill he be call the dead wolf a long a he life which be not long. 
akela raise his old head wearily. 
free people and ye too jackal of shere khan for twelve season i have lead ye to and from the kill and in all that time not one ha be trap or maim. now i have miss my kill. ye know how that plot be make. ye know how ye bring me up to an untried buck to make my weakness know. it be cleverly do. your right be to kill me here on the council rock now. therefore i ask who come to make an end of the lone wolf. for it be my right by the law of the jungle that ye come one by one. 
there be a long hush for no single wolf care to fight akela to the death. then shere khan roar. bah. what have we to do with this toothless fool. he be doom to die. it be the man cub who ha live too long. free people he be my meat from the first. give him to me. i be weary of this man wolf folly. he ha trouble the jungle for ten season. give me the man cub or i will hunt here always and not give you one bone. he be a man a man s child and from the marrow of my bone i hate him. 
then more than half the pack yell. a man. a man. what ha a man to do with u. let him go to his own place. 
and turn all the people of the village against u. clamor shere khan. no give him to me. he be a man and none of u can look him between the eye. 
akela lift his head again and say he ha eat our food. he ha sleep with u. he ha drive game for u. he ha break no word of the law of the jungle. 
also i pay for him with a bull when he be accept. the worth of a bull be little but bagheera s honor be something that he will perhaps fight for say bagheera in his gentle voice. 
a bull pay ten year ago. the pack snarl. what do we care for bone ten year old. 
or for a pledge. say bagheera his white teeth bar under his lip. well be ye call the free people. 
no man s cub can run with the people of the jungle howl shere khan. give him to me. 
he be our brother in all but blood akela go on and ye would kill him here. in truth i have live too long. some of ye be eater of cattle and of others i have hear that under shere khan s teach ye go by dark night and snatch child from the villager s doorstep. therefore i know ye to be coward and it be to coward i speak. it be certain that i must die and my life be of no worth or i would offer that in the man cub s place. but for the sake of the honor of the pack a little matter that by be without a leader ye have forget i promise that if ye let the man cub go to his own place i will not when my time come to die bare one tooth against ye. i will die without fight. that will at least save the pack three life. more i cannot do. but if ye will i can save ye the shame that come of kill a brother against whom there be no fault a brother speak for and buy into the pack accord to the law of the jungle. 
he be a man a man a man. snarl the pack. and most of the wolf begin to gather round shere khan whose tail be begin to switch. 
now the business be in thy hand say bagheera to mowgli. we can do no more except fight. 
mowgli stand upright the fire pot in his hand. then he stretch out his arm and yawn in the face of the council. but he be furious with rage and sorrow for wolflike the wolf have never tell him how they hat him. listen you. he cry. there be no need for this dog s jabber. ye have tell me so often tonight that i be a man. and indeed i would have be a wolf with you to my life s end. that i feel your word be true. so i do not call ye my brother any more but sag [dogs] a a man should. what ye will do and what ye will not do be not yours to say. that matter be with me. and that we may see the matter more plainly i the man have bring here a little of the red flower which ye dog fear. 
he fling the fire pot on the grind and some of the red coal light a tuft of dry moss that flare up a all the council draw back in terror before the leap flame. 
mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twig light and crackle and whirl it above his head among the cower wolf. 
thou art the master say bagheera in an undertone. save akela from the death. he be ever thy friend. 
akela the grim old wolf who have never ask for mercy in his life give one piteous look at mowgli a the boy stand all naked his long black hair toss over his shoulder in the light of the blaze branch that make the shadow jump and quiver. 
good. say mowgli star round slowly. i see that ye be dog. i go from you to my own people if they be my own people. the jungle be shut to me and i must forget your talk and your companionship. but i will be more merciful than ye be. because i be all but your brother in blood i promise that when i be a man among men i will not betray ye to men a ye have betray me. he kick the fire with his foot and the spark fly up. there shall be no war between any of u in the pack. but here be a debt to pay before i go. he stride forward to where shere khan sit blink stupidly at the flame and catch him by the tuft on his chin. bagheera follow in case of accident. up dog. mowgli cry. up when a man speak or i will set that coat ablaze. 
shere khan s ear lay flat back on his head and he shut his eye for the blaze branch be very near. 
this cattle killer say he would kill me in the council because he have not kill me when i be a cub. thus and thus then do we beat dog when we be men. stir a whisker lungri and i ram the red flower down thy gullet. he beat shere khan over the head with the branch and the tiger whimper and whine in an agony of fear. 
pah. sing jungle cat go now. but remember when next i come to the council rock a a man should come it will be with shere khan s hide on my head. for the rest akela go free to live a he plea. ye will not kill him because that be not my will. nor do i think that ye will sit here any long loll out your tongue a though ye be somebody instead of dog whom i drive out thus. go. the fire be burn furiously at the end of the branch and mowgli strike right and leave round the circle and the wolf run howl with the spark burn their fur. at last there be only akela bagheera and perhaps ten wolf that have take mowgli s part. then something begin to hurt mowgli inside him a he have never be hurt in his life before and he catch his breath and sob and the tear run down his face. 
what be it. what be it. he say. i do not wish to leave the jungle and i do not know what this be. be i die bagheera. 
no little brother. that be only tear such a men use say bagheera. now i know thou art a man and a man s cub no long. the jungle be shut indeed to thee henceforward. let them fall mowgli. they be only tear. so mowgli sit and cry a though his heart would break. and he have never cry in all his life before. 
now he say i will go to men. but first i must say farewell to my mother. and he go to the cave where she live with father wolf and he cry on her coat while the four cub howl miserably. 
ye will not forget me. say mowgli. 
never while we can follow a trail say the cub. come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man and we will talk to thee. and we will come into the croplands to play with thee by night. 
come soon. say father wolf. oh wise little frog come again soon. for we be old thy mother and i. 
come soon say mother wolf little naked son of mine. for listen child of man i love thee more than ever i love my cub. 
i will surely come say mowgli. and when i come it will be to lay out shere khan s hide upon the council rock. do not forget me. tell them in the jungle never to forget me. 
the dawn be begin to break when mowgli go down the hillside alone to meet those mysterious thing that be call men. 
hunt song of the seeonee pack. 
a the dawn be break the sambhur bell once twice and again. and a doe leap up and a doe leap up from the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup. this i scout alone behold once twice and again. 
a the dawn be break the sambhur bell once twice and again. and a wolf steal back and a wolf steal back to carry the word to the wait pack and we seek and we find and we bay on his track once twice and again. 
a the dawn be break the wolf pack yell once twice and again. foot in the jungle that leave no mark. 
eye that can see in the dark the dark. tongue give tongue to it. hark. o hark. once twice and again. 
kaa s hunt. 
his spot be the joy of the leopard. his horn be the buffalo s pride. be clean for the strength of the hunter be know by the gloss of his hide. if ye find that the bullock can toss you or the heavy browed sambhur can gore. ye need not stop work to inform u. we know it ten season before. oppress not the cub of the strange but hail them a sister and brother for though they be little and fubsy it may be the bear be their mother. there be none like to me. say the cub in the pride of his early kill. but the jungle be large and the cub he be small. let him think and be still. maxim of baloo. 
all that be tell here happen some time before mowgli be turn out of the seeonee wolf pack or revenge himself on shere khan the tiger. it be in the day when baloo be teach him the law of the jungle. the big serious old brown bear be delight to have so quick a pupil for the young wolf will only learn a much of the law of the jungle a apply to their own pack and tribe and run away a soon a they can repeat the hunt verse foot that make no noise. eye that can see in the dark. ear that can hear the wind in their lair and sharp white teeth all these thing be the mark of our brother except tabaqui the jackal and the hyaena whom we hate. but mowgli a a man cub have to learn a great deal more than this. sometimes bagheera the black panther would come lounge through the jungle to see how his pet be get on and would purr with his head against a tree while mowgli recite the day s lesson to baloo. the boy could climb almost a well a he could swim and swim almost a well a he could run. so baloo the teacher of the law teach him the wood and water law. how to tell a rotten branch from a sound one. how to speak politely to the wild bee when he come upon a hive of them fifty foot above grind. what to say to mang the bat when he disturb him in the branch at midday. and how to warn the water snake in the pool before he splash down among them. none of the jungle people like be disturb and all be very ready to fly at an intruder. then too mowgli be teach the stranger hunt call which must be repeat aloud till it be answer whenever one of the jungle people hunt outside his own ground. it mean translate give me leave to hunt here because i be hungry. and the answer be hunt then for food but not for pleasure. 
all this will show you how much mowgli have to learn by heart and he grow very tire of say the same thing over a hundred time. but a baloo say to bagheera one day when mowgli have be cuff and run off in a temper a man s cub be a man s cub and he must learn all the law of the jungle. 
but think how small he be say the black panther who would have spoil mowgli if he have have his own way. how can his little head carry all thy long talk. 
be there anything in the jungle too little to be kill. no. that be why i teach him these thing and that be why i hit him very softly when he forget. 
softly. what dost thou know of softness old iron foot. bagheera grunt. his face be all bruise today by thy softness. ugh. 
good he should be bruise from head to foot by me who love him than that he should come to harm through ignorance baloo answer very earnestly. i be now teach him the master word of the jungle that shall protect him with the bird and the snake people and all that hunt on four foot except his own pack. he can now claim protection if he will only remember the word from all in the jungle. be not that worth a little beat. 
well look to it then that thou dost not kill the man cub. he be no tree trunk to sharpen thy blunt claw upon. but what be those master word. i be more likely to give help than to ask it bagheera stretch out one paw and admire the steel blue rip chisel talon at the end of it still i should like to know. 
i will call mowgli and he shall say them if he will. come little brother. 
my head be ring like a bee tree say a sullen little voice over their head and mowgli slide down a tree trunk very angry and indignant add a he reach the grind. i come for bagheera and not for thee fat old baloo. 
that be all one to me say baloo though he be hurt and grieve. tell bagheera then the master word of the jungle that i have teach thee this day. 
master word for which people. say mowgli delight to show off. the jungle ha many tongue. i know them all. 
a little thou knowest but not much. see o bagheera they never thank their teacher. not one small wolfling ha ever come back to thank old baloo for his teaching. say the word for the hunt people then great scholar. 
we be of one blood ye and i say mowgli give the word the bear accent which all the hunt people use. 
good. now for the bird. 
mowgli repeat with the kite s whistle at the end of the sentence. 
now for the snake people say bagheera. 
the answer be a perfectly indescribable hiss and mowgli kick up his foot behind clap his hand together to applaud himself and jump on to bagheera s back where he sit sideways drum with his heel on the glossy skin and make the bad face he could think of at baloo. 
there there. that be worth a little bruise say the brown bear tenderly. some day thou wilt remember me. then he turn aside to tell bagheera how he have beg the master word from hathi the wild elephant who know all about these thing and how hathi have take mowgli down to a pool to get the snake word from a water snake because baloo could not pronounce it and how mowgli be now reasonably safe against all accident in the jungle because neither snake bird nor beast would hurt him. 
no one then be to be fear baloo wind up pat his big furry stomach with pride. 
except his own tribe say bagheera under his breath. and then aloud to mowgli have a care for my rib little brother. what be all this dance up and down. 
mowgli have be try to make himself hear by pull at bagheera s shoulder fur and kick hard. when the two listen to him he be shout at the top of his voice and so i shall have a tribe of my own and lead them through the branch all day long. 
what be this new folly little dreamer of dream. say bagheera. 
yes and throw branch and dirt at old baloo mowgli go on. they have promise me this. ah. 
whoof. baloo s big paw scoop mowgli off bagheera s back and a the boy lay between the big fore paw he could see the bear be angry. 
mowgli say baloo thou hast be talk with the bandar log the monkey people. 
mowgli look at bagheera to see if the panther be angry too and bagheera s eye be a hard a jade stone. 
thou hast be with the monkey people the gray ape the people without a law the eater of everything. that be great shame. 
when baloo hurt my head say mowgli. he be still on his back. i go away and the gray ape come down from the tree and have pity on me. no one else care. he snuffle a little. 
the pity of the monkey people. baloo snort. the stillness of the mountain stream. the cool of the summer sun. and then man cub. 
and then and then they give me nut and pleasant thing to eat and they they carry me in their arm up to the top of the tree and say i be their blood brother except that i have no tail and should be their leader some day. 
they have no leader say bagheera. they lie. they have always lie. 
they be very kind and bid me come again. why have i never be take among the monkey people. they stand on their foot a i do. they do not hit me with their hard paw. they play all day. let me get up. bad baloo let me up. i will play with them again. 
listen man cub say the bear and his voice rumble like thunder on a hot night. i have teach thee all the law of the jungle for all the people of the jungle except the monkey folk who live in the tree. they have no law. they be outcast. they have no speech of their own but use the steal word which they overhear when they listen and peep and wait up above in the branch. their way be not our way. they be without leader. they have no remembrance. they boast and chatter and pretend that they be a great people about to do great affair in the jungle but the fall of a nut turn their mind to laughter and all be forget. we of the jungle have no dealing with them. we do not drink where the monkey drink. we do not go where the monkey go. we do not hunt where they hunt. we do not die where they die. hast thou ever hear me speak of the bandar log till today. 
no say mowgli in a whisper for the forest be very still now baloo have finish. 
the jungle people put them out of their mouth and out of their mind. they be very many evil dirty shameless and they desire if they have any fix desire to be notice by the jungle people. but we do not notice them even when they throw nut and filth on our head. 
he have hardly speak when a shower of nut and twig spatter down through the branch. and they could hear coughing and howling and angry jumping high up in the air among the thin branch. 
the monkey people be forbid say baloo forbid to the jungle people. remember. 
forbid say bagheera but i still think baloo should have warn thee against them. 
i i. how be i to guess he would play with such dirt. the monkey people. faugh. 
a fresh shower come down on their head and the two trot away take mowgli with them. what baloo have say about the monkey be perfectly true. they belong to the tree top and a beast very seldom look up there be no occasion for the monkey and the jungle people to cross each other s path. but whenever they find a sick wolf or a wound tiger or bear the monkey would torment him and would throw stick and nut at any beast for fun and in the hope of be notice. then they would howl and shriek senseless song and invite the jungle people to climb up their tree and fight them or would start furious battle over nothing among themselves and leave the dead monkey where the jungle people could see them. they be always just go to have a leader and law and custom of their own but they never do because their memory would not hold over from day to day and so they compromise thing by make up a say what the bandar log think now the jungle will think late and that comfort them a great deal. none of the beast could reach them but on the other hand none of the beast would notice them and that be why they be so please when mowgli come to play with them and they hear how angry baloo be. 
they never mean to do any more the bandar log never mean anything at all. but one of them invent what seem to him a brilliant idea and he tell all the others that mowgli would be a useful person to keep in the tribe because he could weave stick together for protection from the wind. so if they catch him they could make him teach them. of course mowgli a a woodcutter s child inherit all sort of instinct and use to make little hut of fall branch without think how he come to do it. the monkey people watch in the tree consider his play most wonderful. this time they say they be really go to have a leader and become the wise people in the jungle so wise that everyone else would notice and envy them. therefore they follow baloo and bagheera and mowgli through the jungle very quietly till it be time for the midday nap and mowgli who be very much ashamed of himself sleep between the panther and the bear resolve to have no more to do with the monkey people. 
the next thing he remember be feel hand on his leg and arm hard strong little hand and then a swash of branch in his face and then he be star down through the sway bough a baloo wake the jungle with his deep cry and bagheera bound up the trunk with every tooth bar. the bandar log howl with triumph and scuffle away to the upper branch where bagheera dare not follow shout. he ha notice u. bagheera ha notice u. all the jungle people admire u for our skill and our cunning. then they begin their flight. and the flight of the monkey people through tree land be one of the thing nobody can describe. they have their regular road and crossroad up hill and down hill all lay out from fifty to seventy or a hundred foot above grind and by these they can travel even at night if necessary. two of the strong monkey catch mowgli under the arm and swing off with him through the treetop twenty foot at a bind. have they be alone they could have go twice a fast but the boy s weight hold them back. sick and giddy a mowgli be he could not help enjoy the wild rush though the glimpse of earth far down below frighten him and the terrible check and jerk at the end of the swing over nothing but empty air bring his heart between his teeth. his escort would rush him up a tree till he felt the thin topmost branch crackle and bend under them and then with a cough and a whoop would fling themselves into the air outward and downward and bring up hang by their hand or their foot to the low limb of the next tree. sometimes he could see for mile and mile across the still green jungle a a man on the top of a mast can see for mile across the sea and then the branch and leaf would lash him across the face and he and his two guard would be almost down to earth again. so bound and crash and whoop and yell the whole tribe of bandar log sweep along the tree road with mowgli their prisoner. 
for a time he be afraid of be drop. then he grow angry but know good than to struggle and then he begin to think. the first thing be to send back word to baloo and bagheera for at the pace the monkey be go he know his friend would be leave far behind. it be useless to look down for he could only see the topside of the branch so he star upward and saw far away in the blue rann the kite balance and wheel a he keep watch over the jungle wait for thing to die. rann saw that the monkey be carry something and drop a few hundred yard to find out whether their load be good to eat. he whistle with surprise when he saw mowgli be drag up to a treetop and hear him give the kite call for we be of one blood thou and i. the wave of the branch close over the boy but rann balance away to the next tree in time to see the little brown face come up again. mark my trail. mowgli shout. tell baloo of the seeonee pack and bagheera of the council rock. 
in whose name brother. rann have never see mowgli before though of course he have hear of him. 
mowgli the frog. man cub they call me. mark my trail. 
the last word be shriek a he be be swing through the air but rann nod and rise up till he look no big than a speck of dust and there he hang watch with his telescope eye the sway of the treetop a mowgli s escort whirl along. 
they never go far he say with a chuckle. they never do what they set out to do. always peck at new thing be the bandar log. this time if i have any eye sight they have peck down trouble for themselves for baloo be no fledgling and bagheera can a i know kill more than goat. 
so he rock on his wing his foot gather up under him and wait. 
meantime baloo and bagheera be furious with rage and grief. bagheera climb a he have never climb before but the thin branch break beneath his weight and he slip down his claw full of bark. 
why didst thou not warn the man cub. he roar to poor baloo who have set off at a clumsy trot in the hope of overtake the monkey. what be the use of half slay him with blow if thou didst not warn him. 
haste. o haste. we we may catch them yet. baloo pant. 
at that speed. it would not tire a wound cow. teacher of the law cub beater a mile of that roll to and fro would burst thee open. sit still and think. make a plan. this be no time for chase. they may drop him if we follow too close. 
arrula. whoo. they may have drop him already be tire of carry him. who can trust the bandar log. put dead bat on my head. give me black bone to eat. roll me into the hive of the wild bee that i may be sting to death and bury me with the hyaena for i be most miserable of bear. arulala. wahooa. o mowgli mowgli. why do i not warn thee against the monkey folk instead of break thy head. now perhaps i may have knock the day s lesson out of his mind and he will be alone in the jungle without the master word. 
baloo clasp his paw over his ear and roll to and fro moan. 
at least he give me all the word correctly a little time ago say bagheera impatiently. baloo thou hast neither memory nor respect. what would the jungle think if i the black panther curl myself up like ikki the porcupine and howl. 
what do i care what the jungle think. he may be dead by now. 
unless and until they drop him from the branch in sport or kill him out of idleness i have no fear for the man cub. he be wise and well teach and above all he ha the eye that make the jungle people afraid. but. and it be a great evil. he be in the power of the bandar log and they because they live in tree have no fear of any of our people. bagheera lick one forepaw thoughtfully. 
fool that i be. oh fat brown root dig fool that i be say baloo uncoil himself with a jerk it be true what hathi the wild elephant say. `to each his own fear. and they the bandar log fear kaa the rock snake. he can climb a well a they can. he steal the young monkey in the night. the whisper of his name make their wicked tail cold. let u go to kaa. 
what will he do for u. he be not of our tribe be footle and with most evil eye say bagheera. 
he be very old and very cunning. above all he be always hungry say baloo hopefully. promise him many goat. 
he sleep for a full month after he ha once eat. he may be asleep now and even be he awake what if he would rather kill his own goat. bagheera who do not know much about kaa be naturally suspicious. 
then in that case thou and i together old hunter might make him see reason. here baloo rub his fade brown shoulder against the panther and they go off to look for kaa the rock python. 
they find him stretch out on a warm ledge in the afternoon sun admire his beautiful new coat for he have be in retirement for the last ten day change his skin and now he be very splendid dart his big blunt nose head along the grind and twist the thirty foot of his body into fantastic knot and curve and lick his lip a he think of his dinner to come. 
he ha not eat say baloo with a grunt of relief a soon a he saw the beautifully mottle brown and yellow jacket. be careful bagheera. he be always a little blind after he ha change his skin and very quick to strike. 
kaa be not a poison snake in fact he rather despise the poison snake a coward but his strength lay in his hug and when he have once lap his huge coil round anybody there be no more to be say. good hunt. cry baloo sit up on his haunch. like all snake of his breed kaa be rather deaf and do not hear the call at first. then he curl up ready for any accident his head lower. 
good hunt for u all he answer. oho baloo what dost thou do here. good hunt bagheera. one of u at least need food. be there any news of game afoot. a doe now or even a young buck. i be a empty a a dry well. 
we be hunt say baloo carelessly. he know that you must not hurry kaa. he be too big. 
give me permission to come with you say kaa. a blow more or le be nothing to thee bagheera or baloo but i i have to wait and wait for day in a wood path and climb half a night on the mere chance of a young ape. psshaw. the branch be not what they be when i be young. rotten twig and dry bough be they all. 
maybe thy great weight ha something to do with the matter say baloo. 
i be a fair length a fair length say kaa with a little pride. but for all that it be the fault of this new grow timber. i come very near to fall on my last hunt very near indeed and the noise of my slip for my tail be not tight wrap around the tree wake the bandar log and they call me most evil name. 
footle yellow earth worm say bagheera under his whisker a though he be try to remember something. 
sss. have they ever call me that. say kaa. 
something of that kind it be that they shout to u last moon but we never notice them. they will say anything even that thou hast lose all thy teeth and wilt not face anything big than a kid because. they be indeed shameless these bandar log. because thou art afraid of the he goat s horn bagheera go on sweetly. 
now a snake especially a wary old python like kaa very seldom show that he be angry but baloo and bagheera could see the big swallow muscle on either side of kaa s throat ripple and bulge. 
the bandar log have shift their ground he say quietly. when i come up into the sun today i hear them whoop among the tree top. 
it it be the bandar log that we follow now say baloo but the word stick in his throat for that be the first time in his memory that one of the jungle people have own to be interest in the do of the monkey. 
beyond doubt then it be no small thing that take two such hunter leader in their own jungle i be certain on the trail of the bandar log kaa reply courteously a he swell with curiosity. 
indeed baloo begin i be no more than the old and sometimes very foolish teacher of the law to the seeonee wolf cub and bagheera here. 
be bagheera say the black panther and his jaw shut with a snap for he do not believe in be humble. the trouble be this kaa. those nut stealer and picker of palm leaf have steal away our man cub of whom thou hast perhaps hear. 
i hear some news from ikki. his quill make him presumptuous. of a man thing that be enter into a wolf pack but i do not believe. ikki be full of story half hear and very badly tell. 
but it be true. he be such a man cub a never be say baloo. the best and wise and bold of man cub my own pupil who shall make the name of baloo famous through all the jungle. and besides i we love him kaa. 
t. t. say kaa weave his head to and fro. i also have know what love be. there be tale i could tell that. 
that need a clear night when we be all well feed to praise properly say bagheera quickly. our man cub be in the hand of the bandar log now and we know that of all the jungle people they fear kaa alone. 
they fear me alone. they have good reason say kaa. chatter foolish vain vain foolish and chatter be the monkey. but a man thing in their hand be in no good luck. they grow tire of the nut they pick and throw them down. they carry a branch half a day mean to do great thing with it and then they snap it in two. that man thing be not to be envy. they call me also `yellow fish be it not. 
worm worm earth worm say bagheera a well a other thing which i cannot now say for shame. 
we must remind them to speak well of their master. aaa ssp. we must help their wander memory. now whither go they with the cub. 
the jungle alone know. toward the sunset i believe say baloo. we have think that thou wouldst know kaa. 
i. how. i take them when they come in my way but i do not hunt the bandar log or frog or green scum on a water hole for that matter. 
up up. up up. hillo. illo. illo look up baloo of the seeonee wolf pack. 
baloo look up to see where the voice come from and there be rann the kite sweep down with the sun shin on the upturned flange of his wing. it be near rann s bedtime but he have range all over the jungle look for the bear and have miss him in the thick foliage. 
what be it. say baloo. 
i have see mowgli among the bandar log. he bid me tell you. i watch. the bandar log have take him beyond the river to the monkey city to the cold lair. they may stay there for a night or ten night or an hour. i have tell the bat to watch through the dark time. that be my message. good hunt all you below. 
full gorge and a deep sleep to you rann cry bagheera. i will remember thee in my next kill and put aside the head for thee alone o best of kite. 
it be nothing. it be nothing. the boy hold the master word. i could have do no le and rann circle up again to his roost. 
he ha not forget to use his tongue say baloo with a chuckle of pride. to think of one so young remember the master word for the bird too while he be be pull across tree. 
it be most firmly drive into him say bagheera. but i be proud of him and now we must go to the cold lair. 
they all know where that place be but few of the jungle people ever go there because what they call the cold lair be an old desert city lose and bury in the jungle and beast seldom use a place that men have once use. the wild boar will but the hunt tribe do not. besides the monkey live there a much a they could be say to live anywhere and no self respect animal would come within eyeshot of it except in time of drought when the half ruin tank and reservoir hold a little water. 
it be half a night s journey at full speed say bagheera and baloo look very serious. i will go a fast a i can he say anxiously. 
we dare not wait for thee. follow baloo. we must go on the quick foot kaa and i. 
foot or no foot i can keep abreast of all thy four say kaa shortly. baloo make one effort to hurry but have to sit down pant and so they leave him to come on late while bagheera hurry forward at the quick panther canter. kaa say nothing but strive a bagheera might the huge rock python hold level with him. when they come to a hill stream bagheera gain because he bound across while kaa swim his head and two foot of his neck clear the water but on level grind kaa make up the distance. 
by the break lock that free me say bagheera when twilight have fall thou art no slow goer. 
i be hungry say kaa. besides they call me speckle frog. 
worm earth worm and yellow to boot. 
all one. let u go on and kaa seem to pour himself along the grind find the short road with his steady eye and keep to it. 
in the cold lair the monkey people be not think of mowgli s friend at all. they have bring the boy to the lose city and be very much please with themselves for the time. mowgli have never see an indian city before and though this be almost a heap of ruin it seem very wonderful and splendid. some king have build it long ago on a little hill. you could still trace the stone causeway that lead up to the ruin gate where the last splinter of wood hang to the wear rust hinge. tree have grow into and out of the wall. the battlement be tumble down and decay and wild creeper hang out of the window of the tower on the wall in bushy hang clump. 
a great roofless palace crown the hill and the marble of the courtyard and the fountain be split and stain with red and green and the very cobblestone in the courtyard where the king s elephant use to live have be thrust up and apart by grass and young tree. from the palace you could see the row and row of roofless house that make up the city look like empty honeycomb fill with blackness. the shapeless block of stone that have be an idol in the square where four road meet. the pit and dimple at street corner where the public well once stand and the shatter dome of temple with wild fig sprout on their side. the monkey call the place their city and pretend to despise the jungle people because they live in the forest. and yet they never know what the building be make for nor how to use them. they would sit in circle on the hall of the king s council chamber and scratch for flea and pretend to be men. or they would run in and out of the roofless house and collect piece of plaster and old brick in a corner and forget where they have hide them and fight and cry in scuffle crowd and then break off to play up and down the terrace of the king s garden where they would shake the rise tree and the orange in sport to see the fruit and flower fall. they explore all the passage and dark tunnel in the palace and the hundred of little dark room but they never remember what they have see and what they have not. and so drift about in one and two or crowd tell each other that they be do a men do. they drink at the tank and make the water all muddy and then they fight over it and then they would all rush together in mob and shout. there be no one in the jungle so wise and good and clever and strong and gentle a the bandar log. then all would begin again till they grow tire of the city and go back to the tree top hop the jungle people would notice them. 
mowgli who have be train under the law of the jungle do not like or understand this kind of life. the monkey drag him into the cold lair late in the afternoon and instead of go to sleep a mowgli would have do after a long journey they join hand and dance about and sing their foolish song. one of the monkey make a speech and tell his companion that mowgli s capture mark a new thing in the history of the bandar log for mowgli be go to show them how to weave stick and cane together a a protection against rain and cold. mowgli pick up some creeper and begin to work them in and out and the monkey try to imitate. but in a very few minute they lose interest and begin to pull their friend tail or jump up and down on all four cough. 
i wish to eat say mowgli. i be a strange in this part of the jungle. bring me food or give me leave to hunt here. 
twenty or thirty monkey bound away to bring him nut and wild pawpaw. but they fell to fight on the road and it be too much trouble to go back with what be leave of the fruit. mowgli be sore and angry a well a hungry and he roam through the empty city give the stranger hunt call from time to time but no one answer him and mowgli felt that he have reach a very bad place indeed. all that baloo ha say about the bandar log be true he think to himself. they have no law no hunt call and no leader nothing but foolish word and little pick thievish hand. so if i be starve or kill here it will be all my own fault. but i must try to return to my own jungle. baloo will surely beat me but that be good than chase silly rise leaf with the bandar log. 
no sooner have he walk to the city wall than the monkey pull him back tell him that he do not know how happy he be and pinch him to make him grateful. he set his teeth and say nothing but go with the shout monkey to a terrace above the red sandstone reservoir that be half full of rain water. there be a ruin summer house of white marble in the center of the terrace build for queen dead a hundred year ago. the domed roof have half fall in and block up the underground passage from the palace by which the queen use to enter. but the wall be make of screen of marble tracery beautiful milk white fretwork set with agate and cornelian and jasper and lapis lazuli and a the moon come up behind the hill it shine through the open work cast shadow on the grind like black velvet embroidery. sore sleepy and hungry a he be mowgli could not help laugh when the bandar log begin twenty at a time to tell him how great and wise and strong and gentle they be and how foolish he be to wish to leave them. we be great. we be free. we be wonderful. we be the most wonderful people in all the jungle. we all say so and so it must be true they shout. now a you be a new listener and can carry our word back to the jungle people so that they may notice u in future we will tell you all about our most excellent self. mowgli make no objection and the monkey gather by hundred and hundred on the terrace to listen to their own speaker sing the praise of the bandar log and whenever a speaker stop for want of breath they would all shout together. this be true. we all say so. mowgli nod and blink and say yes when they ask him a question and his head spin with the noise. tabaqui the jackal must have bite all these people he say to himself and now they have madness. certainly this be dewanee the madness. do they never go to sleep. now there be a cloud come to cover that moon. if it be only a big enough cloud i might try to run away in the darkness. but i be tire. 
that same cloud be be watch by two good friend in the ruin ditch below the city wall for bagheera and kaa know well how dangerous the monkey people be in large number do not wish to run any risk. the monkey never fight unless they be a hundred to one and few in the jungle care for those odds. 
i will go to the west wall kaa whisper and come down swiftly with the slope of the grind in my favor. they will not throw themselves upon my back in their hundred but. 
i know it say bagheera. would that baloo be here but we must do what we can. when that cloud cover the moon i shall go to the terrace. they hold some sort of council there over the boy. 
good hunt say kaa grimly and glide away to the west wall. that happen to be the least ruin of any and the big snake be delay awhile before he could find a way up the stone. the cloud hide the moon and a mowgli wonder what would come next he hear bagheera s light foot on the terrace. the black panther have race up the slope almost without a sound and be strike he know good than to waste time in bite right and leave among the monkey who be seat round mowgli in circle fifty and sixty deep. there be a howl of fright and rage and then a bagheera trip on the roll kick body beneath him a monkey shout. there be only one here. kill him. kill. a scuffle mass of monkey bite scratch tear and pull close over bagheera while five or six lay hold of mowgli drag him up the wall of the summerhouse and push him through the hole of the break dome. a man train boy would have be badly bruise for the fall be a good fifteen foot but mowgli fell a baloo have teach him to fall and land on his foot. 
stay there shout the monkey till we have kill thy friend and late we will play with thee if the poison people leave thee alive. 
we be of one blood ye and i say mowgli quickly give the snake s call. he could hear rustle and hiss in the rubbish all round him and give the call a second time to make sure. 
even ssso. down hood all. say half a dozen low voice. every ruin in india become sooner or late a dwell place of snake and the old summerhouse be alive with cobra. stand still little brother for thy foot may do u harm. 
mowgli stand a quietly a he could peer through the open work and listen to the furious din of the fight round the black panther the yell and chattering and scuffle and bagheera s deep hoarse cough a he back and buck and twist and plunge under the heap of his enemy. for the first time since he be bear bagheera be fight for his life. 
baloo must be at hand. bagheera would not have come alone mowgli think. and then he call aloud. to the tank bagheera. roll to the water tank. roll and plunge. get to the water. 
bagheera hear and the cry that tell him mowgli be safe give him new courage. he work his way desperately inch by inch straight for the reservoir halt in silence. then from the ruin wall near the jungle rise up the rumble war shout of baloo. the old bear have do his best but he could not come before. bagheera he shout i be here. i climb. i haste. ahuwora. the stone slip under my foot. wait my come o most infamous bandar log. he pant up the terrace only to disappear to the head in a wave of monkey but he throw himself squarely on his haunch and spread out his forepaw hug a many a he could hold and then begin to hit with a regular bat bat bat like the flip stroke of a paddle wheel. a crash and a splash tell mowgli that bagheera have fight his way to the tank where the monkey could not follow. the panther lay gasp for breath his head just out of the water while the monkey stand three deep on the red step dance up and down with rage ready to spring upon him from all side if he come out to help baloo. it be then that bagheera lift up his drip chin and in despair give the snake s call for protection we be of one blood ye and i for he believe that kaa have turn tail at the last minute. even baloo half smother under the monkey on the edge of the terrace could not help chuckle a he hear the black panther ask for help. 
kaa have only just work his way over the west wall land with a wrench that dislodge a cop stone into the ditch. he have no intention of lose any advantage of the grind and coil and uncoil himself once or twice to be sure that every foot of his long body be in work order. all that while the fight with baloo go on and the monkey yell in the tank round bagheera and mang the bat fly to and fro carry the news of the great battle over the jungle till even hathi the wild elephant trumpet and far away scatter band of the monkey folk wake and come leap along the tree road to help their comrade in the cold lair and the noise of the fight rouse all the day bird for mile round. then kaa come straight quickly and anxious to kill. the fight strength of a python be in the drive blow of his head back by all the strength and weight of his body. if you can imagine a lance or a batter ram or a hammer weigh nearly half a ton drive by a cool quiet mind live in the handle of it you can roughly imagine what kaa be like when he fight. a python four or five foot long can knock a man down if he hit him fairly in the chest and kaa be thirty foot long a you know. his first stroke be deliver into the heart of the crowd round baloo. it be send home with shut mouth in silence and there be no need of a second. the monkey scatter with cry of kaa. it be kaa. run. run. 
generation of monkey have be scar into good behavior by the story their elder tell them of kaa the night thief who could slip along the branch a quietly a moss grow and steal away the strong monkey that ever live. of old kaa who could make himself look so like a dead branch or a rotten stump that the wise be deceive till the branch catch them. kaa be everything that the monkey fear in the jungle for none of them know the limit of his power none of them could look him in the face and none have ever come alive out of his hug. and so they run stammer with terror to the wall and the roof of the house and baloo draw a deep breath of relief. his fur be much thick than bagheera s but he have suffer sorely in the fight. then kaa open his mouth for the first time and speak one long hiss word and the far away monkey hurry to the defense of the cold lair stay where they be cower till the load branch bend and crackle under them. the monkey on the wall and the empty house stop their cry and in the stillness that fell upon the city mowgli hear bagheera shake his wet side a he come up from the tank. then the clamor break out again. the monkey leap high up the wall. they cling around the neck of the big stone idol and shriek a they skip along the battlement while mowgli dance in the summerhouse put his eye to the screenwork and hoot owl fashion between his front teeth to show his derision and contempt. 
get the man cub out of that trap. i can do no more bagheera gasp. let u take the man cub and go. they may attack again. 
they will not move till i order them. stay you sssso. kaa hiss and the city be silent once more. i could not come before brother but i think i hear thee call this be to bagheera. 
i i may have cry out in the battle bagheera answer. baloo art thou hurt. 
i be not sure that they do not pull me into a hundred little bearlings say baloo gravely shake one leg after the other. wow. i be sore. kaa we owe thee i think our life bagheera and i. 
no matter. where be the manling. 
here in a trap. i cannot climb out cry mowgli. the curve of the break dome be above his head. 
take him away. he dance like mao the peacock. he will crush our young say the cobra inside. 
hah. say kaa with a chuckle he ha friend everywhere this manling. stand back manling. and hide you o poison people. i break down the wall. 
kaa look carefully till he find a discolor crack in the marble tracery show a weak spot make two or three light tap with his head to get the distance and then lift up six foot of his body clear of the grind send home half a dozen full power smash blow nose first. the screen work break and fell away in a cloud of dust and rubbish and mowgli leap through the open and fling himself between baloo and bagheera an arm around each big neck. 
art thou hurt. say baloo hug him softly. 
i be sore hungry and not a little bruise. but oh they have handle ye grievously my brother. ye bleed. 
others also say bagheera lick his lip and look at the monkey dead on the terrace and round the tank. 
it be nothing it be nothing if thou art safe oh my pride of all little frog. whimper baloo. 
of that we shall judge late say bagheera in a dry voice that mowgli do not at all like. but here be kaa to whom we owe the battle and thou owest thy life. thank him accord to our custom mowgli. 
mowgli turn and saw the great python s head sway a foot above his own. 
so this be the manling say kaa. very soft be his skin and he be not unlike the bandar log. have a care manling that i do not mistake thee for a monkey some twilight when i have newly change my coat. 
we be one blood thou and i mowgli answer. i take my life from thee tonight. my kill shall be thy kill if ever thou art hungry o kaa. 
all thank little brother say kaa though his eye twinkle. and what may so bold a hunter kill. i ask that i may follow when next he go abroad. 
i kill nothing i be too little but i drive goat toward such a can use them. when thou art empty come to me and see if i speak the truth. i have some skill in these [he hold out his hands] and if ever thou art in a trap i may pay the debt which i owe to thee to bagheera and to baloo here. good hunt to ye all my master. 
well say growl baloo for mowgli have return thank very prettily. the python drop his head lightly for a minute on mowgli s shoulder. a brave heart and a courteous tongue say he. they shall carry thee far through the jungle manling. but now go hence quickly with thy friend. go and sleep for the moon set and what follow it be not well that thou shouldst see. 
the moon be sink behind the hill and the line of tremble monkey huddle together on the wall and battlement look like rag shaky fringe of thing. baloo go down to the tank for a drink and bagheera begin to put his fur in order a kaa glide out into the center of the terrace and bring his jaw together with a ring snap that draw all the monkey eye upon him. 
the moon set he say. be there yet light enough to see. 
from the wall come a moan like the wind in the tree top we see o kaa. 
good. begin now the dance the dance of the hunger of kaa. sit still and watch. 
he turn twice or thrice in a big circle weave his head from right to leave. then he begin make loop and figure of eight with his body and soft oozy triangle that melt into square and five side figure and coil mound never rest never hurry and never stop his low hum song. it grow dark and dark till at last the drag shift coil disappear but they could hear the rustle of the scale. 
baloo and bagheera stand still a stone growl in their throat their neck hair bristle and mowgli watch and wonder. 
bandar log say the voice of kaa at last can ye stir foot or hand without my order. speak. 
without thy order we cannot stir foot or hand o kaa. 
good. come all one pace near to me. 
the line of the monkey sway forward helplessly and baloo and bagheera take one stiff step forward with them. 
near. hiss kaa and they all move again. 
mowgli lay his hand on baloo and bagheera to get them away and the two great beast start a though they have be wake from a dream. 
keep thy hand on my shoulder bagheera whisper. keep it there or i must go back must go back to kaa. aah. 
it be only old kaa make circle on the dust say mowgli. let u go. and the three slip off through a gap in the wall to the jungle. 
whoof. say baloo when he stand under the still tree again. never more will i make an ally of kaa and he shake himself all over. 
he know more than we say bagheera tremble. in a little time have i stay i should have walk down his throat. 
many will walk by that road before the moon rise again say baloo. he will have good hunt after his own fashion. 
but what be the mean of it all. say mowgli who do not know anything of a python s power of fascination. i saw no more than a big snake make foolish circle till the dark come. and his nose be all sore. ho. ho. 
mowgli say bagheera angrily his nose be sore on thy account a my ear and side and paw and baloo s neck and shoulder be bite on thy account. neither baloo nor bagheera will be able to hunt with pleasure for many day. 
it be nothing say baloo. we have the man cub again. 
true but he ha cost u heavily in time which might have be spend in good hunt in wound in hair i be half pluck along my back and last of all in honor. for remember mowgli i who be the black panther be force to call upon kaa for protection and baloo and i be both make stupid a little bird by the hunger dance. all this man cub come of thy play with the bandar log. 
true it be true say mowgli sorrowfully. i be an evil man cub and my stomach be sad in me. 
mf. what say the law of the jungle baloo. 
baloo do not wish to bring mowgli into any more trouble but he could not tamper with the law so he mumble. sorrow never stay punishment. but remember bagheera he be very little. 
i will remember. but he ha do mischief and blow must be deal now. mowgli hast thou anything to say. 
nothing. i do wrong. baloo and thou be wound. it be just. 
bagheera give him half a dozen love tap from a panther s point of view. they would hardly have wake one of his own cub. but for a seven year old boy they amount to a severe a beat a you could wish to avoid. when it be all over mowgli sneeze and pick himself up without a word. 
now say bagheera jump on my back little brother and we will go home. 
one of the beauty of jungle law be that punishment settle all score. there be no nag afterward. 
mowgli lay his head down on bagheera s back and sleep so deeply that he never wake when he be put down in the home cave. 
road song of the bandar log. 
here we go in a fling festoon half way up to the jealous moon. don t you envy our pranceful band. don t you wish you have extra hand. wouldn t you like if your tail be so curve in the shape of a cupid s bow. now you re angry but never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. 
here we sit in a branchy row think of beautiful thing we know. dream of deed that we mean to do all complete in a minute or two something noble and wise and good do by merely wish we could. we ve forget but never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. 
all the talk we ever have hear utter by bat or beast or bird hide or fin or scale or feather jabber it quickly and all together. excellent. wonderful. once again. 
now we be talk just like men. let s pretend we be. never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. this be the way of the monkey kind. 
then join our leap line that scumfish through the pine that rocket by where light and high the wild grape swing. by the rubbish in our wake and the noble noise we make be sure be sure we re go to do some splendid thing. 
tiger. tiger. 
what of the hunt hunter bold. brother the watch be long and cold. what of the quarry ye go to kill. brother he crop in the jungle still. where be the power that make your pride. brother it ebb from my flank and side. where be the haste that ye hurry by. brother i go to my lair to die. 
now we must go back to the first tale. when mowgli leave the wolf s cave after the fight with the pack at the council rock he go down to the plow land where the villager live but he would not stop there because it be too near to the jungle and he know that he have make at least one bad enemy at the council. so he hurry on keep to the rough road that run down the valley and follow it at a steady jog trot for nearly twenty mile till he come to a country that he do not know. the valley open out into a great plain dot over with rock and cut up by ravine. at one end stand a little village and at the other the thick jungle come down in a sweep to the graze ground and stop there a though it have be cut off with a hoe. all over the plain cattle and buffalo be graze and when the little boy in charge of the herd saw mowgli they shout and run away and the yellow pariah dog that hang about every indian village bark. mowgli walk on for he be feel hungry and when he come to the village gate he saw the big thorn bush that be draw up before the gate at twilight push to one side. 
umph. he say for he have come across more than one such barricade in his night ramble after thing to eat. so men be afraid of the people of the jungle here also. he sit down by the gate and when a man come out he stand up open his mouth and point down it to show that he want food. the man star and run back up the one street of the village shout for the priest who be a big fat man dress in white with a red and yellow mark on his forehead. the priest come to the gate and with him at least a hundred people who star and talk and shout and point at mowgli. 
they have no manner these men folk say mowgli to himself. only the gray ape would behave a they do. so he throw back his long hair and frown at the crowd. 
what be there to be afraid of. say the priest. look at the mark on his arm and leg. they be the bite of wolf. he be but a wolf child run away from the jungle. 
of course in play together the cub have often nip mowgli hard than they intend and there be white scar all over his arm and leg. but he would have be the last person in the world to call these bite for he know what real bite mean. 
arre. arre. say two or three woman together. to be bite by wolf poor child. he be a handsome boy. he ha eye like red fire. by my honor messua he be not unlike thy boy that be take by the tiger. 
let me look say a woman with heavy copper ring on her wrist and ankle and she peer at mowgli under the palm of her hand. indeed he be not. he be thin but he ha the very look of my boy. 
the priest be a clever man and he know that messua be wife to the rich villager in the place. so he look up at the sky for a minute and say solemnly. what the jungle ha take the jungle ha restore. take the boy into thy house my sister and forget not to honor the priest who see so far into the life of men. 
by the bull that buy me say mowgli to himself but all this talk be like another look over by the pack. well if i be a man a man i must become. 
the crowd part a the woman beckon mowgli to her hut where there be a red lacquer bedstead a great earthen grain chest with funny raise pattern on it half a dozen copper cook pot an image of a hindu god in a little alcove and on the wall a real look glass such a they sell at the country fair. 
she give him a long drink of milk and some bread and then she lay her hand on his head and look into his eye. for she think perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger have take him. so she say nathoo o nathoo. mowgli do not show that he know the name. dost thou not remember the day when i give thee thy new shoe. she touch his foot and it be almost a hard a horn. no she say sorrowfully those foot have never wear shoe but thou art very like my nathoo and thou shalt be my son. 
mowgli be uneasy because he have never be under a roof before. but a he look at the thatch he saw that he could tear it out any time if he want to get away and that the window have no fastening. what be the good of a man he say to himself at last if he doe not understand man s talk. now i be a silly and dumb a a man would be with u in the jungle. i must speak their talk. 
it be not for fun that he have learn while he be with the wolf to imitate the challenge of buck in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig. so a soon a messua pronounce a word mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly and before dark he have learn the name of many thing in the hut. 
there be a difficulty at bedtime because mowgli would not sleep under anything that look so like a panther trap a that hut and when they shut the door he go through the window. give him his will say messua s husband. remember he can never till now have sleep on a bed. if he be indeed send in the place of our son he will not run away. 
so mowgli stretch himself in some long clean grass at the edge of the field but before he have close his eye a soft gray nose poke him under the chin. 
phew. say gray brother. he be the eldest of mother wolf s cub. this be a poor reward for follow thee twenty mile. thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle altogether like a man already. wake little brother. i bring news. 
be all well in the jungle. say mowgli hug him. 
all except the wolf that be burn with the red flower. now listen. shere khan ha go away to hunt far off till his coat grow again for he be badly sing. when he return he swear that he will lay thy bone in the waingunga. 
there be two word to that. i also have make a little promise. but news be always good. i be tire to night very tire with new thing gray brother but bring me the news always. 
thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf. men will not make thee forget. say gray brother anxiously. 
never. i will always remember that i love thee and all in our cave. but also i will always remember that i have be cast out of the pack. 
and that thou mayest be cast out of another pack. men be only men little brother and their talk be like the talk of frog in a pond. when i come down here again i will wait for thee in the bamboo at the edge of the graze grind. 
for three month after that night mowgli hardly ever leave the village gate he be so busy learn the way and custom of men. first he have to wear a cloth round him which annoy him horribly. and then he have to learn about money which he do not in the least understand and about plow of which he do not see the use. then the little child in the village make him very angry. luckily the law of the jungle have teach him to keep his temper for in the jungle life and food depend on keep your temper. but when they make fun of him because he would not play game or fly kite or because he mispronounce some word only the knowledge that it be unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cub keep him from pick them up and break them in two. 
he do not know his own strength in the least. in the jungle he know he be weak compare with the beast but in the village people say that he be a strong a a bull. 
and mowgli have not the faint idea of the difference that caste make between man and man. when the potter s donkey slip in the clay pit mowgli haul it out by the tail and help to stack the pot for their journey to the market at khanhiwara. that be very shock too for the potter be a low caste man and his donkey be bad. when the priest scold him mowgli threaten to put him on the donkey too and the priest tell messua s husband that mowgli have good be set to work a soon a possible. and the village head man tell mowgli that he would have to go out with the buffalo next day and herd them while they graze. no one be more please than mowgli. and that night because he have be appoint a servant of the village a it be he go off to a circle that meet every even on a masonry platform under a great fig tree. it be the village club and the head man and the watchman and the barber who know all the gossip of the village and old buldeo the village hunter who have a tower musket meet and smoke. the monkey sit and talk in the upper branch and there be a hole under the platform where a cobra live and he have his little platter of milk every night because he be sacred. and the old men sit around the tree and talk and pull at the big huqas. the water pipe. till far into the night. they tell wonderful tale of god and men and ghost. and buldeo tell even more wonderful one of the way of beast in the jungle till the eye of the child sit outside the circle bulge out of their head. most of the tale be about animal for the jungle be always at their door. the deer and the wild pig grub up their crop and now and again the tiger carry off a man at twilight within sight of the village gate. 
mowgli who naturally know something about what they be talk of have to cover his face not to show that he be laugh while buldeo the tower musket across his knee climb on from one wonderful story to another and mowgli s shoulder shake. 
buldeo be explain how the tiger that have carry away messua s son be a ghost tiger and his body be inhabit by the ghost of a wicked old money lender who have die some year ago. and i know that this be true he say because purun das always limp from the blow that he get in a riot when his account book be burn and the tiger that i speak of he limp too for the track of his pad be unequal. 
true true that must be the truth say the gray beard nod together. 
be all these tale such cobweb and moon talk. say mowgli. that tiger limp because he be bear lame a everyone know. to talk of the soul of a money lender in a beast that never have the courage of a jackal be child s talk. 
buldeo be speechless with surprise for a moment and the head man star. 
oho. it be the jungle brat be it. say buldeo. if thou art so wise good bring his hide to khanhiwara for the government ha set a hundred rupee on his life. good still talk not when thy elder speak. 
mowgli rise to go. all the even i have lie here listen he call back over his shoulder and except once or twice buldeo ha not say one word of truth concern the jungle which be at his very door. how then shall i believe the tale of ghost and god and goblin which he say he ha see. 
it be full time that boy go to herd say the head man while buldeo puff and snort at mowgli s impertinence. 
the custom of most indian village be for a few boy to take the cattle and buffalo out to graze in the early morning and bring them back at night. the very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be bang and bully and shout at by child that hardly come up to their nose. so long a the boy keep with the herd they be safe for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle. but if they straggle to pick flower or hunt lizard they be sometimes carry off. mowgli go through the village street in the dawn sit on the back of rama the great herd bull. the slaty blue buffalo with their long backward sweep horn and savage eye rise out their byre one by one and follow him and mowgli make it very clear to the child with him that he be the master. he beat the buffalo with a long polish bamboo and tell kamya one of the boy to graze the cattle by themselves while he go on with the buffalo and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd. 
an indian graze grind be all rock and scrub and tussock and little ravine among which the herd scatter and disappear. the buffalo generally keep to the pool and muddy place where they lie wallow or bask in the warm mud for hour. mowgli drive them on to the edge of the plain where the waingunga come out of the jungle. then he drop from rama s neck trot off to a bamboo clump and find gray brother. ah say gray brother i have wait here very many day. what be the mean of this cattle herd work. 
it be an order say mowgli. i be a village herd for a while. what news of shere khan. 
he ha come back to this country and ha wait here a long time for thee. now he ha go off again for the game be scarce. but he mean to kill thee. 
very good say mowgli. so long a he be away do thou or one of the four brother sit on that rock so that i can see thee a i come out of the village. when he come back wait for me in the ravine by the dhak tree in the center of the plain. we need not walk into shere khan s mouth. 
then mowgli pick out a shady place and lay down and sleep while the buffalo graze round him. herd in india be one of the lazy thing in the world. the cattle move and crunch and lie down and move on again and they do not even low. they only grunt and the buffalo very seldom say anything but get down into the muddy pool one after another and work their way into the mud till only their nose and star china blue eye show above the surface and then they lie like log. the sun make the rock dance in the heat and the herd child hear one kite. never any more. whistle almost out of sight overhead and they know that if they die or a cow die that kite would sweep down and the next kite mile away would see him drop and follow and the next and the next and almost before they be dead there would be a score of hungry kite come out of nowhere. then they sleep and wake and sleep again and weave little basket of dry grass and put grasshopper in them. or catch two pray mantis and make them fight. or string a necklace of red and black jungle nut. or watch a lizard bask on a rock or a snake hunt a frog near the wallow. then they sing long long song with odd native quaver at the end of them and the day seem long than most people s whole life and perhaps they make a mud castle with mud figure of men and horse and buffalo and put reed into the men s hand and pretend that they be king and the figure be their army or that they be god to be worship. then even come and the child call and the buffalo lumber up out of the sticky mud with noise like gunshot go off one after the other and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkle village light. 
day after day mowgli would lead the buffalo out to their wallow and day after day he would see gray brother s back a mile and a half away across the plain. so he know that shere khan have not come back. and day after day he would lie on the grass listen to the noise round him and dream of old day in the jungle. if shere khan have make a false step with his lame paw up in the jungle by the waingunga mowgli would have hear him in those long still morning. 
at last a day come when he do not see gray brother at the signal place and he laugh and head the buffalo for the ravine by the dhk tree which be all cover with golden red flower. there sit gray brother every bristle on his back lift. 
he ha hide for a month to throw thee off thy guard. he cross the range last night with tabaqui hot foot on thy trail say the wolf pant. 
mowgli frown. i be not afraid of shere khan but tabaqui be very cunning. 
have no fear say gray brother lick his lip a little. i meet tabaqui in the dawn. now he be tell all his wisdom to the kite but he tell me everything before i break his back. shere khan s plan be to wait for thee at the village gate this even for thee and for no one else. he be lie up now in the big dry ravine of the waingunga. 
ha he eat today or doe he hunt empty. say mowgli for the answer mean life and death to him. 
he kill at dawn a pig and he ha drink too. remember shere khan could never fast even for the sake of revenge. 
oh. fool fool. what a cub s cub it be. eat and drink too and he think that i shall wait till he ha sleep. now where doe he lie up. if there be but ten of u we might pull him down a he lie. these buffalo will not charge unless they wind him and i cannot speak their language. can we get behind his track so that they may smell it. 
he swim far down the waingunga to cut that off say gray brother. 
tabaqui tell him that i know. he would never have think of it alone. mowgli stand with his finger in his mouth think. the big ravine of the waingunga. that open out on the plain not half a mile from here. i can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down but he would slink out at the foot. we must block that end. gray brother canst thou cut the herd in two for me. 
not i perhaps but i have bring a wise helper. gray brother trot off and drop into a hole. then there lift up a huge gray head that mowgli know well and the hot air be fill with the most desolate cry of all the jungle the hunt howl of a wolf at midday. 
akela. akela. say mowgli clap his hand. i might have know that thou wouldst not forget me. we have a big work in hand. cut the herd in two akela. keep the cow and calf together and the bull and the plow buffalo by themselves. 
the two wolf run lady chain fashion in and out of the herd which snort and throw up it head and separate into two clump. in one the cow buffalo stand with their calf in the center and glare and paw ready if a wolf would only stay still to charge down and trample the life out of him. in the other the bull and the young bull snort and stamp but though they look more impose they be much le dangerous for they have no calf to protect. no six men could have divide the herd so neatly. 
what order. pant akela. they be try to join again. 
mowgli slip on to rama s back. drive the bull away to the leave akela. gray brother when we be go hold the cow together and drive them into the foot of the ravine. 
how far. say gray brother pant and snap. 
till the side be high than shere khan can jump shout mowgli. keep them there till we come down. the bull sweep off a akela bay and gray brother stop in front of the cow. they charge down on him and he run just before them to the foot of the ravine a akela drive the bull far to the leave. 
well do. another charge and they be fairly start. careful now careful akela. a snap too much and the bull will charge. hujah. this be wild work than drive black buck. didst thou think these creature could move so swiftly. mowgli call. 
i have have hunt these too in my time gasp akela in the dust. shall i turn them into the jungle. 
ay. turn. swiftly turn them. rama be mad with rage. oh if i could only tell him what i need of him to day. 
the bull be turn to the right this time and crash into the stand thicket. the other herd child watch with the cattle half a mile away hurry to the village a fast a their leg could carry them cry that the buffalo have go mad and run away. 
but mowgli s plan be simple enough. all he want to do be to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine and then take the bull down it and catch shere khan between the bull and the cow. for he know that after a meal and a full drink shere khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the side of the ravine. he be soothe the buffalo now by voice and akela have drop far to the rear only whimper once or twice to hurry the rear guard. it be a long long circle for they do not wish to get too near the ravine and give shere khan warn. at last mowgli round up the bewilder herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that slop steeply down to the ravine itself. from that height you could see across the top of the tree down to the plain below. but what mowgli look at be the side of the ravine and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they run nearly straight up and down while the vine and creeper that hang over them would give no foothold to a tiger who want to get out. 
let them breathe akela he say hold up his hand. they have not wind him yet. let them breathe. i must tell shere khan who come. we have him in the trap. 
he put his hand to his mouth and shout down the ravine it be almost like shout down a tunnel and the echo jump from rock to rock. 
after a long time there come back the drawl sleepy snarl of a full feed tiger just waken. 
who call. say shere khan and a splendid peacock flutter up out of the ravine screech. 
i mowgli. cattle thief it be time to come to the council rock. down hurry them down akela. down rama down. 
the herd pause for an instant at the edge of the slope but akela give tongue in the full hunt yell and they pitch over one after the other just a steamer shoot rapid the sand and stone spurt up round them. once start there be no chance of stop and before they be fairly in the bed of the ravine rama wind shere khan and bellow. 
ha. ha. say mowgli on his back. now thou knowest. and the torrent of black horn foam muzzle and star eye whirl down the ravine just a boulder go down in floodtime. the weak buffalo be shoulder out to the side of the ravine where they tear through the creeper. they know what the business be before them the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand. shere khan hear the thunder of their hoof pick himself up and lumber down the ravine look from side to side for some way of escape but the wall of the ravine be straight and he have to hold on heavy with his dinner and his drink will to do anything rather than fight. the herd splash through the pool he have just leave bellow till the narrow cut ring. mowgli hear an answer bellow from the foot of the ravine saw shere khan turn. the tiger know if the bad come to the bad it be good to meet the bull than the cow with their calf. and then rama trip stumble and go on again over something soft and with the bull at his heel crash full into the other herd while the weak buffalo be lift clean off their foot by the shock of the meet. that charge carry both herd out into the plain gore and stamp and snort. mowgli watch his time and slip off rama s neck lay about him right and leave with his stick. 
quick akela. break them up. scatter them or they will be fight one another. drive them away akela. hai rama. hai hai hai. my child. softly now softly. it be all over. 
akela and gray brother run to and fro nip the buffalo leg and though the herd wheel once to charge up the ravine again mowgli manage to turn rama and the others follow him to the wallow. 
shere khan need no more trample. he be dead and the kite be come for him already. 
brother that be a dog s death say mowgli feel for the knife he always carry in a sheath round his neck now that he live with men. but he would never have show fight. his hide will look well on the council rock. we must get to work swiftly. 
a boy train among men would never have dream of skin a ten foot tiger alone but mowgli know good than anyone else how an animal s skin be fit on and how it can be take off. but it be hard work and mowgli slash and tear and grunt for an hour while the wolf loll out their tongue or come forward and tug a he order them. presently a hand fell on his shoulder and look up he saw buldeo with the tower musket. the child have tell the village about the buffalo stampede and buldeo go out angrily only too anxious to correct mowgli for not take good care of the herd. the wolf drop out of sight a soon a they saw the man come. 
what be this folly. say buldeo angrily. to think that thou canst skin a tiger. where do the buffalo kill him. it be the lame tiger too and there be a hundred rupee on his head. well well we will overlook thy let the herd run off and perhaps i will give thee one of the rupee of the reward when i have take the skin to khanhiwara. he fumble in his waist cloth for flint and steel and stoop down to singe shere khan s whisker. most native hunter always singe a tiger s whisker to prevent his ghost from haunt them. 
hum. say mowgli half to himself a he rip back the skin of a forepaw. so thou wilt take the hide to khanhiwara for the reward and perhaps give me one rupee. now it be in my mind that i need the skin for my own use. heh. old man take away that fire. 
what talk be this to the chief hunter of the village. thy luck and the stupidity of thy buffalo have help thee to this kill. the tiger ha just feed or he would have go twenty mile by this time. thou canst not even skin him properly little beggar brat and forsooth i buldeo must be tell not to singe his whisker. mowgli i will not give thee one anna of the reward but only a very big beat. leave the carcass. 
by the bull that buy me say mowgli who be try to get at the shoulder must i stay babble to an old ape all noon. here akela this man plague me. 
buldeo who be still stoop over shere khan s head find himself sprawl on the grass with a gray wolf stand over him while mowgli go on skin a though he be alone in all india. 
ye e he say between his teeth. thou art altogether right buldeo. thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward. there be an old war between this lame tiger and myself a very old war and i have win. 
to do buldeo justice if he have be ten year young he would have take his chance with akela have he meet the wolf in the wood but a wolf who obey the order of this boy who have private war with man eat tiger be not a common animal. it be sorcery magic of the bad kind think buldeo and he wonder whether the amulet round his neck would protect him. he lay a still a still expect every minute to see mowgli turn into a tiger too. 
maharaj. great king he say at last in a husky whisper. 
yes say mowgli without turn his head chuckle a little. 
i be an old man. i do not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy. may i rise up and go away or will thy servant tear me to piece. 
go and peace go with thee. only another time do not meddle with my game. let him go akela. 
buldeo hobble away to the village a fast a he could look back over his shoulder in case mowgli should change into something terrible. when he get to the village he tell a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that make the priest look very grave. 
mowgli go on with his work but it be nearly twilight before he and the wolf have draw the great gay skin clear of the body. 
now we must hide this and take the buffalo home. help me to herd them akela. 
the herd round up in the misty twilight and when they get near the village mowgli saw light and hear the conch and bell in the temple blow and bang. half the village seem to be wait for him by the gate. that be because i have kill shere khan he say to himself. but a shower of stone whistle about his ear and the villager shout. sorcerer. wolf s brat. jungle demon. go away. get hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again. shoot buldeo shoot. 
the old tower musket go off with a bang and a young buffalo bellow in pain. 
more sorcery. shout the villager. he can turn bullet. buldeo that be thy buffalo. 
now what be this. say mowgli bewilder a the stone fly thick. 
they be not unlike the pack these brother of thine say akela sit down composedly. it be in my head that if bullet mean anything they would cast thee out. 
wolf. wolf s cub. go away. shout the priest wave a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant. 
again. last time it be because i be a man. this time it be because i be a wolf. let u go akela. 
a woman it be messua run across to the herd and cry. oh my son my son. they say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will. i do not believe but go away or they will kill thee. buldeo say thou art a wizard but i know thou hast avenge nathoo s death. 
come back messua. shout the crowd. come back or we will stone thee. 
mowgli laugh a little short ugly laugh for a stone have hit him in the mouth. run back messua. this be one of the foolish tale they tell under the big tree at dusk. i have at least pay for thy son s life. farewell. and run quickly for i shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbat. i be no wizard messua. farewell. 
now once more akela he cry. bring the herd in. 
the buffalo be anxious enough to get to the village. they hardly need akela s yell but charge through the gate like a whirlwind scatter the crowd right and leave. 
keep count. shout mowgli scornfully. it may be that i have steal one of them. keep count for i will do your herd no more. fare you well child of men and thank messua that i do not come in with my wolf and hunt you up and down your street. 
he turn on his heel and walk away with the lone wolf and a he look up at the star he felt happy. no more sleep in trap for me akela. let u get shere khan s skin and go away. no we will not hurt the village for messua be kind to me. 
when the moon rise over the plain make it look all milky the horrify villager saw mowgli with two wolf at his heel and a bundle on his head trot across at the steady wolf s trot that eat up the long mile like fire. then they bang the temple bell and blow the conch loud than ever. and messua cry and buldeo embroider the story of his adventure in the jungle till he end by say that akela stand up on his hind leg and talk like a man. 
the moon be just go down when mowgli and the two wolf come to the hill of the council rock and they stop at mother wolf s cave. 
they have cast me out from the man pack mother shout mowgli but i come with the hide of shere khan to keep my word. 
mother wolf walk stiffly from the cave with the cub behind her and her eye glow a she saw the skin. 
i tell him on that day when he cram his head and shoulder into this cave hunt for thy life little frog i tell him that the hunter would be the hunt. it be well do. 
little brother it be well do say a deep voice in the thicket. we be lonely in the jungle without thee and bagheera come run to mowgli s bare foot. they clamber up the council rock together and mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where akela use to sit and peg it down with four sliver of bamboo and akela lay down upon it and call the old call to the council look look well o wolf exactly a he have call when mowgli be first bring there. 
ever since akela have be depose the pack have be without a leader hunt and fight at their own pleasure. but they answer the call from habit. and some of them be lame from the trap they have fall into and some limp from shoot wound and some be mangy from eat bad food and many be miss. but they come to the council rock all that be leave of them and saw shere khan s strip hide on the rock and the huge claw dangle at the end of the empty dangle foot. it be then that mowgli make up a song that come up into his throat all by itself and he shout it aloud leap up and down on the rattle skin and beat time with his heel till he have no more breath leave while gray brother and akela howl between the verse. 
look well o wolf. have i keep my word. say mowgli. and the wolf bay yes and one tattered wolf howl. 
lead u again o akela. lead u again o man cub for we be sick of this lawlessness and we would be the free people once more. 
nay purr bagheera that may not be. when ye be full feed the madness may come upon you again. not for nothing be ye call the free people. ye fight for freedom and it be yours. eat it o wolf. 
man pack and wolf pack have cast me out say mowgli. now i will hunt alone in the jungle. 
and we will hunt with thee say the four cub. 
so mowgli go away and hunt with the four cub in the jungle from that day on. but he be not always alone because year afterward he become a man and marry. 
but that be a story for grow up. 
mowgli s song. 
that he sing at the council rock when he dance on shere khan s hide. 
the song of mowgli i mowgli be sing. let the jungle listen to the thing i have do. 
shere khan say he would kill would kill. at the gate in the twilight he would kill mowgli the frog. 
he eat and he drink. drink deep shere khan for when wilt thou drink again. sleep and dream of the kill. 
i be alone on the graze ground. gray brother come to me. come to me lone wolf for there be big game afoot. 
bring up the great bull buffalo the blue skin herd bull with the angry eye. drive them to and fro a i order. 
sleepest thou still shere khan. wake oh wake. here come i and the bull be behind. 
rama the king of the buffalo stamp with his foot. water of the waingunga whither go shere khan. 
he be not ikki to dig hole nor mao the peacock that he should fly. he be not mang the bat to hang in the branch. little bamboo that creak together tell me where he run. 
ow. he be there. ahoo. he be there. under the foot of rama lie the lame one. up shere khan. 
up and kill. here be meat. break the neck of the bull. 
hsh. he be asleep. we will not wake him for his strength be very great. the kite have come down to see it. the black ant have come up to know it. there be a great assembly in his honor. 
alala. i have no cloth to wrap me. the kite will see that i be naked. i be ashamed to meet all these people. 
lend me thy coat shere khan. lend me thy gay strip coat that i may go to the council rock. 
by the bull that buy me i make a promise a little promise. only thy coat be lack before i keep my word. 
with the knife with the knife that men use with the knife of the hunter i will stoop down for my gift. 
water of the waingunga shere khan give me his coat for the love that he bear me. pull gray brother. pull akela. heavy be the hide of shere khan. 
the man pack be angry. they throw stone and talk child s talk. my mouth be bleed. let me run away. 
through the night through the hot night run swiftly with me my brother. we will leave the light of the village and go to the low moon. 
water of the waingunga the man pack have cast me out. i do them no harm but they be afraid of me. why. 
wolf pack ye have cast me out too. the jungle be shut to me and the village gate be shut. why. 
a mang fly between the beast and bird so fly i between the village and the jungle. why. 
i dance on the hide of shere khan but my heart be very heavy. my mouth be cut and wound with the stone from the village but my heart be very light because i have come back to the jungle. why. 
these two thing fight together in me a the snake fight in the spring. the water come out of my eye. yet i laugh while it fall. why. 
i be two mowglis but the hide of shere khan be under my foot. 
all the jungle know that i have kill shere khan. look look well o wolf. 
ahae. my heart be heavy with the thing that i do not understand. 
the white seal. 
oh. hush thee my baby the night be behind u and black be the water that sparkle so green. the moon o er the comber look downward to find u at rest in the hollow that rustle between. where billow meet billow then soft be thy pillow ah weary wee flipperling curl at thy ease. the storm shall not wake thee nor shark overtake thee asleep in the arm of the slow swing sea. 
seal lullaby. 
all these thing happen several year ago at a place call novastoshnah or north east point on the island of st. paul away and away in the bering sea. limmershin the winter wren tell me the tale when he be blow on to the rig of a steamer go to japan and i take him down into my cabin and warm and feed him for a couple of day till he be fit to fly back to st. paul s again. limmershin be a very quaint little bird but he know how to tell the truth. 
nobody come to novastoshnah except on business and the only people who have regular business there be the seal. they come in the summer month by hundred and hundred of thousand out of the cold gray sea. for novastoshnah beach ha the fine accommodation for seal of any place in all the world. 
sea catch know that and every spring would swim from whatever place he happen to be in would swim like a torpedo boat straight for novastoshnah and spend a month fight with his companion for a good place on the rock a close to the sea a possible. sea catch be fifteen year old a huge gray fur seal with almost a mane on his shoulder and long wicked dog teeth. when he heave himself up on his front flipper he stand more than four foot clear of the grind and his weight if anyone have be bold enough to weigh him be nearly seven hundred pound. he be scar all over with the mark of savage fight but he be always ready for just one fight more. he would put his head on one side a though he be afraid to look his enemy in the face. then he would shoot it out like lightning and when the big teeth be firmly fix on the other seal s neck the other seal might get away if he could but sea catch would not help him. 
yet sea catch never chase a beat seal for that be against the rule of the beach. he only want room by the sea for his nursery. but a there be forty or fifty thousand other seal hunt for the same thing each spring the whistle bellow roar and blow on the beach be something frightful. 
from a little hill call hutchinson s hill you could look over three and a half mile of grind cover with fight seal. and the surf be dot all over with the head of seal hurry to land and begin their share of the fight. they fight in the breaker they fight in the sand and they fight on the smooth wear basalt rock of the nursery for they be just a stupid and unaccommodating a men. their wife never come to the island until late in may or early in june for they do not care to be tear to piece. and the young two three and four year old seal who have not begin housekeep go inland about half a mile through the rank of the fighter and play about on the sand dune in drove and legion and rub off every single green thing that grow. they be call the holluschickie the bachelor and there be perhaps two or three hundred thousand of them at novastoshnah alone. 
sea catch have just finish his forty fifth fight one spring when matkah his soft sleek gentle eye wife come up out of the sea and he catch her by the scruff of the neck and dump her down on his reservation say gruffly. late a usual. where have you be. 
it be not the fashion for sea catch to eat anything during the four month he stay on the beach and so his temper be generally bad. matkah know good than to answer back. she look round and coo. how thoughtful of you. you ve take the old place again. 
i should think i have say sea catch. look at me. 
he be scratch and bleed in twenty place. one eye be almost out and his side be tear to ribbon. 
oh you men you men. matkah say fan herself with her hind flipper. why can t you be sensible and settle your place quietly. you look a though you have be fight with the killer whale. 
i haven t be do anything but fight since the middle of may. the beach be disgracefully crowd this season. i ve meet at least a hundred seal from lukannon beach house hunt. why can t people stay where they belong. 
i ve often think we should be much happy if we haul out at otter island instead of this crowd place say matkah. 
bah. only the holluschickie go to otter island. if we go there they would say we be afraid. we must preserve appearance my dear. 
sea catch sink his head proudly between his fat shoulder and pretend to go to sleep for a few minute but all the time he be keep a sharp lookout for a fight. now that all the seal and their wife be on the land you could hear their clamor mile out to sea above the loud gale. at the low count there be over a million seal on the beach old seal mother seal tiny baby and holluschickie fight scuffle bleat crawl and play together go down to the sea and come up from it in gang and regiment lie over every foot of grind a far a the eye could reach and skirmish about in brigade through the fog. it be nearly always foggy at novastoshnah except when the sun come out and make everything look all pearly and rainbow color for a little while. 
kotick matkah s baby be bear in the middle of that confusion and he be all head and shoulder with pale watery blue eye a tiny seal must be but there be something about his coat that make his mother look at him very closely. 
sea catch she say at last our baby s go to be white. 
empty clam shell and dry seaweed. snort sea catch. there never ha be such a thing in the world a a white seal. 
i can t help that say matkah. there s go to be now. and she sing the low croon seal song that all the mother seal sing to their baby. 
you mustn t swim till you re six week old or your head will be sink by your heel. and summer gale and killer whale be bad for baby seal. 
be bad for baby seal dear rat a bad a bad can be. but splash and grow strong and you can t be wrong. child of the open sea. 
of course the little fellow do not understand the word at first. he paddle and scramble about by his mother s side and learn to scuffle out of the way when his father be fight with another seal and the two roll and roar up and down the slippery rock. matkah use to go to sea to get thing to eat and the baby be feed only once in two day but then he eat all he could and thrive upon it. 
the first thing he do be to crawl inland and there he meet ten of thousand of baby of his own age and they play together like puppy go to sleep on the clean sand and play again. the old people in the nursery take no notice of them and the holluschickie keep to their own ground and the baby have a beautiful playtime. 
when matkah come back from her deep sea fish she would go straight to their playground and call a a sheep call for a lamb and wait until she hear kotick bleat. then she would take the straight of straight line in his direction strike out with her fore flipper and knock the youngster head over heel right and leave. there be always a few hundred mother hunt for their child through the playground and the baby be keep lively. but a matkah tell kotick so long a you don t lie in muddy water and get mange or rub the hard sand into a cut or scratch and so long a you never go swim when there be a heavy sea nothing will hurt you here. 
little seal can no more swim than little child but they be unhappy till they learn. the first time that kotick go down to the sea a wave carry him out beyond his depth and his big head sink and his little hind flipper fly up exactly a his mother have tell him in the song and if the next wave have not throw him back again he would have drown. 
after that he learn to lie in a beach pool and let the wash of the wave just cover him and lift him up while he paddle but he always keep his eye open for big wave that might hurt. he be two week learn to use his flipper. and all that while he flounder in and out of the water and cough and grunt and crawl up the beach and take catnap on the sand and go back again until at last he find that he truly belong to the water. 
then you can imagine the time that he have with his companion duck under the roller. or come in on top of a comber and land with a swash and a splutter a the big wave go whirl far up the beach. or stand up on his tail and scratch his head a the old people do. or play i m the king of the castle on slippery weedy rock that just stick out of the wash. now and then he would see a thin fin like a big shark s fin drift along close to shore and he know that that be the killer whale the grampus who eat young seal when he can get them. and kotick would head for the beach like an arrow and the fin would jig off slowly a if it be look for nothing at all. 
late in october the seal begin to leave st. paul s for the deep sea by family and tribe and there be no more fight over the nursery and the holluschickie play anywhere they like. next year say matkah to kotick you will be a holluschickie. but this year you must learn how to catch fish. 
they set out together across the pacific and matkah show kotick how to sleep on his back with his flipper tuck down by his side and his little nose just out of the water. no cradle be so comfortable a the long rock swell of the pacific. when kotick felt his skin tingle all over matkah tell him he be learn the feel of the water and that tingly prickly feeling mean bad weather come and he must swim hard and get away. 
in a little time she say you ll know where to swim to but just now we ll follow sea pig the porpoise for he be very wise. a school of porpoise be duck and tear through the water and little kotick follow them a fast a he could. how do you know where to go to. he pant. the leader of the school roll his white eye and duck under. my tail tingle youngster he say. that mean there s a gale behind me. come along. when you re south of the sticky water [he mean the equator] and your tail tingle that mean there s a gale in front of you and you must head north. come along. the water feel bad here. 
this be one of very many thing that kotick learn and he be always learn. matkah teach him to follow the cod and the halibut along the under sea bank and wrench the rockling out of his hole among the weed. how to skirt the wreck lie a hundred fathom below water and dart like a rifle bullet in at one porthole and out at another a the fish run. how to dance on the top of the wave when the lightning be race all over the sky and wave his flipper politely to the stumpy tail albatross and the man of war hawk a they go down the wind. how to jump three or four foot clear of the water like a dolphin flipper close to the side and tail curve. to leave the fly fish alone because they be all bony. to take the shoulder piece out of a cod at full speed ten fathom deep and never to stop and look at a boat or a ship but particularly a row boat. at the end of six month what kotick do not know about deep sea fish be not worth the know. and all that time he never set flipper on dry grind. 
one day however a he be lie half asleep in the warm water somewhere off the island of juan fernandez he felt faint and lazy all over just a human people do when the spring be in their leg and he remember the good firm beach of novastoshnah seven thousand mile away the game his companion play the smell of the seaweed the seal roar and the fight. that very minute he turn north swim steadily and a he go on he meet score of his mate all bind for the same place and they say. greet kotick. this year we be all holluschickie and we can dance the fire dance in the breaker off lukannon and play on the new grass. but where do you get that coat. 
kotick s fur be almost pure white now and though he felt very proud of it he only say swim quickly. my bone be ache for the land. and so they all come to the beach where they have be bear and hear the old seal their father fight in the roll mist. 
that night kotick dance the fire dance with the yearling seal. the sea be full of fire on summer night all the way down from novastoshnah to lukannon and each seal leaf a wake like burn oil behind him and a flame flash when he jump and the wave break in great phosphorescent streak and swirl. then they go inland to the holluschickie ground and roll up and down in the new wild wheat and tell story of what they have do while they have be at sea. they talk about the pacific a boy would talk about a wood that they have be nut in and if anyone have understand them he could have go away and make such a chart of that ocean a never be. the three and four year old holluschickie romp down from hutchinson s hill cry. out of the way youngster. the sea be deep and you don t know all that s in it yet. wait till you ve round the horn. hi you yearling where do you get that white coat. 
i didn t get it say kotick. it grow. and just a he be go to roll the speaker over a couple of black haired men with flat red face come from behind a sand dune and kotick who have never see a man before cough and lower his head. the holluschickie just bundle off a few yard and sit star stupidly. the men be no le than kerick booterin the chief of the seal hunter on the island and patalamon his son. they come from the little village not half a mile from the sea nursery and they be decide what seal they would drive up to the kill pen for the seal be drive just like sheep to be turn into seal skin jacket late on. 
ho. say patalamon. look. there s a white seal. 
kerick booterin turn nearly white under his oil and smoke for he be an aleut and aleut be not clean people. then he begin to mutter a prayer. don t touch him patalamon. there ha never be a white seal since since i be bear. perhaps it be old zaharrof s ghost. he be lose last year in the big gale. 
i m not go near him say patalamon. he s unlucky. do you really think he be old zaharrof come back. i owe him for some gull egg. 
don t look at him say kerick. head off that drive of four year old. the men ought to skin two hundred to day but it s the begin of the season and they be new to the work. a hundred will do. quick. 
patalamon rattle a pair of seal s shoulder bone in front of a herd of holluschickie and they stop dead puff and blow. then he step near and the seal begin to move and kerick head them inland and they never try to get back to their companion. hundred and hundred of thousand of seal watch them be drive but they go on play just the same. kotick be the only one who ask question and none of his companion could tell him anything except that the men always drive seal in that way for six week or two month of every year. 
i be go to follow he say and his eye nearly pop out of his head a he shuffle along in the wake of the herd. 
the white seal be come after u cry patalamon. that s the first time a seal ha ever come to the kill ground alone. 
hsh. don t look behind you say kerick. it be zaharrof s ghost. i must speak to the priest about this. 
the distance to the kill ground be only half a mile but it take an hour to cover because if the seal go too fast kerick know that they would get heat and then their fur would come off in patch when they be skin. so they go on very slowly past sea lion s neck past webster house till they come to the salt house just beyond the sight of the seal on the beach. kotick follow pant and wonder. he think that he be at the world s end but the roar of the seal nursery behind him sound a loud a the roar of a train in a tunnel. then kerick sit down on the moss and pull out a heavy pewter watch and let the drive cool off for thirty minute and kotick could hear the fog dew drip off the brim of his cap. then ten or twelve men each with an iron bind club three or four foot long come up and kerick point out one or two of the drive that be bite by their companion or too hot and the men kick those aside with their heavy boot make of the skin of a walrus s throat and then kerick say let go. and then the men club the seal on the head a fast a they could. 
ten minute late little kotick do not recognize his friend any more for their skin be rip off from the nose to the hind flipper whip off and throw down on the grind in a pile. that be enough for kotick. he turn and gallop. a seal can gallop very swiftly for a short time. back to the sea. his little new mustache bristle with horror. at sea lion s neck where the great sea lion sit on the edge of the surf he fling himself flipper overhead into the cool water and rock there gasp miserably. what s here. say a sea lion gruffly for a a rule the sea lion keep themselves to themselves. 
scoochnie. ochen scoochnie. i m lonesome very lonesome. say kotick. they re kill all the holluschickie on all the beach. 
the sea lion turn his head inshore. nonsense. he say. your friend be make a much noise a ever. you must have see old kerick polish off a drive. he s do that for thirty year. 
it s horrible say kotick back water a a wave go over him and steady himself with a screw stroke of his flipper that bring him all stand within three inch of a jag edge of rock. 
well do for a yearling. say the sea lion who could appreciate good swim. i suppose it be rather awful from your way of look at it but if you seal will come here year after year of course the men get to know of it and unless you can find an island where no men ever come you will always be drive. 
isn t there any such island. begin kotick. 
i ve follow the poltoos [the halibut] for twenty year and i can t say i ve find it yet. but look here you seem to have a fondness for talk to your better suppose you go to walrus islet and talk to sea vitch. he may know something. don t flounce off like that. it s a six mile swim and if i be you i should haul out and take a nap first little one. 
kotick think that that be good advice so he swim round to his own beach haul out and sleep for half an hour twitch all over a seal will. then he head straight for walrus islet a little low sheet of rocky island almost due northeast from novastoshnah all ledge and rock and gull nest where the walrus herd by themselves. 
he land close to old sea vitch the big ugly bloat pimpled fat neck long tusk walrus of the north pacific who ha no manner except when he be asleep a he be then with his hind flipper half in and half out of the surf. 
wake up. bark kotick for the gull be make a great noise. 
hah. ho. hmph. what s that. say sea vitch and he strike the next walrus a blow with his tusk and wake him up and the next strike the next and so on till they be all awake and star in every direction but the right one. 
hi. it s me say kotick bob in the surf and look like a little white slug. 
well. may i be skin. say sea vitch and they all look at kotick a you can fancy a club full of drowsy old gentleman would look at a little boy. kotick do not care to hear any more about skin just then. he have see enough of it. so he call out. isn t there any place for seal to go where men don t ever come. 
go and find out say sea vitch shut his eye. run away. we re busy here. 
kotick make his dolphin jump in the air and shout a loud a he could. clam eater. clam eater. he know that sea vitch never catch a fish in his life but always root for clam and seaweed. though he pretend to be a very terrible person. naturally the chickies and the gooverooskies and the epatkas the burgomaster gull and the kittiwake and the puffin who be always look for a chance to be rude take up the cry and so limmershin tell me for nearly five minute you could not have hear a gun fire on walrus islet. all the population be yell and scream clam eater. stareek [old man]. while sea vitch roll from side to side grunt and cough. 
now will you tell. say kotick all out of breath. 
go and ask sea cow say sea vitch. if he be live still he ll be able to tell you. 
how shall i know sea cow when i meet him. say kotick sheer off. 
he s the only thing in the sea ugly than sea vitch scream a burgomaster gull wheel under sea vitch s nose. ugly and with bad manner. stareek. 
kotick swim back to novastoshnah leave the gull to scream. there he find that no one sympathize with him in his little attempt to discover a quiet place for the seal. they tell him that men have always drive the holluschickie it be part of the day s work and that if he do not like to see ugly thing he should not have go to the kill ground. but none of the other seal have see the kill and that make the difference between him and his friend. besides kotick be a white seal. 
what you must do say old sea catch after he have hear his son s adventure be to grow up and be a big seal like your father and have a nursery on the beach and then they will leave you alone. in another five year you ought to be able to fight for yourself. even gentle matkah his mother say. you will never be able to stop the kill. go and play in the sea kotick. and kotick go off and dance the fire dance with a very heavy little heart. 
that autumn he leave the beach a soon a he could and set off alone because of a notion in his bullet head. he be go to find sea cow if there be such a person in the sea and he be go to find a quiet island with good firm beach for seal to live on where men could not get at them. so he explore and explore by himself from the north to the south pacific swim a much a three hundred mile in a day and a night. he meet with more adventure than can be tell and narrowly escape be catch by the bask shark and the spot shark and the hammerhead and he meet all the untrustworthy ruffian that loaf up and down the sea and the heavy polite fish and the scarlet spot scallop that be moor in one place for hundred of year and grow very proud of it. but he never meet sea cow and he never find an island that he could fancy. 
if the beach be good and hard with a slope behind it for seal to play on there be always the smoke of a whaler on the horizon boil down blubber and kotick know what that mean. or else he could see that seal have once visit the island and be kill off and kotick know that where men have come once they would come again. 
he pick up with an old stumpy tail albatross who tell him that kerguelen island be the very place for peace and quiet and when kotick go down there he be all but smash to piece against some wicked black cliff in a heavy sleet storm with lightning and thunder. yet a he pull out against the gale he could see that even there have once be a seal nursery. and it be so in all the other island that he visit. 
limmershin give a long list of them for he say that kotick spend five season explore with a four month rest each year at novastoshnah when the holluschickie use to make fun of him and his imaginary island. he go to the gallapagos a horrid dry place on the equator where he be nearly bake to death. he go to the georgia island the orkneys emerald island little nightingale island gough s island bouvet s island the crossets and even to a little speck of an island south of the cape of good hope. but everywhere the people of the sea tell him the same thing. seal have come to those island once upon a time but men have kill them all off. even when he swim thousand of mile out of the pacific and get to a place call cape corrientes. that be when he be come back from gough s island. he find a few hundred mangy seal on a rock and they tell him that men come there too. 
that nearly break his heart and he head round the horn back to his own beach. and on his way north he haul out on an island full of green tree where he find an old old seal who be die and kotick catch fish for him and tell him all his sorrow. now say kotick i be go back to novastoshnah and if i be drive to the kill pen with the holluschickie i shall not care. 
the old seal say try once more. i be the last of the lose rookery of masafuera and in the day when men kill u by the hundred thousand there be a story on the beach that some day a white seal would come out of the north and lead the seal people to a quiet place. i be old and i shall never live to see that day but others will. try once more. 
and kotick curl up his mustache. it be a beauty. and say i be the only white seal that ha ever be bear on the beach and i be the only seal black or white who ever think of look for new island. 
this cheer him immensely. and when he come back to novastoshnah that summer matkah his mother beg him to marry and settle down for he be no long a holluschick but a full grow sea catch with a curly white mane on his shoulder a heavy a big and a fierce a his father. give me another season he say. remember mother it be always the seventh wave that go farthest up the beach. 
curiously enough there be another seal who think that she would put off marry till the next year and kotick dance the fire dance with her all down lukannon beach the night before he set off on his last exploration. this time he go westward because he have fall on the trail of a great shoal of halibut and he need at least one hundred pound of fish a day to keep him in good condition. he chase them till he be tire and then he curl himself up and go to sleep on the hollow of the grind swell that set in to copper island. he know the coast perfectly well so about midnight when he felt himself gently bump on a weed bed he say hm tide s run strong tonight and turn over under water open his eye slowly and stretch. then he jump like a cat for he saw huge thing nose about in the shoal water and browse on the heavy fringe of the weed. 
by the great comber of magellan. he say beneath his mustache. who in the deep sea be these people. 
they be like no walrus sea lion seal bear whale shark fish squid or scallop that kotick have ever see before. they be between twenty and thirty foot long and they have no hind flipper but a shovel like tail that look a if it have be whittle out of wet leather. their head be the most foolish look thing you ever saw and they balance on the end of their tail in deep water when they weren t graze bow solemnly to each other and wave their front flipper a a fat man wave his arm. 
ahem. say kotick. good sport gentleman. the big thing answer by bow and wave their flipper like the frog footman. when they begin feed again kotick saw that their upper lip be split into two piece that they could twitch apart about a foot and bring together again with a whole bushel of seaweed between the split. they tuck the stuff into their mouth and chumped solemnly. 
messy style of feed that say kotick. they bow again and kotick begin to lose his temper. very good he say. if you do happen to have an extra joint in your front flipper you needn t show off so. i see you bow gracefully but i should like to know your name. the split lip move and twitch. and the glassy green eye star but they do not speak. 
well. say kotick. you re the only people i ve ever meet ugly than sea vitch and with bad manner. 
then he remember in a flash what the burgomaster gull have scream to him when he be a little yearling at walrus islet and he tumble backward in the water for he know that he have find sea cow at last. 
the sea cow go on schlooping and graze and chumping in the weed and kotick ask them question in every language that he have pick up in his travel. and the sea people talk nearly a many language a human being. but the sea cow do not answer because sea cow cannot talk. he ha only six bone in his neck where he ought to have seven and they say under the sea that that prevent him from speak even to his companion. but a you know he ha an extra joint in his foreflipper and by wave it up and down and about he make what answer to a sort of clumsy telegraphic code. 
by daylight kotick s mane be stand on end and his temper be go where the dead crab go. then the sea cow begin to travel northward very slowly stop to hold absurd bow council from time to time and kotick follow them say to himself people who be such idiot a these be would have be kill long ago if they hadn t find out some safe island. and what be good enough for the sea cow be good enough for the sea catch. all the same i wish they d hurry. 
it be weary work for kotick. the herd never go more than forty or fifty mile a day and stop to fee at night and keep close to the shore all the time. while kotick swim round them and over them and under them but he could not hurry them up one half mile. a they go farther north they hold a bow council every few hour and kotick nearly bite off his mustache with impatience till he saw that they be follow up a warm current of water and then he respect them more. 
one night they sink through the shiny water sink like stone and for the first time since he have know them begin to swim quickly. kotick follow and the pace astonish him for he never dream that sea cow be anything of a swimmer. they head for a cliff by the shore a cliff that run down into deep water and plunge into a dark hole at the foot of it twenty fathom under the sea. it be a long long swim and kotick badly want fresh air before he be out of the dark tunnel they lead him through. 
my wig. he say when he rise gasp and puff into open water at the farther end. it be a long dive but it be worth it. 
the sea cow have separate and be browse lazily along the edge of the fine beach that kotick have ever see. there be long stretch of smooth wear rock run for mile exactly fit to make seal nursery and there be play ground of hard sand slop inland behind them and there be roller for seal to dance in and long grass to roll in and sand dune to climb up and down and best of all kotick know by the feel of the water which never deceive a true sea catch that no men have ever come there. 
the first thing he do be to assure himself that the fish be good and then he swim along the beach and count up the delightful low sandy island half hide in the beautiful roll fog. away to the northward out to sea run a line of bar and shoal and rock that would never let a ship come within six mile of the beach and between the island and the mainland be a stretch of deep water that run up to the perpendicular cliff and somewhere below the cliff be the mouth of the tunnel. 
it s novastoshnah over again but ten time good say kotick. sea cow must be wise than i think. men can t come down the cliff even if there be any men. and the shoal to seaward would knock a ship to splinter. if any place in the sea be safe this be it. 
he begin to think of the seal he have leave behind him but though he be in a hurry to go back to novastoshnah he thoroughly explore the new country so that he would be able to answer all question. 
then he dive and make sure of the mouth of the tunnel and race through to the southward. no one but a sea cow or a seal would have dream of there be such a place and when he look back at the cliff even kotick could hardly believe that he have be under them. 
he be six day go home though he be not swim slowly. and when he haul out just above sea lion s neck the first person he meet be the seal who have be wait for him and she saw by the look in his eye that he have find his island at last. 
but the holluschickie and sea catch his father and all the other seal laugh at him when he tell them what he have discover and a young seal about his own age say this be all very well kotick but you can t come from no one know where and order u off like this. remember we ve be fight for our nursery and that s a thing you never do. you prefer prowl about in the sea. 
the other seal laugh at this and the young seal begin twist his head from side to side. he have just marry that year and be make a great fuss about it. 
i ve no nursery to fight for say kotick. i only want to show you all a place where you will be safe. what s the use of fight. 
oh if you re try to back out of course i ve no more to say say the young seal with an ugly chuckle. 
will you come with me if i win. say kotick. and a green light come into his eye for he be very angry at have to fight at all. 
very good say the young seal carelessly. if you win i ll come. 
he have no time to change his mind for kotick s head be out and his teeth sink in the blubber of the young seal s neck. then he throw himself back on his haunch and haul his enemy down the beach shake him and knock him over. then kotick roar to the seal. i ve do my best for you these five season past. i ve find you the island where you ll be safe but unless your head be drag off your silly neck you win t believe. i m go to teach you now. look out for yourselves. 
limmershin tell me that never in his life and limmershin see ten thousand big seal fight every year never in all his little life do he see anything like kotick s charge into the nursery. he fling himself at the big sea catch he could find catch him by the throat choke him and bump him and bang him till he grunt for mercy and then throw him aside and attack the next. you see kotick have never fast for four month a the big seal do every year and his deep sea swim trip keep him in perfect condition and best of all he have never fight before. his curly white mane stand up with rage and his eye flame and his big dog teeth glisten and he be splendid to look at. old sea catch his father saw him tear past haul the grizzle old seal about a though they have be halibut and upset the young bachelor in all direction. and sea catch give a roar and shout. he may be a fool but he be the best fighter on the beach. don t tackle your father my son. he s with you. 
kotick roar in answer and old sea catch waddle in with his mustache on end blow like a locomotive while matkah and the seal that be go to marry kotick cower down and admire their men folk. it be a gorgeous fight for the two fight a long a there be a seal that dare lift up his head and when there be none they parade grandly up and down the beach side by side bellow. 
at night just a the northern light be wink and flash through the fog kotick climb a bare rock and look down on the scatter nursery and the tear and bleed seal. now he say i ve teach you your lesson. 
my wig. say old sea catch boost himself up stiffly for he be fearfully maul. the killer whale himself could not have cut them up bad. son i m proud of you and what s more i ll come with you to your island if there be such a place. 
hear you fat pig of the sea. who come with me to the sea cow s tunnel. answer or i shall teach you again roar kotick. 
there be a murmur like the ripple of the tide all up and down the beach. we will come say thousand of tire voice. we will follow kotick the white seal. 
then kotick drop his head between his shoulder and shut his eye proudly. he be not a white seal any more but red from head to tail. all the same he would have scorn to look at or touch one of his wound. 
a week late he and his army. nearly ten thousand holluschickie and old seal. go away north to the sea cow s tunnel kotick lead them and the seal that stay at novastoshnah call them idiot. but next spring when they all meet off the fish bank of the pacific kotick s seal tell such tale of the new beach beyond sea cow s tunnel that more and more seal leave novastoshnah. of course it be not all do at once for the seal be not very clever and they need a long time to turn thing over in their mind but year after year more seal go away from novastoshnah and lukannon and the other nursery to the quiet shelter beach where kotick sit all the summer through get big and fat and strong each year while the holluschickie play around him in that sea where no man come. 
lukannon. 
this be the great deep sea song that all the st. paul seal sing when they be head back to their beach in the summer. it be a sort of very sad seal national anthem. 
i meet my mate in the morning. and oh but i be old. where roar on the ledge the summer grind swell roll. i hear them lift the chorus that drown the breaker song the beach of lukannon two million voice strong. 
the song of pleasant station beside the salt lagoon the song of blow squadron that shuffle down the dune the song of midnight dance that churn the sea to flame the beach of lukannon before the sealer come. 
i meet my mate in the morning. i ll never meet them more. they come and go in legion that darken all the shore. and o er the foam fleck off a far a voice could reach we hail the land party and we sing them up the beach. 
the beach of lukannon the winter wheat so tall the drip crinkle lichen and the sea fog drench all. the platform of our playground all shin smooth and wear. the beach of lukannon the home where we be bear. 
i meet my mate in the morning a break scatter band. men shoot u in the water and club u on the land. men drive u to the salt house like silly sheep and tame and still we sing lukannon before the sealer come. 
wheel down wheel down to southward. oh gooverooska go. and tell the deep sea viceroy the story of our woe. ere empty a the shark s egg the tempest fling ashore the beach of lukannon shall know their son no more. 
rikki tikki tavi. 
at the hole where he go in red eye call to wrinkle skin. hear what little red eye saith. nag come up and dance with death. 
eye to eye and head to head. keep the measure nag. this shall end when one be dead. at thy pleasure nag. turn for turn and twist for twist. run and hide thee nag. hah. the hood death ha miss. woe betide thee nag. 
this be the story of the great war that rikki tikki tavi fight single hand through the bath room of the big bungalow in segowlee cantonment. darzee the tailorbird help him and chuchundra the musk rat who never come out into the middle of the floor but always creep round by the wall give him advice but rikki tikki do the real fight. 
he be a mongoose rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail but quite like a weasel in his head and his habit. his eye and the end of his restless nose be pink. he could scratch himself anywhere he please with any leg front or back that he choose to use. he could fluff up his tail till it look like a bottle brush and his war cry a he scuttle through the long grass be. rikk tikk tikki tikki tchk. 
one day a high summer flood wash him out of the burrow where he live with his father and mother and carry him kick and cluck down a roadside ditch. he find a little wisp of grass float there and cling to it till he lose his sens. when he revive he be lie in the hot sun on the middle of a garden path very draggle indeed and a small boy be say here s a dead mongoose. let s have a funeral. 
no say his mother let s take him in and dry him. perhaps he isn t really dead. 
they take him into the house and a big man pick him up between his finger and thumb and say he be not dead but half choke. so they wrap him in cotton wool and warm him over a little fire and he open his eye and sneeze. 
now say the big man. he be an englishman who have just move into the bungalow. don t frighten him and we ll see what he ll do. 
it be the hard thing in the world to frighten a mongoose because he be eat up from nose to tail with curiosity. the motto of all the mongoose family be run and find out and rikki tikki be a true mongoose. he look at the cotton wool decide that it be not good to eat run all round the table sit up and put his fur in order scratch himself and jump on the small boy s shoulder. 
don t be frighten teddy say his father. that s his way of make friend. 
ouch. he s tickle under my chin say teddy. 
rikki tikki look down between the boy s collar and neck snuff at his ear and climb down to the floor where he sit rub his nose. 
good gracious say teddy s mother and that s a wild creature. i suppose he s so tame because we ve be kind to him. 
all mongoose be like that say her husband. if teddy doesn t pick him up by the tail or try to put him in a cage he ll run in and out of the house all day long. let s give him something to eat. 
they give him a little piece of raw meat. rikki tikki like it immensely and when it be finish he go out into the veranda and sit in the sunshine and fluff up his fur to make it dry to the root. then he felt good. 
there be more thing to find out about in this house he say to himself than all my family could find out in all their life. i shall certainly stay and find out. 
he spend all that day roam over the house. he nearly drown himself in the bath tub put his nose into the ink on a write table and burn it on the end of the big man s cigar for he climb up in the big man s lap to see how write be do. at nightfall he run into teddy s nursery to watch how kerosene lamp be light and when teddy go to bed rikki tikki climb up too. but he be a restless companion because he have to get up and attend to every noise all through the night and find out what make it. teddy s mother and father come in the last thing to look at their boy and rikki tikki be awake on the pillow. i don t like that say teddy s mother. he may bite the child. he ll do no such thing say the father. teddy s safe with that little beast than if he have a bloodhound to watch him. if a snake come into the nursery now. 
but teddy s mother wouldn t think of anything so awful. 
early in the morning rikki tikki come to early breakfast in the veranda rid on teddy s shoulder and they give him banana and some boil egg. he sit on all their lap one after the other because every well bring up mongoose always hope to be a house mongoose some day and have room to run about in. and rikki tikki s mother. she use to live in the general s house at segowlee. have carefully tell rikki what to do if ever he come across white men. 
then rikki tikki go out into the garden to see what be to be see. it be a large garden only half cultivate with bush a big a summer house of marshal niel rose lime and orange tree clump of bamboo and thicket of high grass. rikki tikki lick his lip. this be a splendid hunt grind he say and his tail grow bottle brushy at the think of it and he scuttle up and down the garden snuff here and there till he hear very sorrowful voice in a thorn bush. 
it be darzee the tailorbird and his wife. they have make a beautiful nest by pull two big leaf together and stitch them up the edge with fiber and have fill the hollow with cotton and downy fluff. the nest sway to and fro a they sit on the rim and cry. 
what be the matter. ask rikki tikki. 
we be very miserable say darzee. one of our baby fell out of the nest yesterday and nag eat him. 
h m. say rikki tikki that be very sad but i be a strange here. who be nag. 
darzee and his wife only cower down in the nest without answer for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there come a low hiss a horrid cold sound that make rikki tikki jump back two clear foot. then inch by inch out of the grass rise up the head and spread hood of nag the big black cobra and he be five foot long from tongue to tail. when he have lift one third of himself clear of the grind he stay balance to and fro exactly a a dandelion tuft balance in the wind and he look at rikki tikki with the wicked snake s eye that never change their expression whatever the snake may be think of. 
who be nag. say he. i be nag. the great god brahm put his mark upon all our people when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off brahm a he sleep. look and be afraid. 
he spread out his hood more than ever and rikki tikki saw the spectacle mark on the back of it that look exactly like the eye part of a hook and eye fasten. he be afraid for the minute but it be impossible for a mongoose to stay frighten for any length of time and though rikki tikki have never meet a live cobra before his mother have feed him on dead one and he know that all a grow mongoose s business in life be to fight and eat snake. nag know that too and at the bottom of his cold heart he be afraid. 
well say rikki tikki and his tail begin to fluff up again mark or no mark do you think it be right for you to eat fledgling out of a nest. 
nag be think to himself and watch the least little movement in the grass behind rikki tikki. he know that mongoose in the garden mean death sooner or late for him and his family but he want to get rikki tikki off his guard. so he drop his head a little and put it on one side. 
let u talk he say. you eat egg. why should not i eat bird. 
behind you. look behind you. sing darzee. 
rikki tikki know good than to waste time in star. he jump up in the air a high a he could go and just under him whiz by the head of nagaina nag s wicked wife. she have creep up behind him a he be talk to make an end of him. he hear her savage hiss a the stroke miss. he come down almost across her back and if he have be an old mongoose he would have know that then be the time to break her back with one bite. but he be afraid of the terrible lash return stroke of the cobra. he bite indeed but do not bite long enough and he jump clear of the whisk tail leave nagaina tear and angry. 
wicked wicked darzee. say nag lash up a high a he could reach toward the nest in the thorn bush. but darzee have build it out of reach of snake and it only sway to and fro. 
rikki tikki felt his eye grow red and hot. when a mongoose s eye grow red he be angry. and he sit back on his tail and hind leg like a little kangaroo and look all round him and chatter with rage. but nag and nagaina have disappear into the grass. when a snake miss it stroke it never say anything or give any sign of what it mean to do next. rikki tikki do not care to follow them for he do not feel sure that he could manage two snake at once. so he trot off to the gravel path near the house and sit down to think. it be a serious matter for him. 
if you read the old book of natural history you will find they say that when the mongoose fight the snake and happen to get bite he run off and eat some herb that cure him. that be not true. the victory be only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot snake s blow against mongoose s jump and a no eye can follow the motion of a snake s head when it strike this make thing much more wonderful than any magic herb. rikki tikki know he be a young mongoose and it make him all the more please to think that he have manage to escape a blow from behind. it give him confidence in himself and when teddy come run down the path rikki tikki be ready to be pet. 
but just a teddy be stoop something wriggle a little in the dust and a tiny voice say. be careful. i be death. it be karait the dusty brown snakeling that lie for choice on the dusty earth. and his bite be a dangerous a the cobra s. but he be so small that nobody think of him and so he doe the more harm to people. 
rikki tikki s eye grow red again and he dance up to karait with the peculiar rock sway motion that he have inherit from his family. it look very funny but it be so perfectly balance a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please and in deal with snake this be an advantage. if rikki tikki have only know he be do a much more dangerous thing than fight nag for karait be so small and can turn so quickly that unless rikki bite him close to the back of the head he would get the return stroke in his eye or his lip. but rikki do not know. his eye be all red and he rock back and forth look for a good place to hold. karait strike out. rikki jump sideways and try to run in but the wicked little dusty gray head lash within a fraction of his shoulder and he have to jump over the body and the head follow his heel close. 
teddy shout to the house. oh look here. our mongoose be kill a snake. and rikki tikki hear a scream from teddy s mother. his father run out with a stick but by the time he come up karait have lunge out once too far and rikki tikki have spring jump on the snake s back drop his head far between his foreleg bite a high up the back a he could get hold and roll away. that bite paralyze karait and rikki tikki be just go to eat him up from the tail after the custom of his family at dinner when he remember that a full meal make a slow mongoose and if he want all his strength and quickness ready he must keep himself thin. 
he go away for a dust bath under the castor oil bush while teddy s father beat the dead karait. what be the use of that. think rikki tikki. i have settle it all. and then teddy s mother pick him up from the dust and hug him cry that he have save teddy from death and teddy s father say that he be a providence and teddy look on with big scar eye. rikki tikki be rather amuse at all the fuss which of course he do not understand. teddy s mother might just a well have pet teddy for play in the dust. rikki be thoroughly enjoy himself. 
that night at dinner walk to and fro among the wine glass on the table he might have stuff himself three time over with nice thing. but he remember nag and nagaina and though it be very pleasant to be pat and pet by teddy s mother and to sit on teddy s shoulder his eye would get red from time to time and he would go off into his long war cry of rikk tikk tikki tikki tchk. 
teddy carry him off to bed and insist on rikki tikki sleep under his chin. rikki tikki be too well breed to bite or scratch but a soon a teddy be asleep he go off for his nightly walk round the house and in the dark he run up against chuchundra the musk rat creep around by the wall. chuchundra be a break hearted little beast. he whimper and cheep all the night try to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room. but he never get there. 
don t kill me say chuchundra almost weep. rikki tikki don t kill me. 
do you think a snake killer kill muskrat. say rikki tikki scornfully. 
those who kill snake get kill by snake say chuchundra more sorrowfully than ever. and how be i to be sure that nag win t mistake me for you some dark night. 
there s not the least danger say rikki tikki. but nag be in the garden and i know you don t go there. 
my cousin chua the rat tell me say chuchundra and then he stop. 
tell you what. 
h sh. nag be everywhere rikki tikki. you should have talk to chua in the garden. 
i didn t so you must tell me. quick chuchundra or i ll bite you. 
chuchundra sit down and cry till the tear roll off his whisker. i be a very poor man he sob. i never have spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room. h sh. i mustn t tell you anything. can t you hear rikki tikki. 
rikki tikki listen. the house be a still a still but he think he could just catch the faint scratch scratch in the world a noise a faint a that of a wasp walk on a window pane the dry scratch of a snake s scale on brick work. 
that s nag or nagaina he say to himself and he be crawl into the bath room sluice. you re right chuchundra. i should have talk to chua. 
he steal off to teddy s bath room but there be nothing there and then to teddy s mother s bathroom. at the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there be a brick pull out to make a sluice for the bath water and a rikki tikki steal in by the masonry curb where the bath be put he hear nag and nagaina whisper together outside in the moonlight. 
when the house be empty of people say nagaina to her husband he will have to go away and then the garden will be our own again. go in quietly and remember that the big man who kill karait be the first one to bite. then come out and tell me and we will hunt for rikki tikki together. 
but be you sure that there be anything to be gain by kill the people. say nag. 
everything. when there be no people in the bungalow do we have any mongoose in the garden. so long a the bungalow be empty we be king and queen of the garden. and remember that a soon a our egg in the melon bed hatch. a they may tomorrow. our child will need room and quiet. 
i have not think of that say nag. i will go but there be no need that we should hunt for rikki tikki afterward. i will kill the big man and his wife and the child if i can and come away quietly. then the bungalow will be empty and rikki tikki will go. 
rikki tikki tingle all over with rage and hatred at this and then nag s head come through the sluice and his five foot of cold body follow it. angry a he be rikki tikki be very frighten a he saw the size of the big cobra. nag coil himself up raise his head and look into the bathroom in the dark and rikki could see his eye glitter. 
now if i kill him here nagaina will know. and if i fight him on the open floor the odds be in his favor. what be i to do. say rikki tikki tavi. 
nag wave to and fro and then rikki tikki hear him drink from the big water jar that be use to fill the bath. that be good say the snake. now when karait be kill the big man have a stick. he may have that stick still but when he come in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick. i shall wait here till he come. nagaina do you hear me. i shall wait here in the cool till daytime. 
there be no answer from outside so rikki tikki know nagaina have go away. nag coil himself down coil by coil round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar and rikki tikki stay still a death. after an hour he begin to move muscle by muscle toward the jar. nag be asleep and rikki tikki look at his big back wonder which would be the best place for a good hold. if i don t break his back at the first jump say rikki he can still fight. and if he fight o rikki. he look at the thickness of the neck below the hood but that be too much for him. and a bite near the tail would only make nag savage. 
it must be the head he say at last. the head above the hood. and when i be once there i must not let go. 
then he jump. the head be lie a little clear of the water jar under the curve of it. and a his teeth meet rikki brace his back against the bulge of the red earthenware to hold down the head. this give him just one second s purchase and he make the most of it. then he be batter to and fro a a rat be shake by a dog to and fro on the floor up and down and around in great circle but his eye be red and he hold on a the body cart whip over the floor upset the tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush and bang against the tin side of the bath. a he hold he close his jaw tight and tight for he make sure he would be bang to death and for the honor of his family he prefer to be find with his teeth lock. he be dizzy ache and felt shake to piece when something go off like a thunderclap just behind him. a hot wind knock him senseless and red fire sing his fur. the big man have be waken by the noise and have fire both barrel of a shotgun into nag just behind the hood. 
rikki tikki hold on with his eye shut for now he be quite sure he be dead. but the head do not move and the big man pick him up and say it s the mongoose again alice. the little chap ha save our life now. 
then teddy s mother come in with a very white face and saw what be leave of nag and rikki tikki drag himself to teddy s bedroom and spend half the rest of the night shake himself tenderly to find out whether he really be break into forty piece a he fancy. 
when morning come he be very stiff but well please with his do. now i have nagaina to settle with and she will be bad than five nag and there s no know when the egg she speak of will hatch. goodness. i must go and see darzee he say. 
without wait for breakfast rikki tikki run to the thornbush where darzee be sing a song of triumph at the top of his voice. the news of nag s death be all over the garden for the sweeper have throw the body on the rubbish heap. 
oh you stupid tuft of feather. say rikki tikki angrily. be this the time to sing. 
nag be dead be dead be dead. sing darzee. the valiant rikki tikki catch him by the head and hold fast. the big man bring the bang stick and nag fell in two piece. he will never eat my baby again. 
all that s true enough. but where s nagaina. say rikki tikki look carefully round him. 
nagaina come to the bathroom sluice and call for nag darzee go on and nag come out on the end of a stick the sweeper pick him up on the end of a stick and throw him upon the rubbish heap. let u sing about the great the red eye rikki tikki. and darzee fill his throat and sing. 
if i could get up to your nest i d roll your baby out. say rikki tikki. you don t know when to do the right thing at the right time. you re safe enough in your nest there but it s war for me down here. stop sing a minute darzee. 
for the great the beautiful rikki tikki s sake i will stop say darzee. what be it o killer of the terrible nag. 
where be nagaina for the third time. 
on the rubbish heap by the stable mourn for nag. great be rikki tikki with the white teeth. 
bother my white teeth. have you ever hear where she keep her egg. 
in the melon bed on the end near the wall where the sun strike nearly all day. she hide them there week ago. 
and you never think it worth while to tell me. the end near the wall you say. 
rikki tikki you be not go to eat her egg. 
not eat exactly. no. darzee if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stable and pretend that your wing be break and let nagaina chase you away to this bush. i must get to the melon bed and if i go there now she d see me. 
darzee be a feather brain little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head. and just because he know that nagaina s child be bear in egg like his own he didn t think at first that it be fair to kill them. but his wife be a sensible bird and she know that cobra s egg mean young cobra late on. so she fly off from the nest and leave darzee to keep the baby warm and continue his song about the death of nag. darzee be very like a man in some way. 
she flutter in front of nagaina by the rubbish heap and cry out oh my wing be break. the boy in the house throw a stone at me and break it. then she flutter more desperately than ever. 
nagaina lift up her head and hiss you warn rikki tikki when i would have kill him. indeed and truly you ve choose a bad place to be lame in. and she move toward darzee s wife slip along over the dust. 
the boy break it with a stone. shriek darzee s wife. 
well. it may be some consolation to you when you re dead to know that i shall settle account with the boy. my husband lie on the rubbish heap this morning but before night the boy in the house will lie very still. what be the use of run away. i be sure to catch you. little fool look at me. 
darzee s wife know good than to do that for a bird who look at a snake s eye get so frighten that she cannot move. darzee s wife flutter on pip sorrowfully and never leave the grind and nagaina quicken her pace. 
rikki tikki hear them go up the path from the stable and he race for the end of the melon patch near the wall. there in the warm litter above the melon very cunningly hide he find twenty five egg about the size of a bantam s egg but with whitish skin instead of shell. 
i be not a day too soon he say for he could see the baby cobra curl up inside the skin and he know that the minute they be hatch they could each kill a man or a mongoose. he bite off the top of the egg a fast a he could take care to crush the young cobra and turn over the litter from time to time to see whether he have miss any. at last there be only three egg leave and rikki tikki begin to chuckle to himself when he hear darzee s wife scream. 
rikki tikki i lead nagaina toward the house and she ha go into the veranda and oh come quickly she mean kill. 
rikki tikki smash two egg and tumble backward down the melon bed with the third egg in his mouth and scuttle to the veranda a hard a he could put foot to the grind. teddy and his mother and father be there at early breakfast but rikki tikki saw that they be not eat anything. they sit stone still and their face be white. nagaina be coil up on the mat by teddy s chair within easy strike distance of teddy s bare leg and she be sway to and fro sing a song of triumph. 
son of the big man that kill nag she hiss stay still. i be not ready yet. wait a little. keep very still all you three. if you move i strike and if you do not move i strike. oh foolish people who kill my nag. 
teddy s eye be fix on his father and all his father could do be to whisper sit still teddy. you mustn t move. teddy keep still. 
then rikki tikki come up and cry turn round nagaina. turn and fight. 
all in good time say she without move her eye. i will settle my account with you presently. look at your friend rikki tikki. they be still and white. they be afraid. they dare not move and if you come a step near i strike. 
look at your egg say rikki tikki in the melon bed near the wall. go and look nagaina. 
the big snake turn half around and saw the egg on the veranda. ah h. give it to me she say. 
rikki tikki put his paw one on each side of the egg and his eye be blood red. what price for a snake s egg. for a young cobra. for a young king cobra. for the last the very last of the brood. the ant be eat all the others down by the melon bed. 
nagaina spin clear round forget everything for the sake of the one egg. rikki tikki saw teddy s father shoot out a big hand catch teddy by the shoulder and drag him across the little table with the tea cup safe and out of reach of nagaina. 
trick. trick. trick. rikk tck tck. chuckle rikki tikki. the boy be safe and it be i i i that catch nag by the hood last night in the bathroom. then he begin to jump up and down all four foot together his head close to the floor. he throw me to and fro but he could not shake me off. he be dead before the big man blow him in two. i do it. rikki tikki tck tck. come then nagaina. come and fight with me. you shall not be a widow long. 
nagaina saw that she have lose her chance of kill teddy and the egg lay between rikki tikki s paw. give me the egg rikki tikki. give me the last of my egg and i will go away and never come back she say lower her hood. 
yes you will go away and you will never come back. for you will go to the rubbish heap with nag. fight widow. the big man ha go for his gun. fight. 
rikki tikki be bound all round nagaina keep just out of reach of her stroke his little eye like hot coal. nagaina gather herself together and fling out at him. rikki tikki jump up and backward. again and again and again she strike and each time her head come with a whack on the mat of the veranda and she gather herself together like a watch spring. then rikki tikki dance in a circle to get behind her and nagaina spin round to keep her head to his head so that the rustle of her tail on the mat sound like dry leaf blow along by the wind. 
he have forget the egg. it still lay on the veranda and nagaina come near and near to it till at last while rikki tikki be draw breath she catch it in her mouth turn to the veranda step and fly like an arrow down the path with rikki tikki behind her. when the cobra run for her life she go like a whip lash flick across a horse s neck. 
rikki tikki know that he must catch her or all the trouble would begin again. she head straight for the long grass by the thorn bush and a he be run rikki tikki hear darzee still sing his foolish little song of triumph. but darzee s wife be wise. she fly off her nest a nagaina come along and flap her wing about nagaina s head. if darzee have help they might have turn her but nagaina only lower her hood and go on. still the instant s delay bring rikki tikki up to her and a she plunge into the rat hole where she and nag use to live his little white teeth be clench on her tail and he go down with her and very few mongoose however wise and old they may be care to follow a cobra into it hole. it be dark in the hole. and rikki tikki never know when it might open out and give nagaina room to turn and strike at him. he hold on savagely and stick out his foot to act a brake on the dark slope of the hot moist earth. 
then the grass by the mouth of the hole stop wave and darzee say it be all over with rikki tikki. we must sing his death song. valiant rikki tikki be dead. for nagaina will surely kill him underground. 
so he sing a very mournful song that he make up on the spur of the minute and just a he get to the most touch part the grass quiver again and rikki tikki cover with dirt drag himself out of the hole leg by leg lick his whisker. darzee stop with a little shout. rikki tikki shake some of the dust out of his fur and sneeze. it be all over he say. the widow will never come out again. and the red ant that live between the grass stem hear him and begin to troop down one after another to see if he have speak the truth. 
rikki tikki curl himself up in the grass and sleep where he be sleep and sleep till it be late in the afternoon for he have do a hard day s work. 
now he say when he awake i will go back to the house. tell the coppersmith darzee and he will tell the garden that nagaina be dead. 
the coppersmith be a bird who make a noise exactly like the beat of a little hammer on a copper pot. and the reason he be always make it be because he be the town crier to every indian garden and tell all the news to everybody who care to listen. a rikki tikki go up the path he hear his attention note like a tiny dinner gong and then the steady ding dong tock. nag be dead dong. nagaina be dead. ding dong tock. that set all the bird in the garden sing and the frog croak for nag and nagaina use to eat frog a well a little bird. 
when rikki get to the house teddy and teddy s mother. she look very white still for she have be faint. and teddy s father come out and almost cry over him. and that night he eat all that be give him till he could eat no more and go to bed on teddy s shoulder where teddy s mother saw him when she come to look late at night. 
he save our life and teddy s life she say to her husband. just think he save all our life. 
rikki tikki wake up with a jump for the mongoose be light sleeper. 
oh it s you say he. what be you bother for. all the cobra be dead. and if they weren t i m here. 
rikki tikki have a right to be proud of himself. but he do not grow too proud and he keep that garden a a mongoose should keep it with tooth and jump and spring and bite till never a cobra dare show it head inside the wall. 
darzee s chant. 
sing in honor of rikki tikki tavi. 
singer and tailor be i double the joy that i know proud of my lilt to the sky proud of the house that i sew over and under so weave i my music so weave i the house that i sew. 
sing to your fledgling again mother oh lift up your head. evil that plague u be slay death in the garden lie dead. terror that hide in the rose be impotent fling on the dung hill and dead. 
who ha deliver u who. tell me his nest and his name. rikki the valiant the true tikki with eyeball of flame rikk tikki tikki the ivory fanged the hunter with eyeball of flame. 
give him the thank of the bird bow with tail feather spread. praise him with nightingale word nay i will praise him instead. hear. i will sing you the praise of the bottle tail rikki with eyeball of red. 
here rikki tikki interrupt and the rest of the song be lose. 
toomai of the elephant. 
i will remember what i be i be sick of rope and chain i will remember my old strength and all my forest affair. i will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar cane. i will go out to my own kind and the wood folk in their lair. 
i will go out until the day until the morning break out to the wind s untainted kiss the water s clean caress. i will forget my ankle ring and snap my picket stake. i will revisit my lose love and playmate masterless. 
kala nag which mean black snake have serve the indian government in every way that an elephant could serve it for forty seven year and a he be fully twenty year old when he be catch that make him nearly seventy a ripe age for an elephant. he remember push with a big leather pad on his forehead at a gun stick in deep mud and that be before the afghan war of and he have not then come to his full strength. 
his mother radha pyari radha the darling who have be catch in the same drive with kala nag tell him before his little milk tusk have drop out that elephant who be afraid always get hurt. kala nag know that that advice be good for the first time that he saw a shell burst he back scream into a stand of pile rifle and the bayonet prick him in all his soft place. so before he be twenty five he give up be afraid and so he be the best love and the best look after elephant in the service of the government of india. he have carry tent twelve hundred pound weight of tent on the march in upper india. he have be hoist into a ship at the end of a steam crane and take for day across the water and make to carry a mortar on his back in a strange and rocky country very far from india and have see the emperor theodore lie dead in magdala and have come back again in the steamer entitle so the soldier say to the abyssinian war medal. he have see his fellow elephant die of cold and epilepsy and starvation and sunstroke up at a place call ali musjid ten year late. and afterward he have be send down thousand of mile south to haul and pile big balk of teak in the timberyards at moulmein. there he have half kill an insubordinate young elephant who be shirk his fair share of work. 
after that he be take off timber haul and employ with a few score other elephant who be train to the business in help to catch wild elephant among the garo hill. elephant be very strictly preserve by the indian government. there be one whole department which doe nothing else but hunt them and catch them and break them in and send them up and down the country a they be need for work. 
kala nag stand ten fair foot at the shoulder and his tusk have be cut off short at five foot and bind round the end to prevent them split with band of copper. but he could do more with those stump than any untrained elephant could do with the real sharpen one. when after week and week of cautious drive of scatter elephant across the hill the forty or fifty wild monster be drive into the last stockade and the big drop gate make of tree trunk lash together jar down behind them kala nag at the word of command would go into that flare trumpet pandemonium. generally at night when the flicker of the torch make it difficult to judge distance. and pick out the big and wild tusker of the mob would hammer him and hustle him into quiet while the men on the back of the other elephant rope and tie the small one. 
there be nothing in the way of fight that kala nag the old wise black snake do not know for he have stand up more than once in his time to the charge of the wound tiger and curl up his soft trunk to be out of harm s way have knock the spring brute sideways in mid air with a quick sickle cut of his head that he have invent all by himself. have knock him over and kneel upon him with his huge knee till the life go out with a gasp and a howl and there be only a fluffy strip thing on the grind for kala nag to pull by the tail. 
yes say big toomai his driver the son of black toomai who have take him to abyssinia and grandson of toomai of the elephant who have see him catch there be nothing that the black snake fear except me. he ha see three generation of u fee him and groom him and he will live to see four. 
he be afraid of me also say little toomai stand up to his full height of four foot with only one rag upon him. he be ten year old the eldest son of big toomai and accord to custom he would take his father s place on kala nag s neck when he grow up and would handle the heavy iron ankus the elephant goad that have be wear smooth by his father and his grandfather and his great grandfather. 
he know what he be talk of. for he have be bear under kala nag s shadow have play with the end of his trunk before he could walk have take him down to water a soon a he could walk and kala nag would no more have dream of disobey his shrill little order than he would have dream of kill him on that day when big toomai carry the little brown baby under kala nag s tusk and tell him to salute his master that be to be. 
yes say little toomai he be afraid of me and he take long stride up to kala nag call him a fat old pig and make him lift up his foot one after the other. 
wah. say little toomai thou art a big elephant and he wag his fluffy head quote his father. the government may pay for elephant but they belong to u mahout. when thou art old kala nag there will come some rich rajah and he will buy thee from the government on account of thy size and thy manner and then thou wilt have nothing to do but to carry gold earring in thy ear and a gold howdah on thy back and a red cloth cover with gold on thy side and walk at the head of the procession of the king. then i shall sit on thy neck o kala nag with a silver ankus and men will run before u with golden stick cry `room for the king s elephant. that will be good kala nag but not so good a this hunt in the jungle. 
umph. say big toomai. thou art a boy and a wild a a buffalo calf. this run up and down among the hill be not the best government service. i be get old and i do not love wild elephant. give me brick elephant line one stall to each elephant and big stump to tie them to safely and flat broad road to exercise upon instead of this come and go camp. aha the cawnpore barrack be good. there be a bazaar close by and only three hour work a day. 
little toomai remember the cawnpore elephant line and say nothing. he very much prefer the camp life and hat those broad flat road with the daily grub for grass in the forage reserve and the long hour when there be nothing to do except to watch kala nag fidget in his picket. 
what little toomai like be to scramble up bridle path that only an elephant could take. the dip into the valley below. the glimpse of the wild elephant browse mile away. the rush of the frighten pig and peacock under kala nag s foot. the blind warm rain when all the hill and valley smoke. the beautiful misty morning when nobody know where they would camp that night. the steady cautious drive of the wild elephant and the mad rush and blaze and hullabaloo of the last night s drive when the elephant pour into the stockade like boulder in a landslide find that they could not get out and fling themselves at the heavy post only to be drive back by yell and flare torch and volley of blank cartridge. 
even a little boy could be of use there and toomai be a useful a three boy. he would get his torch and wave it and yell with the best. but the really good time come when the drive out begin and the keddah that be the stockade look like a picture of the end of the world and men have to make sign to one another because they could not hear themselves speak. then little toomai would climb up to the top of one of the quiver stockade post his sun bleach brown hair fly loose all over his shoulder and he look like a goblin in the torch light. and a soon a there be a lull you could hear his high pitch yell of encouragement to kala nag above the trumpet and crash and snap of rope and groan of the tether elephant. mael mael kala nag. go on go on black snake. dant do. give him the tusk. somalo. somalo. careful careful. maro. mar. hit him hit him. mind the post. arre. arre. hai. yai. kya a ah. he would shout and the big fight between kala nag and the wild elephant would sway to and fro across the keddah and the old elephant catcher would wipe the sweat out of their eye and find time to nod to little toomai wriggle with joy on the top of the post. 
he do more than wriggle. one night he slide down from the post and slip in between the elephant and throw up the loose end of a rope which have drop to a driver who be try to get a purchase on the leg of a kick young calf. calf always give more trouble than full grow animal. kala nag saw him catch him in his trunk and hand him up to big toomai who slap him then and there and put him back on the post. 
next morning he give him a scold and say be not good brick elephant line and a little tent carry enough that thou must need go elephant catch on thy own account little worthless. now those foolish hunter whose pay be le than my pay have speak to petersen sahib of the matter. little toomai be frighten. he do not know much of white men but petersen sahib be the great white man in the world to him. he be the head of all the keddah operation the man who catch all the elephant for the government of india and who know more about the way of elephant than any live man. 
what what will happen. say little toomai. 
happen. the bad that can happen. petersen sahib be a madman. else why should he go hunt these wild devil. he may even require thee to be an elephant catcher to sleep anywhere in these fever fill jungle and at last to be trample to death in the keddah. it be well that this nonsense end safely. next week the catch be over and we of the plain be send back to our station. then we will march on smooth road and forget all this hunt. but son i be angry that thou shouldst meddle in the business that belong to these dirty assamese jungle folk. kala nag will obey none but me so i must go with him into the keddah but he be only a fight elephant and he doe not help to rope them. so i sit at my ease a befit a mahout not a mere hunter a mahout i say and a man who get a pension at the end of his service. be the family of toomai of the elephant to be tread underfoot in the dirt of a keddah. bad one. wicked one. worthless son. go and wash kala nag and attend to his ear and see that there be no thorn in his foot. or else petersen sahib will surely catch thee and make thee a wild hunter a follower of elephant s foot track a jungle bear. bah. shame. go. 
little toomai go off without say a word but he tell kala nag all his grievance while he be examine his foot. no matter say little toomai turn up the fringe of kala nag s huge right ear. they have say my name to petersen sahib and perhaps and perhaps and perhaps who know. hai. that be a big thorn that i have pull out. 
the next few day be spend in get the elephant together in walk the newly catch wild elephant up and down between a couple of tame one to prevent them give too much trouble on the downward march to the plain and in take stock of the blanket and rope and thing that have be wear out or lose in the forest. 
petersen sahib come in on his clever she elephant pudmini. he have be pay off other camp among the hill for the season be come to an end and there be a native clerk sit at a table under a tree to pay the driver their wage. a each man be pay he go back to his elephant and join the line that stand ready to start. the catcher and hunter and beater the men of the regular keddah who stay in the jungle year in and year out sit on the back of the elephant that belong to petersen sahib s permanent force or lean against the tree with their gun across their arm and make fun of the driver who be go away and laugh when the newly catch elephant break the line and run about. 
big toomai go up to the clerk with little toomai behind him and machua appa the head tracker say in an undertone to a friend of his there go one piece of good elephant stuff at least. ti a pity to send that young jungle cock to molt in the plain. 
now petersen sahib have ear all over him a a man must have who listen to the most silent of all live thing the wild elephant. he turn where he be lie all along on pudmini s back and say what be that. i do not know of a man among the plain driver who have wit enough to rope even a dead elephant. 
this be not a man but a boy. he go into the keddah at the last drive and throw barmao there the rope when we be try to get that young calf with the blotch on his shoulder away from his mother. 
machua appa point at little toomai and petersen sahib look and little toomai bow to the earth. 
he throw a rope. he be small than a picket pin. little one what be thy name. say petersen sahib. 
little toomai be too frighten to speak but kala nag be behind him and toomai make a sign with his hand and the elephant catch him up in his trunk and hold him level with pudmini s forehead in front of the great petersen sahib. then little toomai cover his face with his hand for he be only a child and except where elephant be concern he be just a bashful a a child could be. 
oho. say petersen sahib smile underneath his mustache and why didst thou teach thy elephant that trick. be it to help thee steal green corn from the roof of the house when the ear be put out to dry. 
not green corn protector of the poor melon say little toomai and all the men sit about break into a roar of laughter. most of them have teach their elephant that trick when they be boy. little toomai be hang eight foot up in the air and he wish very much that he be eight foot underground. 
he be toomai my son sahib say big toomai scowl. he be a very bad boy and he will end in a jail sahib. 
of that i have my doubt say petersen sahib. a boy who can face a full keddah at his age doe not end in jail. see little one here be four anna to spend in sweetmeat because thou hast a little head under that great thatch of hair. in time thou mayest become a hunter too. big toomai scowl more than ever. remember though that keddahs be not good for child to play in petersen sahib go on. 
must i never go there sahib. ask little toomai with a big gasp. 
yes. petersen sahib smile again. when thou hast see the elephant dance. that be the proper time. come to me when thou hast see the elephant dance and then i will let thee go into all the keddahs. 
there be another roar of laughter for that be an old joke among elephant catcher and it mean just never. there be great clear flat place hide away in the forest that be call elephant ball room but even these be only find by accident and no man ha ever see the elephant dance. when a driver boast of his skill and bravery the other driver say and when didst thou see the elephant dance. 
kala nag put little toomai down and he bow to the earth again and go away with his father and give the silver four anna piece to his mother who be nurse his baby brother and they all be put up on kala nag s back and the line of grunt squeal elephant roll down the hill path to the plain. it be a very lively march on account of the new elephant who give trouble at every ford and need coax or beat every other minute. 
big toomai prod kala nag spitefully for he be very angry but little toomai be too happy to speak. petersen sahib have notice him and give him money so he felt a a private soldier would feel if he have be call out of the rank and praise by his commander in chief. 
what do petersen sahib mean by the elephant dance. he say at last softly to his mother. 
big toomai hear him and grunt. that thou shouldst never be one of these hill buffalo of tracker. that be what he mean. oh you in front what be block the way. 
an assamese driver two or three elephant ahead turn round angrily cry. bring up kala nag and knock this youngster of mine into good behavior. why should petersen sahib have choose me to go down with you donkey of the rice field. lay your beast alongside toomai and let him prod with his tusk. by all the god of the hill these new elephant be possess or else they can smell their companion in the jungle. kala nag hit the new elephant in the rib and knock the wind out of him a big toomai say we have sweep the hill of wild elephant at the last catch. it be only your carelessness in drive. must i keep order along the whole line. 
hear him. say the other driver. we have sweep the hill. ho. ho. you be very wise you plain people. anyone but a mud head who never saw the jungle would know that they know that the drive be end for the season. therefore all the wild elephant to night will but why should i waste wisdom on a river turtle. 
what will they do. little toomai call out. 
ohe little one. art thou there. well i will tell thee for thou hast a cool head. they will dance and it behoove thy father who ha sweep all the hill of all the elephant to double chain his picket to night. 
what talk be this. say big toomai. for forty year father and son we have tend elephant and we have never hear such moonshine about dance. 
yes. but a plainsman who life in a hut know only the four wall of his hut. well leave thy elephant unshackled tonight and see what come. a for their dance i have see the place where bapree bap. how many winding ha the dihang river. here be another ford and we must swim the calf. stop still you behind there. 
and in this way talk and wrangle and splash through the river they make their first march to a sort of receive camp for the new elephant. but they lose their temper long before they get there. 
then the elephant be chain by their hind leg to their big stump of picket and extra rope be fit to the new elephant and the fodder be pile before them and the hill driver go back to petersen sahib through the afternoon light tell the plain driver to be extra careful that night and laugh when the plain driver ask the reason. 
little toomai attend to kala nag s supper and a even fell wander through the camp unspeakably happy in search of a tom tom. when an indian child s heart be full he doe not run about and make a noise in an irregular fashion. he sit down to a sort of revel all by himself. and little toomai have be speak to by petersen sahib. if he have not find what he want i believe he would have be ill. but the sweetmeat seller in the camp lend him a little tom tom a drum beat with the flat of the hand and he sit down cross legged before kala nag a the star begin to come out the tom tom in his lap and he thump and he thump and he thump and the more he think of the great honor that have be do to him the more he thump all alone among the elephant fodder. there be no tune and no word but the thump make him happy. 
the new elephant strain at their rope and squeal and trumpet from time to time and he could hear his mother in the camp hut put his small brother to sleep with an old old song about the great god shiv who once tell all the animal what they should eat. it be a very soothe lullaby and the first verse say. 
shiv who pour the harvest and make the wind to blow sit at the doorway of a day of long ago give to each his portion food and toil and fate from the king upon the guddee to the beggar at the gate. all thing make he shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. he make all thorn for the camel fodder for the kine and mother s heart for sleepy head o little son of mine. 
little toomai come in with a joyous tunk a tunk at the end of each verse till he felt sleepy and stretch himself on the fodder at kala nag s side. at last the elephant begin to lie down one after another a be their custom till only kala nag at the right of the line be leave stand up. and he rock slowly from side to side his ear put forward to listen to the night wind a it blow very slowly across the hill. the air be full of all the night noise that take together make one big silence the click of one bamboo stem against the other the rustle of something alive in the undergrowth the scratch and squawk of a half wake bird. bird be awake in the night much more often than we imagine. and the fall of water ever so far away. little toomai sleep for some time and when he wake it be brilliant moonlight and kala nag be still stand up with his ear cock. little toomai turn rustle in the fodder and watch the curve of his big back against half the star in heaven and while he watch he hear so far away that it sound no more than a pinhole of noise prick through the stillness the hoot toot of a wild elephant. 
all the elephant in the line jump up a if they have be shoot and their grunt at last wake the sleep mahout and they come out and drive in the picket peg with big mallet and tighten this rope and knot that till all be quiet. one new elephant have nearly grub up his picket and big toomai take off kala nag s leg chain and shackle that elephant fore foot to hind foot but slip a loop of grass string round kala nag s leg and tell him to remember that he be tie fast. he know that he and his father and his grandfather have do the very same thing hundred of time before. kala nag do not answer to the order by gurgle a he usually do. he stand still look out across the moonlight his head a little raise and his ear spread like fan up to the great fold of the garo hill. 
tend to him if he grow restless in the night say big toomai to little toomai and he go into the hut and sleep. little toomai be just go to sleep too when he hear the coir string snap with a little tang and kala nag roll out of his picket a slowly and a silently a a cloud roll out of the mouth of a valley. little toomai patter after him barefooted down the road in the moonlight call under his breath kala nag. kala nag. take me with you o kala nag. the elephant turn without a sound take three stride back to the boy in the moonlight put down his trunk swing him up to his neck and almost before little toomai have settle his knee slip into the forest. 
there be one blast of furious trumpet from the line and then the silence shut down on everything and kala nag begin to move. sometimes a tuft of high grass wash along his side a a wave wash along the side of a ship and sometimes a cluster of wild pepper vine would scrape along his back or a bamboo would creak where his shoulder touch it. but between those time he move absolutely without any sound drift through the thick garo forest a though it have be smoke. he be go uphill but though little toomai watch the star in the rift of the tree he could not tell in what direction. 
then kala nag reach the crest of the ascent and stop for a minute and little toomai could see the top of the tree lie all speckle and furry under the moonlight for mile and mile and the blue white mist over the river in the hollow. toomai lean forward and look and he felt that the forest be awake below him awake and alive and crowd. a big brown fruit eat bat brush past his ear. a porcupine s quill rattle in the thicket. and in the darkness between the tree stem he hear a hog bear dig hard in the moist warm earth and snuff a it digged. 
then the branch close over his head again and kala nag begin to go down into the valley not quietly this time but a a runaway gun go down a steep bank in one rush. the huge limb move a steadily a piston eight foot to each stride and the wrinkle skin of the elbow point rustle. the undergrowth on either side of him rip with a noise like tear canvas and the sapling that he heave away right and leave with his shoulder spring back again and bang him on the flank and great trail of creeper all mat together hang from his tusk a he throw his head from side to side and plow out his pathway. then little toomai lay himself down close to the great neck l a swing bough should sweep him to the grind and he wish that he be back in the line again. 
the grass begin to get squashy and kala nag s foot suck and squelch a he put them down and the night mist at the bottom of the valley chill little toomai. there be a splash and a trample and the rush of run water and kala nag stride through the bed of a river feel his way at each step. above the noise of the water a it swirl round the elephant s leg little toomai could hear more splash and some trumpet both upstream and down great grunt and angry snorting and all the mist about him seem to be full of roll wavy shadow. 
ai. he say half aloud his teeth chatter. the elephant folk be out tonight. it be the dance then. 
kala nag swash out of the water blow his trunk clear and begin another climb. but this time he be not alone and he have not to make his path. that be make already six foot wide in front of him where the bend jungle grass be try to recover itself and stand up. many elephant must have go that way only a few minute before. little toomai look back and behind him a great wild tusker with his little pig s eye glow like hot coal be just lift himself out of the misty river. then the tree close up again and they go on and up with trumpet and crash and the sound of break branch on every side of them. 
at last kala nag stand still between two tree trunk at the very top of the hill. they be part of a circle of tree that grow round an irregular space of some three or four acre and in all that space a little toomai could see the grind have be trample down a hard a a brick floor. some tree grow in the center of the clear but their bark be rub away and the white wood beneath show all shiny and polish in the patch of moonlight. there be creeper hang from the upper branch and the bell of the flower of the creeper great waxy white thing like convolvulus hang down fast asleep. but within the limit of the clear there be not a single blade of green nothing but the trample earth. 
the moonlight show it all iron gray except where some elephant stand upon it and their shadow be inky black. little toomai look hold his breath with his eye start out of his head and a he look more and more and more elephant swing out into the open from between the tree trunk. little toomai could only count up to ten and he count again and again on his finger till he lose count of the ten and his head begin to swim. outside the clear he could hear them crash in the undergrowth a they work their way up the hillside but a soon a they be within the circle of the tree trunk they move like ghost. 
there be white tusk wild male with fall leaf and nut and twig lie in the wrinkle of their neck and the fold of their ear. fat slow foot she elephant with restless little pinky black calf only three or four foot high run under their stomach. young elephant with their tusk just begin to show and very proud of them. lanky scraggy old maid elephant with their hollow anxious face and trunk like rough bark. savage old bull elephant scar from shoulder to flank with great weal and cut of bygone fight and the cake dirt of their solitary mud bath drop from their shoulder. and there be one with a break tusk and the mark of the full stroke the terrible draw scrape of a tiger s claw on his side. 
they be stand head to head or walk to and fro across the grind in couple or rock and sway all by themselves score and score of elephant. 
toomai know that so long a he lay still on kala nag s neck nothing would happen to him for even in the rush and scramble of a keddah drive a wild elephant doe not reach up with his trunk and drag a man off the neck of a tame elephant. and these elephant be not think of men that night. once they start and put their ear forward when they hear the chink of a leg iron in the forest but it be pudmini petersen sahib s pet elephant her chain snap short off grunt snuffle up the hillside. she must have break her picket and come straight from petersen sahib s camp. and little toomai saw another elephant one that he do not know with deep rope gall on his back and breast. he too must have run away from some camp in the hill about. 
at last there be no sound of any more elephant move in the forest and kala nag roll out from his station between the tree and go into the middle of the crowd cluck and gurgle and all the elephant begin to talk in their own tongue and to move about. 
still lie down little toomai look down upon score and score of broad back and wag ear and toss trunk and little roll eye. he hear the click of tusk a they cross other tusk by accident and the dry rustle of trunk twin together and the chafe of enormous side and shoulder in the crowd and the incessant flick and hissh of the great tail. then a cloud come over the moon and he sit in black darkness. but the quiet steady hustle and push and gurgle go on just the same. he know that there be elephant all round kala nag and that there be no chance of back him out of the assembly. so he set his teeth and shiver. in a keddah at least there be torchlight and shout but here he be all alone in the dark and once a trunk come up and touch him on the knee. 
then an elephant trumpet and they all take it up for five or ten terrible second. the dew from the tree above spatter down like rain on the unseen back and a dull boom noise begin not very loud at first and little toomai could not tell what it be. but it grow and grow and kala nag lift up one forefoot and then the other and bring them down on the grind one two one two a steadily a trip hammer. the elephant be stamp all together now and it sound like a war drum beat at the mouth of a cave. the dew fell from the tree till there be no more leave to fall and the boom go on and the grind rock and shiver and little toomai put his hand up to his ear to shut out the sound. but it be all one gigantic jar that run through him this stamp of hundred of heavy foot on the raw earth. once or twice he could feel kala nag and all the others surge forward a few stride and the thump would change to the crush sound of juicy green thing be bruise but in a minute or two the boom of foot on hard earth begin again. a tree be creak and groan somewhere near him. he put out his arm and felt the bark but kala nag move forward still tramp and he could not tell where he be in the clear. there be no sound from the elephant except once when two or three little calf squeak together. then he hear a thump and a shuffle and the boom go on. it must have last fully two hour and little toomai ache in every nerve but he know by the smell of the night air that the dawn be come. 
the morning break in one sheet of pale yellow behind the green hill and the boom stop with the first ray a though the light have be an order. before little toomai have get the ring out of his head before even he have shift his position there be not an elephant in sight except kala nag pudmini and the elephant with the rope gall and there be neither sign nor rustle nor whisper down the hillside to show where the others have go. 
little toomai star again and again. the clear a he remember it have grow in the night. more tree stand in the middle of it but the undergrowth and the jungle grass at the side have be roll back. little toomai star once more. now he understand the trample. the elephant have stamp out more room have stamp the thick grass and juicy cane to trash the trash into sliver the sliver into tiny fiber and the fiber into hard earth. 
wah. say little toomai and his eye be very heavy. kala nag my lord let u keep by pudmini and go to petersen sahib s camp or i shall drop from thy neck. 
the third elephant watch the two go away snort wheel round and take his own path. he may have belong to some little native king s establishment fifty or sixty or a hundred mile away. 
two hour late a petersen sahib be eat early breakfast his elephant who have be double chain that night begin to trumpet and pudmini mire to the shoulder with kala nag very footsore shamble into the camp. little toomai s face be gray and pinch and his hair be full of leaf and drench with dew but he try to salute petersen sahib and cry faintly. the dance the elephant dance. i have see it and i die. a kala nag sit down he slide off his neck in a dead faint. 
but since native child have no nerve worth speak of in two hour he be lie very contentedly in petersen sahib s hammock with petersen sahib s shoot coat under his head and a glass of warm milk a little brandy with a dash of quinine inside of him and while the old hairy scar hunter of the jungle sit three deep before him look at him a though he be a spirit he tell his tale in short word a a child will and wind up with. 
now if i lie in one word send men to see and they will find that the elephant folk have trample down more room in their dance room and they will find ten and ten and many time ten track lead to that dance room. they make more room with their foot. i have see it. kala nag take me and i saw. also kala nag be very leg weary. 
little toomai lay back and sleep all through the long afternoon and into the twilight and while he sleep petersen sahib and machua appa follow the track of the two elephant for fifteen mile across the hill. petersen sahib have spend eighteen year in catch elephant and he have only once before find such a dance place. machua appa have no need to look twice at the clear to see what have be do there or to scratch with his toe in the pack ram earth. 
the child speak truth say he. all this be do last night and i have count seventy track cross the river. see sahib where pudmini s leg iron cut the bark of that tree. yes. she be there too. 
they look at one another and up and down and they wonder. for the way of elephant be beyond the wit of any man black or white to fathom. 
forty year and five say machua appa have i follow my lord the elephant but never have i hear that any child of man have see what this child ha see. by all the god of the hill it be what can we say. and he shake his head. 
when they get back to camp it be time for the even meal. petersen sahib eat alone in his tent but he give order that the camp should have two sheep and some fowl a well a a double ration of flour and rice and salt for he know that there would be a feast. 
big toomai have come up hotfoot from the camp in the plain to search for his son and his elephant and now that he have find them he look at them a though he be afraid of them both. and there be a feast by the blaze campfire in front of the line of picket elephant and little toomai be the hero of it all. and the big brown elephant catcher the tracker and driver and roper and the men who know all the secret of break the wild elephant pass him from one to the other and they mark his forehead with blood from the breast of a newly kill jungle cock to show that he be a fore initiate and free of all the jungle. 
and at last when the flame die down and the red light of the log make the elephant look a though they have be dip in blood too machua appa the head of all the driver of all the keddahs machua appa petersen sahib s other self who have never see a make road in forty year. machua appa who be so great that he have no other name than machua appa leap to his foot with little toomai hold high in the air above his head and shout. listen my brother. listen too you my lord in the line there for i machua appa be speak. this little one shall no more be call little toomai but toomai of the elephant a his great grandfather be call before him. what never man ha see he ha see through the long night and the favor of the elephant folk and of the god of the jungle be with him. he shall become a great tracker. he shall become great than i even i machua appa. he shall follow the new trail and the stale trail and the mix trail with a clear eye. he shall take no harm in the keddah when he run under their belly to rope the wild tusker. and if he slip before the foot of the charge bull elephant the bull elephant shall know who he be and shall not crush him. aihai. my lord in the chain he whirl up the line of picket here be the little one that ha see your dance in your hide place the sight that never man saw. give him honor my lord. salaam karo my child. make your salute to toomai of the elephant. gunga pershad ahaa. hira guj birchi guj kuttar guj ahaa. pudmini thou hast see him at the dance and thou too kala nag my pearl among elephant. ahaa. together. to toomai of the elephant. barrao. 
and at that last wild yell the whole line fling up their trunk till the tip touch their forehead and break out into the full salute the crash trumpet peal that only the viceroy of india hear the salaamut of the keddah. 
but it be all for the sake of little toomai who have see what never man have see before the dance of the elephant at night and alone in the heart of the garo hill. 
shiv and the grasshopper. 
the song that toomai s mother sing to the baby. 
shiv who pour the harvest and make the wind to blow sit at the doorway of a day of long ago give to each his portion food and toil and fate from the king upon the guddee to the beggar at the gate. all thing make he shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. he make all thorn for the camel fodder for the kine and mother s heart for sleepy head o little son of mine. 
wheat he give to rich folk millet to the poor break scrap for holy men that beg from door to door. battle to the tiger carrion to the kite and rag and bone to wicked wolf without the wall at night. naught he find too lofty none he saw too low parbati beside him watch them come and go. think to cheat her husband turn shiv to jest steal the little grasshopper and hide it in her breast. so she trick him shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. turn and see. tall be the camel heavy be the kine but this be least of little thing o little son of mine. 
when the dole be end laughingly she say master of a million mouth be not one unfed. laugh shiv make answer all have have their part even he the little one hide neath thy heart. from her breast she pluck it parbati the thief saw the least of little thing gnaw a new grow leaf. saw and fear and wonder make prayer to shiv who hath surely give meat to all that live. all thing make he shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. he make all thorn for the camel fodder for the kine and mother s heart for sleepy head o little son of mine. 
her majesty s servant. 
you can work it out by fraction or by simple rule of three but the way of tweedle dum be not the way of tweedle dee. you can twist it you can turn it you can plait it till you drop but the way of pilly winky s not the way of winkie pop. 
it have be rain heavily for one whole month rain on a camp of thirty thousand men and thousand of camel elephant horse bullock and mule all gather together at a place call rawal pindi to be review by the viceroy of india. he be receive a visit from the amir of afghanistan a wild king of a very wild country. the amir have bring with him for a bodyguard eight hundred men and horse who have never see a camp or a locomotive before in their life savage men and savage horse from somewhere at the back of central asia. every night a mob of these horse would be sure to break their heel rope and stampede up and down the camp through the mud in the dark or the camel would break loose and run about and fall over the rope of the tent and you can imagine how pleasant that be for men try to go to sleep. my tent lay far away from the camel line and i think it be safe. but one night a man pop his head in and shout get out quick. they re come. my tent s go. 
i know who they be so i put on my boot and waterproof and scuttle out into the slush. little vixen my fox terrier go out through the other side. and then there be a roar and a grunt and bubble and i saw the tent cave in a the pole snap and begin to dance about like a mad ghost. a camel have blunder into it and wet and angry a i be i could not help laugh. then i run on because i do not know how many camel might have get loose and before long i be out of sight of the camp plow my way through the mud. 
at last i fell over the tail end of a gun and by that know i be somewhere near the artillery line where the cannon be stack at night. a i do not want to plowter about any more in the drizzle and the dark i put my waterproof over the muzzle of one gun and make a sort of wigwam with two or three rammer that i find and lay along the tail of another gun wonder where vixen have get to and where i might be. 
just a i be get ready to go to sleep i hear a jingle of harness and a grunt and a mule pass me shake his wet ear. he belong to a screw gun battery for i could hear the rattle of the strap and ring and chain and thing on his saddle pad. the screw gun be tiny little cannon make in two piece that be screw together when the time come to use them. they be take up mountain anywhere that a mule can find a road and they be very useful for fight in rocky country. 
behind the mule there be a camel with his big soft foot squelch and slip in the mud and his neck bob to and fro like a stray hen s. luckily i know enough of beast language not wild beast language but camp beast language of course from the native to know what he be say. 
he must have be the one that flop into my tent for he call to the mule what shall i do. where shall i go. i have fight with a white thing that wave and it take a stick and hit me on the neck. that be my break tent pole and i be very glad to know it. shall we run on. 
oh it be you say the mule you and your friend that have be disturb the camp. all right. you ll be beat for this in the morning. but i may a well give you something on account now. 
i hear the harness jingle a the mule back and catch the camel two kick in the rib that ring like a drum. another time he say you ll know good than to run through a mule battery at night shout `thieves and fire. sit down and keep your silly neck quiet. 
the camel double up camel fashion like a two foot rule and sit down whimper. there be a regular beat of hoof in the darkness and a big troop horse canter up a steadily a though he be on parade jump a gun tail and land close to the mule. 
it s disgraceful he say blow out his nostril. those camel have racket through our line again the third time this week. how s a horse to keep his condition if he isn t allow to sleep. who s here. 
i m the breech piece mule of number two gun of the first screw battery say the mule and the other s one of your friend. he s wake me up too. who be you. 
number fifteen e troop ninth lancer dick cunliffe s horse. stand over a little there. 
oh beg your pardon say the mule. it s too dark to see much. aren t these camel too sicken for anything. i walk out of my line to get a little peace and quiet here. 
my lord say the camel humbly we dream bad dream in the night and we be very much afraid. i be only a baggage camel of the th native infantry and i be not a brave a you be my lord. 
then why didn t you stay and carry baggage for the th native infantry instead of run all round the camp. say the mule. 
they be such very bad dream say the camel. i be sorry. listen. what be that. shall we run on again. 
sit down say the mule or you ll snap your long stick leg between the gun. he cock one ear and listen. bullock. he say. gun bullock. on my word you and your friend have wake the camp very thoroughly. it take a good deal of prod to put up a gun bullock. 
i hear a chain drag along the grind and a yoke of the great sulky white bullock that drag the heavy siege gun when the elephant win t go any near to the fire come shoulder along together. and almost step on the chain be another battery mule call wildly for billy. 
that s one of our recruit say the old mule to the troop horse. he s call for me. here youngster stop squeal. the dark never hurt anybody yet. 
the gun bullock lay down together and begin chew the cud but the young mule huddle close to billy. 
thing. he say. fearful and horrible billy. they come into our line while we be asleep. d you think they ll kill u. 
i ve a very great mind to give you a number one kick say billy. the idea of a fourteen hand mule with your train disgrace the battery before this gentleman. 
gently gently. say the troop horse. remember they be always like this to begin with. the first time i ever saw a man. it be in australia when i be a three year old. i run for half a day and if i d see a camel i should have be run still. 
nearly all our horse for the english cavalry be bring to india from australia and be break in by the trooper themselves. 
true enough say billy. stop shake youngster. the first time they put the full harness with all it chain on my back i stand on my foreleg and kick every bite of it off. i hadn t learn the real science of kick then but the battery say they have never see anything like it. 
but this wasn t harness or anything that jingle say the young mule. you know i don t mind that now billy. it be thing like tree and they fell up and down the line and bubble. and my head rope break and i couldn t find my driver and i couldn t find you billy so i run off with with these gentleman. 
h m. say billy. a soon a i hear the camel be loose i come away on my own account. when a battery a screw gun mule call gun bullock gentleman he must be very badly shake up. who be you fellow on the grind there. 
the gun bullock roll their cud and answer both together. the seventh yoke of the first gun of the big gun battery. we be asleep when the camel come but when we be trample on we get up and walk away. it be good to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturb on good bed. we tell your friend here that there be nothing to be afraid of but he know so much that he think otherwise. wah. 
they go on chew. 
that come of be afraid say billy. you get laugh at by gun bullock. i hope you like it young un. 
the young mule s teeth snap and i hear him say something about not be afraid of any beefy old bullock in the world. but the bullock only click their horn together and go on chew. 
now don t be angry after you ve be afraid. that s the bad kind of cowardice say the troop horse. anybody can be forgive for be scar in the night i think if they see thing they don t understand. we ve break out of our picket again and again four hundred and fifty of u just because a new recruit get to tell tale of whip snake at home in australia till we be scar to death of the loose end of our head rope. 
that s all very well in camp say billy. i m not above stampede myself for the fun of the thing when i haven t be out for a day or two. but what do you do on active service. 
oh that s quite another set of new shoe say the troop horse. dick cunliffe s on my back then and drive his knee into me and all i have to do be to watch where i be put my foot and to keep my hind leg well under me and be bridle wise. 
what s bridle wise. say the young mule. 
by the blue gum of the back block snort the troop horse do you mean to say that you aren t teach to be bridle wise in your business. how can you do anything unless you can spin round at once when the rein be press on your neck. it mean life or death to your man and of course that s life and death to you. get round with your hind leg under you the instant you feel the rein on your neck. if you haven t room to swing round rear up a little and come round on your hind leg. that s be bridle wise. 
we aren t teach that way say billy the mule stiffly. we re teach to obey the man at our head. step off when he say so and step in when he say so. i suppose it come to the same thing. now with all this fine fancy business and rear which must be very bad for your hock what do you do. 
that depend say the troop horse. generally i have to go in among a lot of yell hairy men with knife long shiny knife bad than the farrier s knife and i have to take care that dick s boot be just touch the next man s boot without crush it. i can see dick s lance to the right of my right eye and i know i m safe. i shouldn t care to be the man or horse that stand up to dick and me when we re in a hurry. 
don t the knife hurt. say the young mule. 
well i get one cut across the chest once but that wasn t dick s fault. 
a lot i should have care whose fault it be if it hurt. say the young mule. 
you must say the troop horse. if you don t trust your man you may a well run away at once. that s what some of our horse do and i don t blame them. a i be say it wasn t dick s fault. the man be lie on the grind and i stretch myself not to tread on him and he slash up at me. next time i have to go over a man lie down i shall step on him hard. 
h m. say billy. it sound very foolish. knife be dirty thing at any time. the proper thing to do be to climb up a mountain with a well balance saddle hang on by all four foot and your ear too and creep and crawl and wriggle along till you come out hundred of foot above anyone else on a ledge where there s just room enough for your hoof. then you stand still and keep quiet never ask a man to hold your head young un keep quiet while the gun be be put together and then you watch the little poppy shell drop down into the tree top ever so far below. 
don t you ever trip. say the troop horse. 
they say that when a mule trip you can split a hen s ear say billy. now and again perhaps a badly pack saddle will upset a mule but it s very seldom. i wish i could show you our business. it s beautiful. why it take me three year to find out what the men be drive at. the science of the thing be never to show up against the sky line because if you do you may get fire at. remember that young un. always keep hide a much a possible even if you have to go a mile out of your way. i lead the battery when it come to that sort of climb. 
fire at without the chance of run into the people who be fire. say the troop horse think hard. i couldn t stand that. i should want to charge with dick. 
oh no you wouldn t. you know that a soon a the gun be in position they ll do all the charge. that s scientific and neat. but knife pah. 
the baggage camel have be bob his head to and fro for some time past anxious to get a word in edgewise. then i hear him say a he clear his throat nervously. 
i i i have fight a little but not in that climb way or that run way. 
no. now you mention it say billy you don t look a though you be make for climb or run much. well how be it old hay bale. 
the proper way say the camel. we all sit down. 
oh my crupper and breastplate. say the troop horse under his breath. sit down. 
we sit down a hundred of u the camel go on in a big square and the men pile our pack and saddle outside the square and they fire over our back the men do on all side of the square. 
what sort of men. any men that come along. say the troop horse. they teach u in rid school to lie down and let our master fire across u but dick cunliffe be the only man i d trust to do that. it tickle my girth and besides i can t see with my head on the grind. 
what doe it matter who fire across you. say the camel. there be plenty of men and plenty of other camel close by and a great many cloud of smoke. i be not frighten then. i sit still and wait. 
and yet say billy you dream bad dream and upset the camp at night. well well. before i d lie down not to speak of sit down and let a man fire across me my heel and his head would have something to say to each other. do you ever hear anything so awful a that. 
there be a long silence and then one of the gun bullock lift up his big head and say this be very foolish indeed. there be only one way of fight. 
oh go on say billy. please don t mind me. i suppose you fellow fight stand on your tail. 
only one way say the two together. they must have be twin. this be that way. to put all twenty yoke of u to the big gun a soon a two tail trumpet. two tail be camp slang for the elephant. 
what doe two tail trumpet for. say the young mule. 
to show that he be not go any near to the smoke on the other side. two tail be a great coward. then we tug the big gun all together heya hullah. heeyah. hullah. we do not climb like cat nor run like calf. we go across the level plain twenty yoke of u till we be unyoke again and we graze while the big gun talk across the plain to some town with mud wall and piece of the wall fall out and the dust go up a though many cattle be come home. 
oh. and you choose that time for graze. say the young mule. 
that time or any other. eat be always good. we eat till we be yoke up again and tug the gun back to where two tail be wait for it. sometimes there be big gun in the city that speak back and some of u be kill and then there be all the more graze for those that be leave. this be fate. none the le two tail be a great coward. that be the proper way to fight. we be brother from hapur. our father be a sacred bull of shiva. we have speak. 
well i ve certainly learn something tonight say the troop horse. do you gentleman of the screw gun battery feel incline to eat when you be be fire at with big gun and two tail be behind you. 
about a much a we feel incline to sit down and let men sprawl all over u or run into people with knife. i never hear such stuff. a mountain ledge a well balance load a driver you can trust to let you pick your own way and i m your mule. but the other thing no. say billy with a stamp of his foot. 
of course say the troop horse everyone be not make in the same way and i can quite see that your family on your father s side would fail to understand a great many thing. 
never you mind my family on my father s side say billy angrily for every mule hate to be remind that his father be a donkey. my father be a southern gentleman and he could pull down and bite and kick into rag every horse he come across. remember that you big brown brumby. 
brumby mean wild horse without any breed. imagine the feeling of sunol if a car horse call her a skate and you can imagine how the australian horse felt. i saw the white of his eye glitter in the dark. 
see here you son of an import malaga jackass he say between his teeth i d have you know that i m relate on my mother s side to carbine winner of the melbourne cup and where i come from we aren t accustom to be ride over roughshod by any parrot mouth pig head mule in a pop gun pea shooter battery. be you ready. 
on your hind leg. squeal billy. they both rear up face each other and i be expect a furious fight when a gurgly rumbly voice call out of the darkness to the right child what be you fight about there. be quiet. 
both beast drop down with a snort of disgust for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen to an elephant s voice. 
it s two tail. say the troop horse. i can t stand him. a tail at each end isn t fair. 
my feeling exactly say billy crowd into the troop horse for company. we re very alike in some thing. 
i suppose we ve inherit them from our mother say the troop horse. it s not worth quarrel about. hi. two tail be you tie up. 
yes say two tail with a laugh all up his trunk. i m picket for the night. i ve hear what you fellow have be say. but don t be afraid. i m not come over. 
the bullock and the camel say half aloud afraid of two tail what nonsense. and the bullock go on we be sorry that you hear but it be true. two tail why be you afraid of the gun when they fire. 
well say two tail rub one hind leg against the other exactly like a little boy say a poem i don t quite know whether you d understand. 
we don t but we have to pull the gun say the bullock. 
i know it and i know you be a good deal brave than you think you be. but it s different with me. my battery captain call me a pachydermatous anachronism the other day. 
that s another way of fight i suppose. say billy who be recover his spirit. 
you don t know what that mean of course but i do. it mean betwixt and between and that be just where i be. i can see inside my head what will happen when a shell burst and you bullock can t. 
i can say the troop horse. at least a little bite. i try not to think about it. 
i can see more than you and i do think about it. i know there s a great deal of me to take care of and i know that nobody know how to cure me when i m sick. all they can do be to stop my driver s pay till i get well and i can t trust my driver. 
ah. say the troop horse. that explain it. i can trust dick. 
you could put a whole regiment of dick on my back without make me feel any good. i know just enough to be uncomfortable and not enough to go on in spite of it. 
we do not understand say the bullock. 
i know you don t. i m not talk to you. you don t know what blood be. 
we do say the bullock. it be red stuff that soak into the grind and smell. 
the troop horse give a kick and a bind and a snort. 
don t talk of it he say. i can smell it now just think of it. it make me want to run when i haven t dick on my back. 
but it be not here say the camel and the bullock. why be you so stupid. 
it s vile stuff say billy. i don t want to run but i don t want to talk about it. 
there you be. say two tail wave his tail to explain. 
surely. yes we have be here all night say the bullock. 
two tail stamp his foot till the iron ring on it jingle. oh i m not talk to you. you can t see inside your head. 
no. we see out of our four eye say the bullock. we see straight in front of u. 
if i could do that and nothing else you wouldn t be need to pull the big gun at all. if i be like my captain he can see thing inside his head before the fire begin and he shake all over but he know too much to run away if i be like him i could pull the gun. but if i be a wise a all that i should never be here. i should be a king in the forest a i use to be sleep half the day and bath when i like. i haven t have a good bath for a month. 
that s all very fine say billy. but give a thing a long name doesn t make it any good. 
h sh. say the troop horse. i think i understand what two tail mean. 
you ll understand good in a minute say two tail angrily. now you just explain to me why you don t like this. 
he begin trumpet furiously at the top of his trumpet. 
stop that. say billy and the troop horse together and i could hear them stamp and shiver. an elephant s trumpet be always nasty especially on a dark night. 
i shan t stop say two tail. win t you explain that please. hhrrmph. rrrt. rrrmph. rrrhha. then he stop suddenly and i hear a little whimper in the dark and know that vixen have find me at last. she know a well a i do that if there be one thing in the world the elephant be more afraid of than another it be a little bark dog. so she stop to bully two tail in his picket and yap round his big foot. two tail shuffle and squeak. go away little dog. he say. don t snuff at my ankle or i ll kick at you. good little dog nice little doggie then. go home you yelp little beast. oh why doesn t someone take her away. she ll bite me in a minute. 
seem to me say billy to the troop horse that our friend two tail be afraid of most thing. now if i have a full meal for every dog i ve kick across the parade grind i should be a fat a two tail nearly. 
i whistle and vixen run up to me muddy all over and lick my nose and tell me a long tale about hunt for me all through the camp. i never let her know that i understand beast talk or she would have take all sort of liberty. so i button her into the breast of my overcoat and two tail shuffle and stamp and growl to himself. 
extraordinary. most extraordinary. he say. it run in our family. now where ha that nasty little beast go to. 
i hear him feel about with his trunk. 
we all seem to be affect in various way he go on blow his nose. now you gentleman be alarm i believe when i trumpet. 
not alarm exactly say the troop horse but it make me feel a though i have hornet where my saddle ought to be. don t begin again. 
i m frighten of a little dog and the camel here be frighten by bad dream in the night. 
it be very lucky for u that we haven t all get to fight in the same way say the troop horse. 
what i want to know say the young mule who have be quiet for a long time what i want to know be why we have to fight at all. 
because we re tell to say the troop horse with a snort of contempt. 
order say billy the mule and his teeth snap. 
hukm hai. it be an order. say the camel with a gurgle and two tail and the bullock repeat hukm hai. 
yes but who give the order. say the recruit mule. 
the man who walk at your head or sit on your back or hold the nose rope or twist your tail say billy and the troop horse and the camel and the bullock one after the other. 
but who give them the order. 
now you want to know too much young un say billy and that be one way of get kick. all you have to do be to obey the man at your head and ask no question. 
he s quite right say two tail. i can t always obey because i m betwixt and between. but billy s right. obey the man next to you who give the order or you ll stop all the battery besides get a thrash. 
the gun bullock get up to go. morning be come they say. we will go back to our line. it be true that we only see out of our eye and we be not very clever. but still we be the only people to night who have not be afraid. good night you brave people. 
nobody answer and the troop horse say to change the conversation where s that little dog. a dog mean a man somewhere about. 
here i be yap vixen under the gun tail with my man. you big blunder beast of a camel you you upset our tent. my man s very angry. 
phew. say the bullock. he must be white. 
of course he be say vixen. do you suppose i m look after by a black bullock driver. 
huah. ouach. ugh. say the bullock. let u get away quickly. 
they plunge forward in the mud and manage somehow to run their yoke on the pole of an ammunition wagon where it jam. 
now you have do it say billy calmly. don t struggle. you re hang up till daylight. what on earth s the matter. 
the bullock go off into the long hiss snort that indian cattle give and push and crowd and slue and stamp and slip and nearly fell down in the mud grunt savagely. 
you ll break your neck in a minute say the troop horse. what s the matter with white men. i live with em. 
they eat u. pull. say the near bullock. the yoke snap with a twang and they lumber off together. 
i never know before what make indian cattle so scar of englishman. we eat beef a thing that no cattle driver touch and of course the cattle do not like it. 
may i be flog with my own pad chain. who d have think of two big lump like those lose their head. say billy. 
never mind. i m go to look at this man. most of the white men i know have thing in their pocket say the troop horse. 
i ll leave you then. i can t say i m over fond of em myself. besides white men who haven t a place to sleep in be more than likely to be thief and i ve a good deal of government property on my back. come along young un and we ll go back to our line. good night australia. see you on parade to morrow i suppose. good night old hay bale. try to control your feeling win t you. good night two tail. if you pas u on the grind tomorrow don t trumpet. it spoil our formation. 
billy the mule stump off with the swagger limp of an old campaigner a the troop horse s head come nuzzle into my breast and i give him biscuit while vixen who be a most conceited little dog tell him fib about the score of horse that she and i keep. 
i m come to the parade to morrow in my dog cart she say. where will you be. 
on the leave hand of the second squadron. i set the time for all my troop little lady he say politely. now i must go back to dick. my tail s all muddy and he ll have two hour hard work dress me for parade. 
the big parade of all the thirty thousand men be hold that afternoon and vixen and i have a good place close to the viceroy and the amir of afghanistan with high big black hat of astrakhan wool and the great diamond star in the center. the first part of the review be all sunshine and the regiment go by in wave upon wave of leg all move together and gun all in a line till our eye grow dizzy. then the cavalry come up to the beautiful cavalry canter of bonnie dundee and vixen cock her ear where she sit on the dog cart. the second squadron of the lancer shoot by and there be the troop horse with his tail like spin silk his head pull into his breast one ear forward and one back set the time for all his squadron his leg go a smoothly a waltz music. then the big gun come by and i saw two tail and two other elephant harness in line to a forty pounder siege gun while twenty yoke of ox walk behind. the seventh pair have a new yoke and they look rather stiff and tire. last come the screw gun and billy the mule carry himself a though he command all the troop and his harness be oil and polish till it wink. i give a cheer all by myself for billy the mule but he never look right or leave. 
the rain begin to fall again and for a while it be too misty to see what the troop be do. they have make a big half circle across the plain and be spread out into a line. that line grow and grow and grow till it be three quarter of a mile long from wing to wing one solid wall of men horse and gun. then it come on straight toward the viceroy and the amir and a it get near the grind begin to shake like the deck of a steamer when the engine be go fast. 
unless you have be there you cannot imagine what a frighten effect this steady come down of troop ha on the spectator even when they know it be only a review. i look at the amir. up till then he have not show the shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything else. but now his eye begin to get big and big and he pick up the rein on his horse s neck and look behind him. for a minute it seem a though he be go to draw his sword and slash his way out through the english men and woman in the carriage at the back. then the advance stop dead the grind stand still the whole line salute and thirty band begin to play all together. that be the end of the review and the regiment go off to their camp in the rain and an infantry band strike up with. 
the animal go in two by two hurrah. the animal go in two by two the elephant and the battery mul and they all get into the ark for to get out of the rain. 
then i hear an old grizzle long haired central asian chief who have come down with the amir ask question of a native officer. 
now say he in what manner be this wonderful thing do. 
and the officer answer an order be give and they obey. 
but be the beast a wise a the men. say the chief. 
they obey a the men do. mule horse elephant or bullock he obey his driver and the driver his sergeant and the sergeant his lieutenant and the lieutenant his captain and the captain his major and the major his colonel and the colonel his brigadier command three regiment and the brigadier the general who obey the viceroy who be the servant of the empress. thus it be do. 
would it be so in afghanistan. say the chief for there we obey only our own will. 
and for that reason say the native officer twirl his mustache your amir whom you do not obey must come here and take order from our viceroy. 
parade song of the camp animal. 
elephant of the gun team. 
we lend to alexander the strength of hercules the wisdom of our forehead the cunning of our knee. we bow our neck to service. they ne er be loose again make way there way for the ten foot team of the forty pounder train. 
gun bullock. 
those hero in their harness avoid a cannon ball and what they know of powder upset them one and all. then we come into action and tug the gun again make way there way for the twenty yoke of the forty pounder train. 
cavalry horse. 
by the brand on my shoulder the fine of tune be play by the lancer hussar and dragoon and it s sweet than stable or water to me the cavalry canter of bonnie dundee. 
then fee u and break u and handle and groom and give u good rider and plenty of room and launch u in column of squadron and see the way of the war horse to bonnie dundee. 
screw gun mule. 
a me and my companion be scramble up a hill the path be lose in roll stone but we go forward still. for we can wriggle and climb my lad and turn up everywhere oh it s our delight on a mountain height with a leg or two to spare. 
good luck to every sergeant then that let u pick our road. bad luck to all the driver men that cannot pack a load. for we can wriggle and climb my lad and turn up everywhere oh it s our delight on a mountain height with a leg or two to spare. 
commissariat camel. 
we haven t a camelty tune of our own to help u trollop along but every neck be a hair trombone. rtt ta ta ta. be a hair trombone. and this our march song. can t. don t. shan t. win t. pas it along the line. somebody s pack ha slide from his back wish it be only mine. somebody s load ha tip off in the road cheer for a halt and a row. urrr. yarrh. grr. arrh. somebody s catch it now. 
all the beast together. 
child of the camp be we serve each in his degree. child of the yoke and goad pack and harness pad and load. see our line across the plain like a heel rope bend again reach writhe roll far sweep all away to war. while the men that walk beside dusty silent heavy eye cannot tell why we or they march and suffer day by day. child of the camp be we serve each in his degree. child of the yoke and goad pack and harness pad and load. 
