the man who would be king. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
publish by brentano’s at union square new york. 
the man who would be king. 
“brother to a prince and fellow to a beggar if he be find worthy. ”. 
the law a quote lay down a fair conduct of life and one not easy to follow. i have be fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstance which prevent either of u find out whether the other be worthy. i have still to be brother to a prince though i once come near to kinship with what might have be a veritable king and be promise the reversion of a kingdom —army law court revenue and policy all complete. but to day i greatly fear that my king be dead and if i want a crown i must go and hunt it for myself. 
the begin of everything be in a railway train upon the road to mhow from ajmir. there have be a deficit in the budget which necessitate travel not second class which be only half a dear a first class but by intermediate which be very awful indeed. there be no cushion in the intermediate class and the population be either intermediate which be eurasian or native which for a long night journey be nasty. or loafer which be amuse though intoxicate. intermediate do not patronize refreshment room. they carry their food in bundle and pot and buy sweet from the native sweetmeat seller and drink the roadside water. that be why in the hot weather intermediate be take out of the carriage dead and in all weather be most properly look down upon. 
my particular intermediate happen to be empty till i reach nasirabad when a huge gentleman in shirt sleeve enter and follow the custom of intermediate pass the time of day. he be a wanderer and a vagabond like myself but with an educate taste for whiskey. he tell tale of thing he have see and do of out of the way corner of the empire into which he have penetrate and of adventure in which he risk his life for a few days’ food. “if india be fill with men like you and me not know more than the crow where they’d get their next day’s ration it isn’t seventy million of revenue the land would be paying—it’s seven hundred million ” say he. and a i look at his mouth and chin i be dispose to agree with him. we talk politics—the politics of loaferdom that see thing from the underside where the lath and plaster be not smooth off—and we talk postal arrangement because my friend want to send a telegram back from the next station to ajmir which be the turn off place from the bombay to the mhow line a you travel westward. my friend have no money beyond eight anna which he want for dinner and i have no money at all owe to the hitch in the budget before mention. further i be go into a wilderness where though i should resume touch with the treasury there be no telegraph office. i be therefore unable to help him in any way. 
“we might threaten a station master and make him send a wire on tick ” say my friend “but that’d mean inquiry for you and for me and i’ve get my hand full these day. do you say you be travel back along this line within any day. ”. 
“within ten ” i say. 
“can’t you make it eight. ” say he. “mine be rather urgent business. ”. 
“i can send your telegram within ten day if that will serve you ” i say. 
“i couldn’t trust the wire to fetch him now i think of it. it’s this way. he leaf delhi on the d for bombay. that mean he’ll be run through ajmir about the night of the d. ”. 
“but i’m go into the indian desert ” i explain. 
“well and good ” say he. “you’ll be change at marwar junction to get into jodhpore territory—you must do that—and he’ll be come through marwar junction in the early morning of the th by the bombay mail. can you be at marwar junction on that time. ’twon’t be inconvenience you because i know that there’s precious few picking to be get out of these central india states—even though you pretend to be correspondent of the backwoodsman. ”. 
“have you ever try that trick. ” i ask. 
“again and again but the resident find you out and then you get escort to the border before you’ve time to get your knife into them. but about my friend here. i must give him a word o’ mouth to tell him what’s come to me or else he won’t know where to go. i would take it more than kind of you if you be to come out of central india in time to catch him at marwar junction and say to him. —‘he ha go south for the week. ’ he’ll know what that mean. he’s a big man with a red beard and a great swell he be. you’ll find him sleep like a gentleman with all his luggage round him in a second class compartment. but don’t you be afraid. slip down the window and say. —‘he ha go south for the week ’ and he’ll tumble. it’s only cut your time of stay in those part by two day. i ask you a a stranger—going to the west ” he say with emphasis. 
“where have you come from. ” say i. 
“from the east ” say he “and i be hop that you will give him the message on the square—for the sake of my mother a well a your own. ”. 
englishman be not usually soften by appeal to the memory of their mother but for certain reason which will be fully apparent i saw fit to agree. 
“it’s more than a little matter ” say he “and that’s why i ask you to do it—and now i know that i can depend on you do it. a second class carriage at marwar junction and a red haired man asleep in it. you’ll be sure to remember. i get out at the next station and i must hold on there till he come or send me what i want. ”. 
“i’ll give the message if i catch him ” i say “and for the sake of your mother a well a mine i’ll give you a word of advice. don’t try to run the central india state just now a the correspondent of the backwoodsman. there’s a real one knock about here and it might lead to trouble. ”. 
“thank you ” say he simply “and when will the swine be go. i can’t starve because he’s ruin my work. i want to get hold of the degumber rajah down here about his father’s widow and give him a jump. ”. 
“what do he do to his father’s widow then. ”. 
“filled her up with red pepper and slippered her to death a she hang from a beam. i find that out myself and i’m the only man that would dare go into the state to get hush money for it. they’ll try to poison me same a they do in chortumna when i go on the loot there. but you’ll give the man at marwar junction my message. ”. 
he get out at a little roadside station and i reflect. i have hear more than once of men personate correspondent of newspaper and bleed small native state with threat of exposure but i have never meet any of the caste before. they lead a hard life and generally die with great suddenness. the native state have a wholesome horror of english newspaper which may throw light on their peculiar method of government and do their best to choke correspondent with champagne or drive them out of their mind with four in hand barouche. they do not understand that nobody care a straw for the internal administration of native state so long a oppression and crime be keep within decent limit and the ruler be not drug drink or diseased from one end of the year to the other. native state be create by providence in order to supply picturesque scenery tiger and tall write. they be the dark place of the earth full of unimaginable cruelty touch the railway and the telegraph on one side and on the other the day of harun al raschid. when i leave the train i do business with diver king and in eight day pass through many change of life. sometimes i wear dress clothe and consort with prince and politicals drink from crystal and eat from silver. sometimes i lay out upon the grind and devour what i could get from a plate make of a flapjack and drink the run water and sleep under the same rug a my servant. it be all in a day’s work. 
then i head for the great indian desert upon the proper date a i have promise and the night mail set me down at marwar junction where a funny little happy go lucky native manage railway run to jodhpore. the bombay mail from delhi make a short halt at marwar. she arrive a i get in and i have just time to hurry to her platform and go down the carriage. there be only one second class on the train. i slip the window and look down upon a flame red beard half cover by a railway rug. that be my man fast asleep and i dig him gently in the rib. he wake with a grunt and i saw his face in the light of the lamp. it be a great and shin face. 
“tickets again. ” say he. 
“no ” say i. “i be to tell you that he be go south for the week. he be go south for the week. ”. 
the train have begin to move out. the red man rub his eye. “he ha go south for the week ” he repeat. “now that’s just like his impudence. do he say that i be to give you anything. —’cause i won’t. ”. 
“he didn’t ” i say and drop away and watch the red light die out in the dark. it be horribly cold because the wind be blow off the sand. i climb into my own train—not an intermediate carriage this time—and go to sleep. 
if the man with the beard have give me a rupee i should have keep it a a memento of a rather curious affair. but the consciousness of have do my duty be my only reward. 
late on i reflect that two gentleman like my friend could not do any good if they foregather and personate correspondent of newspaper and might if they “stuck up” one of the little rat trap state of central india or southern rajputana get themselves into serious difficulty. i therefore take some trouble to describe them a accurately a i could remember to people who would be interest in deport them. and succeed so i be late inform in have them head back from the degumber border. 
then i become respectable and return to an office where there be no king and no incident except the daily manufacture of a newspaper. a newspaper office seem to attract every conceivable sort of person to the prejudice of discipline. zenana mission lady arrive and beg that the editor will instantly abandon all his duty to describe a christian prize give in a back slum of a perfectly inaccessible village. colonel who have be overpassed for command sit down and sketch the outline of a series of ten twelve or twenty four lead article on seniority versus selection. missionary wish to know why they have not be permit to escape from their regular vehicle of abuse and swear at a brother missionary under special patronage of the editorial we. strand theatrical company troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their advertisement but on their return from new zealand or tahiti will do so with interest. inventor of patent punkah pull machine carriage coupling and unbreakable sword and axle tree call with specification in their pocket and hour at their disposal. tea company enter and elaborate their prospectus with the office pen. secretary of ball committee clamor to have the glory of their last dance more fully expound. strange lady rustle in and say. —“i want a hundred lady’s card print at once please ” which be manifestly part of an editor’s duty. and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramp the grand trunk road make it his business to ask for employment a a proof reader. and all the time the telephone bell be ring madly and king be be kill on the continent and empire be say “you’re another ” and mister gladstone be call down brimstone upon the british dominion and the little black copy boy be whine “kaa pi chayha yeh”. copy want. like tire bee and most of the paper be a blank a modred’s shield. 
but that be the amuse part of the year. there be other six month wherein none ever come to call and the thermometer walk inch by inch up to the top of the glass and the office be darken to just above read light and the press machine be red hot of touch and nobody write anything but account of amusement in the hill station or obituary notice. then the telephone become a tinkle terror because it tell you of the sudden death of men and woman that you know intimately and the prickly heat cover you a with a garment and you sit down and write. —“a slight increase of sickness be report from the khuda janta khan district. the outbreak be purely sporadic in it nature and thank to the energetic effort of the district authority be now almost at an end. it be however with deep regret we record the death etc. ”. 
then the sickness really break out and the le record and report the good for the peace of the subscriber. but the empire and the king continue to divert themselves a selfishly a before and the foreman think that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty four hour and all the people at the hill station in the middle of their amusement say. —“good gracious. why can’t the paper be sparkle. i’m sure there’s plenty go on up here. ”. 
that be the dark half of the moon and a the advertisement say “must be experience to be appreciate. ”. 
it be in that season and a remarkably evil season that the paper begin run the last issue of the week on saturday night which be to say sunday morning after the custom of a london paper. this be a great convenience for immediately after the paper be put to bed the dawn would low the thermometer from ° to almost ° for almost half an hour and in that chill—you have no idea how cold be ° on the grass until you begin to pray for it—a very tire man could set off to sleep ere the heat rouse him. 
one saturday night it be my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone. a king or courtier or a courtesan or a community be go to die or get a new constitution or do something that be important on the other side of the world and the paper be to be hold open till the late possible minute in order to catch the telegram. it be a pitchy black night a stifle a a june night can be and the loo the red hot wind from the westward be boom among the tinder dry tree and pretend that the rain be on it heel. now and again a spot of almost boil water would fall on the dust with the flop of a frog but all our weary world know that be only pretence. it be a shade cool in the press room than the office so i sit there while the type tick and click and the night jar hoot at the window and the all but naked compositor wipe the sweat from their forehead and call for water. the thing that be keep u back whatever it be would not come off though the loo drop and the last type be set and the whole round earth stand still in the choke heat with it finger on it lip to wait the event. i drowse and wonder whether the telegraph be a bless and whether this die man or struggle people be aware of the inconvenience the delay be cause. there be no special reason beyond the heat and worry to make tension but a the clock hand creep up to three o’clock and the machine spin their fly wheel two and three time to see that all be in order before i say the word that would set them off i could have shriek aloud. 
then the roar and rattle of the wheel shiver the quiet into little bit. i rise to go away but two men in white clothe stand in front of me. the first one say. —“it’s him. ” the second say —“so it be. ” and they both laugh almost a loudly a the machinery roar and mop their forehead. “we see there be a light burn across the road and we be sleep in that ditch there for coolness and i say to my friend here the office be open. let’s come along and speak to him a turn u back from the degumber state ” say the small of the two. he be the man i have meet in the mhow train and his fellow be the red beard man of marwar junction. there be no mistake the eyebrow of the one or the beard of the other. 
i be not please because i wish to go to sleep not to squabble with loafer. “what do you want. ” i ask. 
“half an hour’s talk with you cool and comfortable in the office ” say the red beard man. “we’d like some drink—the contrack doesn’t begin yet peachey so you needn’t look—but what we really want be advice. we don’t want money. we ask you a a favor because you do u a bad turn about degumber. ”. 
i lead from the press room to the stifle office with the map on the wall and the red haired man rub his hand. “that’s something like ” say he. “this be the proper shop to come to. now sir let me introduce to you brother peachey carnehan that’s him and brother daniel dravot that be me and the le say about our profession the good for we have be most thing in our time. soldier sailor compositor photographer proof reader street preacher and correspondent of the backwoodsman when we think the paper want one. carnehan be sober and so be i. look at u first and see that’s sure. it will save you cut into my talk. we’ll take one of your cigar apiece and you shall see u light. ” i watch the test. the men be absolutely sober so i give them each a tepid peg. 
“well and good ” say carnehan of the eyebrow wipe the froth from his mustache. “let me talk now dan. we have be all over india mostly on foot. we have be boiler fitter engine driver petty contractor and all that and we have decide that india isn’t big enough for such a u. ”. 
they certainly be too big for the office. dravot’s beard seem to fill half the room and carnehan’s shoulder the other half a they sit on the big table. carnehan continue. —“the country isn’t half work out because they that govern it won’t let you touch it. they spend all their bless time in govern it and you can’t lift a spade nor chip a rock nor look for oil nor anything like that without all the government saying—‘leave it alone and let u govern. ’ therefore such a it be we will let it alone and go away to some other place where a man isn’t crowd and can come to his own. we be not little men and there be nothing that we be afraid of except drink and we have sign a contrack on that. therefore we be go away to be king. ”. 
“kings in our own right ” mutter dravot. 
“yes of course ” i say. “you’ve be tramp in the sun and it’s a very warm night and hadn’t you good sleep over the notion. come to morrow. ”. 
“neither drink nor sunstruck ” say dravot. “we have sleep over the notion half a year and require to see book and atlas and we have decide that there be only one place now in the world that two strong men can sar a whack. they call it kafiristan. by my reckon it the top right hand corner of afghanistan not more than three hundred mile from peshawar. they have two and thirty heathen idol there and we’ll be the thirty third. it’s a mountainous country and the woman of those part be very beautiful. ”. 
“but that be provide against in the contrack ” say carnehan. “neither woman nor liquor daniel. ”. 
“and that’s all we know except that no one ha go there and they fight and in any place where they fight a man who know how to drill men can always be a king. we shall go to those part and say to any king we find—‘d’ you want to vanquish your foe. ’ and we will show him how to drill men. for that we know good than anything else. then we will subvert that king and seize his throne and establish a dy nasty. ”. 
“you’ll be cut to piece before you’re fifty mile across the border ” i say. “you have to travel through afghanistan to get to that country. it’s one mass of mountain and peak and glacier and no englishman ha be through it. the people be utter brute and even if you reach them you couldn’t do anything. ”. 
“that’s more like ” say carnehan. “if you could think u a little more mad we would be more please. we have come to you to know about this country to read a book about it and to be show map. we want you to tell u that we be fool and to show u your book. ” he turn to the book case. 
“are you at all in earnest. ” i say. 
“a little ” say dravot sweetly. “as big a map a you have get even if it’s all blank where kafiristan be and any book you’ve get. we can read though we aren’t very educate. ”. 
i uncase the big thirty two mile to the inch map of india and two small frontier map haul down volume inf kan of the encyclopædia britannica and the men consult them. 
“see here. ” say dravot his thumb on the map. “up to jagdallak peachey and me know the road. we be there with roberts’s army. we’ll have to turn off to the right at jagdallak through laghmann territory. then we get among the hills— fourteen thousand feet—fifteen thousand— it will be cold work there but it don’t look very far on the map. ”. 
i hand him wood on the source of the oxus. carnehan be deep in the encyclopædia. 
“they’re a mix lot ” say dravot reflectively. “and it won’t help u to know the name of their tribe. the more tribe the more they’ll fight and the good for u. from jagdallak to ashang. h’mm. ”. 
“but all the information about the country be a sketchy and inaccurate a can be ” i protest. “no one know anything about it really. here’s the file of the unite services’ institute. read what bellew say. ”. 
“blow bellew. ” say carnehan. “dan they’re an all fire lot of heathen but this book here say they think they’re relate to u english. ”. 
i smoke while the men pore over raverty wood the map and the encyclopædia. 
“there be no use your wait ” say dravot politely. “it’s about four o’clock now. we’ll go before six o’clock if you want to sleep and we won’t steal any of the paper. don’t you sit up. we’re two harmless lunatic and if you come to morrow even down to the serai we’ll say good by to you. ”. 
“you be two fool ” i answer. “you’ll be turn back at the frontier or cut up the minute you set foot in afghanistan. do you want any money or a recommendation down country. i can help you to the chance of work next week. ”. 
“next week we shall be hard at work ourselves thank you ” say dravot. “it isn’t so easy be a king a it look. when we’ve get our kingdom in go order we’ll let you know and you can come up and help u to govern it. ”. 
“would two lunatic make a contrack like that. ” say carnehan with subdue pride show me a greasy half sheet of note paper on which be write the follow. i copy it then and there a a curiosity. —. 
this contract between me and you persuing witnesseth in the name of god—amen and so forth. one. that me and you will settle this matter together. i. e. to be king of kafiristan. two. that you and me will not while this matter be be settle look at any liquor nor any woman black white or brown so a to get mix up with one or the other harmful. three. that we conduct ourselves with dignity and discretion and if one of u get into trouble the other will stay by him. 
sign by you and me this day. peachey taliaferro carnehan. daniel dravot. both gentleman at large. 
“there be no need for the last article ” say carnehan blush modestly. “but it look regular. now you know the sort of men that loafer are—we be loafer dan until we get out of india—and do you think that we could sign a contrack like that unless we be in earnest. we have keep away from the two thing that make life worth have. ”. 
“you won’t enjoy your life much long if you be go to try this idiotic adventure. don’t set the office on fire ” i say “and go away before nine o’clock. ”. 
i leave them still pore over the map and make note on the back of the “contrack. ” “be sure to come down to the serai to morrow ” be their part word. 
the kumharsen serai be the great four square sink of humanity where the string of camel and horse from the north load and unload. all the nationality of central asia may be find there and most of the folk of india proper. balkh and bokhara there meet bengal and bombay and try to draw eye teeth. you can buy pony turquoise persian pussy cat saddle bag fat tail sheep and musk in the kumharsen serai and get many strange thing for nothing. in the afternoon i go down there to see whether my friend intend to keep their word or be lie about drink. 
a priest attire in fragment of ribbon and rag stalk up to me gravely twist a child’s paper whirligig. behind him be his servant bend under the load of a crate of mud toy. the two be load up two camel and the inhabitant of the serai watch them with shriek of laughter. 
“the priest be mad ” say a horse dealer to me. “he be go up to kabul to sell toy to the amir. he will either be raise to honor or have his head cut off. he come in here this morning and ha be behave madly ever since. ”. 
“the witless be under the protection of god ” stammer a flat cheek usbeg in break hindi. “they foretell future event. ”. 
“would they could have foretell that my caravan would have be cut up by the shinwaris almost within shadow of the pas. ” grunt the eusufzai agent of a rajputana trade house whose good have be feloniously divert into the hand of other robber just across the border and whose misfortune be the laugh stock of the bazar. “ohé priest whence come you and whither do you go. ”. 
“from roum have i come ” shout the priest wave his whirligig. “from roum blow by the breath of a hundred devil across the sea. o thief robber liar the bless of pir khan on pig dog and perjurer. who will take the protect of god to the north to sell charm that be never still to the amir. the camel shall not gall the son shall not fall sick and the wife shall remain faithful while they be away of the men who give me place in their caravan. who will assist me to slipper the king of the roos with a golden slipper with a silver heel. the protection of pir kahn be upon his labor. ” he spread out the skirt of his gaberdine and pirouette between the line of tether horse. 
“there start a caravan from peshawar to kabul in twenty day huzrut ” say the eusufzai trader. “my camel go therewith. do thou also go and bring u good luck. ”. 
“i will go even now. ” shout the priest. “i will depart upon my wing camel and be at peshawar in a day. ho. hazar mir khan ” he yell to his servant “drive out the camel but let me first mount my own. ”. 
he leap on the back of his beast a it kneel and turn round to me cry. —. 
“come thou also sahib a little along the road and i will sell thee a charm—an amulet that shall make thee king of kafiristan. ”. 
then the light break upon me and i follow the two camel out of the serai till we reach open road and the priest halt. 
“what d’ you think o’ that. ” say he in english. “carnehan can’t talk their patter so i’ve make him my servant. he make a handsome servant. ’tisn’t for nothing that i’ve be knock about the country for fourteen year. didn’t i do that talk neat. we’ll hitch on to a caravan at peshawar till we get to jagdallak and then we’ll see if we can get donkey for our camel and strike into kafiristan. whirligig for the amir o lor. put your hand under the camel bag and tell me what you feel. ”. 
i felt the butt of a martini and another and another. 
“twenty of ’em ” say dravot placidly. 
“twenty of ’em and ammunition to correspond under the whirligig and the mud doll. ”. 
“heaven help you if you be catch with those thing. ” i say. “a martini be worth her weight in silver among the pathan. ”. 
“fifteen hundred rupee of capital—every rupee we could beg borrow or steal—are invest on these two camel ” say dravot. “we won’t get catch. we’re go through the khaiber with a regular caravan. who’d touch a poor mad priest. ”. 
“have you get everything you want. ” i ask overcome with astonishment. 
“not yet but we shall soon. give u a momento of your kindness brother. you do me a service yesterday and that time in marwar. half my kingdom shall you have a the say be. ” i slip a small charm compass from my watch chain and hand it up to the priest. 
“good by ” say dravot give me his hand cautiously. “it’s the last time we’ll shake hand with an englishman these many day. shake hand with him carnehan ” he cry a the second camel pass me. 
carnehan lean down and shake hand. then the camel pass away along the dusty road and i be leave alone to wonder. my eye could detect no failure in the disguise. the scene in the serai attest that they be complete to the native mind. there be just the chance therefore that carnehan and dravot would be able to wander through afghanistan without detection. but beyond they would find death certain and awful death. 
ten day late a native friend of mine give me the news of the day from peshawar wind up his letter with. —“there ha be much laughter here on account of a certain mad priest who be go in his estimation to sell petty gaud and insignificant trinket which he ascribe a great charm to h. h. the amir of bokhara. he pass through peshawar and associate himself to the second summer caravan that go to kabul. the merchant be please because through superstition they imagine that such mad fellow bring good fortune. ”. 
the two then be beyond the border. i would have pray for them but that night a real king die in europe and demand an obituary notice. 
* * * * * * * *. 
the wheel of the world swing through the same phase again and again. summer pass and winter thereafter and come and pass again. the daily paper continue and i with it and upon the third summer there fell a hot night a night issue and a strain wait for something to be telegraph from the other side of the world exactly a have happen before. a few great men have die in the past two year the machine work with more clatter and some of the tree in the office garden be a few foot tall. but that be all the difference. 
i pass over to the press room and go through just such a scene a i have already describe. the nervous tension be strong than it have be two year before and i felt the heat more acutely. at three o’clock i cry “print off ” and turn to go when there creep to my chair what be leave of a man. he be bend into a circle his head be sink between his shoulder and he move his foot one over the other like a bear. i could hardly see whether he walk or crawled—this rag wrap whine cripple who address me by name cry that he be come back. “can you give me a drink. ” he whimper. “for the lord’s sake give me a drink. ”. 
i go back to the office the man follow with groan of pain and i turn up the lamp. 
“don’t you know me. ” he gasp drop into a chair and he turn his draw face surmount by a shock of gray hair to the light. 
i look at him intently. once before have i see eyebrow that meet over the nose in an inch broad black band but for the life of me i could not tell where. 
“i don’t know you ” i say hand him the whiskey. “what can i do for you. ”. 
he take a gulp of the spirit raw and shiver in spite of the suffocate heat. 
“i’ve come back ” he repeat. “and i be the king of kafiristan—me and dravot —crowned king we be. in this office we settle it—you set there and give u the book. i be peachey—peachey taliaferro carnehan and you’ve be set here ever since—o lord. ”. 
i be more than a little astonish and express my feeling accordingly. 
“it’s true ” say carnehan with a dry cackle nurse his foot which be wrap in rag. “true a gospel. king we be with crown upon our heads—me and dravot —poor dan—oh poor poor dan that would never take advice not though i beg of him. ”. 
“take the whiskey ” i say “and take your own time. tell me all you can recollect of everything from begin to end. you get across the border on your camel dravot dress a a mad priest and you his servant. do you remember that. ”. 
“i ain’t mad—yet but i will be that way soon. of course i remember. keep look at me or maybe my word will go all to piece. keep look at me in my eye and don’t say anything. ”. 
i lean forward and look into his face a steadily a i could. he drop one hand upon the table and i grasp it by the wrist. it be twist like a bird’s claw and upon the back be a rag red diamond shape scar. 
“no don’t look there. look at me ” say carnehan. 
“that come afterwards but for the lord’s sake don’t distrack me. we leave with that caravan me and dravot play all sort of antic to amuse the people we be with. dravot use to make u laugh in the evening when all the people be cook their dinners—cooking their dinner and … what do they do then. they light little fire with spark that go into dravot’s beard and we all laughed—fit to die. little red fire they be go into dravot’s big red beard—so funny. ” his eye leave mine and he smile foolishly. 
“you go a far a jagdallak with that caravan ” i say at a venture “after you have light those fire. to jagdallak where you turn off to try to get into kafiristan. ”. 
“no we didn’t neither. what be you talk about. we turn off before jagdallak because we hear the road be good. but they wasn’t good enough for our two camels—mine and dravot’s. when we leave the caravan dravot take off all his clothe and mine too and say we would be heathen because the kafir didn’t allow mohammedan to talk to them. so we dress betwixt and between and such a sight a daniel dravot i never saw yet nor expect to see again. he burn half his beard and sling a sheep skin over his shoulder and shave his head into pattern. he shave mine too and make me wear outrageous thing to look like a heathen. that be in a most mountaineous country and our camel couldn’t go along any more because of the mountain. they be tall and black and come home i saw them fight like wild goats—there be lot of goat in kafiristan. and these mountain they never keep still no more than the goat. always fight they be and don’t let you sleep at night. ”. 
“take some more whiskey ” i say very slowly. “what do you and daniel dravot do when the camel could go no further because of the rough road that lead into kafiristan. ”. 
“what do which do. there be a party call peachey taliaferro carnehan that be with dravot. shall i tell you about him. he die out there in the cold. slap from the bridge fell old peachey turn and twist in the air like a penny whirligig that you can sell to the amir—no. they be two for three ha’pence those whirligig or i be much mistake and woful sore. and then these camel be no use and peachey say to dravot—‘for the lord’s sake let’s get out of this before our head be chop off ’ and with that they kill the camel all among the mountain not have anything in particular to eat but first they take off the box with the gun and the ammunition till two men come along drive four mule. dravot up and dance in front of them sing —‘sell me four mule. ’ say the first man —‘if you be rich enough to buy you be rich enough to rob. ’ but before ever he could put his hand to his knife dravot break his neck over his knee and the other party run away. so carnehan load the mule with the rifle that be take off the camel and together we start forward into those bitter cold mountainous part and never a road broad than the back of your hand. ”. 
he pause for a moment while i ask him if he could remember the nature of the country through which he have journey. 
“i be tell you a straight a i can but my head isn’t a good a it might be. they drive nail through it to make me hear good how dravot die. the country be mountainous and the mule be most contrary and the inhabitant be disperse and solitary. they go up and up and down and down and that other party carnehan be implore of dravot not to sing and whistle so loud for fear of bring down the tremenjus avalanche. but dravot say that if a king couldn’t sing it wasn’t worth be king and whack the mule over the rump and never take no heed for ten cold day. we come to a big level valley all among the mountain and the mule be near dead so we kill them not have anything in special for them or u to eat. we sit upon the box and play odd and even with the cartridge that be jolt out. 
“then ten men with bow and arrow run down that valley chase twenty men with bow and arrow and the row be tremenjus. they be fair men—fairer than you or me—with yellow hair and remarkable well build. say dravot unpack the guns—‘this be the begin of the business. we’ll fight for the ten men ’ and with that he fire two rifle at the twenty men and drop one of them at two hundred yard from the rock where we be sit. the other men begin to run but carnehan and dravot sit on the box pick them off at all range up and down the valley. then we go up to the ten men that have run across the snow too and they fire a footy little arrow at u. dravot he shoot above their head and they all fall down flat. then he walk over them and kick them and then he lift them up and shake hand all around to make them friendly like. he call them and give them the box to carry and wave his hand for all the world a though he be king already. they take the box and him across the valley and up the hill into a pine wood on the top where there be half a dozen big stone idol. dravot he go to the biggest—a fellow they call imbra—and lay a rifle and a cartridge at his foot rub his nose respectful with his own nose pat him on the head and salute in front of it. he turn round to the men and nod his head and say —‘that’s all right. i’m in the know too and these old jim jam be my friend. ’ then he open his mouth and point down it and when the first man bring him food he says—‘no. ’ and when the second man bring him food he says— ‘no. ’ but when one of the old priest and the bos of the village bring him food he says—‘yes. ’ very haughty and eat it slow. that be how we come to our first village without any trouble just a though we have tumble from the sky. but we tumble from one of those damn rope bridge you see and you couldn’t expect a man to laugh much after that. ”. 
“take some more whiskey and go on ” i say. “that be the first village you come into. how do you get to be king. ”. 
“i wasn’t king ” say carnehan. “dravot he be the king and a handsome man he look with the gold crown on his head and all. him and the other party stay in that village and every morning dravot sit by the side of old imbra and the people come and worship. that be dravot’s order. then a lot of men come into the valley and carnehan and dravot pick them off with the rifle before they know where they be and run down into the valley and up again the other side and find another village same a the first one and the people all fall down flat on their face and dravot say — ‘now what be the trouble between you two village. ’ and the people point to a woman a fair a you or me that be carry off and dravot take her back to the first village and count up the dead—eight there be. for each dead man dravot pour a little milk on the grind and wave his arm like a whirligig and ‘that’s all right ’ say he. then he and carnehan take the big bos of each village by the arm and walk them down into the valley and show them how to scratch a line with a spear right down the valley and give each a sod of turf from both side o’ the line. then all the people come down and shout like the devil and all and dravot say —‘go and dig the land and be fruitful and multiply ’ which they do though they didn’t understand. then we ask the name of thing in their lingo—bread and water and fire and idol and such and dravot lead the priest of each village up to the idol and say he must sit there and judge the people and if anything go wrong he be to be shoot. 
“next week they be all turn up the land in the valley a quiet a bee and much pretty and the priest hear all the complaint and tell dravot in dumb show what it be about. ‘that’s just the begin ’ say dravot. ‘they think we’re god. ’ he and carnehan pick out twenty good men and show them how to click off a rifle and form four and advance in line and they be very please to do so and clever to see the hang of it. then he take out his pipe and his baccy pouch and leaf one at one village and one at the other and off we two go to see what be to be do in the next valley. that be all rock and there be a little village there and carnehan say — ‘send ’em to the old valley to plant ’ and take ’em there and give ’em some land that wasn’t take before. they be a poor lot and we blood ’em with a kid before let ’em into the new kingdom. that be to impress the people and then they settle down quiet and carnehan go back to dravot who have get into another valley all snow and ice and most mountainous. there be no people there and the army get afraid so dravot shoot one of them and go on till he find some people in a village and the army explain that unless the people want to be kill they have good not shoot their little matchlock. for they have matchlock. we make friend with the priest and i stay there alone with two of the army teach the men how to drill and a thunder big chief come across the snow with kettledrum and horn twang because he hear there be a new god kick about. carnehan sight for the brown of the men half a mile across the snow and wing one of them. then he send a message to the chief that unless he wish to be kill he must come and shake hand with me and leave his arm behind. the chief come alone first and carnehan shake hand with him and whirl his arm about same a dravot use and very much surprise that chief be and stroke my eyebrow. then carnehan go alone to the chief and ask him in dumb show if he have an enemy he hat. ‘i have ’ say the chief. so carnehan weed out the pick of his men and set the two of the army to show them drill and at the end of two week the men can manœuvre about a well a volunteer. so he march with the chief to a great big plain on the top of a mountain and the chief men rush into a village and take it. we three martini fire into the brown of the enemy. so we take that village too and i give the chief a rag from my coat and say ‘occupy till i come’. which be scriptural. by way of a reminder when me and the army be eighteen hundred yard away i drop a bullet near him stand on the snow and all the people fall flat on their face. then i send a letter to dravot wherever he be by land or by sea. ”. 
at the risk of throw the creature out of train i interrupt —“how could you write a letter up yonder. ”. 
“the letter. —oh. — the letter. keep look at me between the eye please. it be a string talk letter that we’d learn the way of it from a blind beggar in the punjab. ”. 
i remember that there have once come to the office a blind man with a knot twig and a piece of string which he wind round the twig accord to some cypher of his own. he could after the lapse of day or hour repeat the sentence which he have reel up. he have reduce the alphabet to eleven primitive sound. and try to teach me his method but fail. 
“i send that letter to dravot ” say carnehan. “and tell him to come back because this kingdom be grow too big for me to handle and then i strike for the first valley to see how the priest be work. they call the village we take along with the chief bashkai and the first village we take er heb. the priest at er heb be do all right but they have a lot of pending case about land to show me and some men from another village have be fire arrow at night. i go out and look for that village and fire four round at it from a thousand yard. that use all the cartridge i care to spend and i wait for dravot who have be away two or three month and i keep my people quiet. 
“one morning i hear the devil’s own noise of drum and horn and dan dravot march down the hill with his army and a tail of hundred of men and which be the most amazing—a great gold crown on his head. ‘my gord carnehan ’ say daniel ‘this be a tremenjus business and we’ve get the whole country a far a it’s worth have. i be the son of alexander by queen semiramis and you’re my young brother and a god too. it’s the big thing we’ve ever see. i’ve be march and fight for six week with the army and every footy little village for fifty mile ha come in rejoiceful. and more than that i’ve get the key of the whole show a you’ll see and i’ve get a crown for you. i tell ’em to make two of ’em at a place call shu where the gold lie in the rock like suet in mutton. gold i’ve see and turquoise i’ve kick out of the cliff and there’s garnet in the sand of the river and here’s a chunk of amber that a man bring me. call up all the priest and here take your crown. ’. 
“one of the men open a black hair bag and i slip the crown on. it be too small and too heavy but i wear it for the glory. hammer gold it was—five pound weight like a hoop of a barrel. 
“‘peachey ’ say dravot ‘we don’t want to fight no more. the craft’s the trick so help me. ’ and he bring forward that same chief that i leave at bashkai—billy fish we call him afterwards because he be so like billy fish that drive the big tank engine at mach on the bolan in the old day. ‘shake hand with him ’ say dravot and i shake hand and nearly drop for billy fish give me the grip. i say nothing but try him with the fellow craft grip. he answer all right and i try the master’s grip but that be a slip. ‘a fellow craft he be. ’ i say to dan. ‘does he know the word. ’ ‘he doe ’ say dan ‘and all the priest know. it’s a miracle. the chief and the priest can work a fellow craft lodge in a way that’s very like ours and they’ve cut the mark on the rock but they don’t know the third degree and they’ve come to find out. it’s gord’s truth. i’ve know these long year that the afghan know up to the fellow craft degree but this be a miracle. a god and a grand master of the craft be i and a lodge in the third degree i will open and we’ll raise the head priest and the chief of the village. ’. 
“‘it’s against all the law ’ i say ‘holding a lodge without warrant from any one. and we never hold office in any lodge. ’. 
“‘it’s a master stroke of policy ’ say dravot. ‘it mean run the country a easy a a four wheel bogy on a down grade. we can’t stop to inquire now or they’ll turn against u. i’ve forty chief at my heel and pass and raise accord to their merit they shall be. billet these men on the village and see that we run up a lodge of some kind. the temple of imbra will do for the lodge room. the woman must make apron a you show them. i’ll hold a levee of chief tonight and lodge to morrow. ’. 
“i be fair rim off my leg but i wasn’t such a fool a not to see what a pull this craft business give u. i show the priests’ family how to make apron of the degree but for dravot’s apron the blue border and mark be make of turquoise lump on white hide not cloth. we take a great square stone in the temple for the master’s chair and little stone for the officers’ chair and paint the black pavement with white square and do what we could to make thing regular. 
“at the levee which be hold that night on the hillside with big bonfire dravot give out that him and me be god and son of alexander and past grand master in the craft and be come to make kafiristan a country where every man should eat in peace and drink in quiet and specially obey u. then the chief come round to shake hand and they be so hairy and white and fair it be just shake hand with old friend. we give them name accord a they be like men we have know in india—billy fish holly dilworth pikky kergan that be bazar master when i be at mhow and so on and so on. 
“the most amaze miracle be at lodge next night. one of the old priest be watch u continuous and i felt uneasy for i know we’d have to fudge the ritual and i didn’t know what the men know. the old priest be a strange come in from beyond the village of bashkai. the minute dravot put on the master’s apron that the girl have make for him the priest fetch a whoop and a howl and try to overturn the stone that dravot be sit on. ‘it’s all up now ’ i say. ‘that come of meddle with the craft without warrant. ’ dravot never wink an eye not when ten priest take and tilt over the grand master’s chair —which be to say the stone of imbra. the priest begin rub the bottom end of it to clear away the black dirt and presently he show all the other priest the master’s mark same a be on dravot’s apron cut into the stone. not even the priest of the temple of imbra know it be there. the old chap fall flat on his face at dravot’s foot and kiss ’em. ‘luck again ’ say dravot across the lodge to me ‘they say it’s the miss mark that no one could understand the why of. we’re more than safe now. ’ then he bang the butt of his gun for a gavel and say. —‘by virtue of the authority vest in me by my own right hand and the help of peachey i declare myself grand master of all freemasonry in kafiristan in this the mother lodge o’ the country and king of kafiristan equally with peachey. ’ at that he put on his crown and i put on mine—i be do senior warden—and we open the lodge in most ample form. it be a amaze miracle. the priest move in lodge through the first two degree almost without tell a if the memory be come back to them. after that peachey and dravot raise such a be worthy— high priest and chief of far off village. billy fish be the first and i can tell you we scar the soul out of him. it be not in any way accord to ritual but it serve our turn. we didn’t raise more than ten of the big men because we didn’t want to make the degree common. and they be clamor to be raise. 
“‘in another six month ’ say dravot ‘we’ll hold another communication and see how you be work. ’ then he ask them about their village and learn that they be fight one against the other and be fair sick and tire of it. and when they wasn’t do that they be fight with the mohammedan. ‘you can fight those when they come into our country ’ say dravot. ‘tell off every tenth man of your tribe for a frontier guard and send two hundred at a time to this valley to be drill. nobody be go to be shoot or spear any more so long a he doe well and i know that you won’t cheat me because you’re white people—sons of alexander—and not like common black mohammedan. you be my people and by god ’ say he run off into english at the end—‘i’ll make a damn fine nation of you or i’ll die in the make. ’. 
“i can’t tell all we do for the next six month because dravot do a lot i couldn’t see the hang of and he learn their lingo in a way i never could. my work be to help the people plough and now and again to go out with some of the army and see what the other village be do and make ’em throw rope bridge across the ravine which cut up the country horrid. dravot be very kind to me but when he walk up and down in the pine wood pull that bloody red beard of his with both fist i know he be think plan i could not advise him about and i just wait for order. 
“but dravot never show me disrespect before the people. they be afraid of me and the army but they love dan. he be the best of friend with the priest and the chief. but any one could come across the hill with a complaint and dravot would hear him out fair and call four priest together and say what be to be do. he use to call in billy fish from bashkai and pikky kergan from shu and an old chief we call kafuzelum—it be like enough to his real name—and hold council with ’em when there be any fight to be do in small village. that be his council of war and the four priest of bashkai shu khawak and madora be his privy council. between the lot of ’em they send me with forty men and twenty rifle and sixty men carry turquoise into the ghorband country to buy those hand make martini rifle that come out of the amir’s workshop at kabul from one of the amir’s herati regiment that would have sell the very teeth out of their mouth for turquoise. 
“i stay in ghorband a month and give the governor the pick of my basket for hush money and bribe the colonel of the regiment some more and between the two and the tribe people we get more than a hundred hand make martini a hundred good kohat jezails that’ll throw to six hundred yard and forty manloads of very bad ammunition for the rifle. i come back with what i have and distribute ’em among the men that the chief send in to me to drill. dravot be too busy to attend to those thing but the old army that we first make help me and we turn out five hundred men that could drill and two hundred that know how to hold arm pretty straight. even those cork screw hand make gun be a miracle to them. dravot talk big about powder shop and factory walk up and down in the pine wood when the winter be come on. 
“‘i won’t make a nation ’ say he. ‘i’ll make an empire. these men aren’t nigger. they’re english. look at their eyes— look at their mouth. look at the way they stand up. they sit on chair in their own house. they’re the lose tribe or something like it and they’ve grow to be english. i’ll take a census in the spring if the priest don’t get frighten. there must be a fair two million of ’em in these hill. the village be full o’ little child. two million people—two hundred and fifty thousand fight men—and all english. they only want the rifle and a little drill. two hundred and fifty thousand men ready to cut in on russia’s right flank when she try for india. peachey man ’ he say chew his beard in great hunk ‘we shall be emperor —emperors of the earth. rajah brooke will be a suckle to u. i’ll treat with the viceroy on equal term. i’ll ask him to send me twelve pick english— twelve that i know of—to help u govern a bite. there’s mackray sergeant pensioner at segowli—many’s the good dinner he’s give me and his wife a pair of trouser. there’s donkin the warder of tounghoo jail. there’s hundred that i could lay my hand on if i be in india. the viceroy shall do it for me. i’ll send a man through in the spring for those men and i’ll write for a dispensation from the grand lodge for what i’ve do a grand master. that—and all the sniders that’ll be throw out when the native troop in india take up the martini. they’ll be wear smooth but they’ll do for fight in these hill. twelve english a hundred thousand sniders run through the amir’s country in driblets—i’d be content with twenty thousand in one year—and we’d be an empire. when everything be ship shape i’d hand over the crown—this crown i’m wear now—to queen victoria on my knee and she’d say. —“rise up sir daniel dravot. ” oh it big. it’s big i tell you. but there’s so much to be do in every place—bashkai khawak shu and everywhere else. ’. 
“‘what be it. ’ i say. ‘there be no more men come in to be drill this autumn. look at those fat black cloud. they’re bring the snow. ’. 
“‘it isn’t that ’ say daniel put his hand very hard on my shoulder. ‘and i don’t wish to say anything that’s against you for no other live man would have follow me and make me what i be a you have do. you’re a first class commander in chief and the people know you. but—it’s a big country and somehow you can’t help me peachey in the way i want to be help. ’. 
“‘go to your blast priest then. ’ i say and i be sorry when i make that remark but it do hurt me sore to find daniel talk so superior when i’d drill all the men and do all he tell me. 
“‘don’t let’s quarrel peachey ’ say daniel without curse. ‘you’re a king too and the half of this kingdom be yours. but can’t you see peachey we want clever men than u now—three or four of ‘em that we can scatter about for our deputy. it’s a hugeous great state and i can’t always tell the right thing to do and i haven’t time for all i want to do and here’s the winter come on and all. ’ he put half his beard into his mouth and it be a red a the gold of his crown. 
“‘i’m sorry daniel ’ say i. ‘i’ve do all i could. i’ve drill the men and show the people how to stack their oat good and i’ve bring in those tinware rifle from ghorband—but i know what you’re drive at. i take it king always feel oppress that way. ’. 
“‘there’s another thing too ’ say dravot walk up and down. ‘the winter’s come and these people won’t be give much trouble and if they do we can’t move about. i want a wife. ’. 
“‘for gord’s sake leave the woman alone. ’ i say. ‘we’ve both get all the work we can though i be a fool. remember the contrack and keep clear o’ woman. ’. 
“‘the contrack only last till such time a we be king. and king we have be these month past ’ say dravot weigh his crown in his hand. ‘you go get a wife too peachey—a nice strappin’ plump girl that’ll keep you warm in the winter. they’re pretty than english girl and we can take the pick of ’em. boil ’em once or twice in hot water and they’ll come a fair a chicken and ham. ’. 
“‘don’t tempt me. ’ i say. ‘i will not have any dealing with a woman not till we be a dam’ side more settle than we be now. i’ve be do the work o’ two men and you’ve be do the work o’ three. let’s lie off a bite and see if we can get some good tobacco from afghan country and run in some good liquor. but no woman. ’. 
“‘who’s talk o’ woman. ’ say dravot. ‘i say wife—a queen to breed a king’s son for the king. a queen out of the strong tribe that’ll make them your blood brother and that’ll lie by your side and tell you all the people think about you and their own affair. that’s what i want. ’. 
“‘do you remember that bengali woman i keep at mogul serai when i be plate layer. ’ say i. ‘a fat lot o’ good she be to me. she teach me the lingo and one or two other thing. but what happen. she run away with the station master’s servant and half my month’s pay. then she turn up at dadur junction in tow of a half caste and have the impidence to say i be her husband —all among the driver of the run shed. ’. 
“‘we’ve do with that ’ say dravot. ‘these woman be white than you or me and a queen i will have for the winter month. ’. 
“‘for the last time o’ ask dan do not ’ i say. ‘it’ll only bring u harm. the bible say that king ain’t to waste their strength on woman ’specially when they’ve get a new raw kingdom to work over. ’. 
“‘for the last time of answer i will ’ say dravot and he go away through the pine tree look like a big red devil. the low sun hit his crown and beard on one side and the two blaze like hot coal. 
“but get a wife be not a easy a dan think. he put it before the council and there be no answer till billy fish say that he’d good ask the girl. dravot damn them all round. ‘what’s wrong with me. ’ he shout stand by the idol imbra. ‘am i a dog or be i not enough of a man for your wench. haven’t i put the shadow of my hand over this country. who stop the last afghan raid. ’ it be me really but dravot be too angry to remember. ‘who buy your gun. who repair the bridge. who’s the grand master of the sign cut in the stone. ’ and he thump his hand on the block that he use to sit on in lodge and at council which open like lodge always. billy fish say nothing and no more do the others. ‘keep your hair on dan ’ say i. ‘and ask the girl. that’s how it’s do at home and these people be quite english. ’. 
“‘the marriage of a king be a matter of state ’ say dan in a white hot rage for he could feel i hope that he be go against his good mind. he walk out of the council room and the others sit still look at the grind. 
“‘billy fish ’ say i to the chief of bashkai ‘what’s the difficulty here. a straight answer to a true friend. ’ ‘you know ’ say billy fish. ‘how should a man tell you who know everything. how can daughter of men marry god or devil. it’s not proper. ’. 
“i remember something like that in the bible. but if after see u a long a they have they still believe we be god it wasn’t for me to undeceive them. 
“‘a god can do anything ’ say i. ‘if the king be fond of a girl he’ll not let her die. ’ ‘she’ll have to ’ say billy fish. ‘there be all sort of god and devil in these mountain and now and again a girl marry one of them and isn’t see any more. besides you two know the mark cut in the stone. only the god know that. we think you be men till you show the sign of the master. ’. 
“‘i wish then that we have explain about the loss of the genuine secret of a master mason at the first go off. but i say nothing. all that night there be a blow of horn in a little dark temple half way down the hill and i hear a girl cry fit to die. one of the priest tell u that she be be prepare to marry the king. 
“‘i’ll have no nonsense of that kind ’ say dan. ‘i don’t want to interfere with your custom but i’ll take my own wife. ‘the girl’s a little bite afraid ’ say the priest. ‘she think she’s go to die and they be a hearten of her up down in the temple. ’. 
“‘hearten her very tender then ’ say dravot ‘or i’ll hearten you with the butt of a gun so that you’ll never want to be hearten again. ’ he lick his lip do dan and stay up walk about more than half the night think of the wife that he be go to get in the morning. i wasn’t any mean comfortable for i know that dealing with a woman in foreign part though you be a crown king twenty time over could not but be risky. i get up very early in the morning while dravot be asleep and i saw the priest talk together in whisper and the chief talk together too and they look at me out of the corner of their eye. 
“‘what be up fish. ’ i say to the bashkai man who be wrap up in his fur and look splendid to behold. 
“‘i can’t rightly say ’ say he. ‘but if you can induce the king to drop all this nonsense about marriage you’ll be do him and me and yourself a great service. ’. 
“‘that i do believe ’ say i. ‘but sure you know billy a well a me have fight against and for u that the king and me be nothing more than two of the fine men that god almighty ever make. nothing more i do assure you. ’. 
“‘that may be ’ say billy fish ‘and yet i should be sorry if it be. ’ he sink his head upon his great fur cloak for a minute and think. ‘king ’ say he ‘be you man or god or devil i’ll stick by you to day. i have twenty of my men with me and they will follow me. we’ll go to bashkai until the storm blow over. ’. 
“a little snow have fall in the night and everything be white except the greasy fat cloud that blow down and down from the north. dravot come out with his crown on his head swing his arm and stamp his foot and look more please than punch. 
“‘for the last time drop it dan ’ say i in a whisper. ‘billy fish here say that there will be a row. ’. 
“‘a row among my people. ’ say dravot. ‘not much. peachy you’re a fool not to get a wife too. where’s the girl. ’ say he with a voice a loud a the bray of a jackass. ‘call up all the chief and priest and let the emperor see if his wife suit him. ’. 
“there be no need to call any one. they be all there lean on their gun and spear round the clear in the centre of the pine wood. a deputation of priest go down to the little temple to bring up the girl and the horn blow up fit to wake the dead. billy fish saunter round and get a close to daniel a he could and behind him stand his twenty men with matchlock. not a man of them under six foot. i be next to dravot and behind me be twenty men of the regular army. up come the girl and a strap wench she be cover with silver and turquoise but white a death and look back every minute at the priest. 
“‘she’ll do ’ say dan look her over. ‘what’s to be afraid of lass. come and kiss me. ’ he put his arm round her. she shut her eye give a bite of a squeak and down go her face in the side of dan’s flame red beard. 
“‘the slut’s bite me. ’ say he clap his hand to his neck and sure enough his hand be red with blood. billy fish and two of his matchlock men catch hold of dan by the shoulder and drag him into the bashkai lot while the priest howl in their lingo —‘neither god nor devil but a man. ’ i be all take aback for a priest cut at me in front and the army behind begin fire into the bashkai men. 
“‘god a mighty. ’ say dan. ‘what be the mean o’ this. ’. 
“‘come back. come away. ’ say billy fish. ‘ruin and mutiny be the matter. we’ll break for bashkai if we can. ’. 
“i try to give some sort of order to my men—the men o’ the regular army—but it be no use so i fire into the brown of ’em with an english martini and drill three beggar in a line. the valley be full of shout howl creature and every soul be shriek ‘not a god nor a devil but only a man. ’ the bashkai troop stick to billy fish all they be worth but their matchlock wasn’t half a good a the kabul breech loader and four of them drop. dan be bellow like a bull for he be very wrathy. and billy fish have a hard job to prevent him run out at the crowd. 
“‘we can’t stand ’ say billy fish. ‘make a run for it down the valley. the whole place be against u. ’ the matchlock men run and we go down the valley in spite of dravot’s protestation. he be swear horribly and cry out that he be a king. the priest roll great stone on u and the regular army fire hard and there wasn’t more than six men not count dan billy fish and me that come down to the bottom of the valley alive. 
“‘then they stop fire and the horn in the temple blow again. ‘come away— for gord’s sake come away. ’ say billy fish. ‘they’ll send runner out to all the village before ever we get to bashkai. i can protect you there but i can’t do anything now. ’. 
“my own notion be that dan begin to go mad in his head from that hour. he star up and down like a stick pig. then he be all for walk back alone and kill the priest with his bare hand. which he could have do. ‘an emperor be i ’ say daniel ‘and next year i shall be a knight of the queen. 
“‘all right dan ’ say i. ‘but come along now while there’s time. ’. 
“‘it’s your fault ’ say he ‘for not look after your army good. there be mutiny in the midst and you didn’t know —you damn engine drive plate lay missionary’s pas hunt hound. ’ he sit upon a rock and call me every foul name he could lay tongue to. i be too heart sick to care though it be all his foolishness that bring the smash. 
“‘i’m sorry dan ’ say i ‘but there’s no account for native. this business be our fifty seven. maybe we’ll make something out of it yet when we’ve get to bashkai. ’. 
“‘let’s get to bashkai then ’ say dan ‘and by god when i come back here again i’ll sweep the valley so there isn’t a bug in a blanket leave. ’. 
“‘we walk all that day and all that night dan be stump up and down on the snow chew his beard and mutter to himself. 
“‘there’s no hope o’ get clear ’ say billy fish. ‘the priest will have send runner to the village to say that you be only men. why didn’t you stick on a god till thing be more settle. i’m a dead man ’ say billy fish and he throw himself down on the snow and begin to pray to his god. 
“next morning we be in a cruel bad country—all up and down no level grind at all and no food either. the six bashkai men look at billy fish hungry wise a if they want to ask something but they say never a word. at noon we come to the top of a flat mountain all cover with snow and when we climb up into it behold there be an army in position wait in the middle. 
“‘the runner have be very quick ’ say billy fish with a little bite of a laugh. ‘they be wait for u. ’. 
“three or four men begin to fire from the enemy’s side and a chance shoot take daniel in the calf of the leg. that bring him to his sens. he look across the snow at the army and see the rifle that we have bring into the country. 
“‘we’re do for ’ say he. ‘they be englishman these people —and it’s my blast nonsense that ha bring you to this. get back billy fish and take your men away. you’ve do what you could and now cut for it. carnehan ’ say he ‘shake hand with me and go along with billy. maybe they won’t kill you. i’ll go and meet ’em alone. it’s me that do it. me the king. ’. 
“‘go. ’ say i. ‘go to hell dan. i’m with you here. billy fish you clear out and we two will meet those folk. ’. 
“‘i’m a chief ’ say billy fish quite quiet. ‘i stay with you. my men can go. ’. 
“the bashkai fellow didn’t wait for a second word but run off and dan and me and billy fish walk across to where the drum be drum and the horn be horn. it be cold awful cold. i’ve get that cold in the back of my head now. there’s a lump of it there. ”. 
the punkah cooly have go to sleep. two kerosene lamp be blaze in the office and the perspiration pour down my face and splash on the blotter a i lean forward. carnehan be shiver and i fear that his mind might go. i wipe my face take a fresh grip of the piteously mangle hand and say. —“what happen after that. ”. 
the momentary shift of my eye have break the clear current. 
“what be you please to say. ” whine carnehan. “they take them without any sound. not a little whisper all along the snow not though the king knock down the first man that set hand on him—not though old peachey fire his last cartridge into the brown of ’em. not a single solitary sound do those swine make. they just close up tight and i tell you their fur stink. there be a man call billy fish a good friend of u all and they cut his throat sir then and there like a pig. and the king kick up the bloody snow and say. —‘we’ve have a dash fine run for our money. what’s come next. ’ but peachey peachey taliaferro i tell you sir in confidence a betwixt two friend he lose his head sir. no he didn’t neither. the king lose his head so he do all along o’ one of those cunning rope bridge. kindly let me have the paper cutter sir. it tilt this way. they march him a mile across that snow to a rope bridge over a ravine with a river at the bottom. you may have see such. they prod him behind like an ox. ‘damn your eye. ’ say the king. ‘d’you suppose i can’t die like a gentleman. ’ he turn to peachey—peachey that be cry like a child. ‘i’ve bring you to this peachey ’ say he. ‘brought you out of your happy life to be kill in kafiristan where you be late commander in chief of the emperor’s force. say you forgive me peachey. ’ ‘i do ’ say peachey. ‘fully and freely do i forgive you dan. ’ ‘shake hand peachey ’ say he. ‘i’m go now. ’ out he go look neither right nor leave and when he be plumb in the middle of those dizzy dance rope ‘cut you beggar ’ he shout. and they cut and old dan fell turn round and round and round twenty thousand mile for he take half an hour to fall till he strike the water and i could see his body catch on a rock with the gold crown close beside. 
“but do you know what they do to peachey between two pine tree. they crucify him sir a peachey’s hand will show. they use wooden peg for his hand and his foot. and he didn’t die. he hang there and scream and they take him down next day and say it be a miracle that he wasn’t dead. they take him down —poor old peachey that hadn’t do them any harm—that hadn’t do them any…”. 
he rock to and fro and weep bitterly wipe his eye with the back of his scar hand and moan like a child for some ten minute. 
“they be cruel enough to fee him up in the temple because they say he be more of a god than old daniel that be a man. then they turn him out on the snow and tell him to go home and peachey come home in about a year beg along the road quite safe. for daniel dravot he walk before and say. —‘come along peachey. it’s a big thing we’re do. ’ the mountain they dance at night and the mountain they try to fall on peachey’s head but dan he hold up his hand and peachey come along bend double. he never let go of dan’s hand and he never let go of dan’s head. they give it to him a a present in the temple to remind him not to come again and though the crown be pure gold and peachey be starve never would peachey sell the same. you know dravot sir. you know right worshipful brother dravot. look at him now. ”. 
he fumble in the mass of rag round his bend waist. bring out a black horsehair bag embroider with silver thread. and shake therefrom on to my table—the dry wither head of daniel dravot. the morning sun that have long be pal the lamp strike the red beard and blind sink eye. strike too a heavy circlet of gold stud with raw turquoise that carnehan place tenderly on the batter temple. 
“you behold now ” say carnehan “the emperor in his habit a he lived—the king of kafiristan with his crown upon his head. poor old daniel that be a monarch once. ”. 
i shudder for in spite of defacement manifold i recognize the head of the man of marwar junction. carnehan rise to go. i attempt to stop him. he be not fit to walk abroad. “let me take away the whiskey and give me a little money ” he gasp. “i be a king once. i’ll go to the deputy commissioner and ask to set in the poor house till i get my health. no thank you i can’t wait till you get a carriage for me. i’ve urgent private affairs—in the south—at marwar. ”. 
he shamble out of the office and depart in the direction of the deputy commissioner’s house. that day at noon i have occasion to go down the blind hot mall and i saw a crook man crawl along the white dust of the roadside his hat in his hand quaver dolorously after the fashion of street singer at home. there be not a soul in sight and he be out of all possible earshot of the house. and he sing through his nose turn his head from right to leave. —. 
“the son of man go forth to war a golden crown to gain. his blood red banner stream afar— who follow in his train. ”. 
i wait to hear no more but put the poor wretch into my carriage and drive him off to the near missionary for eventual transfer to the asylum. he repeat the hymn twice while he be with me whom he do not in the least recognize and i leave him sing to the missionary. 
two day late i inquire after his welfare of the superintendent of the asylum. 
“he be admit suffer from sun stroke. he die early yesterday morning ” say the superintendent. “is it true that he be half an hour bareheaded in the sun at midday. ”. 
“yes ” say i “but do you happen to know if he have anything upon him by any chance when he die. ”. 
“not to my knowledge ” say the superintendent. 
and there the matter rest. 
