kim. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
chapter. 
o ye who tread the narrow way by tophet flare to judgment day be gentle when the heathen pray to buddha at kamakura. 
buddha at kamakura. 
he sit in defiance of municipal order astride the gun zam zammah on her brick platform opposite the old ajaib gher the wonder house a the native call the lahore museum. who hold zam zammah that fire breathe dragon hold the punjab for the great green bronze piece be always first of the conqueror s loot. 
there be some justification for kim he have kick lala dinanath s boy off the trunnions since the english hold the punjab and kim be english. though he be burn black a any native. though he speak the vernacular by preference and his mother tongue in a clip uncertain sing song. though he consort on term of perfect equality with the small boy of the bazar. kim be white a poor white of the very poor. the half caste woman who look after him. she smoke opium and pretend to keep a second hand furniture shop by the square where the cheap cab wait. tell the missionary that she be kim s mother s sister. but his mother have be nursemaid in a colonel s family and have marry kimball o hara a young colour sergeant of the maverick an irish regiment. he afterwards take a post on the sind punjab and delhi railway and his regiment go home without him. the wife die of cholera in ferozepore and o hara fell to drink and loaf up and down the line with the keen eye three year old baby. society and chaplain anxious for the child try to catch him but o hara drift away till he come across the woman who take opium and learn the taste from her and die a poor white die in india. his estate at death consist of three paper one he call his ne varietur because those word be write below his signature thereon and another his clearance certificate. the third be kim s birth certificate. those thing he be use to say in his glorious opium hour would yet make little kimball a man. on no account be kim to part with them for they belong to a great piece of magic such magic a men practise over yonder behind the museum in the big blue and white jadoo gher the magic house a we name the masonic lodge. it would he say all come right some day and kim s horn would be exalt between pillar monstrous pillar of beauty and strength. the colonel himself rid on a horse at the head of the fine regiment in the world would attend to kim little kim that should have be good off than his father. nine hundred first class devil whose god be a red bull on a green field would attend to kim if they have not forget o hara poor o hara that be gang foreman on the ferozepore line. then he would weep bitterly in the break rush chair on the veranda. so it come about after his death that the woman sew parchment paper and birth certificate into a leather amulet case which she string round kim s neck. 
and some day she say confusedly remember o hara s prophecy there will come for you a great red bull on a green field and the colonel rid on his tall horse yes and drop into english nine hundred devil. 
ah say kim i shall remember. a red bull and a colonel on a horse will come but first my father say will come the two men make ready the grind for these matter. that be how my father say they always do. and it be always so when men work magic. 
if the woman have send kim up to the local jadoo gher with those paper he would of course have be take over by the provincial lodge and send to the masonic orphanage in the hill. but what she have hear of magic she distrust. kim too hold view of his own. a he reach the year of indiscretion he learn to avoid missionary and white men of serious aspect who ask who he be and what he do. for kim do nothing with an immense success. true he know the wonderful wall city of lahore from the delhi gate to the out fort ditch. be hand in glove with men who lead life strange than anything haroun al raschid dream of. and he live in a life wild a that of the arabian night but missionary and secretary of charitable society could not see the beauty of it. his nickname through the ward be little friend of all the world. and very often be lithe and inconspicuous he execute commission by night on the crowd housetop for sleek and shiny young men of fashion. it be intrigue of course he know that much a he have know all evil since he could speak but what he love be the game for it own sake the stealthy prowl through the dark gully and lane the crawl up a waterpipe the sight and sound of the woman s world on the flat roof and the headlong flight from housetop to housetop under cover of the hot dark. then there be holy men ash smear fakir by their brick shrine under the tree at the riverside with whom he be quite familiar greet them a they return from beg tour and when no one be by eat from the same dish. the woman who look after him insist with tear that he should wear european clothe trouser a shirt and a batter hat. kim find it easy to slip into hindu or mohammedan garb when engage on certain business. one of the young men of fashion he who be find dead at the bottom of a well on the night of the earthquake have once give him a complete suit of hindu kit the costume of a lowcaste street boy and kim store it in a secret place under some baulk in nila ram s timber yard beyond the punjab high court where the fragrant deodar log lie season after they have drive down the ravi. when there be business or frolic afoot kim would use his property return at dawn to the veranda all tire out from shout at the heel of a marriage procession or yell at a hindu festival. sometimes there be food in the house more often there be not and then kim go out again to eat with his native friend. 
a he drum his heel against zam zammah he turn now and again from his king of the castle game with little chota lal and abdullah the sweetmeat seller s son to make a rude remark to the native policeman on guard over row of shoe at the museum door. the big punjabi grin tolerantly. he know kim of old. so do the water carrier sluice water on the dry road from his goat skin bag. so do jawahir singh the museum carpenter bend over new pack case. so do everybody in sight except the peasant from the country hurry up to the wonder house to view the thing that men make in their own province and elsewhere. the museum be give up to indian art and manufacture and anybody who seek wisdom could ask the curator to explain. 
off. off. let me up. cry abdullah climb up zam zammah s wheel. 
thy father be a pastry cook thy mother steal the ghi sing kim. all mussalmans fell off zam zammah long ago. 
let me up. shrill little chota lal in his gild embroider cap. his father be worth perhaps half a million sterling but india be the only democratic land in the world. 
the hindu fell off zam zammah too. the mussalmans push them off. thy father be a pastry cook. 
he stop. for there shuffle round the corner from the roar motee bazar such a man a kim who think he know all caste have never see. he be nearly six foot high dress in fold upon fold of dingy stuff like horse blanket and not one fold of it could kim refer to any know trade or profession. at his belt hang a long open work iron pencase and a wooden rosary such a holy men wear. on his head be a gigantic sort of tam o shanter. his face be yellow and wrinkle like that of fook shing the chinese bootmaker in the bazar. his eye turn up at the corner and look like little slit of onyx. 
who be that. say kim to his companion. 
perhaps it be a man say abdullah finger in mouth star. 
without doubt return kim. but he be no man of india that i have ever see. 
a priest perhaps say chota lal spy the rosary. see. he go into the wonder house. 
nay nay say the policeman shake his head. i do not understand your talk. the constable speak punjabi. o friend of all the world what doe he say. 
send him hither say kim drop from zam zammah flourish his bare heel. he be a foreigner and thou art a buffalo. 
the man turn helplessly and drift towards the boy. he be old and his woollen gaberdine still reek of the stink artemisia of the mountain pass. 
o child what be that big house. he say in very fair urdu. 
the ajaib gher the wonder house. kim give him no title such a lala or mian. he could not divine the man s creed. 
ah. the wonder house. can any enter. 
it be write above the door all can enter. 
without payment. 
i go in and out. i be no banker laugh kim. 
ala. i be an old man. i do not know. then finger his rosary he half turn to the museum. 
what be your caste. where be your house. have you come far. kim ask. 
i come by kulu from beyond the kailas but what know you. from the hill where he sigh the air and water be fresh and cool. 
aha. khitai [a chinaman] say abdullah proudly. fook shing have once chase him out of his shop for spit at the joss above the boot. 
pahari [a hillman] say little chota lal. 
aye child a hillman from hill thou lt never see. didst hear of bhotiyal [tibet]. i be no khitai but a bhotiya [tibetan] since you must know a lama or say a guru in your tongue. 
a guru from tibet say kim. i have not see such a man. they be hindu in tibet then. 
we be follower of the middle way live in peace in our lamasseries and i go to see the four holy place before i die. now do you who be child know a much a i do who be old. he smile benignantly on the boy. 
hast thou eat. 
he fumble in his bosom and draw forth a wear wooden beg bowl. the boy nod. all priest of their acquaintance beg. 
i do not wish to eat yet. he turn his head like an old tortoise in the sunlight. be it true that there be many image in the wonder house of lahore. he repeat the last word a one make sure of an address. 
that be true say abdullah. it be full of heathen bust. thou also art an idolater. 
never mind him say. kim. that be the government s house and there be no idolatry in it but only a sahib with a white beard. come with me and i will show. 
strange priest eat boy whisper chota lal. 
and he be a strange and a but parast [idolater] say abdullah the mohammedan. 
kim laugh. he be new. run to your mother lap and be safe. come. 
kim click round the self register turnstile. the old man follow and halt amaze. in the entrance hall stand the large figure of the greco buddhist sculpture do savant know how long since by forget workman whose hand be feel and not unskilfully for the mysteriously transmit grecian touch. there be hundred of piece frieze of figure in relief fragment of statue and slab crowd with figure that have encrust the brick wall of the buddhist stupa and viharas of the north country and now dig up and label make the pride of the museum. in open mouth wonder the lama turn to this and that and finally check in rapt attention before a large alto relief represent a coronation or apotheosis of the lord buddha. the master be represent seat on a lotus the petal of which be so deeply undercut a to show almost detach. round him be an adore hierarchy of king elder and old time buddha. below be lotus cover water with fish and water bird. two butterfly wing devas hold a wreath over his head. above them another pair support an umbrella surmount by the jewel headdress of the bodhisat. 
the lord. the lord. it be sakya muni himself the lama half sob. and under his breath begin the wonderful buddhist invocation. 
to him the way the law apart whom maya hold beneath her heart ananda s lord the bodhisat. 
and he be here. the most excellent law be here also. my pilgrimage be well begin. and what work. what work. 
yonder be the sahib. say kim and dodge sideways among the case of the art and manufacturer wing. a white beard englishman be look at the lama who gravely turn and salute him and after some fumble draw forth a note book and a scrap of paper. 
yes that be my name smile at the clumsy childish print. 
one of u who have make pilgrimage to the holy place he be now abbot of the lung cho monastery give it me stammer the lama. he speak of these. his lean hand move tremulously round. 
welcome then o lama from tibet. here be the image and i be here he glance at the lama s face to gather knowledge. come to my office awhile. the old man be tremble with excitement. 
the office be but a little wooden cubicle partition off from the sculpture line gallery. kim lay himself down his ear against a crack in the heat split cedar door and follow his instinct stretch out to listen and watch. 
most of the talk be altogether above his head. the lama haltingly at first speak to the curator of his own lamassery the such zen opposite the paint rock four month march away. the curator bring out a huge book of photo and show him that very place perch on it crag overlook the gigantic valley of many hue stratum. 
ay ay. the lama mount a pair of horn rim spectacle of chinese work. here be the little door through which we bring wood before winter. and thou the english know of these thing. he who be now abbot of lung cho tell me but i do not believe. the lord the excellent one he ha honour here too. and his life be know. 
it be all carven upon the stone. come and see if thou art rest. 
out shuffle the lama to the main hall and the curator beside him go through the collection with the reverence of a devotee and the appreciative instinct of a craftsman. 
incident by incident in the beautiful story he identify on the blur stone puzzle here and there by the unfamiliar greek convention but delight a a child at each new trove. where the sequence fail a in the annunciation the curator supply it from his mound of book french and german with photograph and reproduction. 
here be the devout asita the pendant of simeon in the christian story hold the holy child on his knee while mother and father listen. and here be incident in the legend of the cousin devadatta. here be the wicked woman who accuse the master of impurity all confound. here be the teach in the deer park. the miracle that stun the fire worshipper. here be the bodhisat in royal state a a prince. the miraculous birth. the death at kusinagara where the weak disciple faint. while there be almost countless repetition of the meditation under the bodhi tree. and the adoration of the alms bowl be everywhere. in a few minute the curator saw that his guest be no mere bead tell mendicant but a scholar of part. and they go at it all over again the lama take snuff wipe his spectacle and talk at railway speed in a bewilder mixture of urdu and tibetan. he have hear of the travel of the chinese pilgrim fu hiouen and hwen tsiang and be anxious to know if there be any translation of their record. he draw in his breath a he turn helplessly over the page of beal and stanislas julien. ti all here. a treasure lock. then he compose himself reverently to listen to fragment hastily render into urdu. for the first time he hear of the labour of european scholar who by the help of these and a hundred other document have identify the holy place of buddhism. then he be show a mighty map spot and trace with yellow. the brown finger follow the curator s pencil from point to point. here be kapilavastu here the middle kingdom and here mahabodhi the mecca of buddhism. and here be kusinagara sad place of the holy one s death. the old man bow his head over the sheet in silence for a while and the curator light another pipe. kim have fall asleep. when he wake the talk still in spate be more within his comprehension. 
and thus it be o fountain of wisdom that i decide to go to the holy place which his foot have tread to the birthplace even to kapila. then to mahabodhi which be buddh gaya to the monastery to the deer park to the place of his death. 
the lama lower his voice. and i come here alone. for five seven eighteen forty year it be in my mind that the old law be not well follow. be overlay a thou knowest with devildom charm and idolatry. even a the child outside say but now. ay even a the child say with but parasti. 
so it come with all faith. 
thinkest thou. the book of my lamassery i read and they be dry pith. and the late ritual with which we of the reform law have cumber ourselves that too have no worth to these old eye. even the follower of the excellent one be at feud on feud with one another. it be all illusion. ay maya illusion. but i have another desire the seam yellow face draw within three inch of the curator and the long forefinger nail tap on the table. your scholar by these book have follow the bless foot in all their wandering. but there be thing which they have not seek out. i know nothing nothing do i know but i go to free myself from the wheel of thing by a broad and open road. he smile with most simple triumph. a a pilgrim to the holy place i acquire merit. but there be more. listen to a true thing. when our gracious lord be a yet a youth seek a mate men say in his father s court that he be too tender for marriage. thou knowest. 
the curator nod wonder what would come next. 
so they make the triple trial of strength against all comer. and at the test of the bow our lord first break that which they give him call for such a bow a none might bend. thou knowest. 
it be write. i have read. 
and overshoot all other mark the arrow pass far and far beyond sight. at the last it fell. and where it touch earth there break out a stream which presently become a river whose nature by our lord s beneficence and that merit he acquire ere he free himself be that whoso bathe in it wash away all taint and speckle of sin. 
so it be write say the curator sadly. 
the lama draw a long breath. where be that river. fountain of wisdom where fell the arrow. 
ala my brother i do not know say the curator. 
nay if it please thee to forget the one thing only that thou hast not tell me. surely thou must know. see i be an old man. i ask with my head between thy foot o fountain of wisdom. we know he draw the bow. we know the arrow fell. we know the stream gush. where then be the river. my dream tell me to find it. so i come. i be here. but where be the river. 
if i know think you i would not cry it aloud. 
by it one attain freedom from the wheel of thing the lama go on unheeding. the river of the arrow. think again. some little stream maybe dry in the heat. but the holy one would never so cheat an old man. 
i do not know. i do not know. 
the lama bring his thousand wrinkle face once more a handsbreadth from the englishman s. i see thou dost not know. not be of the law the matter be hide from thee. 
ay hide hide. 
we be both bind thou and i my brother. but i he rise with a sweep of the soft thick drapery i go to cut myself free. come also. 
i be bind say the curator. but whither go thou. 
first to kashi [benares]. where else. there i shall meet one of the pure faith in a jain temple of that city. he also be a seeker in secret and from him haply i may learn. maybe he will go with me to buddh gaya. thence north and west to kapilavastu and there will i seek for the river. nay i will seek everywhere a i go for the place be not know where the arrow fell. 
and how wilt thou go. it be a far cry to delhi and farther to benares. 
by road and the train. from pathankot have leave the hill i come hither in a te rain. it go swiftly. at first i be amaze to see those tall pole by the side of the road snatch up and snatch up their thread he illustrate the stoop and whirl of a telegraph pole flash past the train. but late i be cramp and desire to walk a i be use. 
and thou art sure of thy road. say the curator. 
oh for that one but ask a question and pay money and the appoint person despatch all to the appoint place. that much i know in my lamassery from sure report say the lama proudly. 
and when dost thou go. the curator smile at the mixture of old world piety and modern progress that be the note of india today. 
a soon a may be. i follow the place of his life till i come to the river of the arrow. there be moreover a write paper of the hour of the train that go south. 
and for food. lama a a rule have good store of money somewhere about them but the curator wish to make sure. 
for the journey i take up the master s beg bowl. yes. even a he go so go i forsake the ease of my monastery. there be with me when i leave the hill a chela [disciple] who beg for me a the rule demand but halt in kulu awhile a fever take him and he die. i have now no chela but i will take the alms bowl and thus enable the charitable to acquire merit. he nod his head valiantly. learn doctor of a lamassery do not beg but the lama be an enthusiast in this quest. 
be it so say the curator smile. suffer me now to acquire merit. we be craftsman together thou and i. here be a new book of white english paper. here be sharpen pencil two and three thick and thin all good for a scribe. now lend me thy spectacle. 
the curator look through them. they be heavily scratch but the power be almost exactly that of his own pair which he slide into the lama s hand say. try these. 
a feather. a very feather upon the face. the old man turn his head delightedly and wrinkle up his nose. how scarcely do i feel them. how clearly do i see. 
they be bilaur crystal and will never scratch. may they help thee to thy river for they be thine. 
i will take them and the pencil and the white note book say the lama a a sign of friendship between priest and priest and now he fumble at his belt detach the open work iron pincer and lay it on the curator s table. that be for a memory between thee and me my pencase. it be something old even a i be. 
it be a piece of ancient design chinese of an iron that be not smelt these day. and the collector s heart in the curator s bosom have go out to it from the first. for no persuasion would the lama resume his gift. 
when i return have find the river i will bring thee a write picture of the padma samthora such a i use to make on silk at the lamassery. yes and of the wheel of life he chuckle for we be craftsman together thou and i. 
the curator would have detain him. they be few in the world who still have the secret of the conventional brush pen buddhist picture which be a it be half write and half draw. but the lama stride out head high in air and pause an instant before the great statue of a bodhisat in meditation brush through the turnstile. 
kim follow like a shadow. what he have overhear excite him wildly. this man be entirely new to all his experience and he mean to investigate further precisely a he would have investigate a new build or a strange festival in lahore city. the lama be his trove and he purpose to take possession. kim s mother have be irish too. 
the old man halt by zam zammah and look round till his eye fell on kim. the inspiration of his pilgrimage have leave him for awhile and he felt old forlorn and very empty. 
do not sit under that gun say the policeman loftily. 
huh. owl. be kim s retort on the lama s behalf. sit under that gun if it please thee. when didst thou steal the milkwoman s slipper dunnoo. 
that be an utterly unfounded charge spring on the spur of the moment but it silence dunnoo who know that kim s clear yell could call up legion of bad bazaar boy if need arise. 
and whom didst thou worship within. say kim affably squat in the shade beside the lama. 
i worship none child. i bow before the excellent law. 
kim accept this new god without emotion. he know already a few score. 
and what dost thou do. 
i beg. i remember now it be long since i have eat or drink. what be the custom of charity in this town. in silence a we do of tibet or speak aloud. 
those who beg in silence starve in silence say kim quote a native proverb. the lama try to rise but sink back again sigh for his disciple dead in far away kulu. kim watch head to one side consider and interest. 
give me the bowl. i know the people of this city all who be charitable. give and i will bring it back fill. 
simply a a child the old man hand him the bowl. 
rest thou. i know the people. 
he trot off to the open shop of a kunjri a low caste vegetable seller which lay opposite the belt tramway line down the motee bazar. she know kim of old. 
oho hast thou turn yogi with thy beg bowl. she cry. 
nay. say kim proudly. there be a new priest in the city a man such a i have never see. 
old priest young tiger say the woman angrily. i be tire of new priest. they settle on our ware like fly. be the father of my son a well of charity to give to all who ask. 
no say kim. thy man be rather yagi [bad tempered] than yogi [a holy man]. but this priest be new. the sahib in the wonder house ha talk to him like a brother. o my mother fill me this bowl. he wait. 
that bowl indeed. that cow belly basket. thou hast a much grace a the holy bull of shiv. he ha take the best of a basket of onion already this morn. and forsooth i must fill thy bowl. he come here again. 
the huge mouse colour brahmini bull of the ward be shoulder his way through the many colour crowd a steal plantain hang out of his mouth. he head straight for the shop well know his privilege a a sacred beast lower his head and puff heavily along the line of basket ere make his choice. up fly kim s hard little heel and catch him on his moist blue nose. he snort indignantly and walk away across the tram rail his hump quiver with rage. 
see. i have save more than the bowl will cost thrice over. now mother a little rice and some dry fish atop yes and some vegetable curry. 
a growl come out of the back of the shop where a man lay. 
he drive away the bull say the woman in an undertone. it be good to give to the poor. she take the bowl and return it full of hot rice. 
but my yogi be not a cow say kim gravely make a hole with his finger in the top of the mound. a little curry be good and a fry cake and a morsel of conserve would please him i think. 
it be a hole a big a thy head say the woman fretfully. but she fill it none the le with good steam vegetable curry clap a fry cake atop and a morsel of clarify butter on the cake dab a lump of sour tamarind conserve at the side. and kim look at the load lovingly. 
that be good. when i be in the bazar the bull shall not come to this house. he be a bold beggar man. 
and thou. laugh the woman. but speak well of bull. hast thou not tell me that some day a red bull will come out of a field to help thee. now hold all straight and ask for the holy man s bless upon me. perhaps too he know a cure for my daughter s sore eye. ask. him that also o thou little friend of all the world. 
but kim have dance off ere the end of the sentence dodge pariah dog and hungry acquaintance. 
thus do we beg who know the way of it say he proudly to the lama who open his eye at the content of the bowl. eat now and i will eat with thee. ohe bhisti. he call to the water carrier sluice the croton by the museum. give water here. we men be thirsty. 
we men. say the bhisti laugh. be one skinful enough for such a pair. drink then in the name of the compassionate. 
he loose a thin stream into kim s hand who drink native fashion. but the lama must need pull out a cup from his inexhaustible upper drapery and drink ceremonially. 
pardesi [a foreigner] kim explain a the old man deliver in an unknown tongue what be evidently a bless. 
they eat together in great content clear the beggingbowl. then the lama take snuff from a portentous wooden snuff gourd finger his rosary awhile and so drop into the easy sleep of age a the shadow of zam zammah grow long. 
kim loaf over to the near tobacco seller a rather lively young mohammedan woman and beg a rank cigar of the brand that they sell to student of the punjab university who copy english custom. then he smoke and think knee to chin under the belly of the gun and the outcome of his thought be a sudden and stealthy departure in the direction of nila ram s timber yard. 
the lama do not wake till the even life of the city have begin with lamp light and the return of white rob clerk and subordinate from the government office. he star dizzily in all direction but none look at him save a hindu urchin in a dirty turban and isabella colour clothe. suddenly he bow his head on his knee and wail. 
what be this. say the boy stand before him. hast thou be rob. 
it be my new chela [disciple] that be go away from me and i know not where he be. 
and what like of man be thy disciple. 
it be a boy who come to me in place of him who die on account of the merit which i have gain when i bow before the law within there. he point towards the museum. he come upon me to show me a road which i have lose. he lead me into the wonder house and by his talk embolden me to speak to the keeper of the image so that i be cheer and make strong. and when i be faint with hunger he beg for me a would a chela for his teacher. suddenly be he send. suddenly ha he go away. it be in my mind to have teach him the law upon the road to benares. 
kim stand amaze at this because he have overhear the talk in the museum and know that the old man be speak the truth which be a thing a native on the road seldom present to a strange. 
but i see now that he be but send for a purpose. by this i know that i shall find a certain river for which i seek. 
the river of the arrow. say kim with a superior smile. 
be this yet another send. cry the lama. to none have i speak of my search save to the priest of the image. who art thou. 
thy chela say kim simply sit on his heel. i have never see anyone like to thee in all this my life. i go with thee to benares. and too i think that so old a man a thou speak the truth to chance meet people at dusk be in great need of a disciple. 
but the river the river of the arrow. 
oh that i hear when thou wast speak to the englishman. i lay against the door. 
the lama sigh. i think thou hadst be a guide permit. such thing fall sometimes but i be not worthy. thou dost not then know the river. 
not i kim laugh uneasily. i go to look for for a bull a red. bull on a green field who shall help me. boylike if an acquaintance have a scheme kim be quite ready with one of his own. and boylike he have really think for a much a twenty minute at a time of his father s prophecy. 
to what child. say the lama. 
god know but so my father tell me. i hear thy talk in the wonder house of all those new strange place in the hill and if one so old and so little so use to truth tell may go out for the small matter of a river it seem to me that i too must go a travel. if it be our fate to find those thing we shall find them thou thy river. and i my bull and the strong pillar and some other matter that i forget. 
it be not pillar but a wheel from which i would be free say the lama. 
that be all one. perhaps they will make me a king say kim serenely prepare for anything. 
i will teach thee other and good desire upon the road the lama reply in the voice of authority. let u go to benares. 
not by night. thief be abroad. wait till the day. 
but there be no place to sleep. the old man be use to the order of his monastery and though he sleep on the grind a the rule decree prefer a decency in these thing. 
we shall get good lodge at the kashmir serai say kim laugh at his perplexity. i have a friend there. come. 
the hot and crowd bazar blaze with light a they make their way through the press of all the race in upper india and the lama moon through it like a man in a dream. it be his first experience of a large manufacture city and the crowd tram car with it continually squeal brake frighten him. half push half tow he arrive at the high gate of the kashmir serai. that huge open square over against the railway station surround with arch cloister where the camel and horse caravan put up on their return from central asia. here be all manner of northern folk tend tether pony and kneel camel. load and unload bale and bundle. draw water for the even meal at the creak well windlass. pile grass before the shriek wild eye stallion. cuff the surly caravan dog. pay off camel driver. take on new groom. swear shout argue and chaffer in the pack square. the cloister reach by three or four masonry step make a haven of refuge around this turbulent sea. most of them be rent to trader a we rent the arch of a viaduct. the space between pillar and pillar be bricked or board off into room which be guard by heavy wooden door and cumbrous native padlock. lock door show that the owner be away and a few rude sometimes very rude chalk or paint scratch tell where he have go. thus. lutuf ullah be go to kurdistan. below in coarse verse. o allah who sufferest louse to live on the coat of a kabuli why hast thou allow this louse lutuf to live so long. 
kim fend the lama between excite men and excite beast sidle along the cloister to the far end near therailway station where mahbub ali the horse trader live when he come in from that mysterious land beyond the pass of the north. 
kim have have many dealing with mahbub in his little life especially between his tenth and his thirteenth year and the big burly afghan his beard dye scarlet with lime. for he be elderly and do not wish his grey hair to show. know the boy s value a a gossip. sometimes he would tell kim to watch a man who have nothing whatever to do with horse. to follow him for one whole day and report every soul with whom he talk. kim would deliver himself of his tale at even and mahbub would listen without a word or gesture. it be intrigue of some kind kim know. but it worth lay in say nothing whatever to anyone except mahbub who give him beautiful meal all hot from the cookshop at the head of the serai and once a much a eight anna in money. 
he be here say kim hit a bad temper camel on the nose. ohe. mahbub ali. he halt at a dark arch and slip behind the bewilder lama. 
the horse trader his deep embroider bokhariot belt unloose be lie on a pair of silk carpet saddle bag pull lazily at an immense silver hookah. he turn his head very slightly at the cry. and see only the tall silent figure chuckle in his deep chest. 
allah. a lama. a red lama. it be far from lahore to the pass. what dost thou do here. 
the lama hold out the beg bowl mechanically. 
god s curse on all unbeliever. say mahbub. i do not give to a lousy tibetan. but ask my baltis over yonder behind the camel. they may value your blessing. oh horseboys here be a countryman of yours. see if he be hungry. 
a shave crouch balti who have come down with the horse and who be nominally some sort of degrade buddhist fawn upon the priest and in thick guttural beseech the holy one to sit at the horseboys fire. 
go. say kim push him lightly and the lama stride away leave kim at the edge of the cloister. 
go. say mahbub ali return to his hookah. little hindu run away. god s curse on all unbeliever. beg from those of my tail who be of thy faith. 
maharaj whine kim use the hindu form of address and thoroughly enjoy the situation. my father be dead my mother be dead my stomach be empty. 
beg from my men among the horse i say. there must be some hindu in my tail. 
oh mahbub ali but be i a hindu. say kim in english. 
the trader give no sign of astonishment but look under shaggy eyebrow. 
little friend of all the world say he what be this. 
nothing. i be now that holy man s disciple. and we go a pilgrimage together to benares he say. he be quite mad and i be tire of lahore city. i wish new air and water. 
but for whom dost thou work. why come to me. the voice be harsh with suspicion. 
to whom else should i come. i have no money. it be not good to go about without money. thou wilt sell many horse to the officer. they be very fine horse these new one. i have see them. give me a rupee mahbub ali and when i come to my wealth i will give thee a bond and pay. 
um. say mahbub ali think swiftly. thou hast never before lie to me. call that lama stand back in the dark. 
oh our tale will agree say kim laugh. 
we go to benares say the lama a soon a he understand the drift of mahbub ali s question. the boy and i i go to seek for a certain river. 
maybe but the boy. 
he be my disciple. he be send i think to guide me to that river. sit under a gun be i when he come suddenly. such thing have befall the fortunate to whom guidance be allow. but i remember now he say he be of this world a hindu. 
and his name. 
that i do not ask. be he not my disciple. 
his country his race his village. mussalman sikh hindu jain low caste or high. 
why should i ask. there be neither high nor low in the middle way. if he be my chela doe will can anyone take him from me. for look you without him i shall not find my river. he wag his head solemnly. 
none shall take him from thee. go sit among my baltis say mahbub ali and the lama drift off soothe by the promise. 
be he not quite mad. say kim come forward to the light again. why should i lie to thee hajji. 
mahbub puff his hookah in silence. then he begin almost whisper. umballa be on the road to benares if indeed ye two go there. 
tck. tck. i tell thee he doe not know how to lie a we two know. 
and if thou wilt carry a message for me a far a umballa i will give thee money. it concern a horse a white stallion which i have sell to an officer upon the last time i return from the pass. but then stand near and hold up hand a beg the pedigree of the white stallion be not fully establish and that officer who be now at umballa bid me make it clear. mahbub here describe the horse and the appearance of the officer. so the message to that officer will be. the pedigree of the white stallion be fully establish. by this will he know that thou comest from me. he will then say what proof hast thou. and thou wilt answer. mahbub ali ha give me the proof. 
and all for the sake of a white stallion say kim with a giggle his eye aflame. 
that pedigree i will give thee now in my own fashion and some hard word a well. a shadow pass behind kim and a feed camel. mahbub ali raise his voice. 
allah. art thou the only beggar in the city. thy mother be dead. thy father be dead. so be it with all of them. well well. 
he turn a feel on the floor beside him and toss a flap of soft greasy mussalman bread to the boy. go and lie down among my horseboys for tonight thou and the lama. tomorrow i may give thee service. 
kim slink away his teeth in the bread and a he expect he find a small wad of fold tissue paper wrap in oilskin with three silver rupee enormous largesse. he smile and thrust money and paper into his leather amulet case. the lama sumptuously feed by mahbub s baltis be already asleep in a corner of one of the stall. kim lay down beside him and laugh. he know he have render a service to mahbub ali and not for one little minute do he believe the tale of the stallion s pedigree. 
but kim do not suspect that mahbub ali know a one of the best horse dealer in the punjab a wealthy and enterprising trader whose caravan penetrate far and far into the back of beyond be register in one of the lock book of the indian survey department a c ib. twice or thrice yearly c would send in a little story baldly tell but most interest and generally it be check by the statement of r and m quite true. it concern all manner of out of the way mountain principality explorer of nationality other than english and the guntrade be in brief a small portion of that vast mass of information receive on which the indian government act. but recently five confederate king who have no business to confederate have be inform by a kindly northern power that there be a leakage of news from their territory into british india. so those king prime minister be seriously annoy and take step after the oriental fashion. they suspect among many others the bully red beard horsedealer whose caravan plough through their fastness belly deep in snow. at least his caravan that season have be ambush and shoot at twice on the way down when mahbub s men account for three strange ruffian who might or might not have be hire for the job. therefore mahbub have avoid halt at the insalubrious city of peshawur and have come through without stop to lahore where know his country people he anticipate curious development. 
and there be that on mahbub ali which he do not wish to keep an hour long than be necessary a wad of closely fold tissue paper wrap in oilskin an impersonal unaddressed statement with five microscopic pin hole in one corner that most scandalously betray the five confederate king the sympathetic northern power a hindu banker in peshawur a firm of gun maker in belgium and an important semi independent mohammedan ruler to the south. this last be r s work which mahbub have pick up beyond the dora pas and be carry in for r who owe to circumstance over which he have no control could not leave his post of observation. dynamite be milky and innocuous beside that report of c. and even an oriental with an oriental s view of the value of time could see that the sooner it be in the proper hand the good. mahbub have no particular desire to die by violence because two or three family blood feud across the border hang unfinished on his hand and when these score be clear he intend to settle down a a more or le virtuous citizen. he have never pass the serai gate since his arrival two day ago but have be ostentatious in send telegram to bombay where he bank some of his money. to delhi where a sub partner of his own clan be sell horse to the agent of a rajputana state. and to umballa where an englishman be excitedly demand the pedigree of a white stallion. the public letter writer who know english compose excellent telegram such a. creighton laurel bank umballa. horse be arabian a already advise. sorrowful delay pedigree which be translate. and late to the same address. much sorrowful delay. will forward pedigree. to his sub partner at delhi he wire. lutuf ullah. have wire two thousand rupee your credit luchman narain s bank this be entirely in the way of trade but every one of those telegram be discuss and rediscussed by party who conceive themselves to be interest before they go over to the railway station in charge of a foolish balti who allow all sort of people to read them on the road. 
when in mahbub s own picturesque language he have muddy the well of inquiry with the stick of precaution kim have drop on him send from heaven. and be a prompt a he be unscrupulous mahbub ali use to take all sort of gusty chance press him into service on the spot. 
a wander lama with a low caste boy servant might attract a moment s interest a they wander about india the land of pilgrim. but no one would suspect them or what be more to the point rob. 
he call for a new light ball to his hookah and consider the case. if the bad come to the bad and the boy come to harm the paper would incriminate nobody. and he would go up to umballa leisurely and at a certain risk of excite fresh suspicion repeat his tale by word of mouth to the people concern. 
but r s report be the kernel of the whole affair and it would be distinctly inconvenient if that fail to come to hand. however god be great and mahbub ali felt he have do all he could for the time be. kim be the one soul in the world who have never tell him a lie. that would have be a fatal blot on kim s character if mahbub have not know that to others for his own end or mahbub s business kim could lie like an oriental. 
then mahbub ali roll across the serai to the gate of the harpy who paint their eye and trap the strange and be at some pain to call on the one girl who he have reason to believe be a particular friend of a smooth face kashmiri pundit who have waylay his simple balti in the matter of the telegram. it be an utterly foolish thing to do. because they fell to drink perfume brandy against the law of the prophet and mahbub grow wonderfully drink and the gate of his mouth be loosen and he pursue the flower of delight with the foot of intoxication till he fell flat among the cushion where the flower of delight aid by a smooth face kashmiri pundit search him from head to foot most thoroughly. 
about the same hour kim hear soft foot in mahbub s desert stall. the horse trader curiously enough have leave his door unlock and his men be busy celebrate their return to india with a whole sheep of mahbub s bounty. a sleek young gentleman from delhi arm with a bunch of key which the flower have unshackled from the senseless one s belt go through every single box bundle mat and saddle bag in mahbub s possession even more systematically than the flower and the pundit be search the owner. 
and i think. say the flower scornfully an hour late one round elbow on the snore carcass that he be no more than a pig of an afghan horse dealer with no think except woman and horse. moreover he may have send it away by now if ever there be such a thing. 
nay in a matter touch five king it would be next his black heart say the pundit. be there nothing. 
the delhi man laugh and resettle his turban a he enter. i search between the sol of his slipper a the flower search his clothe. this be not the man but another. i leave little unseen. 
they do not say he be the very man say the pundit thoughtfully. they say look if he be the man since our counsel be trouble. 
that north country be full of horse dealer a an old coat of louse. there be sikandar khan nur ali beg and farrukh shah all head of kafilas [caravans] who deal there say the flower. 
they have not yet come in say the pundit. thou must ensnare them late. 
phew. say the flower with deep disgust roll mahbub s head from her lap. i earn my money. farrukh shah be a bear ali beg a swashbuckler and old sikandar khan yaie. go. i sleep now. this swine will not stir till dawn. 
when mahbub wake the flower talk to him severely on the sin of drunkenness. asiatic do not wink when they have outmanoeuvre an enemy but a mahbub ali clear his throat tighten his belt and stagger forth under the early morning star he come very near to it. 
what a colt s trick. say he to himself. a if every girl in peshawur do not use it. but twas prettily do. now god he know how many more there be upon the road who have order to test me perhaps with the knife. so it stand that the boy must go to umballa and by rail for the write be something urgent. i abide here follow the flower and drink wine a an afghan coper should. 
he halt at the stall next but one to his own. his men lay there heavy with sleep. there be no sign of kim or the lama. 
up. he stir a sleeper. whither go those who lay here last even the lama and the boy. be aught miss. 
nay grunt the man the old madman rise at second cockcrow say he would go to benares and the young one lead him away. 
the curse of allah on all unbeliever. say mahbub heartily and climb into his own stall growl in his beard. 
but it be kim who have waken the lama kim with one eye lay against a knot hole in the plank who have see the delhi man s search through the box. this be no common thief that turn over letter bill and saddle no mere burglar who run a little knife sideways into the sol of mahbub s slipper or pick the seam of the saddle bag so deftly. at first kim have be mind to give the alarm the long draw choor choor. [thief. thief. ] that set the serai ablaze of night. but he look more carefully and hand on amulet draw his own conclusion. 
it must be the pedigree of that make up horse lie say he the thing that i carry to umballa. good that we go now. those who search bag with knife may presently search belly with knife. surely there be a woman behind this. hai. hai. in a whisper to the light sleep old man. come. it be time time to go to benares. 
the lama rise obediently and they pass out of the serai like shadow. 
chapter. 
and whoso will from pride release. contemn neither creed nor priest may feel the soul of all the east. about him at kamakura. 
buddha at kamakura. 
they enter the fort like railway station black in the end of night. the electric sizzle over the good yard where they handle the heavy northern grain traffic. 
this be the work of devil. say the lama recoil from the hollow echo darkness the glimmer of rail between the masonry platform and the maze of girder above. he stand in a gigantic stone hall pave it seem with the sheet dead third class passenger who have take their ticket overnight and be sleep in the wait room. all hour of the twenty four be alike to oriental and their passenger traffic be regulate accordingly. 
this be where the fire carriage come. one stand behind that hole kim point to the ticket office who will give thee a paper to take thee to umballa. 
but we go to benares he reply petulantly. 
all one. benares then. quick. she come. 
take thou the purse. 
the lama not so well use to train a he have pretend start a the. a. m. south bind roar in. the sleeper spring to life and the station fill with clamour and shouting cry of water and sweetmeat vendor shout of native policeman and shrill yell of woman gather up their basket their family and their husband. 
it be the train only the te rain. it will not come here. wait. amaze at the lama s immense simplicity. he have hand him a small bag full of rupee. kim ask and pay for a ticket to umballa. a sleepy clerk grunt and fling out a ticket to the next station just six mile distant. 
nay say kim scan it with a grin. this may serve for farmer but i live in the city of lahore. it be cleverly do babu. now give the ticket to umballa. 
the babu scowl and deal the proper ticket. 
now another to amritzar say kim who have no notion of spend mahbub ali s money on anything so crude a a pay ride to umballa. the price be so much. the small money in return be just so much. i know the way of the te rain. never do yogi need chela a thou dost he go on merrily to the bewilder lama. they would have fling thee out at mian mir but for me. this way. come. he return the money keep only one anna in each rupee of the price of the umballa ticket a his commission the immemorial commission of asia. 
the lama jib at the open door of a crowd third class carriage. be it not good to walk. say he weakly. 
a burly sikh artisan thrust forth his beard head. be he afraid. do not be afraid. i remember the time when i be afraid of the te rain. enter. this thing be the work of the government. 
i do not fear say the lama. have ye room within for two. 
there be no room even for a mouse shrill the wife of a well to do cultivator a hindu jat from the rich jullundur district. our night train be not a well look after a the day one where the sex be very strictly keep to separate carriage. 
oh mother of my son we can make space say the blueturbaned husband. pick up the child. it be a holy man see st thou. 
and my lap full of seventy time seven bundle. why not bid him sit on my knee shameless. but men be ever thus. she look round for approval. an amritzar courtesan near the window sniff behind her head drapery. 
enter. enter. cry a fat hindu money lender his fold account book in a cloth under his arm. with an oily smirk. it be well to be kind to the poor. 
ay at seven per cent a month with a mortgage on the unborn calf say a young dogra soldier go south on leave. and they all laugh. 
will it travel to benares. say the lama. 
assuredly. else why should we come. enter or we be leave cry kim. 
see. shrill the amritzar girl. he ha never enter a train. oh see. 
nay help say the cultivator put out a large brown hand and haul him in. thus be it do father. 
but but i sit on the floor. it be against the rule to sit on a bench say the lama. moreover it cramp me. 
i say begin the money lender purse his lip that there be not one rule of right live which these te rain do not cause u to break. we sit for example side by side with all caste and people. 
yea and with most outrageously shameless one say the wife scowl at the amritzar girl make eye at the young sepoy. 
i say we might have go by cart along the road say the husband and thus have save some money. 
yes and spend twice over what we save on food by the way. that be talk out ten thousand time. 
ay by ten thousand tongue grunt he. 
the god help u poor woman if we may not speak. oho. he be of that sort which may not look at or reply to a woman. for the lama constrain by his rule take not the faint notice of her. and his disciple be like him. 
nay mother say kim most promptly. not when the woman be well look and above all charitable to the hungry. 
a beggar s answer say the sikh laugh. thou hast bring it on thyself sister. kim s hand be crook in supplication. 
and whither go thou. say the woman hand him the half of a cake from a greasy package. 
even to benares. 
juggler belike. the young soldier suggest. have ye any trick to pas the time. why doe not that yellow man answer. 
because say kim stoutly he be holy and think upon matter hide from thee. 
that may be well. we of the ludhiana sikh he roll it out sonorously do not trouble our head with doctrine. we fight. 
my sister s brother s son be naik [corporal] in that regiment say the sikh craftsman quietly. there be also some dogra company there. the soldier glare for a dogra be of other caste than a sikh and the banker titter. 
they be all one to me say the amritzar girl. 
that we believe snort the cultivator s wife malignantly. 
nay but all who serve the sirkar with weapon in their hand be a it be one brotherhood. there be one brotherhood of the caste but beyond that again she look round timidly the bond of the pulton the regiment eh. 
my brother be in a jat regiment say the cultivator. dogras be good men. 
thy sikh at least be of that opinion say the soldier with a scowl at the placid old man in the corner. thy sikh think so when our two company come to help them at the pirzai kotal in the face of eight afridi standard on the ridge not three month go. 
he tell the story of a border action in which the dogra company of the ludhiana sikh have acquit themselves well. the amritzar girl smile. for she know the talk be to win her approval. 
ala. say the cultivator s wife at the end. so their village be burn and their little child make homeless. 
they have mark our dead. they pay a great payment after we of the sikh have school them. so it be. be this amritzar. 
ay and here they cut our ticket say the banker fumble at his belt. 
the lamp be pal in the dawn when the half caste guard come round. ticket collect be a slow business in the east where people secrete their ticket in all sort of curious place. kim produce his and be tell to get out. 
but i go to umballa he protest. i go with this holy man. 
thou canst go to jehannum for aught i care. this ticket be only. 
kim burst into a flood of tear protest that the lama be his father and his mother that he be the prop of the lama s decline year and that the lama would die without his care. all the carriage bid the guard be merciful the banker be specially eloquent here but the guard haul kim on to the platform. the lama blink he could not overtake the situation and kim lift up his voice and weep outside the carriage window. 
i be very poor. my father be dead my mother be dead. o charitable one if i be leave here who shall tend that old man. 
what what be this. the lama repeat. he must go to benares. he must come with me. he be my chela. if there be money to be pay. 
oh be silent whisper kim. be we rajah to throw away good silver when the world be so charitable. 
the amritzar girl step out with her bundle and it be on her that kim keep his watchful eye. lady of that persuasion he know be generous. 
a ticket a little tikkut to umballa o breaker of heart. she laugh. hast thou no charity. 
doe the holy man come from the north. 
from far and far in the north he come cry kim. from among the hill. 
there be snow among the pine tree in the north in the hill there be snow. my mother be from kulu. get thee a ticket. ask him for a bless. 
ten thousand blessing shrill kim. o holy one a woman ha give u in charity so that i can come with thee a woman with a golden heart. i run for the tikkut. 
the girl look up at the lama who have mechanically follow kim to the platform. he bow his head that he might not see her and mutter in tibetan a she pass on with the crowd. 
light come light go say the cultivator s wife viciously. 
she ha acquire merit return the lama. beyond doubt it be a nun. 
there be ten thousand such nun in amritzar alone. return old man or the te rain may depart without thee cry the banker. 
not only be it sufficient for the ticket but for a little food also say kim leap to his place. now eat holy one. look. day come. 
golden rise saffron and pink the morning mist smoke away across the flat green level. all the rich punjab lay out in the splendour of the keen sun. the lama flinch a little a the telegraph post swing by. 
great be the speed of the te rain say the banker with a patronize grin. we have go farther since lahore than thou couldst walk in two day. at even we shall enter umballa. 
and that be still far from benares say the lama wearily mumble over the cake that kim offer. they all unloose their bundle and make their morning meal. then the banker the cultivator and the soldier prepare their pipe and wrap the compartment in choke acrid smoke spit and cough and enjoy themselves. the sikh and the cultivator s wife chew pan. the lama take snuff and tell his bead while kim cross legged smile over the comfort of a full stomach. 
what river have ye by benares. say the lama of a sudden to the carriage at large. 
we have gunga return the banker when the little titter have subside. 
what others. 
what other than gunga. 
nay but in my mind be the think of a certain river of heal. 
that be gunga. who bathe in her be make clean and go to the god. thrice have i make pilgrimage to gunga. he look round proudly. 
there be need say the young sepoy drily and the traveller laugh turn against the banker. 
clean to return again to the god the lama mutter. and to go forth on the round of life anew still tie to the wheel. he shake his head testily. but maybe there be a mistake. who then make gunga in the begin. 
the god. of what know faith art thou. the banker say appal. 
i follow the law the most excellent law. so it be the god that make gunga. what like of god be they. 
the carriage look at him in amazement. it be inconceivable that anyone should be ignorant of gunga. 
what what be thy god. say the money lender at last. 
hear. say the lama shift the rosary to his hand. hear. for i speak of him now. o people of hind listen. 
he begin in urdu the tale of the lord buddha but bear by his own thought slide into tibetan and long drone text from a chinese book of the buddha s life. the gentle tolerant folk look on reverently. all india be full of holy men stammer gospel in strange tongue. shake and consume in the fire of their own zeal. dreamer babbler and visionary. a it ha be from the begin and will continue to the end. 
um. say the soldier of the ludhiana sikh. there be a mohammedan regiment lay next to u at the pirzai kotal and a priest of theirs he be a i remember a naik when the fit be on him spake prophecy. but the mad all be in god s keep. his officer overlook much in that man. 
the lama fell back on urdu remember that he be in a strange land. hear the tale of the arrow which our lord loose from the bow he say. 
this be much more to their taste and they listen curiously while he tell it. now o people of hind i go to seek that river. know ye aught that may guide me for we be all men and woman in evil case. 
there be gunga and gunga alone who wash away sin. run the murmur round the carriage. 
though past question we have good god jullundur way say the cultivator s wife look out of the window. see how they have bless the crop. 
to search every river in the punjab be no small matter say her husband. for me a stream that leaf good silt on my land suffice and i thank bhumia the god of the home stead. he shrug one knot bronze shoulder. 
think you our lord come so far north. say the lama turn to kim. 
it may be kim reply soothingly a he spat red pan juice on the floor. 
the last of the great one say the sikh with authority be sikander julkarn [alexander the great]. he pave the street of jullundur and build a great tank near umballa. that pavement hold to this day. and the tank be there also. i never hear of thy god. 
let thy hair grow long and talk punjabi say the young soldier jestingly to kim quote a northern proverb. that be all that make a sikh. but he do not say this very loud. 
the lama sigh and shrink into himself a dingy shapeless mass. in the pause of their talk they could hear the low drone om mane pudme hum. om mane pudme hum. and the thick click of the wooden rosary bead. 
it irk me he say at last. the speed and the clatter irk me. moreover my chela i think that maybe we have over pass that river. 
peace peace say kim. be not the river near benares. we be yet far from the place. 
but if our lord come north it may be any one of these little one that we have run across. 
i do not know. 
but thou wast send to me wast thou send to me. for the merit i have acquire over yonder at such zen. from beside the cannon didst thou come bear two face and two garb. 
peace. one must not speak of these thing here whisper kim. there be but one of me. think again and thou wilt remember. a boy a hindu boy by the great green cannon. 
but be there not also an englishman with a white beard holy among image who himself make more sure my assurance of the river of the arrow. 
he we go to the ajaib gher in lahore to pray before the god there kim explain to the openly listen company. and the sahib of the wonder house talk to him yes this be truth a a brother. he be a very holy man from far beyond the hill. rest thou. in time we come to umballa. 
but my river the river of my heal. 
and then if it please thee we will go hunt for that river on foot. so that we miss nothing not even a little rivulet in a field side. 
but thou hast a search of thine own. the lama very please that he remember so well sit bolt upright. 
ay say kim humour him. the boy be entirely happy to be out chew pan and see new people in the great good temper world. 
it be a bull a red bull that shall come and help thee and carry thee whither. i have forget. a red bull on a green field be it not. 
nay it will carry me nowhere say kim. it be but a tale i tell thee. 
what be this. the cultivator s wife lean forward her bracelet clink on her arm. do ye both dream dream. a red bull on a green field that shall carry thee to the heaven or what. be it a vision. do one make a prophecy. we have a red bull in our village behind jullundur city and he graz by choice in the very green of our field. 
give a woman an old wife s tale and a weaver bird a leaf and a thread they will weave wonderful thing say the sikh. all holy men dream dream and by follow holy men their disciple attain that power. 
a red bull on a green field be it. the lama repeat. in a former life it may be thou hast acquire merit and the bull will come to reward thee. 
nay nay it be but a tale one tell to me for a jest belike. but i will seek the bull about umballa and thou canst look for thy river and rest from the clatter of the train. 
it may be that the bull know that he be send to guide u both. say the lama hopefully a a child. then to the company indicate kim. this one be send to me but yesterday. he be not i think of this world. 
beggar aplenty have i meet and holy men to boot but never such a yogi nor such a disciple say the woman. 
her husband touch his forehead lightly with one finger and smile. but the next time the lama would eat they take care to give him of their best. 
and at last tire sleepy and dusty they reach umballa city station. 
we abide here upon a law suit say the cultivator s wife to kim. we lodge with my man s cousin s young brother. there be room also in the courtyard for thy yogi and for thee. will will he give me a bless. 
o holy man. a woman with a heart of gold give u lodge for the night. it be a kindly land this land of the south. see how we have be help since the dawn. 
the lama bow his head in benediction. 
to fill my cousin s young brother s house with wastrel the husband begin a he shoulder his heavy bamboo staff. 
thy cousin s young brother owe my father s cousin something yet on his daughter s marriage feast say the woman crisply. let him put their food to that account. the yogi will beg i doubt not. 
ay i beg for him say kim anxious only to get the lama under shelter for the night that he might seek mahbub ali s englishman and deliver himself of the white stallion s pedigree. 
now say he when the lama have come to an anchor in the inner courtyard of a decent hindu house behind the cantonment i go away for a while to to buy u victual in the bazar. do not stray abroad till i return. 
thou wilt return. thou wilt surely return. the old man catch at his wrist. and thou wilt return in this very same shape. be it too late to look tonight for the river. 
too late and too dark. be comfort. think how far thou art on the road an hundred mile from lahore already. 
yea and farther from my monastery. ala. it be a great and terrible world. 
kim steal out and away a unremarkable a figure a ever carry his own and a few score thousand other folk s fate sling round his neck. mahbub ali s direction leave him little doubt of the house in which his englishman live. and a groom bring a dog cart home from the club make him quite sure. it remain only to identify his man and kim slip through the garden hedge and hide in a clump of plume grass close to the veranda. the house blaze with light and servant move about table dress with flower glass and silver. presently forth come an englishman dress in black and white hum a tune. it be too dark to see his face so kim beggar wise try an old experiment. 
protector of the poor. 
the man back towards the voice. 
mahbub ali say. 
hah. what say mahbub ali. he make no attempt to look for the speaker and that show kim that he know. 
the pedigree of the white stallion be fully establish. 
what proof be there. the englishman switch at the rise hedge in the side of the drive. 
mahbub ali ha give me this proof. kim flip the wad of fold paper into the air and it fell in the path beside the man who put his foot on it a a gardener come round the corner. when the servant pass he pick it up drop a rupee kim could hear the clink and stride into the house never turn round. swiftly kim take up the money. but for all his train he be irish enough by birth to reckon silver the least part of any game. what he desire be the visible effect of action. so instead of slink away he lay close in the grass and worm near to the house. 
he saw indian bungalow be open through and through the englishman return to a small dress room in a comer of the veranda that be half office litter with paper and despatch box and sit down to study mahbub ali s message. his face by the full ray of the kerosene lamp change and darken and kim use a every beggar must be to watch countenance take good note. 
will. will dear. call a woman s voice. you ought to be in the draw room. they ll be here in a minute. 
the man still read intently. 
will. say the voice five minute late. he s come. i can hear the trooper in the drive. 
the man dash out bareheaded a a big landau with four native trooper behind it halt at the veranda and a tall black haired man erect a an arrow swing out precede by a young officer who laugh pleasantly. 
flat on his belly lay kim almost touch the high wheel. his man and the black strange exchange two sentence. 
certainly sir say the young officer promptly. everything wait while a horse be concern. 
we shan t be more than twenty minute say kim s man. you can do the honour keep em amuse and all that. 
tell one of the trooper to wait say the tall man and they both pass into the dress room together a the landau roll away. kim saw their head bend over mahbub ali s message and hear the voice one low and deferential the other sharp and decisive. 
it isn t a question of week. it be a question of day hour almost say the elder. i d be expect it for some time but this he tap mahbub ali s paper clinch it. grogan s din here to night isn t he. 
yes sir and macklin too. 
very good. i ll speak to them myself. the matter will be refer to the council of course but this be a case where one be justify in assume that we take action at once. warn the pin and peshawar brigade. it will disorganize all the summer relief but we can t help that. this come of not smash them thoroughly the first time. eight thousand should be enough. 
what about artillery sir. 
i must consult macklin. 
then it mean war. 
no. punishment. when a man be bind by the action of his predecessor. 
but c may have lie. 
he bear out the other s information. practically they show their hand six month back. but devenish would have it there be a chance of peace. of course they use it to make themselves strong. send off those telegram at once the new code not the old mine and wharton s. i don t think we need keep the lady wait any long. we can settle the rest over the cigar. i think it be come. it s punishment not war. 
a the trooper canter off kim crawl round to the back of the house where go on his lahore experience he judge there would be food and information. the kitchen be crowd with excite scullion one of whom kick him. 
aie say kim feign tear. i come only to wash dish in return for a bellyful. 
all umballa be on the same errand. get hence. they go in now with the soup. think you that we who serve creighton sahib need strange scullion to help u through a big dinner. 
it be a very big dinner say kim look at the plate. 
small wonder. the guest of honour be none other than the jang i lat sahib [the commander in chief]. 
ho. say kim with the correct guttural note of wonder. he have learn what he want and when the scullion turn he be go. 
and all that trouble say he to himself think a usual in hindustani for a horse s pedigree. mahbub ali should have come to me to learn a little lie. every time before that i have bear a message it concern a woman. now it be men. good. the tall man say that they will loose a great army to punish someone somewhere the news go to pindi and peshawur. there be also gun. would i have creep near. it be big news. 
he return to find the cultivator s cousin s young brother discuss the family law suit in all it bearing with the cultivator and his wife and a few friend while the lama doze. after the even meal some one pass him a water pipe. and kim felt very much of a man a he pull at the smooth coconut shell his leg spread abroad in the moonlight his tongue click in remark from time to time. his host be most polite. for the cultivator s wife have tell them of his vision of the red bull and of his probable descent from another world. moreover the lama be a great and venerable curiosity. 
the family priest an old tolerant sarsut brahmin drop in late and naturally start a theological argument to impress the family. by creed of course they be all on their priest s side but the lama be the guest and the novelty. his gentle kindliness and his impressive chinese quotation that sound like spell delight them hugely. and in this sympathetic simple air he expand like the bodhisat s own lotus speak of his life in the great hill of such zen before a he say i rise up to seek enlightenment. 
then it come out that in those worldly day he have be a master hand at cast horoscope and nativity. and the family priest lead him on to describe his method. each give the planet name that the other could not understand and point upwards a the big star sail across the dark. the child of the house tug unrebuked at his rosary. and he clean forget the rule which forbid look at woman a he talk of endure snow landslip block pass the remote cliff where men find sapphire and turquoise and that wonderful upland road that lead at last into great china itself. 
how thinkest thou of this one. say the cultivator aside to the priest. 
a holy man a holy man indeed. his god be not the god but his foot be upon the way be the answer. and his method of nativity though that be beyond thee be wise and sure. 
tell me say kim lazily whether i find my red bull on a green field a be promise me. 
what knowledge hast thou of thy birth hour. the priest ask swell with importance. 
between first and second cockcrow of the first night in may. 
of what year. 
i do not know. but upon the hour that i cry first fell the great earthquake in srinagar which be in kashmir. this kim have from the woman who take care of him and she again from kimball o hara. the earthquake have be felt in india and for long stand a lead date in the punjab. 
ai. say a woman excitedly. this seem to make kim s supernatural origin more certain. be not such an one s daughter bear then. 
and her mother bore her husband four son in four year all likely boy cry the cultivator s wife sit outside the circle in the shadow. 
none rear in the knowledge say the family priest forget how the planet stand in their house upon that night. he begin to draw in the dust of the courtyard. at least thou hast good claim to a half of the house of the bull. how run thy prophecy. 
upon a day say kim delight at the sensation he be create i shall be make great by mean of a red bull on a green field but first there will enter two men make all thing ready. 
yes. thus ever at the open of a vision. a thick darkness that clear slowly. anon one enter with a broom make ready the place. then begin the sight. two men thou sayest. ay ay. the sun leave the house of the bull enter that of the twin. hence the two men of the prophecy. let u now consider. fetch me a twig little one. 
he knit his brow scratch smooth out and scratch again in the dust mysterious sign to the wonder of all save the lama who with fine instinct forbear to interfere. 
at the end of half an hour he toss the twig from him with a grunt. 
hm. thus say the star. within three day come the two men to make all thing ready. after them follow the bull. but the sign over against him be the sign of war and arm men. 
there be indeed a man of the ludhiana sikh in the carriage from lahore say the cultivator s wife hopefully. 
tck. arm men many hundred. what concern hast thou with war. say the priest to kim. thine be a red and an angry sign of war to be loose very soon. 
none none. say the lama earnestly. we seek only peace and our river. 
kim smile remember what he have overhear in the dress room. decidedly he be a favourite of the star. 
the priest brush his foot over the rude horoscope. more than this i cannot see. in three day come the bull to thee boy. 
and my river my river plead the lama. i have hop his bull would lead u both to the river. 
ala for that wondrous river my brother the priest reply. such thing be not common. 
next morning though they be press to stay the lama insist on departure. they give kim a large bundle of good food and nearly three anna in copper money for the need of the road and with many blessing watch the two go southward in the dawn. 
pity it be that these and such a these could not be free from. 
nay then would only evil people be leave on the earth and who would give u meat and shelter. quoth kim step merrily under his burden. 
yonder be a small stream. let u look say the lama and he lead from the white road across the field. walk into a very hornet nest of pariah dog. 
chapter. 
yea voice of every soul that cling to life that strive from ring to ring when devadatta s rule be young the warm wind bring kamakura. 
buddha at kamakura. 
behind them an angry farmer brandish a bamboo pole. he be a market gardener arain by caste grow vegetable and flower for umballa city and well kim know the breed. 
such an one say the lama disregard the dog be impolite to stranger intemperate of speech and uncharitable. be warn by his demeanour my disciple. 
ho shameless beggar. shout the farmer. begone. get hence. 
we go the lama return with quiet dignity. we go from these unblessed field. 
ah say kim suck in his breath. if the next crop fail thou canst only blame thine own tongue. 
the man shuffle uneasily in his slipper. the land be full of beggar he begin half apologetically. 
and by what sign didst thou know that we would beg from thee o mali. say kim tartly use the name that a market gardener least like. all we seek be to look at that river beyond the field there. 
river forsooth. the man snort. what city do ye hail from not to know a canal cut. it run a straight a an arrow and i pay for the water a though it be melt silver. there be a branch of a river beyond. but if ye need water i can give that and milk. 
nay we will go to the river say the lama stride out. 
milk and a meal. the man stammer a he look at the strange tall figure. i i would not draw evil upon myself or my crop. but beggar be so many in these hard day. 
take notice. the lama turn to kim. he be lead to speak harshly by the red mist of anger. that clear from his eye he become courteous and of an affable heart. may his field be bless. beware not to judge men too hastily o farmer. 
i have meet holy one who would have curse thee from hearthstone to byre say kim to the abash man. be he not wise and holy. i be his disciple. 
he cock his nose in the air loftily and step across the narrow field border with great dignity. 
there be no pride say the lama after a pause there be no pride among such a follow the middle way. 
but thou hast say he be low caste and discourteous. 
low caste i do not say for how can that be which be not. afterwards he amend his discourtesy and i forget the offence. moreover he be a we be bind upon the wheel of thing. but he doe not tread the way of deliverance. he halt at a little runlet among the field and consider the hoof pit bank. 
now how wilt thou know thy river. say kim squat in the shade of some tall sugar cane. 
when i find it an enlightenment will surely be give. this i feel be not the place. o little among the water if only thou couldst tell me where run my river. but be thou bless to make the field bear. 
look. look. kim spring to his side and drag him back. a yellow and brown streak glide from the purple rustle stem to the bank stretch it neck to the water drink and lay still a big cobra with fix lidless eye. 
i have no stick i have no stick say kim. i will get me one and break his back. 
why. he be upon the wheel a we be a life ascend or descend very far from deliverance. great evil must the soul have do that be cast into this shape. 
i hate all snake say kim. no native train can quench the white man s horror of the serpent. 
let him live out his life. the coil thing hiss and half open it hood. may thy release come soon brother. the lama continue placidly. hast thou knowledge by chance of my river. 
never have i see such a man a thou art kim whisper overwhelm. do the very snake understand thy talk. 
who know. he pass within a foot of the cobra s poise head. it flatten itself among the dusty coil. 
come thou. he call over his shoulder. 
not i say kim. i go round. 
come. he doe no hurt. 
kim hesitate for a moment. the lama back his order by some drone chinese quotation which kim take for a charm. he obey and bound across the rivulet and the snake indeed make no sign. 
never have i see such a man. kim wipe the sweat from his forehead. and now whither go we. 
that be for thee to say. i be old and a strange far from my own place. but that the rail carriage fill my head with noise of devil drum i would go in it to benares now. yet by so go we may miss the river. let u find another river. 
where the hard work soil give three and even four crop a year through patch of sugar cane tobacco long white radish and nol kol all that day they stroll on turn aside to every glimpse of water. rouse village dog and sleep village at noonday. the lama reply to the volley question with an unswerving simplicity. they seek a river. a river of miraculous heal. have any one knowledge of such a stream. 
sometimes men laugh but more often hear the story out to the end and offer them a place in the shade a drink of milk and a meal. the woman be always kind and the little child a child be the world over alternately shy and venturesome. 
even find them at rest under the village tree of a mud wall mud roof hamlet talk to the headman a the cattle come in from the graze ground and the woman prepare the day s last meal. they have pass beyond the belt of market garden round hungry umballa and be among the mile wide green of the staple crop. 
he be a white beard and affable elder use to entertain stranger. he drag out a string bedstead for the lama set warm cook food before him prepare him a pipe and the even ceremony be finish in the village temple send for the village priest. 
kim tell the old child tale of the size and beauty of lahore of railway travel and such like city thing while the men talk slowly a their cattle chew the cud. 
i cannot fathom it say the headman at last to the priest. how readest thou this talk. the lama his tale tell be silently tell his bead. 
he be a seeker. the priest answer. the land be full of such. remember him who come only last month the fakir with the tortoise. 
ay but that man have right and reason for krishna himself appear in a vision promise him paradise without the burn pyre if he journey to prayag. this man seek no god who be within my knowledge. 
peace he be old. he come from far off and he be mad the smooth shave priest reply. hear me. he turn to the lama. three kos [six miles] to the westward run the great road to calcutta. 
but i would go to benares to benares. 
and to benares also. it cross all stream on this side of hind. now my word to thee holy one be rest here till tomorrow. then take the road. it be the grand trunk road he mean. and test each stream that it overpass. for a i understand the virtue of thy river lie neither in one pool nor place but throughout it length. then if thy god will be assure that thou wilt come upon thy freedom. 
that be well say. the lama be much impress by the plan. we will begin tomorrow and a bless on thee for show old foot such a near road. a deep sing song chinese half chant close the sentence. even the priest be impress and the headman fear an evil spell. but none could look at the lama s simple eager face and doubt him long. 
seest thou my chela. he say dive into his snuff gourd with an important sniff. it be his duty to repay courtesy with courtesy. 
i see and hear. the headman roll his eye where kim be chat to a girl in blue a she lay crackle thorn on a fire. 
he also ha a search of his own. no river but a bull. yea a red bull on a green field will some day raise him to honour. he be i think not altogether of this world. he be send of a sudden to aid me in this search and his name be friend of all the world. 
the priest smile. ho there friend of all the world he cry across the sharp smell smoke what art thou. 
this holy one s disciple say kim. 
he say thou be a but [a spirit]. 
can buts eat. say kim with a twinkle. for i be hungry. 
it be no jest cry the lama. a certain astrologer of that city whose name i have forget. 
that be no more than the city of umballa where we sleep last night kim whisper to the priest. 
ay umballa be it. he cast a horoscope and declare that my chela should find his desire within two day. but what say he of the mean of the star friend of all the world. 
kim clear his throat and look around at the village greybeard. 
the mean of my star be war he reply pompously. 
somebody laugh at the little tattered figure strut on the brickwork plinth under the great tree. where a native would have lie down kim s white blood set him upon his foot. 
ay war he answer. 
that be a sure prophecy rumble a deep voice. for there be always war along the border a i know. 
it be an old wither man who have serve the government in the day of the mutiny a a native officer in a newly raise cavalry regiment. the government have give him a good hold in the village and though the demand of his son now grey beard officer on their own account have impoverish him he be still a person of consequence. english official deputy commissioner even turn aside from the main road to visit him and on those occasion he dress himself in the uniform of ancient day and stand up like a ramrod. 
but this shall be a great war a war of eight thousand. kim s voice shrill across the quick gather crowd astonish himself. 
redcoat or our own regiment. the old man snap a though he be ask an equal. his tone make men respect kim. 
redcoat say kim at a venture. redcoat and gun. 
but but the astrologer say no word of this cry the lama snuff prodigiously in his excitement. 
but i know. the word ha come to me who be this holy one s disciple. there will rise a war a war of eight thousand redcoat. from pindi and peshawur they will be draw. this be sure. 
the boy ha hear bazar talk say the priest. 
but he be always by my side say the lama. how should he know. i do not know. 
he will make a clever juggler when the old man be dead mutter the priest to the headman. what new trick be this. 
a sign. give me a sign thunder the old soldier suddenly. if there be war my son would have tell me. 
when all be ready thy son doubt not will be tell. but it be a long road from thy son to the man in whose hand these thing lie. kim warm to the game for it remind him of experience in the letter carry line when for the sake of a few pice he pretend to know more than he know. but now he be play for large thing the sheer excitement and the sense of power. he draw a new breath and go on. 
old man give me a sign. do underling order the going of eight thousand redcoat with gun. 
no. still the old man answer a though kim be an equal. 
dost thou know who he be then that give the order. 
i have see him. 
to know again. 
i have know him since he be a lieutenant in the topkhana. the artillery. 
a tall man. a tall man with black hair walk thus. kim take a few pace in a stiff wooden style. 
ay. but that anyone may have see. the crowd be breathless still through all this talk. 
that be true say kim. but i will say more. look now. first the great man walk thus. then he think thus. kim draw a forefinger over his forehead and downwards till it come to rest by the angle of the jaw. anon he twitch his finger thus. anon he thrust his hat under his leave armpit. kim illustrate the motion and stand like a stork. 
the old man groan inarticulate with amazement. and the crowd shiver. 
so so so. but what doe he when he be about to give an order. 
he rub the skin at the back of his neck thus. then fall one finger on the table and he make a small sniff noise through his nose. then he speak say. loose such and such a regiment. call out such gun. 
the old man rise stiffly and salute. 
for kim translate into the vernacular the clinch sentence he have hear in the dress room at umballa for say he we should have do this long ago. it be not war it be a chastisement. snff. 
enough. i believe. i have see him thus in the smoke of battle. see and hear. it be he. 
i saw no smoke kim s voice shift to the rapt sing song of the wayside fortune teller. i saw this in darkness. first come a man to make thing clear. then come horseman. then come he stand in a ring of light. the rest follow a i have say. old man have i speak truth. 
it be he. past all doubt it be he. 
the crowd draw a long quaver breath star alternately at the old man still at attention and rag kim against the purple twilight. 
say i not say i not he be from the other world. cry the lama proudly. he be the friend of all the world. he be the friend of the star. 
at least it doe not concern u a man cry. o thou young soothsayer if the gift abide with thee at all season i have a red spot cow. she may be sister to thy bull for aught i know. 
or i care say kim. my star do not concern themselves with thy cattle. 
nay but she be very sick a woman strike in. my man be a buffalo or he would have choose his word good. tell me if she recover. 
have kim be at all an ordinary boy he would have carry on the play. but one doe not know lahore city and least of all the fakir by the taksali gate for thirteen year without also know human nature. 
the priest look at him sideways something bitterly a dry and blight smile. 
be there no priest then in the village. i think i have see a great one even now cry kim. 
ay but the woman begin. 
but thou and thy husband hop to get the cow cure for a handful of thank. the shoot tell. they be notoriously the close fisted couple in the village. it be not well to cheat the temple. give a young calf to thine own priest and unless thy god be angry past recall she will give milk within a month. 
a master beggar art thou purr the priest approvingly. not the cunning of forty year could have do good. surely thou hast make the old man rich. 
a little flour a little butter and a mouthful of cardamom kim retort flush with the praise but still cautious doe one grow rich on that. and a thou canst see he be mad. but it serf me while i learn the road at least. 
he know what the fakir of the taksali gate be like when they talk among themselves and copy the very inflection of their lewd disciple. 
be his search then truth or a cloak to other end. it may be treasure. 
he be mad many time mad. there be nothing else. 
here the old soldier bobble up and ask if kim would accept his hospitality for the night. the priest recommend him to do so but insist that the honour of entertain the lama belong to the temple at which the lama smile guilelessly. kim glance from one face to the other and draw his own conclusion. 
where be the money. he whisper beckon the old man off into the darkness. 
in my bosom. where else. 
give it me. quietly and swiftly give it me. 
but why. here be no ticket to buy. 
be i thy chela or be i not. do i not safeguard thy old foot about the way. give me the money and at dawn i will return it. he slip his hand above the lama s girdle and bring away the purse. 
be it so be it so. the old man nod his head. this be a great and terrible world. i never know there be so many men alive in it. 
next morning the priest be in a very bad temper but the lama be quite happy. and kim have enjoy a most interest even with the old man who bring out his cavalry sabre and balance it on his dry knee tell tale of the mutiny and young captain thirty year in their graf till kim drop off to sleep. 
certainly the air of this country be good say the lama. i sleep lightly a do all old men. but last night i sleep unwaking till broad day. even now i be heavy. 
drink a draught of hot milk say kim who have carry not a few such remedy to opium smoker of his acquaintance. it be time to take the road again. 
the long road that overpass all the river of hind say the lama gaily. let u go. but how thinkest thou chela to recompense these people and especially the priest for their great kindness. truly they be but parast but in other life maybe they will receive enlightenment. a rupee to the temple. the thing within be no more than stone and red paint but the heart of man we must acknowledge when and where it be good. 
holy one hast thou ever take the road alone. kim look up sharply like the indian crow so busy about the field. 
surely child. from kulu to pathankot from kulu where my first chela die. when men be kind to u we make offering and all men be well dispose throughout all the hill. 
it be otherwise in hind say kim drily. their god be many arm and malignant. let them alone. 
i would set thee on thy road for a little friend of all the world thou and thy yellow man. the old soldier amble up the village street all shadowy in the dawn on a punt scissor hock pony. last night break up the fountain of remembrance in my so dry heart and it be a a bless to me. truly there be war abroad in the air. i smell it. see. i have bring my sword. 
he sit long legged on the little beast with the big sword at his side hand drop on the pommel star fiercely over the flat land towards the north. tell me again how he show in thy vision. come up and sit behind me. the beast will carry two. 
i be this holy one s disciple say kim a they clear the village gate. the villager seem almost sorry to be rid of them but the priest s farewell be cold and distant. he have waste some opium on a man who carry no money. 
that be well speak. i be not much use to holy men but respect be always good. there be no respect in these day not even when a commissioner sahib come to see me. but why should one whose star lead him to war follow a holy man. 
but he be a holy man say kim earnestly. in truth and in talk and in act holy. he be not like the others. i have never see such an one. we be not fortune teller or juggler or beggar. 
thou art not. that i can see. but i do not know that other. he march well though. 
the first freshness of the day carry the lama forward with long easy camel like stride. he be deep in meditation mechanically click his rosary. 
they follow the rut and wear country road that wind across the flat between the great dark green mango grove the line of the snowcapped himalaya faint to the eastward. all india be at work in the field to the creak of well wheel the shout of plowman behind their cattle and the clamour of the crow. even the pony felt the good influence and almost break into a trot a kim lay a hand on the stirrup leather. 
it repent me that i do not give a rupee to the shrine say the lama on the last bead of his eighty one. 
the old soldier growl in his beard so that the lama for the first time be aware of him. 
seekest thou the river also. say he turn. 
the day be new be the reply. what need of a river save to water at before sundown. i come to show thee a short lane to the big road. 
that be a courtesy to be remember o man of good will. but why the sword. 
the old soldier look a abash a a child interrupt in his game of make believe. 
the sword he say fumble it. oh that be a fancy of mine an old man s fancy. truly the police order be that no man must bear weapon throughout hind but he cheer up and slap the hilt all the constabeels hereabout know me. 
it be not a good fancy say the lama. what profit to kill men. 
very little a i know. but if evil men be not now and then slay it would not be a good world for weaponless dreamer. i do not speak without knowledge who have see the land from delhi south awash with blood. 
what madness be that then. 
the god who send it for a plague alone know. a madness eat into all the army and they turn against their officer. that be the first evil but not past remedy if they have then hold their hand. but they choose to kill the sahib wife and child. then come the sahib from over the sea and call them to most strict account. 
some such rumour i believe reach me once long ago. they call it the black year a i remember. 
what manner of life hast thou lead not to know the year. a rumour indeed. all earth know and tremble. 
our earth never shake but once upon the day that the excellent one receive enlightenment. 
umph. i saw delhi shake at least and delhi be the navel of the world. 
so they turn against woman and child. that be a bad deed for which the punishment cannot be avoid. 
many strive to do so but with very small profit. i be then in a regiment of cavalry. it break. of six hundred and eighty sabre stand fast to their salt how many think you. three. of whom i be one. 
the great merit. 
merit. we do not consider it merit in those day. my people my friend my brother fell from me. they say. the time of the english be accomplish. let each strike out a little hold for himself. but i have talk with the men of sobraon of chilianwallah of moodkee and ferozeshah. i say. abide a little and the wind turn. there be no bless in this work. in those day i ride seventy mile with an english memsahib and her babe on my saddle bow. wow. that be a horse fit for a man. i place them in safety and back come i to my officer the one that be not kill of our five. give me work say i for i be an outcast among my own kind and my cousin s blood be wet on my sabre. be content say he. there be great work forward. when this madness be over there be a recompense. 
ay there be a recompense when the madness be over surely. the lama mutter half to himself. 
they do not hang medal in those day on all who by accident have hear a gun fire. no. in nineteen pitch battle be i. in six and forty skirmish of horse. and in small affair without number. nine wound i bear. a medal and four clasp and the medal of an order for my captain who be now general remember me when the kaisar i hind have accomplish fifty year of her reign and all the land rejoice. they say. give him the order of berittish india. i carry it upon my neck now. i have also my jaghir [holding] from the hand of the state a free gift to me and mine. the men of the old day they be now commissioner come rid to me through the crop high upon horse so that all the village see and we talk out the old skirmish one dead man s name lead to another. 
and after. say the lama. 
oh afterwards they go away but not before my village ha see. 
and at the last what wilt thou do. 
at the last i shall die. 
and after. 
let the god order it. i have never pester them with prayer. i do not think they will pester me. look you i have notice in my long life that those who eternally break in upon those above with complaint and report and bellowing and weeping be presently send for in haste a our colonel use to send for slack jaw down country men who talk too much. no i have never weary the god. they will remember this and give me a quiet place where i can drive my lance in the shade and wait to welcome my son. i have no le than three rissaldar major all in the regiment. 
and they likewise bind upon the wheel go forth from life to life from despair to despair say the lama below his breath hot uneasy snatch. 
ay the old soldier chuckle. three rissaldar major in three regiment. gambler a little but so be i. they must be well mount. and one cannot take the horse a in the old day one take woman. well well my hold can pay for all. how thinkest thou. it be a well water strip but my men cheat me. i do not know how to ask save at the lance s point. ugh. i grow angry and i curse them and they feign penitence but behind my back i know they call me a toothless old ape. 
hast thou never desire any other thing. 
yes yes a thousand time. a straight back and a close cling knee once more. a quick wrist and a keen eye. and the marrow that make a man. oh the old day the good day of my strength. 
that strength be weakness. 
it ha turn so. but fifty year since i could have prove it otherwise the old soldier retort drive his stirrup edge into the pony s lean flank. 
but i know a river of great heal. 
i have drink gunga water to the edge of dropsy. all she give me be a flux and no sort of strength. 
it be not gunga. the river that i know wash from all taint of sin. ascend the far bank one be assure of freedom. i do not know thy life but thy face be the face of the honourable and courteous. thou hast cling to thy way render fidelity when it be hard to give in that black year of which i now remember other tale. enter now upon the middle way which be the path to freedom. hear the most excellent law and do not follow dream. 
speak then old man the soldier smile half salute. we be all babbler at our age. 
the lama squat under the shade of a mango whose shadow play checkerwise over his face. the soldier sit stiffly on the pony. and kim make sure that there be no snake lay down in the crotch of the twist root. 
there be a drowsy buzz of small life in hot sunshine a coo of dove and a sleepy drone of well wheel across the field. slowly and impressively the lama begin. at the end of ten minute the old soldier slide from his pony to hear good a he say and sit with the rein round his wrist. the lama s voice falter the period lengthen. kim be busy watch a grey squirrel. when the little scold bunch of fur close press to the branch disappear preacher and audience be fast asleep the old officer s strong cut head pillow on his arm the lama s throw back against the tree bole where it show like yellow ivory. a naked child toddle up star and move by some quick impulse of reverence make a solemn little obeisance before the lama only the child be so short and fat that it topple over sideways and kim laugh at the sprawl chubby leg. the child scar and indignant yell aloud. 
hai. hai. say the soldier leap to his foot. what be it. what order. it be. a child. i dream it be an alarm. little one little one do not cry. have i sleep. that be discourteous indeed. 
i fear. i be afraid. roar the child. 
what be it to fear. two old men and a boy. how wilt thou ever make a soldier princeling. 
the lama have wake too but take no direct notice of the child click his rosary. 
what be that. say the child stop a yell midway. i have never see such thing. give them me. 
aha. say the lama smile and trail a loop of it on the grass. 
this be a handful of cardamom this be a lump of ghi. this be millet and chilli and rice a supper for thee and me. 
the child shriek with joy and snatch at the dark glance bead. 
oho. say the old soldier. whence hadst thou that song despiser of this world. 
i learn it in pathankot sit on a doorstep say the lama shyly. it be good to be kind to babe. 
a i remember before the sleep come on u thou hadst tell me that marriage and bear be darkeners of the true light stumble block upon the way. do child drop from heaven in thy country. be it the way to sing them song. 
no man be all perfect say the lama gravely recoil the rosary. run now to thy mother little one. 
hear him. say the soldier to kim. he be ashamed for that he ha make a child happy. there be a very good householder lose in thee my brother. hai child. he throw it a pice. sweetmeat be always sweet. and a the little figure caper away into the sunshine. they grow up and become men. holy one i grieve that i sleep in the midst of thy preach. forgive me. 
we be two old men say the lama. the fault be mine. i listen to thy talk of the world and it madness and one fault lead to the next. 
hear him. what harm do thy god suffer from play with a babe. and that song be very well sing. let u go on and i will sing thee the song of nikal seyn before delhi the old song. 
and they fare out from the gloom of the mango tope the old man s high shrill voice ring across the field a wail by long draw wail he unfold the story of nikal seyn [nicholson] the song that men sing in the punjab to this day. kim be delight and the lama listen with deep interest. 
ahi. nikal seyn be dead he die before delhi. lance of the north take vengeance for nikal seyn. he quaver it out to the end mark the trill with the flat of his sword on the pony s rump. 
and now we come to the big road say he after receive the compliment of kim. for the lama be markedly silent. it be long since i have ride this way but thy boy s talk stir me. see holy one the great road which be the backbone of all hind. for the most part it be shade a here with four line of tree. the middle road all hard take the quick traffic. in the day before rail carriage the sahib travel up and down here in hundred. now there be only country cart and such like. leave and right be the rough road for the heavy cart grain and cotton and timber fodder lime and hide. a man go in safety here for at every few kos be a police station. the police be thief and extortioner. i myself would patrol it with cavalry young recruit under a strong captain. but at least they do not suffer any rival. all caste and kind of men move here. 
look. brahmin and chumars banker and tinker barber and bunnias pilgrim and potter all the world go and come. it be to me a a river from which i be withdraw like a log after a flood. 
and truly the grand trunk road be a wonderful spectacle. it run straight bear without crowd india s traffic for fifteen hundred mile such a river of life a nowhere else exist in the world. they look at the green arch shade fleck length of it the white breadth speckle with slow pace folk. and the two room police station opposite. 
who bear arm against the law. a constable call out laughingly a he catch sight of the soldier s sword. be not the police enough to destroy evil doer. 
it be because of the police i buy it be the answer. doe all go well in hind. 
rissaldar sahib all go well. 
i be like an old tortoise look you who put his head out from the bank and draw it in again. ay this be the road of hindustan. all men come by this way. 
son of a swine be the soft part of the road mean for thee to scratch thy back upon. father of all the daughter of shame and husband of ten thousand virtueless one thy mother be devote to a devil be lead thereto by her mother. thy aunt have never have a nose for seven generation. thy sister what owl s folly tell thee to draw thy cart across the road. a break wheel. then take a break head and put the two together at leisure. 
the voice and a venomous whip crack come out of a pillar of dust fifty yard away where a cart have break down. a thin high kathiawar mare with eye and nostril aflame rocket out of the jam snort and wince a her rider bend her across the road in chase of a shout man. he be tall and grey beard sit the almost mad beast a a piece of her and scientifically lash his victim between plunge. 
the old man s face light with pride. my child. say he briefly and strive to rein the pony s neck to a fit arch. 
be i to be beat before the police. cry the carter. justice. i will have justice. 
be i to be block by a shout ape who upset ten thousand sack under a young horse s nose. that be the way to ruin a mare. 
he speak truth. he speak truth. but she follow her man close say the old man. the carter run under the wheel of his cart and thence threaten all sort of vengeance. 
they be strong men thy son say the policeman serenely pick his teeth. 
the horseman deliver one last vicious cut with his whip and come on at a canter. 
my father. he reign back ten yard and dismount. 
the old man be off his pony in an instant and they embrace a do father and son in the east. 
chapter. 
good luck she be never a lady but the cursed quean alive tricksy wince and jady kittle to lead or drive. greet her she s hail a strange. meet her she s busk to leave. let her alone for a shrew to the bone and the hussy come pluck your sleeve. largesse. largesse o fortune. give or hold at your will. if i ve no care for fortune fortune must follow me still. 
the wish cap. 
then lower their voice they speak together. kim come to rest under a tree but the lama tug impatiently at his elbow. 
let u go on. the river be not here. 
hai mai. have we not walk enough for a little. our river will not run away. patience and he will give u a dole. 
this. say the old soldier suddenly be the friend of the star. he bring me the news yesterday. have see the very man himself in a vision give order for the war. 
hm. say his son all deep in his broad chest. he come by a bazar rumour and make profit of it. 
his father laugh. at least he do not ride to me beg for a new charger and the god know how many rupee. be thy brother regiment also under order. 
i do not know. i take leave and come swiftly to thee in case. 
in case they run before thee to beg. o gambler and spendthrift all. but thou hast never yet ride in a charge. a good horse be need there truly. a good follower and a good pony also for the march. let u see let u see. he thrum on the pommel. 
this be no place to cast account in my father. let u go to thy house. 
at least pay the boy then. i have no pice with me and he bring auspicious news. ho. friend of all the world a war be toward a thou hast say. 
nay a i know the war return kim composedly. 
eh. say the lama finger his bead all eager for the road. 
my master doe not trouble the star for hire. we bring the news bear witness we bring the news and now we go. kim half crook his hand at his side. 
the son toss a silver coin through the sunlight grumble something about beggar and juggler. it be a four anna piece and would fee them well for day. the lama see the flash of the metal drone a bless. 
go thy way friend of all the world pip the old soldier wheel his scrawny mount. for once in all my day i have meet a true prophet who be not in the army. 
father and son swing round together. the old man sit a erect a the young. 
a punjabi constable in yellow linen trouser slouch across the road. he have see the money pas. 
halt. he cry in impressive english. know ye not that there be a takkus of two anna a head which be four anna on those who enter the road from this side road. it be the order of the sirkar and the money be spend for the plant of tree and the beautification of the way. 
and the belly of the police say kim slip out of arm s reach. consider for a while man with a mud head. think you we come from the near pond like the frog thy father in law. hast thou ever hear the name of thy brother. 
and who be he. leave the boy alone cry a senior constable immensely delight a he squat down to smoke his pipe in the veranda. 
he take a label from a bottle of belaitee pani [soda water] and affix it to a bridge collect tax for a month from those who pass say that it be the sirkar s order. then come an englishman and break his head. ah brother i be a town crow not a village crow. 
the policeman draw back abash and kim hoot at him all down the road. 
be there ever such a disciple a i. he cry merrily to the lama. all earth would have pick thy bone within ten mile of lahore city if i have not guard thee. 
i consider in my own mind whether thou art a spirit sometimes or sometimes an evil imp say the lama smile slowly. 
i be thy chela. kim drop into step at his side that indescribable gait of the long distance tramp all the world over. 
now let u walk mutter the lama and to the click of his rosary they walk in silence mile upon mile. the lama a usual be deep in meditation but kim s bright eye be open wide. this broad smile river of life he consider be a vast improvement on the cramp and crowd lahore street. there be new people and new sight at every stride caste he know and caste that be altogether out of his experience. 
they meet a troop of long haired strong scent sansis with basket of lizard and other unclean food on their back their lean dog sniff at their heel. these people keep their own side of the road move at a quick furtive jog trot and all other caste give them ample room. for the sansi be deep pollution. behind them walk wide and stiffly across the strong shadow the memory of his leg iron still on him stride one newly release from the jail. his full stomach and shiny skin to prove that the government feed it prisoner good than most honest men could fee themselves. kim know that walk well and make broad jest of it a they pass. then an akali a wild eye wild haired sikh devotee in the blue check clothe of his faith with polish steel quoit glisten on the cone of his tall blue turban stalk past return from a visit to one of the independent sikh state where he have be sing the ancient glory of the khalsa to college train princeling in top boot and white cord breech. kim be careful not to irritate that man. for the akali s temper be short and his arm quick. here and there they meet or be overtake by the gaily dress crowd of whole village turn out to some local fair. the woman with their babe on their hip walk behind the men the old boy prance on stick of sugar cane drag rude brass model of locomotive such a they sell for a halfpenny or flash the sun into the eye of their better from cheap toy mirror. one could see at a glance what each have buy. and if there be any doubt it need only to watch the wife compare brown arm against brown arm the newly purchase dull glass bracelet that come from the north west. these merry maker step slowly call one to the other and stop to haggle with sweetmeat seller or to make a prayer before one of the wayside shrine sometimes hindu sometimes mussalman which the low caste of both creed share with beautiful impartiality. a solid line of blue rise and fall like the back of a caterpillar in haste would swing up through the quiver dust and trot past to a chorus of quick cackle. that be a gang of changars the woman who have take all the embankment of all the northern railway under their charge a flat foot big bosom strong limbed blue petticoated clan of earth carrier hurry north on news of a job and waste no time by the road. they belong to the caste whose men do not count and they walk with square elbow swing hip and head on high a suit woman who carry heavy weight. a little late a marriage procession would strike into the grand trunk with music and shouting and a smell of marigold and jasmine strong even than the reek of the dust. one could see the bride s litter a blur of red and tinsel stagger through the haze while the bridegroom s bewreathed pony turn aside to snatch a mouthful from a pass fodder cart. then kim would join the kentish fire of good wish and bad joke wish the couple a hundred son and no daughter a the say be. still more interest and more to be shout over it be when a stroll juggler with some half train monkey or a pant feeble bear or a woman who tie goat horn to her foot and with these dance on a slack rope set the horse to shy and the woman to shrill long draw quaver of amazement. 
the lama never raise his eye. he do not note the money lender on his goose rumped pony hasten along to collect the cruel interest. or the long shout deep voice little mob still in military formation of native soldier on leave rejoice to be rid of their breech and puttee and say the most outrageous thing to the most respectable woman in sight. even the seller of gang water he do not see and kim expect that he would at least buy a bottle of that precious stuff. he look steadily at the grind and stride a steadily hour after hour his soul busy elsewhere. but kim be in the seventh heaven of joy. the grand trunk at this point be build on an embankment to guard against winter flood from the foothill so that one walk a it be a little above the country along a stately corridor see all india spread out to leave and right. it be beautiful to behold the many yoke grain and cotton wagon crawl over the country road. one could hear their axle complain a mile away come near till with shout and yell and bad word they climb up the steep incline and plunge on to the hard main road carter revile carter. it be equally beautiful to watch the people little clump of red and blue and pink and white and saffron turn aside to go to their own village disperse and grow small by two and three across the level plain. kim felt these thing though he could not give tongue to his feeling and so content himself with buy peel sugar cane and spit the pith generously about his path. from time to time the lama take snuff and at last kim could endure the silence no long. 
this be a good land the land of the south. say he. the air be good. the water be good. eh. 
and they be all bind upon the wheel say the lama. bind from life after life. to none of these ha the way be show. he shake himself back to this world. 
and now we have walk a weary way say kim. surely we shall soon come to a parao [a rest place]. shall we stay there. look the sun be slop. 
who will receive u this even. 
that be all one. this country be full of good folk. besides he sink his voice beneath a whisper we have money. 
the crowd thicken a they near the rest place which mark the end of their day s journey. a line of stall sell very simple food and tobacco a stack of firewood a police station a well a horse trough a few tree and under them some trample grind dot with the black ash of old fire be all that mark a parao on the grand trunk. if you except the beggar and the crow both hungry. 
by this time the sun be drive broad golden spoke through the low branch of the mango tree. the parakeet and dove be come home in their hundred. the chatter grey back seven sister talk over the day s adventure walk back and forth in two and three almost under the foot of the traveller. and shuffling and scuffle in the branch show that the bat be ready to go out on the night picket. swiftly the light gather itself together paint for an instant the face and the cartwheel and the bullock horn a red a blood. then the night fell change the touch of the air draw a low even haze like a gossamer veil of blue across the face of the country and bring out keen and distinct the smell of wood smoke and cattle and the good scent of wheaten cake cook on ash. the even patrol hurry out of the police station with important coughing and reiterate order. and a live charcoal ball in the cup of a wayside carter s hookah glow red while kim s eye mechanically watch the last flicker of the sun on the brass tweezer. 
the life of the parao be very like that of the kashmir serai on a small scale. kim dive into the happy asiatic disorder which if you only allow time will bring you everything that a simple man need. 
his want be few because since the lama have no caste scruple cook food from the near stall would serve. but for luxury s sake kim buy a handful of dung cake to build a fire. all about come and go round the little flame men cry for oil or grain or sweetmeat or tobacco jostle one another while they wait their turn at the well. and under the men s voice you hear from halt shutter cart the high squeal and giggle of woman whose face should not be see in public. 
nowadays well educate native be of opinion that when their womenfolk travel and they visit a good deal it be good to take them quickly by rail in a properly screen compartment. and that custom be spread. but there be always those of the old rock who hold by the use of their forefather. and above all there be always the old woman more conservative than the men who toward the end of their day go on a pilgrimage. they be wither and undesirable do not under certain circumstance object to unveil. after their long seclusion during which they have always be in business touch with a thousand outside interest they love the bustle and stir of the open road the gathering at the shrine and the infinite possibility of gossip with like mind dowager. very often it suit a longsuffering family that a strong tongue iron will old lady should disport herself about india in this fashion. for certainly pilgrimage be grateful to the god. so all about india in the most remote place a in the most public you find some knot of grizzle servitor in nominal charge of an old lady who be more or le curtain and hide away in a bullock cart. such men be staid and discreet and when a european or a high caste native be near will net their charge with most elaborate precaution. but in the ordinary haphazard chance of pilgrimage the precaution be not take. the old lady be after all intensely human and life to look upon life. 
kim mark down a gaily ornament ruth or family bullock cart with a broider canopy of two dome like a double hump camel which have just be draw into the par. eight men make it retinue and two of the eight be arm with rusty sabre sure sign that they follow a person of distinction for the common folk do not bear arm. an increase cackle of complaint order and jest and what to a european would have be bad language come from behind the curtain. here be evidently a woman use to command. 
kim look over the retinue critically. half of them be thin legged grey beard ooryas from down country. the other half be duffle clothe felt hat hillmen of the north. and that mixture tell it own tale even if he have not overhear the incessant spar between the two division. the old lady be go south on a visit probably to a rich relative most probably to a son in law who have send up an escort a a mark of respect. the hillmen would be of her own people kulu or kangra folk. it be quite clear that she be not take her daughter down to be wed or the curtain would have be lace home and the guard would have allow no one near the car. a merry and a high spirit dame think kim balance the dung cake in one hand the cook food in the other and pilot the lama with a nudge shoulder. something might be make out of the meet. the lama would give him no help but a a conscientious chela kim be delight to beg for two. 
he build his fire a close to the cart a he dare wait for one of the escort to order him away. the lama drop wearily to the grind much a a heavy fruit eat bat cower and return to his rosary. 
stand farther off beggar. the order be shout in break hindustani by one of the hillmen. 
huh. it be only a pahari [a hillman] say kim over his shoulder. since when have the hill ass own all hindustan. 
the retort be a swift and brilliant sketch of kim s pedigree for three generation. 
ah. kim s voice be sweet than ever a he break the dung cake into fit piece. in my country we call that the begin of love talk. 
a harsh thin cackle behind the curtain put the hillman on his mettle for a second shoot. 
not so bad not so bad say kim with calm. but have a care my brother l we we i say be mind to give a curse or so in return. and our curse have the knack of bite home. 
the ooryas laugh. the hillman spring forward threateningly. the lama suddenly raise his head bring his huge tam o shanter hat into the full light of kim s new start fire. 
what be it. say he. 
the man halt a though strike to stone. i i be save from a great sin he stammer. 
the foreigner ha find him a priest at last whisper one of the ooryas. 
hai. why be that beggar brat not well beat. the old woman cry. 
the hillman draw back to the cart and whisper something to the curtain. there be dead silence then a mutter. 
this go well think kim pretend neither to see nor hear. 
when when he ha eat the hillman fawn on kim it it be request that the holy one will do the honour to talk to one who would speak to him. 
after he ha eat he will sleep kim return loftily. he could not quite see what new turn the game have take but stand resolute to profit by it. now i will get him his food. the last sentence speak loudly end with a sigh a of faintness. 
i i myself and the others of my people will look to that if it be permit. 
it be permit say kim more loftily than ever. holy one these people will bring u food. 
the land be good. all the country of the south be good a great and a terrible world mumble the lama drowsily. 
let him sleep say kim but look to it that we be well feed when he wake. he be a very holy man. 
again one of the ooryas say something contemptuously. 
he be not a fakir. he be not a down country beggar kim go on severely address the star. he be the most holy of holy men. he be above all caste. i be his chela. 
come here. say the flat thin voice behind the curtain. and kim come conscious that eye he could not see be star at him. one skinny brown finger heavy with ring lay on the edge of the cart and the talk go this way. 
who be that one. 
an exceedingly holy one. he come from far off. he come from tibet. 
where in tibet. 
from behind the snow from a very far place. he know the star. he make horoscope. he read nativity. but he doe not do this for money. he doe it for kindness and great charity. i be his disciple. i be call also the friend of the star. 
thou art no hillman. 
ask him. he will tell thee i be send to him from the star to show him an end to his pilgrimage. 
humph. consider brat that i be an old woman and not altogether a fool. lama i know and to these i give reverence but thou art no more a lawful chela than this my finger be the pole of this wagon. thou art a casteless hindu a bold and unblushing beggar attach belike to the holy one for the sake of gain. 
do we not all work for gain. kim change his tone promptly to match that alter voice. i have hear this be a bow draw at a venture i have hear. 
what hast thou hear. she snap rap with the finger. 
nothing that i well remember but some talk in the bazar which be doubtless a lie that even rajah small hill rajah. 
but none the le of good rajput blood. 
assuredly of good blood. that these even sell the more comely of their womenfolk for gain. down south they sell them to zemindars and such all of oudh. 
if there be one thing in the world that the small hill rajah deny it be just this charge. but it happen to be one thing that the bazar believe when they discus the mysterious slave traffic of india. the old lady explain to kim in a tense indignant whisper precisely what manner and fashion of malignant liar he be. have kim hint this when she be a girl he would have be pommel to death that same even by an elephant. this be perfectly true. 
ahai. i be only a beggar s brat a the eye of beauty ha say he wail in extravagant terror. 
eye of beauty forsooth. who be i that thou shouldst fling beggar endearment at me. and yet she laugh at the long forget word. forty year ago that might have be say and not without truth. ay. thirty year ago. but it be the fault of this gad up and down hind that a king s widow must jostle all the scum of the land and be make a mock by beggar. 
great queen say kim promptly for he hear her shake with indignation i be even what the great queen say i be. but none the le be my master holy. he ha not yet hear the great queen s order that. 
order. i order a holy one a teacher of the law to come and speak to a woman. never. 
pity my stupidity. i think it be give a an order. 
it be not. it be a petition. doe this make all clear. 
a silver coin click on the edge of the cart. kim take it and salaam profoundly. the old lady recognize that a the eye and the ear of the lama he be to be propitiate. 
i be but the holy one s disciple. when he ha eat perhaps he will come. 
oh villain and shameless rogue. the jewel forefinger shake itself at him reprovingly. but he could hear the old lady s chuckle. 
nay what be it. he say drop into his most caress and confidential tone the one he well know that few could resist. be be there any need of a son in thy family. speak freely for we priest that last be a direct plagiarism from a fakir by the taksali gate. 
we priest. thou art not yet old enough to she check the joke with another laugh. believe me now and again we woman o priest think of other matter than son. moreover my daughter ha bear her man child. 
two arrow in the quiver be good than one. and three be good still. kim quote the proverb with a meditative cough look discreetly earthward. 
true oh true. but perhaps that will come. certainly those down country brahmin be utterly useless. i send gift and monies and gift again to them and they prophesy. 
ah drawl kim with infinite contempt they prophesy. a professional could have do no good. 
and it be not till i remember my own god that my prayer be hear. i choose an auspicious hour and perhaps thy holy one ha hear of the abbot of the lung cho lamassery. it be to him i put the matter and behold in the due time all come about a i desire. the brahmin in the house of the father of my daughter s son ha since say that it be through his prayer which be a little error that i will explain to him when we reach our journey s end. and so afterwards i go to buddh gaya to make shraddha for the father of my child. 
thither go we. 
doubly auspicious chirrup the old lady. a second son at least. 
o friend of all the world. the lama have wake and simply a a child bewilder in a strange bed call for kim. 
i come. i come holy one. he dash to the fire where he find the lama already surround by dish of food the hillmen visibly adore him and the southerner look sourly. 
go back. withdraw. kim cry. do we eat publicly like dog. they finish the meal in silence each turn a little from the other and kim top it with a native make cigarette. 
have i not say an hundred time that the south be a good land. here be a virtuous and high bear widow of a hill rajah on pilgrimage she say to buddha gay. she it be send u those dish. and when thou art well rest she would speak to thee. 
be this also thy work. the lama dip deep into his snuff gourd. 
who else watch over thee since our wonderful journey begin. kim s eye dance in his head a he blow the rank smoke through his nostril and stretch him on the dusty grind. have i fail to oversee thy comfort holy one. 
a bless on thee. the lama incline his solemn head. i have know many men in my so long life and disciple not a few. but to none among men if so be thou art woman bear ha my heart go out a it ha to thee thoughtful wise and courteous. but something of a small imp. 
and i have never see such a priest a thou. kim consider the benevolent yellow face wrinkle by wrinkle. it be le than three day since we take the road together and it be a though it be a hundred year. 
perhaps in a former life it be permit that i should have render thee some service. maybe he smile i free thee from a trap. or have catch thee on a hook in the day when i be not enlighten cast thee back into the river. 
maybe say kim quietly. he have hear this sort of speculation again and again from the mouth of many whom the english would not consider imaginative. now a regard that woman in the bullock cart. i think she need a second son for her daughter. 
that be no part of the way sigh the lama. but at least she be from the hill. ah the hill and the snow of the hill. 
he rise and stalk to the cart. kim would have give his ear to come too but the lama do not invite him. and the few word he catch be in an unknown tongue for they speak some common speech of the mountain. the woman seem to ask question which the lama turn over in his mind before answer. now and again he hear the singsong cadence of a chinese quotation. it be a strange picture that kim watch between droop eyelid. the lama very straight and erect the deep fold of his yellow clothe slash with black in the light of the parao fire precisely a a knot tree trunk be slash with the shadow of the low sun address a tinsel and lacquer ruth which burn like a many colour jewel in the same uncertain light. the pattern on the gold work curtain run up and down melt and reform a the fold shake and quiver to the night wind. and when the talk grow more earnest the jewel forefinger snap out little spark of light between the embroidery. behind the cart be a wall of uncertain darkness speckle with little flame and alive with half catch form and face and shadow. the voice of early even have settle down to one soothe hum whose deep note be the steady chumping of the bullock above their chop straw and whose high be the tinkle of a bengali dance girl s sitar. most men have eat and pull deep at their gurgle grunt hookah which in full blast sound like bull frog. 
at last the lama return. a hillman walk behind him with a wad cotton quilt and spread it carefully by the fire. 
she deserve ten thousand grandchild think kim. none the le but for me those gift would not have come. 
a virtuous woman and a wise one. the lama slacken off joint by joint like a slow camel. the world be full of charity to those who follow the way. he fling a fair half of the quilt over kim. 
and what say she. kim roll up in his share of it. 
she ask me many question and propound many problem the most of which be idle tale which she have hear from devil serve priest who pretend to follow the way. some i answer and some i say be foolish. many wear the robe but few keep the way. 
true. that be true. kim use the thoughtful conciliatory tone of those who wish to draw confidence. 
but by her light she be most right mind. she desire greatly that we should go with her to buddh gaya. her road be ours a i understand for many day journey to the southward. 
and. 
patience a little. to this i say that my search come before all thing. she have hear many foolish legend but this great truth of my river she have never hear. such be the priest of the low hill. she know the abbot of lung cho but she do not know of my river nor the tale of the arrow. 
and. 
i speak therefore of the search and of the way and of matter that be profitable. she desire only that i should accompany her and make prayer for a second son. 
aha. we woman do not think of anything save child say kim sleepily. 
now since our road run together for a while i do not see that we in any way depart from our search if so be we accompany her at least a far a i have forget the name of the city. 
ohe. say kim turn and speak in a sharp whisper to one of the ooryas a few yard away. where be your master s house. 
a little behind saharunpore among the fruit garden. he name the village. 
that be the place say the lama. so far at least we can go with her. 
fly go to carrion say the oorya in an abstract voice. 
for the sick cow a crow. for the sick man a brahmin. kim breathe the proverb impersonally to the shadow top of the tree overhead. 
the oorya grunt and hold his peace. 
so then we go with her holy one. 
be there any reason against. i can still step aside and try all the river that the road overpass. she desire that i should come. she very greatly desire it. 
kim stifle a laugh in the quilt. when once that imperious old lady have recover from her natural awe of a lama he think it probable that she would be worth listen to. 
he be nearly asleep when the lama suddenly quote a proverb. the husband of the talkative have a great reward hereafter. then kim hear him snuff thrice and doze off still laugh. 
the diamond bright dawn wake men and crow and bullock together. kim sit up and yawn shake himself and thrill with delight. this be see the world in real truth. this be life a he would have it bustle and shout the buckle of belt and beat of bullock and creak of wheel light of fire and cook of food and new sight at every turn of the approve eye. the morning mist sweep off in a whorl of silver the parrot shoot away to some distant river in shriek green host. all the well wheel within ear shoot go to work. india be awake and kim be in the middle of it more awake and more excite than anyone chew on a twig that he would presently use a a toothbrush. for he borrow right and leave handedly from all the custom of the country he know and love. there be no need to worry about food no need to spend a cowrie at the crowd stall. he be the disciple of a holy man annex by a strong will old lady. all thing would be prepare for them and when they be respectfully invite so to do they would sit and eat. for the rest kim giggle here a he clean his teeth his host would rather heighten the enjoyment of the road. he inspect her bullock critically a they come up grunt and blow under the yoke. if they go too fast it be not likely there would be a pleasant seat for himself along the pole. the lama would sit beside the driver. the escort of course would walk. the old lady equally of course would talk a great deal and by what he have hear that conversation would not lack salt. she be already order harangue rebuke and it must be say curse her servant for delay. 
get her her pipe. in the name of the god get her her pipe and stop her ill omen mouth cry an oorya tie up his shapeless bundle of bed. she and the parrot be alike. they screech in the dawn. 
the lead bullock. hai. look to the lead bullock. they be back and wheel a a grain cart s axle catch them by the horn. son of an owl where dost thou go. this to the grin carter. 
ai. yai. yai. that within there be the queen of delhi go to pray for a son the man call back over his high load. room for the queen of delhi and her prime minister the grey monkey climb up his own sword. another cart load with bark for a down country tannery follow close behind and it driver add a few compliment a the ruth bullock back and back again. 
from behind the shake curtain come one volley of invective. it do not last long but in kind and quality in blister bite appropriateness it be beyond anything that even kim have hear. he could see the carter s bare chest collapse with amazement a the man salaam reverently to the voice leap from the pole and help the escort haul their volcano on to the main road. here the voice tell him truthfully what sort of wife he have wed and what she be do in his absence. 
oh shabash. murmur kim unable to contain himself a the man slink away. 
well do indeed. it be a shame and a scandal that a poor woman may not go to make prayer to her god except she be jostle and insult by all the refuse of hindustan that she must eat gali [abuse] a men eat ghi. but i have yet a wag leave to my tongue a word or two well speak that serf the occasion. and still be i without my tobacco. who be the one eye and luckless son of shame that ha not yet prepare my pipe. 
it be hastily thrust in by a hillman and a trickle of thick smoke from each corner of the curtain show that peace be restore. 
if kim have walk proudly the day before disciple of a holy man today he pace with tenfold pride in the train of a semi royal procession with a recognize place under the patronage of an old lady of charm manner and infinite resource. the escort their head tie up native fashion fell in on either side the cart shuffle enormous cloud of dust. 
the lama and kim walk a little to one side. kim chew his stick of sugarcane and make way for no one under the status of a priest. they could hear the old lady s tongue clack a steadily a a rice husker. she bid the escort tell her what be go on on the road. and so soon a they be clear of the parao she fling back the curtain and peer out her veil a third across her face. her men do not eye her directly when she address them and thus the propriety be more or le observe. 
a dark sallowish district superintendent of police faultlessly uniform an englishman trot by on a tire horse and see from her retinue what manner of person she be chaff her. 
o mother he cry do they do this in the zenanas. suppose an englishman come by and saw that thou hast no nose. 
what. she shrill back. thine own mother ha no nose. why say so then on the open road. 
it be a fair counter. the englishman throw up his hand with the gesture of a man hit at sword play. she laugh and nod. 
be this a face to tempt virtue aside. she withdraw all her veil and star at him. 
it be by no mean lovely but a the man gather up his rein he call it a moon of paradise a disturber of integrity and a few other fantastic epithet which double her up with mirth. 
that be a nut cut [rogue] she say. all police constable be nut cut. but the police wallah be the bad. hai my son thou hast never learn all that since thou camest from belait [europe]. who suckle thee. 
a pahareen a hillwoman of dalhousie my mother. keep thy beauty under a shade o dispenser of delight and he be go. 
these be the sort she take a fine judicial tone and stuff her mouth with pan these be the sort to oversee justice. they know the land and the custom of the land. the others all new from europe suckle by white woman and learn our tongue from book be bad than the pestilence. they do harm to king. then she tell a long long tale to the world at large of an ignorant young policeman who have disturb some small hill rajah a ninth cousin of her own in the matter of a trivial land case wind up with a quotation from a work by no mean devotional. 
then her mood change and she bid one of the escort ask whether the lama would walk alongside and discus matter of religion. so kim drop back into the dust and return to his sugar cane. for an hour or more the lama s tam o shanter show like a moon through the haze. and from all he hear kim gather that the old woman weep. one of the ooryas half apologize for his rudeness overnight say that he have never know his mistress of so bland a temper and he ascribe it to the presence of the strange priest. personally he believe in brahmin though like all native he be acutely aware of their cunning and their greed. still when brahmin but irritate with beg demand the mother of his master s wife and when she send them away so angry that they curse the whole retinue. which be the real reason of the second off side bullock go lame and of the pole break the night before. he be prepare to accept any priest of any other denomination in or out of india. to this kim assent with wise nod and bid the oorya observe that the lama take no money and that the cost of his and kim s food would be repay a hundred time in the good luck that would attend the caravan henceforward. he also tell story of lahore city and sing a song or two which make the escort laugh. a a town mouse well acquaint with the late song by the most fashionable composer they be woman for the most part kim have a distinct advantage over men from a little fruit village behind saharunpore but he let that advantage be infer. 
at noon they turn aside to eat and the meal be good plentiful and well serve on plate of clean leaf in decency out of drift of the dust. they give the scrap to certain beggar that all requirement might be fulfil and sit down to a long luxurious smoke. the old lady have retreat behind her curtain but mix most freely in the talk her servant argue with and contradict her a servant do throughout the east. she compare the cool and the pine of the kangra and kulu hill with the dust and the mango of the south. she tell a tale of some old local god at the edge of her husband s territory. she roundly abuse the tobacco which she be then smoke revile all brahmin and speculate without reserve on the come of many grandson. 
chapter. 
here come i to my own again feed forgive and know again claim by bone of my bone again and sib to flesh of my flesh. the fat calf be dress for me but the husk have great zest for me. i think my pig will be best for me so i m off to the stye afresh. 
the prodigal son. 
once more the lazy string tie shuffle procession get under way and she sleep till they reach the next halt stage. it be a very short march and time lack an hour to sundown so kim cast about for mean of amusement. 
but why not sit and rest. say one of the escort. only the devil and the english walk to and fro without reason. 
never make friend with the devil a monkey or a boy. no man know what they will do next say his fellow. 
kim turn a scornful back he do not want to hear the old story how the devil play with the boy and repent of it and walk idly across country. 
the lama stride after him. all that day whenever they pass a stream he have turn aside to look at it but in no case have he receive any warn that he have find his river. insensibly too the comfort of speak to someone in a reasonable tongue and of be properly consider and respect a her spiritual adviser by a well bear woman have wean his thought a little from the search. and further he be prepare to spend serene year in his quest. have nothing of the white man s impatience but a great faith. 
where go thou. he call after kim. 
nowhither it be a small march and all this kim wave his hand abroad be new to me. 
she be beyond question a wise and a discern woman. but it be hard to meditate when. 
all woman be thus. kim speak a might have solomon. 
before the lamassery be a broad platform the lama mutter loop up the well wear rosary of stone. on that i have leave the mark of my foot pace to and fro with these. 
he click the bead and begin the om mane pudme hum s of his devotion. grateful for the cool the quiet and the absence of dust. 
one thing after another draw kim s idle eye across the plain. there be no purpose in his wandering except that the build of the hut near by seem new and he wish to investigate. 
they come out on a broad tract of graze grind brown and purple in the afternoon light with a heavy clump of mango in the centre. it strike kim a curious that no shrine stand in so eligible a spot. the boy be observe a any priest for these thing. far across the plain walk side by side four men make small by the distance. he look intently under his curve palm and catch the sheen of brass. 
soldier. white soldier. say he. let u see. 
it be always soldier when thou and i go out alone together. but i have never see the white soldier. 
they do no harm except when they be drink. keep behind this tree. 
they step behind the thick trunk in the cool dark of the mango tope. two little figure halt. the other two come forward uncertainly. they be the advance party of a regiment on the march send out a usual to mark the camp. they bore five foot stick with flutter flag and call to each other a they spread over the flat earth. 
at last they enter the mango grove walk heavily. 
it s here or hereabouts officer tent under the tree i take it an the rest of u can stay outside. have they mark out for the baggage wagon behind. 
they cry again to their comrade in the distance and the rough answer come back faint and mellow. 
shove the flag in here then say one. 
what do they prepare. say the lama wonderstruck. this be a great and terrible world. what be the device on the flag. 
a soldier thrust a stave within a few foot of them grunt discontentedly pull it up again confer with his companion who look up and down the shade cave of greenery and return it. 
kim star with all his eye his breath come short and sharp between his teeth. the soldier stamp off into the sunshine. 
o holy one. he gasp. my horoscope. the draw in the dust by the priest at umballa. remember what he say. first come two ferashes to make all thing ready in a dark place a it be always at the begin of a vision. 
but this be not vision say the lama. it be the world s illusion and no more. 
and after them come the bull the red bull on the green field. look. it be he. 
he point to the flag that be snap snap in the even breeze not ten foot away. it be no more than an ordinary camp mark flag. but the regiment always punctilious in matter of millinery have charge it with the regimental device the red bull which be the crest of the maverick the great red bull on a background of irish green. 
i see and now i remember. say the lama. certainly it be thy bull. certainly also the two men come to make all ready. 
they be soldier white soldier. what say the priest. the sign over against the bull be the sign of war and arm men. holy one this thing touch my search. 
true. it be true. the lama star fixedly at the device that flame like a ruby in the dusk. the priest at umballa say that thine be the sign of war. 
what be to do now. 
wait. let u wait. 
even now the darkness clear say kim. it be only natural that the descend sun should at last strike through the tree trunk across the grove fill it with mealy gold light for a few minute. but to kim it be the crown of the umballa brahmin s prophecy. 
hark. say the lama. one beat a drum far off. 
at first the sound carry dilute through the still air resemble the beat of an artery in the head. soon a sharpness be add. 
ah. the music kim explain. he know the sound of a regimental band but it amaze the lama. 
at the far end of the plain a heavy dusty column crawl in sight. then the wind bring the tune. 
we crave your condescension to tell you what we know of march in the mulligan guard to sligo port below. 
here break in the shrill tongue fife. 
we shoulder arm we march we march away. from phoenix park we march to dublin bay. the drum and the fife oh sweetly they do play a we march march march with the mulligan guard. 
it be the band of the maverick play the regiment to camp. for the men be route march with their baggage. the ripple column swing into the level cart behind it divide leave and right run about like an ant hill and. 
but this be sorcery. say the lama. 
the plain dot itself with tent that seem to rise all spread from the cart. another rush of men invade the grove pitch a huge tent in silence run up yet eight or nine more by the side of it unearth cook pot pan and bundle which be take possession of by a crowd of native servant. and behold the mango tope turn into an orderly town a they watch. 
let u go say the lama sink back afraid a the fire twinkle and white officer with jingle sword stalk into the mess tent. 
stand back in the shadow. no one can see beyond the light of a fire say kim his eye still on the flag. he have never before watch the routine of a season regiment pitch camp in thirty minute. 
look. look. look. cluck the lama. yonder come a priest. it be bennett the church of england chaplain of the regiment limp in dusty black. one of his flock have make some rude remark about the chaplain s mettle. and to abash him bennett have march step by step with the men that day. the black dress gold cross on the watch chain the hairless face and the soft black wideawake hat would have mark him a a holy man anywhere in all india. he drop into a camp chair by the door of the mess tent and slide off his boot. three or four officer gather round him laugh and joke over his exploit. 
the talk of white men be wholly lack in dignity say the lama who judge only by tone. but i consider the countenance of that priest and i think he be learn. be it likely that he will understand our talk. i would talk to him of my search. 
never speak to a white man till he be feed say kim quote a well know proverb. they will eat now and and i do not think they be good to beg from. let u go back to the rest place. after we have eat we will come again. it certainly be a red bull my red bull. 
they be both noticeably absent mind when the old lady s retinue set their meal before them. so none break their reserve for it be not lucky to annoy guest. 
now say kim pick his teeth we will return to that place. but thou o holy one must wait a little way off because thy foot be heavy than mine and i be anxious to see more of that red bull. 
but how canst thou understand the talk. walk slowly. the road be dark the lama reply uneasily. 
kim put the question aside. i mark a place near to the tree say he where thou canst sit till i call. nay a the lama make some sort of protest remember this be my search the search for my red bull. the sign in the star be not for thee. i know a little of the custom of white soldier and i always desire to see some new thing. 
what dost thou not know of this world. the lama squat obediently in a little hollow of the grind not a hundred yard from the hump of the mango tree dark against the star powder sky. 
stay till i call. kim flit into the dusk. he know that in all probability there would be sentry round the camp and smile to himself a he hear the thick boot of one. a boy who can dodge over the roof of lahore city on a moonlight night use every little patch and corner of darkness to discomfit his pursuer be not likely to be check by a line of well train soldier. he pay them the compliment of crawl between a couple and run and halt crouch and drop flat work his way toward the light mess tent where close press behind the mango tree he wait till some chance word should give him a returnable lead. 
the one thing now in his mind be further information a to the red bull. for aught he know and kim s limitation be a curious and sudden a his expansion the men the nine hundred thorough devil of his father s prophecy might pray to the beast after dark a hindu pray to the holy cow. that at least would be entirely right and logical and the padre with the gold cross would be therefore the man to consult in the matter. on the other hand remember sober face padre whom he have avoid in lahore city the priest might be an inquisitive nuisance who would bid him learn. but have it not be prove at umballa that his sign in the high heaven portend war and arm men. be he not the friend of the star a well a of all the world cram to the teeth with dreadful secret. lastly and firstly a the undercurrent of all his quick thought this adventure though he do not know the english word be a stupendous lark a delightful continuation of his old flight across the housetop a well a the fulfilment of sublime prophecy. he lay belly flat and wriggle towards the mess tent door a hand on the amulet round his neck. 
it be a he suspect. the sahib pray to their god. for in the centre of the mess table it sole ornament when they be on the line of march stand a golden bull fashion from old time loot of the summer palace at pekin a red gold bull with lower head ramp upon a field of irish green. to him the sahib hold out their glass and cry aloud confusedly. 
now the reverend arthur bennett always leave mess after that toast and be rather tire by his march his movement be more abrupt than usual. kim with slightly raise head be still star at his totem on the table when the chaplain step on his right shoulder blade. kim flinch under the leather and roll sideways bring down the chaplain who ever a man of action catch him by the throat and nearly choke the life out of him. kim then kick him desperately in the stomach. mr bennett gasp and double up but without relax his grip roll over again and silently haul kim to his own tent. the maverick be incurable practical joker. and it occur to the englishman that silence be best till he have make complete inquiry. 
why it s a boy. he say a he draw his prize under the light of the tent pole lantern then shake him severely cry. what be you do. you re a thief. choor. mallum. his hindustani be very limit and the ruffle and disgust kim intend to keep to the character lay down for him. a he recover his breath he be invent a beautifully plausible tale of his relation to some scullion and at the same time keep a keen eye on and a little under the chaplain s leave arm pit. the chance come. he duck for the doorway but a long arm shoot out and clutch at his neck snap the amulet string and close on the amulet. 
give it me. o give it me. be it lose. give me the paper. 
the word be in english the tinny saw cut english of the native breed and the chaplain jump. 
a scapular say he open his hand. no some sort of heathen charm. why why do you speak english. little boy who steal be beat. you know that. 
i do not i do not steal. kim dance in agony like a terrier at a lift stick. oh give it me. it be my charm. do not thieve it from me. 
the chaplain take no heed but go to the tent door call aloud. a fattish clean shave man appear. 
i want your advice father victor say bennett. i find this boy in the dark outside the mess tent. ordinarily i should have chastise him and let him go because i believe him to be a thief. but it seem he talk english and he attache some sort of value to a charm round his neck. i think perhaps you might help me. 
between himself and the roman catholic chaplain of the irish contingent lay a bennett believe an unbridgeable gulf but it be noticeable that whenever the church of england deal with a human problem she be very likely to call in the church of rome. bennett s official abhorrence of the scarlet woman and all her way be only equal by his private respect for father victor. 
a thief talk english be it. let s look at his charm. no it s not a scapular bennett. he hold out his hand. 
but have we any right to open it. a sound whip. 
i do not thieve protest kim. you have hit me kick all over my body. now give me my charm and i will go away. 
not quite so fast. we ll look first say father victor leisurely roll out poor kimball o hara s ne varietur parchment his clearance certificate and kim s baptismal certificate. on this last o hara with some confuse idea that he be do wonder for his son have scrawl score of time. look after the boy. please look after the boy sign his name and regimental number in full. 
power of darkness below. say father victor pass all over to mr bennett. do you know what these thing be. 
yes. say kim. they be mine and i want to go away. 
i do not quite understand say mr bennett. he probably bring them on purpose. it may be a beg trick of some kind. 
i never saw a beggar le anxious to stay with his company then. there s the making of a gay mystery here. ye believe in providence bennett. 
i hope so. 
well i believe in miracle so it come to the same thing. power of darkness. kimball o hara. and his son. but then he s a native and i saw kimball marry myself to annie shott. how long have you have these thing boy. 
ever since i be a little baby. 
father victor step forward quickly and open the front of kim s upper garment. you see bennett he s not very black. what s your name. 
kim. 
or kimball. 
perhaps. will you let me go away. 
what else. 
they call me kim rishti ke. that be kim of the rishti. 
what be that rishti. 
eye rishti that be the regiment my father s. 
irish oh i see. 
yes. that be how my father tell me. my father he ha live. 
ha live where. 
ha live. of course he be dead go out. 
oh. that s your abrupt way of put it be it. 
bennett interrupt. it be possible i have do the boy an injustice. he be certainly white though evidently neglect. i be sure i must have bruise him. i do not think spirit. 
get him a glass of sherry then and let him squat on the cot. now kim continue father victor no one be go to hurt you. drink that down and tell u about yourself. the truth if you ve no objection. 
kim cough a little a he put down the empty glass and consider. this seem a time for caution and fancy. small boy who prowl about camp be generally turn out after a whip. but he have receive no stripe. the amulet be evidently work in his favour and it look a though the umballa horoscope and the few word that he could remember of his father s maunder fit in most miraculously. else why do the fat padre seem so impress and why the glass of hot yellow drink from the lean one. 
my father he be dead in lahore city since i be very little. the woman she keep kabarri shop near where the hire carriage be. kim begin with a plunge not quite sure how far the truth would serve him. 
your mother. 
no. with a gesture of disgust. she go out when i be bear. my father he get these paper from the jadoo gher what do you call that. bennett nod. because he be in good stand. what do you call that. again bennett nod. my father tell me that. he say too and also the brahmin who make the draw in the dust at umballa two day ago he say that i shall find a red bull on a green field and that the bull shall help me. 
a phenomenal little liar mutter bennett. 
power of darkness below what a country. murmur father victor. go on kim. 
i do not thieve. besides i be just now disciple of a very holy man. he be sit outside. we saw two men come with flag make the place ready. that be always so in a dream or on account of a a prophecy. so i know it be come true. i saw the red bull on the green field and my father he say. nine hundred pukka devil and the colonel rid on a horse will look after you when you find the red bull. i do not know what to do when i saw the bull but i go away and i come again when it be dark. i want to see the bull again and i saw the bull again with the the sahib pray to it. i think the bull shall help me. the holy man say so too. he be sit outside. will you hurt him if i call him a shout now. he be very holy. he can witness to all the thing i say and he know i be not a thief. 
sahib pray to a bull. what in the world do you make of that. say bennett. disciple of a holy man. be the boy mad. 
it s o hara s boy sure enough. o hara s boy league with all the power of darkness. it s very much what his father would have do if he be drink. we d good invite the holy man. he may know something. 
he doe not know anything say kim. i will show you him if you come. he be my master. then afterwards we can go. 
power of darkness. be all that father victor could say a bennett march off with a firm hand on kim s shoulder. 
they find the lama where he have drop. 
the search be at an end for me shout kim in the vernacular. i have find the bull but god know what come next. they will not hurt you. come to the fat priest s tent with this thin man and see the end. it be all new and they cannot talk hindi. they be only uncurried donkey. 
then it be not well to make a jest of their ignorance the lama return. i be glad if thou art rejoice chela. 
dignify and unsuspicious he stride into the little tent salute the church a a churchman and sit down by the open charcoal brazier. the yellow line of the tent reflect in the lamplight make his face red gold. 
bennett look at him with the triple ring uninterest of the creed that lump nine tenth of the world under the title of heathen. 
and what be the end of the search. what gift ha the red bull bring. the lama address himself to kim. 
he say what be you go to do. bennett be star uneasily at father victor and kim for his own end take upon himself the office of interpreter. 
i do not see what concern this fakir ha with the boy who be probably his dupe or his confederate bennett begin. we cannot allow an english boy assume that he be the son of a mason the sooner he go to the masonic orphanage the good. 
ah. that s your opinion a secretary to the regimental lodge say father victor. but we might a well tell the old man what we be go to do. he doesn t look like a villain. 
my experience be that one can never fathom the oriental mind. now kimball i wish you to tell this man what i say word for word. 
kim gather the import of the next few sentence and begin thus. 
holy one the thin fool who look like a camel say that i be the son of a sahib. 
but how. 
oh it be true. i know it since my birth but he could only find it out by rend the amulet from my neck and read all the paper. he think that once a sahib be always a sahib and between the two of them they purpose to keep me in this regiment or to send me to a madrissah [a school]. it ha happen before. i have always avoid it. the fat fool be of one mind and the camel like one of another. but that be no odds. i may spend one night here and perhaps the next. it ha happen before. then i will run away and return to thee. 
but tell them that thou art my chela. tell them how thou didst come to me when i be faint and bewilder. tell them of our search and they will surely let thee go now. 
i have already tell them. they laugh and they talk of the police. 
what be you say. ask mr bennett. 
oah. he only say that if you do not let me go it will stop him in his business his ur gent private af fair. this last be a reminiscence of some talk with a eurasian clerk in the canal department but it only draw a smile which nettle him. and if you do know what his business be you would not be in such a beastly hurry to interfere. 
what be it then. say father victor not without feel a he watch the lama s face. 
there be a river in this country which he wish to find so verree much. it be put out by an arrow which kim tap his foot impatiently a he translate in his own mind from the vernacular to his clumsy english. oah it be make by our lord god buddha you know and if you wash there you be wash away from all your sin and make a white a cotton wool. kim have hear mission talk in his time. i be his disciple and we must find that river. it be so verree valuable to u. 
say that again say bennett. kim obey with amplification. 
but this be gross blasphemy. cry the church of england. 
tck. tck. say father victor sympathetically. i d give a good deal to be able to talk the vernacular. a river that wash away sin. and how long have you two be look for it. 
oh many day. now we wish to go away and look for it again. it be not here you see. 
i see say father victor gravely. but he can t go on in that old man s company. it would be different kim if you be not a soldier s son. tell him that the regiment will take care of you and make you a good a man a your a good a man a can be. tell him that if he belief in miracle he must believe that. 
there be no need to play on his credulity bennett interrupt. 
i m do no such thing. he must believe that the boy s come here to his own regiment in search of his red bull be in the nature of a miracle. consider the chance against it bennett. this one boy in all india and our regiment of all others on the line o march for him to meet with. it s predestine on the face of it. yes tell him it s kismet. kismet mallum. [do you understand. ]. 
he turn towards the lama to whom he might a well have talk of mesopotamia. 
they say the old man s eye light at kim s speech they say that the mean of my horoscope be now accomplish and that be lead back though a thou knowest i go out of curiosity to these people and their red bull i must need go to a madrissah and be turn into a sahib. now i make pretence of agreement for at the bad it will be but a few meal eat away from thee. then i will slip away and follow down the road to saharunpore. therefore holy one keep with that kulu woman on no account stray far from her cart till i come again. past question my sign be of war and of arm men. see how they have give me wine to drink and set me upon a bed of honour. my father must have be some great person. so if they raise me to honour among them good. if not good again. however it go i will run back to thee when i be tire. but stay with the rajputni or i shall miss thy foot. oah yes say the boy i have tell him everything you tell me to say. 
and i cannot see any need why he should wait say bennett feel in his trouser pocket. we can investigate the detail late and i will give him a ru. 
give him time. maybe he s fond of the lad say father victor half arrest the clergyman s motion. 
the lama drag forth his rosary and pull his huge hat brim over his eye. 
what can he want now. 
he say kim put up one hand. he say. be quiet. he want to speak to me by himself. you see you do not know one little word of what he say and i think if you talk he will perhaps give you very bad curse. when he take those bead like that you see he always want to be quiet. 
the two englishman sit overwhelm but there be a look in bennett s eye that promise ill for kim when he should be relax to the religious arm. 
a sahib and the son of a sahib the lama s voice be harsh with pain. but no white man know the land and the custom of the land a thou knowest. how come it this be true. 
what matter holy one. but remember it be only for a night or two. remember i can change swiftly. it will all be a it be when i first speak to thee under zam zammah the great gun. 
a a boy in the dress of white men when i first go to the wonder house. and a second time thou wast a hindu. what shall the third incarnation be. he chuckle drearily. ah chela thou ha do a wrong to an old man because my heart go out to thee. 
and mine to thee. but how could i know that the red bull would bring me to this business. 
the lama cover his face afresh and nervously rattle the rosary. kim squat beside him and lay hold upon a fold of his clothe. 
now it be understand that the boy be a sahib. he go on in a muffle tone. such a sahib a be he who keep the image in the wonder house. the lama s experience of white men be limit. he seem to be repeat a lesson. so then it be not seemly that he should do other than a the sahib do. he must go back to his own people. 
for a day and a night and a day kim plead. 
no ye don t. father victor saw kim edge towards the door and interpose a strong leg. 
i do not understand the custom of white men. the priest of the image in the wonder house in lahore be more courteous than the thin one here. this boy will be take from me. they will make a sahib of my disciple. woe to me. how shall i find my river. have they no disciple. ask. 
he say he be very sorree that he cannot find the river now any more. he say why have you no disciple and stop bother him. he want to be wash of his sin. 
neither bennett nor father victor find any answer ready. 
say kim in english distress for the lama s agony. i think if you will let me go now we will walk away quietly and not steal. we will look for that river like before i be catch. i wish i do not come here to find the red bull and all that sort of thing. i do not want it. 
it s the very best day s work you ever do for yourself young man say bennett. 
good heaven i don t know how to console him say father victor watch the lama intently. he can t take the boy away with him and yet he s a good man i m sure he s a good man. bennett if you give him that rupee he ll curse you root and branch. 
they listen to each other s breathe three five full minute. then the lama raise his head and look forth across them into space and emptiness. 
and i be a follower of the way he say bitterly. the sin be mine and the punishment be mine. i make believe to myself for now i see it be but make belief that thou wast send to me to aid in the search. so my heart go out to thee for thy charity and thy courtesy and the wisdom of thy little year. but those who follow the way must permit not the fire of any desire or attachment for that be all illusion. a say. he quote an old old chinese text back it with another and reinforce these with a third. i step aside from the way my chela. it be no fault of thine. i delight in the sight of life the new people upon the road and in thy joy at see these thing. i be please with thee who should have consider my search and my search alone. now i be sorrowful because thou art take away and my river be far from me. it be the law which i have break. 
power of darkness below. say father victor who wise in the confessional hear the pain in every sentence. 
i see now that the sign of the red bull be a sign for me a well a for thee. all desire be red and evil. i will do penance and find my river alone. 
at least go back to the kulu woman say kim otherwise thou wilt be lose upon the road. she will fee thee till i run back to thee. 
the lama wave a hand to show that the matter be finally settle in his mind. 
now his tone alter a he turn to kim what will they do with thee. at least i may acquire merit wipe out past ill. 
make me a sahib so they think. the day after tomorrow i return. do not grieve. 
of what sort. such an one a this or that man. he point to father victor. such an one a those i saw this even men wear sword and stamp heavily. 
maybe. 
that be not well. these men follow desire and come to emptiness. thou must not be of their sort. 
the umballa priest say that my star be war kim interject. i will ask these fool but there be truly no need. i will run away this night for all i want to see the new thing. 
kim put two or three question in english to father victor translate the reply to the lama. 
then. he say you take him from me and you cannot say what you will make him. he say tell me before i go for it be not a small thing to make a child. 
you will be send to a school. late on we shall see. kimball i suppose you d like to be a soldier. 
gorah log [white folk]. no ah. no ah. kim shake his head violently. there be nothing in his composition to which drill and routine appeal. i will not be a soldier. 
you will be what you re tell to be say bennett. and you should be grateful that we re go to help you. 
kim smile compassionately. if these men lay under the delusion that he would do anything that he do not fancy so much the good. 
another long silence follow. bennett fidget with impatience and suggest call a sentry to evict the fakir. 
do they give or sell learn among the sahib. ask them say the lama and kim interpret. 
they say that money be pay to the teacher but that money the regiment will give. what need. it be only for a night. 
and the more money be pay the good learn be give. the lama disregard kim s plan for an early flight. it be no wrong to pay for learn. to help the ignorant to wisdom be always a merit. the rosary click furiously a an abacus. then he face his oppressor. 
ask them for how much money do they give a wise and suitable teach. and in what city be that teach give. 
well say father victor in english when kim have translate that depend. the regiment would pay for you all the time you be at the military orphanage. or you might go on the punjab masonic orphanage s list. not that he or you ud understand what that mean. but the best school a boy can get in india be of course at st xavier s in partibus at lucknow. this take some time to interpret for bennett wish to cut it short. 
he want to know how much. say kim placidly. 
two or three hundred rupee a year. father victor be long past any sense of amazement. bennett impatient do not understand. 
he say. write that name and the money upon a paper and give it him. and he say you must write your name below because he be go to write a letter in some day to you. he say you be a good man. he say the other man be a fool. he be go away. 
the lama rise suddenly. i follow my search he cry and be go. 
he ll run slap into the sentry cry father victor jump up a the lama stalk out. but i can t leave the boy. kim make swift motion to follow but check himself. there be no sound of challenge outside. the lama have disappear. 
kim settle himself composedly on the chaplain s cot. at least the lama have promise that he would stay with the raiput woman from kulu and the rest be of the small importance. it please him that the two padre be so evidently excite. they talk long in undertone father victor urge some scheme on mr bennett who seem incredulous. all this be very new and fascinate but kim felt sleepy. they call men into the tent one of them certainly be the colonel a his father have prophesy and they ask him an infinity of question chiefly about the woman who look after him all of which kim answer truthfully. they do not seem to think the woman a good guardian. 
after all this be the new of his experience. sooner or late if he choose he could escape into great grey formless india beyond tent and padre and colonel. meantime if the sahib be to be impress he would do his best to impress them. he too be a white man. 
after much talk that he could not comprehend they hand him over to a sergeant who have strict instruction not to let him escape. the regiment would go on to umballa and kim would be send up partly at the expense of the lodge and in part by subscription to a place call sanawar. 
it s miraculous past all whoop colonel say father victor when he have talk without a break for ten minute. his buddhist friend ha levant after take my name and address. i can t quite make out whether he ll pay for the boy s education or whether he be prepare some sort of witchcraft on his own account. then to kim. you ll live to be grateful to your friend the red bull yet. we ll make a man of you at sanawar even at the price o make you a protestant. 
certainly most certainly say bennett. 
but you will not go to sanawar say kim. 
but we will go to sanawar little man. that s the order of the commander in chief who s a trifle more important than o hara s son. 
you will not go to sanawar. you will go to thee war. 
there be a shout of laughter from the full tent. 
when you know your own regiment a trifle good you win t confuse the line of march with line of battle kim. we hope to go to thee war sometime. 
oah i know all thatt. kim draw his bow again at a venture. if they be not go to the war at least they do not know what he know of the talk in the veranda at umballa. 
i know you be not at thee war now. but i tell you that a soon a you get to umballa you will be send to the war the new war. it be a war of eight thousand men besides the gun. 
that s explicit. d you add prophecy to your other gift. take him along sergeant. take up a suit for him from the drum an take care he doesn t slip through your finger. who say the age of miracle be go by. i think i ll go to bed. my poor mind s weaken. 
at the far end of the camp silent a a wild animal an hour late sit kim newly wash all over in a horrible stiff suit that rasp his arm and leg. 
a most amazin young bird say the sergeant. he turn up in charge of a yellow head buck brahmin priest with his father s lodge certificate round his neck talkin god know what all of a red bull. the buck brahmin evaporate without explanation an the bhoy set cross legged on the chaplain s bed prophesyin bloody war to the men at large. injia s a wild land for a god fearin man. i ll just tie his leg to the tent pole in case he ll go through the roof. what do ye say about the war. 
eight thousand men besides gun say kim. very soon you will see. 
you re a consolin little imp. lie down between the drum an go to bye bye. those two boy will watch your slumber. 
chapter. 
now i remember comrade old playmate on new sea whenas we trade orpiment among the savage. ten thousand league to southward and thirty year remove they know not noble valdez but me they know and love. 
song of diego valdez. 
very early in the morning the white tent come down and disappear a the maverick take a side road to umballa. it do not skirt the rest place and kim trudge beside a baggage cart under fire of comment from soldier wife be not so confident a overnight. he discover that he be closely watch father victor on the one side and mr bennett on the other. 
in the forenoon the column check. a camel orderly hand the colonel a letter. he read it and speak to a major. half a mile in the rear kim hear a hoarse and joyful clamour roll down on him through the thick dust. then someone beat him on the back cry. tell u how ye know ye little limb of satan. father dear see if ye can make him tell. 
a pony range alongside and he be haul on to the priest s saddlebow. 
now my son your prophecy of last night ha come true. our order be to entrain at umballa for the front tomorrow. 
what be thatt. say kim for front and entrain be newish word to him. 
we be go to thee war a you call it. 
of course you be go to thee war. i say last night. 
ye do. but power o darkness how do ye know. 
kim s eye sparkle. he shut his lip nod his head and look unspeakable thing. the chaplain move on through the dust and private sergeant and subaltern call one another s attention to the boy. the colonel at the head of the column star at him curiously. it be probably some bazar rumour. he say. but even then he refer to the paper in his hand. hang it all the thing be only decide within the last forty eight hour. 
be there many more like you in india. say father victor or be you by way o be a lusus naturae. 
now i have tell you say the boy will you let me go back to my old man. if he ha not stay with that woman from kulu i be afraid he will die. 
by what i saw of him he s a well able to take care of himself a you. no. ye ve bring u luck an we re goin to make a man of you. i ll take ye back to your baggage cart and ye ll come to me this even. 
for the rest of the day kim find himself an object of distinguish consideration among a few hundred white men. the story of his appearance in camp the discovery of his parentage and his prophecy have lose nothing in the tell. a big shapeless white woman on a pile of bed ask him mysteriously whether he think her husband would come back from the war. kim reflect gravely and say that he would and the woman give him food. in many respect this big procession that play music at interval this crowd that talk and laugh so easily resemble a festival in lahore city. so far there be no sign of hard work and he resolve to lend the spectacle his patronage. at even there come out to meet them band of music and play the maverick into camp near umballa railway station. that be an interest night. men of other regiment come to visit the maverick. the maverick go visit on their own account. their picket hurry forth to bring them back meet picket of strange regiment on the same duty. and after a while the bugle blow madly for more picket with officer to control the tumult. the maverick have a reputation for liveliness to live up to. but they fell in on the platform next morning in perfect shape and condition. and kim leave behind with the sick woman and boy find himself shout farewell excitedly a the train draw away. life a a sahib be amuse so far. but he touch it with a cautious hand. then they march him back in charge of a drummer boy to empty lime wash barrack whose floor be cover with rubbish and string and paper and whose ceiling give back his lonely footfall. native fashion he curl himself up on a strip cot and go to sleep. an angry man stump down the veranda wake him up and say he be a schoolmaster. this be enough for kim and he retire into his shell. he could just puzzle out the various english police notice in lahore city because they affect his comfort. and among the many guest of the woman who look after him have be a queer german who paint scenery for the parsee travel theatre. he tell kim that he have be on the barricade in forty eight and therefore at least that be how it strike kim he would teach the boy to write in return for food. kim have be kick a far a single letter but do not think well of them. 
i do not know anything. go away. say kim scent evil. hereupon the man catch him by the ear drag him to a room in a far off wing where a dozen drummer boy be sit on form and tell him to be still if he could do nothing else. this he manage very successfully. the man explain something or other with white line on a black board for at least half an hour and kim continue his interrupt nap. he much disapprove of the present aspect of affair for this be the very school and discipline he have spend two third of his young life in avoid. suddenly a beautiful idea occur to him and he wonder that he have not think of it before. 
the man dismiss them and first to spring through the veranda into the open sunshine be kim. 
ere you. alt. stop. say a high voice at his heel. i ve get to look after you. my order be not to let you out of my sight. where be you goin. 
it be the drummer boy who have be hang round him all the forenoon a fat and freckle person of about fourteen and kim loathe him from the sol of his boot to his cap ribbon. 
to the bazar to get sweet for you say kim after think. 
well the bazar s out o bound. if we go there we ll get a dress down. you come back. 
how near can we go. kim do not know what bound mean but he wish to be polite for the present. 
ow near. ow far you mean. we can go a far a that tree down the road. 
then i will go there. 
all right. i ain t goin. it s too ot. i can watch you from ere. it s no good your runnin away. if you do they d spot you by your clothe. that s regimental stuff you re wearin. there ain t a picket in umballa wouldn t ead you back quick than you start out. 
this do not impress kim a much a the knowledge that his raiment would tire him out if he try to run. he slouch to the tree at the corner of a bare road lead towards the bazar and eye the native pass. most of them be barrack servant of the low caste. kim hail a sweeper who promptly retort with a piece of unnecessary insolence in the natural belief that the european boy could not follow it. the low quick answer undeceive him. kim put his fetter soul into it thankful for the late chance to abuse somebody in the tongue he know best. and now go to the near letter writer in the bazar and tell him to come here. i would write a letter. 
but but what manner of white man s son art thou to need a bazar letter writer. be there not a schoolmaster in the barrack. 
ay. and hell be full of the same sort. do my order you you od. thy mother be marry under a basket. servant of lal beg. kim know the god of the sweeper. run on my business or we will talk again. 
the sweeper shuffle off in haste. there be a white boy by the barrack wait under a tree who be not a white boy he stammer to the first bazar letter writer he come across. he need thee. 
will he pay. say the spruce scribe gather up his desk and pen and seal wax all in order. 
i do not know. he be not like other boy. go and see. it be well worth. 
kim dance with impatience when the slim young kayeth heave in sight. a soon a his voice could carry he curse him volubly. 
first i will take my pay the letter writer say. bad word have make the price high. but who art thou dress in that fashion to speak in this fashion. 
aha. that be in the letter which thou shalt write. never be such a tale. but i be in no haste. another writer will serve me. umballa city be a full of them a be lahore. 
four anna say the writer sit down and spread his cloth in the shade of a desert barrack wing. 
mechanically kim squat beside him squat a only the native can in spite of the abominable cling trouser. 
the writer regard him sideways. 
that be the price to ask of sahib say kim. now fix me a true one. 
an anna and a half. how do i know have write the letter that thou wilt not run away. 
i must not go beyond this tree and there be also the stamp to be consider. 
i get no commission on the price of the stamp. once more what manner of white boy art thou. 
that shall be say in the letter which be to mahbub ali the horse dealer in the kashmir serai at lahore. he be my friend. 
wonder on wonder. murmur the letter writer dip a reed in the inkstand. to be write in hindi. 
assuredly. to mahbub ali then. begin. i have come down with the old man a far a umballa in the train. at umballa i carry the news of the bay mare s pedigree. after what he have see in the garden he be not go to write of white stallion. 
slow a little. what ha a bay mare to do. be it mahbub ali the great dealer. 
who else. i have be in his service. take more ink. again. a the order be so i do it. we then go on foot towards benares but on the third day we find a certain regiment. be that down. 
ay pulton murmur the writer all ear. 
i go into their camp and be catch and by mean of the charm about my neck which thou knowest it be establish that i be the son of some man in the regiment. accord to the prophecy of the red bull which thou knowest be common talk of our bazar. kim wait for this shaft to sink into the letter writer s heart clear his throat and continue. a priest clothe me and give me a new name. one priest however be a fool. the clothe be very heavy but i be a sahib and my heart be heavy too. they send me to a school and beat me. i do not like the air and water here. come then and help me mahbub ali or send me some money for i have not sufficient to pay the writer who write this. 
who write this. it be my own fault that i be trick. thou art a clever a husain bux that forge the treasury stamp at nucklao. but what a tale. what a tale. be it true by any chance. 
it doe not profit to tell lie to mahbub ali. it be good to help his friend by lend them a stamp. when the money come i will repay. 
the writer grunt doubtfully but take a stamp out of his desk seal the letter hand it over to kim and depart. mahbub ali s be a name of power in umballa. 
that be the way to win a good account with the god kim shout after him. 
pay me twice over when the money come the man cry over his shoulder. 
what be you bukkin to that nigger about. say the drummer boy when kim return to the veranda. i be watch in you. 
i be only talkin to him. 
you talk the same a a nigger don t you. 
no ah. no ah. i onlee speak a little. what shall we do now. 
the bugle ll go for dinner in arf a minute. my gawd. i wish i d go up to the front with the regiment. it s awful doin nothin but school down ere. don t you eat it. 
oah yes. 
i d run away if i know where to go to but a the men say in this bloomin injia you re only a prisoner at large. you can t desert without bein take back at once. i m fair sick of it. 
you have be in be england. 
w y i only come out last troopin season with my mother. i should think i ave be in england. what a ignorant little beggar you be. you be bring up in the gutter wasn t you. 
oah yes. tell me something about england. my father he come from there. 
though he would not say so kim of course disbelieve every word the drummer boy speak about the liverpool suburb which be his england. it pass the heavy time till dinner a most unappetizing meal serve to the boy and a few invalid in a corner of a barrack room. but that he have write to mahbub ali kim would have be almost depress. the indifference of native crowd he be use to. but this strong loneliness among white men prey on him. he be grateful when in the course of the afternoon a big soldier take him over to father victor who live in another wing across another dusty parade grind. the priest be read an english letter write in purple ink. he look at kim more curiously than ever. 
an how do you like it my son a far a you ve go. not much eh. it must be hard very hard on a wild animal. listen now. i ve an amazin epistle from your friend. 
where be he. be he well. oah. if he know to write me letter it be all right. 
you re fond of him then. 
of course i be fond of him. he be fond of me. 
it seem so by the look of this. he can t write english can he. 
oah no. not that i know but of course he find a letter writer who can write english verree well and so he write. i do hope you understand. 
that account for it. d you know anything about his money affair. kim s face show that he do not. 
how can i tell. 
that s what i m askin. now listen if you can make head or tail o this. we ll skip the first part. it s write from jagadhir road. sit on wayside in grave meditation trust to be favour with your honour s applause of present step which recommend your honour to execute for almighty god s sake. education be great bless if of best sort. otherwise no earthly use. faith the old man s hit the bull s eye that time. if your honour condescend give my boy best education xavier. i suppose that s st xavier s in partibus. in term of our conversation date in your tent th instant. a business like touch there. then almighty god bless your honour s succeed to third an fourth generation and now listen. confide in your honour s humble servant for adequate remuneration per hoondi per annum three hundred rupee a year to one expensive education st xavier lucknow and allow small time to forward same per hoondi send to any part of india a your honour shall address yourself. this servant of your honour ha presently no place to lay crown of his head but go to benares by train on account of persecution of old woman talk so much and unanxious reside saharunpore in any domestic capacity. now what in the world doe that mean. 
she ha ask him to be her puro her clergyman at saharunpore i think. he would not do that on account of his river. she do talk. 
it s clear to you be it. it beat me altogether. so go to benares where will find address and forward rupee for boy who be apple of eye and for almighty god s sake execute this education and your petitioner a in duty bind shall ever awfully pray. write by sobrao satai fail entrance allahabad university for venerable teshoo lama the priest of such zen look for a river address care of tirthankars temple benares. p. m. please note boy be apple of eye and rupee shall be send per hoondi three hundred per annum. for god almighty s sake. now be that ravin lunacy or a business proposition. i ask you because i m fairly at my wit end. 
he say he will give me three hundred rupee a year. so he will give me them. 
oh that s the way you look at it be it. 
of course. if he say so. 
the priest whistle. then he address kim a an equal. i don t believe it. but we ll see. you be goin off today to the military orphanage at sanawar where the regiment would keep you till you be old enough to enlist. ye d be bring up to the church of england. bennett arrange for that. on the other hand if ye go to st xavier s ye ll get a good education an an can have the religion. d ye see my dilemma. kim saw nothing save a vision of the lama go south in a train with none to beg for him. 
like most people i m go to temporize. if your friend send the money from benares power of darkness below where s a street beggar to raise three hundred rupee. ye ll go down to lucknow and i ll pay your fare because i can t touch the subscription money if i intend a i do to make ye a catholic. if he doesn t ye ll go to the military orphanage at the regiment s expense. i ll allow him three day grace though i don t believe it at all. even then if he fail in his payment late on. but it s beyond me. we can only walk one step at a time in this world praise god. an they send bennett to the front an leave me behind. bennett can t expect everything. 
oah yes say kim vaguely. 
the priest lean forward. i d give a month s pay to find what s goin on inside that little round head of yours. 
there be nothing say kim and scratch it. he be wonder whether mahbub ali would send him a much a a whole rupee. then he could pay the letter writer and write letter to the lama at benares. perhaps mahbub ali would visit him next time he come south with horse. surely he must know that kim s delivery of the letter to the officer at umballa have cause the great war which the men and boy have discuss so loudly over the barrack dinner table. but if mahbub ali do not know this it would be very unsafe to tell him so. mahbub ali be hard upon boy who know or think they know too much. 
well till i get further news father victor s voice interrupt the reverie. ye can run along now and play with the other boy. they ll teach ye something but i don t think ye ll like it. 
the day drag to it weary end. when he wish to sleep he be instruct how to fold up his clothe and set out his boot. the other boy deride. bugle wake him in the dawn. the schoolmaster catch him after breakfast thrust a page of meaningless character under his nose give them senseless name and whack him without reason. kim meditate poison him with opium borrow from a barrack sweeper but reflect that a they all eat at one table in public. this be peculiarly revolt to kim who prefer to turn his back on the world at meal. the stroke might be dangerous. then he attempt run off to the village where the priest have try to drug the lama the village where the old soldier live. but far see sentry at every exit head back the little scarlet figure. trouser and jacket cripple body and mind alike so he abandon the project and fell back oriental fashion on time and chance. three day of torment pass in the big echo white room. he walk out of afternoon under escort of the drummer boy and all he hear from his companion be the few useless word which seem to make two third of the white man s abuse. kim know and despise them all long ago. the boy resent his silence and lack of interest by beat him a be only natural. he do not care for any of the bazar which be in bound. he style all native nigger. yet servant and sweeper call him abominable name to his face and mislead by their deferential attitude he never understand. this somewhat console kim for the beating. 
on the morning of the fourth day a judgement overtake that drummer. they have go out together towards umballa racecourse. he return alone weep with news that young o hara to whom he have be do nothing in particular have hail a scarlet beard nigger on horseback. that the nigger have then and there lay into him with a peculiarly adhesive quirt pick up young o hara and bear him off at full gallop. these tide come to father victor and he draw down his long upper lip. he be already sufficiently startle by a letter from the temple of the tirthankars at benares enclose a native banker s note of hand for three hundred rupee and an amaze prayer to almighty god. the lama would have be more annoy than the priest have he know how the bazar letter writer have translate his phrase to acquire merit. 
power of darkness below. father victor fumble with the note. an now he s off with another of his peep o day friend. i don t know whether it will be a great relief to me to get him back or to have him lose. he s beyond my comprehension. how the divil yes he s the man i mean can a street beggar raise money to educate white boy. 
three mile off on umballa racecourse mahbub ali rein a grey kabuli stallion with kim in front of him be say. 
but little friend of all the world there be my honour and reputation to be consider. all the officer sahib in all the regiment and all umballa know mahbub ali. men saw me pick thee up and chastise that boy. we be see now from far across this plain. how can i take thee away or account for thy disappear if i set thee down and let thee run off into the crop. they would put me in jail. be patient. once a sahib always a sahib. when thou art a man who know. thou wilt be grateful to mahbub ali. 
take me beyond their sentry where i can change this red. give me money and i will go to benares and be with my lama again. i do not want to be a sahib and remember i do deliver that message. 
the stallion bound wildly. mahbub ali have incautiously drive home the sharp edge stirrup. he be not the new sort of fluent horse dealer who wear english boot and spur. kim draw his own conclusion from that betrayal. 
that be a small matter. it lay on the straight road to benares. i and the sahib have by this time forget it. i send so many letter and message to men who ask question about horse i cannot well remember one from the other. be it some matter of a bay mare that peter sahib wish the pedigree of. 
kim saw the trap at once. if he have say bay mare mahbub would have know by his very readiness to fall in with the amendment that the boy suspect something. kim reply therefore. 
bay mare. no. i do not forget my message thus. it be a white stallion. 
ay so it be. a white arab stallion. but thou didst write bay mare to me. 
who care to tell truth to a letter writer. kim answer feel mahbub s palm on his heart. 
hi. mahbub you old villain pull up. cry a voice and an englishman race alongside on a little polo pony. i ve be chase you half over the country. that kabuli of yours can go. for sale i suppose. 
i have some young stuff come on make by heaven for the delicate and difficult polo game. he ha no equal. he. 
play polo and wait at table. yes. we know all that. what the deuce have you get there. 
a. boy say mahbub gravely. he be be beat by another boy. his father be once a white soldier in the big war. the boy be a child in lahore city. he play with my horse when he be a babe. now i think they will make him a soldier. he ha be newly catch by his father s regiment that go up to the war last week. but i do not think he want to be a soldier. i take him for a ride. tell me where thy barrack be and i will set thee there. 
let me go. i can find the barrack alone. 
and if thou runnest away who will say it be not my fault. 
he ll run back to his dinner. where ha he to run to. the englishman ask. 
he be bear in the land. he ha friend. he go where he choose. he be a chabuk sawai [a sharp chap]. it need only to change his clothe and in a twinkle he would be a low caste hindu boy. 
the deuce he would. the englishman look critically at the boy a mahbub head towards the barrack. kim grind his teeth. mahbub be mock him a faithless afghan will. for he go on. 
they will send him to a school and put heavy boot on his foot and swaddle him in these clothe. then he will forget all he know. now which of the barrack be thine. 
kim point he could not speak to father victor s wing all star white near by. 
perhaps he will make a good soldier say mahbub reflectively. 
he will make a good orderly at least. i send him to deliver a message once from lahore. a message concern the pedigree of a white stallion. 
here be deadly insult on deadly injury and the sahib to whom he have so craftily give that war wake letter hear it all. kim behold mahbub ali fry in flame for his treachery but for himself he saw one long grey vista of barrack school and barrack again. he gaze imploringly at the clear cut face in which there be no glimmer of recognition. but even at this extremity it never occur to him to throw himself on the white man s mercy or to denounce the afghan. and mahbub star deliberately at the englishman who star a deliberately at kim quiver and tongue tie. 
my horse be well train say the dealer. others would have kick sahib. 
ah say the englishman at last rub his pony s damp wither with his whip butt. who make the boy a soldier. 
he say the regiment that find him and especially the padre sahib of that regiment. 
there be the padre. kim choke a bare head father victor sail down upon them from the veranda. 
power o darkness below o hara. how many more mix friend do you keep in asia. he cry a kim slide down and stand helplessly before him. 
good morning padre the englishman say cheerily. i know you by reputation well enough. mean to have come over and call before this. i m creighton. 
of the ethnological survey. say father victor. the englishman nod. faith i m glad to meet ye then. an i owe you some thank for bring back the boy. 
no thank to me padre. besides the boy wasn t go away. you don t know old mahbub ali. the horse dealer sit impassive in the sunlight. you will when you have be in the station a month. he sell u all our crock. that boy be rather a curiosity. can you tell me anything about him. 
can i tell you. puff father victor. you ll be the one man that could help me in my quandary. tell you. power o darkness i m burst to tell someone who know something o the native. 
a groom come round the corner. colonel creighton raise his voice speak in urdu. very good mahbub ali but what be the use of tell me all those story about the pony. not one pice more than three hundred and fifty rupee will i give. 
the sahib be a little hot and angry after rid the horse dealer return with the leer of a privilege jester. presently he will see my horse s point more clearly. i will wait till he ha finish his talk with the padre. i will wait under that tree. 
confound you. the colonel laugh. that come of look at one of mahbub s horse. he s a regular old leech padre. wait then if thou hast so much time to spare mahbub. now i m at your service padre. where be the boy. oh he s go off to collogue with mahbub. queer sort of boy. might i ask you to send my mare round under cover. 
he drop into a chair which command a clear view of kim and mahbub ali in conference beneath the tree. the padre go indoors for cheroot. 
creighton hear kim say bitterly. trust a brahmin before a snake and a snake before an harlot and an harlot before a pathan mahbub ali. 
that be all one. the great red beard wag solemnly. child should not see a carpet on the loom till the pattern be make plain. believe me friend of all the world i do thee great service. they will not make a soldier of thee. 
you crafty old sinner. think creighton. but you re not far wrong. that boy mustn t be waste if he be a advertise. 
excuse me half a minute cry the padre from within but i m gettin the document in the case. 
if through me the favour of this bold and wise colonel sahib come to thee and thou art raise to honour what thank wilt thou give mahbub ali when thou art a man. 
nay nay. i beg thee to let me take the road again where i should have be safe. and thou hast sell me back to the english. what will they give thee for blood money. 
a cheerful young demon. the colonel bite his cigar and turn politely to father victor. 
what be the letter that the fat priest be wave before the colonel. stand behind the stallion a though look at my bridle. say mahbub ali. 
a letter from my lama which he write from jagadhir road say that he will pay three hundred rupee by the year for my school. 
oho. be old red hat of that sort. at which school. 
god know. i think in nucklao. 
yes. there be a big school there for the son of sahib and half sahib. i have see it when i sell horse there. so the lama also love the friend of all the world. 
ay. and he do not tell lie or return me to captivity. 
small wonder the padre doe not know how to unravel the thread. how fast he talk to the colonel sahib. mahbub ali chuckle. by allah. the keen eye sweep the veranda for an instant thy lama ha send what to me look like a note of hand. i have have some few dealing in hoondis. the colonel sahib be look at it. 
what good be all this to me. say kim wearily. thou wilt go away and they will return me to those empty room where there be no good place to sleep and where the boy beat me. 
i do not think that. have patience child. all pathan be not faithless except in horseflesh. 
five ten fifteen minute pass father victor talk energetically or ask question which the colonel answer. 
now i ve tell you everything that i know about the boy from beginnin to end. and it s a bless relief to me. do ye ever hear the like. 
at any rate the old man ha send the money. gobind sahai s note of hand be good from here to china say the colonel. the more one know about native the le can one say what they will or win t do. 
that s consolin from the head of the ethnological survey. it s this mixture of red bull and river of heal. poor heathen god help him. an note of hand and masonic certificate. be you a mason by any chance. 
by jove i be now i come to think of it. that s an additional reason say the colonel absently. 
i m glad ye see a reason in it. but a i say it s the mixture o thing that s beyond me. an his prophesyin to our colonel sit on my bed with his little shimmy tear open show his white skin. an the prophecy comin true. they ll cure all that nonsense at st xavier s eh. 
sprinkle him with holy water the colonel laugh. 
on my word i fancy i ought to sometimes. but i m hop he ll be bring up a a good catholic. all that trouble me be what ll happen if the old beggar man. 
lama lama my dear sir. and some of them be gentleman in their own country. 
the lama then fail to pay next year. he s a fine business head to plan on the spur of the moment but he s bind to die some day. an takin a heathen s money to give a child a christian education. 
but he say explicitly what he want. a soon a he know the boy be white he seem to have make his arrangement accordingly. i d give a month s pay to hear how he explain it all at the tirthankars temple at benares. look here padre i don t pretend to know much about native but if he say he ll pay he ll pay dead or alive. i mean his heir will assume the debt. my advice to you be send the boy down to lucknow. if your anglican chaplain think you ve steal a march on him. 
bad luck to bennett. he be send to the front instead o me. doughty certify me medically unfit. i ll excommunicate doughty if he come back alive. surely bennett ought to be content with. 
glory leave you the religion. quite so. a a matter of fact i don t think bennett will mind. put the blame on me. i er strongly recommend send the boy to st xavier s. he can go down on pas a a soldier s orphan so the railway fare will be save. you can buy him an outfit from the regimental subscription. the lodge will be save the expense of his education and that will put the lodge in a good temper. it s perfectly easy. i ve get to go down to lucknow next week. i ll look after the boy on the way give him in charge of my servant and so on. 
you re a good man. 
not in the least. don t make that mistake. the lama ha send u money for a definite end. we can t very well return it. we shall have to do a he say. well that s settle isn t it. shall we say that tuesday next you ll hand him over to me at the night train south. that s only three day. he can t do much harm in three day. 
it s a weight off my mind but this thing here. he wave the note of hand i don t know gobind sahai. or his bank which may be a hole in a wall. 
you ve never be a subaltern in debt. i ll cash it if you like and send you the voucher in proper order. 
but with all your own work too. it s askin. 
it s not the least trouble indeed. you see a an ethnologist the thing s very interest to me. i d like to make a note of it for some government work that i m do. the transformation of a regimental badge like your red bull into a sort of fetish that the boy follow be very interest. 
but i can t thank you enough. 
there s one thing you can do. all we ethnological men be a jealous a jackdaw of one another s discovery. they re of no interest to anyone but ourselves of course but you know what book collector be like. well don t say a word directly or indirectly about the asiatic side of the boy s character his adventure and his prophecy and so on. i ll worm them out of the boy late on and you see. 
i do. ye ll make a wonderful account of it. never a word will i say to anyone till i see it in print. 
thank you. that go straight to an ethnologist s heart. well i must be get back to my breakfast. good heaven. old mahbub here still. he raise his voice and the horse dealer come out from under the shadow of the tree well what be it. 
a regard that young horse say mahbub i say that when a colt be bear to be a polo pony closely follow the ball without teach when such a colt know the game by divination then i say it be a great wrong to break that colt to a heavy cart sahib. 
so say i also mahbub. the colt will be enter for polo only. these fellow think of nothing in the world but horse padre. i ll see you tomorrow mahbub if you ve anything likely for sale. 
the dealer salute horseman fashion with a sweep of the off hand. be patient a little friend of all the world he whisper to the agonize kim. thy fortune be make. in a little while thou go to nucklao and here be something to pay the letter writer. i shall see thee again i think many time and he canter off down the road. 
listen to me say the colonel from the veranda speak in the vernacular. in three day thou wilt go with me to lucknow see and hear new thing all the while. therefore sit still for three day and do not run away. thou wilt go to school at lucknow. 
shall i meet my holy one there. kim whimper. 
at least lucknow be near to benares than umballa. it may be thou wilt go under my protection. mahbub ali know this and he will be angry if thou returnest to the road now. remember much ha be tell me which i do not forget. 
i will wait say kim but the boy will beat me. 
then the bugle blow for dinner. 
chapter. 
unto whose use the pregnant sun be poise with idiot moon and star retrace star. creep thou betweene thy come s all unnoised. heaven hath her high a earth her base war. heir to these tumult this affright that fraye. by adam s father own sin bind alway. peer up draw out thy horoscope and say which planet mend thy threadbare fate or mar. 
sir john christie. 
in the afternoon the red face schoolmaster tell kim that he have be strike off the strength which convey no mean to him till he be order to go away and play. then he run to the bazar and find the young letter writer to whom he owe a stamp. 
now i pay say kim royally and now i need another letter to be write. 
mahbub ali be in umballa say the writer jauntily. he be by virtue of his office a bureau of general misinformation. 
this be not to mahbub but to a priest. take thy pen and write quickly. to teshoo lama the holy one from bhotiyal seek for a river who be now in the temple of the tirthankars at benares. take more ink. in three day i be to go down to nucklao to the school at nucklao. the name of the school be xavier. i do not know where that school be but it be at nucklao. 
but i know nucklao the writer interrupt. i know the school. 
tell him where it be and i give half an anna. 
the reed pen scratch busily. he cannot mistake. the man lift his head. who watch u across the street. 
kim look up hurriedly and saw colonel creighton in tennis flannel. 
oh that be some sahib who know the fat priest in the barrack. he be beckon me. 
what dost thou. say the colonel when kim trot up. 
i i be not run away. i send a letter to my holy one at benares. 
i have not think of that. hast thou say that i take thee to lucknow. 
nay i have not. read the letter if there be a doubt. 
then why hast thou leave out my name in write to that holy one. the colonel smile a queer smile. kim take his courage in both hand. 
it be say once to me that it be inexpedient to write the name of stranger concern in any matter because by the name of name many good plan be bring to confusion. 
thou hast be well teach the colonel reply and kim flush. i have leave my cheroot case in the padre s veranda. bring it to my house this even. 
where be the house. say kim. his quick wit tell him that he be be test in some fashion or another and he stand on guard. 
ask anyone in the big bazar. the colonel walk on. 
he ha forget his cheroot case say kim return. i must bring it to him this even. that be all my letter except thrice over come to me. come to me. come to me. now i will pay for a stamp and put it in the post. he rise to go and a an afterthought ask. who be that angry face sahib who lose the cheroot case. 
oh he be only creighton sahib a very foolish sahib who be a colonel sahib without a regiment. 
what be his business. 
god know. he be always buy horse which he cannot ride and ask riddle about the work of god such a plant and stone and the custom of people. the dealer call him the father of fool because he be so easily cheat about a horse. mahbub ali say he be mad than most other sahib. 
oh. say kim and depart. his train have give him some small knowledge of character and he argue that fool be not give information which lead to call out eight thousand men besides gun. the commander in chief of all india doe not talk a kim have hear him talk to fool. nor would mahbub ali s tone have change a it do every time he mention the colonel s name if the colonel have be a fool. consequently and this set kim to skip there be a mystery somewhere and mahbub ali probably spy for the colonel much a kim have spy for mahbub. and like the horse dealer the colonel evidently respect people who do not show themselves to be too clever. 
he rejoice that he have not betray his knowledge of the colonel s house. and when on his return to barrack he discover that no cheroot case have be leave behind he beam with delight. here be a man after his own heart a tortuous and indirect person play a hide game. well if he could be a fool so could kim. 
he show nothing of his mind when father victor for three long morning discourse to him of an entirely new set of god and godlings notably of a goddess call mary who he gather be one with bibi miriam of mahbub ali s theology. he betray no emotion when after the lecture father victor drag him from shop to shop buy article of outfit nor when envious drummer boy kick him because he be go to a superior school do he complain but await the play of circumstance with an interest soul. father victor good man take him to the station put him into an empty second class next to colonel creighton s first and bid him farewell with genuine feel. 
they ll make a man o you o hara at st xavier s a white man an i hope a good man. they know all about your comin an the colonel will see that ye re not lose or mislay anywhere on the road. i ve give you a notion of religious matter at least i hope so and you ll remember when they ask you your religion that you re a cath lic. good say roman cath lic tho i m not fond of the word. 
kim light a rank cigarette he have be careful to buy a stock in the bazar and lay down to think. this solitary passage be very different from that joyful down journey in the third class with the lama. sahib get little pleasure of travel he reflect. 
hai mai. i go from one place to another a it might be a kickball. it be my kismet. no man can escape his kismet. but i be to pray to bibi miriam and i be a sahib. he look at his boot ruefully. no. i be kim. this be the great world and i be only kim. who be kim. he consider his own identity a thing he have never do before till his head swim. he be one insignificant person in all this roar whirl of india go southward to he know not what fate. 
presently the colonel send for him and talk for a long time. so far a kim could gather he be to be diligent and enter the survey of india a a chain man. if he be very good and pass the proper examination he would be earn thirty rupee a month at seventeen year old and colonel creighton would see that he find suitable employment. 
kim pretend at first to understand perhaps one word in three of this talk. then the colonel see his mistake turn to fluent and picturesque urdu and kim be content. no man could be a fool who know the language so intimately who move so gently and silently and whose eye be so different from the dull fat eye of other sahib. 
yes and thou must learn how to make picture of road and mountain and river to carry these picture in thine eye till a suitable time come to set them upon paper. perhaps some day when thou art a chain man i may say to thee when we be work together. go across those hill and see what lie beyond. then one will say. there be bad people live in those hill who will slay the chain man if he be see to look like a sahib. what then. 
kim think. would it be safe to return the colonel s lead. 
i would tell what that other man have say. 
but if i answer. i will give thee a hundred rupee for knowledge of what be behind those hill for a picture of a river and a little news of what the people say in the village there. 
how can i tell. i be only a boy. wait till i be a man. then see the colonel s brow cloud he go on. but i think i should in a few day earn the hundred rupee. 
by what road. 
kim shake his head resolutely. if i say how i would earn them another man might hear and forestall me. it be not good to sell knowledge for nothing. 
tell now. the colonel hold up a rupee. kim s hand half reach towards it and drop. 
nay sahib. nay. i know the price that will be pay for the answer but i do not know why the question be ask. 
take it for a gift then say creighton toss it over. there be a good spirit in thee. do not let it be blunt at st xavier s. there be many boy there who despise the black men. 
their mother be bazar woman say kim. he know well there be no hatred like that of the half caste for his brother in law. 
true. but thou art a sahib and the son of a sahib. therefore do not at any time be lead to contemn the black men. i have know boy newly enter into the service of the government who feign not to understand the talk or the custom of black men. their pay be cut for ignorance. there be no sin so great a ignorance. remember this. 
several time in the course of the long twenty four hour run south do the colonel send for kim always develop this latter text. 
we be all on one lead rope then say kim at last the colonel mahbub ali and i when i become a chain man. he will use me a mahbub ali employ me i think. that be good if it allow me to return to the road again. this clothe grow no easy by wear. 
when they come to the crowd lucknow station there be no sign of the lama. he swallow his disappointment while the colonel bundle him into a ticca gharri with his neat belonging and despatch him alone to st xavier s. 
i do not say farewell because we shall meet again he cry. again and many time if thou art one of good spirit. but thou art not yet try. 
not when i bring thee kim actually dare to use the turn of equal a white stallion s pedigree that night. 
much be gain by forget little brother say the colonel with a look that pierce through kim s shoulder blade a he scuttle into the carriage. 
it take him nearly five minute to recover. then he sniff the new air appreciatively. a rich city he say. rich than lahore. how good the bazar must be. coachman drive me a little through the bazar here. 
my order be to take thee to the school. the driver use the thou which be rudeness when apply to a white man. in the clear and most fluent vernacular kim point out his error climb on to the box seat and perfect understand establish drive for a couple of hour up and down estimate compare and enjoy. there be no city except bombay the queen of all more beautiful in her garish style than lucknow whether you see her from the bridge over the river or from the top of the imambara look down on the gild umbrella of the chutter munzil and the tree in which the town be bed. king have adorn her with fantastic building endow her with charity cram her with pensioner and drench her with blood. she be the centre of all idleness intrigue and luxury and share with delhi the claim to talk the only pure urdu. 
a fair city a beautiful city. the driver a a lucknow man be please with the compliment and tell kim many astound thing where an english guide would have talk of the mutiny. 
now we will go to the school say kim at last. the great old school of st xavier s in partibus block on block of low white building stand in vast ground over against the gumti river at some distance from the city. 
what like of folk be they within. say kim. 
young sahib all devil. but to speak truth and i drive many of them to and fro from the railway station i have never see one that have in him the make of a more perfect devil than thou this young sahib whom i be now drive. 
naturally for he be never train to consider them in any way improper kim have pass the time of day with one or two frivolous lady at upper window in a certain street and naturally in the exchange of compliment have acquit himself well. he be about to acknowledge the driver s last insolence when his eye it be grow dusk catch a figure sit by one of the white plaster gate pillar in the long sweep of wall. 
stop. he cry. stay here. i do not go to the school at once. 
but what be to pay me for this come and re come. say the driver petulantly. be the boy mad. last time it be a dance girl. this time it be a priest. 
kim be in the road headlong pat the dusty foot beneath the dirty yellow robe. 
i have wait here a day and a half the lama s level voice begin. nay i have a disciple with me. he that be my friend at the temple of the tirthankars give me a guide for this journey. i come from benares in the te rain when thy letter be give me. yes i be well feed. i need nothing. 
but why didst thou not stay with the kulu woman o holy one. in what way didst thou get to benares. my heart ha be heavy since we part. 
the woman weary me by constant flux of talk and require charm for child. i separate myself from that company permit her to acquire merit by gift. she be at least a woman of open hand and i make a promise to return to her house if need arise. then perceive myself alone in this great and terrible world i bethink me of the te rain to benares where i know one abide in the tirthankars temple who be a seeker even a i. 
ah. thy river say kim. i have forget the river. 
so soon my chela. i have never forget it. but when i have leave thee it seem good that i should go to the temple and take counsel for look you india be very large and it may be that wise men before u some two or three have leave a record of the place of our river. there be debate in the temple of the tirthankars on this matter. some say one thing and some another. they be courteous folk. 
so be it. but what dost thou do now. 
i acquire merit in that i help thee my chela to wisdom. the priest of that body of men who serve the red bull write me that all should be a i desire for thee. i send the money to suffice for one year and then i come a thou seest me to watch for thee go up into the gate of learn. a day and a half have i wait not because i be lead by any affection towards thee that be no part of the way but a they say at the tirthankars temple because money have be pay for learn it be right that i should oversee the end of the matter. they resolve my doubt most clearly. i have a fear that perhaps i come because i wish to see thee misguide by the red mist of affection. it be not so. moreover i be trouble by a dream. 
but surely holy one thou hast not forget the road and all that befall on it. surely it be a little to see me that thou didst come. 
the horse be cold and it be past their feed time whine the driver. 
go to jehannum and abide there with thy reputationless aunt. kim snarl over his shoulder. i be all alone in this land. i know not where i go nor what shall befall me. my heart be in that letter i send thee. except for mahbub ali and he be a pathan i have no friend save thee holy one. do not altogether go away. 
i have consider that also the lama reply in a shake voice. it be manifest that from time to time i shall acquire merit if before that i have not find my river by assure myself that thy foot be set on wisdom. what they will teach thee i do not know but the priest write me that no son of a sahib in all india will be good teach than thou. so from time to time therefore i will come again. maybe thou wilt be such a sahib a he who give me these spectacle the lama wipe them elaborately in the wonder house at lahore. that be my hope for he be a fountain of wisdom wise than many abbot. again maybe thou wilt forget me and our meeting. 
if i eat thy bread cry kim passionately how shall i ever forget thee. 
no no. he put the boy aside. i must go back to benares. from time to time now that i know the custom of letter writer in this land i will send thee a letter and from time to time i will come and see thee. 
but whither shall i send my letter. wail kim clutch at the robe all forgetful that he be a sahib. 
to the temple of the tirthankars at benares. that be the place i have choose till i find my river. do not weep. for look you all desire be illusion and a new bind upon the wheel. go up to the gate of learn. let me see thee go. dost thou love me. then go or my heart crack. i will come again. surely i will come again. 
the lama watch the ticca gharri rumble into the compound and stride off snuff between each long stride. 
the gate of learn shut with a clang. 
the country bear and breed boy ha his own manner and custom which do not resemble those of any other land. and his teacher approach him by road which an english master would not understand. therefore you would scarcely be interest in kim s experience a a st xavier s boy among two or three hundred precocious youth most of whom have never see the sea. he suffer the usual penalty for break out of bound when there be cholera in the city. this be before he have learn to write fair english and so be oblige to find a bazar letter writer. he be of course indict for smoke and for the use of abuse more full flavour than even st xavier s have ever hear. he learn to wash himself with the levitical scrupulosity of the native bear who in his heart consider the englishman rather dirty. he play the usual trick on the patient cooly pull the punkah in the sleep room where the boy thresh through the hot night tell tale till the dawn. and quietly he measure himself against his self reliant mate. 
they be son of subordinate official in the railway telegraph and canal service. of warrant officer sometimes retire and sometimes act a commander in chief to a feudatory rajah s army. of captain of the indian marine government pensioner planter presidency shopkeeper and missionary. a few be cadet of the old eurasian house that have take strong root in dhurrumtollah pereiras de souzas and d silva. their parent could well have educate them in england but they love the school that have serve their own youth and generation follow sallow hue generation at st xavier s. their home range from howrah of the railway people to abandon cantonment like monghyr and chunar. lose tea garden shillong way. village where their father be large landholder in oudh or the deccan. mission station a week from the near railway line. seaport a thousand mile south face the brazen indian surf. and cinchona plantation south of all. the mere story of their adventure which to them be no adventure on their road to and from school would have crisp a western boy s hair. they be use to jog off alone through a hundred mile of jungle where there be always the delightful chance of be delay by tiger. but they would no more have bath in the english channel in an english august than their brother across the world would have lie still while a leopard snuff at their palanquin. there be boy of fifteen who have spend a day and a half on an islet in the middle of a flood river take charge a by right of a camp of frantic pilgrim return from a shrine. there be senior who have requisition a chance meet rajah s elephant in the name of st francis xavier when the rain once blot out the cart track that lead to their father s estate and have all but lose the huge beast in a quicksand. there be a boy who he say and none doubt have help his father to beat off with rifle from the veranda a rush of akas in the day when those head hunter be bold against lonely plantation. 
and every tale be tell in the even passionless voice of the native bear mix with quaint reflection borrow unconsciously from native foster mother and turn of speech that show they have be that instant translate from the vernacular. kim watch listen and approve. this be not insipid single word talk of drummer boy. it deal with a life he know and in part understand. the atmosphere suit him and he thrive by inch. they give him a white drill suit a the weather warm and he rejoice in the new find bodily comfort a he rejoice to use his sharpen mind over the task they set him. his quickness would have delight an english master. but at st xavier s they know the first rush of mind develop by sun and surround a they know the half collapse that set in at twenty two or twenty three. 
none the le he remember to hold himself lowly. when tale be tell of hot night kim do not sweep the board with his reminiscence. for st xavier s look down on boy who go native all together. one must never forget that one be a sahib and that some day when examination be pass one will command native. kim make a note of this for he begin to understand where examination lead. 
then come the holiday from august to october the long holiday impose by the heat and the rain. kim be inform that he would go north to some station in the hill behind umballa where father victor would arrange for him. 
a barrack school. say kim who have ask many question and think more. 
yes i suppose so say the master. it will not do you any harm to keep you out of mischief. you can go up with young de castro a far a delhi. 
kim consider it in every possible light. he have be diligent even a the colonel advise. a boy s holiday be his own property of so much the talk of his companion have advise him and a barrack school would be torment after st xavier s. moreover this be magic worth anything else he could write. in three month he have discover how men can speak to each other without a third party at the cost of half an anna and a little knowledge. no word have come from the lama but there remain the road. kim yearn for the caress of soft mud squish up between the toe a his mouth water for mutton stew with butter and cabbage for rice speckle with strong scent cardamom for the saffron tint rice garlic and onion and the forbid greasy sweetmeat of the bazar. they would fee him raw beef on a platter at the barrack school and he must smoke by stealth. but again he be a sahib and be at st xavier s and that pig mahbub ali. no he would not test mahbub s hospitality and yet. he think it out alone in the dormitory and come to the conclusion he have be unjust to mahbub. 
the school be empty. nearly all the master have go away. colonel creighton s railway pas lay in his hand and kim puff himself that he have not spend colonel creighton s or mahbub s money in riotous live. he be still lord of two rupee seven anna. his new bullock trunk mark k. o h. and bed roll lay in the empty sleep room. 
sahib be always tie to their baggage say kim nod at them. you will stay here he go out into the warm rain smile sinfully and seek a certain house whose outside he have note down some time before. 
arre. dost thou know what manner of woman we be in this quarter. oh shame. 
be i bear yesterday. kim squat native fashion on the cushion of that upper room. a little dyestuff and three yard of cloth to help out a jest. be it much to ask. 
who be she. thou art full young a sahib go for this devilry. 
oh she. she be the daughter of a certain schoolmaster of a regiment in the cantonment. he ha beat me twice because i go over their wall in these clothe. now i would go a a gardener s boy. old men be very jealous. 
that be true. hold thy face still while i dab on the juice. 
not too black naikan. i would not appear to her a a hubshi. nigger. 
oh love make nought of these thing. and how old be she. 
twelve year i think say the shameless kim. spread it also on the breast. it may be her father will tear my clothe off me and if i be piebald he laugh. 
the girl work busily dab a twist of cloth into a little saucer of brown dye that hold long than any walnut juice. 
now send out and get me a cloth for the turban. woe be me my head be all unshaved. and he will surely knock off my turban. 
i be not a barber but i will make shift. thou wast bear to be a breaker of heart. all this disguise for one even. remember the stuff doe not wash away. she shake with laughter till her bracelet and anklet jingle. but who be to pay me for this. huneefa herself could not have give thee good stuff. 
trust in the god my sister say kim gravely screw his face round a the stain dry. besides hast thou ever help to paint a sahib thus before. 
never indeed. but a jest be not money. 
it be worth much more. 
child thou art beyond all dispute the most shameless son of shaitan that i have ever know to take up a poor girl s time with this play and then to say. be not the jest enough. thou wilt go very far in this world. she give the dance girl salutation in mockery. 
all one. make haste and rough cut my head. kim shift from foot to foot his eye ablaze with mirth a he think of the fat day before him. he give the girl four anna and run down the stair in the liken of a low caste hindu boy perfect in every detail. a cookshop be his next point of call where he feast in extravagance and greasy luxury. 
on lucknow station platform he watch young de castro all cover with prickly heat get into a second class compartment. kim patronize a third and be the life and soul of it. he explain to the company that he be assistant to a juggler who have leave him behind sick with fever and that he would pick up his master at umballa. a the occupant of the carriage change he vary this tale or adorn it with all the shoot of a bud fancy the more rampant for be hold off native speech so long. in all india that night be no human be so joyful a kim. at umballa he get out and head eastward plash over the sodden field to the village where the old soldier live. 
about this time colonel creighton at simla be advise from lucknow by wire that young o hara have disappear. mahbub ali be in town sell horse and to him the colonel confide the affair one morning canter round annandale racecourse. 
oh that be nothing say the horse dealer. men be like horse. at certain time they need salt and if that salt be not in the manger they will lick it up from the earth. he ha go back to the road again for a while. the madrissak weary him. i know it would. another time i will take him upon the road myself. do not be trouble creighton sahib. it be a though a polo pony break loose run out to learn the game alone. 
then he be not dead think you. 
fever might kill him. i do not fear for the boy otherwise. a monkey doe not fall among tree. 
next morning on the same course mahbub s stallion range alongside the colonel. 
it be a i have think say the horse dealer. he ha come through umballa at least and there he ha write a letter to me have learn in the bazar that i be here. 
read say the colonel with a sigh of relief. it be absurd that a man of his position should take an interest in a little country breed vagabond. but the colonel remember the conversation in the train and often in the past few month have catch himself think of the queer silent self possess boy. his evasion of course be the height of insolence but it argue some resource and nerve. 
mahbub s eye twinkle a he rein out into the centre of the cramp little plain where none could come near unseen. 
the friend of the star who be the friend of all the world. 
what be this. 
a name we give him in lahore city. the friend of all the world take leave to go to his own place. he will come back upon the appoint day. let the box and the bed roll be send for. and if there ha be a fault let the hand of friendship turn aside the whip of calamity. there be yet a little more but. 
no matter read. 
certain thing be not know to those who eat with fork. it be good to eat with both hand for a while. speak soft word to those who do not understand this that the return may be propitious. now the manner in which that be cast be of course the work of the letter writer but see how wisely the boy ha devise the matter of it so that no hint be give except to those who know. 
be this the hand of friendship to avert the whip of calamity. laugh the colonel. 
see how wise be the boy. he would go back to the road again a i say. not know yet thy trade. 
i be not at all sure of that the colonel mutter. 
he turn to me to make a peace between you. be he not wise. he say he will return. he be but perfect his knowledge. think sahib. he ha be three month at the school. and he be not mouth to that bite. for my part i rejoice. the pony learn the game. 
ay but another time he must not go alone. 
why. he go alone before he come under the colonel sahib s protection. when he come to the great game he must go alone alone and at peril of his head. then if he spit or sneeze or sit down other than a the people do whom he watch he may be slay. why hind him now. remember how the persian say. the jackal that life in the wild of mazanderan can only be catch by the hound of mazanderan. 
true. it be true mahbub ali. and if he come to no harm i do not desire anything good. but it be great insolence on his part. 
he doe not tell me even whither he go say mahbub. he be no fool. when his time be accomplish he will come to me. it be time the healer of pearl take him in hand. he ripen too quickly a sahib reckon. 
this prophecy be fulfil to the letter a month late. mahbub have go down to umballa to bring up a fresh consignment of horse and kim meet him on the kalka road at dusk rid alone beg an alms of him be swear at and reply in english. there be nobody within earshot to hear mahbub s gasp of amazement. 
oho. and where hast thou be. 
up and down down and up. 
come under a tree out of the wet and tell. 
i stay for a while with an old man near umballa. anon with a household of my acquaintance in umballa. with one of these i go a far a delhi to the southward. that be a wondrous city. then i drive a bullock for a teli [an oilman] come north. but i hear of a great feast forward in patiala and thither go i in the company of a firework maker. it be a great feast. kim rub his stomach. i saw rajah and elephant with gold and silver trapping. and they light all the firework at once whereby eleven men be kill my fire work maker among them and i be blow across a tent but take no harm. then i come back to the rel with a sikh horseman to whom i be groom for my bread. and so here. 
shabash. say mahbub ali. 
but what doe the colonel sahib say. i do not wish to be beat. 
the hand of friendship ha avert the whip of calamity. but another time when thou takest the road it will be with me. this be too early. 
late enough for me. i have learn to read and to write english a little at the madrissah. i shall soon be altogether a sahib. 
hear him. laugh mahbub look at the little drench figure dance in the wet. salaam sahib and he salute ironically. 
well art tire of the road or wilt thou come on to umballa with me and work back with the horse. 
i come with thee mahbub ali. 
chapter. 
something i owe to the soil that grow more to the life that feed but most to allah who give me two separate side to my head. 
i would go without shirt or shoe friend tobacco or bread sooner than for an instant lose either side of my head. 
the two side man. 
then in god s name take blue for red say mahbub allude to the hindu colour of kim s disreputable turban. 
kim counter with the old proverb i will change my faith and my bed but thou must pay for it. 
the dealer laugh till he nearly fell from his horse. at a shop on the outskirt of the city the change be make and kim stand up externally at least a mohammedan. 
mahbub hire a room over against the railway station send for a cook meal of the fine with the almond curd sweet meat [balushai we call it] and fine chop lucknow tobacco. 
this be good than some other meat that i eat with the sikh say kim grin a he squat and assuredly they give no such victual at my madrissah. 
i have a desire to hear of that same madrissah. mahbub stuff himself with great bolus of spice mutton fry in fat with cabbage and golden brown onion. but tell me first altogether and truthfully the manner of thy escape. for o friend of all the world he loose his crack belt i do not think it be often that a sahib and the son of a sahib run away from there. 
how should they. they do not know the land. it be nothing say kim and begin his tale. when he come to the disguisement and the interview with the girl in the bazar mahbub ali s gravity go from him. he laugh aloud and beat his hand on his thigh. 
shabash. shabash. oh well do little one. what will the healer of turquoise say to this. now slowly let u hear what befall afterwards step by step omit nothing. 
step by step then kim tell his adventure between cough a the full flavour tobacco catch his lung. 
i say growl mahbub ali to himself i say it be the pony break out to play polo. the fruit be ripe already except that he must learn his distance and his pacing and his rod and his compass. listen now. i have turn aside the colonel s whip from thy skin and that be no small service. 
true. kim pull serenely. that be true. 
but it be not to be think that this run out and in be any way good. 
it be my holiday hajji. i be a slave for many week. why should i not run away when the school be shut. look too how i live upon my friend or work for my bread a i do with the sikh have save the colonel sahib a great expense. 
mahbub s lip twitch under his well prune mohammedan moustache. 
what be a few rupee the pathan throw out his open hand carelessly to the colonel sahib. he spend them for a purpose not in any way for love of thee. 
that say kim slowly i know a very long time ago. 
who tell. 
the colonel sahib himself. not in those many word but plainly enough for one who be not altogether a mud head. yea he tell me in the te rain when we go down to lucknow. 
be it so. then i will tell thee more friend of all the world though in the tell i lend thee my head. 
it be forfeit to me say kim with deep relish in umballa when thou didst pick me up on the horse after the drummer boy beat me. 
speak a little plain. all the world may tell lie save thou and i. for equally be thy life forfeit to me if i choose to raise my finger here. 
and this be know to me also say kim readjust the live charcoal ball on the weed. it be a very sure tie between u. indeed thy hold be sure even than mine. for who would miss a boy beat to death or it may be throw into a well by the roadside. most people here and in simla and across the pass behind the hill would on the other hand say. what ha come to mahbub ali. if he be find dead among his horse. surely too the colonel sahib would make inquiry. but again kim s face pucker with cunning he would not make overlong inquiry l people should ask. what ha this colonel sahib to do with that horse dealer. but i if i live. 
a thou wouldst surely die. 
maybe. but i say if i live i and i alone would know that one have come by night a a common thief perhaps to mahbub ali s bulkhead in the serai and there have slay him either before or after that thief have make a full search into his saddlebag and between the sol of his slipper. be that news to tell to the colonel or would he say to me. i have not forget when he send me back for a cigar case that he have not leave behind him. what be mahbub ali to me. 
up go a gout of heavy smoke. there be a long pause. then mahbub ali speak in admiration. and with these thing on thy mind dost thou lie down and rise again among all the sahib little son at the madrissah and meekly take instruction from thy teacher. 
it be an order say kim blandly. who be i to dispute an order. 
a most finish son of eblis say mahbub ali. but what be this tale of the thief and the search. 
that which i saw say kim the night that my lama and i lay next thy place in the kashmir seral. the door be leave unlock which i think be not thy custom mahbub. he come in a one assure that thou wouldst not soon return. my eye be against a knot hole in the plank. he search a it be for something not a rug not stirrup nor a bridle nor brass pot something little and most carefully hide. else why do he prick with an iron between the sol of thy slipper. 
ha. mahbub ali smile gently. and see these thing what tale didst thou fashion to thyself well of the truth. 
none. i put my hand upon my amulet which lie always next to my skin and remember the pedigree of a white stallion that i have bite out of a piece of mussalmani bread i go away to umballa perceive that a heavy trust be lay upon me. at that hour have i choose thy head be forfeit. it need only to say to that man i have here a paper concern a horse which i cannot read. and then. kim peer at mahbub under his eyebrow. 
then thou wouldst have drink water twice perhaps thrice afterwards. i do not think more than thrice say mahbub simply. 
it be true. i think of that a little but most i think that i love thee mahbub. therefore i go to umballa a thou knowest but. and this thou dost not know. i lay hide in the garden grass to see what colonel creighton sahib might do upon read the white stallion s pedigree. 
and what do he. for kim have bite off the conversation. 
dost thou give news for love or dost thou sell it. kim ask. 
i sell and i buy. mahbub take a four anna piece out of his belt and hold it up. 
eight. say kim mechanically follow the huckster instinct of the east. 
mahbub laugh and put away the coin. it be too easy to deal in that market friend of all the world. tell me for love. our life lie in each other s hand. 
very good. i saw the jang i lat sahib [the commander in chief] come to a big dinner. i saw him in creighton sahib s office. i saw the two read the white stallion s pedigree. i hear the very order give for the open of a great war. 
hah. mahbub nod with deep eye afire. the game be well play. that war be do now and the evil we hope nip before the flower thank to me and thee. what didst thou late. 
i make the news a it be a hook to catch me victual and honour among the villager in a village whose priest drug my lama. but i bore away the old man s purse and the brahmin find nothing. so next morning he be angry. ho. ho. and i also use the news when i fell into the hand of that white regiment with their bull. 
that be foolishness. mahbub scowl. news be not mean to be throw about like dung cake but use sparingly like bhang. 
so i think now and moreover it do me no sort of good. but that be very long ago he make a to brush it all away with a thin brown hand and since then and especially in the night under the punkah at the madrissah i have think very greatly. 
be it permit to ask whither the heaven bear s think might have lead. say mahbub with an elaborate sarcasm smooth his scarlet beard. 
it be permit say kim and throw back the very tone. they say at nucklao that no sahib must tell a black man that he ha make a fault. 
mahbub s hand shoot into his bosom for to call a pathan a black man [kala admi] be a blood insult. then he remember and laugh. speak sahib. thy black man hear. 
but say kim i be not a sahib and i say i make a fault to curse thee mahbub ali on that day at umballa when i think i be betray by a pathan. i be senseless. for i be but newly catch and i wish to kill that low caste drummer boy. i say now hajji that it be well do. and i see my road all clear before me to a good service. i will stay in the madrissah till i be ripe. 
well say. especially be distance and number and the manner of use compass to be learn in that game. one wait in the hill above to show thee. 
i will learn their teach upon a condition that my time be give to me without question when the madrissah be shut. ask that for me of the colonel. 
but why not ask the colonel in the sahib tongue. 
the colonel be the servant of the government. he be send hither and yon at a word and must consider his own advancement. see how much i have already learn at nucklao. moreover the colonel i know since three month only. i have know one mahbub ali for six year. so. to the madrissah i will go. at the madrissah i will learn. in the madrissah i will be a sahib. but when the madrissah be shut then must i be free and go among my people. otherwise i die. 
and who be thy people friend of all the world. 
this great and beautiful land say kim wave his paw round the little clay wall room where the oil lamp in it niche burn heavily through the tobacco smoke. and further i would see my lama again. and further i need money. 
that be the need of everyone say mahbub ruefully. i will give thee eight anna for much money be not pick out of horse hoof and it must suffice for many day. a to all the rest i be well please and no further talk be need. make haste to learn and in three year or it may be le thou wilt be an aid even to me. 
have i be such a hindrance till now. say kim with a boy s giggle. 
do not give answer mahbub grunt. thou art my new horse boy. go and bed among my men. they be near the north end of the station with the horse. 
they will beat me to the south end of the station if i come without authority. 
mahbub felt in his belt wet his thumb on a cake of chinese ink and dab the impression on a piece of soft native paper. from balkh to bombay men know that rough ridge print with the old scar run diagonally across it. 
that be enough to show my headman. i come in the morning. 
by which road. say kim. 
by the road from the city. there be but one and then we return to creighton sahib. i have save thee a beat. 
allah. what be a beat when the very head be loose on the shoulder. 
kim slide out quietly into the night walk half round the house keep close to the wall and head away from the station for a mile or so. then fetch a wide compass he work back at leisure for he need time to invent a story if any of mahbub s retainer ask question. 
they be camp on a piece of waste grind beside the railway and be native have not of course unload the two truck in which mahbub s animal stand among a consignment of country breds buy by the bombay tram company. the headman a break down consumptive look mohammedan promptly challenge kim but be pacify at sight of mahbub s sign manual. 
the hajji ha of his favour give me service say kim testily. if this be doubt wait till he come in the morning. meantime a place by the fire. 
follow the usual aimless babble that every low caste native must raise on every occasion. it die down and kim lay out behind the little knot of mahbub s follower almost under the wheel of a horse truck a borrow blanket for cover. now a bed among brickbat and ballast refuse on a damp night between overcrowd horse and unwashed baltis would not appeal to many white boy. but kim be utterly happy. change of scene service and surround be the breath of his little nostril and think of the neat white cot of st xavier s all arow under the punkah give him joy a keen a the repetition of the multiplication table in english. 
i be very old he think sleepily. every month i become a year more old. i be very young and a fool to boot when i take mahbub s message to umballa. even when i be with that white regiment i be very young and small and have no wisdom. but now i learn every day and in three year the colonel will take me out of the madrissah and let me go upon the road with mahbub hunt for horse pedigree or maybe i shall go by myself. or maybe i shall find the lama and go with him. yes. that be best. to walk again a a chela with my lama when he come back to benares. 
the thought come more slowly and disconnectedly. he be plunge into a beautiful dreamland when his ear catch a whisper thin and sharp above the monotonous babble round the fire. it come from behind the iron skin horse truck. 
he be not here then. 
where should he be but roystering in the city. who look for a rat in a frog pond. come away. he be not our man. 
he must not go back beyond the pass a second time. it be the order. 
hire some woman to drug him. it be a few rupee only and there be no evidence. 
except the woman. it must be more certain. and remember the price upon his head. 
ay but the police have a long arm and we be far from the border. if it be in peshawur now. 
yes in peshawur the second voice sneer. peshawur full of his blood kin full of bolt hole and woman behind whose clothe he will hide. yes peshawur or jehannum would suit u equally well. 
then what be the plan. 
o fool have i not tell it a hundred time. wait till he come to lie down and then one sure shoot. the truck be between u and pursuit. we have but to run back over the line and go our way. they will not see whence the shoot come. wait here at least till the dawn. what manner of fakir art thou to shiver at a little watch. 
oho. think kim behind close shut eye. once again it be mahbub. indeed a white stallion s pedigree be not a good thing to peddle to sahib. or maybe mahbub ha be sell other news. now what be to do kim. i know not where mahbub house and if he come here before the dawn they will shoot him. that would be no profit for thee kim. and this be not a matter for the police. that would be no profit for mahbub. and he giggle almost aloud i do not remember any lesson at nucklao which will help me. allah. here be kim and yonder be they. first then kim must wake and go away so that they shall not suspect. a bad dream wake a man thus. 
he throw the blanket off his face and raise himself suddenly with the terrible bubble meaningless yell of the asiatic rouse by nightmare. 
urr urr urr urr. ya la la la la. narain. the churel. the churel. 
a churel be the peculiarly malignant ghost of a woman who ha die in child bed. she haunt lonely road her foot be turn backwards on the ankle and she lead men to torment. 
loud rise kim s quaver howl till at last he leap to his foot and stagger off sleepily while the camp curse him for wake them. some twenty yard farther up the line he lay down again take care that the whisperer should hear his grunt and groan a he recomposed himself. after a few minute he roll towards the road and steal away into the thick darkness. 
he paddle along swiftly till he come to a culvert and drop behind it his chin on a level with the cop stone. here he could command all the night traffic himself unseen. 
two or three cart pass jingle out to the suburb. a cough policeman and a hurry foot passenger or two who sing to keep off evil spirit. then rap the shoe foot of a horse. 
ah. this be more like mahbub think kim a the beast shy at the little head above the culvert. 
ohe mahbub ali he whisper have a care. 
the horse be rein back almost on it haunch and force towards the culvert. 
never again say mahbub will i take a shoe horse for night work. they pick up all the bone and nail in the city. he stoop to lift it forefoot and that bring his head within a foot of kim s. 
down keep down he mutter. the night be full of eye. 
two men wait thy come behind the horse truck. they will shoot thee at thy lie down because there be a price on thy head. i hear sleep near the horse. 
didst thou see them. hold still sire of devil. this furiously to the horse. 
no. 
be one dress belike a a fakir. 
one say to the other what manner of fakir art thou to shiver at a little watch. 
good. go back to the camp and lie down. i do not die tonight. 
mahbub wheel his horse and vanish. kim tear back down the ditch till he reach a point opposite his second rest place slip across the road like a weasel and re coil himself in the blanket. 
at least mahbub know he think contentedly. and certainly he speak a one expect it. i do not think those two men will profit by tonight s watch. 
an hour pass and with the best will in the world to keep awake all night he sleep deeply. now and again a night train roar along the metal within twenty foot of him. but he have all the oriental s indifference to mere noise and it do not even weave a dream through his slumber. 
mahbub be anything but asleep. it annoy him vehemently that people outside his tribe and unaffected by his casual amour should pursue him for the life. his first and natural impulse be to cross the line low down work up again and catch his well wishers from behind summarily slay them. here he reflect with sorrow another branch of the government totally unconnected with colonel creighton might demand explanation which would be hard to supply. and he know that south of the border a perfectly ridiculous fuss be make about a corpse or so. he have not be trouble in this way since he send kim to umballa with the message and hop that suspicion have be finally divert. 
then a most brilliant notion strike him. 
the english do eternally tell the truth he say therefore we of this country be eternally make foolish. by allah i will tell the truth to an englishman. of what use be the government police if a poor kabuli be rob of his horse in their very truck. this be a bad a peshawur. i should lay a complaint at the station. good still some young sahib on the railway. they be zealous and if they catch thief it be remember to their honour. 
he tie up his horse outside the station and stride on to the platform. 
hullo mahbub ali say a young assistant district traffic superintendent who be wait to go down the line a tall tow haired horsey youth in dingy white linen. what be you do here. sell weed eh. 
no. i be not trouble for my horse. i come to look for lutuf ullah. i have a truck load up the line. could anyone take them out without the railway s knowledge. 
shouldn t think so mahbub. you can claim against u if they do. 
i have see two men crouch under the wheel of one of the truck nearly all night. fakir do not steal horse so i give them no more think. i would find lutuf ullah my partner. 
the deuce you do. and you didn t bother your head about it. pon my word it s just almost a well that i meet you. what be they like eh. 
they be only fakir. they will no more than take a little grain perhaps from one of the truck. there be many up the line. the state will never miss the dole. i come here seek for my partner lutuf ullah. 
never mind your partner. where be your horse truck. 
a little to this side of the farthest place where they make lamp for the train. 
the signal box. yes. 
and upon the rail near to the road upon the right hand side look up the line thus. but a regard lutuf ullah a tall man with a break nose and a persian greyhound aie. 
the boy have hurry off to wake up a young and enthusiastic policeman. for a he say the railway have suffer much from depredation in the good yard. mahbub ali chuckle in his dye beard. 
they will walk in their boot make a noise and then they will wonder why there be no fakir. they be very clever boy barton sahib and young sahib. 
he wait idly for a few minute expect to see them hurry up the line gird for action. a light engine slide through the station and he catch a glimpse of young barton in the cab. 
i do that child an injustice. he be not altogether a fool say mahbub ali. to take a fire carriage for a thief be a new game. 
when mahbub ali come to his camp in the dawn no one think it worth while to tell him any news of the night. no one at least but one small horseboy newly advance to the great man s service whom mahbub call to his tiny tent to assist in some pack. 
it be all know to me whisper kim bend above saddlebag. two sahib come up on a te train. i be run to and fro in the dark on this side of the truck a the te train move up and down slowly. they fell upon two men sit under this truck hajji what shall i do with this lump of tobacco. wrap it in paper and put it under the salt bag. yes and strike them down. but one man strike at a sahib with a fakir s buck s horn. kim mean the conjoin black buck horn which be a fakir s sole temporal weapon. the blood come. so the other sahib first smite his own man senseless smite the stabber with a short gun which have roll from the first man s hand. they all rag a though mad together. 
mahbub smile with heavenly resignation. no. that be not so much dewanee [madness or a case for the civil court the word can be pun upon both ways] a nizamut [a criminal case]. a gun sayest thou. ten good year in jail. 
then they both lay still but i think they be nearly dead when they be put on the te train. their head move thus. and there be much blood on the line. come and see. 
i have see blood before. jail be the sure place and assuredly they will give false name and assuredly no man will find them for a long time. they be unfriends of mine. thy fate and mine seem on one string. what a tale for the healer of pearl. now swiftly with the saddle bag and the cook platter. we will take out the horse and away to simla. 
swiftly a oriental understand speed with long explanation with abuse and windy talk carelessly amid a hundred check for little thing forget the untidy camp break up and lead the half dozen stiff and fretful horse along the kalka road in the fresh of the rain sweep dawn. kim regard a mahbub ali s favourite by all who wish to stand well with the pathan be not call upon to work. they stroll on by the easy of stage halt every few hour at a wayside shelter. very many sahib travel along the kalka road. and a mahbub ali say every young sahib must need esteem himself a judge of a horse and though he be over head in debt to the money lender must make a if to buy. that be the reason that sahib after sahib roll along in a stage carriage would stop and open talk. some would even descend from their vehicle and feel the horse leg. ask inane question or through sheer ignorance of the vernacular grossly insult the imperturbable trader. 
when first i deal with sahib and that be when colonel soady sahib be governor of fort abazai and flood the commissioner s camp grind for spite mahbub confide to kim a the boy fill his pipe under a tree i do not know how greatly they be fool and this make me wroth. a thus and he tell kim a tale of an expression misuse in all innocence that double kim up with mirth. now i see however he exhale smoke slowly that it be with them a with all men in certain matter they be wise and in others most foolish. very foolish it be to use the wrong word to a strange. for though the heart may be clean of offence how be the strange to know that. he be more like to search truth with a dagger. 
true. true talk say kim solemnly. fool speak of a cat when a woman be bring to bed for instance. i have hear them. 
therefore in one situate a thou art it particularly behove thee to remember this with both kind of face. among sahib never forget thou art a sahib. among the folk of hind always remember thou art he pause with a puzzle smile. 
what be i. mussalman hindu jain or buddhist. that be a hard knot. 
thou art beyond question an unbeliever and therefore thou wilt be damn. so say my law or i think it doe. but thou art also my little friend of all the world and i love thee. so say my heart. this matter of creed be like horseflesh. the wise man know horse be good that there be a profit to be make from all. and for myself but that i be a good sunni and hate the men of tirah i could believe the same of all the faith. now manifestly a kathiawar mare take from the sand of her birthplace and remove to the west of bengal founder nor be even a balkh stallion. and there be no good horse than those of balkh be they not so heavy in the shoulder. of any account in the great northern desert beside the snow camel i have see. therefore i say in my heart the faith be like the horse. each ha merit in it own country. 
but my lama say altogether a different thing. 
oh he be an old dreamer of dream from bhotiyal. my heart be a little angry friend of all the world that thou shouldst see such worth in a man so little know. 
it be true hajji. but that worth do i see and to him my heart be draw. 
and his to thine i hear. heart be like horse. they come and they go against bite or spur. shout gul sher khan yonder to drive in that bay stallion s picket more firmly. we do not want a horse fight at every rest stage and the dun and the black will be lock in a little. now hear me. be it necessary to the comfort of thy heart to see that lama. 
it be one part of my bond say kim. if i do not see him and if he be take from me i will go out of that madrissah in nucklao and and once go who be to find me again. 
it be true. never be colt hold on a light heel rope than thou. mahbub nod his head. 
do not be afraid. kim speak a though he could have vanish on the moment. my lama ha say that he will come to see me at the madrissah. 
a beggar and his bowl in the presence of those young sa. 
not all. kim cut in with a snort. their eye be blue and their nail be blacken with low caste blood many of them. son of mehteranees brother in law to the bhungi [sweeper]. 
we need not follow the rest of the pedigree. but kim make his little point clearly and without heat chew a piece of sugar cane the while. 
friend of all the world say mahbub push over the pipe for the boy to clean i have meet many men woman and boy and not a few sahib. i have never in all my day meet such an imp a thou art. 
and why. when i always tell thee the truth. 
perhaps the very reason for this be a world of danger to honest men. mahbub ali haul himself off the grind gird in his belt and go over to the horse. 
or sell it. 
there be that in the tone that make mahbub halt and turn. what new devilry. 
eight anna and i will tell say kim grin. it touch thy peace. 
o shaitan. mahbub give the money. 
rememberest thou the little business of the thief in the dark down yonder at umballa. 
see they seek my life i have not altogether forget. why. 
rememberest thou the kashmir serai. 
i will twist thy ear in a moment sahib. 
no need pathan. only the second fakir whom the sahib beat senseless be the man who come to search thy bulkhead at lahore. i saw his face a they help him on the engine. the very same man. 
why didst thou not tell before. 
oh he will go to jail and be safe for some year. there be no need to tell more than be necessary at any one time. besides i do not then need money for sweetmeat. 
allah kerim. say mahbub ah. wilt thou some day sell my head for a few sweetmeat if the fit take thee. 
kim will remember till he dy that long lazy journey from umballa through kalka and the pinjore garden near by up to simla. a sudden spate in the gugger river sweep down one horse. the most valuable be sure. and nearly drown kim among the dance boulder. farther up the road the horse be stampede by a government elephant and be in high condition of grass food it cost a day and a half to get them together again. then they meet sikandar khan come down with a few unsaleable screw remnant of his string and mahbub who ha more of horse cop in his little fingernail than sikandar khan in all his tent must need buy two of the bad and that mean eight hour laborious diplomacy and untold tobacco. but it be all pure delight the wander road climb dip and sweep about the grow spur. the flush of the morning lay along the distant snow. the branch cactus tier upon tier on the stony hillside. the voice of a thousand water channel. the chatter of the monkey. the solemn deodar climb one after another with down droop branch. the vista of the plain roll out far beneath them. the incessant twang of the tonga horn and the wild rush of the lead horse when a tonga swing round a curve. the halt for prayer. mahbub be very religious in dry washing and bellowing when time do not press. the even conference by the halt place when camel and bullock chew solemnly together and the stolid driver tell the news of the road all these thing lift kim s heart to song within him. 
but when the sing and dance be do say mahbub ali come the colonel sahib s and that be not so sweet. 
a fair land a most beautiful land be this of hind and the land of the five river be fair than all kim half chant. into it i will go again if mahbub ali or the colonel lift hand or foot against me. once go who shall find me. look hajji be yonder the city of simla. allah what a city. 
my father s brother and he be an old man when mackerson sahib s well be new at peshawur could recall when there be but two house in it. 
he lead the horse below the main road into the low simla bazar the crowd rabbit warren that climb up from the valley to the town hall at an angle of forty five. a man who know his way there can defy all the police of india s summer capital so cunningly doe veranda communicate with veranda alley way with alley way and bolt hole with bolt hole. here live those who minister to the want of the glad city jhampanis who pull the pretty lady rickshaw by night and gamble till the dawn. grocer oil seller curio vendor firewood dealer priest pickpocket and native employee of the government. here be discuss by courtesan the thing which be suppose to be profound secret of the india council. and here gather all the sub sub agent of half the native state. here too mahbub ali rent a room much more securely lock than his bulkhead at lahore in the house of a mohammedan cattle dealer. it be a place of miracle too for there go in at twilight a mohammedan horseboy and there come out an hour late a eurasian lad the lucknow girl s dye be of the best in badly fit shop clothe. 
i have speak with creighton sahib quoth mahbub ali and a second time ha the hand of friendship avert the whip of calamity. he say that thou hast altogether waste sixty day upon the road and it be too late therefore to send thee to any hill school. 
i have say that my holiday be my own. i do not go to school twice over. that be one part of my bond. 
the colonel sahib be not yet aware of that contract. thou art to lodge in lurgan sahib s house till it be time to go again to nucklao. 
i have sooner lodge with thee mahbub. 
thou dost not know the honour. lurgan sahib himself ask for thee. thou wilt go up the hill and along the road atop and there thou must forget for a while that thou hast ever see or speak to me mahbub ali who sell horse to creighton sahib whom thou dost not know. remember this order. 
kim nod. good say he and who be lurgan sahib. nay he catch mahbub s sword keen glance indeed i have never hear his name. be he by chance he lower his voice one of u. 
what talk be this of u sahib. mahbub ali return in the tone he use towards european. i be a pathan. thou art a sahib and the son of a sahib. lurgan sahib ha a shop among the european shop. all simla know it. ask there. and friend of all the world he be one to be obey to the last wink of his eyelash. men say he doe magic but that should not touch thee. go up the hill and ask. here begin the great game. 
chapter. 
s doaks be son of yelth the wise chief of the raven clan. itswoot the bear have him in care to make him a medicine man. 
he be quick and quick to learn bold and bold to dare. he dance the dread kloo kwallie dance to tickle itswoot the bear. 
oregon legend. 
kim fling himself whole heartedly upon the next turn of the wheel. he would be a sahib again for a while. in that idea so soon a he have reach the broad road under simla town hall he cast about for one to impress. a hindu child some ten year old squat under a lamp post. 
where be mr lurgan s house. demand kim. 
i do not understand english be the answer and kim shift his speech accordingly. 
i will show. 
together they set off through the mysterious dusk full of the noise of a city below the hillside and the breath of a cool wind in deodar crown jakko shoulder the star. the house light scatter on every level make a it be a double firmament. some be fix others belong to the rickshaw of the careless open speak english folk go out to dinner. 
it be here say kim s guide and halt in a veranda flush with the main road. no door stay them but a curtain of bead reed that split up the lamplight beyond. 
he be come say the boy in a voice little loud than a sigh and vanish. kim felt sure that the boy have be post to guide him from the first but put a bold face on it part the curtain. a black beard man with a green shade over his eye sit at a table and one by one with short white hand pick up globule of light from a tray before him thread them on a glance silken string and hum to himself the while. kim be conscious that beyond the circle of light the room be full of thing that smelt like all the temple of all the east. a whiff of musk a puff of sandal wood and a breath of sickly jessamine oil catch his open nostril. 
i be here say kim at last speak in the vernacular. the smell make him forget that he be to be a sahib. 
seventy nine eighty eighty one the man count to himself string pearl after pearl so quickly that kim could scarcely follow his finger. he slide off the green shade and look fixedly at kim for a full half minute. the pupil of the eye dilate and close to pin prick a if at will. there be a fakir by the taksali gate who have just this gift and make money by it especially when curse silly woman. kim star with interest. his disreputable friend could further twitch his ear almost like a goat and kim be disappoint that this new man could not imitate him. 
do not be afraid say lurgan sahib suddenly. 
why should i fear. 
thou wilt sleep here tonight and stay with me till it be time to go again to nucklao. it be an order. 
it be an order kim repeat. but where shall i sleep. 
here in this room. lurgan sahib wave his hand towards the darkness behind him. 
so be it say kim composedly. now. 
he nod and hold the lamp above his head. a the light sweep them there leap out from the wall a collection of tibetan devil dance mask hang above the fiend embroider drapery of those ghastly function horn mask scowl mask and mask of idiotic terror. in a corner a japanese warrior mail and plume menace him with a halberd and a score of lance and khandas and kuttars give back the unsteady gleam. but what interest kim more than all these thing he have see devil dance mask at the lahore museum be a glimpse of the soft eye hindu child who have leave him in the doorway sit cross legged under the table of pearl with a little smile on his scarlet lip. 
i think that lurgan sahib wish to make me afraid. and i be sure that that devil s brat below the table wish to see me afraid. 
this place he say aloud be like a wonder house. where be my bed. 
lurgan sahib point to a native quilt in a corner by the loathsome mask pick up the lamp and leave the room black. 
be that lurgan sahib. kim ask a he cuddle down. no answer. he could hear the hindu boy breathe however and guide by the sound crawl across the floor and cuff into the darkness cry. give answer devil. be this the way to lie to a sahib. 
from the darkness he fancy he could hear the echo of a chuckle. it could not be his soft flesh companion because he be weep. so kim lift up his voice and call aloud. 
lurgan sahib. o lurgan sahib. be it an order that thy servant doe not speak to me. 
it be an order. the voice come from behind him and he start. 
very good. but remember he mutter a he resought the quilt i will beat thee in the morning. i do not love hindu. 
that be no cheerful night. the room be overfull of voice and music. kim be wake twice by someone call his name. the second time he set out in search and end by bruise his nose against a box that certainly speak with a human tongue but in no sort of human accent. it seem to end in a tin trumpet and to be join by wire to a small box on the floor so far at least a he could judge by touch. and the voice very hard and whir come out of the trumpet. kim rub his nose and grow furious think a usual in hindi. 
this with a beggar from the bazar might be good but i be a sahib and the son of a sahib and which be twice a much more beside a student of nucklao. yes. here he turn to english. a boy of st xavier s. damn mr lurgan s eye. it be some sort of machinery like a sew machine. oh it be a great cheek of him we be not frighten that way at lucknow no. then in hindi. but what doe he gain. he be only a trader i be in his shop. but creighton sahib be a colonel and i think creighton sahib give order that it should be do. how i will beat that hindu in the morning. what be this. 
the trumpet box be pour out a string of the most elaborate abuse that even kim have ever hear in a high uninterested voice that for a moment lift the short hair of his neck. when the vile thing draw breath kim be reassure by the soft sew machine like whirr. 
chup. [be still] he cry and again he hear a chuckle that decide him. chup or i break your head. 
the box take no heed. kim wrench at the tin trumpet and something lift with a click. he have evidently raise a lid. if there be a devil inside now be it time for he sniff thus do the sew machine of the bazar smell. he would clean that shaitan. he slip off his jacket and plunge it into the box s mouth. something long and round bend under the pressure there be a whirr and the voice stop a voice must if you ram a thrice double coat on to the wax cylinder and into the work of an expensive phonograph. kim finish his slumber with a serene mind. 
in the morning he be aware of lurgan sahib look down on him. 
oah. say kim firmly resolve to cling to his sahib dom. there be a box in the night that give me bad talk. so i stop it. be it your box. 
the man hold out his hand. 
shake hand o hara he say. yes it be my box. i keep such thing because my friend the rajah like them. that one be break but it be cheap at the price. yes my friend the king be very fond of toy and so be i sometimes. 
kim look him over out of the corner of his eye. he be a sahib in that he wear sahib s clothe. the accent of his urdu the intonation of his english show that he be anything but a sahib. he seem to understand what move in kim s mind ere the boy open his mouth and he take no pain to explain himself a do father victor or the lucknow master. sweet of all he treat kim a an equal on the asiatic side. 
i be sorry you cannot beat my boy this morning. he say he will kill you with a knife or poison. he be jealous so i have put him in the corner and i shall not speak to him today. he ha just try to kill me. you must help me with the breakfast. he be almost too jealous to trust just now. 
now a genuine import sahib from england would have make a great to do over this tale. lurgan sahib state it a simply a mahbub ali be use to record his little affair in the north. 
the back veranda of the shop be build out over the sheer hillside and they look down into their neighbour chimney pot a be the custom of simla. but even more than the purely persian meal cook by lurgan sahib with his own hand the shop fascinate kim. the lahore museum be large but here be more wonder ghost dagger and prayer wheel from tibet. turquoise and raw amber necklace. green jade bangle. curiously pack incense stick in jar crust over with raw garnet. the devil mask of overnight and a wall full of peacock blue drapery. gild figure of buddha and little portable lacquer altar. russian samovar with turquoise on the lid. egg shell china set in quaint octagonal cane box. yellow ivory crucifix from japan of all place in the world so lurgan sahib say. carpet in dusty bale smell atrociously push back behind tear and rotten screen of geometrical work. persian water jug for the hand after meal. dull copper incense burner neither chinese nor persian with frieze of fantastic devil run round them. tarnish silver belt that knot like raw hide. hairpin of jade ivory and plasma. arm of all sort and kind and a thousand other oddment be case or pile or merely throw into the room leave a clear space only round the rickety deal table where lurgan sahib work. 
those thing be nothing say his host follow kim s glance. i buy them because they be pretty and sometimes i sell if i like the buyer s look. my work be on the table some of it. 
it blaze in the morning light all red and blue and green flash pick out with the vicious blue white spurt of a diamond here and there. kim open his eye. 
oh they be quite well those stone. it will not hurt them to take the sun. besides they be cheap. but with sick stone it be very different. he pile kim s plate anew. there be no one but me can doctor a sick pearl and re blue turquoise. i grant you opal any fool can cure an opal but for a sick pearl there be only me. suppose i be to die. then there would be no one. oh no. you cannot do anything with jewel. it will be quite enough if you understand a little about the turquoise some day. 
he move to the end of the veranda to refill the heavy porous clay water jug from the filter. 
do you want drink. 
kim nod. lurgan sahib fifteen foot off lay one hand on the jar. next instant it stand at kim s elbow full to within half an inch of the brim the white cloth only show by a small wrinkle where it have slide into place. 
wah. say kim in most utter amazement. that be magic. lurgan sahib s smile show that the compliment have go home. 
throw it back. 
it will break. 
i say throw it back. 
kim pitch it at random. it fell short and crash into fifty piece while the water drip through the rough veranda board. 
i say it would break. 
all one. look at it. look at the large piece. 
that lay with a sparkle of water in it curve a it be a star on the floor. kim look intently. lurgan sahib lay one hand gently on the nape of his neck stroke it twice or thrice and whisper. look. it shall come to life again piece by piece. first the big piece shall join itself to two others on the right and the leave on the right and the leave. look. 
to save his life kim could not have turn his head. the light touch hold him a in a vice and his blood tingle pleasantly through him. there be one large piece of the jar where there have be three and above them the shadowy outline of the entire vessel. he could see the veranda through it but it be thicken and darken with each beat of his pulse. yet the jar how slowly the thought come. the jar have be smash before his eye. another wave of prickle fire race down his neck a lurgan sahib move his hand. 
look. it be come into shape say lurgan sahib. 
so far kim have be think in hindi but a tremor come on him and with an effort like that of a swimmer before shark who hurl himself half out of the water his mind leap up from a darkness that be swallow it and take refuge in the multiplication table in english. 
look. it be come into shape whisper lurgan sahib. 
the jar have be smash yes smash not the native word he would not think of that but smash into fifty piece and twice three be six and thrice three be nine and four time three be twelve. he cling desperately to the repetition. the shadow outline of the jar clear like a mist after rub eye. there be the break shard. there be the spill water dry in the sun and through the crack of the veranda show all rib the white house wall below and thrice twelve be thirty six. 
look. be it come into shape. ask lurgan sahib. 
but it be smash smash he gasp lurgan sahib have be mutter softly for the last half minute. kim wrench his head aside. look. dekho. it be there a it be there. 
it be there a it be there say lurgan watch kim closely while the boy rub his neck. but you be the first of many who ha ever see it so. he wipe his broad forehead. 
be that more magic. kim ask suspiciously. the tingle have go from his vein. he felt unusually wide awake. 
no that be not magic. it be only to see if there be a flaw in a jewel. sometimes very fine jewel will fly all to piece if a man hold them in his hand and know the proper way. that be why one must be careful before one set them. tell me do you see the shape of the pot. 
for a little time. it begin to grow like a flower from the grind. 
and then what do you do. i mean how do you think. 
oah. i know it be break and so i think that be what i think and it be break. 
hm. ha anyone ever do that same sort of magic to you before. 
if it be say kim do you think i should let it again. i should run away. 
and now you be not afraid eh. 
not now. 
lurgan sahib look at him more closely than ever. i shall ask mahbub ali not now but some day late he mutter. i be please with you yes. and i be please with you no. you be the first that ever save himself. i wish i know what it be that. but you be right. you should not tell that not even to me. 
he turn into the dusky gloom of the shop and sit down at the table rub his hand softly. a small husky sob come from behind a pile of carpet. it be the hindu child obediently face towards the wall. his thin shoulder work with grief. 
ah. he be jealous so jealous. i wonder if he will try to poison me again in my breakfast and make me cook it twice. 
kubbee kubbee nahin [never never. no. ] come the break answer. 
and whether he will kill this other boy. 
kubbee kubbee nahin. 
what do you think he will do. he turn suddenly on kim. 
oah. i do not know. let him go perhaps. why do he want to poison you. 
because he be so fond of me. suppose you be fond of someone and you saw someone come and the man you be fond of be more please with him than he be with you what would you do. 
kim think. lurgan repeat the sentence slowly in the vernacular. i should not poison that man say kim reflectively but i should beat that boy if that boy be fond of my man. but first i would ask that boy if it be true. 
ah. he think everyone must be fond of me. 
then i think he be a fool. 
hearest thou. say lurgan sahib to the shake shoulder. the sahib s son think thou art a little fool. come out and next time thy heart be trouble do not try white arsenic quite so openly. surely the devil dasim be lord of our table cloth that day. it might have make me ill child and then a strange would have guard the jewel. come. 
the child heavy eye with much weep creep out from behind the bale and fling himself passionately at lurgan sahib s foot with an extravagance of remorse that impress even kim. 
i will look into the ink pool i will faithfully guard the jewel. oh my father and my mother send him away. he indicate kim with a backward jerk of his bare heel. 
not yet not yet. in a little while he will go away again. but now he be at school at a new madrissah and thou shalt be his teacher. play the play of the jewel against him. i will keep tally. 
the child dry his tear at once and dash to the back of the shop whence he return with a copper tray. 
give me. he say to lurgan sahib. let them come from thy hand for he may say that i know them before. 
gently gently the man reply and from a drawer under the table deal a half handful of clatter trifle into the tray. 
now say the child wave an old newspaper. look on them a long a thou wilt strange. count and if need be handle. one look be enough for me. he turn his back proudly. 
but what be the game. 
when thou hast count and handle and art sure that thou canst remember them all i cover them with this paper and thou must tell over the tally to lurgan sahib. i will write mine. 
oah. the instinct of competition wake in his breast. he bend over the tray. there be but fifteen stone on it. that be easy he say after a minute. the child slip the paper over the wink jewel and scribble in a native account book. 
there be under that paper five blue stone one big one small and three small say kim all in haste. there be four green stone and one with a hole in it. there be one yellow stone that i can see through and one like a pipe stem. there be two red stone and and i make the count fifteen but two i have forget. no. give me time. one be of ivory little and brownish. and and give me time. 
one two lurgan sahib count him out up to ten. kim shake his head. 
hear my count. the child burst in trill with laughter. first be two flaw sapphire one of two ruttees and one of four a i should judge. the four ruttee sapphire be chip at the edge. there be one turkestan turquoise plain with black vein and there be two inscribe one with a name of god in gild and the other be crack across for it come out of an old ring i cannot read. we have now all five blue stone. four flaw emerald there be but one be drill in two place and one be a little carven. 
their weight. say lurgan sahib impassively. 
three five five and four ruttees a i judge it. there be one piece of old greenish pipe amber and a cut topaz from europe. there be one ruby of burma of two ruttees without a flaw and there be a balas ruby flaw of two ruttees. there be a carve ivory from china represent a rat suck an egg. and there be last ah ha. a ball of crystal a big a a bean set on a gold leaf. 
he clap his hand at the close. 
he be thy master say lurgan sahib smile. 
huh. he know the name of the stone say kim flush. try again. with common thing such a he and i both know. 
they heap the tray again with odds and end gather from the shop and even the kitchen and every time the child win till kim marvel. 
bind my eye let me feel once with my finger and even then i will leave thee open eye behind he challenge. 
kim stamp with vexation when the lad make his boast good. 
if it be men or horse he say i could do good. this play with tweezer and knife and scissor be too little. 
learn first teach late say lurgan sahib. be he thy master. 
truly. but how be it do. 
by do it many time over till it be do perfectly for it be worth do. 
the hindu boy in high feather actually pat kim on the back. 
do not despair he say. i myself will teach thee. 
and i will see that thou art well teach say lurgan sahib still speak in the vernacular for except my boy here it be foolish of him to buy so much white arsenic when if he have ask i could have give it except my boy here i have not in a long time meet with one good worth teach. and there be ten day more ere thou canst return to lucknao where they teach nothing at the long price. we shall i think be friend. 
they be a most mad ten day but kim enjoy himself too much to reflect on their craziness. in the morning they play the jewel game sometimes with veritable stone sometimes with pile of sword and dagger sometimes with photo graph of native. through the afternoon he and the hindu boy would mount guard in the shop sit dumb behind a carpet bale or a screen and watch mr lurgan s many and very curious visitor. there be small rajah escort cough in the veranda who come to buy curiosity such a phonograph and mechanical toy. there be lady in search of necklace and men it seem to kim but his mind may have be vitiate by early train in search of the lady. native from independent and feudatory court whose ostensible business be the repair of break necklace river of light pour out upon the table but whose true end seem to be to raise money for angry maharanee or young rajah. there be babu to whom lurgan sahib talk with austerity and authority but at the end of each interview he give them money in coin silver and currency note. there be occasional gathering of long coat theatrical native who discuss metaphysics in english and bengali to mr lurgan s great edification. he be always interest in religion. at the end of the day kim and the hindu boy whose name vary at lurgan s pleasure be expect to give a detail account of all that they have see and hear their view of each man s character a show in his face talk and manner and their notion of his real errand. after dinner lurgan sahib s fancy turn more to what might be call dress up in which game he take a most inform interest. he could paint face to a marvel. with a brush dab here and a line there change them past recognition. the shop be full of all manner of dress and turban and kim be apparelled variously a a young mohammedan of good family an oilman and once which be a joyous even a the son of an oudh landholder in the full of full dress. lurgan sahib have a hawk s eye to detect the least flaw in the make up. and lie on a wear teak wood couch would explain by the half hour together how such and such a caste talk or walk or cough or spat or sneeze and since hows matter little in this world the why of everything. the hindu child play this game clumsily. that little mind keen a an icicle where tally of jewel be concern could not temper itself to enter another s soul. but a demon in kim wake up and sing with joy a he put on the change dress and change speech and gesture therewith. 
carry away by enthusiasm he volunteer to show lurgan sahib one even how the disciple of a certain caste of fakir old lahore acquaintance beg dole by the roadside. and what sort of language he would use to an englishman to a punjabi farmer go to a fair and to a woman without a veil. lurgan sahib laugh immensely and beg kim to stay a he be immobile for half an hour cross legged ash smear and wild eye in the back room. at the end of that time enter a hulk obese babu whose stock leg shake with fat and kim open on him with a shower of wayside chaff. lurgan sahib this annoy kim watch the babu and not the play. 
i think say the babu heavily light a cigarette i be of opeenion that it be most extraordinary and effeecient performance. except that you have tell me i should have opine that that that you be pull my leg. how soon can he become approximately effeecient chain man. because then i shall indent for him. 
that be what he must learn at lucknow. 
then order him to be jolly dam quick. good night lurgan. the babu swing out with the gait of a bogged cow. 
when they be tell over the day s list of visitor lurgan sahib ask kim who he think the man might be. 
god know. say kim cheerily. the tone might almost have deceive mahbub ali but it fail entirely with the healer of sick pearl. 
that be true. god he know. but i wish to know what you think. 
kim glance sideways at his companion whose eye have a way of compel truth. 
i i think he will want me when i come from the school but confidentially a lurgan sahib nod approval i do not understand how he can wear many dress and talk many tongue. 
thou wilt understand many thing late. he be a writer of tale for a certain colonel. his honour be great only in simla and it be noticeable that he ha no name but only a number and a letter that be a custom among u. 
and be there a price upon his head too a upon mah all the others. 
not yet. but if a boy rise up who be now sit here and go look the door be open. a far a a certain house with a red paint veranda behind that which be the old theatre in the low bazar and whisper through the shutter. hurree chunder mookerjee bore the bad news of last month that boy might take away a belt full of rupee. 
how many. say kim promptly. 
five hundred a thousand a many a he might ask for. 
good. and for how long might such a boy live after the news be tell. he smile merrily at lurgan s sahib s very beard. 
ah. that be to be well think of. perhaps if he be very clever he might live out the day but not the night. by no mean the night. 
then what be the babu s pay if so much be put upon his head. 
eighty perhaps a hundred perhaps a hundred and fifty rupee. but the pay be the least part of the work. from time to time god cause men to be bear and thou art one of them who have a lust to go abroad at the risk of their life and discover news today it may be of far off thing tomorrow of some hide mountain and the next day of some near by men who have do a foolishness against the state. these soul be very few. and of these few not more than ten be of the best. among these ten i count the babu and that be curious. how great therefore and desirable must be a business that brazen the heart of a bengali. 
true. but the day go slowly for me. i be yet a boy and it be only within two month i learn to write angrezi. even now i cannot read it well. and there be yet year and year and long year before i can be even a chain man. 
have patience friend of all the world kim start at the title. would i have a few of the year that so irk thee. i have prove thee in several small way. this will not be forget when i make my report to the colonel sahib. then change suddenly into english with a deep laugh. 
by jove. o hara i think there be a great deal in you. but you must not become proud and you must not talk. you must go back to lucknow and be a good little boy and mind your book a the english say and perhaps next holiday if you care you can come back to me. kim s face fell. oh i mean if you like. i know where you want to go. 
four day late a seat be book for kim and his small trunk at the rear of a kalka tonga. his companion be the whale like babu who with a fringe shawl wrap round his head and his fat openwork stock leave leg tuck under him shiver and grunt in the morning chill. 
how come it that this man be one of u. think kim consider the jelly back a they jolt down the road. and the reflection throw him into most pleasant day dream. lurgan sahib have give him five rupee a splendid sum a well a the assurance of his protection if he work. unlike mahbub lurgan sahib have speak most explicitly of the reward that would follow obedience and kim be content. if only like the babu he could enjoy the dignity of a letter and a number and a price upon his head. some day he would be all that and more. some day he might be almost a great a mahbub ali. the housetop of his search should be half india. he would follow king and minister a in the old day he have follow vakils and lawyer tout across lahore city for mahbub ali s sake. meantime there be the present and not at all unpleasant fact of st xavier s immediately before him. there would be new boy to condescend to and there would be tale of holiday adventure to hear. young martin son of the tea planter at manipur have boast that he would go to war with a rifle against the head hunter. 
that might be but it be certain young martin have not be blow half across the forecourt of a patiala palace by an explosion of firework. nor have he. kim fell to tell himself the story of his own adventure through the last three month. he could paralyse st xavier s even the big boy who shave with the recital be that permit. but it be of course out of the question. there would be a price upon his head in good time a lurgan sahib have assure him. and if he talk foolishly now not only would that price never be set but colonel creighton would cast him off and he would be leave to the wrath of lurgan sahib and mahbub ali for the short space of life that would remain to him. 
so i should lose delhi for the sake of a fish be his proverbial philosophy. it behove him to forget his holiday. there would always remain the fun of invent imaginary adventure. and a lurgan sahib have say to work. of all the boy hurry back to st xavier s from sukkur in the sand to galle beneath the palm none be so fill with virtue a kimball o hara jiggeting down to umballa behind hurree chunder mookerjee whose name on the book of one section of the ethnological survey be r. 
and if additional spur be need the babu supply it. after a huge meal at kalka he speak uninterruptedly. be kim go to school. then he an m a of calcutta university would explain the advantage of education. there be mark to be gain by due attention to latin and wordsworth s excursion. all this be greek to kim. french too be vital and the best be to be pick up in chandernagore a few mile from calcutta. also a man might go far a he himself have do by strict attention to play call lear and julius caesar both much in demand by examiner. lear be not so full of historical allusion a julius caesar. the book cost four anna but could be buy second hand in bow bazar for two. still more important than wordsworth or the eminent author burke and hare be the art and science of mensuration. a boy who have pass his examination in these branch for which by the way there be no cram book could by merely march over a country with a compass and a level and a straight eye carry away a picture of that country which might be sell for large sum in coin silver. but a it be occasionally inexpedient to carry about measure chain a boy would do well to know the precise length of his own foot pace so that when he be deprive of what hurree chunder call adventitious aid he might still tread his distance. to keep count of thousand of pace hurree chunder s experience have show him nothing more valuable than a rosary of eighty one or a hundred and eight bead for it be divisible and sub divisible into many multiple and sub multiple. through the volley drift of english kim catch the general trend of the talk and it interest him very much. here be a new craft that a man could tuck away in his head and by the look of the large wide world unfold itself before him it seem that the more a man know the good for him. 
say the babu when he have talk for an hour and a half i hope some day to enjoy your offeecial acquaintance. ad interim if i may be pardon that expression i shall give you this betel box which be highly valuable article and cost me two rupee only four year ago. it be a cheap heart shape brass thing with three compartment for carry the eternal betel nut lime and pan leaf. but it be fill with little tabloid bottle. 
that be reward of merit for your performance in character of that holy man. you see you be so young you think you will last for ever and not take care of your body. it be great nuisance to go sick in the middle of business. i be fond of drug myself and they be handy to cure poor people too. these be good departmental drug quinine and so on. i give it you for souvenir. now good bye. i have urgent private business here by the roadside. 
he slip out noiselessly a a cat on the umballa road hail a pass cart and jingle away while kim tongue tie twiddle the brass betel box in his hand. 
the record of a boy s education interest few save his parent and a you know kim be an orphan. it be write in the book of st xavier s in partibus that a report of kim s progress be forward at the end of each term to colonel creighton and to father victor from whose hand duly come the money for his school. it be further record in the same book that he show a great aptitude for mathematical study a well a map make and carry away a prize. the life of lord lawrence tree calf two vols. nine rupee eight anna. for proficiency therein. and the same term play in st xavier s eleven against the alighur mohammedan college his age be fourteen year and ten month. he be also re vaccinate. from which we may assume that there have be another epidemic of smallpox at lucknow. about the same time. pencil note on the edge of an old muster roll record that he be punish several time for converse with improper person and it seem that he be once sentence to heavy pain for absent himself for a day in the company of a street beggar. that be when he get over the gate and plead with the lama through a whole day down the bank of the gumti to accompany him on the road next holiday for one month for a little week. and the lama set his face a a flint against it aver that the time have not yet come. kim s business say the old man a they eat cake together be to get all the wisdom of the sahib and then he would see. the hand of friendship must in some way have avert the whip of calamity for six week late kim seem to have pass an examination in elementary survey with great credit his age be fifteen year and eight month. from this date the record be silent. his name doe not appear in the year s batch of those who enter for the subordinate survey of india but against it stand the word remove on appointment. 
several time in those three year cast up at the temple of the tirthankars in benares the lama a little thin and a shade yellow if that be possible but gentle and untainted a ever. sometimes it be from the south that he come from south of tuticorin whence the wonderful fire boat go to ceylon where be priest who know pali. sometimes it be from the wet green west and the thousand cotton factory chimney that ring bombay. and once from the north where he have double back eight hundred mile to talk for a day with the keeper of the image in the wonder house. he would stride to his cell in the cool cut marble the priest of the temple be good to the old man wash off the dust of travel make prayer and depart for lucknow well accustom now to the way of the rail in a third class carriage. return it be noticeable a his friend the seeker point out to the head priest that he cease for a while to mourn the loss of his river or to draw wondrous picture of the wheel of life but prefer to talk of the beauty and wisdom of a certain mysterious chela whom no man of the temple have ever see. yes he have follow the trace of the bless foot throughout all india. the curator ha still in his possession a most marvellous account of his wandering and meditation. there remain nothing more in life but to find the river of the arrow. yet it be show to him in dream that it be a matter not to be undertake with any hope of success unless that seeker have with him the one chela appoint to bring the event to a happy issue and verse in great wisdom such wisdom a white haired keeper of image posse. for example. here come out the snuff gourd and the kindly jain priest make haste to be silent. 
long and long ago when devadatta be king of benares let all listen to the tataka. an elephant be capture for a time by the king s hunter and ere he break free beringed with a grievous legiron. this he strive to remove with hate and frenzy in his heart and hurry up and down the forest beseech his brother elephant to wrench it asunder. one by one with their strong trunk they try and fail. at the last they give it a their opinion that the ring be not to be break by any bestial power. and in a thicket new bear wet with moisture of birth lay a day old calf of the herd whose mother have die. the fetter elephant forget his own agony say. if i do not help this suckle it will perish under our foot. so he stand above the young thing make his leg buttress against the uneasily move herd. and he beg milk of a virtuous cow and the calf thrive and the ring elephant be the calf s guide and defence. now the day of an elephant let all listen to the tataka. be thirty five year to his full strength and through thirty five rain the ring elephant befriend the young and all the while the fetter eat into the flesh. 
then one day the young elephant saw the half bury iron and turn to the elder say. what be this. it be even my sorrow say he who have befriend him. then that other put out his trunk and in the twinkle of an eyelash abolish the ring say. the appoint time ha come. so the virtuous elephant who have wait temperately and do kind act be relieve at the appoint time by the very calf whom he have turn aside to cherish let all listen to the tataka. for the elephant be ananda and the calf that break the ring be none other than the lord himself. 
then he would shake his head benignly and over the ever click rosary point out how free that elephant calf be from the sin of pride. he be a humble a a chela who see his master sit in the dust outside the gate of learn over leap the gate. though they be lock. and take his master to his heart in the presence of the proud stomach city. rich would be the reward of such a master and such a chela when the time come for them to seek freedom together. 
so do the lama speak come and go across india a softly a a bat. a sharp tongue old woman in a house among the fruit tree behind saharunpore honour him a the woman honour the prophet but his chamber be by no mean upon the wall. in an apartment of the forecourt overlook by coo dove he would sit while she lay aside her useless veil and chatter of spirit and fiend of kulu of grandchild unborn and of the free tongue brat who have talk to her in the rest place. once too he stray alone from the grand trunk road below umballa to the very village whose priest have try to drug him. but the kind heaven that guard lama send him at twilight through the crop absorb and unsuspicious to the rissaldar s door. here be like to have be a grave misunderstand for the old soldier ask him why the friend of the star have go that way only six day before. 
that may not be say the lama. he ha go back to his own people. 
he sit in that corner tell a hundred merry tale five night ago his host insist. true he vanish somewhat suddenly in the dawn after foolish talk with my granddaughter. he grow apace but he be the same friend of the star a bring me true word of the war. have ye part. 
yes and no the lama reply. we we have not altogether part but the time be not ripe that we should take the road together. he acquire wisdom in another place. we must wait. 
all one but if it be not the boy how do he come to speak so continually of thee. 
and what say he. ask the lama eagerly. 
sweet word an hundred thousand that thou art his father and mother and such all. pity that he doe not take the qpeen s service. he be fearless. 
this news amaze the lama who do not then know how religiously kim keep to the contract make with mahbub ali and perforce ratify by colonel creighton. 
there be no hold the young pony from the game say the horse dealer when the colonel point out that vagabond over india in holiday time be absurd. if permission be refuse to go and come a he choose he will make light of the refusal. then who be to catch him. colonel sahib only once in a thousand year be a horse bear so well fit for the game a this our colt. and we need men. 
chapter. 
your tiercel s too long at hack sire. he s no eyas but a passage hawk that foot ere we catch him dangerously free o the air. faith. be he mine. a mine s the glove he bind to for his tire. i d fly him with a make hawk. he s in yarak plume to the very point so man so weather. give him the firmament god make him for and what shall take the air of him. 
gow s watch. 
lurgan sahib do not use a direct speech but his advice tally with mahbub s. and the upshot be good for kim. he know good now than to leave lucknow city in native garb and if mahbub be anywhere within reach of a letter it be to mahbub s camp he head and make his change under the pathan s wary eye. could the little survey paint box that he use for map tint in term time have find a tongue to tell of holiday do he might have be expel. once mahbub and he go together a far a the beautiful city of bombay with three truckloads of tram horse and mahbub nearly melt when kim propose a sail in a dhow across the indian ocean to buy gulf arab which he understand from a hanger on of the dealer abdul rahman fetch good price than mere kabulis. 
he dip his hand into the dish with that great trader when mahbub and a few co religionist be invite to a big haj dinner. they come back by way of karachi by sea when kim take his first experience of sea sickness sit on the fore hatch of a coast steamer well persuade he have be poison. the babu s famous drug box prove useless though kim have restock it at bombay. mahbub have business at quetta and there kim a mahbub admit earn his keep and perhaps a little over by spend four curious day a scullion in the house of a fat commissariat sergeant from whose office box in an auspicious moment he remove a little vellum ledger which he copy out it seem to deal entirely with cattle and camel sale by moonlight lie behind an outhouse all through one hot night. then he return the ledger to it place and at mahbub s word leave that service unpaid rejoin him six mile down the road the clean copy in his bosom. 
that soldier be a small fish mahbub ali explain but in time we shall catch the large one. he only sell ox at two price one for himself and one for the government which i do not think be a sin. 
why could not i take away the little book and be do with it. 
then he would have be frighten and he would have tell his master. then we should miss perhaps a great number of new rifle which seek their way up from quetta to the north. the game be so large that one see but a little at a time. 
oho. say kim and hold his tongue. that be in the monsoon holiday after he have take the prize for mathematics. the christmas holiday he spend deduct ten day for private amusement with lurgan sahib where he sit for the most part in front of a roar wood fire jakko road be four foot deep in snow that year and the small hindu have go away to be marry help lurgan to thread pearl. he make kim learn whole chapter of the koran by heart till he could deliver them with the very roll and cadence of a mullah. moreover he tell kim the name and property of many native drug a well a the rune proper to recite when you administer them. and in the evening he write charm on parchment elaborate pentagram crown with the name of devil murra and awan the companion of king all fantastically write in the corner. more to the point he advise kim a to the care of his own body the cure of fever fit and simple remedy of the road. a week before it be time to go down colonel creighton sahib this be unfair send kim a write examination paper that concern itself solely with rod and chain and link and angle. 
next holiday he be out with mahbub and here by the way he nearly die of thirst plod through the sand on a camel to the mysterious city of bikanir where the well be four hundred foot deep and line throughout with camel bone. it be not an amuse trip from kim s point of view because in defiance of the contract the colonel order him to make a map of that wild wall city. and since mohammedan horse boy and pipe tender be not expect to drag survey chain round the capital of an independent native state kim be force to pace all his distance by mean of a bead rosary. he use the compass for bearing a occasion serve after dark chiefly when the camel have be feed and by the help of his little survey paint box of six colour cake and three brush he achieve something not remotely unlike the city of jeysulmir. mahbub laugh a great deal and advise him to make up a write report a well. and in the back of the big account book that lay under the flap of mahbub s pet saddle kim fell to work. 
it must hold everything that thou hast see or touch or consider. write a though the jung i lat sahib himself have come by stealth with a vast army outsetting to war. 
how great an army. 
oh half a lakh of men. 
folly. remember how few and bad be the well in the sand. not a thousand thirsty men could come near by here. 
then write that down also all the old breach in the wall and whence the firewood be cut and what be the temper and disposition of the king. i stay here till all my horse be sell. i will hire a room by the gateway and thou shalt be my accountant. there be a good lock to the door. 
the report in it unmistakable st xavier s run script and the brown yellow and lake daub map be on hand a few year ago. a careless clerk file it with the rough note of e s second seistan survey. but by now the pencil character must be almost illegible. kim translate it sweat under the light of an oil lamp to mahbub the second day of their return journey. 
the pathan rise and stoop over his dapple saddle bag. 
i know it would be worthy a dress of honour and so i make one ready he say smile. be i amir of afghanistan. and some day we may see him. i would fill thy mouth with gold. he lay the garment formally at kim s foot. there be a gold embroider peshawur turban cap rise to a cone and a big turban cloth end in a broad fringe of gold. there be a delhi embroider waistcoat to slip over a milky white shirt fasten to the right ample and flow. green pyjama with twist silk waist string. and that nothing might be lack russia leather slipper smell divinely with arrogantly curl tip. 
upon a wednesday and in the morning to put on new clothe be auspicious say mahbub solemnly. but we must not forget the wicked folk in the world. so. 
he cap all the splendour that be take kim s delight breath away with a mother of pearl nickel plat self extract. revolver. 
i have think of a small bore but reflect that this take government bullet. a man can always come by those especially across the border. stand up and let me look. he clap kim on the shoulder. may you never be tire pathan. oh the heart to be break. oh the eye under the eyelash look sideways. 
kim turn about point his toe stretch and felt mechanically for the moustache that be just begin. then he stoop towards mahbub s foot to make proper acknowledgment with flutter quick pat hand. his heart too full for word. mahbub forestall and embrace him. 
my son say he what need of word between u. but be not the little gun a delight. all six cartridge come out at one twist. it be bear in the bosom next the skin which a it be keep it oil. never put it elsewhere and please god thou shalt some day kill a man with it. 
hai mai. say kim ruefully. if a sahib kill a man he be hang in the jail. 
true. but one pace beyond the border men be wise. put it away. but fill it first. of what use be a gun unfed. 
when i go back to the madrissah i must return it. they do not allow little gun. thou wilt keep it for me. 
son i be weary of that madrissah where they take the best year of a man to teach him what he can only learn upon the road. the folly of the sahib ha neither top nor bottom. no matter. maybe thy write report shall save thee further bondage. and god he know we need men more and more in the game. 
they march jaw bind against blow sand across the salt desert to jodhpur where mahbub and his handsome nephew habib ullah do much trade. and then sorrowfully in european clothe which he be fast outgrow kim go second class to st xavier s. three week late colonel creighton price tibetan ghost dagger at lurgan s shop face mahbub ali openly mutinous. lurgan sahib operate a support in reserve. 
the pony be make finish mouth and pace sahib. from now on day by day he will lose his manner if he be keep at trick. drop the rein on his back and let go say the horse dealer. we need him. 
but he be so young mahbub not more than sixteen be he. 
when i be fifteen i have shoot my man and beget my man sahib. 
you impenitent old heathen. creighton turn to lurgan. the black beard nod assent to the wisdom of the afghan s dye scarlet. 
i should have use him long ago say lurgan. the young the good. that be why i always have my really valuable jewel watch by a child. you send him to me to try. i try him in every way. he be the only boy i could not make to see thing. 
in the crystal in the ink pool. demand mahbub. 
no. under my hand a i tell you. that ha never happen before. it mean that he be strong enough but you think it skittle colonel creighton to make anyone do anything he want. and that be three year ago. i have teach him a good deal since colonel creighton. i think you waste him now. 
hmm. maybe you re right. but a you know there be no survey work for him at present. 
let him out let him go mahbub interrupt. who expect any colt to carry heavy weight at first. let him run with the caravan like our white camel colt for luck. i would take him myself but. 
there be a little business where he would be most useful in the south say lurgan with peculiar suavity drop his heavy blue eyelid. 
e. ha that in hand say creighton quickly. he must not go down there. besides he know no turki. 
only tell him the shape and the smell of the letter we want and he will bring them back lurgan insist. 
no. that be a man s job say creighton. 
it be a wry neck matter of unauthorized and incendiary correspondence between a person who claim to be the ultimate authority in all matter of the mohammedan religion throughout the world and a young member of a royal house who have be bring to book for kidnap woman within british territory. the moslem archbishop have be emphatic and over arrogant. the young prince be merely sulky at the curtailment of his privilege but there be no need he should continue a correspondence which might some day compromise him. one letter indeed have be procure but the finder be late find dead by the roadside in the habit of an arab trader a e. take up the work duly report. 
these fact and a few others not to be publish make both mahbub and creighton shake their head. 
let him go out with his red lama say the horse dealer with visible effort. he be fond of the old man. he can learn his pace by the rosary at least. 
i have have some dealing with the old man by letter say colonel creighton smile to himself. whither go he. 
up and down the land a he ha these three year. he seek a river of heal. god s curse upon all mahbub check himself. he bed down at the temple of the tirthankars or at buddh gaya when he be in from the road. then he go to see the boy at the madrissah a we know for the boy be punish for it twice or thrice. he be quite mad but a peaceful man. i have meet him. the babu also ha have dealing with him. we have watch him for three year. red lama be not so common in hind that one lose track. 
babu be very curious say lurgan meditatively. do you know what hurree babu really want. he want to be make a member of the royal society by take ethnological note. i tell you i tell him about the lama everything which mahbub and the boy have tell me. hurree babu go down to benares at his own expense i think. 
i don t say creighton briefly. he have pay hurree s travel expense out of a most lively curiosity to learn what the lama might be. 
and he apply to the lama for information on lamaism and devil dance and spell and charm several time in these few year. holy virgin. i could have tell him all that yeears ago. i think hurree babu be get too old for the road. he like good to collect manner and custom information. yes he want to be an fr. 
hurree think well of the boy doesn t he. 
oh very indeed we have have some pleasant evening at my little place but i think it would be waste to throw him away with hurree on the ethnological side. 
not for a first experience. how doe that strike you mahbub. let the boy run with the lama for six month. after that we can see. he will get experience. 
he ha it already sahib a a fish control the water he swim in. but for every reason it will be well to loose him from the school. 
very good then say creighton half to himself. he can go with the lama and if hurree babu care to keep an eye on them so much the good. he win t lead the boy into any danger a mahbub would. curious his wish to be an f r s. very human too. he be best on the ethnological side hurree. 
no money and no preferment would have draw creighton from his work on the indian survey but deep in his heart also lay the ambition to write f r s after his name. honour of a sort he know could be obtain by ingenuity and the help of friend but to the best of his belief nothing save work paper represent a life of it take a man into the society which he have bombard for year with monograph on strange asiatic cult and unknown custom. nine men out of ten would flee from a royal society soiree in extremity of boredom. but creighton be the tenth and at time his soul yearn for the crowd room in easy london where silver haired bald head gentleman who know nothing of the army move among spectroscopic experiment the less plant of the freeze tundra electric flight measure machine and apparatus for slice into fractional millimetre the leave eye of the female mosquito. by all right and reason it be the royal geographical that should have appeal to him but men be a chancy a child in their choice of plaything. so creighton smile and think the good of hurree babu move by like desire. 
he drop the ghost dagger and look up at mahbub. 
how soon can we get the colt from the stable. say the horse dealer read his eye. 
hmm. if i withdraw him by order now what will he do think you. i have never before assist at the teach of such an one. 
he will come to me say mahbub promptly. lurgan sahib and i will prepare him for the road. 
so be it then. for six month he shall run at his choice. but who will be his sponsor. 
lurgan slightly incline his head. he will not tell anything if that be what you be afraid of colonel creighton. 
it s only a boy after all. 
ye e. but first he ha nothing to tell. and secondly he know what would happen. also he be very fond of mahbub and of me a little. 
will he draw pay. demand the practical horse dealer. 
food and water allowance only. twenty rupee a month. 
one advantage of the secret service be that it ha no worry audit. that service be ludicrously starve of course but the fund be administer by a few men who do not call for voucher or present itemize account. mahbub s eye light with almost a sikh s love of money. even lurgan s impassive face change. he consider the year to come when kim would have be enter and make to the great game that never cease day and night throughout india. he foresee honour and credit in the mouth of a choose few come to him from his pupil. lurgan sahib have make e. what e. be out of a bewilder impertinent lie little north west province man. 
but the joy of these master be pale and smoky beside the joy of kim when st xavier s head call him aside with word that colonel creighton have send for him. 
i understand o hara that he ha find you a place a an assistant chain man in the canal department. that come of take up mathematics. it be great luck for you for you be only sixteen. but of course you understand that you do not become pukka [permanent] till you have pass the autumn examination. so you must not think you be go out into the world to enjoy yourself or that your fortune be make. there be a great deal of hard work before you. only if you succeed in become pukka you can rise you know to four hundred and fifty a month. whereat the principal give him much good advice a to his conduct and his manner and his moral. and others his elder who have not be waft into billet talk a only anglo indian lad can of favouritism and corruption. indeed young cazalet whose father be a pensioner at chunar hint very broadly that colonel creighton s interest in kim be directly paternal. and kim instead of retaliate do not even use language. he be think of the immense fun to come of mahbub s letter of the day before all neatly write in english make appointment for that afternoon in a house the very name of which would have crisp the principal s hair with horror. 
say kim to mahbub in lucknow railway station that even above the luggage scale. i fear l at the last the roof would fall upon me and cheat me. it be indeed all finish o my father. 
mahbub snap his finger to show the utterness of that end and his eye blaze like red coal. 
then where be the pistol that i may wear it. 
softly. a half year to run without heel rope. i beg that much from colonel creighton sahib. at twenty rupee a month. old red hat know that thou art come. 
i will pay thee dustoorie [commission] on my pay for three month say kim gravely. yea two rupee a month. but first we must get rid of these. he pluck his thin linen trouser and drag at his collar. i have bring with me all that i need on the road. my trunk ha go up to lurgan sahib s. 
who send his salaam to thee sahib. 
lurgan sahib be a very clever man. but what dost thou do. 
i go north again upon the great game. what else. be thy mind still set on follow old red hat. 
do not forget he make me that i be though he do not know it. year by year he send the money that teach me. 
i would have do a much have it strike my thick head mahbub growl. come away. the lamp be light now and none will mark thee in the bazar. we go to huneefa s house. 
on the way thither mahbub give him much the same sort of advice a his mother give to lemuel and curiously enough mahbub be exact to point out how huneefa and her like destroy king. 
and i remember he quote maliciously one who say trust a snake before an harlot and an harlot before a pathan mahbub ali. now except a to pathan of whom i be one all that be true. most true be it in the great game for it be by mean of woman that all plan come to ruin and we lie out in the dawn with our throat cut. so it happen to such a one. he give the red particular. 
then why. kim pause before a filthy staircase that climb to the warm darkness of an upper chamber in the ward that be behind azim ullah s tobacco shop. those who know it call it the birdcage it be so full of whispering and whistling and chirrup. 
the room with it dirty cushion and half smoke hookah smelt abominably of stale tobacco. in one corner lay a huge and shapeless woman clothe in greenish gauze and deck brow nose ear neck wrist arm waist and ankle with heavy native jewellery. when she turn it be like the clash of copper pot. a lean cat in the balcony outside the window mew hungrily. kim check bewilder at the door curtain. 
be that the new stuff mahbub. say huneefa lazily scarce trouble to remove the mouthpiece from her lip. o buktanoos. like most of her kind she swear by the djinn o buktanoos. he be very good to look upon. 
that be part of the sell of the horse mahbub explain to kim who laugh. 
i have hear that talk since my sixth day he reply squat by the light. whither doe it lead. 
to protection. tonight we change thy colour. this sleep under roof ha blanch thee like an almond. but huneefa ha the secret of a colour that catch. no paint of a day or two. also we fortify thee against the chance of the road. that be my gift to thee my son. take out all metal on thee and lay them here. make ready huneefa. 
kim drag forth his compass survey paint box and the new fill medicine box. they have all accompany his travel and boylike he value them immensely. 
the woman rise slowly and move with her hand a little spread before her. then kim saw that she be blind. no no she mutter the pathan speak truth my colour doe not go in a week or a month and those whom i protect be under strong guard. 
when one be far off and alone it would not be well to grow blotch and leprous of a sudden say mahbub. when thou wast with me i could oversee the matter. besides a pathan be a fair skin. strip to the waist now and look how thou art whiten. huneefa felt her way back from an inner room. it be no matter she cannot see. he take a pewter bowl from her ring hand. 
the dye stuff show blue and gummy. kim experiment on the back of his wrist with a dab of cotton wool. but huneefa hear him. 
no no she cry the thing be not do thus but with the proper ceremony. the colour be the least part. i give thee the full protection of the road. 
tadoo. [magic] say kim with a half start. he do not like the white sightless eye. mahbub s hand on his neck bow him to the floor nose within an inch of the board. 
be still. no harm come to thee my son. i be thy sacrifice. 
he could not see what the woman be about but hear the dish clash of her jewellery for many minute. a match light up the darkness. he catch the well know purr and fizzle of grain of incense. then the room fill with smoke heavy aromatic and stupefy. through grow drowse he hear the name of devil of zulbazan son of eblis who life in bazar and paraos make all the sudden lewd wickedness of wayside halt. of dulhan invisible about mosque the dweller among the slipper of the faithful who hinder folk from their prayer. and musboot lord of lie and panic. huneefa now whisper in his ear now talk a from an immense distance touch him with horrible soft finger but mahbub s grip never shift from his neck till relax with a sigh the boy lose his sens. 
allah. how he fight. we should never have do it but for the drug. that be his white blood i take it say mahbub testily. go on with the dawut [invocation]. give him full protection. 
o hearer. thou that hearest with ear be present. listen o hearer. huneefa moan her dead eye turn to the west. the dark room fill with moan and snorting. 
from the out balcony a ponderous figure raise a round bullet head and cough nervously. 
do not interrupt this ventriloquial necromanciss my friend it say in english. i opine that it be very disturb to you but no enlighten observer be jolly well upset. 
i will lay a plot for their ruin. o prophet bear with the unbeliever. let them alone awhile. huneefa s face turn to the northward work horribly and it be a though voice from the ceiling answer her. 
hurree babu return to his note book balance on the window sill but his hand shake. huneefa in some sort of drug ecstasy wrench herself to and fro a she sit cross legged by kim s still head and call upon devil after devil in the ancient order of the ritual bind them to avoid the boy s every action. 
with him be the key of the secret thing. none knoweth them besides himself he knoweth that which be in the dry land and in the sea. again break out the unearthly whistle response. 
i i apprehend it be not at all malignant in it operation. say the babu watch the throat muscle quiver and jerk a huneefa speak with tongue. it it be not likely that she ha kill the boy. if so i decline to be witness at the trial. what be the last hypothetical devil mention. 
babuji say mahbub in the vernacular. i have no regard for the devil of hind but the son of eblis be far otherwise and whether they be jumalee [well affected] or jullalee [terrible] they love not kafir. 
then you think i have good go. say hurree babu half rise. they be of course dematerialize phenomenon. spencer say. 
huneefa s crisis pass a these thing must in a paroxysm of howl with a touch of froth at the lip. she lay spend and motionless beside kim and the crazy voice cease. 
wah. that work be do. may the boy be good for it. and huneefa be surely a mistress of dawut. help haul her aside babu. do not be afraid. 
how be i to fear the absolutely non existent. say hurree babu talk english to reassure himself. it be an awful thing still to dread the magic that you contemptuously investigate to collect folk lore for the royal society with a lively belief in all power of darkness. 
mahbub chuckle. he have be out with hurree on the road ere now. let u finish the colour say he. the boy be well protect if if the lord of the air have ear to hear. i be a sufi [free thinker] but when one can get blind side of a woman a stallion or a devil why go round to invite a kick. set him upon the way babu and see that old red hat doe not lead him beyond our reach. i must get back to my horse. 
all raight say hurree babu. he be at present curious spectacle. 
about third cockcrow kim wake after a sleep of thousand of year. huneefa in her corner snore heavily but mahbub be go. 
i hope you be not frighten say an oily voice at his elbow. i superintend entire operation which be most interest from ethnological point of view. it be high class dawut. 
huh. say kim recognize hurree babu who smile ingratiatingly. 
and also i have honour to bring down from lurgan your present costume. i be not in the habit offeecially of carry such gaud to subordinate but he giggle your case be note a exceptional on the book. i hope mr lurgan will note my action. 
kim yawn and stretch himself. it be good to turn and twist within loose clothe once again. 
what be this. he look curiously at the heavy duffle stuff load with the scent of the far north. 
oho. that be inconspicuous dress of chela attach to service of lamaistic lama. complete in every particular say hurree babu roll into the balcony to clean his teeth at a goglet. i be of opeenion it be not your old gentleman s precise releegion but rather sub variant of same. i have contribute reject note to whom it may concern. asiatic quarterly review on these subject. now it be curious that the old gentleman himself be totally devoid of releegiosity. he be not a dam particular. 
do you know him. 
hurree babu hold up his hand to show he be engage in the prescribe rite that accompany tooth clean and such thing among decently breed bengali. then he recite in english an arya somaj prayer of a theistical nature and stuff his mouth with pan and betel. 
oah yes. i have meet him several time at benares and also at buddh gaya to interrogate him on releegious point and devil worship. he be pure agnostic same a me. 
huneefa stir in her sleep and hurree babu jump nervously to the copper incense burner all black and discolour in morning light rub a finger in the accumulate lamp black and draw it diagonally across his face. 
who ha die in thy house. ask kim in the vernacular. 
none. but she may have the evil eye that sorceress the babu reply. 
what dost thou do now then. 
i will set thee on thy way to benares if thou go thither and tell thee what must be know by u. 
i go. at what hour run the te rain. he rise to his foot look round the desolate chamber and at the yellow wax face of huneefa a the low sun steal across the floor. be there money to be pay that witch. 
no. she ha charm thee against all devil and all danger in the name of her devil. it be mahbub s desire. in english. he be highly obsolete i think to indulge in such supersteetion. why it be all ventriloquy. belly speak eh. 
kim snap his finger mechanically to avert whatever evil mahbub he know meditate none might have creep in through huneefa s ministration. and hurree giggle once more. but a he cross the room he be careful not to step in huneefa s blotch squat shadow on the board. witch when their time be on them can lay hold of the heel of a man s soul if he doe that. 
now you must well listen say the babu when they be in the fresh air. part of these ceremony which we witness they include supply of effeecient amulet to those of our department. if you feel in your neck you will find one small silver amulet verree cheap. that be ours. do you understand. 
oah yes hawa dilli [a heart lifter] say kim feel at his neck. 
huneefa she make them for two rupee twelve anna with oh all sort of exorcism. they be quite common except they be partially black enamel and there be a paper inside each one full of name of local saint and such thing. thatt be huneefa s look out you see. huneefa make them onlee for u but in case she doe not when we get them we put in before issue one small piece of turquoise. mr lurgan he give them. there be no other source of supply. but it be me invent all this. it be strictly unoffeecial of course but convenient for subordinate. colonel creighton he doe not know. he be european. the turquoise be wrap in the paper. yes that be road to railway station. now suppose you go with the lama or with me i hope some day or with mahbub. suppose we get into a dam tight place. i be a fearful man most fearful but i tell you i have be in dam tight place more than hair on my head. you say. i be son of the charm. verree good. 
i do not understand quite. we must not be hear talk english here. 
that be all raight. i be only babu show off my english to you. all we babu talk english to show off. say hurree fling his shoulder cloth jauntily. a i be about to say son of the charm mean that you may be member of the sit bhai the seven brother which be hindi and tantric. it be popularly suppose to be extinct society but i have write note to show it be still extant. you see it be all my invention. verree good. sit bhai ha many member and perhaps before they jolly well cut your throat they may give you just a chance of life. that be useful anyhow. and moreover these foolish native if they be not too excite they always stop to think before they kill a man who say he belong to any speecific organization. you see. you say then when you be in tight place i be son of the charm and you get perhaps ah your second wind. that be only in extreme instance or to open negotiation with a strange. can you quite see. verree good. but suppose now i or any one of the department come to you dress quite different. you would not know me at all unless i choose i bet you. some day i will prove it. i come a ladakhi trader oh anything and i say to you. you want to buy precious stone. you say. do i look like a man who buy precious stone. then i say. even verree poor man can buy a turquoise or tarkeean. 
that be kichree vegetable curry say kim. 
of course it be. you say. let me see the tarkeean. then i say. it be cook by a woman and perhaps it be bad for your caste. then you say. there be no caste when men go to look for tarkeean. you stop a little between those word to look. that be thee whole secret. the little stop before the word. 
kim repeat the test sentence. 
that be all right. then i will show you my turquoise if there be time and then you know who i be and then we exchange view and document and those all thing. and so it be with any other man of u. we talk sometimes about turquoise and sometimes about tarkeean but always with that little stop in the word. it be verree easy. first son of the charm if you be in a tight place. perhaps that may help you perhaps not. then what i have tell you about the tarkeean if you want to transact offeecial business with a strange man. of course at present you have no offeecial business. you be ah ha. supernumerary on probation. quite unique specimen. if you be asiatic of birth you might be employ right off. but this half year of leave be to make you de englishized you see. the lama he expect you because i have demi offeecially inform him you have pass all your examination and will soon obtain government appointment. oh ho. you be on act allowance you see. so if you be call upon to help son of the charm mind you jolly well try. now i shall say good bye my dear fellow and i hope you ah will come out top side all raight. 
hurree babu step back a pace or two into the crowd at the entrance of lucknow station and be go. kim draw a deep breath and hug himself all over. the nickel plat revolver he could feel in the bosom of his sad colour robe the amulet be on his neck. beg gourd rosary and ghost dagger. mr lurgan have forget nothing. be all to hand with medicine paint box and compass and in a wear old purse belt embroider with porcupine quill pattern lay a month s pay. king could be no rich. he buy sweetmeat in a leaf cup from a hindu trader and eat them with glad rapture till a policeman order him off the step. 
chapter. 
give the man who be not make to his trade sword to fling and catch again coin to ring and snatch again men to harm and cure again snake to charm and lure again he ll be hurt by his own blade by his serpent disobey by his clumsiness bewray by the people mock to scorn so ti not with juggler bear. pinch of dust or wither flower chance fling fruit or borrow staff serve his need and shore his power bind the spell or loose the laugh. but a man who etc. 
the juggler s song op. 
follow a sudden natural reaction. 
now be i alone all alone he think. in all india be no one so alone a i. if i die today who shall bring the news and to whom. if i live and god be good there will be a price upon my head for i be a son of the charm i kim. 
a very few white people but many asiatic can throw themselves into a mazement a it be by repeat their own name over and over again to themselves let the mind go free upon speculation a to what be call personal identity. when one grow old the power usually depart but while it last it may descend upon a man at any moment. 
who be kim kim kim. 
he squat in a corner of the clang wait room rapt from all other thought. hand fold in lap and pupil contract to pin point. in a minute in another half second he felt he would arrive at the solution of the tremendous puzzle. but here a always happen his mind drop away from those height with a rush of a wound bird and pass his hand before his eye he shake his head. 
a long haired hindu bairagi [holy man] who have just buy a ticket halt before him at that moment and star intently. 
i also have lose it he say sadly. it be one of the gate to the way but for me it ha be shut many year. 
what be the talk. say kim abash. 
thou wast wonder there in thy spirit what manner of thing thy soul might be. the seizure come of a sudden. i know. who should know but i. whither go thou. 
toward kashi [benares]. 
there be no god there. i have prove them. i go to prayag [allahabad] for the fifth time seek the road to enlightenment. of what faith art thou. 
i too be a seeker say kim use one of the lama s pet word. though he forget his northern dress for the moment though allah alone knoweth what i seek. 
the old fellow slip the bairagi s crutch under his armpit and sit down on a patch of ruddy leopard s skin a kim rise at the call for the benares train. 
go in hope little brother he say. it be a long road to the foot of the one. but thither do we all travel. 
kim do not feel so lonely after this and ere he have sit out twenty mile in the crowd compartment be cheer his neighbour with a string of most wonderful yarn about his own and his master s magical gift. 
benares strike him a a peculiarly filthy city though it be pleasant to find how his cloth be respect. at least one third of the population pray eternally to some group or other of the many million deity and so revere every sort of holy man. kim be guide to the temple of the tirthankars about a mile outside the city near sarnath by a chance meet punjabi farmer a kamboh from jullundur way who have appeal in vain to every god of his homestead to cure his small son and be try benares a a last resort. 
thou art from the north. he ask shoulder through the press of the narrow stink street much like his own pet bull at home. 
ay i know the punjab. my mother be a pahareen but my father come from amritzar by jandiala say kim oil his ready tongue for the need of the road. 
jandiala jullundur. oho. then we be neighbour in some sort a it be. he nod tenderly to the wail child in his arm. whom dost thou serve. 
a most holy man at the temple of the tirthankers. 
they be all most holy and most greedy say the jat with bitterness. i have walk the pillar and tread the temple till my foot be flay and the child be no whit good. and the mother be sick too. hush then little one. we change his name when the fever come. we put him into girl s clothe. there be nothing we do not do except i say to his mother when she bundle me off to benares she should have come with me i say sakhi sarwar sultan would serve u best. we know his generosity but these down country god be stranger. 
the child turn on the cushion of the huge cord arm and look at kim through heavy eyelid. 
and be it all worthless. kim ask with easy interest. 
all worthless all worthless say the child lip crack with fever. 
the god have give him a good mind at least say the father proudly. to think he should have listen so cleverly. yonder be thy temple. now i be a poor man many priest have deal with me but my son be my son and if a gift to thy master can cure him i be at my very wit end. 
kim consider for a while tingle with pride. three year ago he would have make prompt profit on the situation and go his way without a think. but now the very respect the jat pay him prove that he be a man. moreover he have taste fever once or twice already and know enough to recognize starvation when he saw it. 
call him forth and i will give him a bond on my best yoke so that the child be cure. 
kim halt at the carve out door of the temple. a white clothe oswal banker from ajmir his sin of usury new wipe out ask him what he do. 
i be chela to teshoo lama an holy one from bhotiyal within there. he bid me come. i wait. tell him. 
do not forget the child cry the importunate jat over his shoulder and then bellow in punjabi. o holy one o disciple of the holy one o god above all the world behold affliction sit at the gate. that cry be so common in benares that the passer never turn their head. 
the oswal at peace with mankind carry the message into the darkness behind him and the easy uncounted eastern minute slide by. for the lama be asleep in his cell and no priest would wake him. when the click of his rosary again break the hush of the inner court where the calm image of the arhat stand a novice whisper thy chela be here and the old man stride forth forget the end of that prayer. 
hardly have the tall figure show in the doorway than the jat run before him and lift up the child cry. look upon this holy one. and if the god will he life he life. 
he fumble in his waist belt and draw out a small silver coin. 
what be now. the lama s eye turn to kim. it be noticeable he speak far clear urdu than long ago under zamzammah. but father would allow no private talk. 
it be no more than a fever say kim. the child be not well feed. 
he sicken at everything and his mother be not here. 
if it be permit i may cure holy one. 
what. have they make thee a healer. wait here say the lama and he sit down by the jat upon the low step of the temple while kim look out of the corner of his eye slowly open the little betel box. he have dream dream at school of return to the lama a a sahib of chaff the old man before he reveal himself boy s dream all. there be more drama in this abstract brow pucker search through the tabloid bottle with a pause here and there for think and a mutter invocation between while. quinine he have in tablet and dark brown meat lozenge beef most probably but that be not his business. the little thing would not eat but it suck at a lozenge greedily and say it like the salt taste. 
take then these six. kim hand them to the man. praise the god and boil three in milk. other three in water. after he ha drink the milk give him this. it be the half of a quinine pill. and wrap him warm. give him the water of the other three and the other half of this white pill when he wake. meantime here be another brown medicine that he may suck at on the way home. 
god what wisdom. say the kamboh snatch. 
it be a much a kim could remember of his own treatment in a bout of autumn malaria if you except the patter that he add to impress the lama. 
now go. come again in the morning. 
but the price the price say the jat and throw back his sturdy shoulder. my son be my son. now that he will be whole again how shall i go back to his mother and say i take help by the wayside and do not even give a bowl of curd in return. 
they be alike these jat say kim softly. the jat stand on his dunghill and the king s elephant go by. o driver say he what will you sell those little donkey for. 
the jat burst into a roar of laughter stifle with apology to the lama. it be the say of my own country the very talk of it. so be we jat all. i will come tomorrow with the child. and the bless of the god of the homestead who be good little god be on you both. now son we grow strong again. do not spit it out little princeling. king of my heart do not spit it out and we shall be strong men wrestler and club wielders by morning. 
he move away croon and mumble. the lama turn to kim and all the love old soul of him look out through his narrow eye. 
to heal the sick be to acquire merit. but first one get knowledge. that be wisely do o friend of all the world. 
i be make wise by thee holy one say kim forget the little play just end. forget st xavier s. forget his white blood. forget even the great game a he stoop mohammedan fashion to touch his master s foot in the dust of the jain temple. my teach i owe to thee. i have eat thy bread three year. my time be finish. i be loose from the school. i come to thee. 
herein be my reward. enter. enter. and be all well. they pass to the inner court where the afternoon sun slop golden across. stand that i may see. so. he peer critically. it be no long a child but a man ripen in wisdom walk a a physician. i do well i do well when i give thee up to the arm men on that black night. dost thou remember our first day under zam zammah. 
ay say kim. dost thou remember when i leap off the carriage the first day i go to. 
the gate of learn. truly. and the day that we eat the cake together at the back of the river by nucklao. aha. many time hast thou beg for me but that day i beg for thee. 
good reason quoth kim. i be then a scholar in the gate of learn and attire a a sahib. do not forget holy one he go on playfully. i be still a sahib by thy favour. 
true. and a sahib in most high esteem. come to my cell chela. 
how be that know to thee. 
the lama smile. first by mean of letter from the kindly priest whom we meet in the camp of arm men. but he be now go to his own country and i send the money to his brother. colonel creighton who have succeed to the trusteeship when father victor go to england with the maverick be hardly the chaplain s brother. but i do not well understand sahib letter. they must be interpret to me. i choose a sure way. many time when i return from my search to this temple which ha always be a nest to me there come one seek enlightenment a man from leh that have be he say a hindu but weary of all those god. the lama point to the arhat. 
a fat man. say kim a twinkle in his eye. 
very fat. but i perceive in a little his mind be wholly give up to useless thing such a devil and charm and the form and fashion of our tea drinking in the monastery and by what road we initiate the novice. a man abound in question. but he be a friend of thine chela. he tell me that thou wast on the road to much honour a a scribe. and i see thou art a physician. 
yes that be i a scribe when i be a sahib but it be set aside when i come a thy disciple. i have accomplish the year appoint for a sahib. 
a it be a novice. say the lama nod his head. art thou free from the school. i would not have thee unripe. 
i be all free. in due time i take service under the government a a scribe. 
not a a warrior. that be well. 
but first i come to wander with thee. therefore i be here. who beg for thee these day. he go on quickly. the ice be thin. 
very often i beg myself. but a thou knowest i be seldom here except when i come to look again at my disciple. from one end to another of hind have i travel afoot and in the te rain. a great and a wonderful land. but here when i put in be a though i be in my own bhotiyal. 
he look round the little clean cell complacently. a low cushion give him a seat on which he have dispose himself in the cross legged attitude of the bodhisat emerge from meditation. a black teak wood table not twenty inch high set with copper tea cup be before him. in one corner stand a tiny altar also of heavily carve teak bear a copper gild image of the seat buddha and front by a lamp an incense holder and a pair of copper flower pot. 
the keeper of the image in the wonder house acquire merit by give me these a year since he say follow kim s eye. when one be far from one s own land such thing carry remembrance. and we must reverence the lord for that he show the way. see. he point to a curiously build mound of colour rice crown with a fantastic metal ornament. when i be abbot in my own place before i come to good knowledge i make that offer daily. it be the sacrifice of the universe to the lord. thus do we of bhotiyal offer all the world daily to the excellent law. and i do it even now though i know that the excellent one be beyond all pinch and pattings. he snuff from his gourd. 
it be well do holy one kim murmur sink at ease on the cushion very happy and rather tire. 
and also the old man chuckle i write picture of the wheel of life. three day to a picture. i be busy on it or it may be i shut my eye a little when they bring word of thee. it be good to have thee here. i will show thee my art not for pride s sake but because thou must learn. the sahib have not all this world s wisdom. 
he draw from under the table a sheet of strangely scent yellow chinese paper the brush and slab of indian ink. in clean severe outline he have trace the great wheel with it six spoke whose centre be the conjoin hog snake and dive. ignorance anger and lust. and whose compartment be all the heaven and hell and all the chance of human life. men say that the bodhisat himself first draw it with grain of rice upon dust to teach his disciple the cause of thing. many age have crystallize it into a most wonderful convention crowd with hundred of little figure whose every line carry a mean. few can translate the picture parable. there be not twenty in all the world who can draw it surely without a copy. of those who can both draw and expound be but three. 
i have a little learn to draw say kim. but this be a marvel beyond marvel. 
i have write it for many year say the lama. time be when i could write it all between one lamp light and the next. i will teach thee the art after due preparation. and i will show thee the mean of the wheel. 
we take the road then. 
the road and our search. i be but wait for thee. it be make plain to me in a hundred dream notably one that come upon the night of the day that the gate of learn first shut that without thee i should never find my river. again and again a thou knowest i put this from me fear an illusion. therefore i would not take thee with me that day at lucknow when we eat the cake. i would not take thee till the time be ripe and auspicious. from the hill to the sea from the sea to the hill have i go but it be vain. then i remember the tataka. 
he tell kim the story of the elephant with the leg iron a he have tell it so often to the jam priest. 
further testimony be not need he end serenely. thou wast send for an aid. that aid remove my search come to naught. therefore we will go out again together and our search sure. 
whither go we. 
what matter friend of all the world. the search i say be sure. if need be the river will break from the grind before u. i acquire merit when i send thee to the gate of learn and give thee the jewel that be wisdom. thou didst return i saw even now a follower of sakyamuni the physician whose altar be many in bhotiyal. it be sufficient. we be together and all thing be a they be friend of all the world friend of the star my chela. 
then they talk of matter secular. but it be noticeable that the lama never demand any detail of life at st xavier s nor show the faint curiosity a to the manner and custom of sahib. his mind move all in the past and he revive every step of their wonderful first journey together rub his hand and chuckle till it please him to curl himself up into the sudden sleep of old age. 
kim watch the last dusty sunshine fade out of the court and play with his ghost dagger and rosary. the clamour of benares old of all earth s city awake before the god day and night beat round the wall a the sea s roar round a breakwater. now and again a jain priest cross the court with some small offer to the image and sweep the path about him l by chance he should take the life of a live thing. a lamp twinkle and there follow the sound of a prayer. kim watch the star a they rise one after another in the still sticky dark till he fell asleep at the foot of the altar. that night he dream in hindustani with never an english word. 
holy one there be the child to whom we give the medicine he say about three o clock in the morning when the lama also wake from dream would have fare forth on pilgrimage. the jat will be here at the light. 
i be well answer. in my haste i would have do a wrong. he sit down on the cushion and return to his rosary. surely old folk be a child he say pathetically. they desire a matter behold it must be do at once or they fret and weep. many time when i be upon the road i have be ready to stamp with my foot at the hindrance of an ox cart in the way or a mere cloud of dust. it be not so when i be a man a long time ago. none the le it be wrongful. 
but thou art indeed old holy one. 
the thing be do. a cause be put out into the world and old or young sick or sound know or unknowing who can rein in the effect of that cause. doe the wheel hang still if a child spin it or a drunkard. chela this be a great and a terrible world. 
i think it good kim yawn. what be there to eat. i have not eat since yesterday even. 
i have forget thy need. yonder be good bhotiyal tea and cold rice. 
we cannot walk far on such stuff. kim felt all the european s lust for flesh meat which be not accessible in a jain temple. yet instead of go out at once with the beg bowl he stay his stomach on slab of cold rice till the full dawn. it bring the farmer voluble stutter with gratitude. 
in the night the fever break and the sweat come he cry. feel here his skin be fresh and new. he esteem the salt lozenge and take milk with greed. he draw the cloth from the child s face and it smile sleepily at kim. a little knot of jain priest silent but all observant gather by the temple door. they know and kim know that they know how the old lama have meet his disciple. be courteous folk they have not obtrude themselves overnight by presence word or gesture. wherefore kim repay them a the sun rise. 
thank the god of the jains brother he say not know how those god be name. the fever be indeed break. 
look. see. the lama beam in the background upon his host of three year. be there ever such a chela. he follow our lord the healer. 
now the jains officially recognize all the god of the hindu creed a well a the lingam and the snake. they wear the brahminical thread. they adhere to every claim of hindu caste law. but because they know and love the lama because he be an old man because he seek the way because he be their guest and because he collogue long of night with the head priest a free think a metaphysician a ever split one hair into seventy they murmur assent. 
remember kim bend over the child. this trouble may come again. 
not if thou hast the proper spell say the father. 
but in a little while we go away. 
true say the lama to all the jains. we go now together upon the search whereof i have often speak. i wait till my chela be ripe. behold him. we go north. never again shall i look upon this place of my rest o people of good will. 
but i be not a beggar. the cultivator rise to his foot clutch the child. 
be still. do not trouble the holy one a priest cry. 
go kim whisper. meet u again under the big railway bridge and for the sake of all the god of our punjab bring food curry pulse cake fry in fat and sweetmeat. specially sweetmeat. be swift. 
the pallor of hunger suit kim very well a he stand tall and slim in his sand colour sweep robe one hand on his rosary and the other in the attitude of benediction faithfully copy from the lama. an english observer might have say that he look rather like the young saint of a stain glass window whereas he be but a grow lad faint with emptiness. 
long and formal be the farewell thrice end and thrice renew. the seeker he who have invite the lama to that haven from far away tibet a silver face hairless ascetic take no part in it but meditate a always alone among the image. the others be very human. press small comfort upon the old man a betel box a fine new iron pencase a food bag and such like warn him against the danger of the world without and prophesy a happy end to the search. meantime kim lonely than ever squat on the step and swear to himself in the language of st xavier s. 
but it be my own fault he conclude. with mahbub i eat mahbub s bread or lurgan sahib s. at st xavier s three meal a day. here i must jolly well look out for myself. besides i be not in good train. how i could eat a plate of beef now. be it finish holy one. 
the lama both hand raise intone a final bless in ornate chinese. i must lean on thy shoulder say he a the temple gate close. we grow stiff i think. 
the weight of a six foot man be not light to steady through mile of crowd street and kim load down with bundle and package for the way be glad to reach the shadow of the railway bridge. 
here we eat he say resolutely a the kamboh blue rob and smile heave in sight a basket in one hand and the child in the other. 
fall to holy one. he cry from fifty yard. they be by the shoal under the first bridge span out of sight of hungry priest. rice and good curry cake all warm and well scent with hing [asafoetida] curd and sugar. king of my field this to the small son let u show these holy men that we jat of jullundur can pay a service. i have hear the jains would eat nothing that they have not cook but truly he look away politely over the broad river where there be no eye there be no caste. 
and we say kim turn his back and heap a leafplatter for the lama be beyond all caste. 
they gorge themselves on the good food in silence. nor till he have lick the last of the sticky sweetstuff from his little finger do kim note that the kamboh too be gird for travel. 
if our road lie together he say roughly i go with thee. one doe not often find a worker of miracle and the child be still weak. but i be not altogether a reed. he pick up his lathi a five foot male bamboo ring with band of polish iron and flourish it in the air. the jat be call quarrel some but that be not true. except when we be cross we be like our own buffalo. 
so be it say kim. a good stick be a good reason. 
the lama gaze placidly up stream where in long smudge perspective the ceaseless column of smoke go up from the burn ghat by the river. now and again despite all municipal regulation the fragment of a half burn body bob by on the full current. 
but for thee say the kamboh to kim draw the child into his hairy breast i might today have go thither with this one. the priest tell u that benares be holy which none doubt and desirable to die in. but i do not know their god and they ask for money. and when one ha do one worship a shave head vow it be of none effect except one do another. wash here. wash there. pour drink lave and scatter flower but always pay the priest. no the punjab for me and the soil of the jullundur doab for the best soil in it. 
i have say many time in the temple i think that if need be the river will open at our foot. we will therefore go north say the lama rise. i remember a pleasant place set about with fruit tree where one can walk in meditation and the air be cool there. it come from the hill and the snow of the hill. 
what be the name. say kim. 
how should i know. didst thou not no that be after the army rise out of the earth and take thee away. i abide there in meditation in a room against the dovecot except when she talk eternally. 
oho. the woman from kulu. that be by saharunpore. kim laugh. 
how doe the spirit move thy master. doe he go afoot for the sake of past sin. the jat demand cautiously. it be a far cry to delhi. 
no say kim. i will beg a tikkut for the te rain. one doe not own to the possession of money in india. 
then in the name of the god let u take the fire carriage. my son be best in his mother s arm. the government ha bring on u many tax but it give u one good thing the te rain that join friend and unite the anxious. a wonderful matter be the te rain. 
they all pile into it a couple of hour late and sleep through the heat of the day. the kamboh ply kim with ten thousand question a to the lama s walk and work in life and receive some curious answer. kim be content to be where he be to look out upon the flat north western landscape and to talk to the change mob of fellow passenger. even today ticket and ticket clip be dark oppression to indian rustic. they do not understand why when they have pay for a magic piece of paper stranger should punch great piece out of the charm. so long and furious be the debate between traveller and eurasian ticket collector. kim assist at two or three with grave advice mean to darken counsel and to show off his wisdom before the lama and the admire kamboh. but at somna road the fate send him a matter to think upon. there tumble into the compartment a the train be move off a mean lean little person a mahratta so far a kim could judge by the cock of the tight turban. his face be cut his muslin upper garment be badly tear and one leg be bandage. he tell them that a country cart have upset and nearly slay him. he be go to delhi where his son live. kim watch him closely. if a he assert he have be roll over and over on the earth there should have be sign of gravel rash on the skin. but all his injury seem clean cut and a mere fall from a cart could not cast a man into such extremity of terror. a with shake finger he knot up the tear cloth about his neck he lay bare an amulet of the kind call a keeper up of the heart. now amulet be common enough but they be not generally string on square plait copper wire and still few amulet bear black enamel on silver. there be none except the kamboh and the lama in the compartment which luckily be of an old type with solid end. kim make a to scratch in his bosom and thereby lift his own amulet. the mahratta s face change altogether at the sight and he dispose the amulet fairly on his breast. 
yes he go on to the kamboh i be in haste and the cart drive by a bastard bind it wheel in a water cut and besides the harm do to me there be lose a full dish of tarkeean. i be not a son of the charm [a lucky man] that day. 
that be a great loss say the kamboh withdraw interest. his experience of benares have make him suspicious. 
who cook it. say kim. 
a woman. the mahratta raise his eye. 
but all woman can cook tarkeean say the kamboh. it be a good curry a i know. 
oh yes it be a good curry say the mahratta. 
and cheap say kim. but what about caste. 
oh there be no caste where men go to look for tarkeean the mahratta reply in the prescribe cadence. of whose service art thou. 
of the service of this holy one. kim point to the happy drowsy lama who wake with a jerk at the well love word. 
ah he be send from heaven to aid me. he be call the friend of all the world. he be also call the friend of the star. he walk a a physician his time be ripe. great be his wisdom. 
and a son of the charm say kim under his breath a the kamboh make haste to prepare a pipe l the mahratta should beg. 
and who be that. the mahratta ask glance sideways nervously. 
one whose child i we have cure who lie under great debt to u. sit by the window man from jullundur. here be a sick one. 
humph. i have no desire to mix with chance meet wastrel. my ear be not long. i be not a woman wish to overhear secret. the jat slide himself heavily into a far corner. 
art thou anything of a healer. i be ten league deep in calamity cry the mahratta pick up the cue. 
this man be cut and bruise all over. i go about to cure him kim retort. none interfere between thy babe and me. 
i be rebuke say the kamboh meekly. i be thy debtor for the life of my son. thou art a miracle worker i know it. 
show me the cut. kim bend over the mahratta s neck his heart nearly choke him. for this be the great game with a vengeance. now tell thy tale swiftly brother while i say a charm. 
i come from the south where my work lay. one of u they slew by the roadside. hast thou hear. kim shake his head. he of course know nothing of e s predecessor slay down south in the habit of an arab trader. have find a certain letter which i be send to seek i come away. i escape from the city and run to mhow. so sure be i that none know i do not change my face. at mhow a woman bring charge against me of theft of jewellery in that city which i have leave. then i saw the cry be out against me. i run from mhow by night bribe the police who have be bribe to hand me over without question to my enemy in the south. then i lay in old chitor city a week a penitent in a temple but i could not get rid of the letter which be my charge. i bury it under the queen s stone at chitor in the place know to u all. 
kim do not know but not for world would he have break the thread. 
at chitor look you i be all in king country. for kotah to the east be beyond the queen s law and east again lie jaipur and gwalior. neither love spy and there be no justice. i be hunt like a wet jackal. but i break through at bandakui where i hear there be a charge against me of murder in the city i have leave of the murder of a boy. they have both the corpse and the witness wait. 
but cannot the government protect. 
we of the game be beyond protection. if we die we die. our name be blot from the book. that be all. at bandakui where life one of u i think to slip the scent by change my face and so make me a mahratta. then i come to agra and would have turn back to chitor to recover the letter. so sure i be i have slip them. therefore i do not send a tar [telegram] to any one say where the letter lay. i wish the credit of it all. 
kim nod. he understand that feel well. 
but at agra walk in the street a man cry a debt against me and approach with many witness would hale me to the court then and there. oh they be clever in the south. he recognize me a his agent for cotton. may he burn in hell for it. 
and wast thou. 
o fool. i be the man they seek for the matter of the letter. i run into the fleshers ward and come out by the house of the jew who fear a riot and push me forth. i come afoot to somna road i have only money for my tikkut to delhi and there while i lay in a ditch with a fever one spring out of the bush and beat me and cut me and search me from head to foot. within earshot of the terain it be. 
why do he not slay thee out of hand. 
they be not so foolish. if i be take in delhi at the instance of lawyer upon a prove charge of murder my body be hand over to the state that desire it. i go back guard and then i die slowly for an example to the rest of u. the south be not my country. i run in circle like a goat with one eye. i have not eat for two day. i be mark he touch the filthy bandage on his leg so that they will know me at delhi. 
thou art safe in the te rain at least. 
live a year at the great game and tell me that again. the wire will be out against me at delhi describe every tear and rag upon me. twenty a hundred if need be will have see me slay that boy. and thou art useless. 
kim know enough of native method of attack not to doubt that the case would be deadly complete even to the corpse. the mahratta twitch his finger with pain from time to time. the kamboh in his corner glare sullenly. the lama be busy over his bead. and kim fumble doctor fashion at the man s neck think out his plan between invocation. 
hast thou a charm to change my shape. else i be dead. five ten minute alone if i have not be so press and i might. 
be he cure yet miracle worker. say the kamboh jealously. thou hast chant long enough. 
nay. there be no cure for his hurt a i see except he sit for three day in the habit of a bairagi. this be a common penance often impose on a fat trader by his spiritual teacher. 
one priest always go about to make another priest be the retort. like most grossly superstitious folk the kamboh could not keep his tongue from deride his church. 
will thy son be a priest then. it be time he take more of my quinine. 
we jat be all buffalo say the kamboh soften anew. 
kim rub a finger tip of bitterness on the child s trust little lip. i have ask for nothing he say sternly to the father except food. dost thou grudge me that. i go to heal another man. have i thy leave prince. 
up fly the man s huge paw in supplication. nay nay. do not mock me thus. 
it plea me to cure this sick one. thou shalt acquire merit by aid. what colour ash be there in thy pipe bowl. white. that be auspicious. be there raw turmeric among thy foodstuff. 
i i. 
open thy bundle. 
it be the usual collection of small oddment. bit of cloth quack medicine cheap fair a clothful of atta greyish rough grind native flour twist of down country tobacco tawdry pipe stem and a packet of curry stuff all wrap in a quilt. kim turn it over with the air of a wise warlock mutter a mohammedan invocation. 
this be wisdom i learn from the sahib he whisper to the lama. and here when one think of his train at lurgan s he speak no more than the truth. there be a great evil in this man s fortune a show by the star which which trouble him. shall i take it away. 
friend of the star thou hast do well in all thing. let it be at thy pleasure. be it another heal. 
quick. be quick. gasp the mahratta. the train may stop. 
a heal against the shadow of death say kim mix the kamboh s flour with the mingle charcoal and tobacco ash in the red earth bowl of the pipe. e without a word slip off his turban and shake down his long black hair. 
that be my food priest the jat growl. 
a buffalo in the temple. hast thou dare to look even thus far. say kim. i must do mystery before fool. but have a care for thine eye. be there a film before them already. i save the babe and for return thou oh shameless. the man flinch at the direct gaze for kim be wholly in earnest. 
shall i curse thee or shall i he pick up the out cloth of the bundle and throw it over the bow head. dare so much a to think a wish to see and and even i cannot save thee. sit. be dumb. 
i be blind dumb. forbear to curse. co come child. we will play a game of hide. do not for my sake look from under the cloth. 
i see hope say e. what be thy scheme. 
this come next say kim pluck the thin body shirt. e hesitate with all a north west man s dislike of bar his body. 
what be caste to a cut throat. say kim rend it to the waist. we must make thee a yellow saddhu all over. strip strip swiftly and shake thy hair over thine eye while i scatter the ash. now a caste mark on thy forehead. he draw from his bosom the little survey paint box and a cake of crimson lake. 
art thou only a beginner. say e labour literally for the dear life a he slide out of his body wrapping and stand clear in the loin cloth while kim splash in a noble caste mark on the ash smear brow. 
but two day enter to the game brother kim reply. smear more ash on the bosom. 
hast thou meet a physician of sick pearl. he switch out his long tight roll turban cloth and with swift hand roll it over and under about his loin into the intricate device of a saddhu s cincture. 
hah. dost thou know his touch then. he be my teacher for a while. we must bar thy leg. ash cure wound. smear it again. 
i be his pride once but thou art almost good. the god be kind to u. give me that. 
it be a tin box of opium pill among the rubbish of the jat s bundle. e gulp down a half handful. they be good against hunger fear and chill. and they make the eye red too he explain. now i shall have heart to play the game. we lack only a saddhu s tongs. what of the old clothe. 
kim roll them small and stuff them into the slack fold of his tunic. with a yellow ochre paint cake he smear the leg and the breast great streak against the background of flour ash and turmeric. 
the blood on them be enough to hang thee brother. 
maybe. but no need to throw them out of the window. it be finish. his voice thrill with a boy s pure delight in the game. turn and look o jat. 
the god protect u say the hood kamboh emerge like a buffalo from the reed. but whither go the mahratta. what hast thou do. 
kim have be train by lurgan sahib. e by virtue of his business be no bad actor. in place of the tremulous shrink trader there loll against the corner an all but naked ash smear ochre bar dusty haired saddhu his swell eye opium take quick effect on an empty stomach luminous with insolence and bestial lust his leg cross under him kim s brown rosary round his neck and a scant yard of wear flower chintz on his shoulder. the child bury his face in his amaze father s arm. 
look up princeling. we travel with warlock but they will not hurt thee. oh do not cry. what be the sense of cure a child one day and kill him with fright the next. 
the child will be fortunate all his life. he ha see a great heal. when i be a child i make clay men and horse. 
i have make them too. sir banas he come in the night and make them all alive at the back of our kitchen midden pip the child. 
and so thou art not frighten at anything. eh prince. 
i be frighten because my father be frighten. i felt his arm shake. 
oh chicken man. say kim and even the abash jat laugh. i have do a heal on this poor trader. he must forsake his gain and his account book and sit by the wayside three night to overcome the malignity of his enemy. the star be against him. 
the few money lender the good say i. but saddhu or no saddhu he should pay for my stuff on his shoulder. 
so. but that be thy child on thy shoulder give over to the burn ghat not two day ago. there remain one thing more. i do this charm in thy presence because need be great. i change his shape and his soul. none the le if by any chance o man from jullundur thou rememberest what thou hast see either among the elder sit under the village tree or in thine own house or in company of thy priest when he bless thy cattle a murrain will come among the buffalo and a fire in thy thatch and rat in the corn bin and the curse of our god upon thy field that they may be barren before thy foot and after thy ploughshare. this be part of an old curse pick up from a fakir by the taksali gate in the day of kim s innocence. it lose nothing by repetition. 
cease holy one. in mercy cease. cry the jat. do not curse the household. i saw nothing. i hear nothing. i be thy cow. and he make to grab at kim s bare foot beat rhythmically on the carriage floor. but since thou hast be permit to aid me in the matter of a pinch of flour and a little opium and such trifle a i have honour by use in my art so will the god return a bless and he give it at length to the man s immense relief. it be one that he have learn from lurgan sahib. 
the lama star through his spectacle a he have not star at the business of disguisement. friend of the star he say at last thou hast acquire great wisdom. beware that it do not give birth to pride. no man have the law before his eye speak hastily of any matter which he ha see or encounter. 
no no no indeed cry the farmer fearful l the master should be mind to improve on the pupil. e with relax mouth give himself up to the opium that be meat tobacco and medicine to the spend asiatic. 
so in a silence of awe and great miscomprehension they slide into delhi about lamp light time. 
chapter. 
who hath desire the sea the sight of salt water unbounded. the heave and the halt and the hurl and the crash of the comber wind hound. the sleek barrel swell before storm grey foamless enormous and grow. stark calm on the lap of the line or the crazy eye hurricane blow. his sea in no show the same his sea and the same neath all show his sea that his be fulfil. so and no otherwise so and no otherwise hill men desire their hill. 
the sea and the hill. 
i have find my heart again say e under cover of the platform s tumult. hunger and fear make men daze or i might have think of this escape before. i be right. they come to hunt for me. thou hast save my head. 
a group of yellow trousered punjab policeman head by a hot and perspire young englishman part the crowd about the carriage. behind them inconspicuous a a cat amble a small fat person who look like a lawyer s tout. 
see the young sahib read from a paper. my description be in his hand say e. thev go carriage by carriage like fisher folk net a pool. 
when the procession reach their compartment e be count his bead with a steady jerk of the wrist. while kim jeer at him for be so drug a to have lose the ring fire tongs which be the saddhu s distinguish mark. the lama deep in meditation star straight before him. and the farmer glance furtively gather up his belonging. 
nothing here but a parcel of holy bolies say the englishman aloud and pass on amid a ripple of uneasiness. for native police mean extortion to the native all india over. 
the trouble now whisper e lie in send a wire a to the place where i hide that letter i be send to find. i cannot go to the tar office in this guise. 
be it not enough i have save thy neck. 
not if the work be leave unfinished. do never the healer of sick pearl tell thee so. come another sahib. ah. 
this be a tallish sallowish district superintendent of police belt helmet polish spur and all strut and twirl his dark moustache. 
what fool be these police sahib. say kim genially. 
e glance up under his eyelid. it be well say he mutter in a change voice. i go to drink water. keep my place. 
he blunder out almost into the englishman s arm and be bad word in clumsy urdu. 
tum mut. you drink. you mustn t bang about a though delhi station belong to you my friend. 
e not move a muscle of his countenance answer with a stream of the filthy abuse at which kim naturally rejoice. it remind him of the drummer boy and the barrack sweeper at umballa in the terrible time of his first school. 
my good fool the englishman drawl. nickle jao. go back to your carriage. 
step by step withdraw deferentially and drop his voice the yellow saddhu clomb back to the carriage curse the d. s. p. to remote posterity by here kim almost jump by the curse of the queen s stone by the write under the queen s stone and by an assortment of god with wholly new name. 
i don t know what you re say the englishman flush angrily but it s some piece of blast impertinence. come out of that. 
e affect to misunderstand gravely produce his ticket which the englishman wrench angrily from his hand. 
oh zoolum. what oppression. growl the jat from his corner. all for the sake of a jest too. he have be grin at the freedom of the saddhu s tongue. thy charm do not work well today holy one. 
the saddhu follow the policeman fawn and supplicate. the ruck of passenger busy with their baby and their bundle have not notice the affair. kim slip out behind him. for it flash through his head that he have hear this angry stupid sahib discourse loud personality to an old lady near umballa three year ago. 
it be well the saddhu whisper jam in the call shout bewilder press a persian greyhound between his foot and a cageful of yell hawk under charge of a rajput falconer in the small of his back. he ha go now to send word of the letter which i hide. they tell me he be in peshawur. i might have know that he be like the crocodile always at the other ford. he ha save me from present calamity but i owe my life to thee. 
be he also one of u. kim duck under a mewar camel driver s greasy armpit and cannon off a covey of jabber sikh matron. 
not le than the great. we be both fortunate. i will make report to him of what thou hast do. i be safe under his protection. 
he bore through the edge of the crowd besiege the carriage and squat by the bench near the telegraph office. 
return or they take thy place. have no fear for the work brother or my life. thou hast give me breathe space and strickland sahib ha pull me to land. we may work together at the game yet. farewell. 
kim hurry to his carriage. elate bewilder but a little nettle in that he have no key to the secret about him. 
i be only a beginner at the game that be sure. i could not have leap into safety a do the saddhu. he know it be dark under the lamp. i could not have think to tell news under pretence of curse. and how clever be the sahib. no matter i save the life of one. where be the kamboh go holy one. he whisper a he take his seat in the now crowd compartment. 
a fear grip him the lama reply with a touch of tender malice. he saw thee change the mahratta to a saddhu in the twinkle of an eye a a protection against evil. that shake him. then he saw the saddhu fall sheer into the hand of the polis all the effect of thy art. then he gather up his son and flee. for he say that thou didst change a quiet trader into an impudent bandy of word with the sahib and he fear a like fate. where be the saddhu. 
with the polis say kim. yet i save the kamboh s child. 
the lama snuff blandly. 
ah chela see how thou art overtake. thou didst cure the kamboh s child solely to acquire merit. but thou didst put a spell on the mahratta with prideful working i watch thee and with sidelong glance to bewilder an old old man and a foolish farmer. whence calamity and suspicion. 
kim control himself with an effort beyond his year. not more than any other youngster do he like to eat dirt or to be misjudge but he saw himself in a cleave stick. the train roll out of delhi into the night. 
it be true he murmur. where i have offend thee i have do wrong. 
it be more chela. thou hast loose an act upon the world and a a stone throw into a pool so spread the consequence thou canst not tell how far. 
this ignorance be well both for kim s vanity and for the lama s peace of mind when we think that there be then be hand in at simla a code wire report the arrival of e at delhi and more important the whereabouts of a letter he have be commission to abstract. incidentally an over zealous policeman have arrest on charge of murder do in a far southern state a horribly indignant ajmir cotton broke who be explain himself to a mr strickland on delhi platform while e be paddle through byway into the lock heart of delhi city. in two hour several telegram have reach the angry minister of a southern state report that all trace of a somewhat bruise mahratta have be lose. and by the time the leisurely train halt at saharunpore the last ripple of the stone kim have help to heave be lap against the step of a mosque in far away roum where it disturb a pious man at prayer. 
the lama make his in ample form near the dewy bougainvillea trellis near the platform cheer by the clear sunshine and the presence of his disciple. we will put these thing behind u he say indicate the brazen engine and the gleam track. the jolt of the te rain though a wonderful thing ha turn my bone to water. we will use clean air henceforward. 
let u go to the kulu woman s house say kim and step forth cheerily under the bundle. early morning saharunpore way be clean and well scent. he think of the other morning at st xavier s and it top his already thrice heap contentment. 
where be this new haste bear from. wise men do not run about like chicken in the sun. we have come hundred upon hundred of kos already and till now i have scarcely be alone with thee an instant. how canst thou receive instruction all jostle of crowd. how can i whelm by a flux of talk meditate upon the way. 
her tongue grow no short with the year then. the disciple smile. 
nor her desire for charm. i remember once when i speak of the wheel of life the lama fumble in his bosom for his late copy she be only curious about the devil that besiege child. she shall acquire merit by entertain u in a little while at an after occasion softly softly. now we will wander loose foot wait upon the chain of thing. the search be sure. 
so they travel very easily across and among the broad bloomful fruit garden by way of aminabad sahaigunge akrola of the ford and little phulesa the line of the siwaliks always to the north and behind them again the snow. after long sweet sleep under the dry star come the lordly leisurely passage through a wake village beg bowl hold forth in silence but eye rove in defiance of the law from sky s edge to sky s edge. then would kim return soft foot through the soft dust to his master under the shadow of a mango tree or the thin shade of a white doon siris to eat and drink at ease. at mid day after talk and a little wayfaring they sleep. meet the world refresh when the air be cool. night find them adventure into new territory some choose village spy three hour before across the fat land and much discuss upon the road. 
there they tell their tale a new one each even so far a kim be concern and there be they make welcome either by priest or headman after the custom of the kindly east. 
when the shadow shorten and the lama lean more heavily upon kim there be always the wheel of life to draw forth to hold flat under wipe stone and with a long straw to expound cycle by cycle. here sit the god on high and they be dream of dream. here be our heaven and the world of the demi god horseman fight among the hill. here be the agony do upon the beast soul ascend or descend the ladder and therefore not to be interfere with. here be the hell hot and cold and the abode of torment ghost. let the chela study the trouble that come from over eat bloat stomach and burn bowel. obediently then with bow head and brown finger alert to follow the pointer do the chela study. but when they come to the human world busy and profitless that be just above the hell his mind be distract. for by the roadside trundle the very wheel itself eat drink trade marry and quarrel all warmly alive. often the lama make the live picture the matter of his text bid kim too ready note how the flesh take a thousand shape desirable or detestable a men reckon but in truth of no account either way. and how the stupid spirit bond slave to the hog the dive and the serpent lust after betel nut a new yoke of ox woman or the favour of king be bind to follow the body through all the heaven and all the hell and strictly round again. sometimes a woman or a poor man watch the ritual it be nothing le when the great yellow chart be unfold would throw a few flower or a handful of cowry upon it edge. it suffice these humble one that they have meet a holy one who might be move to remember them in his prayer. 
cure them if they be sick say the lama when kim s sport instinct wake. cure them if they have fever but by no mean work charm. remember what befall the mahratta. 
then all do be evil. kim reply lie out under a big tree at the fork of the doon road watch the little ant run over his hand. 
to abstain from action be well except to acquire merit. 
at the gate of learn we be teach that to abstain from action be unbefitting a sahib. and i be a sahib. 
friend of all the world the lama look directly at kim i be an old man please with show a be child. to those who follow the way there be neither black nor white hind nor bhotiyal. we be all soul seek escape. no matter what thy wisdom learn among sahib when we come to my river thou wilt be free from all illusion at my side. hai. my bone ache for that river a they ache in the te rain. but my spirit sit above my bone wait. the search be sure. 
i be answer. be it permit to ask a question. 
the lama incline his stately head. 
i eat thy bread for three year a thou knowest. holy one whence come. 
there be much wealth a men count it in bhotiyal the lama return with composure. in my own place i have the illusion of honour. i ask for that i need. i be not concern with the account. that be for my monastery. ai. the black high seat in the monastery and novice all in order. 
and he tell story trace with a finger in the dust of the immense and sumptuous ritual of avalanche guard cathedral. of procession and devil dance. of the change of monk and nun into swine. of holy city fifteen thousand foot in the air. of intrigue between monastery and monastery. of voice among the hill and of that mysterious mirage that dance on dry snow. he speak even of lhassa and of the dalai lama whom he have see and adore. 
each long perfect day rise behind kim for a barrier to cut him off from his race and his mother tongue. he slip back to think and dream in the vernacular and mechanically follow the lama s ceremonial observance at eat drink and the like. the old man s mind turn more and more to his monastery a his eye turn to the steadfast snow. his river trouble him nothing. now and again indeed he would gaze long and long at a tuft or a twig expect he say the earth to cleave and deliver it bless. but he be content to be with his disciple at ease in the temperate wind that come down from the doon. this be not ceylon nor buddh gaya nor bombay nor some grass tangle ruin that he seem to have stumble upon two year ago. he speak of those place a a scholar remove from vanity a a seeker walk in humility a an old man wise and temperate illumine knowledge with brilliant insight. bite by bite disconnectedly each tale call up by some wayside thing he speak of all his wandering up and down hind. till kim who have love him without reason now love him for fifty good reason. so they enjoy themselves in high felicity abstain a the rule demand from evil word covetous desire. not over eat not lie on high bed nor wear rich clothe. their stomach tell them the time and the people bring them their food a the say be. they be lord of the village of aminabad sahaigunge akrola of the ford and little phulesa where kim give the soulless woman a bless. 
but news travel fast in india and too soon shuffle across the crop land bear a basket of fruit with a box of kabul grape and gild orange a white whisker servitor a lean dry oorya beg them to bring the honour of their presence to his mistress distress in her mind that the lama have neglect her so long. 
now do i remember the lama speak a though it be a wholly new proposition. she be virtuous but an inordinate talker. 
kim be sit on the edge of a cow s manger tell story to a village smith s child. 
she will only ask for another son for her daughter. i have not forget her he say. let her acquire merit. send word that we will come. 
they cover eleven mile through the field in two day and be overwhelm with attention at the end. for the old lady hold a fine tradition of hospitality to which she force her son in law who be under the thumb of his woman folk and buy peace by borrow of the money lender. age have not weaken her tongue or her memory and from a discreetly bar upper window in the hear of not le than a dozen servant she pay kim compliment that would have fling european audience into unclean dismay. 
but thou art still the shameless beggar brat of the parao she shrill. i have not forget thee. wash ye and eat. the father of my daughter s son be go away awhile. so we poor woman be dumb and useless. 
for proof she harangue the entire household unsparingly till food and drink be bring. and in the even the smoke scent even copper dun and turquoise across the field it please her to order her palanquin to be set down in the untidy forecourt by smoky torchlight. and there behind not too closely draw curtain she gossip. 
have the holy one come alone i should have receive him otherwise. but with this rogue who can be too careful. 
maharanee say kim choose a always the ample title be it my fault that none other than a sahib a polis sahib call the maharanee whose face he chutt. that be on the pilgrimage. when we travel thou knowest the proverb. 
call the maharanee a breaker of heart and a dispenser of delight. 
to remember that. it be true. so he do. that be in the time of the bloom of my beauty. she chuckle like a content parrot above the sugar lump. now tell me of thy going and coming a much a may be without shame. how many maid and whose wife hang upon thine eyelash. ye hail from benares. i would have go there again this year but my daughter we have only two son. phaii. such be the effect of these low plain. now in kulu men be elephant. but i would ask thy holy one stand aside rogue a charm against most lamentable windy colic that in mango time overtake my daughter s eldest. two year back he give me a powerful spell. 
oh holy one. say kim bubble with mirth at the lama s rueful face. 
it be true. i give her one against wind. 
teeth teeth teeth snap the old woman. 
cure them if they be sick kim quote relishingly but by no mean work charm. remember what befall the mahratta. 
that be two rain ago. she weary me with her continual importunity. the lama groan a the unjust judge have groan before him. thus it come take note my chela that even those who would follow the way be thrust aside by idle woman. three day through when the child be sick she talk to me. 
arre. and to whom else should i talk. the boy s mother know nothing and the father in the night of the cold weather it be pray to the god say he forsooth and turn over snore. 
i give her the charm. what be an old man to do. 
to abstain from action be well except to acquire merit. 
ah chela if thou desertest me i be all alone. 
he find his milk teeth easily at any rate say the old lady. but all priest be alike. 
kim cough severely. be young he do not approve of her flippancy. to importune the wise out of season be to invite calamity. 
there be a talk mynah the thrust come back with the well remember snap of the jewel fore finger over the stable which ha pick up the very tone of the family priest. maybe i forget honour to my guest but if ye have see him double his fist into his belly which be like a half grow gourd and cry. here be the pain. ye would forgive. i be half mind to take the hakim s medicine. he sell it cheap and certainly it make him fat a shiv s own bull. he doe not deny remedy but i doubt for the child because of the in auspicious colour of the bottle. 
the lama under cover of the monologue have fade out into the darkness towards the room prepare. 
thou hast anger him belike say kim. 
not he. he be weary and i forget be a grandmother. none but a grandmother should ever oversee a child. mother be only fit for bear. tomorrow when he see how my daughter s son be grow he will write the charm. then too he can judge of the new hakim s drug. 
who be the hakim maharanee. 
a wanderer a thou art but a most sober bengali from dacca a master of medicine. he relieve me of an oppression after meat by mean of a small pill that work like a devil unchain. he travel about now vend preparation of great value. he ha even paper print in angrezi tell what thing he ha do for weak back men and slack woman. he ha be here four day. but hear ye be come. hakim and priest be snake and tiger the world over. he ha a i take it go to cover. 
while she draw breath after this volley the ancient servant sit unrebuked on the edge of the torchlight mutter. this house be a cattle pound a it be for all charlatan and priest. let the boy stop eat mango. but who can argue with a grandmother. he raise his voice respectfully. sahiba the hakim sleep after his meat. he be in the quarter behind the dovecote. 
kim bristle like an expectant terrier. to outface and down talk a calcutta teach bengali a voluble dacca drug vendor would be a good game. it be not seemly that the lama and incidentally himself should be throw aside for such an one. he know those curious bastard english advertisement at the back of native newspaper. st xavier s boy sometimes bring them in by stealth to snigger over among their mate. for the language of the grateful patient recount his symptom be most simple and reveal. the oorya not unanxious to play off one parasite against the other slink away towards the dovecote. 
yes say kim with measure scorn. their stock in trade be a little colour water and a very great shamelessness. their prey be break down king and overfed bengali. their profit be in child who be not bear. the old lady chuckle. do not be envious. charm be good eh. i never gainsay it. see that thy holy one write me a good amulet by the morning. 
none but the ignorant deny a thick heavy voice boom through the darkness a a figure come to rest squat none but the ignorant deny the value of charm. none but the ignorant deny the value of medicine. 
a rat find a piece of turmeric. say he. i will open a grocer s shop kim retort. 
battle be fairly join now and they hear the old lady stiffen to attention. 
the priest s son know the name of his nurse and three god. say he. hear me or i will curse you by the three million great one. decidedly this invisible have an arrow or two in his quiver. he go on. i be but a teacher of the alphabet. i have learn all the wisdom of the sahib. 
the sahib never grow old. they dance and they play like child when they be grandfather. a strong back breed pip the voice inside the palanquin. 
i have too our drug which loosen humour of the head in hot and angry men. sina well compound when the moon stand in the proper house. yellow earth i have arplan from china that make a man renew his youth and astonish his household. saffron from kashmir and the best salep of kabul. many people have die before. 
that i surely believe say kim. 
they know the value of my drug. i do not give my sick the mere ink in which a charm be write but hot and rend drug which descend and wrestle with the evil. 
very mightily they do so sigh the old lady. 
the voice launch into an immense tale of misfortune and bankruptcy stud with plentiful petition to the government. but for my fate which overrule all i have be now in government employ. i bear a degree from the great school at calcutta whither maybe the son of this house shall go. 
he shall indeed. if our neighbour s brat can in a few year be make an f a. first art she use the english word of which she have hear so often. how much more shall child clever a some that i know bear away prize at rich calcutta. 
never say the voice have i see such a child. bear in an auspicious hour and but for that colic which ala. turn into black choler may carry him off like a pigeon destine to many year he be enviable. 
hai mai. say the old lady. to praise child be inauspicious or i could listen to this talk. but the back of the house be unguarded and even in this soft air men think themselves to be men and woman we know. the child s father be away too and i must be chowkedar [watchman] in my old age. up. up. take up the palanquin. let the hakim and the young priest settle between them whether charm or medicine most avail. ho. worthless people fetch tobacco for the guest and round the homestead go i. 
the palanquin reel off follow by straggle torch and a horde of dog. twenty village know the sahiba her failing her tongue and her large charity. twenty village cheat her after immemorial custom but no man would have steal or rob within her jurisdiction for any gift under heaven. none the le she make great parade of her formal inspection the riot of which could be hear half way to mussoorie. 
kim relax a one augur must when he meet another. the hakim still squat slide over his hookah with a friendly foot and kim pull at the good weed. the hanger on expect grave professional debate and perhaps a little free doctor. 
to discus medicine before the ignorant be of one piece with teach the peacock to sing say the hakim. 
true courtesy kim echo be very often inattention. 
these be it understand be company manner design to impress. 
hi. i have an ulcer on my leg cry a scullion. look at it. 
get hence. remove. say the hakim. be it the habit of the place to pester honour guest. ye crowd in like buffalo. 
if the sahiba know kim begin. 
ai. ai. come away. they be meat for our mistress. when her young shaitan s colic be cure perhaps we poor people may be suffer to. 
the mistress feed thy wife when thou wast in jail for break the money lender s head. who speak against her. the old servitor curl his white moustache savagely in the young moonlight. i be responsible for the honour of this house. go. and he drive the underling before him. 
say the hakim hardly more than shape the word with his lip. how do you do mister o hara. i be jolly glad to see you again. 
kim s hand clench about the pipe stem. anywhere on the open road perhaps he would not have be astonish. but here in this quiet backwater of life he be not prepare for hurree babu. it annoy him too that he have be hoodwink. 
ah ha. i tell you at lucknow resurgam i shall rise again and you shall not know me. how much do you bet eh. 
he chew leisurely upon a few cardamom seed but he breathe uneasily. 
but why come here babuji. 
ah. thatt be the question a shakespeare hath it. i come to congratulate you on your extraordinary effeecient performance at delhi. oah. i tell you we be all proud of you. it be verree neat and handy. our mutual friend he be old friend of mine. he ha be in some dam tight place. now he will be in some more. he tell me. i tell mr lurgan. and he be please you graduate so nicely. all the department be please. 
for the first time in his life kim thrill to the clean pride. it can be a deadly pitfall none the le. of departmental praise ensnare praise from an equal of work appreciate by fellow worker. earth ha nothing on the same plane to compare with it. but cry the oriental in him babu do not travel far to retail compliment. 
tell thy tale babu he say authoritatively. 
oah it be nothing. onlee i be at simla when the wire come in about what our mutual friend say he have hide and old creighton he look to see how kim would take this piece of audacity. 
the colonel sahib the boy from st xavier s correct. of course. he find me at a loose string and i have to go down to chitor to find that beastly letter. i do not like the south too much railway travel. but i draw good travel allowance. ha. ha. i meet our mutual at delhi on the way back. he lie quiett just now and say saddhu disguise suit him to the grind. well there i hear what you have do so well so quickly upon the instantaneous spur of the moment. i tell our mutual you take the bally bun by jove. it be splendid. i come to tell you so. 
umm. 
the frog be busy in the ditch and the moon slide to her set. some happy servant have go out to commune with the night and to beat upon a drum. kim s next sentence be in the vernacular. 
how didst thou follow u. 
oah. thatt be nothing. i know from our mutual friend you go to saharunpore. so i come on. red lama be not inconspicuous person. i buy myself my drug box and i be very good doctor really. i go to akrola of the ford and hear all about you and i talk here and talk there. all the common people know what you do. i know when the hospitable old lady send the dooli. they have great recollection of the old lama s visit here. i know old lady cannot keep their hand from medicine. so i be a doctor and you hear my talk. i think it be verree good. my word mister o hara they know about you and the lama for fifty mile the common people. so i come. do you mind. 
babuji say kim look up at the broad grin face i be a sahib. 
my dear mister o hara. 
and i hope to play the great game. 
you be subordinate to me departmentally at present. 
then why talk like an ape in a tree. men do not come after one from simla and change their dress for the sake of a few sweet word. i be not a child. talk hindi and let u get to the yolk of the egg. thou art here speak not one word of truth in ten. why art thou here. give a straight answer. 
that be so verree disconcert of the european mister o hara. you should know a heap good at your time of life. 
but i want to know say kim laugh. if it be the game i may help. how can i do anything if you bukh [babble] all round the shop. 
hurree babu reach for the pipe and suck it till it gurgle again. 
now i will speak vernacular. you sit tight mister o hara. it concern the pedigree of a white stallion. 
still. that be finish long ago. 
when everyone be dead the great game be finish. not before. listen to me till the end. there be five king who prepare a sudden war three year ago when thou wast give the stallion s pedigree by mahbub ali. upon them because of that news and ere they be ready fell our army. 
ay eight thousand men with gun. i remember that night. 
but the war be not push. that be the government custom. the troop be recall because the government believe the five king be cow. and it be not cheap to fee men among the high pass. hilas and bunar rajah with gun undertake for a price to guard the pass against all come from the north. they protest both fear and friendship. he break off with a giggle into english. of course i tell you this unoffeecially to elucidate political situation mister o hara. offeecially i be debar from criticize any action of superior. now i go on. this please the government anxious to avoid expense and a bond be make for so many rupee a month that hilas and bunar should guard the pass a soon a the state s troop be withdraw. at that time it be after we two meet i who have be sell tea in leh become a clerk of account in the army. when the troop be withdraw i be leave behind to pay the cooly who make new road in the hill. this road make be part of the bond between bunar hilas and the government. 
so. and then. 
i tell you it be jolly beastly cold up there too after summer say hurree babu confidentially. i be afraid these bunar men would cut my throat every night for thee pay chest. my native sepoy guard they laugh at me. by jove. i be such a fearful man. nevar mind thatt. i go on colloquially. i send word many time that these two king be sell to the north. and mahbub ali who be yet farther north amply confirm it. nothing be do. only my foot be freeze and a toe drop off. i send word that the road for which i be pay money to the digger be be make for the foot of stranger and enemy. 
for. 
for the russian. the thing be an open jest among the cooly. then i be call down to tell what i know by speech of tongue. mahbub come south too. see the end. over the pass this year after snow melt he shiver afresh come two stranger under cover of shoot wild goat. they bear gun but they bear also chain and level and compass. 
oho. the thing get clear. 
they be well receive by hilas and bunar. they make great promise. they speak a the mouthpiece of a kaisar with gift. up the valley down the valley go they say here be a place to build a breastwork. here can ye pitch a fort. here can ye hold the road against an army the very road for which i pay out the rupee monthly. the government know but doe nothing. the three other king who be not pay for guard the pass tell them by runner of the bad faith of bunar and hilas. when all the evil be do look you when these two stranger with the level and the compass make the five king to believe that a great army will sweep the pass tomorrow or the next day hill people be all fool come the order to me hurree babu go north and see what those stranger do. i say to creighton sahib this be not a lawsuit that we go about to collect evidence. hurree return to his english with a jerk. by jove i say why the dooce do you not issue demi offeecial order to some brave man to poison them for an example. it be if you permit the observation most reprehensible laxity on your part. and colonel creighton he laugh at me. it be all your beastly english pride. you think no one dare conspire. that be all tommy rott. 
kim smoke slowly revolve the business so far a he understand it in his quick mind. 
then thou go forth to follow the stranger. 
no. to meet them. they be come in to simla to send down their horn and head to be dress at calcutta. they be exclusively sport gentleman and they be allow special faceelities by the government. of course we always do that. it be our british pride. 
then what be to fear from them. 
by jove they be not black people. i can do all sort of thing with black people of course. they be russian and highly unscrupulous people. i i do not want to consort with them without a witness. 
will they kill thee. 
oah thatt be nothing. i be good enough herbert spencerian i trust to meet little thing like death which be all in my fate you know. but but they may beat me. 
why. 
hurree babu snap his finger with irritation. of course i shall affeeliate myself to their camp in supernumerary capacity a perhaps interpreter or person mentally impotent and hungree or some such thing. and then i must pick up what i can i suppose. that be a easy for me a play mister doctor to the old lady. onlee onlee you see mister o hara i be unfortunately asiatic which be serious detriment in some respect. and all so i be bengali a fearful man. 
god make the hare and the bengali. what shame. say kim quote the proverb. 
it be process of evolution i think from primal necessity but the fact remain in all the cui bono. i be oh awfully fearful. i remember once they want to cut off my head on the road to lhassa. no i have never reach to lhassa. i sit down and cry mister o hara anticipate chinese torture. i do not suppose these two gentleman will torture me but i like to provide for possible contingency with european assistance in emergency. he cough and spat out the cardamom. it be purely unoffeecial indent to which you can say no babu. if you have no press engagement with your old man perhaps you might divert him. perhaps i can seduce his fancy i should like you to keep in departmental touch with me till i find those sport cove. i have great opeenion of you since i meet my friend at delhi. and also i will embody your name in my offeecial report when matter be finally adjudicate. it will be a great feather in your cap. that be why i come really. 
humph. the end of the tale i think be true. but what of the fore part. 
about the five king. oah. there be ever so much truth in it. a lot more than you would suppose say hurree earnestly. you come eh. i go from here straight into the doon. it be verree verdant and paint mead. i shall go to mussoorie to good old munsoorie pahar a the gentleman and lady say. then by rampur into chini. that be the only way they can come. i do not like wait in the cold but we must wait for them. i want to walk with them to simla. you see one russian be a frenchman and i know my french pretty well. i have friend in chandernagore. 
he would certainly rejoice to see the hill again say kim meditatively. all his speech these ten day past ha be of little else. if we go together. 
oah. we can be quite stranger on the road if your lama prefer. i shall just be four or five mile ahead. there be no hurry for hurree that be an europe pun ha. ha. and you come after. there be plenty of time. they will plot and survey and map of course. i shall go tomorrow and you the next day if you choose. eh. you go think on it till morning. by jove it be near morning now. he yawn ponderously and with never a civil word lumber off to his sleep place. but kim sleep little and his thought run in hindustani. 
well be the game call great. i be four day a scullion at quetta wait on the wife of the man whose book i steal. and that be part of the great game. from the south god know how far come up the mahratta play the great game in fear of his life. now i shall go far and far into the north play the great game. truly it run like a shuttle throughout all hind. and my share and my joy he smile to the darkness i owe to the lama here. also to mahbub ali also to creighton sahib but chiefly to the holy one. he be right a great and a wonderful world and i be kim kim kim alone one person in the middle of it all. but i will see these stranger with their level and chain. 
what be the upshot of last night s babble. say the lama after his orison. 
there come a stroll seller of drug a hanger on of the sahiba s. him i abolish by argument and prayer prove that our charm be worthy than his colour water. 
ala my charm. be the virtuous woman still bend upon a new one. 
very strictly. 
then it must be write or she will deafen me with her clamour. he fumble at his pencase. 
in the plain say kim be always too many people. in the hill a i understand there be few. 
oh. the hill and the snow upon the hill. the lami tear off a tiny square of paper fit to go in an amulet. but what dost thou know of the hill. 
they be very close. kim thrust open the door and look at the long peaceful line of the himalaya flush in morning gold. except in the dress of a sahib i have never set foot among them. 
the lama snuff the wind wistfully. 
if we go north kim put the question to the wake sunrise would not much mid day heat be avoid by walk among the low hill at least. be the charm make holy one. 
i have write the name of seven silly devil not one of whom be worth a grain of dust in the eye. thus do foolish woman drag u from the way. 
hurree babu come out from behind the dovecote wash his teeth with ostentatious ritual. full flesh heavy haunched bull neck and deep voice he do not look like a fearful man. kim sign almost imperceptibly that matter be in good train and when the morning toilet be over hurree babu in flowery speech come to do honour to the lama. they eat of course apart and afterwards the old lady more or le veil behind a window return to the vital business of green mango colic in the young. the lama s knowledge of medicine be of course sympathetic only. he believe that the dung of a black horse mix with sulphur and carry in a snake skin be a sound remedy for cholera. but the symbolism interest him far more than the science. hurree babu defer to these view with enchant politeness so that the lama call him a courteous physician. hurree babu reply that he be no more than an inexpert dabbler in the mystery. but at least he thank the god therefore he know when he sit in the presence of a master. he himself have be teach by the sahib who do not consider expense in the lordly hall of calcutta. but a he be ever first to acknowledge there lay a wisdom behind earthly wisdom the high and lonely lore of meditation. kim look on with envy. the hurree babu of his knowledge oily effusive and nervous be go. go too be the brazen drug vendor of overnight. there remain polish polite attentive a sober learn son of experience and adversity gather wisdom from the lama s lip. the old lady confide to kim that these rare level be beyond her. she like charm with plenty of ink that one could wash off in water swallow and be do with. else what be the use of the god. she like men and woman and she speak of them of kinglet she have know in the past. of her own youth and beauty. of the depredation of leopard and the eccentricity of love asiatic. of the incidence of taxation rack rent funeral ceremony her son in law. this by allusion easy to be follow. the care of the young and the age s lack of decency. and kim a interest in the life of this world a she soon to leave it squat with his foot under the hem of his robe drink all in while the lama demolish one after another every theory of body cure put forward by hurree babu. 
at noon the babu strap up his brass bind drug box take his patent leather shoe of ceremony in one hand a gay blue and white umbrella in the other and set off northward to the doon where he say he be in demand among the less king of those part. 
we will go in the cool of the even chela say the lama. that doctor learn in physic and courtesy affirm that the people among these low hill be devout generous and much in need of a teacher. in a very short time so say the hakim we come to cool air and the smell of pine. 
ye go to the hill. and by kulu road. oh thrice happy. shrill the old lady. but that i be a little press with the care of the homestead i would take palanquin. but that would be shameless and my reputation would be crack. ho. ho. i know the road every march of the road i know. ye will find charity throughout it be not deny to the well look. i will give order for provision. a servant to set you forth upon your journey. no. then i will at least cook ye good food. 
what a woman be the sahiba. say the white beard oorya when a tumult rise by the kitchen quarter. she ha never forget a friend. she ha never forget an enemy in all her year. and her cookery wah. he rub his slim stomach. 
there be cake there be sweetmeat there be cold fowl stew to rag with rice and prune enough to burden kim like a mule. 
i be old and useless she say. none now love me and none respect but there be few to compare with me when i call on the god and squat to my cook pot. come again o people of good will. holy one and disciple come again. the room be always prepare. the welcome be always ready. see the woman do not follow thy chela too openly. i know the woman of kulu. take heed chela l he run away when he smell his hill again. hai. do not tilt the rice bag upside down. bless the household holy one and forgive thy servant her stupidity. 
she wipe her red old eye on a corner of her veil and cluck throatily. 
woman talk say the lama at last but that be a woman s infirmity. i give her a charm. she be upon the wheel and wholly give over to the show of this life but none the le chela she be virtuous kindly hospitable of a whole and zealous heart. who shall say she doe not acquire merit. 
not i holy one say kim reslinging the bountiful provision on his shoulder. in my mind behind my eye i have try to picture such an one altogether free from the wheel desire nothing cause nothing a nun a it be. 
and o imp. the lama almost laugh aloud. 
i cannot make the picture. 
nor i. but there be many many million of life before her. she will get wisdom a little it may be in each one. 
and will she forget how to make stew with saffron upon that road. 
thy mind be set on thing unworthy. but she ha skill. i be refresh all over. when we reach the low hill i shall be yet strong. the hakim speak truly to me this morn when he say a breath from the snow blow away twenty year from the life of a man. we will go up into the hill the high hill up to the sound of snow water and the sound of the tree for a little while. the hakim say that at any time we may return to the plain for we do no more than skirt the pleasant place. the hakim be full of learn. but he be in no way proud. i speak to him when thou wast talk to the sahiba of a certain dizziness that lay hold upon the back of my neck in the night and he say it rise from excessive heat to be cure by cool air. upon consideration i marvel that i have not think of such a simple remedy. 
didst thou tell him of thy search. say kim a little jealously. he prefer to sway the lama by his own speech not through the wile of hurree babu. 
assuredly. i tell him of my dream and of the manner by which i have acquire merit by cause thee to be teach wisdom. 
thou didst not say i be a sahib. 
what need. i have tell thee many time we be but two soul seek escape. he say and he be just herein that the river of heal will break forth even a i dream at my foot if need be. have find the way seest thou that shall free me from the wheel need i trouble to find a way about the mere field of earth which be illusion. that be senseless. i have my dream night upon night repeat. i have jataka. and i have thee friend of all the world. it be write in thy horoscope that a red bull on a green field i have not forget should bring thee to honour. who but i saw that prophecy accomplish. indeed i be the instrument. thou shalt find me my river be in return the instrument. the search be sure. 
he set his ivory yellow face serene and untroubled towards the beckon hill. his shadow shoulder far before him in the dust. 
chapter. 
who hath desire the sea the immense and contemptuous surge. the shudder the stumble the swerve ere the star stab bowsprit merge the orderly cloud of the trade and the ridge roar sapphire thereunder unheralded cliff lurk flaw and the head sail low volley thunder. his sea in no wonder the same his sea and the same in each wonder his sea that his be fulfil. so and no otherwise so and no otherwise hill men desire their hill. 
the sea and the hill. 
who go to the hill go to his mother. 
they have cross the siwaliks and the half tropical doon leave mussoorie behind them and head north along the narrow hill road. day after day they strike deep into the huddle mountain and day after day kim watch the lama return to a man s strength. among the terrace of the doon he have lean on the boy s shoulder ready to profit by wayside halt. under the great ramp to mussoorie he draw himself together a an old hunter face a well remember bank and where he should have sink exhaust swing his long drapery about him draw a deep double lungful of the diamond air and walk a only a hillman can. kim plain breed and plain feed sweat and pant astonish. this be my country say the lama. beside such zen this be flat than a rice field. and with steady drive stroke from the loin he stride upwards. but it be on the steep downhill march three thousand foot in three hour that he go utterly away from kim whose back ache with hold back and whose big toe be nigh cut off by his grass sandal string. through the speckle shadow of the great deodar forest. through oak feather and plume with fern. birch ilex rhododendron and pine out on to the bare hillside slippery sunburnt grass and back into the woodland coolth again till oak give way to bamboo and palm of the valley the lama swing untiring. 
glance back in the twilight at the huge ridge behind him and the faint thin line of the road whereby they have come he would lay out with a hillman s generous breadth of vision fresh march for the morrow. or halt in the neck of some uplift pas that give on spiti and kulu would stretch out his hand yearningly towards the high snow of the horizon. in the dawn they flare windy red above stark blue a kedarnath and badrinath king of that wilderness take the first sunlight. all day long they lay like melt silver under the sun and at even put on their jewel again. at first they breathe temperately upon the traveller wind good to meet when one crawl over some gigantic hog s back. but in a few day at a height of nine or ten thousand foot those breeze bite. and kim kindly allow a village of hillmen to acquire merit by give him a rough blanket coat. the lama be mildly surprise that anyone should object to the knife edge breeze which have cut the year off his shoulder. 
these be but the low hill chela. there be no cold till we come to the true hill. 
air and water be good and the people be devout enough but the food be very bad kim growl. and we walk a though we be mad or english. it freeze at night too. 
a little maybe. but only enough to make old bone rejoice in the sun. we must not always delight in soft bed and rich food. 
we might at least keep to the road. 
kim have all a plainsman s affection for the well tread track not six foot wide that snake among the mountain. but the lama be tibetan could not refrain from short cut over spur and the rim of gravel strew slope. a he explain to his limp disciple a man breed among mountain can prophesy the course of a mountain road and though low lie cloud might be a hindrance to a short cut strange they make no earthly difference to a thoughtful man. thus after long hour of what would be reckon very fair mountaineer in civilize country they would pant over a saddle back sidle past a few landslip and drop through forest at an angle of forty five onto the road again. along their track lay the village of the hillfolk mud and earth hut timber now and then rudely carve with an axe cling like swallow nest against the steep huddle on tiny flat half way down a three thousand foot glissade. jam into a corner between cliff that funnel and focus every wander blast. or for the sake of summer pasture cower down on a neck that in winter would be ten foot deep in snow. and the people the sallow greasy duffle clothe people with short bare leg and face almost esquimaux would flock out and adore. the plain kindly and gentle have treat the lama a a holy man among holy men. but the hill worship him a one in the confidence of all their devil. theirs be an almost obliterate buddhism overlay with a nature worship fantastic a their own landscape elaborate a the terrace of their tiny field. but they recognize the big hat the click rosary and the rare chinese text for great authority. and they respect the man beneath the hat. 
we saw thee come down over the black breast of eua say a betah who give them cheese sour milk and stone hard bread one even. we do not use that often except when calve cow stray in summer. there be a sudden wind among those stone that cast men down on the still day. but what should such folk care for the devil of eua. 
then do kim ache in every fibre dizzy with look down footsore with cramp desperate toe into inadequate cranny take joy in the day s march such joy a a boy of st xavier s who have win the quarter mile on the flat might take in the praise of his friend. the hill sweat the ghi and sugar suet off his bone. the dry air take sobbingly at the head of cruel pass firm and build out his upper rib. and the tilt level put new hard muscle into calf and thigh. 
they meditate often on the wheel of life the more so since a the lama say they be free from it visible temptation. except the grey eagle and an occasional far see bear grub and root on the hillside. a vision of a furious paint leopard meet at dawn in a still valley devour a goat. and now and again a bright colour bird they be alone with the wind and the grass sing under the wind. the woman of the smoky hut over whose roof the two walk a they descend the mountain be unlovely and unclean wife of many husband and afflict with goitre. the men be woodcutter when they be not farmer meek and of an incredible simplicity. but that suitable discourse might not fail fate send them overtake and overtake upon the road the courteous dacca physician who pay for his food in ointment good for goitre and counsel that restore peace between men and woman. he seem to know these hill a well a he know the hill dialect and give the lama the lie of the land towards ladakh and tibet. he say they could return to the plain at any moment. meantime for such a love mountain yonder road might amuse. this be not all reveal in a breath but at even encounter on the stone thresh floor when patient dispose of the doctor would smoke and the lama snuff while kim watch the wee cow graze on the housetop or throw his soul after his eye across the deep blue gulf between range and range. and there be talk apart in the dark wood when the doctor would seek herb and kim a bud physician must accompany him. 
you see mister o hara i do not know what the deuce an all i shall do when i find our sport friend. but if you will kindly keep within sight of my umbrella which be fine fix point for cadastral survey i shall feel much good. 
kim look out across the jungle of peak. this be not my country hakim. easy i think to find one louse in a bear skin. 
oah thatt be my strong point. there be no hurry for hurree. they be at leh not so long ago. they say they have come down from the karakorum with their head and horn and all. i be onlee afraid they will have send back all their letter and compromise thing from leh into russian territoree. of course they will walk away a far to the east a possible just to show that they be never among the western state. you do not know the hill. he scratch with a twig on the earth. look. they should have come in by srinagar or abbottabad. thatt be their short road down the river by bunji and astor. but they have make mischief in the west. so he draw a furrow from leave to right they march and they march away east to leh. ah. it be cold there. and down the indus to hanle. i know that road. and then down you see to bushahr and chini valley. that be ascertain by process of elimination and also by ask question from people that i cure so well. our friend have be a long time play about and produce impression. so they be well know from far off. you will see me catch them somewhere in chini valley. please keep your eye on the umbrella. 
it nod like a wind blow harebell down the valley and round the mountain side and in due time the lama and kim who steer by compass would overhaul it vend ointment and powder at eventide. we come by such and such a way. the lama would throw a careless finger backward at the ridge and the umbrella would expend itself in compliment. 
they cross a snowy pas in cold moonlight when the lama mildly chaff kim go through up to his knee like a bactrian camel the snow breed shag haired sort that come into the kashmir serai. they dip across bed of light snow and snow powder shale where they take refuge from a gale in a camp of tibetan hurry down tiny sheep each lade with a bag of borax. they come out upon grassy shoulder still snow speckle and through forest to grass anew. for all their marching kedarnath and badrinath be not impress. and it be only after day of travel that kim uplift upon some insignificant ten thousand foot hummock could see that a shoulder knot or horn of the two great lord have ever so slightly change outline. 
at last they enter a world within a world a valley of league where the high hill be fashion of a mere rubble and refuse from off the knee of the mountain. here one day s march carry them no farther it seem than a dreamer s clog pace bear him in a nightmare. they skirt a shoulder painfully for hour and behold it be but an outlying bos in an outlying buttress of the main pile. a round meadow reveal itself when they have reach it for a vast tableland run far into the valley. three day late it be a dim fold in the earth to southward. 
surely the god live here. say kim beat down by the silence and the appal sweep and dispersal of the cloud shadow after rain. this be no place for men. 
long and long ago say the lama a to himself it be ask of the lord whether the world be everlasting. on this the excellent one return no answer. when i be in ceylon a wise seeker confirm that from the gospel which be write in pali. certainly since we know the way to freedom the question be unprofitable but look and know illusion chela. these be the true hill. they be like my hill by suchzen. never be such hill. 
above them still enormously above them earth tower away towards the snow line where from east to west across hundred of mile rule a with a ruler the last of the bold birch stop. above that in scarp and block upheave the rock strive to fight their head above the white smother. above these again changeless since the world s begin but change to every mood of sun and cloud lay out the eternal snow. they could see blot and blur on it face where storm and wander wullie wa get up to dance. below them a they stand the forest slide away in a sheet of blue green for mile upon mile. below the forest be a village in it sprinkle of terrace field and steep graze ground. below the village they know though a thunderstorm worry and growl there for the moment a pitch of twelve or fifteen hundred foot give to the moist valley where the stream gather that be the mother of young sutluj. 
a usual the lama have lead kim by cow track and by road far from the main route along which hurree babu that fearful man have bucket three day before through a storm to which nine englishman out of ten would have give full right of way. hurree be no game shoot the snick of a trigger make him change colour but a he himself would have say he be fairly effeecient stalker and he have rake the huge valley with a pair of cheap binoculars to some purpose. moreover the white of wear canvas tent against green carry far. hurree babu have see all he want to see when he sit on the thresh floor of ziglaur twenty mile away a the eagle fly and forty by road that be to say two small dot which one day be just below the snow line and the next have move downward perhaps six inch on the hillside. once clean out and set to the work his fat bare leg could cover a surprise amount of grind and this be the reason why while kim and the lama lay in a leaky hut at ziglaur till the storm should be over past an oily wet but always smile bengali talk the best of english with the vile of phrase be ingratiate himself with two sodden and rather rheumatic foreigner. he have arrive revolve many wild scheme on the heel of a thunderstorm which have split a pine over against their camp and so convince a dozen or two forcibly impress baggage cooly the day be inauspicious for farther travel that with one accord they have throw down their load and jib. they be subject of a hill rajah who farm out their service a be the custom for his private gain. and to add to their personal distress the strange sahib have already threaten them with rifle. the most of them know rifle and sahib of old. they be tracker and shikarris of the northern valley keen after bear and wild goat. but they have never be thus treat in their life. so the forest take them to her bosom and for all oath and clamour refuse to restore. there be no need to feign madness or the babu have think of another mean of secure a welcome. he wring out his wet clothe slip on his patent leather shoe open the blue and white umbrella and with mince gait and a heart beat against his tonsil appear a agent for his royal highness the rajah of rampur gentleman. what can i do for you please. 
the gentleman be delight. one be visibly french the other russian but they speak english not much inferior to the babu s. they beg his kind office. their native servant have go sick at leh. they have hurry on because they be anxious to bring the spoil of the chase to simla ere the skin grow moth eat. they bore a general letter of introduction. the babu salaam to it orientally. to all government official. no they have not meet any other shoot party en route. they do for themselves. they have plenty of supply. they only wish to push on a soon a might be. at this he waylay a cower hillman among the tree and after three minute talk and a little silver. one cannot be economical upon state service though hurree s heart bleed at the waste. the eleven cooly and the three hanger on reappear. at least the babu would be a witness to their oppression. 
my royal master he will be much annoy but these people be onlee common people and grossly ignorant. if your honour will kindly overlook unfortunate affair i shall be much please. in a little while rain will stop and we can then proceed. you have be shoot eh. that be fine performance. 
he skip nimbly from one kilta to the next make pretence to adjust each conical basket. the englishman be not a a rule familiar with the asiatic but he would not strike across the wrist a kindly babu who have accidentally upset a kilta with a red oilskin top. on the other hand he would not press drink upon a babu be he never so friendly nor would he invite him to meat. the stranger do all these thing and ask many question about woman mostly to which hurree return gay and unstudied answer. they give him a glass of whitish fluid like to gin and then more. and in a little time his gravity depart from him. he become thickly treasonous and speak in term of sweep indecency of a government which have force upon him a white man s education and neglect to supply him with a white man s salary. he babble tale of oppression and wrong till the tear run down his cheek for the misery of his land. then he stagger off sing love song of low bengal and collapse upon a wet tree trunk. never be so unfortunate a product of english rule in india more unhappily thrust upon alien. 
they be all just of that pattern say one sportsman to the other in french. when we get into india proper thou wilt see. i should like to visit his rajah. one might speak the good word there. it be possible that he ha hear of u and wish to signify his good will. 
we have not time. we must get into simla a soon a may be his companion reply. for my own part i wish our report have be send back from hilas or even leh. 
the english post be good and safe. remember we be give all facility and name of god. they give them to u too. be it unbelievable stupidity. 
it be pride pride that deserve and will receive punishment. 
yes. to fight a fellow continental in our game be something. there be a risk attach but these people bah. it be too easy. 
pride all pride my friend. 
now what the deuce be good of chandernagore be so close to calcutta and all say hurree snore open mouth on the sodden moss if i cannot understand their french. they talk so particularly fast. it would have be much good to cut their beastly throat. 
when he present himself again he be rack with a headache penitent and volubly afraid that in his drunkenness he might have be indiscreet. he love the british government it be the source of all prosperity and honour and his master at rampur hold the very same opinion. upon this the men begin to deride him and to quote past word till step by step with deprecate smirk oily grin and leer of infinite cunning the poor babu be beat out of his defence and force to speak truth. when lurgan be tell the tale late he mourn aloud that he could not have be in the place of the stubborn inattentive cooly who with grass mat over their head and the raindrop puddle in their footprint wait on the weather. all the sahib of their acquaintance rough clothe men joyously return year after year to their choose gully have servant and cook and orderly very often hillmen. these sahib travel without any retinue. therefore they be poor sahib and ignorant. for no sahib in his sens would follow a bengali s advice. but the bengali appear from somewhere have give them money and could make shift with their dialect. use to comprehensive ill treatment from their own colour they suspect a trap somewhere and stand by to run if occasion offer. 
then through the new wash air steam with delicious earth smell the babu lead the way down the slope walk ahead of the cooly in pride. walk behind the foreigner in humility. his thought be many and various. the least of them would have interest his companion beyond word. but he be an agreeable guide ever keen to point out the beauty of his royal master s domain. he people the hill with anything thev have a mind to slay thar ibex or markhor and bear by elisha s allowance. he discourse of botany and ethnology with unimpeachable inaccuracy and his store of local legend he have be a trust agent of the state for fifteen year remember be inexhaustible. 
decidedly this fellow be an original say the tall of the two foreigner. he be like the nightmare of a viennese courier. 
he represent in little india in transition the monstrous hybridism of east and west the russian reply. it be we who can deal with oriental. 
he ha lose his own country and ha not acquire any other. but he ha a most complete hatred of his conqueror. listen. he confide to me last night say the other. 
under the strip umbrella hurree babu be strain ear and brain to follow the quick pour french and keep both eye on a kilta full of map and document an extra large one with a double red oil skin cover. he do not wish to steal anything. he only desire to know what to steal and incidentally how to get away when he have steal it. he thank all the god of hindustan and herbert spencer that there remain some valuable to steal. 
on the second day the road rise steeply to a grass spur above the forest. and it be here about sunset that they come across an age lama but they call him a bonze sit cross legged above a mysterious chart hold down by stone which he be explain to a young man evidently a neophyte of singular though unwashen beauty. the strip umbrella have be sight half a march away and kim have suggest a halt till it come up to them. 
ha. say hurree babu resourceful a pus in boot. that be eminent local holy man. probably subject of my royal master. 
what be he do. it be very curious. 
he be expound holy picture all hand work. 
the two men stand bareheaded in the wash of the afternoon sunlight low across the gold colour grass. the sullen cooly glad of the check halt and slide down their load. 
look. say the frenchman. it be like a picture for the birth of a religion the first teacher and the first disciple. be he a buddhist. 
of some debase kind the other answer. there be no true buddhist among the hill. but look at the fold of the drapery. look at his eye how insolent. why doe this make one feel that we be so young a people. the speaker strike passionately at a tall weed. we have nowhere leave our mark yet. nowhere. that do you understand be what disquiet me. he scowl at the placid face and the monumental calm of the pose. 
have patience. we shall make your mark together we and you young people. meantime draw his picture. 
the babu advance loftily. his back out of all keep with his deferential speech or his wink towards kim. 
holy one these be sahib. my medicine cure one of a flux and i go into simla to oversee his recovery. they wish to see thy picture. 
to heal the sick be always good. this be the wheel of life say the lama the same i show thee in the hut at ziglaur when the rain fell. 
and to hear thee expound it. 
the lama s eye light at the prospect of new listener. to expound the most excellent way be good. have they any knowledge of hindi such a have the keeper of image. 
a little maybe. 
hereat simply a a child engross with a new game the lama throw back his head and begin the full throated invocation of the doctor of divinity ere he open the full doctrine. the stranger lean on their alpenstock and listen. kim squat humbly watch the red sunlight on their face and the blend and part of their long shadow. they wear un english legging and curious gird in belt that remind him hazily of the picture in a book in st xavier s library the adventure of a young naturalist in mexico be it name. yes they look very like the wonderful m. sumichrast of that tale and very unlike the highly unscrupulous folk of hurree babu s imagine. the cooly earth colour and mute crouch reverently some twenty or thirty yard away and the babu the slack of his thin gear snap like a mark flag in the chill breeze stand by with an air of happy proprietorship. 
these be the men hurree whisper a the ritual go on and the two white follow the grass blade sweep from hell to heaven and back again. all their book be in the large kilta with the reddish top book and report and map and i have see a king s letter that either hilas or bunar ha write. they guard it most carefully. they have send nothing back from hilas or leh. that be sure. 
who be with them. 
only the beegar cooly. they have no servant. they be so close they cook their own food. 
but what be i to do. 
wait and see. only if any chance come to me thou wilt know where to seek for the paper. 
this be good in mahbub ali s hand than a bengali s say kim scornfully. 
there be more way of get to a sweetheart than butt down a wall. 
see here the hell appoint for avarice and greed. flank upon the one side by desire and on the other by weariness. the lama warm to his work and one of the stranger sketch him in the quick fade light. 
that be enough the man say at last brusquely. i cannot understand him but i want that picture. he be a good artist than i. ask him if he will sell it. 
he say no sar the babu reply. the lama of course would no more have part with his chart to a casual wayfarer than an archbishop would pawn the holy vessel of his cathedral. all tibet be full of cheap reproduction of the wheel. but the lama be an artist a well a a wealthy abbot in his own place. 
perhaps in three day or four or ten if i perceive that the sahib be a seeker and of good understand i may myself draw him another. but this be use for the initiation of a novice. tell him so hakim. 
he wish it now for money. 
the lama shake his head slowly and begin to fold up the wheel. the russian on his side saw no more than an unclean old man haggle over a dirty piece of paper. he draw out a handful of rupee and snatch half jestingly at the chart which tear in the lama s grip. a low murmur of horror go up from the cooly some of whom be spiti men and by their light good buddhist. the lama rise at the insult. his hand go to the heavy iron pencase that be the priest s weapon and the babu dance in agony. 
now you see you see why i want witness. they be highly unscrupulous people. oh sar. sar. you must not hit holyman. 
chela. he ha defile the write word. 
it be too late. before kim could ward him off the russian strike the old man full on the face. next instant he be roll over and over downhill with kim at his throat. the blow have wake every unknown irish devil in the boy s blood and the sudden fall of his enemy do the rest. the lama drop to his knee half stun. the cooly under their load flee up the hill a fast a plainsman run aross the level. they have see sacrilege unspeakable and it behove them to get away before the god and devil of the hill take vengeance. the frenchman run towards the lama fumble at his revolver with some notion of make him a hostage for his companion. a shower of cut stone hillmen be very straight shot drive him away and a coolie from ao chung snatch the lama into the stampede. all come about a swiftly a the sudden mountain darkness. 
they have take the baggage and all the gun yell the frenchman fire blindly into the twilight. 
all right sar. all right. don t shoot. i go to rescue and hurree pound down the slope cast himself bodily upon the delight and astonish kim who be bang his breathless foe s head against a boulder. 
go back to the cooly whisper the babu in his ear. they have the baggage. the paper be in the kilta with the red top but look through all. take their paper and specially the murasla [king s letter]. go. the other man come. 
kim tear uphill. a revolver bullet ring on a rock by his side and he cower partridge wise. 
if you shoot shout hurree they will descend and annihilate u. i have rescue the gentleman sar. this be particularly dangerous. 
by jove. kim be think hard in english. this be dam tight place but i think it be self defence. he felt in his bosom for mahbub s gift and uncertainly save for a few practice shot in the bikanir desert he have never use the little gun pull the trigger. 
what do i say sar. the babu seem to be in tear. come down here and assist to resuscitate. we be all up a tree i tell you. 
the shot cease. there be a sound of stumble foot and kim hurry upward through the gloom swear like a cat or a country breed. 
do they wind thee chela. call the lama above him. 
no. and thou. he dive into a clump of stunt fir. 
unhurt. come away. we go with these folk to shamlegh under the snow. 
but not before we have do justice a voice cry. i have get the sahib gun all four. let u go down. 
he strike the holy one we saw it. our cattle will be barren our wife will cease to bear. the snow will slide upon u a we go home. atop of all other oppression too. 
the little fir clump fill with clamour cooly panic stricken and in their terror capable of anything. the man from ao chung click the breech bolt of his gun impatiently and make a to go downhill. 
wait a little holy one. they cannot go far. wait till i return say he. 
it be this person who ha suffer wrong say the lama his hand over his brow. 
for that very reason be the reply. 
if this person overlook it your hand be clean. moreover ye acquire merit by obedience. 
wait and we will all go to shamlegh together the man insist. 
for a moment for just so long a it need to stuff a cartridge into a breech loader the lama hesitate. then he rise to his foot and lay a finger on the man s shoulder. 
hast thou hear. i say there shall be no kill i who be abbot of such zen. be it any lust of thine to be re bear a a rat or a snake under the eaves a worm in the belly of the most mean beast. be it thy wish to. 
the man from ao chung fell to his knee for the voice boom like a tibetan devil gong. 
ai. ai. cry the spiti men. do not curse u do not curse him. it be but his zeal holy one. put down the rifle fool. 
anger on anger. evil on evil. there will be no kill. let the priest beater go in bondage to their own act. just and sure be the wheel swerve not a hair. they will be bear many time in torment. his head droop and he lean heavily on kim s shoulder. 
i have come near to great evil chela he whisper in that dead hush under the pine. i be tempt to loose the bullet. and truly in tibet there would have be a heavy and a slow death for them. he strike me across the face. upon the flesh. he slide to the grind breathe heavily and kim could hear the over drive heart bump and check. 
have they hurt him to the death. say the ao chung man while the others stand mute. 
kim kneel over the body in deadly fear. nay he cry passionately this be only a weakness. then he remember that he be a white man with a white man s camp fitting at his service. open the kiltas. the sahib may have a medicine. 
oho. then i know it say the ao chung man with a laugh. not for five year be i yankling sahib s shikarri without know that medicine. i too have taste it. behold. 
he draw from his breast a bottle of cheap whisky such a be sell to explorer at leh and cleverly force a little between the lama s teeth. 
so i do when yankling sahib twist his foot beyond astor. aha. i have already look into their basket but we will make fair division at shamlegh. give him a little more. it be good medicine. feel. his heart go good now. lay his head down and rub a little on the chest. if he have wait quietly while i account for the sahib this would never have come. but perhaps the sahib may chase u here. then it would not be wrong to shoot them with their own gun heh. 
one be pay i think already say kim between his teeth. i kick him in the groin a we go downhill. would i have kill him. 
it be well to be brave when one doe not live in rampur say one whose hut lay within a few mile of the rajah s rickety palace. if we get a bad name among the sahib none will employ u a shikarris any more. 
oh but these be not angrezi sahib not merry mind men like fostum sahib or yankling sahib. they be foreigner they cannot speak angrezi a do sahib. 
here the lama cough and sit up grope for the rosary. 
there shall be no kill he murmur. just be the wheel. evil on evil. 
nay holy one. we be all here. the ao chung man timidly pat his foot. except by thy order no one shall be slay. rest awhile. we will make a little camp here and late a the moon rise we go to shamlegh under the snow. 
after a blow say a spiti man sententiously it be best to sleep. 
there be a it be a dizziness at the back of my neck and a pinch in it. let me lay my head on thy lap chela. i be an old man but not free from passion. we must think of the cause of thing. 
give him a blanket. we dare not light a fire l the sahib see. 
good get away to shamlegh. none will follow u to shamlegh. 
this be the nervous rampur man. 
i have be fostum sahib s shikarri and i be yankling sahib s shikarri. i should have be with yankling sahib now but for this curse beegar [the corvee]. let two men watch below with the gun l the sahib do more foolishness. i shall not leave this holy one. 
they sit down a little apart from the lama and after listen awhile pass round a water pipe whose receiver be an old day and martin black bottle. the glow of the red charcoal a it go from hand to hand light up the narrow blink eye the high chinese cheek bone and the bull throat that melt away into the dark duffle fold round the shoulder. they look like kobolds from some magic mine gnome of the hill in conclave. and while they talk the voice of the snow water round them diminish one by one a the night frost choke and clog the runnel. 
how he stand up against u. say a spiti man admire. i remember an old ibex out ladakh way that dupont sahib miss on a shoulder shoot seven season back stand up just like him. dupont sahib be a good shikarri. 
not a good a yankling sahib. the ao chung man take a pull at the whisky bottle and pass it over. now hear me unless any other man think he know more. 
the challenge be not take up. 
we go to shamlegh when the moon rise. there we will fairly divide the baggage between u. i be content with this new little rifle and all it cartridge. 
be the bear only bad on thy hold. say a mate suck at the pipe. 
no. but musk pod be worth six rupee apiece now and thy woman can have the canvas of the tent and some of the cook gear. we will do all that at shamlegh before dawn. then we all go our way remember that we have never see or take service with these sahib who may indeed say that we have steal their baggage. 
that be well for thee but what will our rajah say. 
who be to tell him. those sahib who cannot speak our talk or the babu who for his own end give u money. will he lead an army against u. what evidence will remain. that we do not need we shall throw on shamlegh midden where no man ha yet set foot. 
who be at shamlegh this summer. the place be only a graze centre of three or four hut. 
the woman of shamlegh. she ha no love for sahib a we know. the others can be please with little present. and here be enough for u all. he pat the fat side of the near basket. 
but but. 
i have say they be not true sahib. all their skin and head be buy in the bazar at leh. i know the mark. i show them to ye last march. 
true. they be all buy skin and head. some have even the moth in them. 
that be a shrewd argument and the ao chung man know his fellow. 
if the bad come to the bad i shall tell yankling sahib who be a man of a merry mind and he will laugh. we be not do any wrong to any sahib whom we know. they be priest beater. they frighten u. we flee. who know where we drop the baggage. do ye think yankling sahib will permit down country police to wander all over the hill disturb his game. it be a far cry from simla to chini and farther from shamlegh to shamlegh midden. 
so be it but i carry the big kilta. the basket with the red top that the sahib pack themselves every morning. 
thus it be prove say the shamlegh man adroitly that they be sahib of no account. who ever hear of fostum sahib or yankling sahib or even the little peel sahib that sit up of night to shoot serow i say who ever hear of these sahib come into the hill without a down country cook and a bearer and and all manner of well pay high hand and oppressive folk in their tail. how can they make trouble. what of the kilta. 
nothing but that it be full of the write word book and paper in which they write and strange instrument a of worship. 
shamlegh midden will take them all. 
true. but how if we insult the sahib god thereby. i do not like to handle the write word in that fashion. and their brass idol be beyond my comprehension. it be no plunder for simple hill folk. 
the old man still sleep. hst. we will ask his chela. the ao chung man refresh himself and swell with pride of leadership. 
we have here he whisper a kilta whose nature we do not know. 
but i do say kim cautiously. the lama draw breath in natural easy sleep and kim have be think of hurree s last word. a a player of the great game he be dispose just then to reverence the babu. it be a kilta with a red top full of very wonderful thing not to be handle by fool. 
i say it. i say it cry the bearer of that burden. thinkest thou it will betray u. 
not if it be give to me. i can draw out it magic. otherwise it will do great harm. 
a priest always take his share. whisky be demoralize the ao chung man. 
it be no matter to me. kim answer with the craft of his mother country. share it among you and see what come. 
not i. i be only jest. give the order. there be more than enough for u all. we go our way from shamlegh in the dawn. 
they arrange and re arrange their artless little plan for another hour while kim shiver with cold and pride. the humour of the situation tickle the irish and the oriental in his soul. here be the emissary of the dread power of the north very possibly a great in their own land a mahbub or colonel creighton suddenly smite helpless. one of them he privately know would be lame for a time. they have make promise to king. tonight they lay out somewhere below him chartless foodless tentless gunless except for hurree babu guideless. and this collapse of their great game. kim wonder to whom they would report it. this panicky bolt into the night have come about through no craft of hurree s or contrivance of kim s but simply beautifully and inevitably a the capture of mahbub s fakir friend by the zealous young policeman at umballa. 
they be there with nothing. and by jove it be cold. i be here with all their thing. oh they will be angry. i be sorry for hurree babu. 
kim might have save his pity for though at that moment the bengali suffer acutely in the flesh his soul be puff and lofty. a mile down the hill on the edge of the pine forest two half freeze men one powerfully sick at interval be vary mutual recrimination with the most poignant abuse of the babu who seem distraught with terror. they demand a plan of action. he explain that they be very lucky to be alive. that their cooly if not then stalk them have pass beyond recall. that the rajah his master be ninety mile away and so far from lend them money and a retinue for the simla journey would surely cast them into prison if he hear that they have hit a priest. he enlarge on this sin and it consequence till they bid him change the subject. their one hope say he be unostentatious flight from village to village till they reach civilization. and for the hundredth time dissolve in tear he demand of the high star why the sahib have beat holy man. 
ten step would have take hurree into the creak gloom utterly beyond their reach to the shelter and food of the near village where glib tongue doctor be scarce. but he prefer to endure cold belly pinch bad word and occasional blow in the company of his honour employer. crouch against a tree trunk he sniff dolefully. 
and have you think say the uninjured man hotly what sort of spectacle we shall present wander through these hill among these aborigine. 
hurree babu have think of little else for some hour but the remark be not to his address. 
we cannot wander. i can hardly walk groan kim s victim. 
perhaps the holy man will be merciful in love kindness sar otherwise. 
i promise myself a peculiar pleasure in empty my revolver into that young bonze when next we meet be the unchristian answer. 
revolver. vengeance. bonzes. hurree crouch low. the war be break out afresh. have you no consideration for our loss. the baggage. the baggage. he could hear the speaker literally dance on the grass. everything we bore. everything we have secure. our gain. eight month work. do you know what that mean. decidedly it be we who can deal with oriental. oh you have do well. 
they fell to it in several tongue and hurree smile. kim be with the kiltas and in the kiltas lay eight month of good diplomacy. there be no mean of communicate with the boy but he could be trust. for the rest hurree could so stage manage the journey through the hill that hilas bunar and four hundred mile of hill road should tell the tale for a generation. men who cannot control their own cooly be little respect in the hill and the hillman ha a very keen sense of humour. 
if i have do it myself think hurree it would not have be good. and by jove now i think of it of course i arrange it myself. how quick i have be. just when i run downhill i think it. thee outrage be accidental but onlee me could have work it ah for all it be dam well worth. consider the moral effect upon these ignorant people. no treaty no paper no write document at all and me to interpret for them. how i shall laugh with the colonel. i wish i have their paper also. but you cannot occupy two place in space simultaneously. thatt be axiomatic. 
chapter. 
my brother kneel. so saith kabir. to stone and brass in heathen wise but in my brother s voice i hear my own unanswered agony. his god be a his fate assign his prayer be all the world s and mine. 
the prayer. 
at moonrise the cautious cooly get under way. the lama refresh by his sleep and the spirit need no more than kim s shoulder to bear him along a silent swift stride man. they hold the shale sprinkle grass for an hour sweep round the shoulder of an immortal cliff and climb into a new country entirely block off from all sight of chini valley. a huge pasture grind run up fan shape to the live snow. at it base be perhaps half an acre of flat land on which stand a few soil and timber hut. behind them for hill fashion they be perch on the edge of all thing the grind fell sheer two thousand foot to shamlegh midden where never yet man ha set foot. 
the men make no motion to divide the plunder till they have see the lama bed down in the best room of the place with kim shampoo his foot mohammedan fashion. 
we will send food say the ao chung man and the red top kilta. by dawn there will be none to give evidence one way or the other. if anything be not need in the kilta see here. 
he point through the window open into space that be fill with moonlight reflect from the snow and throw out an empty whisky bottle. 
no need to listen for the fall. this be the world s end he say and go out. the lama look forth a hand on either sill with eye that shine like yellow opal. from the enormous pit before him white peak lift themselves yearn to the moonlight. the rest be a the darkness of interstellar space. 
these he say slowly be indeed my hill. thus should a man abide perch above the world separate from delight consider vast matter. 
yes. if he ha a chela to prepare tea for him and to fold a blanket for his head and to chase out calve cow. 
a smoky lamp burn in a niche but the full moonlight beat it down. and by the mix light stoop above the food bag and cup kim move like a tall ghost. 
ai. but now i have let the blood cool my head still beat and drum and there be a cord round the back of my neck. 
no wonder. it be a strong blow. may he who deal it. 
but for my own passion there would have be no evil. 
what evil. thou hast save the sahib from the death they deserve a hundred time. 
the lesson be not well learn chela. the lama come to rest on a fold blanket a kim go forward with his even routine. the blow be but a shadow upon a shadow. evil in itself my leg weary apace these latter day. it meet evil in me. anger rage and a lust to return evil. these work in my blood wake tumult in my stomach and dazzle my ear. here he drink scald black tea ceremonially take the hot cup from kim s hand. have i be passionless the evil blow would have do only bodily evil a scar or a bruise which be illusion. but my mind be not abstract for rush in straightway a lust to let the spiti men kill. in fight that lust my soul be tear and wrench beyond a thousand blow. not till i have repeat the blessing. he mean the buddhist beatitude. do i achieve calm. but the evil plant in me by that moment s carelessness work out to it end. just be the wheel swerve not a hair. learn the lesson chela. 
it be too high for me kim mutter. i be still all shake. i be glad i hurt the man. 
i felt that sleep upon thy knee in the wood below. it disquiet me in my dream the evil in thy soul work through to mine. yet on the other hand he loose his rosary i have acquire merit by save two life the life of those that wrong me. now i must see into the cause of thing. the boat of my soul stagger. 
sleep and be strong. that be wise. 
i meditate. there be a need great than thou knowest. 
till the dawn hour after hour a the moonlight pal on the high peak and that which have be belt blackness on the side of the far hill show a tender green forest the lama star fixedly at the wall. from time to time he groan. outside the bar door where discomfit kine come to ask for their old stable shamlegh and the cooly give itself up to plunder and riotous live. the ao chung man be their leader and once they have open the sahib tin food and find that they be very good they dare not turn back. shamlegh kitchen midden take the dunnage. 
when kim after a night of bad dream steal forth to brush his teeth in the morning chill a fair colour woman with turquoise stud headgear draw him aside. 
the others have go. they leave thee this kilta a the promise be. i do not love sahib but thou wilt make u a charm in return for it. we do not wish little shamlegh to get a bad name on account of the accident. i be the woman of shamlegh. she look him over with bold bright eye unlike the usual furtive glance of hillwomen. 
assuredly. but it must be do in secret. 
she raise the heavy kilta like a toy and sling it into her own hut. 
out and bar the door. let none come near till it be finish say kim. 
but afterwards we may talk. 
kim tilt the kilta on the floor a cascade of survey instrument book diary letter map and queerly scent native correspondence. at the very bottom be an embroider bag cover a seal gild and illuminate document such a one king send to another. kim catch his breath with delight and review the situation from a sahib s point of view. 
the book i do not want. besides they be logarithm survey i suppose. he lay them aside. the letter i do not understand but colonel creighton will. they must all be keep. the map they draw good map than me of course. all the native letter oho. and particularly the murasla. he sniff the embroider bag. that must be from hilas or bunar and hurree babu speak truth. by jove. it be a fine haul. i wish hurree could know. the rest must go out of the window. he finger a superb prismatic compass and the shiny top of a theodolite. but after all a sahib cannot very well steal and the thing might be inconvenient evidence late. he sort out every scrap of manuscript every map and the native letter. they make one softish slab. the three lock ferril back book with five wear pocket book he put aside. 
the letter and the murasla i must carry inside my coat and under my belt and the hand write book i must put into the food bag. it will be very heavy. no. i do not think there be anything more. if there be the cooly have throw it down the khud so thatt be all right. now you go too. he repacked the kilta with all he mean to lose and heave it up on to the windowsill. a thousand foot below lay a long lazy round shoulder bank of mist a yet untouched by the morning sun. a thousand foot below that be a hundred year old pine forest. he could see the green top look like a bed of moss when a wind eddy thin the cloud. 
no. i don t think any one will go after you. 
the wheel basket vomit it content a it drop. the theodolite hit a jut cliff ledge and explode like a shell. the book inkstand paint box compass and ruler show for a few second like a swarm of bee. then they vanish. and though kim hang half out of the window strain his young ear never a sound come up from the gulf. 
five hundred a thousand rupee could not buy them he think sorrowfully. it be verree wasteful but i have all their other stuff everything they do i hope. now how the deuce be i to tell hurree babu and whatt the deuce be i to do. and my old man be sick. i must tie up the letter in oilskin. that be something to do first else they will get all sweat. and i be all alone. he bind them into a neat packet swedging down the stiff sticky oilskin at the comer for his rove life have make him a methodical a an old hunter in matter of the road. then with double care he pack away the book at the bottom of the food bag. 
the woman rap at the door. 
but thou hast make no charm she say look about. 
there be no need. kim have completely overlook the necessity for a little patter talk. the woman laugh at his confusion irreverently. 
none for thee. thou canst cast a spell by the mere wink of an eye. but think of u poor people when thou art go. they be all too drink last night to hear a woman. thou art not drink. 
i be a priest. kim have recover himself and the woman be aught but unlovely think best to stand on his office. 
i warn them that the sahib will be angry and will make an inquisition and a report to the rajah. there be also the babu with them. clerk have long tongue. 
be that all thy trouble. the plan rise fully form in kim s mind and he smile ravishingly. 
not all quoth the woman put out a hard brown hand all cover with turquoise set in silver. 
i can finish that in a breath he go on quickly. the babu be the very hakim. thou hast hear of him. who be wander among the hill by ziglaur. i know him. 
he will tell for the sake of a reward. sahib cannot distinguish one hillman from another but babu have eye for men and woman. 
carry a word to him from me. 
there be nothing i would not do for thee. 
he accept the compliment calmly a men must in land where woman make the love tear a leaf from a note book and with a patent indelible pencil write in gross shikast the script that bad little boy use when they write dirt on wall. i have everything that they have write. their picture of the country and many letter. especially the murasla. tell me what to do. i be at shamlegh under the snow. the old man be sick. 
take this to him. it will altogether shut his mouth. he cannot have go far. 
indeed no. they be still in the forest across the spur. our child go to watch them when the light come and have cry the news a they move. 
kim look his astonishment. but from the edge of the sheep pasture float a shrill kite like trill. a child tend cattle have pick it up from a brother or sister on the far side of the slope that command chini valley. 
my husband be also out there gather wood. she draw a handful of walnut from her bosom split one neatly and begin to eat. kim affect blank ignorance. 
dost thou not know the mean of the walnut priest. she say coyly and hand him the half shell. 
well think of. he slip the piece of paper between them quickly. hast thou a little wax to close them on this letter. 
the woman sigh aloud and kim relent. 
there be no payment till service ha be render. carry this to the babu and say it be send by the son of the charm. 
ai. truly. truly. by a magician who be like a sahib. 
nay a son of the charm. and ask if there be any answer. 
but if he offer a rudeness. i i be afraid. 
kim laugh. he be i have no doubt very tire and very hungry. the hill make cold bedfellow. hai my it be on the tip of his tongue to say mother but he turn it to sister thou art a wise and witty woman. by this time all the village know what ha befall the sahib eh. 
true. news be at ziglaur by midnight and by tomorrow should be at kotgarh. the village be both afraid and angry. 
no need. tell the village to fee the sahib and pas them on in peace. we must get them quietly away from our valley. to steal be one thing to kill another. the babu will understand and there will be no after complaint. be swift. i must tend my master when he wake. 
so be it. after service thou hast say. come the reward. i be the woman of shamlegh and i hold from the rajah. i be no common bearer of babe. shamlegh be thine. hoof and horn and hide milk and butter. take or leave. 
she turn resolutely uphill her silver necklace click on her broad breast to meet the morning sun fifteen hundred foot above them. this time kim think in the vernacular a he wax down the oilskin edge of the packet. 
how can a man follow the way or the great game when he be so always pester by woman. there be that girl at akrola of the ford. and there be the scullion s wife behind the dovecot not count the others and now come this one. when i be a child it be well enough but now i be a man and they will not regard me a a man. walnut indeed. ho. ho. it be almond in the plain. 
he go out to levy on the village not with a beg bowl which might do for down country but in the manner of a prince. shamlegh s summer population be only three family four woman and eight or nine men. they be all full of tin meat and mix drink from ammoniate quinine to white vodka for they have take their full share in the overnight loot. the neat continental tent have be cut up and share long ago and there be patent aluminium saucepan abroad. 
but they consider the lama s presence a perfect safeguard against all consequence and impenitently bring kim of their best even to a drink of chang the barley beer that come from ladakh way. then they thaw out in the sun and sit with their leg hang over infinite abyss chatter laugh and smoke. they judge india and it government solely from their experience of wander sahib who have employ them or their friend a shikarris. kim hear tale of shot miss upon ibex serow or markhor by sahib twenty year in their graf every detail light from behind like twig on tree top see against lightning. they tell him of their little disease and more important the disease of their tiny sure foot cattle. of trip a far a kotgarh where the strange missionary live and beyond even to marvellous simla where the street be pave with silver and anyone look you can get service with the sahib who ride about in two wheel cart and spend money with a spade. presently grave and aloof walk very heavily the lama join himself to the chatter under the eaves and they give him great room. the thin air refresh him and he sit on the edge of precipice with the best of them and when talk languish fling pebble into the void. thirty mile away a the eagle fly lay the next range seam and channel and pit with little patch of brush forest each a day s dark march. behind the village shamlegh hill itself cut off all view to southward. it be like sit in a swallow s nest under the eaves of the roof of the world. 
from time to time the lama stretch out his hand and with a little low voice prompt would point out the road to spiti and north across the parungla. 
beyond where the hill lie thick lie de ch en. he mean han le. the great monastery. s tag stan ra ch en build it and of him there run this tale. whereupon he tell it. a fantastic pile narrative of bewitchment and miracle that set shamlegh a gasp. turn west a little he steer for the green hill of kulu and seek kailung under the glacier. for thither come i in the old old day. from leh i come over the baralachi. 
yes yes. we know it say the far fare people of shamlegh. 
and i sleep two night with the priest of kailung. these be the hill of my delight. shadow bless above all other shadow. there my eye open on this world. there my eye be open to this world. there i find enlightenment. and there i gird my loin for my search. out of the hill i come the high hill and the strong wind. oh just be the wheel. he bless them in detail the great glacier the naked rock the pile moraine and tumble shale. dry upland hide salt lake age old timber and fruitful water shoot valley one after the other a a die man bless his folk. and kim marvel at his passion. 
yes yes. there be no place like our hill say the people of shamlegh. and they fell to wonder how a man could live in the hot terrible plain where the cattle run a big a elephant unfit to plough on a hillside. where village touch village they have hear for a hundred mile. where folk go about steal in gang and what the robber spar the police carry utterly away. 
so the still forenoon wear through and at the end of it kim s messenger drop from the steep pasture a unbreathed a when she have set out. 
i send a word to the hakim kim explain while she make reverence. 
he join himself to the idolater. nay i remember he do a heal upon one of them. he ha acquire merit though the heal employ his strength for evil. just be the wheel. what of the hakim. 
i fear that thou hadst be bruise and and i know he be wise. kim take the wax walnut shell and read in english on the back of his note. your favour receive. cannot get away from present company at present but shall take them into simla. after which hope to rejoin you. inexpedient to follow angry gentleman. return by same road you come and will overtake. highly gratify about correspondence due to my forethought. he say holy one that he will escape from the idolater and will return to u. shall we wait awhile at shamlegh then. 
the lama look long and lovingly upon the hill and shake his head. 
that may not be chela. from my bone outward i do desire it but it be forbid. i have see the cause of thing. 
why. when the hill give thee back thy strength day by day. remember we be weak and faint down below there in the doon. 
i become strong to do evil and to forget. a brawler and a swashbuckler upon the hillside be i. kim bite back a smile. just and perfect be the wheel swerve not a hair. when i be a man a long time ago i do pilgrimage to guru ch wan among the poplar. he point bhotanwards. where they keep the sacred horse. 
quiet be quiet. say shamlegh all arow. he speak of jam lin nin k or the horse that can go round the world in a day. 
i speak to my chela only say the lama in gentle reproof and they scatter like frost on south eaves of a morning. i do not seek truth in those day but the talk of doctrine. all illusion. i drink the beer and eat the bread of guru ch wan. next day one say. we go out to fight sangor gutok down the valley to discover. mark again how lust be tie to anger. which abbot shall bear rule in the valley and take the profit of the prayer they print at sangor gutok. i go and we fight a day. 
but how holy one. 
with our long pencases a i could have show. i say we fight under the poplar both abbot and all the monk and one lay open my forehead to the bone. see. he tilt back his cap and show a pucker silvery scar. just and perfect be the wheel. yesterday the scar itch and after fifty year i recall how it be deal and the face of him who deal it. dwell a little in illusion. follow that which thou didst see strife and stupidity. just be the wheel. the idolater s blow fell upon the scar. then i be shake in my soul. my soul be darken and the boat of my soul rock upon the water of illusion. not till i come to shamlegh could i meditate upon the cause of thing or trace the run grass root of evil. i strive all the long night. 
but holy one thou art innocent of all evil. may i be thy sacrifice. 
kim be genuinely distress at the old man s sorrow and mahbub ali s phrase slip out unawares. 
in the dawn the lama go on more gravely ready rosary click between the slow sentence come enlightenment. it be here. i be an old man. hill breed hill feed never to sit down among my hill. three year i travel through hind but can earth be strong than mother earth. my stupid body yearn to the hill and the snow of the hill from below there. i say and it be true my search be sure. so at the kulu woman s house i turn hillward over persuade by myself. there be no blame to the hakim. he follow desire foretell that the hill would make me strong. they strengthen me to do evil to forget my search. i delight in life and the lust of life. i desire strong slope to climb. i cast about to find them. i measure the strength of my body which be evil against the high hill i make a mock of thee when thy breath come short under jamnotri. i jest when thou wouldst not face the snow of the pas. 
but what harm. i be afraid. it be just. i be not a hillman. and i love thee for thy new strength. 
more than once i remember he rest his cheek dolefully on his hand i seek thy praise and the hakim s for the mere strength of my leg. thus evil follow evil till the cup be full. just be the wheel. all hind for three year do me all honour. from the fountain of wisdom in the wonder house to he smile a little child play by a big gun the world prepare my road. and why. 
because we love thee. it be only the fever of the blow. i myself be still sick and shake. 
no. it be because i be upon the way tune a be si nen [cymbals] to the purpose of the law. i depart from that ordinance. the tune be break. follow the punishment. in my own hill on the edge of my own country in the very place of my evil desire come the buffet here. he touch his brow. a a novice be beat when he misplace the cup so be i beat who be abbot of such zen. no word look you but a blow chela. 
but the sahib do not know thee holy one. 
we be well match. ignorance and lust meet ignorance and lust upon the road and they beget anger. the blow be a sign to me who be no good than a stray yak that my place be not here. who can read the cause of an act be halfway to freedom. back to the path say the blow. the hill be not for thee. thou canst not choose freedom and go in bondage to the delight of life. 
would we have never meet that curse russian. 
our lord himself cannot make the wheel swing backward. and for my merit that i have acquire i gain yet another sign. he put his hand in his bosom and draw forth the wheel of life. look. i consider this after i have meditate. there remain untorn by the idolater no more than the breadth of my fingernail. 
i see. 
so much then be the span of my life in this body. i have serve the wheel all my day. now the wheel serf me. but for the merit i have acquire in guide thee upon the way there would have be add to me yet another life ere i have find my river. be it plain chela. 
kim star at the brutally disfigure chart. from leave to right diagonally the rent run from the eleventh house where desire give birth to the child. a it be draw by tibetan. across the human and animal world to the fifth house the empty house of the sens. the logic be unanswerable. 
before our lord win enlightenment the lama fold all away with reverence he be tempt. i too have be tempt but it be finish. the arrow fell in the plain not in the hill. therefore what make we here. 
shall we at least wait for the hakim. 
i know how long i shall live in this body. what can a hakim do. 
but thou art all sick and shake. thou canst not walk. 
how can i be sick if i see freedom. he rise unsteadily to his foot. 
then i must get food from the village. oh the weary road. kim felt that he too need rest. 
that be lawful. let u eat and go. the arrow fell in the plain. but i yield to desire. make ready chela. 
kim turn to the woman with the turquoise headgear who have be idly pitch pebble over the cliff. she smile very kindly. 
i find him like a stray buffalo in a cornfield the babu. snort and sneeze with cold. he be so hungry that he forget his dignity and give me sweet word. the sahib have nothing. she fling out an empty palm. one be very sick about the stomach. thy work. 
kim nod with a bright eye. 
i speak to the bengali first and to the people of a near by village after. the sahib will be give food a they need it nor will the people ask money. the plunder be already distribute. the babu make lie speech to the sahib. why doe he not leave them. 
out of the greatness of his heart. 
be never a bengali yet have one big than a dry walnut. but it be no matter. now a to walnut. after service come reward. i have say the village be thine. 
it be my loss kim begin. even now i have plan desirable thing in my heart which there be no need to go through the compliment proper to these occasion. he sigh deeply. but my master lead by a vision. 
huh. what can old eye see except a full beg bowl. 
turn from this village to the plain again. 
bid him stay. 
kim shake his head. i know my holy one and his rage if he be cross he reply impressively. his curse shake the hill. 
pity they do not save him from a break head. i hear that thou wast the tiger hearted one who smite the sahib. let him dream a little long. stay. 
hillwoman say kim with austerity that could not harden the outline of his young oval face these matter be too high for thee. 
the god be good to u. since when have men and woman be other than men and woman. 
a priest be a priest. he say he will go upon this hour. i be his chela and i go with him. we need food for the road. he be an honour guest in all the village but he break into a pure boy s grin the food here be good. give me some. 
what if i do not give it thee. i be the woman of this village. 
then i curse thee a little not greatly but enough to remember. he could not help smile. 
thou hast curse me already by the down drop eyelash and the uplift chin. curse. what should i care for mere word. she clench her hand upon her bosom. but i would not have thee to go in anger think hardly of me a gatherer of cow dung and grass at shamlegh but still a woman of substance. 
i think nothing say kim but that i be grieve to go for i be very weary. and that we need food. here be the bag. 
the woman snatch it angrily. i be foolish say she. who be thy woman in the plain. fair or black. i be fair once. laughest thou. once long ago if thou canst believe a sahib look on me with favour. once long ago i wear european clothe at the mission house yonder. she point towards kotgarh. once long ago. i be k li ti an and speak english a the sahib speak it. yes. my sahib say he would return and wed me yes wed me. he go away i have nurse him when he be sick but he never return. then i saw that the god of the kerlistians lie and i go back to my own people. i have never set eye on a sahib since. do not laugh at me. the fit be past little priestling. thy face and thy walk and thy fashion of speech put me in mind of my sahib though thou art only a wander mendicant to whom i give a dole. curse me. thou canst neither curse nor bless. she set her hand on her hip and laugh bitterly. thy god be lie. thy work be lie. thy word be lie. there be no god under all the heaven. i know it. but for awhile i think it be my sahib come back and he be my god. yes once i make music on a pianno in the mission house at kotgarh. now i give alms to priest who be heatthen. she wind up with the english word and tie the mouth of the brim bag. 
i wait for thee chela say the lama lean against the door post. 
the woman sweep the tall figure with her eye. he walk. he cannot cover half a mile. whither would old bone go. 
at this kim already perplex by the lama s collapse and foresee the weight of the bag fairly lose his temper. 
what be it to thee woman of ill omen where he go. 
nothing but something to thee priest with a sahib s face. wilt thou carry him on thy shoulder. 
i go to the plain. none must hind my return. i have wrestle with my soul till i be strengthless. the stupid body be spend and we be far from the plain. 
behold. she say simply and draw aside to let kim see his own utter helplessness. curse me. maybe it will give him strength. make a charm. call on thy great god. thou art a priest. she turn away. 
the lama have squat limply still hold by the door post. one cannot strike down an old man that he recover again like a boy in the night. weakness bow him to the earth but his eye that hang on kim be alive and implore. 
it be all well say kim. it be the thin air that weaken thee. in a little while we go. it be the mountain sickness. i too be a little sick at stomach and he kneel and comfort with such poor word a come first to his lip. then the woman return more erect than ever. 
thy god useless heh. try mine. i be the woman of shamlegh. she hail hoarsely and there come out of a cow pen her two husband and three others with a dooli the rude native litter of the hill that they use for carry the sick and for visit of state. these cattle she do not condescend to look at them be thine for so long a thou shalt need. 
but we will not go simla way. we will not go near the sahib cry the first husband. 
they will not run away a the others do nor will they steal baggage. two i know for weakling. stand to the rear pole sonoo and taree. they obey swiftly. low now and lift in that holy man. i will see to the village and your virtuous wife till ye return. 
when will that be. 
ask the priest. do not pester me. lay the food bag at the foot it balance good so. 
oh holy one thy hill be kind than our plain. cry kim relieve a the lama totter to the litter. it be a very king s bed a place of honour and ease. and we owe it to. 
a woman of ill omen. i need thy blessing a much a i do thy curse. it be my order and none of thine. lift and away. here. hast thou money for the road. 
she beckon kim to her hut and stoop above a batter english cash box under her cot. 
i do not need anything say kim anger where he should have be grateful. i be already rudely load with favour. 
she look up with a curious smile and lay a hand on his shoulder. at least thank me. i be foul face and a hillwoman but a thy talk go i have acquire merit. shall i show thee how the sahib render thank. and her hard eye soften. 
i be but a wander priest say kim his eye light in answer. thou needest neither my blessing nor my curse. 
nay. but for one little moment thou canst overtake the dooli in ten stride if thou wast a sahib shall i show thee what thou wouldst do. 
how if i guess though. say kim and put his arm round her waist he kiss her on the cheek add in english. thank you verree much my dear. 
kiss be practically unknown among asiatic which may have be the reason that she lean back with wide open eye and a face of panic. 
next time kim go on you must not be so sure of your heatthen priest. now i say good bye. he hold out his hand english fashion. she take it mechanically. good bye my dear. 
good bye and and she be remember her english word one by one you will come back again. good bye and thee god bless you. 
half an hour late a the creak litter jolt up the hill path that lead south easterly from shamlegh kim saw a tiny figure at the hut door wave a white rag. 
she ha acquire merit beyond all others say the lama. for to set a man upon the way to freedom be half a great a though she have herself find it. 
umm say kim thoughtfully consider the past. it may be that i have acquire merit also. at least she do not treat me like a child. he hitch the front of his robe where lay the slab of document and map re stow the precious food bag at the lama s foot lay his hand on the litter s edge and buckle down to the slow pace of the grunt husband. 
these also acquire merit say the lama after three mile. 
more than that they shall be pay in silver quoth kim. the woman of shamlegh have give it to him. and it be only fair he argue that her men should earn it back again. 
chapter. 
i d not give room for an emperor i d hold my road for a king. to the triple crown i d not bow down but this be a different thing. i ll not fight with the power of air sentry pas him through. drawbridge let fall he s the lord of u all the dreamer whose dream come true. 
the siege of the fairy. 
two hundred mile north of chini on the blue shale of ladakh lie yankling sahib the merry mind man spy glass wrathfully across the ridge for some sign of his pet tracker a man from ao chung. but that renegade with a new mannlicher rifle and two hundred cartridge be elsewhere shoot musk deer for the market and yankling sahib will learn next season how very ill he ha be. 
up the valley of bushahr the far behold eagle of the himalaya swerve at his new blue and white gore umbrella hurry a bengali once fat and well look now lean and weather wear. he ha receive the thank of two foreigner of distinction pilot not unskilfully to mashobra tunnel which lead to the great and gay capital of india. it be not his fault that blanket by wet mist he convey them past the telegraph station and european colony of kotgarh. it be not his fault but that of the god of whom he discourse so engagingly that he lead them into the border of nahan where the rahah of that state mistake them for desert british soldiery. hurree babu explain the greatness and glory in their own country of his companion till the drowsy kinglet smile. he explain it to everyone who ask many time aloud variously. he beg food arrange accommodation prove a skilful leech for an injury of the groin such a blow a one may receive roll down a rock cover hillside in the dark and in all thing indispensable. the reason of his friendliness do him credit. with million of fellow serf he have learn to look upon russia a the great deliverer from the north. he be a fearful man. he have be afraid that he could not save his illustrious employer from the anger of an excite peasantry. he himself would just a lief hit a holy man a not but. he be deeply grateful and sincerely rejoice that he have do his little possible towards bring their venture to bar the lose baggage a successful issue he have forget the blow. deny that any blow have be deal that unseemly first night under the pine. he ask neither pension nor retain fee but if they deem him worthy would they write him a testimonial. it might be useful to him late if others their friend come over the pass. he beg them to remember him in their future greatness for he opine subtly that he even he mohendro lal dutt ma of calcutta have do the state some service. 
they give him a certificate praise his courtesy helpfulness and unerring skill a a guide. he put it in his waist belt and sob with emotion. they have endure so many danger together. he lead them at high noon along crowd simla mall to the alliance bank of simla where they wish to establish their identity. thence he vanish like a dawn cloud on jakko. 
behold him too fine draw to sweat too press to vaunt the drug in his little brass bind box ascend shamlegh slope a just man make perfect. watch him all babudom lay aside smoke at noon on a cot while a woman with turquoise stud headgear point south easterly across the bare grass. litter she say do not travel a fast a single men but his bird should now be in the plain. the holy man would not stay though lispeth press him. the babu groan heavily gird up his huge loin and be off again. he doe not care to travel after dusk. but his day march there be none to enter them in a book would astonish folk who mock at his race. kindly villager remember the dacca drug vendor of two month ago give him shelter against evil spirit of the wood. he dream of bengali god university text book of education and the royal society london england. next dawn the bob blue and white umbrella go forward. 
on the edge of the doon mussoorie well behind them and the plain spread out in golden dust before rest a wear litter in which all the hill know it lie a sick lama who seek a river for his heal. village have almost come to blow over the honour of bear it for not only ha the lama give them blessing but his disciple good money full one third sahib price. twelve mile a day ha the dooli travel a the greasy rub pole end show and by road that few sahib use. over the nilang pas in storm when the drive snow dust fill every fold of the impassive lama s drapery. between the black horn of raieng where they hear the whistle of the wild goat through the cloud. pitch and strain on the shale below. hard hold between shoulder and clench jaw when they round the hideous curve of the cut road under bhagirati. swing and creak to the steady jog trot of the descent into the valley of the water. press along the steamy level of that lock valley. up up and out again to meet the roar gust off kedarnath. set down of mid day in the dun gloom of kindly oak forest. pass from village to village in dawn chill when even devotee may be forgive for swear at impatient holy men. or by torchlight when the least fearful think of ghost the dooli ha reach her last stage. the little hill folk sweat in the modify heat of the low siwaliks and gather round the priest for their bless and their wage. 
ye have acquire merit say the lama. merit great than your know. and ye will return to the hill he sigh. 
surely. the high hill a soon a may be. the bearer rub his shoulder drink water spit it out again and readjust his grass sandal. kim his face be draw and tire pay very small silver from his belt heave out the food bag cram an oilskin packet they be holy writing into his bosom and help the lama to his foot. the peace ha come again into the old man s eye and he doe not look for the hill to fall down and crush him a he do that terrible night when they be delay by the flood river. 
the men pick up the dooli and swing out of sight between the scrub clump. 
the lama raise a hand toward the rampart of the himalaya. not with you o bless among all hill fell the arrow of our lord. and never shall i breathe your air again. 
but thou art ten time the strong man in this good air say kim for to his weary soul appeal the well crop kindly plain. here or hereabouts fell the arrow yes. we will go very softly perhaps a kos a day for the search be sure. but the bag weigh heavy. 
ay our search be sure. i have come out of great temptation. 
it be never more than a couple of mile a day now and kim s shoulder bore all the weight of it the burden of an old man the burden of the heavy food bag with the lock book the load of the writing on his heart and the detail of the daily routine. he beg in the dawn set blanket for the lama s meditation hold the weary head on his lap through the noonday heat fan away the fly till his wrist ache beg again in the evening and rub the lama s foot who reward him with promise of freedom today tomorrow or at furthest the next day. 
never be such a chela. i doubt at time whether ananda more faithfully nurse our lord. and thou art a sahib. when i be a man a long time ago i forget that. now i look upon thee often and every time i remember that thou art a sahib. it be strange. 
thou hast say there be neither black nor white. why plague me with this talk holy one. let me rub the other foot. it vex me. i be not a sahib. i be thy chela and my head be heavy on my shoulder. 
patience a little. we reach freedom together. then thou and i upon the far bank of the river will look back upon our life a in the hill we saw our day march lay out behind u. perhaps i be once a sahib. 
be never a sahib like thee i swear it. 
i be certain the keeper of the image in the wonder house be in past life a very wise abbot. but even his spectacle do not make my eye see. there fall shadow when i would look steadily. no matter we know the trick of the poor stupid carcass shadow change to another shadow. i be bind by the illusion of time and space. how far come we today in the flesh. 
perhaps half a kos. three quarter of a mile and it be a weary march. 
half a kos. ha. i go ten thousand thousand in the spirit. how we be all lap and swathe and swaddle in these senseless thing. he look at his thin blue vein hand that find the bead so heavy. chela hast thou never a wish to leave me. 
kim think of the oilskin packet and the book in the food bag. if someone duly authorize would only take delivery of them the great game might play itself for aught he then care. he be tire and hot in his head and a cough that come from the stomach worry him. 
no. he say almost sternly. i be not a dog or a snake to bite when i have learn to love. 
thou art too tender towards me. 
not that either. i have move in one matter without consult thee. i have send a message to the kulu woman by that woman who give u the goat s milk this morn say that thou wast a little feeble and wouldst need a litter. i beat myself in my mind that i do not do it when we enter the doon. we stay in this place till the litter return. 
i be content. she be a woman with a heart of gold a thou sayest but a talker something of a talker. 
she will not weary thee. i have look to that also. holy one my heart be very heavy for my many carelessness towards thee. an hysterical catch rise in his throat. i have walk thee too far. i have not pick good food always for thee. i have not consider the heat. i have talk to people on the road and leave thee alone. i have i have. hai mai. but i love thee. and it be all too late. i be a child. oh why be i not a man. overbear by strain fatigue and the weight beyond his year kim break down and sob at the lama s foot. 
what a to do be here. say the old man gently. thou hast never step a hair s breadth from the way of obedience. neglect me. child i have live on thy strength a an old tree life on the lime of a new wall. day by day since shamlegh down i have steal strength from thee. therefore not through any sin of thine art thou weaken. it be the body the silly stupid body that speak now. not the assure soul. be comfort. know at least the devil that thou fightest. they be earth bear child of illusion. we will go to the woman from kulu. she shall acquire merit in house u and specially in tend me. thou shalt run free till strength return. i have forget the stupid body. if there be any blame i bear it. but we be too close to the gate of deliverance to weigh blame. i could praise thee but what need. in a little in a very little we shall sit beyond all need. 
and so he pet and comfort kim with wise saw and grave text on that little understand beast our body who be but a delusion insist on pose a the soul to the darken of the way and the immense multiplication of unnecessary devil. 
hai. hai. let u talk of the woman from kulu. think you she will ask another charm for her grandson. when i be a young man a very long time ago i be plague with these vapour and some others and i go to an abbot a very holy man and a seeker after truth though then i know it not. sit up and listen child of my soul. my tale be tell. say he to me chela know this. there be many lie in the world and not a few liar but there be no liar like our body except it be the sensation of our body. consider this i be comfort and of his great favour he suffer me to drink tea in his presence. suffer me now to drink tea for i be thirsty. 
with a laugh across his tear kim kiss the lama s foot and set about the tea make. 
thou lean on me in the body holy one but i lean on thee for some other thing. dost know it. 
i have guess maybe and the lama s eye twinkle. we must change that. 
so when with scuffle and scraping and a hot air of importance paddle up nothing le than the sahiba s pet palanquin send twenty mile with that same grizzle old oorya servant in charge and when they reach the disorderly order of the long white ramble house behind saharunpore the lama take his own measure. 
say the sahiba cheerily from an upper window after compliment. what be the good of an old woman s advice to an old man. i tell thee i tell thee holy one to keep an eye upon the chela. how didst thou do it. never answer me. i know. he ha be run among the woman. look at his eye hollow and sink and the betray line from the nose down. he ha be sift out. fie. fie. and a priest too. 
kim look up over weary to smile shake his head in denial. 
do not jest say the lama. that time be do. we be here upon great matter. a sickness of soul take me in the hill and him a sickness of the body. since then i have live upon his strength eat him. 
child together young and old she sniff but forbear to make any new joke. may this present hospitality restore ye. hold awhile and i will come to gossip of the high good hill. 
at even time her son in law be return so she do not need to go on inspection round the farm she win to the meat of the matter explain low voicedly by the lama. the two old head nod wisely together. kim have reel to a room with a cot in it and be doze soddenly. the lama have forbid him to set blanket or get food. 
i know i know. who but i. she cackle. we who go down to the burn ghat clutch at the hand of those come up from the river of life with full water jar yes brim water jar. i do the boy wrong. he lend thee his strength. it be true that the old eat the young daily. stand now we must restore him. 
thou hast many time acquire merit. 
my merit. what be it. old bag of bone make curry for men who do not ask who cook this. now if it be store up for my grandson. 
he that have the belly pain. 
to think the holy one remember that. i must tell his mother. it be most singular honour. he that have the belly pain straightway the holy one remember. she will be proud. 
my chela be to me a be a son to the unenlightened. 
say grandson rather. mother have not the wisdom of our year. if a child cry they say the heaven be fall. now a grandmother be far enough separate from the pain of bear and the pleasure of give the breast to consider whether a cry be wickedness pure or the wind. and since thou speakest once again of wind when last the holy one be here maybe i offend in press for charm. 
sister say the lama use that form of address a buddhist monk may sometimes employ towards a nun if charm comfort thee. 
they be good than ten thousand doctor. 
i say if they comfort thee i who be abbot of such zen will make a many a thou mayest desire. i have never see thy face. 
that even the monkey who steal our loquat count for again. hee. hee. 
but a he who sleep there say he nod at the shut door of the guest chamber across the forecourt thou hast a heart of gold. and he be in the spirit my very grandson to me. 
good. i be the holy one s cow. this be pure hinduism but the lama never heed. i be old. i have bear son in the body. oh once i could please men. now i can cure them. he hear her armlet tinkle a though she bar arm for action. i will take over the boy and dose him and stuff him and make him all whole. hai. hai. we old people know something yet. 
wherefore when kim ache in every bone open his eye and would go to the cook house to get his master s food he find strong coercion about him and a veil old figure at the door flank by the grizzle manservant who tell him very precisely the thing that he be on no account to do. 
thou must have. thou shalt have nothing. what. a lock box in which to keep holy book. oh that be another matter. heaven forbid i should come between a priest and his prayer. it shall be bring and thou shalt keep the key. 
they push the coffer under his cot and kim shut away mahbub s pistol the oilskin packet of letter and the lock book and diary with a groan of relief. for some absurd reason their weight on his shoulder be nothing to their weight on his poor mind. his neck ache under it of night. 
thine be a sickness uncommon in youth these day. since young folk have give up tend their better. the remedy be sleep and certain drug say the sahiba. and he be glad to give himself up to the blankness that half menace and half soothe him. 
she brew drink in some mysterious asiatic equivalent to the still room drench that smelt pestilently and taste bad. she stand over kim till they go down and inquire exhaustively after they have come up. she lay a taboo upon the forecourt and enforce it by mean of an arm man. it be true he be seventy odd that his scabbarded sword cease at the hilt. but he represent the authority of the sahiba and load wain chatter servant calf dog hen and the like fetch a wide compass by those part. best of all when the body be clear she cut out from the mass of poor relation that crowd the back of the building house hold dog we name them a cousin s widow skilled in what european who know nothing about it call massage. and the two of them lay him east and west that the mysterious earth current which thrill the clay of our body might help and not hind take him to piece all one long afternoon bone by bone muscle by muscle ligament by ligament and lastly nerve by nerve. knead to irresponsible pulp half hypnotize by the perpetual flick and readjustment of the uneasy chudders that veil their eye kim slide ten thousand mile into slumber thirty six hour of it sleep that soak like rain after drought. 
then she feed him and the house spin to her clamour. she cause fowl to be slay. she send for vegetable and the sober slow think gardener nigh a old a she sweat for it. she take spice and milk and onion with little fish from the brook anon lime for sherbet fat quail from the pit then chicken liver upon a skewer with slice ginger between. 
i have see something of this world she say over the crowd tray and there be but two sort of woman in it those who take the strength out of a man and those who put it back. once i be that one and now i be this. nay do not play the priestling with me. mine be but a jest. if it doe not hold good now it will when thou takest the road again. cousin this to the poor relation never weary of extol her patroness s charity he be get a bloom on the skin of a new curry horse. our work be like polish jewel to be throw to a dance girl eh. 
kim sit up and smile. the terrible weakness have drop from him like an old shoe. his tongue itch for free speech again and but a week back the light word clog it like ash. the pain in his neck. he must have catch it from the lama. have go with the heavy dengue ache and the evil taste in the mouth. the two old woman a little but not much more careful about their veil now cluck a merrily a the hen that have enter peck through the open door. 
where be my holy one. he demand. 
hear him. thy holy one be well she snap viciously. though that be none of his merit. know i a charm to make him wise i d sell my jewel and buy it. to refuse good food that i cook myself and go rove into the field for two night on an empty belly and to tumble into a brook at the end of it call you that holiness. then when he ha nearly break what thou hast leave of my heart with anxiety he tell me that he ha acquire merit. oh how like be all men. no that be not it he tell me that he be free from all sin. i could have tell him that before he wet himself all over. he be well now this happen a week ago but burn me such holiness. a babe of three would do good. do not fret thyself for the holy one. he keep both eye on thee when he be not wad our brook. 
i do not remember to have see him. i remember that the day and night pass like bar of white and black open and shut. i be not sick. i be but tire. 
a lethargy that come by right some few score year late. but it be do now. 
maharanee kim begin but lead by the look in her eye change it to the title of plain love mother i owe my life to thee. how shall i make thank. ten thousand blessing upon thy house and. 
the house be unblessed. it be impossible to give exactly the old lady s word. thank the god a a priest if thou wilt but thank me if thou carest a a son. heaven above. have i shift thee and lift thee and slap and twist thy ten toe to find text fling at my head. somewhere a mother must have bear thee to break her heart. what use thou to her son. 
i have no mother my mother say kim. she die they tell me when i be young. 
hai mai. then none can say i have rob her of any right if when thou takest the road again and this house be but one of a thousand use for shelter and forget after an easy fling bless. no matter. i need no blessing but but she stamp her foot at the poor relation. take up the tray to the house. what be the good of stale food in the room o woman of ill omen. 
i ha have bear a son in my time too but he die whimper the bow sister figure behind the chudder. thou knowest he die. i only wait for the order to take away the tray. 
it be i that be the woman of ill omen cry the old lady penitently. we that go down to the chattris [the big umbrella above the burn ghat where the priest take their last dues] clutch hard at the bearer of the chattis [water jar young folk full of the pride of life she mean. but the pun be clumsy]. when one cannot dance in the festival one must e en look out of the window and grandmothering take all a woman s time. thy master give me all the charm i now desire for my daughter s eldest by reason be it. that he be wholly free from sin. the hakim be bring very low these day. he go about poison my servant for lack of their better. 
what hakim mother. 
that very dacca man who give me the pill which rent me in three piece. he cast up like a stray camel a week ago vow that he and thou have be blood brother together up kulu way and feign great anxiety for thy health. he be very thin and hungry so i give order to have him stuff too him and his anxiety. 
i would see him if he be here. 
he eat five time a day and lance boil for my hind to save himself from an apoplexy. he be so full of anxiety for thy health that he stick to the cook house door and stay himself with scrap. he will keep. we shall never get rid of him. 
send him here mother the twinkle return to kim s eye for a flash and i will try. 
i ll send him but to chase him off be an ill turn. at least he have the sense to fish the holy one out of the brook. thus a the holy one do not say acquire merit. 
he be a very wise hakim. send him mother. 
priest praise priest. a miracle. if he be any friend of thine. ye squabble at your last meet. i ll hale him here with horse rope and and give him a caste dinner afterwards my son. get up and see the world. this lie abed be the mother of seventy devil. my son. my son. 
she trot forth to raise a typhoon off the cook house and almost on her shadow roll in the babu rob a to the shoulder like a roman emperor jowled like titus bare head with new patent leather shoe in high condition of fat exude joy and salutation. 
by jove mister o hara but i be jolly glad to see you. i will kindly shut the door. it be a pity you be sick. be you very sick. 
the paper the paper from the kilta. the map and the murasla. he hold out the key impatiently. for the present need on his soul be to get rid of the loot. 
you be quite right. that be correct departmental view to take. you have get everything. 
all that be handwritten in the kilta i take. the rest i throw down the hill. he could hear the key s grate in the lock the sticky pull of the slow rend oilskin and a quick shuffle of paper. he have be annoy out of all reason by the knowledge that they lay below him through the sick idle day a burden incommunicable. for that reason the blood tingle through his body when hurree skip elephantinely shake hand again. 
this be fine. this be fine. mister o hara. you have ha. ha. swipe the whole bag of trick lock stock and barrel. they tell me it be eight month work go up the spout. by jove how they beat me. look here be the letter from hilas. he intone a line or two of court persian which be the language of authorize and unauthorized diplomacy. mister rajah sahib ha just about put his foot in the hole. he will have to explain offeecially how the deuce an all he be write love letter to the czar. and they be very clever map. and there be three or four prime minister of these part implicate by the correspondence. by gad sar. the british government will change the succession in hilas and bunar and nominate new heir to the throne. trea son most base. but you do not understand. eh. 
be they in thy hand. say kim. it be all he care for. 
just you jolly well bet yourself they be. he stow the entire trove about his body a only oriental can. they be go up to the office too. the old lady think i be permanent fixture here but i shall go away with these straight off immediately. mr lurgan will be proud man. you be offeecially subordinate to me but i shall embody your name in my verbal report. it be a pity we be not allow write report. we bengali excel in thee exact science. he toss back the key and show the box empty. 
good. that be good. i be very tire. my holy one be sick too. and do he fall into. 
oah yes. i be his good friend i tell you. he be behave very strange when i come down after you and i think perhaps he might have the paper. i follow him on his meditation and to discus ethnological point also. you see i be verree small person here nowadays in comparison with all his charm. by jove o hara do you know he be afflict with infirmity of fit. yes i tell you. cataleptic too if not also epileptic. i find him in such a state under a tree in articulo mortem and he jump up and walk into a brook and he be nearly drown but for me. i pull him out. 
because i be not there. say kim. he might have die. 
yes he might have die but he be dry now and assert he ha undergo transfiguration. the babu tap his forehead knowingly. i take note of his statement for royal society in posse. you must make haste and be quite well and come back to simla and i will tell you all my tale at lurgan s. it be splendid. the bottom of their trouser be quite tear and old nahan rajah he think they be european soldier desert. 
oh the russian. how long be they with thee. 
one be a frenchman. oh day and day and day. now all the hill people believe all russian be all beggar. by jove. they have not one dam thing that i do not get them. and i tell the common people oah such tale and anecdote. i will tell you at old lurgan s when you come up. we will have ah a night out. it be feather in both our cap. yes and they give me a certificate. that be cream joke. you should have see them at the alliance bank identify themselves. and thank almighty god you get their paper so well. you do not laugh verree much but you shall laugh when you be well. now i will go straight to the railway and get out. you shall have all sort of credit for your game. when do you come along. we be very proud of you though you give u great fright. and especially mahbub. 
ay mahbub. and where be he. 
sell horse in this vi cinity of course. 
here. why. speak slowly. there be a thickness in my head still. 
the babu look shyly down his nose. well you see i be fearful man and i do not like responsibility. you be sick you see and i do not know where deuce an all the paper be and if so how many. so when i have come down here i slip in private wire to mahbub he be at meerut for race and i tell him how case stand. he come up with his men and he consort with the lama and then he call me a fool and be very rude. 
but wherefore wherefore. 
that be what i ask. i only suggest that if anyone steal the paper i should like some good strong brave men to rob them back again. you see they be vitally important and mahbub ali he do not know where you be. 
mahbub ali to rob the sahiba s house. thou art mad babu say kim with indignation. 
i want the paper. suppose she have steal them. it be only practical suggestion i think. you be not please eh. 
a native proverb unquotable show the blackness of kim s disapproval. 
well hurree shrug his shoulder there be no account for thee taste. mahbub be angry too. he ha sell horse all about here and he say old lady be pukka [thorough] old lady and would not condescend to such ungentlemanly thing. i do not care. i have get the paper and i be very glad of moral support from mahbub. i tell you i be fearful man but somehow or other the more fearful i be the more dam tight place i get into. so i be glad you come with me to chini and i be glad mahbub be close by. the old lady she be sometimes very rude to me and my beautiful pill. 
allah be merciful. say kim on his elbow rejoice. what a beast of wonder be a babu. and that man walk alone if he do walk with rob and angry foreigner. 
oah thatt be nothing after they have do beat me. but if i lose the paper it be pretty jolly serious. mahbub he nearly beat me too and he go and consort with the lama no end. i shall stick to ethnological investigation henceforwards. now good bye mister o hara. i can catch. p. m. to umballa if i be quick. it will be good time when we all tell thee tale up at mr lurgan s. i shall report you offeecially good. good bye my dear fallow and when next you be under thee emotion please do not use the mohammedan term with the tibetan dress. 
he shake hand twice a babu to his boot heel and open the door. with the fall of the sunlight upon his still triumphant face he return to the humble dacca quack. 
he rob them think kim forget his own share in the game. he trick them. he lie to them like a bengali. they give him a chit [a testimonial]. he make them a mock at the risk of his life i never would have go down to them after the pistol shot and then he say he be a fearful man. and he be a fearful man. i must get into the world again. 
at first his leg bend like bad pipe stem and the flood and rush of the sunlit air dazzle him. he squat by the white wall the mind rummage among the incident of the long dooli journey the lama s weakness and now that the stimulus of talk be remove his own self pity of which like the sick he have great store. the unnerve brain edge away from all the outside a a raw horse once rowelled sidle from the spur. it be enough amply enough that the spoil of the kilta be away off his hand out of his possession. he try to think of the lama to wonder why he have tumble into a brook but the bigness of the world see between the forecourt gate sweep link think aside. then he look upon the tree and the broad field with the thatch hut hide among crop look with strange eye unable to take up the size and proportion and use of thing star for a still half hour. all that while he felt though he could not put it into word that his soul be out of gear with it surround a cog wheel unconnected with any machinery just like the idle cog wheel of a cheap beheea sugar crusher lay by in a corner. the breeze fan over him the parrot shriek at him the noise of the populate house behind squabble order and reproof hit on dead ear. 
i be kim. i be kim. and what be kim. his soul repeat it again and again. 
he do not want to cry have never felt le like cry in his life but of a sudden easy stupid tear trickle down his nose and with an almost audible click he felt the wheel of his be lock up anew on the world without. thing that ride meaningless on the eyeball an instant before slide into proper proportion. road be mean to be walk upon house to be live in cattle to be drive field to be till and men and woman to be talk to. they be all real and true solidly plant upon the foot perfectly comprehensible clay of his clay neither more nor le. he shake himself like a dog with a flea in his ear and ramble out of the gate. say the sahiba to whom watchful eye report this move. let him go. i have do my share. mother earth must do the rest. when the holy one come back from meditation tell him. 
there stand an empty bullock cart on a little knoll half a mile away with a young banyan tree behind a look out a it be above some new plough level. and his eyelid bath in soft air grow heavy a he near it. the grind be good clean dust no new herbage that live be half way to death already but the hopeful dust that hold the seed of all life. he felt it between his toe pat it with his palm and joint by joint sigh luxuriously lay him down full length along in the shadow of the wooden pin cart. and mother earth be a faithful a the sahiba. she breathe through him to restore the poise he have lose lie so long on a cot cut off from her good current. his head lay powerless upon her breast and his open hand surrender to her strength. the many root tree above him and even the dead manhandle wood beside know what he seek a he himself do not know. hour upon hour he lay deep than sleep. 
towards even when the dust of return kine make all the horizon smoke come the lama and mahbub ali both afoot walk cautiously for the house have tell them where he have go. 
allah. what a fool s trick to play in open country. mutter the horse dealer. he could be shoot a hundred time but this be not the border. 
and say the lama repeat a many time tell tale never be such a chela. temperate kindly wise of ungrudging disposition a merry heart upon the road never forget learn truthful courteous. great be his reward. 
i know the boy a i have say. 
and he be all those thing. 
some of them but i have not yet find a red hat s charm for make him overly truthful. he ha certainly be well nurse. 
the sahiba be a heart of gold say the lama earnestly. she look upon him a her son. 
hmph. half hind seem that way dispose. i only wish to see that the boy have come to no harm and be a free agent. a thou knowest he and i be old friend in the first day of your pilgrimage together. 
that be a bond between u. the lama sit down. we be at the end of the pilgrimage. 
no thank to thee thine be not cut off for good and all a week back. i hear what the sahiba say to thee when we bore thee up on the cot. mahbub laugh and tug his newly dye beard. 
i be meditate upon other matter that tide. it be the hakim from dacca break my meditation. 
otherwise this be in pushtu for decency s sake thou wouldst have end thy meditation upon the sultry side of hell be an unbeliever and an idolater for all thy child s simplicity. but now red hat what be to be do. 
this very night the word come slowly vibrate with triumph this very night he will be a free a i be from all taint of sin assure a i be when he quit this body of freedom from the wheel of thing. i have a sign he lay his hand above the tear chart in his bosom that my time be short. but i shall have safeguard him throughout the year. remember i have reach knowledge a i tell thee only three night back. 
it must be true a the tirah priest say when i steal his cousin s wife that i be a sufi [a free thinker]. for here i sit say mahbub to himself drink in blasphemy unthinkable. i remember the tale. on that then he go to fannatu l adn [the garden of eden]. but how. wilt thou slay him or drown him in that wonderful river from which the babu drag thee. 
i be drag from no river say the lama simply. thou hast forget what befall. i find it by knowledge. 
oh ay. true stammer mahbub divide between high indignation and enormous mirth. i have forget the exact run of what happen. thou didst find it knowingly. 
and to say that i would take life be not a sin but a madness simple. my chela aid me to the river. it be his right to be cleanse from sin with me. 
ay he need cleanse. but afterwards old man afterwards. 
what matter under all the heaven. he be sure of nibban enlighten a i be. 
well say. i have a fear he might mount mohammed s horse and fly away. 
nay he must go forth a a teacher. 
aha. now i see. that be the right gait for the colt. certainly he must go forth a a teacher. he be somewhat urgently need a a scribe by the state for instance. 
to that end he be prepare. i acquire merit in that i give alms for his sake. a good deed doe not die. he aid me in my search. i aid him in his. just be the wheel o horse seller from the north. let him be a teacher. let him be a scribe what matter. he will have attain freedom at the end. the rest be illusion. 
what matter. when i must have him with me beyond balkh in six month. i come up with ten lame horse and three strong back men thank to that chicken of a babu to break a sick boy by force out of an old trot s house. it seem that i stand by while a young sahib be hoist into allah know what of an idolater s heaven by mean of old red hat. and i be reckon something of a player of the game myself. but the madman be fond of the boy. and i must be very reasonably mad too. 
what be the prayer. say the lama a the rough pushtu rumble into the red beard. 
no matter at all. but now i understand that the boy sure of paradise can yet enter government service my mind be easy. i must get to my horse. it grow dark. do not wake him. i have no wish to hear him call thee master. 
but he be my disciple. what else. 
he ha tell me. mahbub choke down his touch of spleen and rise laugh. i be not altogether of thy faith red hat if so small a matter concern thee. 
it be nothing say the lama. 
i think not. therefore it will not move thee sinless new wash and three part drown to boot when i call thee a good man a very good man. we have talk together some four or five evening now and for all i be a horse coper i can still a the say be see holiness beyond the leg of a horse. yea can see too how our friend of all the world put his hand in thine at the first. use him well and suffer him to return to the world a a teacher when thou hast bath his leg if that be the proper medicine for the colt. 
why not follow the way thyself and so accompany the boy. 
mahbub star stupefy at the magnificent insolence of the demand which across the border he would have pay with more than a blow. then the humour of it touch his worldly soul. 
softly softly one foot at a time a the lame geld go over the umballa jump. i may come to paradise late i have working that way great motion and i owe them to thy simplicity. thou hast never lie. 
what need. 
o allah hear him. what need in this thy world. nor ever harm a man. 
once with a pencase before i be wise. 
so. i think the good of thee. thy teaching be good. thou hast turn one man that i know from the path of strife. he laugh immensely. he come here open mind to commit a dacoity [a house robbery with violence]. yes to cut rob kill and carry off what he desire. 
a great foolishness. 
oh. black shame too. so he think after he have see thee and a few others male and female. so he abandon it. and now he go to beat a big fat babu man. 
i do not understand. 
allah forbid it. some men be strong in knowledge red hat. thy strength be strong still. keep it i think thou wilt. if the boy be not a good servant pull his ear off. 
with a hitch of his broad bokhariot belt the pathan swagger off into the gloaming and the lama come down from his cloud so far a to look at the broad back. 
that person lack courtesy and be deceive by the shadow of appearance. but he speak well of my chela who now enter upon his reward. let me make the prayer. wake o fortunate above all bear of woman. wake. it be find. 
kim come up from those deep well and the lama attend his yawn pleasure. duly snap finger to head off evil spirit. 
i have sleep a hundred year. where. holy one hast thou be here long. i go out to look for thee but he laugh drowsily i sleep by the way. i be all well now. hast thou eat. let u go to the house. it be many day since i tend thee. and the sahiba feed thee well. who shampoo thy leg. what of the weakness the belly and the neck and the beat in the ear. 
go all go. dost thou not know. 
i know nothing but that i have not see thee in a monkey s age. know what. 
strange the knowledge do not reach out to thee when all my thought be theeward. 
i cannot see the face but the voice be like a gong. ha the sahiba make a young man of thee by her cookery. 
he peer at the cross legged figure outline jet black against the lemon colour drift of light. so doe the stone bodhisat sit who look down upon the patent self register turnstile of the lahore museum. 
the lama hold his peace. except for the click of the rosary and a faint clop clop of mahbub s retreat foot the soft smoky silence of even in india wrap them close. 
hear me. i bring news. 
but let u. 
out shoot the long yellow hand compel silence. kim tuck his foot under his robe edge obediently. 
hear me. i bring news. the search be finish. come now the reward. thus. when we be among the hill i live on thy strength till the young branch bow and nigh break. when we come out of the hill i be trouble for thee and for other matter which i hold in my heart. the boat of my soul lack direction. i could not see into the cause of thing. so i give thee over to the virtuous woman altogether. i take no food. i drink no water. still i saw not the way. they press food upon me and cry at my shut door. so i remove myself to a hollow under a tree. i take no food. i take no water. i sit in meditation two day and two night abstract my mind. inbreathing and outbreathing in the require manner. upon the second night so great be my reward the wise soul loose itself from the silly body and go free. this i have never before attain though i have stand on the threshold of it. consider for it be a marvel. 
a marvel indeed. two day and two night without food. where be the sahiba. say kim under his breath. 
yea my soul go free and wheel like an eagle saw indeed that there be no teshoo lama nor any other soul. a a drop draw to water so my soul draw near to the great soul which be beyond all thing. at that point exalt in contemplation i saw all hind from ceylon in the sea to the hill and my own paint rock at such zen. i saw every camp and village to the least where we have ever rest. i saw them at one time and in one place. for they be within the soul. by this i know the soul have pass beyond the illusion of time and space and of thing. by this i know that i be free. i saw thee lie in thy cot and i saw thee fall downhill under the idolater at one time in one place in my soul which a i say have touch the great soul. also i saw the stupid body of teshoo lama lie down and the hakim from dacca kneel beside shout in it ear. then my soul be all alone and i saw nothing for i be all thing have reach the great soul. and i meditate a thousand thousand year passionless well aware of the cause of all thing. then a voice cry. what shall come to the boy if thou art dead. and i be shake back and forth in myself with pity for thee. and i say. i will return to my chela l he miss the way. upon this my soul which be the soul of teshoo lama withdraw itself from the great soul with striving and yearning and retch and agony not to be tell. a the egg from the fish a the fish from the water a the water from the cloud a the cloud from the thick air so put forth so leap out so draw away so fume up the soul of teshoo lama from the great soul. then a voice cry. the river. take heed to the river. and i look down upon all the world which be a i have see it before one in time one in place and i saw plainly the river of the arrow at my foot. at that hour my soul be hamper by some evil or other whereof i be not wholly cleanse and it lay upon my arm and coil round my waist. but i put it aside and i cast forth a an eagle in my flight for the very place of the river. i push aside world upon world for thy sake. i saw the river below me the river of the arrow and descend the water of it close over me. and behold i be again in the body of teshoo lama but free from sin and the hakim from decca bore up my head in the water of the river. it be here. it be behind the mango tope here even here. 
allah kerim. oh well that the babu be by. wast thou very wet. 
why should i regard. i remember the hakim be concern for the body of teshoo lama. he hale it out of the holy water in his hand and there come afterwards thy horse seller from the north with a cot and men and they put the body on the cot and bore it up to the sahiba s house. 
what say the sahiba. 
i be meditate in that body and do not hear. so thus the search be end. for the merit that i have acquire the river of the arrow be here. it break forth at our foot a i have say. i have find it. son of my soul i have wrench my soul back from the threshold of freedom to free thee from all sin a i be free and sinless. just be the wheel. certain be our deliverance. come. 
he cross his hand on his lap and smile a a man may who ha win salvation for himself and his beloved. 
