the bridge builder. 
by rudyard kipling. 
the least that findlayson of the public work department expect be a c. i. e. he dream of a c. s. i. indeed his friend tell him that he deserve more. for three year he have endure heat and cold disappointment discomfort danger and disease with responsibility almost to top heavy for one pair of shoulder. and day by day through that time the great kashi bridge over the gang have grow under his charge. now in le than three month if all go well his excellency the viceroy would open the bridge in state an archbishop would bless it and the first trainload of soldier would come over it and there would be speech. 
findlayson c. e. sit in his trolley on a construction line that run along one of the main revetment the huge stone face bank that flare away north and south for three mile on either side of the river and permit himself to think of the end. with it approach his work be one mile and three quarter in length. a lattice girder bridge truss with the findlayson truss stand on seven and twenty brick pier. each one of those pier be twenty four foot in diameter cap with red agra stone and sink eighty foot below the shift sand of the gang bed. above them be a railway line fifteen foot broad. above that again a cart road of eighteen foot flank with footpath. at either end rise tower of red brick loopholed for musketry and pierce for big gun and the ramp of the road be be push forward to their haunch. the raw earth end be crawl and alive with hundred upon hundred of tiny ass climb out of the yawn borrow pit below with sackful of stuff. and the hot afternoon air be fill with the noise of hoof the rattle of the driver stick and the swish and roll down of the dirt. the river be very low and on the dazzle white sand between the three centre pier stand squat crib of railway sleeper fill within and daub without with mud to support the last of the girder a those be rivet up. in the little deep water leave by the drought an overhead crane travel to and fro along it spile pier jerk section of iron into place snort and back and grunt a an elephant grunt in the timberyard. riveter by the hundred swarm about the lattice side work and the iron roof of the railway line hang from invisible stag under the belly of the girder cluster round the throat of the pier and ride on the overhang of the footpath stanchion. their fire pot and the spurt of flame that answer each hammer stroke show no more than pale yellow in the sun s glare. east and west and north and south the construction train rattle and shriek up and down the embankment the pile truck of brown and white stone bang behind them till the side board be unpin and with a roar and a grumble a few thousand ton more material be fling out to hold the river in place. 
findlayson c. e. turn on his trolley and look over the face of the country that he have change for seven mile around. look back on the hum village of five thousand work men. up stream and down along the vista of spur and sand. across the river to the far pier lessen in the haze. overhead to the guard tower and only he know how strong those be and with a sigh of contentment saw that his work be good. there stand his bridge before him in the sunlight lack only a few week work on the girder of the three middle pier his bridge raw and ugly a original sin but pukka permanent to endure when all memory of the builder yea even of the splendid findlayson truss ha perish. practically the thing be do. 
hitchcock his assistant canter along the line on a little switch tail kabuli pony who through long practice could have trot securely over trestle and nod to his chief. 
all but say he with a smile. 
i ve be think about it the senior answer. not half a bad job for two men be it. 
one and a half. gad what a cooper s hill cub i be when i come on the work. hitchcock felt very old in the crowd experience of the past three year that have teach him power and responsibility. 
you be rather a colt say findlayson. i wonder how you ll like go back to office work when this job s over. 
i shall hate it. say the young man and a he go on his eye follow findlayson s and he mutter isn t it damn good. 
i think we ll go up the service together findlayson say to himself. you re too good a youngster to waste on another man. cub thou wast. assistant thou art. personal assistant and at simla thou shalt be if any credit come to me out of the business. 
indeed the burden of the work have fall altogether on findlayson and his assistant the young man whom he have choose because of his rawness to break to his own need. there be labour contractor by the half hundred fitter and riveter european borrow from the railway workshop with perhaps twenty white and half caste subordinate to direct under direction the bevy of workman but none know good than these two who trust each other how the underling be not to be trust. they have be try many time in sudden crisis by slip of boom by break of tackle failure of crane and the wrath of the river but no stress have bring to light any man among men whom findlayson and hitchcock would have honour by work a remorselessly a they work them self. findlayson think it over from the begin. the month of office work destroy at a blow when the government of india at the last moment add two foot to the width of the bridge under the impression that bridge be cut out of paper and so bring to ruin at least half an acre of calculation and hitchcock new to disappointment bury his head in his arm and weep. the heart break delay over the fill of the contract in england. the futile correspondence hint at great wealth of commission if one only one rather doubtful consignment be pass. the war that follow the refusal. the careful polite obstruction at the other end that follow the war till young hitchcock put one month s leave to another month and borrow ten day from findlayson spend his poor little saving of a year in a wild dash to london and there a his own tongue assert and the late consignment prove put the fear of god into a man so great that he fear only parliament and say so till hitchcock work with him across his own dinner table and he fear the kashi bridge and all who speak in it name. then there be the cholera that come in the night to the village by the bridge work. and after the cholera smite the small pox. the fever they have always with them. hitchcock have be appoint a magistrate of the third class with whip power for the good government of the community and findlayson watch him wield his power temperately learn what to overlook and what to look after. it be a long long reverie and it cover storm sudden freshet death in every manner and shape violent and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that know it should be busy on other thing. drought sanitation finance. birth wed burial and riot in the village of twenty war caste. argument expostulation persuasion and the blank despair that a man go to bed upon thankful that his rifle be all in piece in the gun case. behind everything rise the black frame of the kashi bridge plate by plate girder by girder span by span and each pier of it recall hitchcock the all round man who have stand by his chief without fail from the very first to this last. 
so the bridge be two men s work unless one count peroo a peroo certainly count himself. he be a lascar a kharva from bulsar familiar with every port between rockhampton and london who have rise to the rank of serang on the british india boat but weary of routine muster and clean clothe have throw up the service and go inland where men of his calibre be sure of employment. for his knowledge of tackle and the handle of heavy weight peroo be worth almost any price he might have choose to put upon his service. but custom decree the wage of the overhead men and peroo be not within many silver piece of his proper value. neither run water nor extreme height make him afraid. and a an ex serang he know how to hold authority. no piece of iron be so big or so badly place that peroo could not devise a tackle to lift it a loose end sag arrangement rig with a scandalous amount of talk but perfectly equal to the work in hand. it be peroo who have save the girder of number seven pier from destruction when the new wire rope jam in the eye of the crane and the huge plate tilt in it sling threaten to slide out sideways. then the native workman lose their head with great shouting and hitchcock s right arm be break by a fall t plate and he button it up in his coat and swoon and come to and direct for four hour till peroo from the top of the crane report all s well and the plate swing home. there be no one like peroo serang to lash and guy and hold to control the donkey engine to hoist a fall locomotive craftily out of the borrow pit into which it have tumble. to strip and dive if need be to see how the concrete block round the pier stand the scour of mother gunga or to adventure upstream on a monsoon night and report on the state of the embankment facing. he would interrupt the field council of findlayson and hitchcock without fear till his wonderful english or his still more wonderful linguafranca half portuguese and half malay run out and he be force to take string and show the knot that he would recommend. he control his own gang of tackle men mysterious relative from kutch mandvi gather month by month and try to the uttermost. no consideration of family or kin allow peroo to keep weak hand or a giddy head on the pay roll. my honour be the honour of this bridge he would say to the about to be dismiss. what do i care for your honour. go and work on a steamer. that be all you be fit for. 
the little cluster of hut where he and his gang live centre round the tattered dwell of a sea priest one who have never set foot on black water but have be choose a ghostly counsellor by two generation of sea rover all unaffected by port mission or those creed which be thrust upon sailor by agency along thames bank. the priest of the lascar have nothing to do with their caste or indeed with anything at all. he eat the offering of his church and sleep and smoke and sleep again for say peroo who have hale him a thousand mile inland he be a very holy man. he never care what you eat so long a you do not eat beef and that be good because on land we worship shiva we kharvas. but at sea on the kumpani s boat we attend strictly to the order of the burra malum [the first mate] and on this bridge we observe what finlinson sahib say. 
finlinson sahib have that day give order to clear the scaffold from the guard tower on the right bank and peroo with his mate be cast loose and lower down the bamboo pole and plank a swiftly a ever they have whip the cargo out of a coaster. 
from his trolley he could hear the whistle of the serang s silver pipe and the creek and clatter of the pulley. peroo be stand on the top most cop of the tower clothe in the blue dungaree of his abandon service and a findlayson motion to him to be careful for his be no life to throw away he grip the last pole and shade his eye ship fashion answer with the long draw wail of the fo c sle lookout. ham dekhta hai. i be look out. 
findlayson laugh and then sigh. it be year since he have see a steamer and he be sick for home. a his trolley pass under the tower peroo descend by a rope ape fashion and cry. it look well now sahib. our bridge be all but do. what think you mother gunga will say when the rail run over. 
she ha say little so far. it be never mother gunga that delay u. 
there be always time for her. and none the le there ha be delay. ha the sahib forget last autumn s flood when the stone boat be sink without warn or only a half day s warn. 
yes but nothing save a big flood could hurt u now. the spur be hold well on the west bank. 
mother gunga eat great allowance. there be always room for more stone on the revetment. i tell this to the chota sahib he mean hitchcock and he laugh. 
no matter peroo. another year thou wilt be able to build a bridge in thine own fashion. 
the lascar grin. then it will not be in this way with stonework sink under water a the qyetta be sink. i like sus sus pen sheen bridge that fly from bank to bank with one big step like a gang plank. then no water can hurt. when doe the lord sahib come to open the bridge. 
in three month when the weather be cool. 
ho. ho. he be like the burra malum. he sleep below while the work be be do. then he come upon the quarter deck and touch with his finger and say. this be not clean. dam jibboonwallah. 
but the lord sahib doe not call me a dam jibboonwallah peroo. 
no sahib. but he doe not come on deck till the work be all finish. even the burra malum of the nerbudda say once at tuticorin. 
bah. go. i be busy. 
i also. say peroo with an unshaken countenance. may i take the light dinghy now and row along the spur. 
to hold them with thy hand. they be i think sufficiently heavy. 
nay sahib. it be thus. at sea on the black water we have room to be blow up and down without care. here we have no room at all. look you we have put the river into a dock and run her between stone sill. 
findlayson smile at the we. 
we have bitted and bridle her. she be not like the sea that can beat against a soft beach. she be mother gunga in iron. his voice fell a little. 
peroo thou hast be up and down the world more even than i. speak true talk now. how much dost thou in thy heart believe of mother gunga. 
all that our priest say. london be london sahib. sydney be sydney and port darwin be port darwin. also mother gunga be mother gunga and when i come back to her bank i know this and worship. in london i do poojah to the big temple by the river for the sake of the god within. yes i will not take the cushion in the dinghy. 
findlayson mount his horse and trot to the shed of a bungalow that he share with his assistant. the place have become home to him in the last three year. he have grill in the heat sweat in the rain and shiver with fever under the rude thatch roof. the lime wash beside the door be cover with rough drawing and formula and the sentry path tread in the mat of the verandah show where he have walk alone. there be no eight hour limit to an engineer s work and the even meal with hitchcock be eat boot and spur. over their cigar they listen to the hum of the village a the gang come up from the river bed and the light begin to twinkle. 
peroo ha go up the spur in your dinghy. he s take a couple of nephew with him and he s loll in the stern like a commodore say hitchcock. 
that s all right. he s get something on his mind. you d think that ten year in the british india boat would have knock most of his religion out of him. 
so it ha say hitchcock chuckle. i overhear him the other day in the middle of a most atheistical talk with that fat old guru of theirs. peroo deny the efficacy of prayer. and want the guru to go to sea and watch a gale out with him and see if he could stop a monsoon. 
all the same if you carry off his guru he d leave u like a shoot. he be yarn away to me about pray to the dome of st. paul s when he be in london. 
he tell me that the first time he go into the engine room of a steamer when he be a boy he pray to the low pressure cylinder. 
not half a bad thing to pray to either. he s propitiate his own god now and he want to know what mother gunga will think of a bridge be run across her. who s there. a shadow darken the doorway and a telegram be put into hitchcock s hand. 
she ought to be pretty well use to it by this time. only a tar. it ought to be ralli s answer about the new rivet. great heaven. hitchcock jump to his foot. 
what be it. say the senior and take the form. that s what mother gunga think be it he say read. keep cool young un. we ve get all our work cut out for u. let s see. muir wire half an hour ago. flood on the ramgunga. look out. well that give u one two nine and a half for the flood to reach melipur ghaut and seven s sixteen and a half to lataoli say fifteen hour before it come down to u. 
curse that hill feed sewer of a ramgunga. findlayson this be two month before anything could have be expect and the leave bank be litter up with stuff still. two full month before the time. 
that s why it come. i ve only know indian river for five and twenty year and i don t pretend to understand. here come another tar. findlayson open the telegram. cockran this time from the gang canal. heavy rain here. bad. he might have save the last word. well we don t want to know any more. we ve get to work the gang all night and clean up the riverbed. you ll take the east bank and work out to meet me in the middle. get everything that float below the bridge. we shall have quite enough river craft come down adrift anyhow without let the stone boat ram the pier. what have you get on the east bank that need look after. 
pontoon one big pontoon with the overhead crane on it. t other overhead crane on the mend pontoon with the cart road rivet from twenty to twenty three pier two construction line and a turn spur. the pilework must take it chance say hitchcock. 
all right. roll up everything you can lay hand on. we ll give the gang fifteen minute more to eat their grub. 
close to the verandah stand a big night gong never use except for flood or fire in the village. hitchcock have call for a fresh horse and be off to his side of the bridge when findlayson take the cloth bind stick and smite with the rub stroke that bring out the full thunder of the metal. 
long before the last rumble cease every night gong in the village have take up the warn. to these be add the hoarse scream of conch in the little temple. the throb of drum and tom tom. and from the european quarter where the riveter live mccartney s bugle a weapon of offence on sunday and festival bray desperately call to stable. engine after engine toil home along the spur at the end of her day s work whistle in answer till the whistle be answer from the far bank. then the big gong thunder thrice for a sign that it be flood and not fire. conch drum and whistle echo the call and the village quiver to the sound of bare foot run upon soft earth. the order in all case be to stand by the day s work and wait instruction. the gang pour by in the dusk. men stop to knot a loin cloth or fasten a sandal. gang foreman shout to their subordinate a they run or pause by the tool issue shed for bar and mattock. locomotive creep down their track wheel deep in the crowd. till the brown torrent disappear into the dusk of the river bed race over the pilework swarm along the lattice cluster by the crane and stand still each man in his place. 
then the trouble beat of the gong carry the order to take up everything and bear it beyond high water mark and the flare lamp break out by the hundred between the web of dull iron a the riveter begin a night s work race against the flood that be to come. the girder of the three centre pier those that stand on the crib be all but in position. they need just a many rivet a could be drive into them for the flood would assuredly wash out their support and the ironwork would settle down on the cap of stone if they be not block at the end. a hundred crowbar strain at the sleeper of the temporary line that feed the unfinished pier. it be heave up in length load into truck and back up the bank beyond flood level by the groan locomotive. the tool shed on the sand melt away before the attack of shout army and with them go the stack rank of government store iron hound box of rivet plier cutter duplicate part of the rivet machine spare pump and chain. the big crane would be the last to be shift for she be hoist all the heavy stuff up to the main structure of the bridge. the concrete block on the fleet of stone boat be drop overside where there be any depth of water to guard the pier and the empty boat themselves be pole under the bridge down stream. it be here that peroo s pipe shrill loud for the first stroke of the big gong have bring the dinghy back at race speed and peroo and his people be strip to the waist work for the honour and credit which be good than life. 
i know she would speak he cry. i know but the telegraph give u good warn. o son of unthinkable beget child of unspeakable shame be we here for the look of the thing. it be two foot of wire rope fray at the end and it do wonder a peroo leap from gunnel to gunnel shout the language of the sea. 
findlayson be more trouble for the stoneboats than anything else. mccartney with his gang be block up the end of the three doubtful span but boat adrift if the flood chance to be a high one might endanger the girder. and there be a very fleet in the shrink channel. 
get them behind the swell of the guardtower he shout down to peroo. it will be dead water there. get them below the bridge. 
accha. [very good. ] i know. we be moor them with wire rope be the answer. heh. listen to the chota sahib. he be work hard. 
from across the river come an almost continuous whistle of locomotive back by the rumble of stone. hitchcock at the last minute be spend a few hundred more truck of tarakee stone in reinforce his spur and embankment. 
the bridge challenge mother gunga say peroo with a laugh. but when she talk i know whose voice will be the loud. 
for hour the naked men work scream and shout under the light. it be a hot moonless night. the end of it be darken by cloud and a sudden squall that make findlayson very grave. 
she move. say peroo just before the dawn. mother gunga be awake. hear. he dip his hand over the side of a boat and the current mumble on it. a little wave hit the side of a pier with a crisp slap. 
six hour before her time say findlayson mop his forehead savagely. 
now we can t depend on anything. we d good clear all hand out of the riverbed. 
again the big gong beat and a second time there be the rush of naked foot on earth and ring iron. the clatter of tool cease. in the silence men hear the dry yawn of water crawl over thirsty sand. 
foreman after foreman shout to findlayson who have post himself by the guard tower that his section of the river bed have be clean out and when the last voice drop findlayson hurry over the bridge till the iron plat of the permanent way give place to the temporary plank walk over the three centre pier and there he meet hitchcock. 
all clear your side. say findlayson. the whisper ring in the box of lattice work. 
yes and the east channel s fill now. we re utterly out of our reckon. when be this thing down on u. 
there s no say. she s fill a fast a she can. look. findlayson point to the plank below his foot where the sand burn and defile by month of work be begin to whisper and fizz. 
what order. say hitchcock. 
call the roll count store sit on your hunker and pray for the bridge. that s all i can think of good night. don t risk your life try to fish out anything that may go downstream. 
oh i ll be a prudent a you be. night. heaven how she s fill. here s the rain in earnest. 
findlayson pick his way back to his bank sweep the last of mccartney s riveter before him. the gang have spread themselves along the embankment regardless of the cold rain of the dawn and there they wait for the flood. only peroo keep his men together behind the swell of the guard tower where the stone boat lay tie fore and aft with hawser wire rope and chain. 
a shrill wail run along the line grow to a yell half fear and half wonder. the face of the river whiten from bank to hank between the stone facing and the far away spur go out in spout of foam. mother gunga have come bank high in haste and a wall of chocolate colour water be her messenger. there be a shriek above the roar of the water the complaint of the span come down on their block a the crib be whirl out from under their belly. the stone boat groan and grind each other in the eddy that swing round the abutment and their clumsy mast rise high and high against the dim sky line. 
before she be shut between these wall we know what she would do. now she be thus cramp god only know what she will do. say peroo watch the furious turmoil round the guard tower. ohe. fight then. fight hard for it be thus that a woman wear herself out. 
but mother gunga would not fight a peroo desire. after the first down stream plunge there come no more wall of water but the river lift herself bodily a a snake when she drink in midsummer pluck and finger along the revetment and bank up behind the pier till even findlayson begin to recalculate the strength of his work. 
when day come the village gasp. only last night men say turn to each other it be a a town in the river bed. look now. 
and they look and wonder afresh at the deep water the race water that lick the throat of the pier. the farther bank be veil by rain into which the bridge run out and vanish. the spur up stream be mark by no more than eddy and spout and down stream the pen river once free of her guide line have spread like a sea to the horizon. then hurry by roll in the water dead men and ox together with here and there a patch of thatch roof that melt when it touch a pier. 
big flood say peroo and findlayson nod. it be a big a flood a he have any wish to watch. his bridge would stand what be upon her now but not very much more and if by any of a thousand chance there happen to be a weakness in the embankment mother gunga would carry his honour to the sea with the other raffle. bad of all there be nothing to do except to sit still. and findlayson sit still under his macintosh till his helmet become pulp on his head and his boot be over ankle in mire. he take no count of time for the river be mark the hour inch by inch and foot by foot along the embankment and he listen numb and hungry to the strain of the stone boat the hollow thunder under the pier and the hundred noise that make the full note of a flood. once a drip servant bring him food but he could not eat. and once he think that he hear a faint toot from a locomotive across the river and then he smile. the bridge s failure would hurt his assistant not a little but hitchcock be a young man with his big work yet to do. for himself the crash mean everything everything that make a hard life worth the live. they would say the men of his own profession. he remember the half pity thing that he himself have say when lockhart s new waterworks burst and break down in brick heap and sludge and lockhart s spirit break in him and he die. he remember what he himself have say when the sumao bridge go out in the big cyclone by the sea. and most he remember poor hartopp s face three week late when the shame have mark it. his bridge be twice the size of hartopp s and it carry the findlayson truss a well a the new pier shoe the findlayson bolt shoe. there be no excuse in his service. government might listen perhaps but his own kind would judge him by his bridge a that stand or fell. he go over it in his head plate by plate span by span brick by brick pier by pier remember compare estimate and recalculate l there should be any mistake. and through the long hour and through the flight of formula that dance and wheel before him a cold fear would come to pinch his heart. his side of the sum be beyond question. but what man know mother gunga s arithmetic. even a he be make all sure by the multiplication table the river might be scoop a pot hole to the very bottom of any one of those eighty foot pier that carry his reputation. again a servant come to him with food but his mouth be dry and he could only drink and return to the decimal in his brain. and the river be still rise. peroo in a mat shelter coat crouch at his foot watch now his face and now the face of the river but say nothing. 
at last the lascar rise and flounder through the mud towards the village but he be careful to leave an ally to watch the boat. 
presently he return most irreverently drive before him the priest of his creed a fat old man with a grey beard that whip the wind with the wet cloth that blow over his shoulder. never be see so lamentable a guru. 
what good be offering and little kerosene lamp and dry grain shout peroo if squat in the mud be all that thou canst do. thou hast deal long with the god when they be content and well wish. now they be angry. speak to them. 
what be a man against the wrath of god. whine the priest cower a the wind take him. let me go to the temple and i will pray there. 
son of a pig pray here. be there no return for salt fish and curry powder and dry onion. call aloud. tell mother gunga we have have enough. bid her be still for the night. i cannot pray but i have be serve in the kumpani s boat and when men do not obey my order i a flourish of the wire rope colt round the sentence and the priest break free from his disciple flee to the village. 
fat pig. say peroo. after all that we have do for him. when the flood be down i will see to it that we get a new guru. finlinson sahib it darken for night now and since yesterday nothing ha be eat. be wise sahib. no man can endure watch and great think on an empty belly. lie down sahib. the river will do what the river will do. 
the bridge be mine. i cannot leave it. 
wilt thou hold it up with thy hand then. say peroo laugh. 
i be trouble for my boat and sheer before the flood come. now we be in the hand of the god. the sahib will not eat and lie down. take these then. they be meat and good toddy together and they kill all weariness besides the fever that follow the rain. i have eat nothing else to day at all. 
he take a small tin tobacco box from his sodden waist belt and thrust it into findlayson s hand say. nay do not be afraid. it be no more than opium clean malwa opium. 
findlayson shake two or three of the dark brown pellet into his hand and hardly know what he do swallow them. the stuff be at least a good guard against fever the fever that be creep upon him out of the wet mud and he have see what peroo could do in the stew mist of autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box. 
peroo nod with bright eye. in a little in a little the sahib will find that he think well again. i too will he dive into his treasure box resettle the rain coat over his head and squat down to watch the boat. it be too dark now to see beyond the first pier and the night seem to have give the river new strength. findlayson stand with his chin on his chest think. there be one point about one of the pier the seventh that he have not fully settle in his mind. the figure would not shape themselves to the eye except one by one and at enormous interval of time. there be a sound rich and mellow in his ear like the deep note of a double bass an entrance sound upon which he ponder for several hour a it seem. then peroo be at his elbow shout that a wire hawser have snap and the stone boat be loose. findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out fanwise to a long draw shriek of wire strain across gunnel. 
a tree hit them. they will all go cry peroo. the main hawser ha part. what doe the sahib do. 
an immensely complex plan have suddenly flash into findlayson s mind. he saw the rope run from boat to boat in straight line and angle each rope a line of white fire. but there be one rope which be the master rope. he could see that rope. if he could pull it once it be absolutely and mathematically certain that the disorder fleet would reassemble itself in the backwater behind the guard tower. but why he wonder be peroo cling so desperately to his waist a he hasten down the bank. it be necessary to put the lascar aside gently and slowly because it be necessary to save the boat and further to demonstrate the extreme ease of the problem that look so difficult. and then but it be of no conceivable importance a wire rope race through his hand burn it the high bank disappear and with it all the slowly disperse factor of the problem. he be sit in the rainy darkness sit in a boat that spin like a top and peroo be stand over him. 
i have forget say the lascar slowly that to those fast and unused the opium be bad than any wine. those who die in gunga go to the god. still i have no desire to present myself before such great one. can the sahib swim. 
what need. he can fly fly a swiftly a the wind be the thick answer. 
he be mad. mutter peroo under his breath. and he throw me aside like a bundle of dung cake. well he will not know his death. the boat cannot live an hour here even if she strike nothing. it be not good to look at death with a clear eye. 
he refresh himself again from the tin box squat down in the bow of the reel peg and stitch craft star through the mist at the nothing that be there. a warm drowsiness creep over findlayson the chief engineer whose duty be with his bridge. the heavy raindrop strike him with a thousand tingle little thrill and the weight of all time since time be make hang heavy on his eyelid. he think and perceive that he be perfectly secure for the water be so solid that a man could surely step out upon it and stand still with his leg apart to keep his balance this be the most important point would be bear with great and easy speed to the shore. but yet a good plan come to him. it need only an exertion of will for the soul to hurl the body ashore a wind drive paper to waft it kite fashion to the bank. thereafter the boat spin dizzily suppose the high wind get under the free body. would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the far away sand or would it duck about beyond control through all eternity. findlayson grip the gunnel to anchor himself for it seem that he be on the edge of take the flight before he have settle all his plan. opium ha more effect on the white man than the black. peroo be only comfortably indifferent to accident. she cannot live he grunt. her seam open already. if she be even a dinghy with oar we could have ride it out. but a box with hole be no good. finlinson sahib she fill. 
accha. i be go away. come thou also. in his mind findlayson have already escape from the boat and be circle high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot. his body he be really sorry for it gross helplessness lay in the stern the water rush about it knee. 
how very ridiculous. he say to himself from his eyrie that be findlayson chief of the kashi bridge. the poor beast be go to be drown too. drown when it s close to shore. i m i m on shore already. why doesn t it come along. 
to his intense disgust he find his soul back in his body again and that body splutter and choke in deep water. the pain of the reunion be atrocious but it be necessary also to fight for the body. he be conscious of grasp wildly at wet sand and stride prodigiously a one stride in a dream to keep foothold in the swirl water till at last he haul himself clear of the hold of the river and drop pant on wet earth. 
not this night say peroo in his ear. the god have protect u. the lascar move his foot cautiously and they rustle among dry stump. this be some island of last year s indigo crop he go on. we shall find no men here. but have great care sahib. all the snake of a hundred mile have be flood out. here come the lightning on the heel of the wind. now we shall be able to look. but walk carefully. 
findlayson be far and far beyond any fear of snake or indeed any merely human emotion. he saw after he have rub the water from his eye with an immense clearness and tread so it seem to himself with world encompass stride. somewhere in the night of time he have build a bridge a bridge that span illimitable level of shin sea. but the deluge have sweep it away leave this one island under heaven for findlayson and his companion sole survivor of the breed of man. 
an incessant lightning fork and blue show all that there be to be see on the little patch in the flood a clump of thorn a clump of sway creak bamboo and a grey gnarl peepul overshadow a hindoo shrine from whose dome float a tattered red flag. the holy man whose summer rest place it be have long since abandon it and the weather have break the red daub image of his god. the two men stumble heavy limbed and heavy eye over the ash of a brick set cook place and drop down under the shelter of the branch while the rain and river roar together. 
the stump of the indigo crackle and there be a smell of cattle a a huge and drip brahminee bull shoulder his way under the tree. the flash reveal the trident mark of shiva on his flank the insolence of head and hump the luminous stag like eye the brow crown with a wreath of sodden marigold bloom and the silky dewlap that almost sweep the grind. there be a noise behind him of other beast come up from the flood line through the thicket a sound of heavy foot and deep breathe. 
here be more beside ourselves say findlayson his head against the treepole look through half shut eye wholly at ease. 
truly say peroo thickly and no small one. 
what be they then. i do not see clearly. 
the god. who else. look. 
ah true. the god surely the god. findlayson smile a his head fell forward on his chest. peroo be eminently right. after the flood who should be alive in the land except the god that make it the god to whom his village pray nightly the god who be in all men s mouth and about all men s way. he could not raise his head or stir a finger for the trance that hold him and peroo be smile vacantly at the lightning. 
the bull pause by the shrine his head lower to the damp earth. a green parrot in the branch preen his wet wing and scream against the thunder a the circle under the tree fill with the shift shadow of beast. there be a black buck at the bull s heel such a buck a findlayson in his far away life upon earth might have see in dream a buck with a royal head ebon back silver belly and gleam straight horn. beside him her head bow to the grind the green eye burn under the heavy brow with restless tail switch the dead grass pace a tigress full belly and deep jowled. 
the bull crouch beside the shrine and there leap from the darkness a monstrous grey ape who seat himself man wise in the place of the fall image and the rain spill like jewel from the hair of his neck and shoulder. other shadow come and go behind the circle among them a drunken man flourish staff and drink bottle. then a hoarse bellow break out from near the grind. the flood lessen even now it cry. hour by hour the water fall and their bridge still stand. 
my bridge say findlayson to himself that must be very old work now. what have the god to do with my bridge. 
his eye roll in the darkness follow the roar. a mugger the blunt nose ford haunt mugger of the gang draggle herself before the beast lash furiously to right and leave with her tail. 
they have make it too strong for me. in all this night i have only tear away a handful of plank. the wall stand. the tower stand. they have chain my flood and the river be not free any more. heavenly one take this yoke away. give me clear water between bank and bank. it be i mother gunga that speak. the justice of the god. deal me the justice of the god. 
what say i. whisper peroo. this be in truth a punchayet of the god. now we know that all the world be dead save you and i sahib. 
the parrot scream and flutter again and the tigress her ear flat to her head snarl wickedly. 
somewhere in the shadow a great trunk and gleam tusk sway to and fro and a low gurgle break the silence that follow on the snarl. 
we be here say a deep voice the great one. one only and very many. shiv my father be here with indra. kali ha speak already. hanuman listen also. 
kashi be without her kotwal to night shout the man with the drink bottle fling his staff to the grind while the island ring to the bay of hound. give her the justice of the god. 
ye be still when they pollute my water the great crocodile bellow. ye make no sign when my river be trap between the wall. i have no help save my own strength and that fail the strength of mother gunga fail before their guard tower. what could i do. i have do everything. finish now heavenly one. 
i bring the death. i ride the spot sick ness from hut to hut of their workman and yet they would not cease. a nose slitten hide wear as lame scissor legged and gall limp forward. i cast the death at them out of my nostril but they would not cease. 
peroo would have move but the opium lay heavy upon him. 
bah. he say spit. here be sitala herself. mata the small pox. ha the sahib a handkerchief to put over his face. 
little help. they feed me the corps for a month and i fling them out on my sand bar but their work go forward. demon they be and son of demon. and ye leave mother gunga alone for their fire carriage to make a mock of the justice of the god on the bridge builder. 
the bull turn the cud in his mouth and answer slowly. if the justice of the god catch all who make a mock of holy thing there would be many dark altar in the land mother. 
but this go beyond a mock say the tigress dart forward a grip paw. thou knowest shiv and ye too heavenly one. ye know that they have defile gunga. surely they must come to the destroyer. let indra judge. 
the buck make no movement a he answer. how long ha this evil be. 
three year a men count year say the mugger close press to the earth. 
doe mother gunga die then in a year that she be so anxious to see vengeance now. the deep sea be where she run but yesterday and to morrow the sea shall cover her again a the god count that which men call time. can any say that this their bridge endure till to morrow. say the buck. 
there be a long hush and in the clear of the storm the full moon stand up above the drip tree. 
judge ye then say the river sullenly. i have speak my shame. the flood fall still. i can do no more. 
for my own part it be the voice of the great ape seat within the shrine it plea me well to watch these men remember that i also build no small bridge in the world s youth. 
they say too snarl the tiger that these men come of the wreck of thy army hanuman and therefore thou hast aid. 
they toil a my army toil in lanka and they believe that their toil endure. indra be too high but shiv thou knowest how the land be thread with their fire carriage. 
yea i know say the bull. their god instruct them in the matter. 
a laugh run round the circle. 
their god. what should their god know. they be bear yesterday and those that make them be scarcely yet cold say the mugger. to morrow their god will die. 
ho. say peroo. mother gunga talk good talk. i tell that to the padre sahib who preach on the mombassa and he ask the burra malum to put me in iron for a great rudeness. 
surely they make these thing to please their god say the bull again. 
not altogether the elephant roll forth. it be for the profit of my mahajuns my fat money lender that worship me at each new year when they draw my image at the head of the account book. i look over their shoulder by lamplight see that the name in the book be those of men in far place for all the town be draw together by the fire carriage and the money come and go swiftly and the account book grow a fat a myself. and i who be ganesh of good luck i bless my people. 
they have change the face of the land which be my land. they have kill and make new town on my bank say the mugger. 
it be but the shift of a little dirt. let the dirt dig in the dirt if it plea the dirt answer the elephant. 
but afterwards. say the tiger. afterwards they will see that mother gunga can avenge no insult and they fall away from her first and late from u all one by one. in the end ganesh we be leave with naked altar. 
the drunken man stagger to his foot and hiccup vehemently. 
kali lie. my sister lie. also this my stick be the kotwal of kashi and he keep tally of my pilgrim. when the time come to worship bhairon and it be always time the fire carriage move one by one and each bear a thousand pilgrim. they do not come afoot any more but roll upon wheel and my honour be increase. 
gunga i have see thy bed at pryag black with the pilgrim say the ape lean forward and but for the fire carriage they would have come slowly and in few number. remember. 
they come to me always bhairon go on thickly. by day and night they pray to me all the common people in the field and the road. who be like bhairon to day. what talk be this of change faith. be my staff kotwal of kashi for nothing. he keep the tally and he say that never be so many altar a today and the fire carriage serf them well. bhairon be i bhairon of the common people and the chief of the heavenly one to day. also my staff say. 
peace thou low the bull. the worship of the school be mine and they talk very wisely ask whether i be one or many a be the delight of my people and ye know what i be. kali my wife thou knowest also. 
yea i know say the tigress with lower head. 
great be i than gunga also. for ye know who move the mind of men that they should count gunga holy among the river. who die in that water ye know how men say come to u without punishment and gunga know that the fire carriage ha bear to her score upon score of such anxious one. and kali know that she ha hold her chief festival among the pilgrimage that be feed by the fire carriage. who smite at pooree under the image there her thousand in a day and a night and bind the sickness to the wheel of the fire carriage so that it run from one end of the land to the other. who but kali. before the fire carriage come it be a heavy toil. the fire carriage have serve thee well mother of death. but i speak for mine own altar who be not bhairon of the common folk but shiv. men go to and fro make word and tell talk of strange god and i listen. faith follow faith among my people in the school and i have no anger. for when all word be say and the new talk be end to shiv men return at the last. 
true. it be true murmur hanuman. to shiv and to the others mother they return. i creep from temple to temple in the north where they worship one god and his prophet. and presently my image be alone within their shrine. 
small thank say the buck turn his head slowly. i be that one and his prophet also. 
even so father say hanuman. and to the south i go who be the old of the god a men know the god and presently i touch the shrine of the new faith and the woman whom we know be hew twelve arm and still they call her mary. 
small thank brother say the tigress. i be that woman. 
even so sister. and i go west among the fire carriage and stand before the bridge builder in many shape and because of me they change their faith and be very wise. ho. ho. i be the builder of bridge indeed bridge between this and that and each bridge lead surely to u in the end. be content gunga. neither these men nor those that follow them mock thee at all. 
be i alone then heavenly one. shall i smooth out my flood l unhappily i bear away their wall. will indra dry my spring in the hill and make me crawl humbly between their wharf. shall i bury me in the sand ere i offend. 
and all for the sake of a little iron bar with the fire carriage atop. truly mother gunga be always young. say ganesh the elephant. a child have not speak more foolishly. let the dirt dig in the dirt ere it return to the dirt. i know only that my people grow rich and praise me. shiv ha say that the men of the school do not forget. bhairon be content for his crowd of the common people. and hanuman laugh. 
surely i laugh say the ape. my altar be few beside those of ganesh or bhairon but the fire carriage bring me new worshipper from beyond the black water the men who believe that their god be toil. i run before them beckon and they follow hanuman. 
give them the toil that they desire then say the river. make a bar across my flood and throw the water back upon the bridge. once thou wast strong in lanka hanuman. stoop and lift my bed. 
who give life can take life. the ape scratch in the mud with a long forefinger. and yet who would profit by the kill. very many would die. 
there come up from the water a snatch of a love song such a the boy sing when they watch their cattle in the noon heat of late spring. the parrot scream joyously sidle along his branch with lower head a the song grow loud and in a patch of clear moonlight stand reveal the young herd the darling of the gopis the idol of dream maid and of mother ere their child be bear krishna the well beloved. he stoop to knot up his long wet hair and the parrot flutter to his shoulder. 
fleet and sing and sing and fleet hiccup bhairon. those make thee late for the council brother. 
and then. say krishna with a laugh throw back his head. ye can do little without me or karma here. he fondle the parrot s plumage and laugh again. what be this sit and talk together. i hear mother gunga roar in the dark and so come quickly from a hut where i lay warm. and what have ye do to karma that he be so wet and silent. and what doe mother gunga here. be the heaven full that ye must come paddle in the mud beast wise. karma what do they do. 
gunga ha pray for a vengeance on the bridge builder and kali be with her. now she bid hanuman whelm the bridge that her honour may be make great cry the parrot. i wait here know that thou wouldst come o my master. 
and the heavenly one say nothing. do gunga and the mother of sorrow out talk them. do none speak for my people. 
nay say ganesh move uneasily from foot to foot. i say it be but dirt at play and why should we stamp it flat. 
i be content to let them toil well content say hanuman. 
what have i to do with gunga s anger. say the bull. 
i be bhairon of the common folk and this my staff be kotwal of all kashi. i speak for the common people. 
thou. the young god s eye sparkle. 
be i not the first of the god in their mouth to day. return bhairon unabashed. for the sake of the common people i say very many wise thing which i have now forget but this my staff. 
krishna turn impatiently saw the mugger at his foot and kneel slip an arm round the cold neck. mother he say gently get thee to thy flood again. the matter be not for thee. what harm shall thy honour take of this live dirt. thou hast give them their field new year after year and by thy flood they be make strong. they come all to thee at the last. what need to slay them now. have pity mother for a little and it be only for a little. 
if it be only for a little the slow beast begin. 
be they god then. krishna return with a laugh his eye look into the dull eye of the river. be certain that it be only for a little. the heavenly one have hear thee and presently justice will be do. go now mother to the flood again. men and cattle be thick on the water the bank fall the village melt because of thee. 
but the bridge the bridge stand. the mugger turn grunt into the undergrowth a krishna rise. 
it be end say the tigress viciously. there be no more justice from the heavenly one. ye have make shame and sport of gunga who ask no more than a few score life. 
of my people who lie under the leaf roof of the village yonder of the young girl and the young men who sing to them in the dark of the child that will be bear next morn of that which be beget to night say krishna. and when all be do what profit. to morrow see them at work. ay if ye sweep the bridge out from end to end they would begin anew. hear me. bhairon be drink always. hanuman mock his people with new riddle. 
nay but they be very old one the ape say laugh. 
shiv hear the talk of the school and the dream of the holy men. ganesh think only of his fat trader. but i i live with these my people ask for no gift and so receive them hourly. 
and very tender art thou of thy people say the tigress. 
they be my own. the old woman dream of me turn in their sleep. the maid look and listen for me when they go to fill their lotahs by the river. i walk by the young men wait without the gate at dusk and i call over my shoulder to the white beard. ye know heavenly one that i alone of u all walk upon the earth continually and have no pleasure in our heaven so long a a green blade spring here or there be two voice at twilight in the stand crop. wise be ye but ye live far off. forget whence ye come. so do i not forget. and the fire carriage feed your shrine ye say. and the fire carriage bring a thousand pilgrim where but ten come in the old year. true. that be true to day. 
but to morrow they be dead brother say ganesh. 
peace. say the bull a hanuman lean forward again. and to morrow beloved what of to morrow. 
this only. a new word creep from mouth to mouth among the common folk a word that neither man nor god can lay hold of an evil word a little lazy word among the common folk say. and none know who set that word afoot. that they weary of ye heavenly one. 
the god laugh together softly. and then beloved they say. 
and to cover that weariness they my people will bring to thee shiv and to thee ganesh at first great offering and a loud noise of worship. but the word ha go abroad and after they will pay few due to your fat brahmin. next they will forget your altar but so slowly that no man can say how his forgetfulness begin. 
i know i know. i speak this also but they would not hear say the tigress. we should have slay we should have slay. 
it be too late now. ye should have slay at the begin when the men from across the water have teach our folk nothing. now my people see their work and go away think. they do not think of the heavenly one altogether. they think of the fire carriage and the other thing that the bridge builder have do and when your priest thrust forward hand ask alms they give a little unwillingly. that be the begin among one or two or five or ten for i move among my people know what be in their heart. 
and the end jester of the god. what shall the end be. say ganesh. 
the end shall be a it be in the begin o slothful son of shiv. the flame shall die upon the altar and the prayer upon the tongue till ye become little god again god of the jungle name that the hunter of rat and noosers of dog whisper in the thicket and among the cave rag god pot godlings of the tree and the village mark a ye be at the begin. that be the end ganesh for thee and for bhairon bhairon of the common people. 
it be very far away grunt bhairon. also it be a lie. 
many woman have kiss krishna. they tell him this to cheer their own heart when the grey hair come and he ha tell u the tale say the bull below his breath. 
their god come and we change them. i take the woman and make her twelve arm. so shall we twist all their god say hanuman. 
their god. this be no question of their god one or three man or woman. the matter be with the people. i move and not the god of the bridge builder say krishna. 
so be it. i have make a man worship the fire carriage a it stand still breathe smoke and he know not that he worship me say hanuman the ape. they will only change a little the name of their god. i shall lead the builder of the bridge a of old. shiv shall be worship in the school by such a doubt and despise their fellow. ganesh shall have his mahajuns and bhairon the donkey driver the pilgrim and the seller of toy. beloved they will do no more than change the name and that we have see a thousand time. 
surely they will do no more than change the name echo ganesh. but there be an uneasy movement among the god. 
they will change more than the name. me alone they cannot kill so long a a maiden and a man meet together or the spring follow the winter rain. heavenly one not for nothing have i walk upon the earth. my people know not now what they know. but i who live with them i read their heart. great king the begin of the end be bear already. the fire carriage shout the name of new god that be not the old under new name. drink now and eat greatly. bathe your face in the smoke of the altar before they grow cold. take due and listen to the cymbal and the drum heavenly one while yet there be flower and song. a men count time the end be far off. but a we who know reckon it be to day. i have speak. 
the young god cease and his brother look at each other long in silence. 
this i have not hear before peroo whisper in his companion s ear. and yet sometimes when i oil the brass in the engine room of the goorkha i have wonder if our priest be so wise so wise. the day be come sahib. they will be go by the morning. 
a yellow light broaden in the sky and the tone of the river change a the darkness withdraw. 
suddenly the elephant trumpet aloud a though man have goad him. 
let indra judge. father of all speak thou. what of the thing we have hear. ha krishna lie indeed. or. 
ye know say the buck rise to his foot. ye know the riddle of the god. when brahm cease to dream the heaven and the hell and earth disappear. be content. brahm dream still. the dream come and go and the nature of the dream change but still brahm dream. krishna ha walk too long upon earth and yet i love him the more for the tale he ha tell. the god change beloved all save one. 
ay all save one that make love in the heart of men say krishna knot his girdle. it be but a little time to wait and ye shall know if i lie. truly it be but a little time a thou sayest and we shall know. get thee to thy hut again beloved and make sport for the young thing for still brahm dream. go my child. brahm dream and till he wake the god die not. 
whither go they. say the lascar awe strike shiver a little with the cold. 
god know. say findlayson. the river and the island lay in full daylight now and there be never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth under the peepul. only a parrot scream in the branch bring down shower of water drop a he flutter his wing. 
up. we be cramp with cold. ha the opium die out. canst thou move sahib. 
findlayson stagger to his foot and shake himself. his bead swim and ache but the work of the opium be over and a he sluice his forehead in a pool the chief engineer of the kashi bridge be wonder how he have manage to fall upon the island what chance the day offer of return and above all how his work stand. 
peroo i have forget much i be under the guard tower watch the river. and then do the flood sweep u away. 
no. the boat break loose sahib and. if the sahib have forget about the opium decidedly peroo would not remind him. in strive to retie them so it seem to me but it be dark a rope catch the sahib and throw him upon a boat. consider that we two with hitchcock sahib build a it be that bridge i come also upon the boat which come rid on horseback a it be on the nose of this island and so split cast u ashore. i make a great cry when the boat leave the wharf and without doubt hitchcock sahib will come for u. a for the bridge so many have die in the build that it cannot fall. a fierce sun that draw out all the smell of the sodden land have follow the storm and in that clear light there be no room for a man to think of the dream of the dark. findlayson star upstream across the blaze of move water till his eye ache. there be no sign of any bank to the gang much le of a bridge line. 
we come down far he say. it be wonderful that we be not drown a hundred time. 
that be the least of the wonder for no man dy before his time. i have see sydney i have see london and twenty great port but peroo look at the damp discolour shrine under the peepul never man ha see that we saw here. 
what. 
ha the sahib forget. or do we black men only see the god. 
there be a fever upon me. findlayson be still look uneasily across the water. it seem that the island be full of beast and men talk but i do not remember. a boat could live in this water now i think. 
oho. then it be true. when brahm cease to dream the god die. now i know indeed what he mean. once too the guru say a much to me. but then i do not understand. now i be wise. 
what. say findlayson over his shoulder. 
peroo go on a if he be talk to himself six seven ten monsoon since i be watch on the fo c sle of the rewah the kumpani s big boat and there be a big tufan. green and black water beat and i hold fast to the life line choke under the water. then i think of the god of those whom we saw to night he star curiously at findlayson s back but the white man be look across the flood. yes i say of those whom we saw this night past and i call upon them to protect me. and while i pray still keep my lookout a big wave come and throw me forward upon the ring of the great black bow anchor and the rewah rise high and high lean towards the leave hand side and the water draw away from beneath her nose and i lay upon my belly hold the ring and look down into those great deep. then i think even in the face of death. if i lose hold i die and for me neither the rewah nor my place by the galley where the rice be cook nor bombay nor calcutta nor even london will be any more for me. how shall i be sure i say that the god to whom i pray will abide at all. this i think and the rewah drop her nose a a hammer fall and all the sea come in and slide me backwards along the fo c sle and over the break of the fo c sle and i very badly bruise my shin against the donkey engine. but i do not die and i have see the god. they be good for live men but for the dead. they have speak themselves. therefore when i come to the village i will beat the guru for talk riddle which be no riddle. when brahm cease to dream the god go. 
look up stream. the light blind. be there smoke yonder. 
peroo shade his eye with his hand. he be a wise man and quick. hitchcock sahib would not trust a rowboat. he ha borrow the rao sahib s steam launch and come to look for u. i have always say that there should have be a steam launch on the bridge work for u. 
the territory of the rao of baraon lay within ten mile of the bridge. and findlayson and hitchcock have spend a fair portion of their scanty leisure in play billiards and shoot blackbuck with the young man. he have be beard by an english tutor of sport taste for some five or six year and be now royally waste the revenue accumulate during his minority by the indian government. his steam launch with it silver plat rail strip silk awning and mahogany deck be a new toy which findlayson have find horribly in the way when the rao come to look at the bridge work. 
it s great luck murmur findlayson but he be none the le afraid wonder what news might be of the bridge. 
the gaudy blue and white funnel come downstream swiftly. they could see hitchcock in the bow with a pair of opera glass and his face be unusually white. then peroo hail and the launch make for the tail of the island. the rao sahib in tweed shoot suit and a seven hue turban wave his royal hand and hitchcock shout. but he need have ask no question for findlayson s first demand be for his bridge. 
all serene. gad i never expect to see you again findlayson. you re seven kos downstream. yes. there s not a stone shift anywhere. but how be you. i borrow the rao sahib s launch and he be good enough to come along. jump in. ah finlinson you be very well eh. that be most unprecedented calamity last night eh. my royal palace too it leak like the devil and the crop will also be short all about my country. now you shall back her out hitchcock. i i do not understand steam engine. you be wet. you be cold finlinson. i have some thing to eat here and you will take a good drink. 
i m immensely grateful rao sahib. i believe you ve save my life. how do hitchcock. 
oho. his hair be upon end. he ride to me in the middle of the night and wake me up in the arm of morpheus. i be most truly concern finlinson so i come too. my head priest he be very angry just now. we will go quick mister hitchcock. i be due to attend at twelve forty five in the state temple where we sanctify some new idol. if not so i would have ask you to spend the day with me. they be dam bore these religious ceremony finlinson eh. 
peroo well know to the crew have possess himself of the inlay wheel and be take the launch craftily up stream. but while he steer he be in his mind handle two foot of partially untwist wire rope. and the back upon which he beat be the back of his guru. 
