captain courageous. 
a story of the grand bank. 
by rudyard kipling. 
chapter i. 
the weather door of the smoke room have be leave open to the north atlantic fog a the big liner roll and lift whistle to warn the fish fleet. 
that cheyne boy s the big nuisance aboard say a man in a frieze overcoat shut the door with a bang. he isn t want here. he s too fresh. 
a white haired german reach for a sandwich and grunt between bite. i know d breed. ameriga be full of dot kind. i dell you you should imbort rope end free under your dariff. 
pshaw. there isn t any real harm to him. he s more to be pity than anything a man from new york drawl a he lay at full length along the cushion under the wet skylight. they ve drag him around from hotel to hotel ever since he be a kid. i be talk to his mother this morning. she s a lovely lady but she don t pretend to manage him. he s go to europe to finish his education. 
education isn t begin yet. this be a philadelphian curl up in a corner. that boy get two hundred a month pocket money he tell me. he isn t sixteen either. 
railroad his father aind t it. say the german. 
yep. that and mine and lumber and ship. build one place at san diego the old man ha. another at los angeles. own half a dozen railroad half the lumber on the pacific slope and let his wife spend the money the philadelphian go on lazily. the west don t suit her she say. she just track around with the boy and her nerve try to find out what ll amuse him i guess. florida adirondacks lakewood hot spring new york and round again. he isn t much more than a second hand hotel clerk now. when he s finish in europe he ll be a holy terror. 
what s the matter with the old man attend to him personally. say a voice from the frieze ulster. 
old man s pile up the rock. don t want to be disturb i guess. he ll find out his error a few year from now. pity because there s a heap of good in the boy if you could get at it. 
mit a rope s end. mit a rope s end. growl the german. 
once more the door bang and a slight slim build boy perhaps fifteen year old a half smoke cigarette hang from one corner of his mouth lean in over the high footway. his pasty yellow complexion do not show well on a person of his year and his look be a mixture of irresolution bravado and very cheap smartness. he be dress in a cherry colour blazer knickerbockers red stocking and bicycle shoe with a red flannel cap at the back of the head. after whistle between his teeth a he eye the company he say in a loud high voice. say it s thick outside. you can hear the fish boat squawk all around u. say wouldn t it be great if we run down one. 
shut the door harvey say the new yorker. shut the door and stay outside. you re not want here. 
who ll stop me. he answer deliberately. do you pay for my passage mister martin. guess i ve a good right here a the next man. 
he pick up some dice from a checker board and begin throw right hand against leave. 
say gen elmen this be dead n mud. can t we make a game of poker between u. 
there be no answer and he puff his cigarette swing his leg and drum on the table with rather dirty finger. then he pull out a roll of bill a if to count them. 
how s your mamma this afternoon. a man say. i didn t see her at lunch. 
in her state room i guess. she s most always sick on the ocean. i m go to give the stewardess fifteen dollar for look after her. i don t go down more n i can avoid. it make me feel mysterious to pas that butler s pantry place. say this be the first time i ve be on the ocean. 
oh don t apologise harvey. 
who s apologise. this be the first time i ve cross the ocean gen elmen and except the first day i haven t be sick one little bite. no sir. he bring down his fist with a triumphant bang wet his finger and go on count the bill. 
oh you re a high grade machine with the write in plain sight the philadelphian yawn. you ll blossom into a credit to your country if you don t take care. 
i know it. i m an american first last and all the time. i ll show em that when i strike europe. pif. my cig s out. i can t smoke the truck the steward sell. any gen elman get a real turkish cig on him. 
the chief engineer enter for a moment red smile and wet. say mac cry harvey cheerfully how be we hit it. 
vara much in the ordinary way be the grave reply. the young be a polite a ever to their elder an their elder be e en tryin to appreciate it. 
a low chuckle come from a corner. the german open his cigar case and hand a skinny black cigar to harvey. 
dot be d broper apparatus to smoke my young friendt he say. you vill dry it. yes. den you vill be efer so happy. 
harvey light the unlovely thing with a flourish. he felt that he be get on in grow up society. 
it would take more n this to keel me over he say ignorant that he be light that terrible article a wheel stogie. 
dot we shall bresently see say the german. where be we now mr. mactonal. 
just there or thereabouts mr. schaefer say the engineer. we ll be on the grand bank to night. but in a general way o speakin we re all among the fish fleet now. we ve shave three dory an near skelped the boom off a frenchman since noon an that s close sailin ye may say. 
you like my cigar eh. the german ask for harvey s eye be full of tear. 
fine full flavour he answer through shut teeth. guess we ve slow down a little haven t we. i ll skip out and see what the log say. 
i might if i vhas you say the german. 
harvey stagger over the wet deck to the near rail. he be very unhappy. but he saw the deck steward lash chair together and since he have boast before the man that he be never seasick his pride make him go aft to the second saloon deck at the stern which be finish in a turtle back. the deck be desert and he crawl to the extreme end of it near the flagpole. there he double up in limp agony for the wheel stogie join with the surge and jar of the screw to sieve out his soul. his head swell. spark of fire dance before his eye. his body seem to lose weight while his heel waver in the breeze. he be faint from seasickness and a roll of the ship tilt him over the rail on to the smooth lip of the turtle back. then a low grey mother wave swing out of the fog tuck harvey under one arm so to speak and pull him off and away to leeward. the great green close over him and he go quietly to sleep. 
he be rouse by the sound of a dinner horn such a they use to blow at a summer school he have once attend in the adirondacks. slowly he remember that he be harvey cheyne drown and dead in mid ocean but be too weak to fit thing together. a new smell fill his nostril. wet and clammy chill run down his back and he be helplessly full of salt water. when he open his eye he perceive that he be still on the top of the sea for it be run round him in silver colour hill and he be lie on a pile of half dead fish look at a broad human back clothe in a blue jersey. 
it s no good think the boy. i m dead sure enough and this thing be in charge. 
he groan and the figure turn it head show a pair of little gold ring half hide in curly black hair. 
aha. you feel some pretty well now. it say. lie still so. we trim good. 
with a swift jerk he scull the flicker boat head on to a foamless sea that lift her twenty full foot only to slide her into a glassy pit beyond. but this mountain climb do not interrupt blue jersey s talk. fine good job i say that i catch you. eh wha at. good good job i say your boat not catch me. how you come to fall out. 
i be sick say harvey. sick and couldn t help it. 
just in time i blow my horn and your boat she yaw a little. then i see you come all down. eh wha at. i think you be cut into bait by the screw but you dreeft dreeft to me and i make a big fish of you. so you shall not die this time. 
where be i. say harvey who could not see that life be particularly safe where he lay. 
you be with me in the dory manuel my name and i come from schooner we re here of gloucester. i live to gloucester. by and by we get supper. eh wha at. 
he seem to have two pair of hand and a head of cast iron for not content with blow through a big conch shell he must need stand up to it sway with the sway of the flat bottom dory and send a grind thuttering shriek through the fog. how long this entertainment last harvey could not remember for he lay back terrify at the sight of the smoke swell. he fancy he hear a gun and a horn and shout. something big than the dory but quite a lively loom alongside. several voice talk at once. he be drop into a dark heave hole where men in oilskin give him a hot drink and take off his clothe and he fell asleep. 
when he wake he listen for the first breakfast bell on the steamer wonder why his stateroom have grow so small. turn he look into a narrow triangular cave light by a lamp hang against a huge square beam. a three corner table within arm s reach run from the angle of the bow to the foremast. at the after end behind a well use plymouth stave sit a boy about his own age with a flat red face and a pair of twinkle grey eye. he be dress in a blue jersey and high rubber boot. several pair of the same sort of foot wear an old cap and some wear out woolen sock lay on the floor and black and yellow oilskin sway to and fro beside the bunk. the place be pack a full of smell a a bale be of cotton. the oilskin have a peculiarly thick flavour of their own which make a sort of background to the smell of fry fish burn grease paint pepper and stale tobacco. but these again be all hoop together by one encircle smell of ship and salt water. harvey saw with disgust that there be no sheet on his bed place. he be lie on a piece of dingy tick full of lump and nubble. then too the boat s motion be not that of a steamer. she be neither slide nor roll but rather wriggle herself about in a silly aimless way like a colt at the end of a halter. water noise run by close to his ear and beam creak and whine about him. all these thing make him grunt despairingly and think of his mother. 
feelin good. say the boy with a grin. hev some coffee. he bring a tin cup full and sweeten it with molasses. 
be n t there milk. say harvey look round the dark double tier of bunk a if he expect to find a cow there. 
well no say the boy. ner there ain t likely to be till baout mid september. tain t bad coffee. i make it. 
harvey drink in silence and the boy hand him a plate full of piece of crisp fry pork which he eat ravenously. 
i ve dry your clothe. guess they ve shrink some say the boy. they ain t our style much none of em. twist round an see ef you re hurt any. 
harvey stretch himself in every direction but could not report any injury. 
that s good the boy say heartily. fix yerself an go on deck. dad want to see you. i m his son dan they call me an i m cook s helper an everything else aboard that s too dirty for the men. there ain t no boy here cep me sence otto go overboard an he be only a dutchy an twenty year old at that. how d you come to fall off in a dead flat ca be. 
twasn t a calm say harvey sulkily. it be a gale and i be seasick. guess i must have roll over the rail. 
there be a little common swell yes day an last night say the boy. but ef thet s your notion of a gale he whistle. you ll know more fore you re through. hurry. dad s waitin. 
like many other unfortunate young people harvey have never in all his life receive a direct order never at least without long and sometimes tearful explanation of the advantage of obedience and the reason for the request. mr. cheyne live in fear of break his spirit which perhaps be the reason that she herself walk on the edge of nervous prostration. he could not see why he should be expect to hurry for any man s pleasure and say so. your dad can come down here if he s so anxious to talk to me. i want him to take me to new york right away. it ll pay him. 
dan open his eye a the size and beauty of this joke dawn on him. say dad. he shout up the fo c sle hatch he say you kin slip down an see him ef you re anxious that way. hear dad. 
the answer come back in the deep voice harvey have ever hear from a human chest. quit foolin dan and send him to me. 
dan snigger and throw harvey his warp bicycle shoe. there be something in the tone on the deck that make the boy dissemble his extreme rage and console himself with the think of gradually unfold the tale of his own and his father s wealth on the voyage home. this rescue would certainly make him a hero among his friend for life. he hoist himself on deck up a perpendicular ladder and stumble aft over a score of obstruction to where a small thick set clean shave man with grey eyebrow sit on a step that lead up to the quarter deck. the swell have pass in the night leave a long oily sea dot round the horizon with the sail of a dozen fish boat. between them lay little black speck show where the dory be out fish. the schooner with a triangular rid sail on the mainmast play easily at anchor and except for the man by the cabin roof house they call it she be desert. 
mornin good afternoon i should say. you ve nigh slep the clock around young feller be the greet. 
mornin say harvey. he do not like be call young feller. and a one rescue from drown expect sympathy. his mother suffer agony whenever he get his foot wet. but this mariner do not seem excite. 
naow let s hear all abaout it. it s quite providential first an last fer all concern. what might be your name. where from. we mistrust it s noo york. an where baound. we mistrust it s europe. 
harvey give his name the name of the steamer and a short history of the accident wind up with a demand to be take back immediately to new york where his father would pay anything any one choose to name. 
h m say the shave man quite unmoved by the end of harvey s speech. i can t say we think special of any man or boy even that fall overboard from that kind o packet in a flat ca be. least of all when his excuse be thet he s seasick. 
excuse. cry harvey. d you suppose i d fall overboard into your dirty little boat for fun. 
not knowin what your notion o fun may be i can t rightly say young feller. but if i be you i wouldn t call the boat which under providence be the mean o savin ye name. in the first place it s blame irreligious. in the second it s annoyin to my feelin s an i m disko troop o the we re here o gloucester which you don t seem rightly to know. 
i don t know and i don t care say harvey. i m grateful enough for be save and all that of course. but i want you to understand that the sooner you take me back to new york the good it ll pay you. 
meanin haow. troop raise one shaggy eyebrow over a suspiciously mild blue eye. 
dollar and cent say harvey delight to think that he be make an impression. cold dollar and cent. he thrust a hand into a pocket and throw out his stomach a little which be his way of be grand. you ve do the best day s work you ever do in your life when you pull me in. i m all the son harvey cheyne ha. 
he s bin favour say disko drily. 
and if you don t know who harvey cheyne be you don t know much that s all. now turn her around and let s hurry. 
harvey have a notion that the great part of america be fill with people discuss and envy his father s dollar. 
mebbe i do an mebbe i don t. take a reef in your stummick young feller. it s full o my vittles. 
harvey hear a chuckle from dan who be pretend to be busy by the stump foremast and the blood rush to his face. we ll pay for that too he say. when do you suppose we shall get to new york. 
i don t use noo york any. ner boston. we may see eastern point about september. an your pa i m real sorry i hain t heerd tell of him may give me ten dollar efter all your talk. then o course he mayn t. 
ten dollar. why see here i harvey dive into his pocket for the wad of bill. all he bring up be a soggy packet of cigarette. 
not lawful currency an bad for the lung. heave em overboard young feller and try ag in. 
it s be steal. cry harvey hotly. 
you ll hev to wait till you see your pa to reward me then. 
a hundred and thirty four dollar all steal say harvey hunt wildly through his pocket. give them back. 
a curious change flit across old troop s hard face. what might you have be doin at your time o life with one hundred an thirty four dollar young feller. 
it be part of my pocket money for a month. this harvey think would be a knockdown blow and it be indirectly. 
oh. one hundred and thirty four dollar be only part of his pocket money for one month only. you don t remember hittin anything when you fell over do you. crack ag in a stanchion le s say. old man hasken o the east wind troop seem to be talk to himself he trip on a hatch an butt the mainmast with his head hardish. baout three week afterwards old man hasken he would hev it that the east wind be a commerce destroyin man o war an so he declare war on sable island because it be bridish an the shoal run aout too far. they sew him up in a bed bag his head an foot appearin fer the rest o the trip an now he s to home in essex playin with little rag doll. 
harvey choke with rage but troop go on consolingly. we re sorry fer you. we re very sorry fer you an so young. we win t say no more abaout the money i guess. 
course you win t. you steal it. 
suit yourself. we steal it ef it s any comfort to you. naow abaout goin back. allowin we could do it which we can t you ain t in no fit state to go back to your home an we ve jest come on to the bank workin fer our bread. we don t see the ha af of a hundred dollar a month let alone pocket money. an with good luck we ll be ashore again somewhere abaout the first week o september. 
but but it s may now and i can t stay here doin nothing just because you want to fish. i can t i tell you. 
right an jest. jest an right. no one ask you to do nothin. there s a heap a you can do for otto he go overboard on le have. i mistrust he lose his grip in a gale we f und there. anyways he never come back to deny it. you ve turn up plain plumb providential for all concern. i mistrust though there s ruther few thing you kin do. ain t thet so. 
i can make it lively for you and your crowd when we get ashore say harvey with a vicious nod murmur vague threat about piracy at which troop almost not quite smile. 
excep talk. i d forget that. you ain t ask to talk more n you ve a mind to aboard the we re here. keep your eye open an help dan to do ez he s bid an sechlike an i ll give you you ain t wuth it but i ll give ten an a ha af a month. say thirty five at the end o the trip. a little work will ease up your head an you kin tell u all abaout your dad an your ma n your money efterwards. 
she s on the steamer say harvey his eye fill with tear. take me to new york at once. 
poor woman poor woman. when she ha you back she ll forgit it all though. there s eight of u on the we re here an ef we go back naow it s more n a thousand mile we d lose the season. the men they wouldn t hev it allowin i be agreeable. 
but my father would make it all right. 
he d try. i don t doubt he d try say troop. but a whole season s catch be eight men s bread. an you ll be good in your health when you see him in the fall. go forward an help dan. it s ten an a ha af a month ez i say an o course all f und same ez the rest o u. 
do you mean i m to clean pot and pan and thing. say harvey. 
an other thing. you ve no call to shout young feller. 
i win t. my father will give you enough to buy this dirty little fish kettle harvey stamp on the deck ten time over if you take me to new york safe. and and you re in a hundred and thirty by me anyway. 
ha ow. say troop the iron face darken. 
how. you know how well enough. on top of all that you want me to do menial work harvey be very proud of that adjective till the fall. i tell you i will not. you hear. 
troop regard the top of the mainmast with deep interest for a while a harvey harangue fiercely all around him. 
hsh. he say at last. i m figurin out my responsibility in my own mind. it s a matter o jedgment. 
dan steal up and pluck harvey by the elbow. don t go to tamperin with dad any more he plead. you ve call him a thief two or three time over an he don t take that from any livin bein. 
i win t. harvey almost shriek disregard the advice. and still troop meditate. 
seem kind unneighbourly he say at last his eye travel down to harvey. i don t blame you not a mite young feller nor you win t blame me when the bile s out o your systim. be sure you sense what i say. ten an a ha af fer second boy on the schooner an all f und fer to teach you an fer the sake o your health. yes or no. 
no. say harvey. take me back to new york or i ll see you. 
he do not exactly remember what follow. he be lie in the scupper hold on to a nose that bleed while troop look down on him serenely. 
dan he say to his son i be sot ag in this young feller when i first saw him on account o hasty jedgments. never you be lead astray by hasty jedgments dan. naow i m sorry for him because he s clear distract in his upper work. he ain t responsible fer the name he s give me nor fer his other statement nor fer jumpin overboard which i m abaout ha af convince he do. you be gentle with him dan r i ll give you twice what i ve give him. them hemmeridges clear the head. let him sluice it off. 
troop go down solemnly into the cabin where he and the old men bunk leave dan to comfort the luckless heir to thirty million. 
chapter ii. 
i warn ye say dan a the drop fell thick and fast on the dark oil plank. dad ain t noways hasty but you fair earn it. pshaw. there s no sense takin on so. harvey s shoulder be rise and fall in spasm of dry sob. i know the feelin. first time dad lay me out be the last and that be my first trip. make ye feel sickish an lonesome. i know. 
it doe moan harvey. that man s either crazy or drink and and i can t do anything. 
don t say that to dad whisper dan. he s set ag in all liquor an well he tell me you be the madman. what in creation make you call him a thief. he s my dad. 
harvey sit up mop his nose and tell the story of the miss wad of bill. i m not crazy he wind up. only your father ha never see more than a five dollar bill at a time and my father could buy up this boat once a week and never miss it. 
you don t know what the we re here s worth. your dad must hey a pile o money. how do he git it. dad sez loony can t shake out a straight yarn. go ahead. 
in gold mine and thing west. 
i ve read o that kind o business. out west too. doe he go around with a pistol on a trick pony same ez the circus. they call that the wild west and i ve hear that their spur an bridle be solid silver. 
you be a chump. say harvey amuse in spite of himself. my father hasn t any use for pony. when he want to ride he take his car. 
haow. lobster car. 
no. his own private car of course. you ve see a private car some time in your life. 
slatin beeman he hez one say dan cautiously. i saw her at the union depot in boston with three nigger hoggin her run. dan mean clean the window. but slatin beeman he own baout every railroad on long island they say. an they say he s buy baout ha af noo hampshire an run a line fence around her an fill her up with lion an tiger an bear an buffalo an crocodile an such all. slatin beeman he s a millionaire. i ve see his car. yes. 
well my father s what they call a multi millionaire. and he ha two private car. one s name for me the harvey and one for my mother the constance. 
hold on say dan. dad don t ever let me swear but i guess you can. fore we go ahead i want you to say hope you may die if you re lie. 
of course say harvey. 
thet ain t nuff. say hope i may die if i ain t speakin truth. 
hope i may die right here say harvey if every word i ve speak isn t the cold truth. 
hundred an thirty four dollar an all. say dan. i hear ye talkin to dad an i ha af look you d be swallered up same s jonah. 
harvey protest himself red in the face. dan be a shrewd young person along his own line and ten minute question convince him that harvey be not lie much. besides he have bind himself by the most terrible oath know to boyhood and yet he sit alive with a red end nose in the scupper recount marvel upon marvel. 
gosh. say dan at last from the very bottom of his soul when harvey have complete an inventory of the car name in his honour. then a grin of mischievous delight overspread his broad face. i believe you harvey. dad s make a mistake fer once in his life. 
he ha sure say harvey who be meditate an early revenge. 
he ll be mad clear through. dad jest hate to be mistake in his jedgments. dan lay back and slap his thigh. oh harvey don t you spile the catch by lettin on. 
i don t want to be knock down again. i ll get even with him though. 
never hear any man ever get even with dad. but he d knock ye down again sure. the more he be mistake the more he d do it. but gold mine and pistol. 
i never say a word about pistol harvey cut in for he be on his oath. 
thet s so. no more you do. two private car then one name fer you an one fer her. an two hundred dollar a month pocket money all knock into the scupper fer not workin fer ten an a ha af a month. it s the top haul o the season. he explode with noiseless chuckle. 
then i be right. say harvey who think he have find a sympathiser. 
you be wrong. the wrong kind o wrong. you take right hold an pitch in longside o me or you ll catch it an i ll catch it fer backin you up. dad always give me double help cause i m his son an he hate favourin folk. guess you re kind mad at dad. i ve be that way time an again. but dad s a mighty jest man. all the fleet say so. 
look like justice this don t it. harvey point to his outrage nose. 
thet s nothin. let the shore blood out you. dad do it for yer health. say though i can t have dealin s with a man that think me or dad or any one on the we re here s a thief. we ain t any common wharf end crowd by any manner o mean. we re fisherman an we ve ship together for six year an more. don t you make any mistake on that. i tell ye dad don t let me swear. he call em vain oath and pound me. but ef i could say what you say baout your pap an his fixin s i d say that baout your dollar. i dunno what be in your pocket when i dry your kit fer i didn t look to see. but i d say use the very same word ez you use jest now neither me nor dad an we be the only two that teched you after you be bring aboard know anythin baout the money. thet s my say. naow. 
the bloodletting have certainly clear harvey s brain and maybe the loneliness of the sea have something to do with it. that s all right he say. then he look down confusedly. seem to me that for a fellow just save from drown i haven t be over and above grateful dan. 
well you be shake up and silly say dan. anyway there be only dad an me aboard to see it. the cook he don t count. 
i might have think about lose the bill that way harvey say half to himself instead of call everybody in sight a thief where s your father. 
in the cabin what d you want o him again. 
you ll see say harvey and he step rather groggily for his head be still sing to the cabin step where the little ship s clock hang in plain sight of the wheel. troop in the chocolate and yellow paint cabin be busy with a note book and an enormous black pencil which he suck hard from time to time. 
i haven t act quite right say harvey surprise at his own meekness. 
what s wrong naow. say the skipper walk into dan hev ye. 
no. it s about you. 
i m here to listen. 
well i i m here to take thing back say harvey very quickly. when a man s save from drown he gulp. 
ey. you ll make a man yet ef you go on this way. 
he oughtn t begin by call people name. 
jest an right right an jest say troop with the ghost of a dry smile. 
so i m here to say i m sorry. another big gulp. 
troop heave himself slowly off the locker he be sit on and hold out an eleven inch hand. i mistrust twould do you sight o good. an this show i weren t mistake in my jedgments. a smother chuckle on deck catch his ear. i be very seldom mistake in my jedgments. the eleven inch hand close on harvey s numb it to the elbow. we ll put a little more gristle to that fore we ve do with you young feller. an i don t think any bad of ye fer anythin thet s go by. you wasn t fairly responsible. go right abaout your business an you win t take no hurt. 
you re white say dan a harvey regain the deck flush to the tip of his ear. 
i don t feel it say he. 
i didn t mean that way. i hear what dad say. when dad allow he don t think the bad of any man dad s give himself away. he hate to be mistake in his jedgments too. ho. ho. onct dad ha a jedgment he d sooner dip his colour to the british than change it. i m glad it s settle right eend up. dad s right when he say he can t take you back. it s all the livin we make here fishin. the men ll be back like shark after a dead whale in ha af an hour. 
what for. say harvey. supper o course. don t your stummick tell you. you ve a heap to learn. 
guess i have say harvey dolefully look at the tangle of rope and block overhead. 
she s a daisy say dan enthusiastically misunderstand the look. wait till our mainsail s bend an she walk home with all her salt wet. there s some work first though. he point down into the darkness of the open main hatch between the two mast. 
what s that for. it s all empty say harvey. 
you an me an a few more hev get to fill it say dan. that s where the fish go. 
alive. say harvey. 
well no. they re so s to be ruther dead an flat an salt. there s a hundred hogshead o salt in the bin. an we hain t more n cover our dunnage to now. 
where be the fish though. 
in the sea they say. in the boat we pray say dan quote a fisherman s proverb. you come in last night with baout forty of em. 
he point to a sort of wooden pen just in front of the quarter deck. 
you an me we ll sluice that out when they re through. send we ll hev full pen to night. i ve see her down ha af a foot with fish waitin to clean an we stand to the table till we be splittin ourselves instid o them we be so sleepy. yes they re comin in naow. dan look over the low bulwark at half a dozen dory row towards them over the shin silky sea. 
i ve never see the sea from so low down say harvey. it s fine. 
the low sun make the water all purple and pinkish with golden light on the barrel of the long swell and blue and green mackerel shade in the hollow. each schooner in sight seem to be pull her dory towards her by invisible string and the little black figure in the tiny boat pull like clockwork toy. 
they ve strike on good say dan between his half shut eye. manuel hain t room fer another fish. low ez a lily pad in still water ain t he. 
which be manuel. i don t see how you can tell em way off a you do. 
last boat to the south ard. he f und you last night say dan point. manuel row portugoosey. ye can t mistake him. east o him he s a heap good n he row be pennsylvania. load with saleratus by the look of him. east o him see how pretty they string out all along with the humpy shoulder be long jack. he s a galway man inhabitin south boston where they all live mostly an mostly them galway men be good in a boat. north away yonder you ll hear him tune up in a minute be tom platt. man o war s man he be on the old ohio first of our navy he say to go araound the horn. he never talk of much else cept when he sing but be ha fair fishin luck. there. what do i tell you. 
a melodious bellow steal across the water from the northern dory. harvey hear something about somebody s hand and foot be cold and then. 
bring forth the chart the doleful chart. see where them mounting meet. the cloud be thick around their head the mist around their foot. 
full boat say dan with a chuckle. if he give u o captain it s toppin full. 
the bellow continue. 
and naow to thee o capting most earnestly i pray that they shall never bury me in church or cloister grey. 
double game for tom platt. he ll tell you all about the old ohio to morrow. see that blue dory behind him. he s my uncle dad s own brother an ef there s any bad luck loose on the bank she ll fetch up ag in uncle salter sure. look how tender he s rowin. i ll lay my wage and share he s the only man sting up to day an he s sting up good. 
what ll sting him. say harvey get interest. 
strawberry mostly. punkins sometimes an sometimes lemon an cucumber. yes he s sting up from his elbow down. that man s luck s perfectly paralysin. naow we ll take a holt o the tackle an h ist em in. be it true what you tell me jest now that you never do a hand s turn o work in all your bear life. must feel kind awful don t it. 
i m go to try to work anyway harvey reply stoutly. only it s all dead new. 
lay a holt o that tackle then. behind ye. 
harvey grab at a rope and long iron hook dangle from one of the stay of the mainmast while dan pull down another that run from something he call a top lift a manuel draw alongside in his load dory. the portuguese smile a brilliant smile that harvey learn to know well late and a short handle fork begin to throw fish into the pen on deck. two hundred and thirty one he shout. 
give him the hook say dan and harvey run it into manuel s hand. he slip it through a loop of rope at the dory s bow catch dan s tackle hook it to the stern becket and clamber into the schooner. 
pull. shout dan. and harvey pull astonish to find how easily the dory rise. 
hold on. she don t nest in the crosstrees. dan laugh. and harvey hold on for the boat lay in the air above his head. 
low away dan shout. and a harvey lower dan sway the light boat with one hand till it land softly just behind the mainmast. they don t weigh nothin empty. thet be right smart fer a passenger. there s more trick to it in a sea way. 
ah ha. say manuel hold out a brown hand. you be some pretty well now. this time last night the fish they fish for you. now you fish for fish. eh wha at. 
i m i m ever so grateful harvey stammer and his unfortunate hand steal to his pocket once more but he remember that he have no money to offer. when he know manuel good the mere think of the mistake he might have make would cover him with hot uneasy blush in his bunk. 
there be no to be thankful for to me. say manuel. how shall i leave you dreeft dreeft all around the bank. now you be a fisherman eh wha at. ouh. auh. he bend backward and forward stiffly from the hip to get the kink out of himself. 
i have not clean boat to day. too busy. they strike on queek. danny my son clean for me. 
harvey move forward at once. here be something he could do for the man who have save his life. 
dan throw him a swab and he lean over the dory mop up the slime clumsily but with great good will. hike out the foot board. they slide in them groove say dan. swab em an lay em down. never let a foot board jam. ye may want her bad some day. here s long jack. 
a stream of glitter fish fly into the pen from a dory alongside. 
manuel you take the tackle. i ll fix the table. harvey clear manuel s boat. long jack s nestin on the top of her. 
harvey look up from his swab at the bottom of another dory just above his head. 
jest like the injian puzzle box ain t they. say dan a the one boat drop into the other. 
take to ut like a duck to water say long jack a grizzly chin long lipped galway man bend to and fro exactly a manuel have do. disko in the cabin growl up the hatchway and they could hear him suck his pencil. 
wan hunder an forty nine an a half bad luck to ye discobolus. say long jack. i m murderin meself to fill your pockuts. slate ut for a bad catch. the portugee ha bate me. 
whack come another dory alongside and more fish shoot into the pen. 
two hundred and three. let s look at the passenger. the speaker be even large than the galway man and his face be make curious by a purple cut run slantways from his leave eye to the right corner of his mouth. 
not know what else to do harvey swab each dory a it come down pull out the foot board and lay them in the bottom of the boat. 
he s catch on good say the scar man who be tom platt watch him critically. there be two way o doin everything. one s fisher fashion any end first an a slippery hitch over all an the other s. 
what we do on the old ohio. dan interrupt brush into the knot of men with a long board on leg. git out o here tom platt an leave me fix the table. 
he jam one end of the board into two nick in the bulwark kick out the leg and duck just in time to avoid a swing blow from the man o war s man. 
an they do that on the ohio too danny. see. say tom platt laugh. 
guess they be swivel eye then fer it didn t git home and i know who ll find his boot on the main truck ef he don t leave u alone. haul ahead. i m busy can t ye see. 
danny ye lie on the cable an sleep all day say long jack. you re the hoight av impidence an i m persuade ye ll corrupt our supercargo in a week. 
his name s harvey say dan wave two strangely shape knife an he ll be worth five of any sou boston clam digger fore long. he lay the knife tastefully on the table cock his head on one side and admire the effect. 
i think it s forty two say a small voice over side and there be a roar of laughter a another voice answer then my luck s turn fer onct caze i m forty five though i be sting out all shape. 
forty two or forty five. i ve lose count the small voice say. 
it s penn an uncle salter caountin catch. this beat the circus any day say dan. jest look at em. 
come in come in. roar long jack. it s wet out yondher child. 
forty two ye say. this be uncle salter. 
i ll count again then the voice reply meekly. 
the two dory swing together and bunt into the schooner s side. 
patience o jerusalem. snap uncle salter back water with a splash. what possest a farmer like you to set foot in a boat beat me. you ve nigh stave me all up. 
i be sorry mr. salter. i come to sea on account of nervous dyspepsia. you advise me i think. 
you an your nervi dyspepsy be drown in the whale hole roar uncle salter a fat and tubly little man. you re comin down on me ag in. do ye say forty two or forty five. 
i ve forget mr. salter. let s count. 
don t see a it could be forty five. i m forty five say uncle salter. you count keerful penn. 
disko troop come out of the cabin. salter you pitch your fish in naow at once he say in the tone of authority. 
don t spile the catch dad dan murmur. them two be on y jest beginnin. 
mother av delight. he s forkin them wan by wan howl long jack a uncle salter get to work laboriously. the little man in the other dory count a line of notch on the gunwale. 
that be last week s catch he say look up plaintively his forefinger where he have leave off. 
manuel nudge dan who dart to the after tackle and lean far overside slip the hook into the stern rope a manuel make her fast forward. the others pull gallantly and swing the boat in man fish and all. 
one two four nine say tom platt count with a practise eye. forty seven. penn you re it. dan let the after tackle run and slide him out of the stern on to the deck amid a torrent of his own fish. 
hold on. roar uncle salter bob by the waist. hold on i m a bite mix in my caount. 
he have no time to protest but be heave inboard and treat like pennsylvania. 
forty one say tom platt. beat by a farmer salter. an you sech a sailor too. 
tweren t fair caount say he stumble out of the pen. an i m sting up all to piece. 
his thick hand be puffy and mottle purply white. 
some folk will find strawberry bottom say dan address the newly rise moon ef they hev to dive fer it seem to me. 
an others say uncle salter eat the fat o the land in sloth an mock their own blood kin. 
seat ye. seat ye. a voice harvey have not hear call from the fo c sle. disko troop tom platt long jack and salter go forward on the word. little penn bend above his square deep sea reel and the tangle cod line. manuel lay down full length on the deck and dan drop into the hold where harvey hear him bang cask with a hammer. 
salt he say return. soon a we re through supper we git to dress down. you ll pitch to dad. tom platt an dad they stow together an you ll hear em arguin. we re second ha af you an me an manuel an penn the youth an beauty o the boat. 
what s the good of that. say harvey. i m hungry. 
they ll be through in a minute. sniff. she smell good to night. dad ship a good cook ef he do suffer with his brother. it s a full catch today ain t it. he point at the pen pile high with cod. what water do ye hev manuel. 
twenty fife father say the portuguese sleepily. they strike on good an queek. some day i show you harvey. 
the moon be begin to walk on the still sea before the elder men come aft. the cook have no need to cry second half. dan and manuel be down the hatch and at table ere tom platt last and most deliberate of the elder have finish wipe his mouth with the back of his hand. harvey follow penn and sit down before a tin pan of cod s tongue and sound mix with scrap of pork and fry potato a loaf of hot bread and some black and powerful coffee. hungry a they be they wait while pennsylvania solemnly ask a bless. then they stoke in silence till dan draw breath over his tin cup and demand of harvey how he felt. 
most full but there s just room for another piece. 
the cook be a huge jet black negro and unlike all the negro harvey have meet do not talk content himself with smile and dumb show invitation to eat more. 
see harvey say dan rap with his fork on the table it s jest a i say. the young an handsome men like me an pennsy an you an manuel we re second ha af an we eat when the first ha af be through. they re the old fish. and they re mean an humpy an their stummicks ha to be humour. so they come first which they don t deserve. ain t that so doctor. 
the cook nod. 
can t he talk. say harvey in a whisper. 
nough to git along. not much o anything we know. his natural tongue s kind curious. come from the in ards of cape breton he doe where the farmer speak home make scotch. cape breton s full o nigger whose folk run in there durin aour war an they talk like the farmer all huffy chuffy. 
that be not scotch say pennsylvania. that be gaelic. so i read in a book. 
penn read a heap. most of what he say be so cep when it come to a caount o fish eh. 
doe your father just let them say how many they ve catch without check them. say harvey. 
why yes. where s the sense of a man lyin fer a few old cod. 
be a man once lie for his catch manuel put in. lie every day. fife ten twenty fife more fish than come he say there be. 
where be that. say dan. none o aour folk. 
frenchman of anguille. 
ah. them west shore frenchman don t caount anyway. stand to reason they can t caount. ef you run acrost any of their soft hook harvey you ll know why say dan with an awful contempt. 
always more and never le every time we come to dress. 
long jack roar down the hatch and the second ha af scramble up at once. 
the shadow of the mast and rig with the never furl rid sail roll to and fro on the heave deck in the moonlight. and the pile of fish by the stern shine like a dump of fluid silver. in the hold there be trampling and rumbling where disko troop and tom platt move among the salt bin. dan pass harvey a pitchfork and lead him to the inboard end of the rough table where uncle salter be drum impatiently with a knife haft. a tub of salt water lay at his foot. 
you pitch to dad an tom platt down the hatch an take keer uncle salter don t cut yer eye out say dan swing himself into the hold. i ll pas salt below. 
penn and manuel stand knee deep among cod in the pen flourish draw knife. long jack a basket at his foot and mitten on his hand face uncle salter at the table and harvey star at the pitchfork and the tub. 
hi. shout manuel stoop to the fish and bring one up with a finger under it gill and a finger in it eye. he lay it on the edge of the pen. the knife blade glimmer with a sound of tear and the fish slit from throat to vent with a nick on either side of the neck drop at long jack s foot. 
hi. say long jack with a scoop of his mittened hand. the cod s liver drop in the basket. another wrench and scoop send the head and offal fly and the empty fish slide across to uncle salter who snort fiercely. there be another sound of tear the backbone fly over the bulwark and the fish headless gutted and open splash in the tub send the salt water into harvey s astonish mouth. after the first yell the men be silent. the cod move along a though they be alive and long ere harvey have cease wonder at the miraculous dexterity of it all his tub be full. 
pitch. grunt uncle salter without turn his head and harvey pitch the fish by two and three down the hatch. 
hi. pitch em bunchy shout dan. don t scatter. uncle salter be the best splitter in the fleet. watch him mind his book. 
indeed it look a little a though the round uncle be cut magazine page against time. manuel s body cramp over from the hip stay like a statue. but his long arm grab the fish without cease. little penn toil valiantly but it be easy to see he be weak. once or twice manuel find time to help him without break the chain of supply and once manuel howl because he have catch his finger in a frenchman s hook. these hook be make of soft metal to be rebent after use. but the cod very often get away with them and be hook again elsewhere. and that be one of the many reason why the gloucester boat despise the frenchman. 
down below the rasp sound of rough salt rub on rough flesh sound like the whir of a grindstone a steady undertune to the click nick of the knife in the pen. the wrench and schloop of tear head drop liver and fly offal. the caraaah of uncle salter s knife scoop away backbone. and the flap of wet open body fall into the tub. 
at the end of an hour harvey would have give the world to rest. for fresh wet cod weigh more than you would think and his back ache with the steady pitch. but he felt for the first time in his life that he be one of a work gang of men take pride in the think and hold on sullenly. 
knife oh. shout uncle salter at last. penn double up gasp among the fish manuel bow back and forth to supple himself and long jack lean over the bulwark. the cook appear noiseless a a black shadow collect a mass of backbone and head and retreat. 
blood end for breakfast an head chowder say long jack smack his lip. 
knife oh. repeat uncle salter wave the flat curve splitter s weapon. 
look by your foot harve cry dan below. 
harvey saw half a dozen knife stick in a cleat in the hatch comb. he deal these around take over the dull one. 
water. say disko troop. 
scuttle butt s for ard an the dipper s alongside. hurry harve say dan. 
he be back in a minute with a big dipperful of stale brown water which taste like nectar and loose the jaw of disko and tom platt. 
these be cod say disko. they ain t damarskus fig tom platt nor yet silver bar. i ve tell you that every single time sence we ve sail together. 
a matter o seven season return tom platt coolly. good stowin s good stowin all the same an there s a right an a wrong way o stowin ballast even. if you d ever see four hundred ton o iron set into the. 
hi. with a yell from manuel the work begin again and never stop till the pen be empty. the instant the last fish be down disko troop roll aft to the cabin with his brother. manuel and long jack go forward. tom platt only wait long enough to slide home the hatch ere he too disappear. in half a minute harvey hear deep snore in the cabin and he be star blankly at dan and penn. 
i do a little good that time danny say penn whose eyelid be heavy with sleep. but i think it be my duty to help clean. 
wouldn t hev your conscience fer a thousand quintal say dan. turn in penn. you ve no call to do boy s work. draw a bucket harvey. oh penn dump these in the gurry butt fore you sleep. kin you keep awake that long. 
penn take up the heavy basket of fish liver empty them into a cask with a hinge top lash by the fo c sle. then he too drop out of sight in the cabin. 
boy clean up after dressin down an first watch in ca be weather be boy s watch on the we re here. dan sluice the pen energetically unshipped the table set it up to dry in the moonlight run the red knife blade through a wad of oakum and begin to sharpen them on a tiny grindstone a harvey throw offal and backbone overboard under his direction. 
at the first splash a silvery white ghost rise bolt upright from the oily water and sigh a weird whistle sigh. harvey start back with a shout but dan only laugh. grampus say he. beggin fer fish head. they up eend thet way when they re hungry. breath on him like the doleful tomb hain t he. a horrible stench of decay fish fill the air a the pillar of white sink and the water bubble oilily. hain t ye never see a grampus up eend before. you ll see em by hundred fore ye re through. say it s good to hev a boy aboard again. otto be too old an a dutchy at that. him an me we fight consid ble. wouldn t ha keered fer thet ef he d hed a christian tongue in his head. sleepy. 
dead sleepy say harvey nod forward. 
mustn t sleep on watch. rouse up an see ef our anchor light s bright an shinin. you re on watch now harve. 
pshaw. what s to hurt u. bright s day. sn orrr. 
jest when thing happen dad say. fine weather s good sleepin an fore you know mebbe you re cut in two by a liner an seventeen brass bind officer all gen elmen lift their hand to it that your light be aout an there be a thick fog. harve i ve kind take to you but ef you nod onct more i ll lay into you with a rope s end. 
the moon who see many strange thing on the bank look down on a slim youth in knickerbockers and a red jersey stagger around the clutter deck of a seventy ton schooner while behind him wave a knot rope walk after the manner of an executioner a boy who yawn and nod between the blow he deal. 
the lash wheel groan and kick softly the rid sail slat a little in the shift of the light wind the windlass creak and the miserable procession continue. harvey expostulate threaten whimper and at last weep outright while dan the word clot on his tongue speak of the beauty of watchfulness and slash away with the rope s end punish the dory a often a he hit harvey. at last the clock in the cabin strike ten and upon the tenth stroke little penn creep on deck. he find two boy in two tumble heap side by side on the main hatch so deeply asleep that he actually roll them to their berth. 
chapter iii. 
it be the forty fathom slumber that clear the soul and eye and heart and send you to breakfast raven. they empty a big tin dish of juicy fragment of fish the blood end the cook have collect overnight. they clean up the plate and pan of the elder mess who be out fish slice pork for the midday meal swab down the fo c sle fill the lamp draw coal and water for the cook and investigate the fore hold where the boat s store be stack. it be another perfect day soft mild and clear. and harvey breathe to the very bottom of his lung. 
more schooner have creep up in the night and the long blue sea be full of sail and dory. far away on the horizon the smoke of some liner her hull invisible smudge the blue and to eastward a big ship s topgallantsails just lift make a square nick in it. disko troop be smoke by the roof of the cabin one eye on the craft around and the other on the little fly at the mainmast head. 
when dad kerflummoxes that way say dan in a whisper he s doin some high line thinkin fer all hand. i ll lay my wage an share we ll make berth soon. dad he know the cod an the fleet they know dad know. see em comin up one by one lookin fer nothin in particular o course but scrowgin on u all the time. there s the prince leboa. she s a chat ham boat. she s crep up sence last night. an see that big one with a patch in her foresail an a new jib. she s the carrie pitman from west chatham. she win t keep her canvas long on le her luck s change since last season. she don t do much cep drift. there ain t an anchor make ll hold her. when the smoke puff up in little ring like that dad s studyin the fish. ef we speak to him now he ll git mad. la time i do he jest take an heave a boot at me. 
disko troop star forward the pipe between his teeth with eye that saw nothing. a his son say he be study the fish pit his knowledge and experience on the bank against the rove cod in his own sea. he accept the presence of the inquisitive schooner on the horizon a a compliment to his power. but now that it be pay he wish to draw away and make his berth alone till it be time to go up to the virgin and fish in the street of that roar town upon the water. so disko troop think of recent weather and gale current food supply and other domestic arrangement from the point of view of a twenty pound cod. be in fact for an hour a cod himself and look remarkably like one. then he remove the pipe from his teeth. 
dad say dan we ve do our chore. can t we go overside a piece. it s good catch in weather. 
not in that cherry colour rig ner them ha afbaked brown shoe. give him suthin fit to wear. 
dad s please that settle it say dan delightedly drag harvey into the cabin while troop pitch a key down the step. dad keep my spare rig where he kin overhaul it cause ma sez i m keerless. he rummage through a locker and in le than three minute harvey be adorn with fisherman s rubber boot that come half up his thigh a heavy blue jersey well darn at the elbow a pair of flipper and a sou west. 
naow ye look somethin like say dan. hurry. 
keep nigh an handy say troop an don t go visitin raound the fleet. ef any one ask you what i m cal latin to do speak the truth fer ye don t know. 
a little red dory label hattie s. lay astern of the schooner. dan haul in the painter and drop lightly on to the bottom board while harvey tumble clumsily after. 
that s no way o gettin into a boat say dan. ef there be any sea you d go to the bottom sure. you get to learn to meet her. 
dan fit the thole pin take the forward thwart and watch harvey s work. the boy have row in a ladylike fashion on the adirondack pond. but there be a difference between squeak pin and well balance rowlock light scull and stubby eight foot sea oar. they stick in the gentle swell and harvey grunt. 
short. row short. say dan. ef you cramp your oar in any kind o sea you re liable to turn her over. ain t she a daisy. mine too. 
the little dory be specklessly clean. in her bow lay a tiny anchor two jug of water and some seventy fathom of thin brown dory roding. a tin dinner horn rest in cleat just under harvey s right hand beside an ugly look maul a short gaff and a short wooden stick. a couple of line with very heavy lead and double cod hook all neatly coil on square reel be stick in their place by the gunwale. 
where s the sail and mast. say harvey for his hand be begin to blister. 
dan chuckle. ye don t sail fishin dory much. ye pull. but ye needn t pull so hard. don t you wish you own her. 
well i guess my father might give me one or two if i ask em harvey reply. he have be too busy to think much of his family till then. 
that s so. i forget your dad s a millionaire. you don t act millionary any naow. but a dory an craft an gear dan speak a though she be a whale boat cost a heap. think your dad u d give you one fer fer a pet like. 
shouldn t wonder. it would be most the only thing i haven t stick him for yet. 
must be an expensive kind kid to home. don t slitheroo thet way harve. short s the trick because no sea s ever dead still an the swell ll. 
crack. the loom of the oar kick harvey under the chin and knock him backward. 
that be what i be goin to say. i hed to learn too but i wasn t more than eight year old when i get my schoolin. 
harvey regain his seat with ache jaw and a frown. 
no good gettin mad at thing dad say. it s our own fault ef we can t handle em he say. le s try here. manuel ll give u the water. 
the portugee be rock fully a mile away but when dan up end an oar he wave his leave arm three time. 
thirty fathom say dan string a salt clam on to the hook. over with the dough boy. bait same s i do harve an don t snarl your reel. 
dan s line be out long before harvey have master the mystery of bait and heave out the lead. the dory drift along easily. it be not worth while to anchor till they be sure of good grind. 
here we come. dan shout and a shower of spray rattle on harvey s shoulder a a big cod flap and kick alongside. muckle harvey muckle. under your hand. quick. 
evidently muckle could not be the dinner horn so harvey pass over the maul and dan scientifically stun the fish before he pull it inboard and wrench out the hook with the short wooden stick he call a gob stick. then harvey felt a tug and pull up zealously. 
why these be strawberry. he shout. look. 
the hook have foul among a bunch of strawberry red on one side and white on the other perfect reproduction of the land fruit except that there be no leaf and the stem be all pipy and slimy. 
don t tech em. slat em off. don t. 
the warn come too late. harvey have pick them from the hook and be admire them. 
ouch. he cry for his finger throb a though he have grasp many nettle. 
naow ye know what strawberry bottom mean. nothin cep fish should be teched with the naked finger dad say. slat em off ag in the gunnel an bait up harve. lookin win t help any. it s all in the wage. 
harvey smile at the think of his ten and a half dollar a month and wonder what his mother would say if she could see him hang over the edge of a fish dory in mid ocean. she suffer agony whenever he go out on saranac lake. and by the way harvey remember distinctly that he use to laugh at her anxiety. suddenly the line flash through his hand sting even through the flipper the woolen circlet suppose to protect it. 
he s a logy. give him room accordin to his strength cry dan. i ll help ye. 
no you win t harvey snap a he hang on to the line. it s my first fish. be be it a whale. 
halibut mebbe. dan peer down into the water alongside and flourish the big muckle ready for all chance. something white and oval flicker and flutter through the green. i ll lay my wage an share he s over a hundred. be you so everlastin anxious to land him alone. harvey s knuckle be raw and bleed where they have be bang against the gunwale. his face be purple blue between excitement and exertion. he drip with sweat and be half blind from star at the circle sunlit ripple about the swiftly move line. the boy be tire long ere the halibut who take charge of them and the dory for the next twenty minute. but the big flat fish be gaffed and haul in at last. 
beginner s luck say dan wipe his forehead. he s all of a hundred. 
harvey look at the huge grey and mottle creature with unspeakable pride. he have see halibut many time on marble slab ashore but it have never occur to him to ask how they come inland. now he know. and every inch of his body ache with fatigue. 
ef dad be along say dan haul up he d read the sign plain s print. the fish arc runnin small an small an you ve take baout a logy a halibut s we re apt to find this trip. yesterday s catch do ye notice it. be all big fish an no halibut. dad he d read them sign right off. dad say everythin on the bank be sign an can be read wrong er right. dad s deep n the whale hole. 
even a he speak some one fire a pistol on the we re here and a potato basket be run up in the fore rig. 
what do i say naow. that s the call fer the whole crowd. dad s onter something er he d never break fishin this time o day. reel up harve an we ll pull back. 
they be to windward of the schooner just ready to flirt the dory over the still sea when sound of woe half a mile off lead them to penn who be career around a fix point for all the world like a gigantic water bug. the little man back away and come down again with enormous energy but at the end of each manoeuvre his dory swing round and snub herself on her rope. 
we ll hey to help him else he ll root an seed here say dan. 
what s the matter. say harvey. this be a new world where he could not lay down the law to his elder but have to ask question humbly. and the sea be horribly big and unexcited. 
anchor s foul. penn s always lose em. lose two this trip a ready on sandy bottom too an dad say next one he lose sure s fish in he ll give him the kelleg. that u d break penn s heart. 
what s a kelleg. say harvey who have a vague idea it might be some kind of marine torture like keel haul in the story book. 
big stone instid of an anchor. you kin see a kelleg ridin in the bow fur s you can see a dory an all the fleet know what it mean. they d guy him dreadful. penn couldn t stand that no more n a dog with a dipper to his tail. he s so everlastin sensitive. hello penn. stick again. don t try any more o your patent. come up on her and keep your rodin straight up an down. 
it doesn t move say the little man pant. it doesn t move at all and indeed i try everything. what s all this hurrah s nest for ard. say dan point to a wild tangle of spare oar and dory roding all mat together by the hand of inexperience. 
oh that say penn proudly be a spanish windlass. mr. salter show me how to make it. but even that doesn t move her. 
dan bend low over the gunwale to hide a smile twitch once or twice on the roding and behold the anchor draw at once. 
haul up penn he say laugh er she ll git stick again. 
they leave him regard the weed hang fluke of the little anchor with big pathetic blue eye and thank them profusely. 
oh say while i think of it harve say dan when they be out of ear shoot penn ain t quite all caulk. he ain t nowise dangerous but his mind s give out. see. 
be that so or be it one of your father s judgment. harvey ask a he bend to his oar. he felt he be learn to handle them more easily. 
dad ain t mistake this time. penn s a sure nuff loony. no he ain t thet exactly so much ez a harmless ijjit. it be this way. you re rowin quite so harve. an i tell you cause it s right you orter know. he be a moravian preacher once. jacob boller wuz his name dad tell me an he live with his wife an four child somewhere out pennsylvania way. well penn he take his folk along to a moravian meetin camp meetin most like an they stay over jest one night in johnstown. you ve heered talk o johnstown. 
harvey consider. yes i have. but i don t know why. it stick in my head same a ashtabula. 
both be big accident thet s why harve. well that one single night penn and his folk be to the hotel johnstown be wipe out. dam bu st an flood her an the house strike adrift an bump into each other an sink. i ve see the picture an they re dretful. penn he saw his folk drown all n a heap fore he rightly know what be comin. his mind give out from that on. he mistrust somethin hed happen up to johnstown but for the poor life of him he couldn t remember what an he jest drift araound smilin an wonderin. he didn t know what he be nor yit what he hed bin an thet way he run ag in uncle salter who be visitin n allegheny city. ha af my mother s folk they live scatter inside o pennsylvania an uncle salter he visit araound winter. uncle salter he kind adopt penn well knowin what his trouble wuz. an he bring him east an he give him work on his farm. 
why i hear him call penn a farmer last night when the boat bump. be your uncle salter a farmer. 
farmer. shout dan. there ain t water enough tween here an hatt ru to wash the furrer mould off n his boot. he s jest everlastin farmer. why harve i ve see thet man hitch up a bucket long towards sundown an set twiddlin the spigot to the scuttle butt same s ef twuz a cow s bag. he s thet much farmer. well penn an he they run the farm up exeter way twuz. uncle salter he sell it this spring to a jay from boston a want to build a summerhaouse an he get a heap for it. well them two loony scratch along till one day penn s church he d belong to the moravians find out where he wuz drift an layin an write to uncle salter. never heerd what they say exactly. but uncle salter be mad. he s a piscopalian mostly but he jest let em hev it both side o the bow sif he be a baptist an sez he warn t goin to give up penn to any blame moravian connection in pennsylvania or anywheres else. then he come to dad towin penn thet be two trip back an sez he an penn must fish a trip fer their health. guess he think the moravians wouldn t hunt the bank fer jacob boller. dad be agreeable fer uncle salter he d be fishin off an on fer thirty year when he warn t inventin patent manure an he take quarter share in the we re here. an the trip do penn so much good dad make a habit o takin him. some day dad sez he ll remember his wife an kid an johnstown an then like s not he ll die dad sez. don t yer talk about johnstown ner such thing to penn r uncle salter he ll heave ye overboard. 
poor penn. murmur harvey. i shouldn t ever have think uncle salter care for him by the look of em together. 
i like penn though. we all do say dan. we ought to ha give him a tow but i want to tell ye first. 
they be close to the schooner now the other boat a little behind them. 
you needn t heave in the dory till after dinner say troop from the deck. we ll dress daown right off. fix table boy. 
deep n the whale deep say dan with a wink a he set the gear for dress down. look at them boat that hev edge up sence mornin. they re all waitin on dad. see em harve. 
they be all alike to me. and indeed to a landsman the nod schooner around seem run from the same mould. 
they ain t though. that yaller dirty packet with her bowsprit steeved that way she s the hope of prague. nick brady s her skipper the mean man on the bank. we ll tell him so when we strike the main ledge. way off yander s the day s eye. the two jeraulds own her. she s from harwich. fastish too an hez good luck. but dad he d find fish in a graveyard. them other three side along they re the margie smith rise and edith s. walen all frum home. guess we ll see the abbie m. deering to morrer dad win t we. they re all slippin over from the shoal o queereau. 
you win t see many boat to morrow danny. when troop call his son danny it be a sign that the old man be please. boy we re too crowd he go on address the crew a they clamber inboard. we ll leave em to bait big an catch small. he look at the catch in the pen and it be curious to see how little and level the fish run. save for harvey s halibut there be nothing over fifteen pound on deck. 
i m waitin on the weather he add. 
ye ll have to make it yourself disko for there s no sign i can see say long jack sweep the clear horizon. 
and yet half an hour late a they be dress down the bank fog drop on them between fish and fish a they say. it drive steadily and in wreath curl and smoke along the colourless water. the men stop dress down without a word. long jack and uncle salter slip the windlass brake into their socket and begin to heave up the anchor the windlass jar a the wet hempen cable strain on the barrel. manuel and tom platt give a hand at the last. the anchor come up with a sob and the rid sail belly a troop steady her at the wheel. up jib and foresail say he. 
slip em in the smother shout long jack make fast the jib sheet while the others raise the clack rattle ring of the foresail. and the fore boom creak a the we re here look up into the wind and dive off into blank whirl white. 
there s wind behind this fog say troop. 
it be all wonderful beyond word to harvey. and the most wonderful part be that he hear no order except an occasional grunt from troop end with that s good my son. 
never see anchor weigh before. say tom platt to harvey gap at the damp canvas of the foresail. 
no. where be we go. 
fish and make berth a you ll find out fore you ve bin a week aboard. it s all new to you but we never know what may come to u. now take me tom platt i d never ha think. 
it s good than fourteen dollar a month an a bullet in your belly say troop from the wheel. ease your jumbo a grind. 
dollar an cent good return the man o war s man do something to a big jib with a wooden spar tie to it. but we didn t think o that when we man the windlass brake on the miss jim buck [ ] outside beaufort harbor with fort macon heavin hot shoot at our stern an a livin gale atop of all. where be you then disko. 
jest here or hereabouts disko reply earnin my bread on the deep water and dodgin reb privateer. sorry i can t accommodate you with red hot shoot tom platt. but i guess we ll come aout all right on wind fore we see eastern point. 
there be an incessant slap and chatter at the bow now vary by a solid thud and a little spout of spray that clatter down on the fo c sle. the rig drip clammy drop and the men lounge along the lee of the house all save uncle salter who sit stiffly on the main hatch nurse his sting hand. 
[ ] the gemsbok u. s. n. 
guess she d carry stay l say disko roll one eye at his brother. 
guess she wouldn t to any sorter profit. what s the sense o wastin canvas. the farmer sailor reply. 
the wheel twitch almost imperceptibly in disko s hand. a few second late a hiss wave top slash diagonally across the boat smite uncle salter between the shoulder and drench him from head to foot. he rise sputter and go forward only to catch another. 
see dad chase him all around the deck say dan. uncle salter he think his quarter share s our canvas. dad s put this duckin act up on him two trip runnin. hi. that find him where he feed. uncle salter have take refuge by the foremast but a wave slap him over the knee. disko s face be a blank a the circle of the wheel. 
guess she d lie easy under stay l salter say disko a though he have see nothing. 
set your old kite then roar the victim through a cloud of spray. only don t lay it to me if anything happen. penn you go below right off an git your coffee. you ought to hev more sense than to bum araound on deck this weather. 
now they ll swill coffee an play checker till the cow come home say dan a uncle salter hustle penn into the fore cabin. look to me like s if we d all be doin so fer a spell. there s nothin in creation dead limpsey idle n a banker when she ain t on fish. 
i m glad ye speak danny cry long jack who have be cast round in search of amusement. i d clean forget we d a passenger under that t wharf hat. there s no idleness for thim that don t know their rope. pas him along tom platt an we ll l arn him. 
tain t my trick this time grin dan. you ve get to go it alone. dad learn me with a rope s end. 
for an hour long jack walk his prey up and down teach a he say thing at the sea that ivry man must know blind dhrunk or asleep. there be not much gear to a seventy ton schooner with a stump foremast but long jack have a gift of expression. when he wish to draw harvey s attention to the peak halyard he dig his knuckle into the back of the boy s neck and keep him at gaze for half a minute. he emphasise the difference between fore and aft generally by rub harvey s nose along a few foot of the boom and the lead of each rope be fix in harvey s mind by the end of the rope itself. 
the lesson would have be easy have the deck be at all free. but there appear to be a place on it for everything and anything except a man. forward lay the windlass and it tackle with the chain and hemp cable all very unpleasant to trip over. the fo c sle stovepipe and the gurry butt by the fo c sle hatch to hold the fish liver. aft of these the fore boom and booby of the main hatch take all the space that be not need for the pump and dress pen. then come the nest of dory lash to ring bolt by the quarter deck. the house with tub and oddment lash all around it. and last the sixty foot main boom in it crutch split thing lengthwise to duck and dodge under every time. 
tom platt of course could not keep his oar out of the business but range alongside with enormous and unnecessary description of sail and spar on the old ohio. 
niver mind fwhat he say. attind to me innocince. tom platt this bally hoo s not the ohio an you re mix the bhoy bad. 
he ll be ruin for life beginnin on a fore an after this way tom platt plead. give him a chance to know a few leadin principle. sailin s an art harvey a i d show you if i have ye in the foretop o the. 
i know ut. ye d talk him dead an cowld. silince tom platt. now after all i ve say how d you reef the foresail harve. take your time answerin. 
haul that in say harvey point to leeward. 
fwhat. the north atlantuc. 
no the boom. then run that rope you show me back there. 
that s no way tom platt burst in. 
quiet. he s l arnin an ha not the name good yet. go on harve. 
oh it s the reef pennant. i d hook the tackle on to the reef pennant and then let down. 
low the sail child. low. say tom platt in a professional agony. 
low the throat and peak halyard harvey go on. those name stick in his head. 
lay your hand on thim say long jack. 
harvey obey. low till that rope loop on the after leach kris no it s cringle till the cringle be down on the boom. then i d tie her up the way you say and then i d hoist up the peak and throat halyard again. 
you ve forget to pas the tack earing but wid time and help ye ll l arn. there s good and just reason for ivry rope aboard or else twould be overboard. d ye follow me. ti dollar an cent i m puttin into your pocket ye skinny little supercargo so that fwhin ye ve fill out ye can ship from boston to cuba an tell thim long jack l arned you. now i ll chase ye around a piece callin the rope an you ll lay your hand on thim a i call. 
he begin and harvey who be feel rather tire walk slowly to the rope name. a rope s end lick round his rib and nearly knock the breath out of him. 
when you own a boat say tom platt with severe eye you can walk. till then take all order at the run. once more to make sure. 
harvey be in a glow with the exercise and this last cut warm him thoroughly. now he be a singularly smart boy the son of a very clever man and a very sensitive woman with a fine resolute temper that systematic spoil have nearly turn to mulish obstinacy. he look at the other men and saw that even dan do not smile. it be evidently all in the day s work though it hurt abominably. so he swallow the hint with a gulp and a gasp and a grin. the same smartness that lead him to take such advantage of his mother make him very sure that no one on the boat except maybe penn would stand the least nonsense. one learn a great deal from a mere tone. long jack call over half a dozen more rope and harvey dance over the deck like an eel at ebb tide one eye on tom platt. 
v good. v good do say manuel. after supper i show you a little schooner i make with all her rope. so we shall learn. 
fust class fer a passenger say dan. dad he s jest allow you ll be wuth your salt maybe fore you re draownded. thet s a heap fer dad. i ll learn you more our next watch together. 
tall. grunt disko peer through the fog a it smoke over the bow. there be nothing to be see ten foot beyond the surge jib boom while alongside roll the endless procession of solemn pale wave whisper and up one to the other. 
now i ll learn you something long jack can t shout tom platt a from a locker by the stern he produce a batter deep sea lead hollow at one end smear the hollow from a saucer full of mutton tallow and go forward. i ll learn you how to fly the blue pigeon. shooo. 
disko do something to the wheel that check the schooner s way while manuel with harvey to help. and a proud boy be harvey. let down the jib in a lump on the boom. the lead sing a deep drone song a tom platt whirl it round and round. 
go ahead man say long jack impatiently. we re not drawin twenty five fut off fire island in a fog. there s no trick to ut. 
don t be jealous galway. the release lead plop into the sea far ahead a the schooner surge slowly forward. 
soundin be a trick though say dan when your dipsey lead s all the eye you re like to hev for a week. what d you make it dad. 
disko s face relax. his skill and honour be involve in the march he have steal on the rest of the fleet and he have his reputation a a master artist who know the bank blindfold. sixty mebbe ef i m any judge he reply with a glance at the tiny compass in the window of the house. 
sixty sing out tom platt haul in great wet coil. 
the schooner gather way once more. heave. say disko after a quarter of an hour. 
what d you make it. dan whisper and he look at harvey proudly. but harvey be too proud of his own performance to be impress just then. 
fifty say the father. i mistrust we re right over the nick o green bank on old sixty fifty. 
fifty. roar tom platt. they could scarcely see him through the fog. she s bu st within a yard like the shell at fort macon. 
bait up harve say dan dive for a line on the reel. 
the schooner seem to be stray promiscuously through the smother her head sail bang wildly. the men wait and look at the boy who begin fish. 
heugh. dan s line twitch on the score and scar rail. now haow in thunder do dad know. help u here harve. it s a big un. poke hook too. they haul together and land a goggle eye twenty pound cod. he have take the bait right into his stomach. 
why he s all cover with little crab cry harvey turn him over. 
by the great hook block they re lousy already say long jack. disko ye kape your spare eye under the keel. 
splash go the anchor and they all heave over the line each man take his own place at the bulwark. 
be they good to eat. harvey pant a he lug in another crab cover cod. 
sure. when they re lousy it s a sign they ve all be herdin together by the thousand and when they take the bait that way they re hungry. never mind how the bait set. they ll bite on the bare hook. 
say this be great. harvey cry a the fish come in gasp and splash nearly all poke hook a dan have say. why can t we always fish from the boat instead of from the dory. 
allus can till we begin to dress daown. efter thet the head and offal u d scare the fish to fundy. boat fishin ain t reckon progressive though unless ye know a much a dad know. guess we ll run aout aour trawl to night. hard on the back this than frum the dory ain t it. 
it be rather back break work for in a dory the weight of a cod be water bear till the last minute and you be so to speak abreast of him. but the few foot of a schooner s free board make so much extra dead haul and stoop over the bulwark cramp the stomach. but it be wild and furious sport so long a it last. and a big pile lay aboard when the fish cease bite. 
where s penn and uncle salter. harvey ask slap the slime off his oilskin and reel up the line in careful imitation of the others. 
git s coffee and see. 
under the yellow glare of the lamp on the pawl post the fo c sle table down and open utterly unconscious of fish or weather sit the two men a checker board between them uncle salter snarl at penn s every move. 
what s the matter naow. say the former a harvey one hand in the leather loop at the head of the ladder hang shout to the cook. 
big fish and lousy heap and heap harvey reply quote long jack. how s the game. 
little penn s jaw drop. tweren t none o his fault snap uncle salter. penn s deef. 
checker weren t it. say dan a harvey stagger aft with the steam coffee in a tin pail. that let u out o cleanin up to night. dad s a jest man. they ll have to do it. 
an two young feller i know ll bait up a tub or so o trawl while they re cleanin say disko lash the wheel to his taste. 
urn. guess i d ruther clean up dad. 
don t doubt it. ye wun t though. dress daown. dress daown. penn ll pitch while you two bait up. 
why in thunder didn t them blame boy tell u you d strike on. say uncle salter shuffle to his place at the table. this knife s gum blunt dan. 
ef stickin out cable don t wake ye guess you d good hire a boy o your own say dan muddle about in the dusk over the tub full of trawl line lash to windward of the house. oh harve don t ye want to slip down an git s bait. 
bait ez we be say disko. i mistrust shag fishin will pay good ez thing go. 
that mean the boy would bait with select offal of the cod a the fish be clean an improvement on paddle barehanded in the little bait barrel below. the tub be full of neatly coil line carry a big hook each few foot. and the test and bait of every single hook with the stowage of the bait line so that it should run clear when shoot from the dory be a scientific business. dan manage it in the dark without look while harvey catch his finger on the barb and bewail his fate. but the hook fly through dan s finger like tat on an old maid s lap. i help bait up trawl ashore fore i could well walk he say. but it s a putterin job all the same. oh dad. this shout towards the hatch where disko and tom platt be salt. how many skate you reckon we ll need. 
baout three. hurry. 
there s three hundred fathom to each tub dan explain. more n enough to lay out tonight. ouch. slip up there i do. he stick his finger in his mouth. i tell you harve there ain t money in gloucester u d hire me to ship on a reg lar trawler. it may be progressive but barrin that it s the putterin est slimjammest business top of earth. 
i don t know what this be if tisn t regular trawl say harvey sulkily. my finger be all cut to frazzle. 
pshaw. this be jest one o dad s blame experiment. he don t trawl le there s mighty good reason fer it. dad know. thet s why he s baitin ez he be. we ll hev her saggin full when we take her up er we win t see a fin. 
penn and uncle salter clean up a disko have ordain but the boy profit little. no sooner be the tub furnish than tom platt and long jack who have be explore the inside of a dory with a lantern snatch them away load up the tub and some small paint trawl buoy and heave the boat overboard into what harvey regard a an exceedingly rough sea. they ll be drown. why the dory s load like a freight car he cry. 
we ll be back say long jack an in case you ll not be lookin for u we ll lay into you both if the trawl s snarl. 
the dory surge up on the crest of a wave and just when it seem impossible that she could avoid smash against the schooner s side slide over the ridge and be swallow up in the damp dusk. 
take a hold here an keep ringin steady say dan pass harvey the lanyard of a bell that hang just behind the windlass. 
harvey ring lustily for he felt two life depend on him. but disko in the cabin scrawl in the log book do not look like a murderer and when he go to supper he even smile drily at the anxious harvey. 
this ain t no weather say dan. why you an me could set thet trawl. they ve only go out jest far nough so s not to foul our cable. they don t need no bell reelly. 
clang. cling. clang. harvey keep it up vary with occasional rub a dub for another half hour. there be a bellow and a bump alongside. manuel and dan race to the hook of the dory tackle. long jack and tom platt arrive on deck together it seem one half the north atlantic at their back and the dory follow them in the air land with a clatter. 
nary snarl say tom platt a he drip. danny you ll do yet. 
the pleasure av your comp ny to the banquit say long jack squelch the water from his boot a he caper like an elephant and stick an oilskinned arm into harvey s face. we do be condescend to honour the second half wid our presence. and off they all four roll to supper where harvey stuff himself to the brim on fish chowder and fry pie and fell fast asleep just a manuel produce from a locker a lovely two foot model of the lucy holmes his first boat and be go to show harvey the rope. harvey never even twiddle his finger a penn push him into his bunk. 
it must be a sad thing a very sad thing say penn watch the boy s face for his mother and his father who think he be dead. to lose a child to lose a man child. 
git out o this penn say dan. go aft and finish your game with uncle salter. tell dad i ll stand harve s watch ef he don t keer. he s play aout. 
v good boy say manuel slip out of his boot and disappear into the black shadow of the low bunk. expec he make good man danny. i no see he be any so mad a your parpa he say. eh wha at. 
dan chuckle but the chuckle end in a snore. 
it be thick weather outside with a rise wind and the elder men stretch their watch. the hour strike clear in the cabin. the nose bow slap and scuffle with the sea. the fo c sle stovepipe hiss and sputter a the spray catch it. and the boy sleep on while disko long jack tom plait and uncle salter each in turn stump aft to look at the wheel forward to see that the anchor hold or to veer out a little more cable against chafe with a glance at the dim anchor light between each round. 
chapter iv. 
harvey wake to find the first half at breakfast the fo c sle door draw to a crack and every square inch of the schooner sing it own tune. the black bulk of the cook balance behind the tiny galley over the glare of the stave and the pot and pan in the pierce wooden board before it jar and racket to each plunge. up and up the fo c sle climb yearn and surge and quiver and then with a clear sickle like swoop come down into the sea. he could hear the flare bow cut and squelch and there be a pause ere the divide water come down on the deck above like a volley of buck shoot. follow the woolly sound of the cable in the hawse hole. a grunt and squeal of the windlass. a yaw a punt and a kick and the we re here gather herself together to repeat the motion. 
now ashore he hear long jack say ye ve chore an ye must do thim in any weather. here we re well clear of the fleet an we ve no chore an that s a blessin. good night all. he pass like a big snake from the table to his bunk and begin to smoke. tom platt follow his example. uncle salter with penn fight his way up the ladder to stand his watch and the cook set for the second half. 
it come out of it bunk a the others have enter theirs with a shake and a yawn. it eat till it could eat no more. and then manuel fill his pipe with some terrible tobacco crotched himself between the pawl post and a forward bunk cock his foot up on the table and smile tender and indolent smile at the smoke. dan lay at length in his bunk wrestle with a gaudy gild stop accordion whose tune go up and down with the pitch of the we re here. the cook his shoulder against the locker where he keep the fry pie. dan be fond of fry pie. peel potato with one eye on the stave in event of too much water find it way down the pipe. and the general smell and smother be past all description. 
harvey consider affair wonder that he be not deathly sick and crawl into his bunk again a the soft and safe place while dan strike up i don t want to play in your yard a accurately a the wild jerk allow. 
how long be this for. harvey ask of manuel. 
till she get a little quiet and we can row to trawl. perhaps to night. perhaps two day more. you do not like. eh wha at. 
i should have be crazy sick a week ago but it doesn t seem to upset me now much. 
that be because we make you fisherman these day. if i be you when i come to gloucester i would give two three big candle for my good luck. 
give who. 
to be sure the virgin of our church on the hill. she be very good to fisherman all the time. that be why so few of u portugee men ever be drown. 
you re a roman catholic then. 
i be a madeira man. i be not a porto pico boy. shall i be baptist then. eh wha at. i always give candle two three more when i come to gloucester. the good virgin she never forget me manuel. 
i don t sense it that way tom platt put in from his bunk his scar face light up by the glare of a match a he suck at his pipe. it stand to reason the sea s the sea. and you ll git jest about what s goin candle or kerosene fer that matter. 
ti a mighty good thing say long jack to have a fri nd at coort though. i m o manuel s way o thinkin. about tin year back i be crew to a sou boston market boat. we be off minot s ledge wid a northeast butt first atop of u thick n burgoo. the ould man be dhrunk his chin waggin on the tiller an i sez to myself if iv i stick my boat huk into t wharf again i ll show the saint fwhat manner o craft they save me out av. now i m here a ye can well see an the model of the dhirty ould kathleen that take me a month to make i give ut to the priest an he hang ut up forninst the altar. there s more sense in givin a model that s by way o bein a work av art than any candle. ye can buy candle at store but a model show the good saint ye ve tuk trouble an be grateful. 
d you believe that irish. say tom platt turn on his elbow. 
would i do ut if i do not ohio. 
wa al enoch full he make a model o the old ohio and she s to salem museum now. mighty pretty model too but i guess enoch he never do it fer no sacrifice. an the way i take it be. 
there be the making of an hour long discussion of the kind that fisherman love where the talk run in shout circle and no one prof anything at the end have not dan strike up this cheerful rhyme. 
up jump the mackerel with his strip back. reef in the mainsail and haul on the tack. for it s windy weather. 
here long jack join in. 
and it s blowy weather. when the wind begin to blow pipe all hand together. 
dan go on with a cautious look at tom plait hold the accordion low in the bunk. 
up jump the cod with his chuckle head go to the main chain to heave at the lead. for it s windy weather etc. 
tom platt seem to be hunt for something. dan crouch low but sing loud. 
up jump the flounder that swim to the grind. chuckle head. chuckle head. mind where ye sound. 
tom platt s huge rubber boot whirl across the fo c sle and catch dan s uplift arm. there be war between the man and the boy ever since dan have discover that the mere whistle of that tune would make him angry a he heave the lead. 
think i d fetch yer say dan return the gift with precision. ef you don t like my music git out your fiddle. i ain t goin to lie here all day an listen to you an long jack arguin baout candle. fiddle tom platt. or i ll learn harve here the tune. 
tom platt lean down to a locker and bring up an old white fiddle. manuel s eye glisten and from somewhere behind the pawl post he draw out a tiny guitar like thing with wire string which he call a machette. 
ti a concert say long jack beam through the smoke. a reg lar boston concert. 
there be a burst of spray a the hatch open and disko in yellow oilskin descend. 
ye re just in time disko. fwhat s she doin outside. 
jest this. he drop on to the locker with the push and heave of the we re here. 
we re singin to kape our breakfast down. ye ll lead av course disko say long jack. 
guess there ain t more n baout two old song i know an ye ve heerd them both. 
his excuse be cut short by tom platt launch into a most dolorous tune like unto the moan of wind and the creak of mast. with his eye fix on the beam above disko begin this ancient ancient ditty tom platt flourish all round him to make the tune and word fit a little. 
there be a crack packet crack packet o fame she hail from noo york an the dreadnought s her name. you may talk o your flier swallow tail and black ball but the dreadnought s the packet that can beat them all. 
now the dreadnought she lie in the river mersey because of the tugboat to take her to sea. but when she s off sounding you shortly will know. chorus. she s the liverpool packet o lord let her go. 
now the dreadnought she s howlin crost the bank o newfoundland where the water s all shallow and the bottom s all sand. sez all the little fish that swim to an fro. chorus. she s the liverpool packet o lord let her go. 
there be score of verse for he work the dreadnought every mile of the way between liverpool and new york a conscientiously a though he be on her deck and the accordion pump and the fiddle squeak beside him. tom platt follow with something about the rough and tough mcginn who would pilot the vessel in. then they call on harvey who felt very flatter to contribute to the entertainment. but all that he could remember be some piece of skipper ireson s ride that he have be teach at the camp school in the adirondacks. it seem that they might be appropriate to the time and place but he have no more than mention the title when disko bring down one foot with a bang and cry don t go on young feller. that s a mistake jedgment one o the bad kind too becaze it s catchin to the ear. 
i orter ha warn you say dan. thet allus fetch dad. 
what s wrong. say harvey surprise and a little angry. 
all you re goin to say say disko. all dead wrong from start to finish an whittier he s to blame. i have no special call to right any marblehead man but tweren t no fault o ireson s. my father he tell me the tale time an again an this be the way twuz. 
for the wan hundreth time put in long jack under his breath. 
ben ireson he be skipper o the betty young feller comin home frum the bank that be before the war of but jestice be jestice at all time. they f und the active o portland an gibbon o that town he be her skipper. they f und her leakin off cape cod light. there be a terr ble gale on an they be gettin the betty home s fast a they could craowd her. well ireson he say there warn t any sense to reskin a boat in that sea. the men they wouldn t hev it. and he lay it before them to stay by the active till the sea run daown a piece. they wouldn t hev that either hangin araound the cape in any sech weather leak or no leak. they jest up stay l an quit nat rally takin ireson with em. folk to marblehead be mad at him not runnin the risk and becaze nex day when the sea be ca be. they never stop to think o that. some of the active s folk be take off by a truro man. they come into marblehead with their own tale to tell sayin how ireson have sham his town an so forth an so on. an ireson s men they be scar seem public feelin ag in em an they go back on ireson an swear he be respons ble for the hull act. tweren t the woman neither that tar and feather him marblehead woman don t act that way twas a passel o men an boy an they cart him araound town in an old dory till the bottom fell aout an ireson he tell em they d be sorry for it some day. well the fact come aout late same s they usually do too late to be any way useful to an honest man. an whittier he come along an pick up the slack eend of a lyin tale an tar and feather ben ireson all over onct more after he be dead. twas the only time whittier ever slip up an tweren t fair. i whale dan good when he bring that piece back from school. you don t know no good o course. but i ve give you the fact hereafter an evermore to be remember. ben ireson weren t no sech kind o man a whittier make aout. my father he know him well before an after that business an you beware o hasty jedgments young feller. next. 
harvey have never hear disko talk so long and collapse with burn cheek. but a dan say promptly a boy could only learn what he be teach at school and life be too short to keep track of every lie along the coast. 
then manuel touch the jangle jar little machette to a queer tune and sing something in portuguese about nina innocente. end with a full hand sweep that bring the song up with a jerk. then disko oblige with his second song to an old fashion creaky tune and all join in the chorus. this be one stanza. 
now aprile be over and melt the snow and out noo bedford we shortly must tow. yes out o noo bedford we shortly must clear we re the whaler that never see wheat in the ear. 
here the fiddle go very softly for a while by itself and then. 
wheat in the ear my true love s posy blowin. wheat in the ear we re goin off to sea. wheat in the ear i leave you fit for sowin. when i come back a loaf o bread you ll be. 
that make harvey almost weep though he could not tell why. but it be much bad when the cook drop the potato and hold out his hand for the fiddle. still lean against the locker door he strike into a tune that be like something very bad but sure to happen whatever you do. after a little he sing in an unknown tongue his big chin down on the fiddle tail his white eyeball glare in the lamplight. harvey swing out of his bunk to hear good. and amid the strain of the timber and the wash of the water the tune croon and moan on like lee surf in a blind fog till it end with a wail. 
jimmy christmas. thet give me the blue creevles say dan. 
what in thunder be it. 
the song of fin mccoul say the cook when he wa go to norway. his english be not thick but all clear cut a though it come from a phonograph. 
faith i ve be to norway but i didn t make that unwholesim noise. ti like some of the old song though say long jack sigh. 
don t let s hev another thout somethin between say dan. and the accordion strike up a rattle catchy tune that end. 
it s six an twenty sunday sence la we saw the land with fifteen hunder quintal an fifteen hunder quintal teen hunder toppin quintal twix old queereau an grand. 
hold on. roar tom plait d ye want to nail the trip dan. that s jonah sure le you sing it after all our salt s wet. 
no tain t. be it dad. not unless you sing the very la verse. you can t learn me anything on jonah. 
what s that. say harvey. what s a jonah. 
a jonah s anything that spoil the luck. sometimes it s a man sometimes it s a boy or a bucket. i ve know a splittin knife jonah two trip till we be on to her say tom plait. there s all sort o jonah. jim bourke be one till he be drown on george. i d never ship with jim bourke not if i be starvin. there wuz a green dory on the ezra flood. thet be a jonah too the bad sort o jonah. drown four men she do an use to shine fiery o night in the nest. 
and you believe that. say harvey remember what tom platt have say about candle and model. haven t we all get to take what s serve. 
a mutter of dissent run round the bunk. outboard yes. inboard thing can happen say disko. don t you go makin a mock of jonah young feller. 
well harve ain t no jonah. day after we catch him dan cut in we have a toppin good catch. 
the cook throw up his head and laugh suddenly a queer thin laugh. he be a most disconcert nigger. murder. say long jack. don t do that again doctor. we ain t use to ut. 
what s wrong. say dan. ain t he our mascot and didn t they strike on good after we d strike him. 
oh. yes say the cook. i know that but the catch i not finish yet. 
he ain t goin to do u any harm say dan hotly. where be ye hintin an edgin to. he s all right. 
no harm. no. but one day he will be your master danny. 
that all. say dan placidly. he wun t not by a jugful. 
master. say the cook point to harvey. man. and he point to dan. 
that s news. haow soon. say dan with a laugh. 
in some year and i shall see it. master and man man and master. 
how in thunder d ye work that out. say tom platt. 
in my head where i can see. 
haow. this from all the others at once. 
i do not know but so it will be. he drop his head and go on peel the potato and not another word could they get out of him. 
well say dan a heap o thing ll hev to come abaout fore harve s any master o mine. but i m glad the doctor ain t choosen to mark him for a jonah. now i mistrust uncle salter fer the jonerest jonah in the fleet regardin his own special luck. dunno ef it s spreadin same s smallpox. he ought to be on the carrie pitman. that boat s her own jonah sure crew an gear make no differ to her driftin. jimmy christmas. she ll etch loose in a flat ca be. 
we re well dear o the fleet anyway say disko carrie pitman an all. there be a rap on the deck. 
uncle salter ha catch his luck say dan a his father depart. 
it s blow clear disko cry and all the fo c sle tumble up for a bite of fresh air. the fog have go but a sullen sea run in great roller behind it. the we re here slide a it be into long sink avenue and ditch which felt quite shelter and homelike if they would only stay still. but they change without rest or mercy and fling up the schooner to crown one peak of a thousand grey hill while the wind hoot through her rig a she zigzag down the slope. far away a sea would burst in a sheet of foam and the others would follow suit a at a signal till harvey s eye swim with the vision of interlace white and grey. four or five mother carey s chicken storm round in circle shriek a they sweep past the bow. a rain squall or two stray aimlessly over the hopeless waste run down wind and back again and melt away. 
seem to me i saw somethin flicker jest naow over yonder say uncle salter point to the northeast. 
can t be any of the fleet say disko peer under his eyebrow a hand on the fo c sle gangway a the solid bow hatcheted into the trough. sea s oilin over dretful fast. danny don t you want to skip up a piece an see how aour trawl buoy lay. 
danny in his big boot trot rather than climb up the main rig. this consume harvey with envy. hitch himself around the reel crosstrees and let his eye rove till it catch the tiny black buoy flag on the shoulder of a mile away swell. 
she s all right he hail. sail o. dead to the no th ard comin down like smoke. schooner she be too. 
they wait yet another half hour the sky clear in patch with a flicker of sickly sun from time to time that make patch of olive green water. then a stump foremast lift duck and disappear to be follow on the next wave by a high stern with old fashion wooden snail s horn davit. the sail be red tan. 
frenchman. shout dan. no tain t neither. da ad. 
that s no french say disko. salter your blame luck hold tight n a screw in a keg head. 
i ve eye. it s uncle abishai. 
you can t nowise tell fer sure. 
the head king of all jonah groan tom platt. oh salter salter why wasn t you abed an asleep. 
how could i tell. say poor salter a the schooner swing up. 
she might have be the very fly dutchman so foul draggle and unkempt be every rope and stick aboard. her old style quarter deck be some four or five foot high and her rig fly knot and tangle like weed at a wharf end. she be run before the wind yaw frightfully her staysail let down to act a a sort of extra foresail scandalise they call it and her fore boom guy out over the side. her bowsprit cock up like an old fashion frigate s. her jib boom have be fish and splice and nail and clamp beyond further repair. and a she heave herself forward and sit down on her broad tail she look for all the world like a blowzy frousy bad old woman sneer at a decent girl. 
that s abishai say salter. full o gin an judique men an the judgment o providence layin fer him an never takin good holt. he s run in to bait miquelon way. 
he ll run her under say long jack. that s no rig fer this weather. 
not he r he d a do it long ago disko reply. look s if he cal lated to run u under. ain t she daown by the head more n natural tom platt. 
ef it s his style o loadin her she ain t safe say the sailor slowly. ef she s spew her oakum he d good git to his pump mighty quick. 
the creature thrash up wear round with a clatter and rattle and lay head to wind within ear shoot. 
a greybeard wag over the bulwark and a thick voice yell something harvey could not understand. but disko s face darken. he d resk every stick he hez to carry bad news. say we re in fer a shift o wind. he s in fer bad. abishai. abishai. he wave his arm up and down with the gesture of a man at the pump and point forward. the crew mock him and laugh. 
jounce ye an strip ye an trip ye. yell uncle abishai. a livin gale a livin gale. yah. cast up fer your last trip all you gloucester haddock. you win t see gloucester no more no more. 
crazy full a usual say tom platt. wish he hadn t spy u though. 
she drift out of hear while the greyhead yell something about a dance at the bay of bull and a dead man in the fo c sle. harvey shudder. he have see the sloven till deck and the savage eye crew. 
an that s a fine little floatin hell fer her draught say long jack. i wondher what mischief he s be at ashore. 
he s a trawler dan explain to harvey an he run in fer bait all along the coast. oh no not home he don t go. he deal along the south an east shore up yonder. he nod in the direction of the pitiless newfoundland beach. dad win t never take me ashore there. they re a mighty tough crowd an abishai s the tough. you saw his boat. well she s nigh seventy year old they say. the last o the old marblehead heel tapper. they don t make them quarter deck any more. abishai don t use marblehead though. he ain t want there. he jes drif s araound in debt trawlin an cussin like you ve hear. bin a jonah fer year an year he hez. git liquor frum the feecamp boat fer makin spell an sell wind an such truck. crazy i guess. 
twon t be any use underrunnin the trawl to night say tom platt with quiet despair. he come alongside special to cuss u. i d give my wage an share to see him at the gangway o the old ohio fore we quit floggin. jest abaout six dozen an sam mocatta layin em on crisscross. 
the dishevel heel tapper dance drunkenly down wind and all eye follow her. suddenly the cook cry in his phonograph voice. it wa his own death make him speak so. he i fey fey i tell you. look. she sail into a patch of watery sunshine three or four mile distant. the patch dull and fade out and even a the light pass so do the schooner. she drop into a hollow and be not. 
run under by the great hook block. shout disko jump aft. drink or sober we ve get to help em. heave short and break her out. smart. 
harvey be throw on the deck by the shock that follow the set of the jib and foresail for they heave short on the cable and to save time jerk the anchor bodily from the bottom heave in a they move away. this be a bite of brute force seldom resort to except in matter of life and death and the little we re here complain like a human. they run down to where abishai s craft have vanish. find two or three trawl tub a gin bottle and a stave in dory but nothing more. let em go say disko though no one have hint at pick them up. i wouldn t hev a match that belong to abishai aboard. guess she run clear under. must ha be spewin her oakum fer a week an they never think to pump her. that s one more boat go along o leavin port all hand drink. 
glory be. say long jack. we d ha be oblige to help em if they be top o water. 
thinkin o that myself say tom platt. 
fey. fey. say the cook roll his eye. he ha take his own luck with him. 
v good thing i think to tell the fleet when we see. eh wha at. say manuel. if you runna that way before the wind and she work open her seam he throw out his hand with an indescribable gesture while penn sit down on the house and sob at the sheer horror and pity of it all. harvey could not realise that he have see death on the open water but he felt very sick. 
then dan go up the crosstrees and disko steer them back to within sight of their own trawl buoy just before the fog blanket the sea once again. 
we go mighty quick hereabouts when we do go be all he say to harvey. you think on that for a spell young feller. that be liquor. 
after dinner it be calm enough to fish from the deck penn and uncle salter be very zealous this time and the catch be large and large fish. 
abishai ha shorely take his luck with him say salter. the wind hain t back ner riz ner nothin. how abaout the trawl. i despise superstition anyway. 
tom platt insist that they have much good haul the thing and make a new berth. but the cook say. the luck i in two piece. you will find it so when you look. i know. this so tickle long jack that he overbear tom platt and the two go out together. 
underrunning a trawl mean pull it in on one side of the dory pick off the fish rebaiting the hook and pass them back to the sea again something like pin and unpin linen on a wash line. it be a lengthy business and rather dangerous for the long sag line may twitch a boat under in a flash. but when they hear and naow to thee o capting boom out of the fog the crew of the we re here take heart. the dory swirl alongside well load tom platt yell for manuel to act a relief boat. 
the luck s cut square in two piece say long jack fork in the fish while harvey stand open mouth at the skill with which the plunge dory be save from destruction. one half be jest punkins. tom platt want to haul her an ha do wid ut. but i say i ll back the doctor that ha the second sight an the other half come up sag full o big un. hurry man nle an bring s a tub o bait. there s luck afloat tonight. 
the fish bite at the newly bait hook from which their brother have just be take and tom platt and long jack move methodically up and down the length of the trawl the boat s nose surge under the wet line of hook strip the sea cucumber that they call pumpkin slat off the fresh catch cod against the gunwale rebaiting and load manuel s dory till dusk. 
i ll take no risk say disko then not with him floatin around so near. abishai win t sink fer a week. heave in the dory an we ll dressdaown after supper. 
that be a mighty dress down attend by three or four blow grampus. it last till nine o clock and disko be thrice hear to chuckle a harvey pitch the split fish into the hold. 
say you re haulin ahead dretful fast say dan when they grind the knife after the men have turn in. there s somethin of a sea tonight an i hain t hear you make no remark on it. 
too busy harvey reply test a blade s edge. come to think of it she be a high kicker. 
the little schooner be gambol all around her anchor among the silver tip wave. back with a start of affect surprise at the sight of the strain cable she pounce on it like a kitten while the spray of her descent burst through the hawse hole with the report of a gun. shake her head she would say. well i m sorry i can t stay any long with you. i m go north and would sidle off halt suddenly with a dramatic rattle of her rig. a i be just go to observe she would begin a gravely a a drunken man address a lamp post. the rest of the sentence. she act her word in dumb show of course. be lose in a fit of the fidget when she behave like a puppy chew a string a clumsy woman in a side saddle a hen with her head cut off or a cow sting by a hornet exactly a the whim of the sea take her. 
see her sayin her piece. she s patrick henry naow say dan. 
she swing sideways on a roller and gesticulate with her jib boom from port to starboard. 
but ez fer me give me liberty er give me death. 
wop. she sit down in the moon path on the water courtesying with a flourish of pride impressive enough have not the wheel gear snigger mockingly in it box. 
harvey laugh aloud. why it s just a if she be alive he say. 
she s a stiddy a a haouse an a dry a a herrin say dan enthusiastically a he be sting across the deck in a batter of spray. fend em off an fend em off an don t ye come anigh me she sez. look at her jest look at her. sake. you should see one o them toothpick h istin up her anchor on her spike out fifteen fathom water. 
what s a toothpick dan. 
them new haddockers an herrin boat. fine s a yacht forward with yacht stern to em an spike bowsprit an a haouse that u d take our hold. i ve hear that burgess himself he make the model fer three or four of em dad s sot ag in em on account o their pitchin an joltin but there s heap o money in em. dad can find fish but he ain t no way progressive he don t go with the march o the time. they re chock full o labour savin jig an sech all. ever seed the elector o gloucester. she s a daisy ef she be a toothpick. 
what do they cost dan. 
hill o dollar. fifteen thousand p hap. more mebbe. there s gold leaf an everything you kin think of. then to himself half under his breath guess i d call her hattie s. too. 
chapter v. 
that be the first of many talk with dan who tell harvey why he would transfer his dory s name to the imaginary burgess model haddocker. harvey hear a good deal about the real hattie at gloucester. saw a lock of her hair which dan find fair word of no avail have hook a she sit in front of him at school that winter and a photograph. hattie be about fourteen year old with an awful contempt for boy and have be trample on dan s heart through the winter. all this be reveal under oath of solemn secrecy on moonlit deck in the dead dark or in choke fog. the whine wheel behind them the climb deck before and without the unresting clamorous sea. once of course a the boy come to know each other there be a fight which rag from bow to stern till penn come up and separate them but promise not to tell disko who think fight on watch rather bad than sleep. harvey be no match for dan physically but it say a great deal for his new train that he take his defeat and do not try to get even with his conqueror by underhand method. 
that be after he have be cure of a string of boil between his elbow and wrist where the wet jersey and oilskin cut into the flesh. the salt water sting them unpleasantly but when they be ripe dan treat them with disko s razor and assure harvey that now he be a blood banker. the affliction of gurry sore be the mark of the caste that claim him. 
since he be a boy and very busy he do not bother his head with too much think. he be exceedingly sorry for his mother and often long to see her and above all to tell her of his wonderful new life and how brilliantly he be acquit himself in it. otherwise he prefer not to wonder too much how she be bear the shock of his suppose death. but one day a he stand on the fo c sle ladder guy the cook who have accuse him and dan of hook fry pie it occur to him that this be a vast improvement on be snub by stranger in the smoke room of a hire liner. 
he be a recognise part of the scheme of thing on the we re here. have his place at the table and among the bunk. and could hold his own in the long talk on stormy day when the others be always ready to listen to what they call his fairy tale of his life ashore. it do not take him more than two day and a quarter to feel that if he speak of his own life it seem very far away no one except dan. and even dan s belief be sorely try. credit him. so he invent a friend a boy he have hear of who drive a miniature four pony drag in toledo ohio and order five suit of clothe at a time and lead thing call german at party where the old girl be not quite fifteen but all the present be solid silver. salter protest that this kind of yarn be desperately wicked if not indeed positively blasphemous but he listen a greedily a the others. and their criticism at the end give harvey entirely new notion on german clothe cigarette with gold leaf tip ring watch scent small dinner party champagne card play and hotel accommodation. little by little he change his tone when speak of his friend whom long jack have christen the crazy kid the gild edge baby the suckin vanderpoop and other pet name. and with his sea boot foot cock up on the table would even invent history about silk pajama and specially import neckwear to the friend s discredit. harvey be a very adaptable person with a keen eye and ear for every face and tone about him. 
before long he know where disko keep the old green crust quadrant that they call the hog yoke under the bed bag in his bunk. when he take the sun and with the help of the old farmer s almanac find the latitude harvey would jump down into the cabin and scratch the reckon and date with a nail on the rust of the stave pipe. now the chief engineer of the liner could have do no more and no engineer of thirty year service could have assume one half of the ancient mariner air with which harvey first careful to spit over the side make public the schooner s position for that day and then and not till then relieve disko of the quadrant. there be an etiquette in all these thing. 
the say hog yoke an eldridge chart the farm almanac blunt s coast pilot and bowditch s navigator be all the weapon disko need to guide him except the deep sea lead that be his spare eye. harvey nearly slew penn with it when tom platt teach him first how to fly the blue pigeon. and though his strength be not equal to continuous sound in any sort of a sea for calm weather with a seven pound lead on shoal water disko use him freely. a dan say. tain t soundin s dad want. it s sample. grease her up good harve. harvey would tallow the cup at the end and carefully bring the sand shell sludge or whatever it might be to disko who finger and smelt it and give judgment. a ha be say when disko think of cod he think a a cod. and by some long test mixture of instinct and experience move the we re here from berth to berth always with the fish a a blindfold chess player move on the unseen board. 
but disko s board be the grand bank a triangle two hundred and fifty mile on each side a waste of wallow sea cloak with dank fog vex with gale harry with drift ice score by the track of the reckless liner and dot with the sail of the fish fleet. 
for day they work in fog harvey at the bell till grow familiar with the thick air he go out with tom platt his heart rather in his mouth. but the fog would not lift and the fish be bite and no one can stay helplessly afraid for six hour at a time. harvey devote himself to his line and the gaff or gob stick a tom platt call for them. and they row back to the schooner guide by the bell and tom s instinct. manuel s conch sound thin and faint beside them. but it be an unearthly experience and for the first time in a month harvey dream of the shift smoke floor of water round the dory the line that stray away into nothing and the air above that melt on the sea below ten foot from his strain eye. a few day late he be out with manuel on what should have be forty fathom bottom but the whole length of the roding run out and still the anchor find nothing and harvey grow mortally afraid for that his last touch with earth be lose. whale hole say manuel haul in. that be good joke on disko. come. and he row to the schooner to find tom platt and the others jeer at the skipper because for once he have lead them to the edge of the barren whale deep the blank hole of the grand bank. they make another berth through the fog and that time the hair of harvey s head stand up when he go out in manuel s dory. a whiten move in the whiten of the fog with a breath like the breath of the grave and there be a roar a plunge and spout. it be his first introduction to the dread summer berg of the bank and he cower in the bottom of the boat while manuel laugh. there be day though clear and soft and warm when it seem a sin to do anything but loaf over the hand line and spank the drift sun scald with an oar. and there be day of light air when harvey be teach how to steer the schooner from one berth to another. 
it thrill through him when he first felt the keel answer to his hand on the spoke and slide over the long hollow a the foresail scythe back and forth against the blue sky. that be magnificent in spite of disko say that it would break a snake s back to follow his wake. but a usual pride run before a fall. they be sail on the wind with the staysail an old one luckily set and harvey jam her right into it to show dan how completely he have master the art. the foresail go over with a bang and the foregaff stab and rip through the stay sail which be of course prevent from go over by the mainstay. they lower the wreck in awful silence and harvey spend his leisure hour for the next few day under tom platt s lee learn to use a needle and palm. dan hoot with joy for a he say he have make the very same blunder himself in his early day. 
boylike harvey imitate all the men by turn till he have combine disko s peculiar stoop at the wheel long jack s swing overhand when the line be haul manuel s round shoulder but effective stroke in a dory and tom platt s generous ohio stride along the deck. 
ti beautiful to see how he take to ut say long jack when harvey be look out by the windlass one thick noon. i ll lay my wage an share ti more n half play actin to him an he consates himself he s a bowld mariner. watch his little bite av a back now. 
that s the way we all begin say tom platt. the boy they make believe all the time till they ve cheat emselves into bein men an so till they die pretendin an pretendin. i do it on the old ohio i know. stand my first watch harbor watch feelin fine n farragut. dan s full o the same kind o notion. see em now actin to be genewine moss back every hair a rope yarn an blood stockholm tar. he speak down the cabin stair. guess you re mistake in your judgment fer once disko. what in rome make ye tell u all here the kid be crazy. 
he wuz disko reply. crazy ez a loon when he come aboard. but i ll say he s sober up consid ble sence. i cure him. 
he yarn good say tom platt. t other night he tell u abaout a kid of his own size steerin a cunnin little rig an four pony up an down toledo ohio i think twas an givin supper to a crowd o sim lar kid. cur u kind o fairy tale but blame interestin. he know score of em. 
guess he strike em outen his own head disko call from the cabin where he be busy with the log book. stand to reason that sort be all make up. it don t take in no one but dan an he laugh at it. i ve hear him behind my back. 
y ever hear what sim on peter ca houn say when they whack up a match twix his sister hitty an lorin jerauld an the boy put up that joke on him daown to george. drawl uncle salter who be drip peaceably under the lee of the starboard dory nest. 
tom platt puff at his pipe in scornful silence. he be a cape cod man and have not know that tale more than twenty year. uncle salter go on with a rasp chuckle. 
sim on peter ca houn he say an he be jest right abaout lorin ha af on the taown he say an t other ha af blame fool. an they tell me she s marry a ich man. sim on peter ca houn he hedn t no roof to his mouth an talk that way. 
he didn t talk any pennsylvania dutch tom platt reply. you d good leave a cape man to tell that tale. the ca houns be gipsy frum way back. 
wal i don t profess to be any elocutionist salter say. i m comin to the moral o thing. that s jest abaout what aour harve be. ha af on the taown an t other ha af blame fool. an there s some ll believe he s a rich man. yah. 
do ye ever think how sweet twould be to sail wid a full crew o salter. say long jack. ha af in the furrer an other ha af in the muck heap a ca houn do not say an make out he s a fisherman. 
a little laugh go round at salter s expense. 
disko hold his tongue and work over the log book that he keep in a hatchet face square hand. this be the kind of thing that run on page after soil page. 
july. this day thick fog and few fish. make berth to northward. so end this day. 
july. this day come in with thick fog. catch a few fish. 
july. this day come in with light breeze from n. e. and fine weather. make a berth to eastward. catch plenty fish. 
july. this the sabbath come in with fog and light wind. so end this day. total fish catch this week. 
they never work on sunday but shave and wash themselves if it be fine and pennsylvania sing hymn. once or twice he suggest that if it be not an impertinence he think he could preach a little. uncle salter nearly jump down his throat at the mere notion remind him that he be not a preacher and mustn t think of such thing. we d hev him rememberin johnstown next salter explain an what would happen then. so they compromise on his read aloud from a book call josephus. it be an old leather bind volume smell of a hundred voyage very solid and very like the bible but enliven with account of battle and siege. and they read it nearly from cover to cover. otherwise penn be a silent little body. he would not utter a word for three day on end sometimes though he play checker listen to the song and laugh at the story. when they try to stir him up he would answer. i don t wish to seem unneighbourly but it be because i have nothing to say. my head feel quite empty. i ve almost forget my name. he would turn to uncle salter with an expectant smile. 
why pennsylvania pratt salter would shout. you ll fergit me next. 
no never penn would say shut his lip firmly. pennsylvania pratt of course he would repeat over and over. sometimes it be uncle salter who forget and tell him he be haskins or rich or mcvitty. but penn be equally content till next time. 
he be always very tender with harvey whom he pity both a a lose child and a a lunatic. and when salter saw that penn like the boy he relax too. salter be not an amiable person. he esteem it his business to keep the boy in order. and the first time harvey in fear and tremble on a still day manage to shin up to the main truck. dan be behind him ready to help. he esteem it his duty to hang salter s big sea boot up there a sight of shame and derision to the near schooner. with disko harvey take no liberty. not even when the old man drop direct order and treat him like the rest of the crew to don t you want to do so and so. and guess you d good and so forth. there be something about the clean shave lip and the pucker corner of the eye that be mightily sober to young blood. 
disko show him the mean of the thumb and prick chart which he say lay over any government publication whatsoever. lead him pencil in hand from berth to berth over the whole string of bank le have western banquereau st. pierre green and grand talk cod meantime. teach him too the principle on which the hog yoke be work. 
in this harvey excel dan for he have inherit a head for figure and the notion of steal information from one glimpse of the sullen bank sun appeal to all his keen wit. for other sea matter his age handicap him. a disko say he should have begin when he be ten. dan could bait up trawl or lay his hand on any rope in the dark. and at a pinch when uncle salter have a gurry sore on his palm could dress down by sense of touch. he could steer in anything short of half a gale from the feel of the wind on his face humour the we re here just when she need it. these thing he do a automatically a he skip about the rig or make his dory a part of his own will and body. but he could not communicate his knowledge to harvey. 
still there be a good deal of general information fly about the schooner on stormy day when they lay up in the fo c sle or sit on the cabin locker while spare eye bolt lead and ring roll and rattle in the pause of the talk. disko speak of whale voyage in the fifty. of great she whale slay beside their young. of death agony on the black toss sea and blood that spurt forty foot in the air. of boat smash to splinter. of patent rocket that go off wrong end first and bombard the tremble crew. of cut in and boil down and that terrible nip of when twelve hundred men be make homeless on the ice in three day wonderful tale all true. but more wonderful still be his story of the cod and how they argue and reason on their private business deep down below the keel. 
long jack s taste run more to the supernatural. he hold them silent with ghastly story of the yo hoe on monomoy beach that mock and terrify lonely clam digger. of sand walker and dune haunters who be never properly bury. of hide treasure on fire island guard by the spirit of kidd s men. of ship that sail in the fog straight over truro township. of that harbour in maine where no one but a strange will lie at anchor twice in a certain place because of a dead crew who row alongside at midnight with the anchor in the bow of their old fashion boat whistle not call but whistle for the soul of the man who break their rest. 
harvey have a notion that the east coast of his native land from mount desert south be populate chiefly by people who take their horse there in the summer and entertain in country house with hardwood floor and vantine portiere. he laugh at the ghost tale not a much a he would have do a month before but end by sit still and shudder. 
tom platt deal with his interminable trip round the horn on the old ohio in the flog day with a navy more extinct than the dodo the navy that pass away in the great war. he tell them how red hot shoot be drop into a cannon a wad of wet clay between them and the cartridge. how they sizzle and reek when they strike wood and how the little ship boy of the miss jim buck heave water over them and shout to the fort to try again. and he tell tale of blockade long week of sway at anchor vary only by the departure and return of steamer that have use up their coal. there be no change for the sail ship. of gale and cold cold that keep two hundred men night and day pound and chop at the ice on cable block and rig when the galley be a red hot a the fort s shoot and men drink cocoa by the bucket. tom platt have no use for steam. his service close when that thing be comparatively new. he admit that it be a specious invention in time of peace but look hopefully for the day when sail should come back again on ten thousand ton frigate with hundred and ninety foot boom. 
manuel s talk be slow and gentle all about pretty girl in madeira wash clothe in the dry bed of stream by moonlight under wave banana. legend of saint and tale of queer dance or fight away in the cold newfoundland bait port. salter be mainly agricultural. for though he read josephus and expound it his mission in life be to prove the value of green manure and specially of clover against every form of phosphate whatsoever. he grow libellous about phosphate. he drag greasy orange judd book from his bunk and intone them wag his finger at harvey to whom it be all greek. little penn be so genuinely pain when harvey make fun of salter s lecture that the boy give it up and suffer in polite silence. that be very good for harvey. 
the cook naturally do not join in these conversation. a a rule he speak only when it be absolutely necessary. but at time a queer gift of speech descend on him and he hold forth half in gaelic half in break english an hour at a time. he be specially communicative with the boy and he never withdraw his prophecy that one day harvey would be dan s master and that he would see it. he tell them of mail carry in the winter up cape breton way of the dog train that go to coudray and of the ram steamer arctic that break the ice between the mainland and prince edward island. then he tell them story that his mother have tell him of life far to the southward where water never freeze. and he say that when he die his soul would go to lie down on a warm white beach of sand with palm tree wave above. that seem to the boy a very odd idea for a man who have never see a palm in his life. then too regularly at each meal he would ask harvey and harvey alone whether the cook be to his taste. and this always make the second half laugh. yet they have a great respect for the cook s judgment and in their heart consider harvey something of a mascot by consequence. 
and while harvey be take in knowledge of new thing at each pore and hard health with every gulp of the good air the we re here go her way and do her business on the bank and the silvery grey kenches of well press fish mount high and high in the hold. no one day s work be out of the common but the average day be many and close together. 
naturally a man of disko s reputation be closely watch scrowged upon dan call it by his neighbour but he have a very pretty knack of give them the slip through the curdle glidy fog bank. disko avoid company for two reason. he wish to make his own experiment in the first place. and in the second he object to the mix gathering of a fleet of all nation. the bulk of them be mainly gloucester boat with a scatter from provincetown harwich chatham and some of the maine port but the crew draw from goodness know where. risk breed recklessness and when greed be add there be fine chance for every kind of accident in the crowd fleet which like a mob of sheep be huddle round some unrecognised leader. let the two jeraulds lead em say disko. we re baound to lay among em fer a spell on the eastern shoal. though ef luck hold we win t hev to lay long. where we be naow harve ain t consider noways good graound. 
ain t it. say harvey who be draw water. he have learn just how to wiggle the bucket. after an unusually long dress down. shouldn t mind strike some poor grind for a change then. 
all the graound i want to see don t want to strike her be eastern point say dan. say dad it look s if we wouldn t hev to lay more n two week on the shoal. you ll meet all the comp ny you want then harve. that s the time we begin to work. no reg lar meal fer no one then. mug up when ye re hungry an sleep when ye can t keep awake. good job you wasn t pick up a month late than you be or we d never ha have you dress in shape fer the old virgin. 
harvey understand from the eldridge chart that the old virgin and a nest of curiously name shoal be the turn point of the cruise and that with good luck they would wet the balance of their salt there. but see the size of the virgin. it be one tiny dot. he wonder how even disko with the hog yoke and the lead could find her. he learn late that disko be entirely equal to that and any other business and could even help others. a big four by five blackboard hang in the cabin and harvey never understand the need of it till after some blind thick day they hear the unmelodious toot of a foot power fog horn a machine whose note be a that of a consumptive elephant. 
they be make a short berth tow the anchor under their foot to save trouble. squarerigger bellowin fer his latitude say long jack. the drip red headsail of a bark glide out of the fog and the we re here ring her bell thrice use sea shorthand. 
the large boat back her topsail with shriek and shouting. 
frenchman say uncle salter scornfully. miquelon boat from st. malo. the farmer have a weatherly sea eye. i m most out baccy too disko. 
same here say tom platt. hi. backez vouz backez vouz. standez awayez you butt end mucho bono. where you from st. malo eh. 
ah ha. mucho bono. oui. oui. clos poulet st. malo. st. pierre et miquelon cry the other crowd wave woollen cap and laugh. then all together bord. bord. 
bring up the board danny. beat me how them frenchman fetch anywheres exceptin america s fairish broadly. forty six forty nine s good enough fer them. an i guess it s abaout right too. 
dan chalk the figure on the board and they hang it in the main rig to a chorus of mercis from the bark. 
seem kind unneighbourly to let em swedge off like this salter suggest feel in his pocket. 
hev ye learn french then sence last trip. say disko. i don t want no more stone ballast heave at u long o your calm miquelon boat footy cochin same s you do off le have. 
harmon rush he say that be the way to rise em. plain unite state be good enough fer me. we re all dretful short on terbakker. young feller don t you speak french. 
oh yes say harvey valiantly. and he bawl. hi. say. arretez vous. attendez. nous somme venant pour tabac. 
ah tabac tabac. they cry and laugh again. 
that hit em. let s heave a dory over anyway say tom platt. i don t exactly hold no certificate on french but i know another lingo that go i guess. come on harve an interpret. 
the raffle and confusion when he and harvey be haul up the bark s black side be indescribable. her cabin be all stick round with glare colour print of the virgin the virgin of newfoundland they call her. harvey find his french of no recognise bank brand and his conversation be limit to nod and grin. but tom platt wave his arm and get along swimmingly. the captain give him a drink of unspeakable gin and the opera comique crew with their hairy throat red cap and long knife greet him a a brother. then the trade begin. they have tobacco plenty of it american that have never pay duty to france. they want chocolate and cracker. harvey row back to arrange with the cook and disko who own the store and on his return the cocoa tin and cracker bag be count out by the frenchman s wheel. it look like a piratical division of loot. but tom platt come out of it rope with black pigtail and stuff with cake of chew and smoke tobacco. then those jovial mariner swing off into the mist and the last harvey hear be a gay chorus. 
par derriere chez ma tante il y a un bois joli et le rossignol y chante et le jour et la nuit. que donneriez vous belle qui i amnerait ici. je donnerai qubec sorel et saint denis. 
how be it my french didn t go and your sign talk do. harvey demand when the barter have be distribute among the we re here. 
sign talk. platt guffaw. well yes twas sign talk but a heap old n your french harve. them french boat be chock full o freemason an that s why. 
be you a freemason then. 
look that way don t it. say the man o war s man stuff his pipe. and harvey have another mystery of the deep sea to brood upon. 
chapter vi. 
the thing that strike him most be the exceedingly casual way in which some craft loaf about the broad atlantic. fish boat a dan say be naturally dependent on the courtesy and wisdom of their neighbour. but one expect good thing of steamer. that be after another interest interview when they have be chase for three mile by a big lumber old cattle boat all board over on the upper deck that smelt like a thousand cattle pen. a very excite officer yell at them through a speak trumpet and she lay and lollopped helplessly on the water while disko run the we re here under her lee and give the skipper a piece of his mind. where might ye be eh. ye don t deserve to be anywheres. you barn yard tramp go hoggin the road on the high sea with no blame consideration fer your neighbour an your eye in your coffee cup instid o in your silly head. 
at this the skipper dance on the bridge and say something about disko s own eye. we haven t have an observation for three day. d you suppose we can run her blind. he shout. 
wa al i can disko retort. what s come to your lead. et it. can t ye smell bottom or be them cattle too rank. 
what d ye fee em. say uncle salter with intense seriousness for the smell of the pen wake all the farmer in him. they say they fall off dretful on a v yage. dunno a it s any o my business but i ve a kind o notion that oil cake break small an sprinkle. 
thunder. say a cattle man in a red jersey a he look over the side. what asylum do they let his whisker out of. 
young feller salter begin stand up in the fore rig let me tell yeou fore we go any further that i ve. 
the officer on the bridge take off his cap with immense politeness. excuse me he say but i ve ask for my reckon. if the agricultural person with the hair will kindly shut his head the sea green barnacle with the wall eye may perhaps condescend to enlighten u. 
naow you ve make a show o me salter say disko angrily. he could not stand up to that particular sort of talk and snap out the latitude and longitude without more lecture. 
well tbat s a boat load of lunatic sure say the skipper a he ring up the engine room and toss a bundle of newspaper into the schooner. 
of all the blame fool next to you salter him an his crowd be abaout the likeliest i ve ever see say disko a the we re here slide away. i be jest givin him my jedgment on lullsikin round these water like a lose child an you must cut in with your fool farmin. can t ye never keep thing sep rate. 
harvey dan and the others stand back wink one to the other and full of joy. but disko and salter wrangle seriously till even salter argue that a cattle boat be practically a barn on blue water and disko insist that even if this be the case decency and fisher pride demand that he should have keep thing sep rate. long jack stand it in silence for a time an angry skipper make an unhappy crew and then he speak across the table after supper. 
fwhat s the good o bodderin fwhat they ll say. say he. 
they ll tell that tale ag in u fer year that s all say disko. oil cake sprinkle. 
with salt o course say salter impenitent read the farm report from a week old new york paper. 
it s plumb mortifyin to all my feelin s the skipper go on. 
can t see ut that way say long jack the peacemaker. look at here disko. be there another packet afloat this day in this weather c u d ha meet a tramp an over an above givin her her reckonin over an above that i say c u d ha discoorsed wid her quite intelligent on the management av steer an such at sea. forgit ut. av coorse they will not. twas the most compenjus conversation that iv accrue. double game an twice runnin all to u. dan kick harvey under the table and harvey choke in his cup. 
well say salter who felt that his honour have be somewhat plaster i say i didn t know a twuz any business o mine fore i speak. 
an right there say tom platt experience in discipline and etiquette right there i take it disko you should ha ask him to stop ef the conversation wuz likely in your jedgment to be anyways what it shouldn t. 
dunno but that s so say disko who saw his way to an honourable retreat from a fit of the dignity. 
why o course it be so say salter you bein skipper here. an i d cheerful hev stop on a hint not from any leadin or conviction but fer the sake o bearin an example to these two blame boy of aours. 
didn t i tell you harve twould come araound to u fore we d do. always those blame boy. but i wouldn t have miss the show fer a half share in a halibutter dan whisper. 
still thing should ha be kep sep rate say disko and the light of new argument light in salter s eye a he crumble cut plug into his pipe. 
there s a power av vartue in keepin thing sep rate say long jack intent on still the storm. that s fwhat steyning of steyning and hare s f und when he send counahan fer skipper on the marilla d. kuhn instid o cap. newton that be take with inflam t ry rheumatism an couldn t go. counahan the navigator we call him. 
nick counahan he never go aboard fer a night thout a pond o rum somewhere in the manifest say tom platt play up to the lead. he use to bum araound the c mission house to boston lookin fer the lord to make him captain of a towboat on his merit. sam coy up to atlantic avenoo give him his board free fer a year or more on account of his story. counahan the navigator. tck. tck. dead these fifteen year ain t he. 
seventeen i guess. he die the year the caspar mcveagh be build. but he could niver keep thing sep rate. steyning tuk him fer the reason the thief tuk the hot stave bekaze there be nothin else that season. the men be all to the bank and counahan he whack up an iverlastin hard crowd fer crew. rum. ye c u d ha float the marilla insurance and all in fwhat they stow aboard her. they lef boston harbour for the great grand bank wid a roarin nor west behind em an all hand full to the bung. an the hivens look after thim for divil a watch do they set an divil a rope do they lay hand to till they d see the bottom av a fifteen gallon cask o bug juice. that be about wan week so far a counahan remember. if i c u d only tell the tale a he tell ut. all that whoile the wind blow like ould glory an the marilla twas summer and they d give her a foretopmast strike her gait and keep ut. then counahan tuk the hog yoke an thrembled over it for a whoile an make out betwix that an the chart an the singin in his head that they be to the south ard o sable island gettin along glorious but speakin nothin. then they broach another keg an quit speculatin about anythin fer another spell. the marilla she lay down whin she drop boston light and she never lufted her lee rail up to that time hustlin on one an the same slant. but they saw no weed nor gull nor schooner. an prisintly they obsarved they d be out a matter o fourteen day and they mistrust the bank have suspinded payment. so they sound an get sixty fathom. that s me sez counahan. that s me iv ry time. i ve run her slat on the bank fer you an when we get thirty fathom we ll turn in like little men. counahan be the b y sez he. counahan the navigator. 
nex cast they get ninety. sez counahan. either the lead line s tuk too stretchin or else the bank s sink. 
they haul ut up bein just about in that state when ut seem right an reasonable and sit down on the deck countin the knot an gettin her snarl up hijjus. the marilla she d strike her gait and she hild ut an prisintly along come a tramp an counahan speak her. 
hey ye see any fishin boat now. sez he quite casual. 
there s lashin s av them off the irish coast sez the tramp. 
aah. go shake yerself sez counahan. fwhat have i to do wid the irish coast. 
then fwhat be ye doin here. sez the tramp. 
sufferin christianity. sez counahan. he always say that whin his pump suck an he be not feelin good. sufferin christianity. he sez where be i at. thirty five mile west sou west o cape clear sez the tramp if that s any consolation to you. 
counahan fetch wan jump four foot sivin inch measure by the cook. 
consolation. sez he bould ez brass. d ye take me fer a dialect. thirty five mile from cape clear an fourteen day from boston light. sufferin christianity ti a record an by the same token i ve a mother to skibbereen. think av ut. the gall av um. but ye see he could niver keep thing sep rate. 
the crew be mostly cork an kerry men barrin one marylander that want to go back but they call him a mutineer an they run the ould marilla into skibbereen an they have an illigant time visitin around with frinds on the ould sod fer a week. thin they wint back an it cost em two an thirty day to beat to the bank again. twas gettin on towards fall and grub be low so counahan run her back to boston wid no more bone to ut. 
and what do the firm say. harvey demand. 
fwhat could they. the fish be on the bank an counahan be at t wharf talkin av his record trip east. they tuk their satisfaction out av that an ut all come av not keepin the crew and the rum sep rate in the first place. an confusin skibbereen wid queereau in the second. counahan the navigator rest his sowl. he be an imprompju citizen. 
once i be in the lucy holmes say manuel in his gentle voice. they not want any of her feesh in gloucester. eh wha at. give u no price. so we go across the water and think to sell to some fayal man. then it blow fresh and we cannot see well. eh wha at. then it blow some more fresh and we go down below and drive very fast no one know where. by and by we see a land and it get some hot. then come two three nigger in a brick. eh wha at. we ask where we be and they say now what you all think. 
grand canary say disko after a moment. manuel shake his head smile. 
blanco say tom platt. 
no. bad than that. we be below bezagos and the brick she be from liberia. so we sell our feesh there. not bad so. eh wha at. 
can a schooner like this go right across to africa. say harvey. 
go araound the horn ef there s anythin worth goin fer and the grub hold aout say disko. my father he run his packet an she be a kind o pinkey abaout fifty ton i guess the rupert he run her over to greenland s icy mountain the year ha af our fleet be tryin after cod there. an what s more he take my mother along with him to show her haow the money be earn i presoom an they be all ice up an i be bear at disko. don t remember nothin abaout it o course. we come back when the ice ease in the spring but they name me fer the place. kind mean trick to put up on a baby but we re all baound to make mistake in aour life. 
sure. sure. say salter wag his head. all baound to make mistake an i tell you two boy here thet after you ve make a mistake ye don t make few n a hundred a day the next best thing s to own up to it like men. 
long jack wink one tremendous wink that embrace all hand except disko and salter and the incident be close. 
then they make berth after berth to the northward the dory out almost every day run along the east edge of the grand bank in thirty to forty fathom water and fish steadily. 
it be here harvey first meet the squid who be one of the best cod bait but uncertain in his mood. they be wake out of their bunk one black night by yell of squid o. from salter and for an hour and a half every soul aboard hang over his squid jig a piece of lead paint red and arm at the low end with a circle of pin bend backward like half open umbrella rib. the squid for some unknown reason like and wrap himself round this thing and be haul up ere he can escape from the pin. but a he leaf his home he squirt first water and next ink into his captor s face. and it be curious to see the men weave their head from side to side to dodge the shoot. they be a black a sweep when the flurry end. but a pile of fresh squid lay on the deck and the large cod think very well of a little shiny piece of squid tentacle at the tip of a clam bait hook. next day they catch many fish and meet the carrie pitman to whom they shout their luck and she want to trade seven cod for one fair size squid. but disko would not agree at the price and the carrie drop sullenly to leeward and anchor half a mile away in the hope of strike on to some for herself. 
disko say nothing till after supper when he send dan and manuel out to buoy the we re here s cable and announce his intention of turn in with the broad axe. dan naturally repeat these remark to a dory from the carrie who want to know why they be buoy their cable since they be not on rocky bottom. 
dad sez he wouldn t trust a ferryboat within five mile o you dan howl cheerfully. 
why don t he git out then. who s hinderin. say the other. 
cause you ve jest the same ez lee bow him an he don t take that from any boat not to speak o sech a driftin gurry butt a you be. 
she ain t driftin any this trip say the man angrily for the carrie pitman have an unsavoury reputation for break her grind tackle. 
then haow d you make berth. say dan. it s her best p int o sailin. an ef she s quit driftin what in thunder be you doin with a new jib boom. that shoot go home. 
hey you portugoosy organ grinder take your monkey back to gloucester. go back to school dan troop be the answer. 
o v alls. o v alls. yell dan who know that one of the carrie s crew have work in an overall factory the winter before. 
shrimp. gloucester shrimp. git aout you novy. 
to call a gloucester man a nova scotian be not well receive. dan answer in kind. 
novy yourself ye scrabble towner. ye chatham wrecker git aout with your brick in your stock in. and the force separate but chatham have the bad of it. 
i know haow twould be say disko. she s draw the wind raound already. some one oughter put a deesist on thet packet. she ll snore till midnight an jest when we re gittin our sleep she ll strike adrift. good job we ain t crowd with craft hereaways. but i ain t goin to up anchor fer chatham. she may hold. 
the wind which have haul round rise at sundown and blow steadily. there be not enough sea though to disturb even a dory s tackle but the carrie pitman be a law unto herself. at the end of the boy watch they hear the crack crack crack of a huge muzzle load revolver aboard her. 
glory glory hallelujah. sing dan. here she come dad. butt end first walkin in her sleep same s she do on queereau. 
have she be any other boat disko would have take his chance but now he cut the cable a the carrie pitman with all the north atlantic to play in lurch down directly upon them. the we re here under jib and rid sail give her no more room than be absolutely necessary disko do not wish to spend a week hunt for his cable but scuttle up into the wind a the carrie pass within easy hail a silent and angry boat at the mercy of a rake broadside of bank chaff. 
good evenin say disko raise his headgear an haow doe your garden grow. 
go to ohio an hire a mule say uncle salter. we don t want no farmer here. 
will i lend you my dory anchor. cry long jack. 
unship your rudder an stick it in the mud say tom platt. 
say. dan s voice rise shrill and high a he stand on the wheel box. sa ay. be there a strike in the o v all factory. or hev they hire girl ye shackamaxons. 
veer out the tiller line cry harvey and nail em to the bottom. that be a salt flavour jest he have be put up to by tom platt. manuel lean over the stern and yell. johnna morgan play the organ. ahaaaa. he flourish his broad thumb with a gesture of unspeakable contempt and derision while little penn cover himself with glory by pip up. gee a little. hssh. come here. haw. 
they ride on their chain for the rest of the night a short snappy uneasy motion a harvey find and waste half the forenoon recover the cable. but the boy agree the trouble be cheap at the price of triumph and glory and they think with grief over all the beautiful thing that they might have say to the discomfit carrie. 
chapter vii. 
next day they fell in with more sail all circle slowly from the east northerly towards the west. but just when they expect to make the shoal by the virgin the fog shut down and they anchor surround by the tinkle of invisible bell. there be not much fish but occasionally dory meet dory in the fog and exchange news. 
that night a little before dawn dan and harvey who have be sleep most of the day tumble out to hook fry pie. there be no reason why they should not have take them openly. but they taste good so and it make the cook angry. the heat and smell below drive them on deck with their plunder and they find disko at the bell which he hand over to harvey. 
keep her goin say he. i mistrust i hear somethin. ef it s anything i m best where i be so s to get at thing. 
it be a forlorn little jingle. the thick air seem to pinch it off. and in the pause harvey hear the muffle shriek of a liner s siren and he know enough of the bank to know what that mean. it come to him with horrible distinctness how a boy in a cherry colour jersey he despise fancy blazer now with all a fisherman s contempt how an ignorant rowdy boy have once say it would be great if a steamer run down a fish boat. that boy have a state room with a hot and cold bath and spend ten minute each morning pick over a gild edge bill of fare. and that same boy no his very much old brother be up at four of the dim dawn in stream crackle oilskin hammer literally for the dear life on a bell small than the steward s breakfast bell while somewhere close at hand a thirty foot steel stem be storm along at twenty mile an hour. the bitter think of all be that there be folk asleep in dry upholster cabin who would never learn that they have massacre a boat before breakfast. so harvey ring the bell. 
yes they slow daown one turn o their blame propeller say dan apply himself to manuel s conch fer to keep inside the law an that s consolin when we re all at the bottom. hark to her she s a humper. 
aoooo whoooo whupp. go the siren. wingle tingle tink go the bell. graaa ouch. go the conch while sea and sky be all mill up in milky fog. then harvey felt that he be near a move body and find himself look up and up at the wet edge of a cliff like bow leap it seem directly over the schooner. a jaunty little feather of water curl in front of it and a it lift it show a long ladder of roman numeral xv. xvi. xvii. xviii. and so forth on a salmon colour gleam side. it tilt forward and downward with a heart still ssssooo. the ladder disappear. a line of brass rim port hole flash past. a jet of steam puff in harvey s helplessly uplift hand. a spout of hot water roar along the rail of the we re here and the little schooner stagger and shake in a rush of screw tear water a a liner s stern vanish in the fog. harvey get ready to faint or be sick or both when he hear a crack like a trunk throw on a sidewalk and all small in his ear a far away telephone voice drawl. heave to. you ve sink u. 
be it u. he gasp. 
no. boat out yonder. ring. we re goin to look say dan run out a dory. 
in half a minute all except harvey penn and the cook be overside and away. presently a schooner s stump foremast snap clean across drift past the bow. then an empty green dory come by knock on the we re here s side a though she wish to be take in. then follow something face down in a blue jersey but it be not the whole of a man. penn change colour and catch his breath with a click. harvey pound despairingly at the bell for he fear they might be sink at any minute and he jump at dan s hail a the crew come back. 
the jennie cushman say dan hysterically cut clean in half graound up an trompled on at that. not a quarter of a mile away. dad s get the old man. there ain t any one else and there be his son too. oh harve harve i can t stand it. i ve see he drop his head on his arm and sob while the others drag a grey head man aboard. 
what do you pick me up for. the strange groan. disko what do you pick me up for. 
disko drop a heavy hand on his shoulder for the man s eye be wild and his lip tremble a he star at the silent crew. then up and speak pennsylvania pratt who be also haskins or rich or mcvitty when uncle salter forget. and his face be change on him from the face of a fool to the countenance of an old wise man and he say in a strong voice. the lord give and the lord hath take away. bless be the name of the lord. i be i be a minister of the gospel. leave him to me. 
oh you be be you. say the man. then pray my son back to me. pray back a nine thousand dollar boat an a thousand quintal of fish. if you d leave me alone my widow could ha go on to the provident an work fer her board an never know an never know. now i ll hev to tell her. 
there ain t nothin to say say disko. good lie down a piece jason olley. 
when a man ha lose his only son his summer s work and his mean of livelihood in thirty count second it be hard to give consolation. 
all gloucester men wasn t they say tom platt fiddle helplessly with a dory becket. 
oh that don t make no odds say jason wring the wet from his beard. i ll be rowin summer boarder araound east gloucester this fall. he roll heavily to the rail sing. 
happy bird that sing and fly round thine altar o most high. 
come with me. come below. say penn a though he have a right to give order. their eye meet and fight for a quarter of a minute. 
i dunno who you be but i ll come say jason submissively. mebbe i ll get back some o the some o the nine thousand dollar. penn lead him into the cabin and slide the door behind. 
that ain t penn cry uncle salter. it s jacob boiler an he s remember johnstown. i never seed such eye in any livin man s head. what s to do naow. what ll i do naow. 
they could hear penn s voice and jason s together. then penn s go on alone and salter slip off his hat for penn be pray. presently the little man come up the step huge drop of sweat on his face and look at the crew. dan be still sob by the wheel. 
he don t know u salter groan. it s all to do over again checker and everything an what ll he say to me. 
penn speak. they could hear that it be to stranger. i have pray say he. our people believe in prayer. i have pray for the life of this man s son. mine be drown before my eye she and my eldest and the others. shall a man be more wise than his maker. i pray never for their life but i have pray for this man s son and he will surely be send him. 
salter look pleadingly at penn to see if he remember. 
how long have i be mad. penn ask suddenly. his mouth be twitch. 
pshaw penn. you weren t never mad salter begin. only a little distract like. 
i saw the house strike the bridge before the fire break out. i do not remember any more. how long ago be that. 
i can t stand it. i can t stand it. cry dan and harvey whimper in sympathy. 
abaout five year say disko in a shake voice. 
then i have be a charge on some one for every day of that time. who be the man. 
disko point to salter. 
ye hain t ye hain t. cry the sea farmer twist his hand together. ye ve more n earn your keep twice tell. an there s money owin you penn besides ha af o my quarter share in the boat which be yours fer value receive. 
you be good men. i can see that in your face. but. 
mother av mercy whisper long jack an he s be wid u all these trip. he s clean bewitch. 
a schooner s bell strike up alongside and a voice hail through the fog. o disko. hear abaout the jennie cushman. 
they have find his son cry penn. stand you still and see the salvation of the lord. 
get jason aboard here disko answer but his voice quaver. there warn t any one else. 
we ve f und one though. run acrost him snarl up in a mess o lumber thet might ha bin a fo c sle. his head s cut some. 
who be he. 
the we re here heart beat answer one another. 
guess it s young olley the voice drawl. 
penn raise his hand and say something in german. harvey could have swear that a bright sun be shin upon his lift face. but the drawl go on. sa ay. you feller guy u consid rable t other night. 
we don t feel like guyin any now say disko. 
i know it. but to tell the honest truth we be kind kind driftin when we run ag in young olley. 
it be the irrepressible carrie pitman and a roar of unsteady laughter go up from the deck of the we re here. 
hedn t you baout s well send the old man aboard. we re runnin in fer more bait an graound tackle. guess you win t want him anyway an this blame windlass work make u short hand. we ll take care of him. he marry my woman s aunt. 
i ll give you anything in the boat say troop. 
don t want nothin le mebbe an anchor that ll hold. say. young olley s gittin kind baulky an excite. send the old man along. 
penn wake him from his stupor of despair and tom platt row him over. he go away without a word of thank not know what be to come. and the fog close over all. 
and now say penn draw a deep breath a though about to preach. and now the erect body sink like a sword drive home into the scabbard. the light fade from the overbright eye. the voice return to it usual pitiful little titter and now say pennsylvania pratt do you think it s too early for a little game of checker mr. salter. 
the very thing the very thing i be goin to say myself cry salter promptly. it beat all penn how you git on to what s in a man s mind. 
the little fellow blush and meekly follow salter forward. 
up anchor. hurry. let s quit these crazy water shout disko and never be he more swiftly obey. 
now what in creation d ye suppose be the meanin o that all. say long jack when they be work through the fog once more damp drip and bewilder. 
the way i sense it say disko at the wheel be this. the jennie cushman business comin on an empty stummick. 
he we saw one of them go by sob harvey. 
an that o course kind heave him out water julluk runnin a craft ashore. heave him right aout i take it to rememberin johnstown an jacob boiler an such like reminiscence. well consolin jason there hold him up a piece same s shorin up a boat. then bein weak them prop slip an slip an he slide down the way an naow he s water bear ag in. that s haow i sense it. 
they decide that disko be entirely correct. 
twould ha bruk salter all up say long jack if penn have stay jacob bollerin. do ye see his face when penn ask who he d be charge on all these year. how be ut salter. 
asleep dead asleep. turn in like a child salter reply tiptoe aft. there win t be no grub till he wake natural. do ye ever see sech a gift in prayer. he everlastin ly hike young olley out the ocean. thet s my belief. jason be tur ble praoud of his boy an i mistrust all along twas a jedgment on worshippin vain idol. 
there s others jest a sot say disko. 
that s dif runt salter retort quickly. penn s not all caulk an i ain t only but doin my duty by him. 
they wait those hungry men three hour till penn reappear with a smooth face and a blank mind. he say he believe that he have be dream. then he want to know why they be so silent and they could not tell him. 
disko work all hand mercilessly for the next three or four day. and when they could not go out turn them into the hold to stack the ship s store into small compass to make more room for the fish. the pack mass run from the cabin partition to the slide door behind the fo c sle stave. and disko show how there be great art in stow cargo so a to bring a schooner to her best draft. the crew be thus keep lively till they recover their spirit. and harvey be tickle with a rope s end by long jack for be a the galway man say sorrowful a a sick cat over fwhat couldn t be help. he do a great deal of think in those dreary day. and tell dan what he think and dan agree with him even to the extent of ask for fry pie instead of hook them. 
but a week late the two nearly upset the hattie s. in a wild attempt to stab a shark with an old bayonet tie to a stick. the grim brute rub alongside the dory beg for small fish and between the three of them it be a mercy they all get off alive. 
at last after play blindman s buff in the fog there come a morning when disko shout down the fo c sle. hurry boy. we re in taown. 
chapter viii. 
to the end of his day harvey will never forget that sight. the sun be just clear of the horizon they have not see for nearly a week and his low red light strike into the rid sail of three fleet of anchor schooner one to the north one to the westward and one to the south. there must have be nearly a hundred of them of every possible make and build with far away a square rig frenchman all bow and courtesying one to the other. from every boat dory be drop away like bee from a crowd hive. and the clamour of voice the rattle of rope and block and the splash of the oar carry for mile across the heave water. the sail turn all colour black pearly grey and white a the sun mount. and more boat swing up through the mist to the southward. 
the dory gather in cluster separate reform and break again all head one way. while men hail and whistle and cat call and sing and the water be speckle with rubbish throw overboard. 
it s a town say harvey. disko be right. it be a town. 
i ve see small say disko. there s about a thousand men here. an yonder s the virgin. he point to a vacant space of greenish sea where there be no dory. 
the we re here skirt round the northern squadron disko wave his hand to friend after friend and anchor a neatly a a race yacht at the end of the season. the bank fleet pas good seamanship in silence. but a bungler be jeer all along the line. 
jest in time fer the caplin cry the mary chilton. 
salt most wet. ask the king philip. 
hey tom platt. come t supper to night. say the henry clay. and so question and answer fly back and forth. men have meet one another before dory fish in the fog and there be no place for gossip like the bank fleet. they all seem to know about harvey s rescue and ask if he be worth his salt yet. the young blood jest with dan who have a lively tongue of his own and inquire after their health by the town nickname they least like. manuel s countryman jabber at him in their own language. and even the silent cook be see rid the jib boom and shout gaelic to a friend a black a himself. after they have buoy the cable all around the virgin be rocky bottom and carelessness mean chafe grind tackle and danger from drift after they have buoy the cable their dory go forth to join the mob of boat anchor about a mile away. the schooner rock and dip at a safe distance like mother duck watch their brood while the dory behave like mannerless duckling. 
a they drive into the confusion boat bang boat harvey s ear tingle at the comment on his row. every dialect from labrador to long island with portuguese neapolitan lingua franca french and gaelic with song and shouting and new oath rattle round him and he seem to be the butt of it all. for the first time in his life he felt shy perhaps that come from live so long with only the we re here among the score of wild face that rise and fell with the reel small craft. a gentle breathe swell three furlong from trough to barrel would quietly shoulder up a string of variously paint dory. they hang for an instant a wonderful frieze against the sky line and their men point and hail next moment the open mouth wave arm and bare chest disappear while on another swell come up an entirely new line of character like paper figure in a toy theatre. so harvey star. watch out. say dan flourish a dip net. when i tell you dip you dip. the caplin ll school any time from naow on. where ll we lay tom platt. 
push shove and haul greet old friend here and warn old enemy there commodore tom platt lead his little fleet well to leeward of the general crowd and immediately three or four men begin to haul on their anchor with intent to lee bow the we re here. but a yell of laughter go up a a dory shoot from her station with exceed speed it occupant pull madly on the roding. 
give her slack. roar twenty voice. let him shake it out. 
what s the matter. say harvey a the boat flash away to the southward. he s anchor isn t he. 
anchor sure enough but his graound tackle s kind shifty say dan laugh. whale s foul it. dip harve. here they come. 
the sea round them cloud and darken and then frizz up in shower of tiny silver fish and over a space of five or six acre the cod begin to leap like trout in may. while behind the cod three or four broad grey black back break the water into boil. 
then everybody shout and try to haul up his anchor to get among the school and foul his neighbour s line and say what be in his heart and dip furiously with his dip net and shriek caution and advice to his companion while the deep fizz like freshly open soda water and cod men and whale together fling in upon the luckless bait. harvey be nearly knock overboard by the handle of dan s net. but in all the wild tumult he notice and never forget the wicked set little eye something like a circus elephant s eye of a whale that drive along almost level with the water and so he say wink at him. three boat find their rodings foul by these reckless mid sea hunter and be tow half a mile ere their horse shake the line free. 
then the caplin move off and five minute late there be no sound except the splash of the sinker overside the flap of the cod and the whack of the muckle a the men stun them. it be wonderful fish. harvey could see the glimmer cod below swim slowly in drove bite a steadily a they swim. bank law strictly forbid more than one hook on one line when the dory be on the virgin or the eastern shoal. but so close lay the boat that even single hook snarl and harvey find himself in hot argument with a gentle hairy newfoundlander on one side and a howl portuguese on the other. 
bad than any tangle of fish line be the confusion of the dory rodings below water. each man have anchor where it seem good to him drift and row round his fix point. a the fish strike on le quickly each man want to haul up and get to good grind. but every third man find himself intimately connect with some four or five neighbour. to cut another s roding be crime unspeakable on the bank. yet it be do and do without detection three or four time that day. tom platt catch a maine man in the black act and knock him over the gunwale with an oar and manuel serve a fellow countryman in the same way. but harvey s anchor line be cut and so be penn s and they be turn into relief boat to carry fish to the we re here a the dory fill. the caplin school once more at twilight when the mad clamour be repeat. and at dusk they row back to dress down by the light of kerosene lamp on the edge of the pen. 
it be a huge pile and they go to sleep while they be dress. next day several boat fish right above the cap of the virgin. and harvey with them look down on the very weed of that lonely rock which rise to within twenty foot of the surface. the cod be there in legion march solemnly over the leathery kelp. when they bite they bite all together. and so when they stop. there be a slack time at noon and the dory begin to search for amusement. it be dan who sight the hope of prague just come up and a her boat join the company they be greet with the question. who s the mean man in the fleet. 
three hundred voice answer cheerily. 
nick bra ady. it sound an organ chant. 
who steal the lamp wick. that be dan s contribution. 
nick bra ady sing the boat. 
who biled the salt bait fer soup. this be an unknown backbiter a quarter of a mile away. 
again the joyful chorus. now brady be not especially mean but he have that reputation and the fleet make the most of it. then they discover a man from a truro boat who six year before have be convict of use a tackle with five or six hook a scrowger they call it on the shoal. naturally he have be christen scrowger jim. and though he have hide himself on the george ever since he find his honour wait for him full blow. they take it up in a sort of fire cracker chorus. jim. o jim. jim. o jim. sssscrowger jim. that please everybody. and when a poetical beverly man he have be make it up all day and talk about it for week sing the carrie pitman s anchor doesn t hold her for a cent. the dory felt that they be indeed fortunate. then they have to ask that beverly man how he be off for bean because even poet must not have thing all their own way. every schooner and nearly every man get it in turn. be there a careless or dirty cook anywhere. the dory sing about him and his food. be a schooner badly find. the fleet be tell at full length. have a man hook tobacco from a messmate. he be name in meet. the name toss from roller to roller. disko s infallible judgment long jack s market boat that he have sell year ago dan s sweetheart. oh but dan be an angry boy. penn s bad luck with dory anchor salter s view on manure manuel s little slip from virtue ashore and harvey s ladylike handle of the oar all be lay before the public. and a the fog fell around them in silvery sheet beneath the sun the voice sound like a bench of invisible judge pronounce sentence. 
the dory rove and fish and squabble till a swell underran the sea. then they draw more apart to save their side and some one call that if the swell continue the virgin would break. a reckless galway man with his nephew deny this haul up anchor and row over the very rock itself. many voice call them to come away while others dare them to hold on. a the smooth back roller pass to the south ward they heave the dory high and high into the mist and drop her in ugly suck dimple water where she spin round her anchor within a foot or two of the hide rock. it be play with death for mere bravado. and the boat look on in uneasy silence till long jack row up behind his countryman and quietly cut their roding. 
can t ye hear ut knockin. he cry. pull for your miserable life. pull. 
the men swear and try to argue a the boat drift. but the next swell check a little like a man trip on a carpet. there be a deep sob and a gather roar and the virgin fling up a couple of acre of foam water white furious and ghastly over the shoal sea. then all the boat greatly applaud long jack and the galway men hold their tongue. 
ain t it elegant. say dan bob like a young seal at home. she ll break about once every ha af hour now le the swell pile up good. what s her reg lar time when she s at work tom platt. 
once ivry fifteen minute to the tick. harve you ve see the great thing on the bank. an but for long jack you d see some dead men too. 
there come a sound of merriment where the fog lay thick and the schooner be ring their bell. a big bark nose cautiously out of the mist and be receive with shout and cry of come along darlin from the irishry. 
another frenchman. say harvey. 
hain t you eye. she s a baltimore boat. goin in fear an tremblin say dan. we ll guy the very stick out of her. guess it s the fust time her skipper ever meet up with the fleet this way. 
she be a black buxom eight hundred ton craft. her mainsail be loop up and her topsail flap undecidedly in what little wind be move. now a bark be feminine beyond all other daughter of the sea and this tall hesitate creature with her white and gild figurehead look just like a bewilder woman half lift her skirt to cross a muddy street under the jeer of bad little boy. that be very much her situation. she know she be somewhere in the neighbourhood of the virgin have catch the roar of it and be therefore ask her way. this be a small part of what she hear from the dance dory. 
the virgin. fwhat be you talk in of. this be le have on a sunday mornin. go home an sober up. 
go home ye tarrapin. go home an tell em we re comin. 
half a dozen voice together in a most tuneful chorus a her stern go down with a roll and a bubble into the trough. thay aah she strike. 
hard up. hard up fer your life. you re on top of her now. 
daown. hard daown. let go everything. 
all hand to the pump. 
daown jib an pole her. 
here the skipper lose his temper and say thing. instantly fish be suspend to answer him and he hear many curious fact about his boat and her next port of call. they ask him if he be insure. and whence he have steal his anchor because they say it belong to the carrie pitman. they call his boat a mud scow and accuse him of dump garbage to frighten the fish. they offer to tow him and charge it to his wife. and one audacious youth slip almost under the counter smack it with his open palm and yell. gid up buck. 
the cook empty a pan of ash on him and he reply with cod head. the bark s crew fire small coal from the galley and the dory threaten to come aboard and razee her. they would have warn her at once have she be in real peril. but see her well clear of the virgin they make the most of their chance. the fun be spoil when the rock speak again a half mile to windward and the torment bark set everything that would draw and go her way. but the dory felt that the honour lay with them. 
all that night the virgin roar hoarsely and next morning over an angry white head sea harvey saw the fleet with flicker mast wait for a lead. not a dory be heave out till ten o clock when the two jeraulds of the day s eye imagine a lull which do not exist set the example. in a minute half the boat be out and bob in the cockly swell but troop keep the we re here at work dress down. he saw no sense in dare. and a the storm grow that even they have the pleasure of receive wet stranger only too glad to make any refuge in the gale. the boy stand by the dory tackle with lantern the men ready to haul one eye cock for the sweep wave that would make them drop everything and hold on for the dear life. out of the dark would come a yell of dory dory. they would hook up and haul in a drench man and a half sink boat till their deck be litter down with nest of dory and the bunk be full. five time in their watch do harvey with dan jump at the foregaff where it lay lash on the boom and cling with arm leg and teeth to rope and spar and sodden canvas a a big wave fill the deck. one dory be smash to piece and the sea pitch the man head first on to the deck cut his forehead open. and about dawn when the race sea glimmer white all along their cold edge another man blue and ghastly crawl in with a break hand ask news of his brother. seven extra mouth sit down to breakfast. a swede. a chatham skipper. a boy from hancock maine. one duxbury and three provincetown men. 
there be a general sort out among the fleet next day. and though no one say anything all eat with good appetite when boat after boat report full crew aboard. only a couple of portuguese and an old man from gloucester be drown but many be cut or bruise. and two schooner have part their tackle and be blow to the southward three day sail. a man die on a frenchman it be the same bark that have trade tobacco with the we re here. she slip away quite quietly one wet white morning move to a patch of deep water her sail all hang anyhow and harvey saw the funeral through disko s spy glass. it be only an oblong bundle slide overside. they do not seem to have any form of service but in the night at anchor harvey hear them across the star powder black water sing something that sound like a hymn. it go to a very slow tune. 
la brigantine qui va tourner roule et s incline pour m entrainer. oh vierge marie pour moi priez dieu. adieu patrie. qubec adieu. 
tom platt visit her because he say the dead man be his brother a a freemason. it come out that a wave have double the poor fellow over the heel of the bowsprit and break his back. the news spread like a flash for contrary to general custom the frenchman hold an auction of the dead man s kit he have no friend at st. malo or miquelon and everything be spread out on the top of the house from his red knit cap to the leather belt with the sheath knife at the back. dan and harvey be out on twenty fathom water in the hattie s. and naturally row over to join the crowd. it be a long pull and they stay some little time while dan buy the knife which have a curious brass handle. when they drop overside and push off into a drizzle of rain and a lop of sea it occur to them that they might get into trouble for neglect the line. guess twon t hurt u any to be warm up say dan shiver under his oilskin and they row on into the heart of a white fog which a usual drop on them without warn. 
there s too much blame tide hereabouts to trust to your instinks he say. heave over the anchor harve and we ll fish a piece till the thing lift. bend on your big lead. three pound ain t any too much in this water. see how she s tighten on her rodin already. 
there be quite a little bubble at the bow where some irresponsible bank current hold the dory full stretch on her rope. but they could not see a boat s length in any direction. harvey turn up his collar and bunch himself over his reel with the air of a weary navigator. fog have no special terror for him now. they fish awhile in silence and find the cod strike on well. then dan draw the sheath knife and test the edge of it on the gunwale. 
that s a daisy say harvey. how do you get it so cheap. 
on account o their blame cath lic superstition say dan jab with the bright blade. they don t fancy takin iron frum off of a dead man so to speak. see them arichat frenchman step back when i bid. 
but an auction ain t take anything off a dead man. it s business. 
we know it ain t but there s no goin in the teeth o superstition. that s one o the advantage o livin in a progressive country. and dan begin whistle. 
oh double thatcher how be you. now eastern point come inter view. the girl an boy we soon shall see at anchor off cape ann. 
why didn t that eastport man bid then. he buy his boot. ain t maine progressive. 
maine. pshaw. they don t know enough or they hain t get money enough to paint their haouses in maine. i ve see em. the eastport man he tell me that the knife have be use so the french captain tell him use up on the french coast last year. 
cut a man. heave s the muckle. harvey haul in his fish rebaited and throw over. 
kill him. course when i hear that i be keen n ever to get it. 
christmas. i didn t know it say harvey turn round. i ll give you a dollar for it when i get my wage. say i ll give you two dollar. 
honest. d you like it a much a all that. say dan flush. well to tell the truth i kind get it for you to give. but i didn t let on till i saw how you d take it. it s yours and welcome harve because we re dory mate and so on and so forth an so followin. catch a holt. 
he hold it out belt and all. 
but look at here. dan i don t see. 
take it. tain t no use to me. i wish you to hev it. 
the temptation be irresistible. dan you re a white man say harvey. i ll keep it a long a i live. 
that s good hearin say dan with a pleasant laugh. and then anxious to change the subject. look s if your line be fast to somethin. 
foul i guess say harve tug. before he pull up he fasten the belt round him and with deep delight hear the tip of the sheath click on the thwart. concern the thing. he cry. she act a though she be on strawberry bottom. it s all sand here ain t it. 
dan reach over and give a judgmatic tweak. holibut ll act that way f he s sulky. thet s no strawberry bottom. yank her once or twice. she give sure. guess we d good haul up an make certain. 
they pull together make fast at each turn on the cleat and the hide weight rise sluggishly. 
prize oh. haul. shout dan but the shout end in a shrill double shriek of horror for out of the sea come the body of the dead frenchman bury two day before. the hook have catch him under the right armpit and he sway erect and horrible head and shoulder above water. his arm be tie to his side and he have no face. the boy fell over each other in a heap at the bottom of the dory and there they lay while the thing bob alongside hold on the shorten line. 
the tide the tide bring him. say harvey with quiver lip a he fumble at the clasp of the belt. 
oh lord. oh harve. groan dan be quick. he s come for it. let him have it. take it off. 
i don t want it. i don t want it. cry harvey. i can t find the bu buckle. 
quick harve. he s on your line. 
harvey sit up to unfasten the belt face the head that have no face under it stream hair. he s fast still he whisper to dan who slip out his knife and cut the line a harvey fling the belt far overside. the body shoot down with a plop and dan cautiously rise to his knee white than the fog. 
he come for it. he come for it. i ve see a stale one haul up on a trawl and i didn t much care but he come to u special. 
i wish i wish i hadn t take the knife. then he d have come on your line. 
dunno a thet would ha make any differ. we re both scar out o ten year growth. oh harve do ye see his head. 
do i. i ll never forget it. but look at here dan. it couldn t have be mean. it be only the tide. 
tide. he come for it harve. why they sink him six mile to south ard o the fleet an we re two mile from where she s lyin now. they tell me he be weight with a fathom an a half o chain cable. 
wonder what he do with the knife up on the french coast. 
something bad. guess he s bind to take it with him to the judgment an so what be you doin with the fish. 
heave em overboard say harvey. 
what for. we sha n t eat em. 
i don t care. i have to look at his face while i be takin the belt off. you can keep your catch if you like. i ve no use for mine. 
dan say nothing but throw his fish over again. 
guess it s best to be on the safe side he murmur at last. i d give a month s pay if this fog u d lift. thing go abaout in a fog that ye don t see in clear weather yo hoe an hollerers and such like. i m sorter relieve he come the way he do instid o walkin. he might ha walk. 
do on t dan. we re right on top of him now. wish i be safe aboard bein pound by uncle salter. 
they ll be lookin fer u in a little. gimme the tooter. dan take the tin dinner horn but pause before he blow. 
go on say harvey. i don t want to stay here all night. 
question be haow he d take it. there be a man frum down the coast tell me once he be in a schooner where they darsen t ever blow a horn to the dory becaze the skipper not the man he be with but a captain that have run her five year before he d drownded a boy alongside in a drink fit. an ever after that boy he d row alongside too and shout dory. dory. with the rest. 
dory. dory. a muffle voice cry through the fog. they cower again and the horn drop from dan s hand. 
hold on. cry harvey. it s the cook. 
dunno what make me think o thet fool tale either say dan. it s the doctor sure enough. 
dan. danny. oooh dan. harve. harvey. oooh haarveee. 
we re here sing both boy together. they hear oar but could see nothing till the cook shin and drip row into them. 
what i happen. say he. you will be beat at home. 
thet s what we want. thet s what we re sufferin for say dan. anything homey s good enough fer u. we ve have kind depressin company. a the cook pass them a line dan tell him the tale. 
yes. he come for hiss knife be all he say at the end. 
never have the little rock we re here look so deliciously home like a when the cook bear and breed in fog row them back to her. there be a warm glow of light from the cabin and a satisfy smell of food forward and it be heavenly to hear disko and the others all quite alive and solid lean over the rail and promise them a first class pound. but the cook be a black master of strategy. he do not get the dory aboard till he have give the more strike point of the tale explain a he back and bump round the counter how harvey be the mascot to destroy any possible bad luck. so the boy come overside a rather uncanny hero and every one ask them question instead of pound them for make trouble. little penn deliver quite a speech on the folly of superstition. but public opinion be against him and in favour of long jack who tell the most excruciate ghost story to nearly midnight. under that influence no one except salter and penn say anything about idolatry when the cook put a light candle a cake of flour and water and a pinch of salt on a shingle and float them out astern to keep the frenchman quiet in case he be still restless. dan light the candle because he have buy the belt and the cook grunt and mutter charm a long a he could see the duck point of flame. 
say harvey to dan a they turn in after watch. how about progress and catholic superstition. 
huh. i guess i m a enlighten and progressive a the next man but when it come to a dead st. malo deck hand scarin a couple o pore boy stiff fer the sake of a thirty cent knife why then the cook can take hold fer all o me. i mistrust furriners livin or dead. 
next morning all except the cook be rather ashamed of the ceremony and go to work double tide speak gruffly to one another. 
the we re here be race neck and neck for her last few load against the parry norman. and so close be the struggle that the fleet take side and bet tobacco. all hand work at the line or dress down till they fell asleep where they stand begin before dawn and end when it be too dark to see. they even use the cook a pitcher and turn harvey into the hold to pas salt while dan help to dress down. luckily a parry norman man sprain his ankle fall down the fo c sle and the we re here gain. harvey could not see how one more fish could be cram into her but disko and tom platt stow and stow and plank the mass down with big stone from the ballast and there be always jest another day s work. disko do not tell them when all the salt be wet. he roll to the lazarette aft the cabin and begin haul out the big mainsail. this be at ten in the morning. the rid sail be down and the main and top sail be up by noon and dory come alongside with letter for home envy their good fortune. at last she clear deck hoist her flag a be the right of the first boat off the bank up anchor and begin to move. disko pretend that he wish to accommodate folk who have not send in their mail and so work her gracefully in and out among the schooner. in reality that be his little triumphant procession and for the fifth year run it show what kind of mariner he be. dan s accordion and tom platt s fiddle supply the music of the magic verse you must not sing till all the salt be wet. 
hih. yih. yoho. send your letter raound. all our salt be wet an the anchor s off the graound. bend oh bend your main l. we re back to yankeeland with fifteen hunder quintal an fifteen hunder quintal teen hunder toppin quintal twix old queereau an grand. 
the last letter pitch on deck wrap round piece of coal and the gloucester men shout message to their wife and womenfolk and owner while the we re here finish the musical ride through the fleet her head sail quiver like a man s hand when he raise it to say good bye. 
harvey very soon discover that the we re here with her rid sail stroll from berth to berth and the we re here head west by south under home canvas be two very different boat. there be a bite and kick to the wheel even in boy s weather. he could feel the dead weight in the hold fling forward mightily across the surge and the stream line of bubble overside make his eye dizzy. 
disko keep them busy fiddle with the sail. and when those be flatten like a race yacht s dan have to wait on the big topsail which be put over by hand every time she go about. in spare moment they pump for the pack fish drip brine which doe not improve a cargo. but since there be no fish harvey have time to look at the sea from another point of view. the low side schooner be naturally on most intimate term with her surround. they saw little of the horizon save when she top a swell. and usually she be elbow fidget and coax her steadfast way through grey grey blue or black hollow lace across and across with streak of shiver foam. or rub herself caressingly along the flank of some big water hill. it be a if she say. you wouldn t hurt me surely. i m only the little we re here. then she would slide away chuckle softly to herself till she be bring up by some fresh obstacle. the dull of folk cannot see this kind of thing hour after hour through long day without notice it. and harvey be anything but dull begin to comprehend and enjoy the dry chorus of wave top turn over with a sound of incessant tear. the hurry of the wind work across open space and herd the purple blue cloud shadow. the splendid upheaval of the red sunrise. the fold and pack away of the morning mist wall after wall withdraw across the white floor. the salty glare and blaze of noon. the kiss of rain fall over thousand of dead flat square mile. the chilly blacken of everything at the day s end. and the million wrinkle of the sea under the moonlight when the jib boom solemnly poke at the low star and harvey go down to get a doughnut from the cook. 
but the best fun be when the boy be put on the wheel together tom platt within hail and she cuddle her lee rail down to the crash blue and keep a little home make rainbow arch unbroken over her windlass. then the jaw of the boom whine against the mast and the sheet creak and the sail fill with roar. and when she slide into a hollow she trample like a woman trip in her own silk dress and come out her jib wet half way up yearn and peer for the tall twin light of thatcher s island. 
they leave the cold grey of the bank sea saw the lumber ship make for quebec by the strait of st. lawrence with the jersey salt brig from spain and sicily. find a friendly northeast off artimon bank that drive them within view of the east light of sable island a sight disko do not linger over and stay with them past western and le have to the northern fringe of george s. from there they pick up the deep water and let her go merrily. 
hattie s pull on the string dan confide to harvey. hattie an ma. next sunday you ll be hirin a boy to throw water on the window to make ye go to sleep. guess you ll keep with u till your folk come. do you know the best of gettin ashore again. 
hot bath. say harvey. his eyebrow be all white with dry spray. 
that s good but a night shirt s good. i ve be dreamin o night shirt ever since we bend our mainsail. ye can wiggle your toe then. ma ll hev a new one fer me all wash soft. it s home harve. it s home. ye can sense it in the air. we re runnin into the aidge of a hot wave naow an i can smell the bayberry. wonder if we ll get in fer supper. port a trifle. 
the hesitate sail flap and lurch in the close air a the deep smooth out blue and oily round them. when they whistle for a wind only the rain come in spiky rod bubble and drum and behind the rain the thunder and the lightning of mid august. they lay on the deck with bare foot and arm tell one another what they would order at their first meal ashore. for now the land be in plain sight. a gloucester swordfish boat drift alongside a man in the little pulpit on the bowsprit flourish his harpoon his bare head plaster down with the wet. and all s well. he sing cheerily a though he be watch on a big liner. wouverman s wait fer you disko. what s the news o the fleet. 
disko shout it and pass on while the wild summer storm pound overhead and the lightning flicker along the cape from four different quarter at once. it give the low circle of hill round gloucester harbour ten pound island the fish shed with the break line of house roof and each spar and buoy on the water in blind photograph that come and go a dozen time to the minute a the we re here crawl in on half flood and the whistle buoy moan and mourn behind her. then the storm die out in long separate vicious dag of blue white flame follow by a single roar like the roar of a mortar battery and the shake air tingle under the star a it get back to silence. 
the flag the flag. say disko suddenly point upward. 
what be ut. say long jack. 
otto. ha af mast. they can see u frum shore now. 
i d clean forget. he s no folk to gloucester ha he. 
girl he be goin to be marry to this fall. 
mary pity her. say long jack and lower the little flag half mast for the sake of otto sweep overboard in a gale off le have three month before. 
disko wipe the wet from his eye and lead the we re here to wouverman s wharf give his order in whisper while she swing round moor tug and night watchman hail her from the end of inky black pier. over and above the darkness and the mystery of the procession harvey could feel the land close round him once more with all it thousand of people asleep and the smell of earth after rain and the familiar noise of a switch engine cough to herself in a freight yard. and all those thing make his heart beat and his throat dry up a he stand by the foresheet. they hear the anchor watch snore on a lighthouse tug nose into a pocket of darkness where a lantern glimmer on either side. somebody wake with a grunt throw them a rope and they make fast to a silent wharf flank with great iron roof shed full of warm emptiness and lay there without a sound. 
then harvey sit down by the wheel and sob and sob a though his heart would break and a tall woman who have be sit on a weigh scale drop down into the schooner and kiss dan once on the cheek. for she be his mother and she have see the we re here by the lightning flash. she take no notice of harvey till he have recover himself a little and disko have tell her his story. then they go to disko s house together a the dawn be break. and until the telegraph office be open and he could wire to his folk harvey cheyne be perhaps the lonely boy in all america. but the curious thing be that disko and dan seem to think none the bad of him for cry. 
wouverman be not ready for disko s price till disko sure that the we re here be at least a week ahead of any other gloucester boat have give him a few day to swallow them. so all hand play about the street and long jack stop the rocky neck trolley on principle a he say till the conductor let him ride free. but dan go about with his freckle nose in the air bungful of mystery and most haughty to his family. 
dan i ll hev to lay inter you ef you act this way say troop pensively. sence we ve come ashore this time you ve bin a heap too fresh. 
i d lay into him naow ef he be mine say uncle salter sourly. he and penn board with the troop. 
oho. say dan shuffle with the accordion round the back yard ready to leap the fence if the enemy advance. dad you re welcome to your own jedgment but remember i ve warn ye. your own flesh an blood ha warn ye. tain t any o my fault ef you re mistake but i ll be on deck to watch ye. an ez fer yeou uncle salter pharaoh s chief butler ain t in it longside o you. you watch aout an wait. you ll be plough under like your own blame clover. but me dan troop i ll flourish like a green bay tree because i warn t stick on my own opinion. 
disko be smoke in all his shore dignity and a pair of beautiful carpet slipper. you re gettin ez crazy a poor harve. you two go araound gigglin an squinchin an kickin each other under the table till there s no peace in the haouse say he. 
there s goin to be a heap le fer some folk dan reply. you wait an see. 
he and harvey go out on the trolley to east gloucester where they tramp through the bayberry bush to the lighthouse and lay down on the big red boulder and laugh themselves hungry. harvey have show dan a telegram and the two swear to keep silence till the shell burst. 
harve s folk. say dan with an unruffled face after supper. well i guess they don t amount to much of anything or we d ha hear frum em by naow. his pop keep a kind o store out west. maybe he ll give you s much a five dollar dad. 
what do i tell ye. say salter. don t sputter over your vittles dan. 
chapter ix. 
whatever his private sorrow may be a multimillionaire like any other workingman should keep abreast of his business. harvey cheyne senior have go east late in june to meet a woman break down half mad who dream day and night of her son drown in the grey sea. he have surround her with doctor train nurse massage woman and even faith cure companion but they be useless. mr. cheyne lay still and moan or talk of her boy by the hour together to any one who would listen. hope she have none and who could offer it. all she need be assurance that drown do not hurt. and her husband watch to guard l she should make the experiment. of his own sorrow he speak little hardly realise the depth of it till he catch himself ask the calendar on his write desk what s the use of go on. 
there have always lie a pleasant notion at the back of his head that some day when he have round off everything and the boy have leave college he would take his son to his heart and lead him into his possession. then that boy he argue a busy father do would instantly become his companion partner and ally and there would follow splendid year of great work carry out together the old head back the young fire. now his boy be dead lose at sea a it might have be a swede sailor from one of cheyne s big tea ship. the wife be die or bad. he himself be tread down by platoon of woman and doctor and maid and attendant. worry almost beyond endurance by the shift and change of her poor restless whim. hopeless with no heart to meet his many enemy. 
he have take the wife to his raw new palace in san diego where she and her people occupy a wing of great price and cheyne in a verandah room between a secretary and a typewriter who be also a telegraphist toil along wearily from day to day. there be a war of rate among four western railroad in which he be suppose to be interest. a devastate strike have develop in his lumber camp in oregon and the legislature of the state of california which ha no love for it maker be prepare open war against him. 
ordinarily he would have accept battle ere it be offer and have wag a pleasant and unscrupulous campaign. but now he sit limply his soft black hat push forward on to his nose his big body shrink inside his loose clothe star at his boot or the chinese junk in the bay and assent absently to the secretary s question a he open the saturday mail. 
cheyne be wonder how much it would cost to drop everything and pull out. he carry huge insurance could buy himself royal annuity and between one of his place in colorado and a little society. that would do the wife good. say in washington and the south carolina island a man might forget plan that have come to nothing. on the other hand. 
the click of the typewriter stop. the girl be look at the secretary who have turn white. 
he pass cheyne a telegram repeat from san francisco. 
pick up by fish schooner we re here have fall off boat great time on bank fish all well wait gloucester mass care disko troop for money or order wire what shall do and how be mama harvey n. cheyne. 
the father let it fall lay his head down on the roller top of the shut desk and breathe heavily. the secretary run for mr. cheyne s doctor who find cheyne pace to and fro. 
what what d you think of it. be it possible. be there any mean to it. i can t quite make it out he cry. 
i can say the doctor. i lose seven thousand a year that s all. he think of the struggle new york practice he have drop at cheyne s imperious bid and return the telegram with a sigh. 
you mean you d tell her. maybe a fraud. 
what s the motive. say the doctor coolly. detection s too certain. it s the boy sure enough. 
enter a french maid impudently a an indispensable one who be keep on only by large wage. 
mr. cheyne she say you must come at once. she think you be seek. 
the master of thirty million bow his head meekly and follow suzanne. and a thin high voice on the upper land of the great white wood square staircase cry. what be it. what ha happen. 
no door could keep out the shriek that ring through the echo house a moment late when her husband blurt out the news. 
and that s all right say the doctor serenely to the typewriter. about the only medical statement in novel with any truth to it be that joy don t kill miss kinzey. 
i know it. but we ve a heap to do first. miss kinzey be from milwaukee somewhat direct of speech. and a her fancy lean towards the secretary she divine there be work in hand. he be look earnestly at the vast roller map of america on the wall. 
milsom we re go right across. private car straight through boston. fix the connection shout cheyne down the staircase. 
i think so. 
the secretary turn to the typewriter and their eye meet. out of that be bear a story nothing to do with this story. she look inquiringly doubtful of his resource. he sign to her to move to the morse a a general bring brigade into action. then he sweep his hand. musician wise through his hair regard the ceiling and set to work while miss kinzey s white finger call up the continent of america. 
k. h. wade los angeles the constance be at los angeles isn t she miss kinzey. 
yep. miss kinzey nod between click a the secretary look at his watch. 
ready. send constance private car here and arrange for special to leave here sunday in time to connect with new york limit at sixteenth street chicago tuesday next. 
click click click. couldn t you good that. 
not on those grade. that give em sixty hour from here to chicago. they win t gain anything by take a special east of that. ready. also arrange with lake shore and michigan southern to take constance on new york central and hudson river buffalo to albany and b. and a. the same albany to boston. indispensable i should reach boston wednesday even. be sure nothing prevent. have also wire canniff toucey and barnes. sign cheyne. 
miss kinzey nod and the secretary go on. 
now then. canniff toucey and barnes of course. ready. canniff chicago. please take my private car constance from santa fe at sixteenth street next tuesday p. m. on n. y. limit through to buffalo and deliver n. y. c. for albany. ever bin to n york miss kinzey. we ll go some day. ready. take car buffalo to albany on limit tuesday p. m. that s for toucey. 
haven t bin to noo york but i know that. with a toss of the head. 
beg pardon. now boston and albany barnes same instruction from albany through to boston. leave three five p. m. you needn t wire that. arrive nine five p. m. wednesday. that cover everything wade will do but it pay to shake up the manager. 
it s great say miss kinzey with a look of admiration. this be the kind of man she understand and appreciate. 
tisn t bad say milsom modestly. now any one but me would have lose thirty hour and spend a week work out the run instead of hand him over to the santa fe straight through to chicago. 
but see here about that noo york limit. chauncey depew himself couldn t hitch his car to her miss kinzey suggest recover herself. 
yes but this isn t chauncey. it s cheyne lightning. it go. 
even so. guess we d good wire the boy. you ve forget that anyhow. 
i ll ask. 
when he return with the father s message bid harvey meet them in boston at an appoint hour he find miss kinzey laugh over the key. then milsom laugh too for the frantic click from los angeles run. we want to know why why why. general uneasiness develop and spread. 
ten minute late chicago appeal to miss kinzey in these word. if crime of century be mature please warn friend in time. we be all get to cover here. 
this be cap by a message from topeka. and wherein topeka be concern even milsom could not guess. don t shoot colonel. we ll come down. 
cheyne smile grimly at the consternation of his enemy when the telegram be lay before him. they think we re on the war path. tell em we don t feel like fight just now milsom. tell em what we re go for. i guess you and miss kinzey have good come along though it isn t likely i shall do any business on the road. tell em the truth for once. 
so the truth be tell. miss kinzey click in the sentiment while the secretary add the memorable quotation let u have peace and in board room two thousand mile away the representative of sixty three million dollar worth of variously manipulate railroad interest breathe more freely. cheyne be fly to meet the only son so miraculously restore to him. the bear be seek his cub not the bull. hard men who have their knife draw to fight for their financial life put away the weapon and wish him god speed while half a dozen panic smite tin pot road perk up their head and speak of the wonderful thing they would have do have not cheyne bury the hatchet. 
it be a busy week end among the wire. for now that their anxiety be remove men and city hasten to accommodate. los angeles call to san diego and barstow that the southern california engineer might know and be ready in their lonely round house. barstow pass the word to the atlantic and pacific. the albuquerque fling it the whole length of the atchison topeka and santa fe management even into chicago. an engine combination car with crew and the great and gild constance private car be to be expedite over those two thousand three hundred and fifty mile. the train would take precedence of one hundred and seventy seven others meet and pass. despatch and crew of every one of those say train must be notify. sixteen locomotive sixteen engineer and sixteen fireman would be need each and every one the best available. two and one half minute would be allow for change engine three for water and two for coal. warn the men and arrange tank and chute accordingly. for harvey cheyne be in a hurry a hurry a hurry sing the wire. forty mile an hour will be expect and division superintendent will accompany this special over their respective division. from san diego to sixteenth street chicago let the magic carpet be lay down. hurry. oh hurry. 
it will be hot say cheyne a they roll out of san diego in the dawn of sunday. we re go to hurry mama just a fast a ever we can. but i really don t think there s any good of your put on your bonnet and glove yet. you d much good lie down and take your medicine. i d play you a game o domino but it s sunday. 
i ll be good. oh i will be good. only take off my bonnet make me feel a if we d never get there. 
try to sleep a little mama and we ll be in chicago before you know. 
but it s boston father. tell them to hurry. 
the six foot driver be hammer their way to san bernardino and the mohave waste but this be no grade for speed. that would come late. the heat of the desert follow the heat of the hill a they turn east to the needle and the colorado river. the car crack in the utter drought and glare and they put crush ice to mr. cheyne s neck and toil up the long long grade past ash fork towards flagstaff where the forest and quarry be under the dry remote sky. the needle of the speed indicator flick and wag to and fro. the cinder rattle on the roof and a whirl of dust suck after the whirl wheel the crew of the combination sit on their bunk pant in their shirt sleeve and cheyne find himself among them shout old old story of the railroad that every trainman know above the roar of the car. he tell them about his son and how the sea have give up it dead and they nod and spat and rejoice with him. ask after her back there and whether she could stand it if the engineer let her out a piece and cheyne think she could. accordingly the great fire horse be let out from flagstaff to winslow till a division superintendent protest. 
but mr. cheyne in the boudoir state room where the french maid sallow white with fear cling to the silver door handle only moan a little and beg her husband to bid them hurry. and so they drop the dry sand and moon strike rock of arizona behind them and grill on till the crash of the coupling and the wheeze of the brake hose tell them they be at coolidge by the continental divide. three bold and experience men cool confident and dry when they begin. white quiver and wet when they finish their trick at those terrible wheel swing her over the great lift from albuquerque to glorietta and beyond springer up and up to the raton tunnel on the state line whence they drop rock into la junta have sight of the arkansaw and tear down the long slope to dodge city where cheyne take comfort once again from set his watch an hour ahead. 
there be very little talk in the car. the secretary and typewriter sit together on the stamp spanish leather cushion by the plate glass observation window at the rear end watch the surge and ripple of the tie crowd back behind them and it be believe make note of the scenery. cheyne move nervously between his own extravagant gorgeousness and the naked necessity of the combination an unlit cigar in his teeth till the pity crew forget that he be their tribal enemy and do their best to entertain him. 
at night the bunch electric light up that distressful palace of all the luxury and they fare sumptuously swing on through the emptiness of abject desolation. now they hear the swish of a water tank and the guttural voice of a china man the clink clink of hammer that test the krupp steel wheel and the oath of a tramp chase off the rear platform. now the solid crash of coal shoot into the tender. and now a beat back of noise a they fly past a wait train. now they look out into great abyss a trestle purr beneath their tread or up to rock that bar out half the star. now scaur and ravine change and roll back to jag mountain on the horizon s edge and now break into hill low and low till at last come the true plain. 
at dodge city an unknown hand throw in a copy of a kansa paper contain some sort of an interview with harvey who have evidently fall in with an enterprising reporter telegraph on from boston. the joyful journalese reveal that it be beyond question their boy and it soothe mr. cheyne for a while. her one word hurry be convey by the crew to the engineer at nickerson topeka and marceline where the grade be easy and they brush the continent behind them. town and village be close together now and a man could feel here that he move among people. 
i can t see the dial and my eye ache so. what be we do. 
the very best we can mama. there s no sense in get in before the limit. we d only have to wait. 
i don t care. i want to feel we re move. sit down and tell me the mile. 
cheyne sit down and read the dial for her. there be some mile which stand for record to this day. but the seventy foot car never change it long steamer like roll move through the heat with the hum of a giant bee. yet the speed be not enough for mr. cheyne. and the heat the remorseless august heat be make her giddy. the clock hand would not move and when oh when would they be in chicago. 
it be not true that a they change engine at fort madison cheyne pass over to the amalgamate brotherhood of locomotive engineer an endowment sufficient to enable them to fight him and his fellow on equal term for evermore. he pay his obligation to engineer and fireman a he believe they deserve and only his bank know what he give the crew who have sympathise with him. it be on record that the last crew take entire charge of switch operation at sixteenth street because she be in a doze at last and heaven be to help any one who bump her. 
now the highly pay specialist who convey the lake shore and michigan southern limit from chicago to elkhart be something of an autocrat and he doe not approve of be tell how to back up to a car. none the le he handle the constance a if she might have be a load of dynamite and when the crew rebuke him they do it in whisper and dumb show. 
pshaw. say the atchison topeka and santa fe men discuss life late we weren t runnin for a record. harvey cheyne s wife she be sick back an we didn t want to jounce her. come to think of it our runnin time from san diego to chicago be. you can tell that to them eastern way train. when we re tryin for a record we ll let you know. 
to the western man. though this would not please either city. chicago and boston be cheek by jowl and some railroad encourage the delusion. the limit whirl the constance into buffalo and the arm of the new york central and hudson river. illustrious magnate with white whisker and gold charm on their watch chain board her here to talk a little business to cheyne. who slide her gracefully into albany where the boston and albany complete the run from tide water to tide water total time eighty seven hour and thirty five minute or three day fifteen hour and one half. harvey be wait for them. 
after violent emotion most people and all boy demand food. they feast the return prodigal behind draw curtain cut off in their great happiness while the train roar in and out around them. harvey eat drink and enlarge on his adventure all in one breath and when he have a hand free his mother fondle it. his voice be thicken with live in the open salt air. his palm be rough and hard his wrist dot with the mark of gurry sore. and a fine full flavour of cod fish hang round rubber boot and blue jersey. 
the father well use to judge men look at him keenly. he do not know what endure harm the boy might have take. indeed he catch himself think that he know very little whatever of his son. but he distinctly remember an unsatisfied dough face youth who take delight in call down the old man and reduce his mother to tear such a person a add to the gaiety of public room and hotel piazza where the ingenuous young of the wealthy play with or revile the bell boy. but this well set up fisher youth do not wriggle look at him with eye steady clear and unflinching and speak in a tone distinctly even startlingly respectful. there be that in his voice too which seem to promise that the change might be permanent and that the new harvey have come to stay. 
some one s be coerce him think cheyne. now constance would never have allow that. don t see a europe could have do it any good. 
but why didn t you tell this man troop who you be. the mother repeat when harvey have expand his story at least twice. 
disko troop dear. the best man that ever walk a deck. i don t care who the next be. 
why didn t you tell him to put you ashore. you know papa would have make it up to him ten time over. 
i know it. but he think i be crazy. i m afraid i call him a thief because i couldn t find the bill in my pocket. 
a sailor find them by the flagstaff that that night sob mr. cheyne. 
that explain it then. i don t blame troop any. i just say i wouldn t work on a banker too and of course he hit me on the nose and oh. i bleed like a stick hog. 
my poor darling. they must have abuse you horribly. 
dunno quite. well after that i saw a light. 
cheyne slap his leg and chuckle. this be go to be a boy after his own hungry heart. he have never see precisely that twinkle in harvey s eye before. 
and the old man give me ten and a half a month. he s pay me half now. and i take hold with dan and pitch right in. i can t do a man s work yet. but i can handle a dory most a well a dan and i don t get rattle in a fog much. and i can take my trick in light wind that s steer dear and i can most bait up a trawl and i know my rope of course. and i can pitch fish till the cow come home and i m great on old josephus and i ll show you how i can clear coffee with a piece of fish skin and i think i ll have another cup please. say you ve no notion what a heap of work there be in ten and a half a month. 
i begin with eight and a half my son say cheyne. 
that so. you never tell me sir. 
you never ask harve. i ll tell you about it some day if you care to listen. try a stuff olive. 
troop say the most interest thing in the world be to find out how the next man get his vittles. it s great to have a trim up meal again. we be well feed though. best mug on the bank. disko feed u first class. he s a great man. and dan that s his son dan s my partner. and there s uncle salter and his manure an he read josephus. he s sure i m crazy yet. and there s poor little penn and he be crazy. you mustn t talk to him about johnstown because and oh you must know tom platt and long jack and manuel. manuel save my life. i m sorry he s a portugee. he can t talk much but he s an everlasting musician. he find me strike adrift and drift and haul me in. 
i wonder your nervous system isn t completely wreck say mr. cheyne. 
what for mama. i work like a horse and i eat like a hog and i sleep like a dead man. 
that be too much for mr. cheyne who begin to think of her vision of a corpse rock on the salty sea. she go to her state room and harvey curl up beside his father explain his indebtedness. 
you can depend upon me to do everything i can for the crowd harve. they seem to be good men on your show. 
best in the fleet sir. ask at gloucester say harvey. but disko belief still he s cure me of be crazy. dan s the only one i ve let on to about you and our private car and all the rest of it and i m not quite sure dan belief. i want to paralyse em to morrow. say can t they run the constance over to gloucester. mama don t look fit to be move anyway and we re bind to finish clean out by to morrow. wouverman take our fish. you see we re first off the bank this season and it s four twenty five a quintal. we hold out till he pay it. they want it quick. 
you mean you ll have to work to morrow then. 
i tell troop i would. i m on the scale. i ve bring the tally with me. he look at the greasy notebook with an air of importance that make his father choke. there isn t but three no two ninety four or five quintal more by my reckon. 
hire a substitute suggest cheyne to see what harvey would say. 
can t sir. i m tally man for the schooner. troop say i ve a good head for figure than dan. troop s a mighty just man. 
well suppose i don t move the constance to night how ll you fix it. 
harvey look at the clock which mark twenty past eleven. 
then i ll sleep here till three and catch the four o clock freight. they let u men from the fleet ride free a a rule. 
that s a notion. but i think we can get the constance around about a soon a your men s freight. good go to bed now. 
harvey spread himself on the sofa kick off his boot and be asleep before his father could shade the electric. cheyne sit watch the young face under the shadow of the arm throw over the forehead and among many thing that occur to him be the notion that he might perhaps have be neglectful a a father. 
one never know when one s take one s big risk he say. it might have be bad than drown. but i don t think it ha i don t think it ha. if it hasn t i haven t enough to pay troop that s all. and i don t think it ha. 
morning bring a fresh sea breeze through the window the constance be side track among freight car at gloucester and harvey have go to his business. 
then he ll fall overboard again and be drown the mother say bitterly. 
we ll go and look ready to throw him a rope in case. you ve never see him work for his bread say the father. 
what nonsense. a if any one expect. 
well the man that hire him do. he s about right too. 
they go down between the store full of fisherman s oilskin to wouverman s wharf where the we re here ride high her bank flag still fly all hand busy a beaver in the glorious morning light. disko stand by the main hatch superintend manuel penn and uncle salter at the tackle. dan be swing the load basket inboard a long jack and tom platt fill them and harvey with a notebook represent the skipper s interest before the clerk of the scale on the salt sprinkle wharf edge. 
ready. cry the voice below. haul. cry disko. hi. say manuel. here. say dan swing the basket. then they hear harvey s voice clear and fresh check the weight. 
the last of the fish have be whip out and harvey leap from the string piece six foot to a ratline a the short way to hand disko the tally shout two ninety seven and an empty hold. 
what s total harve. say disko. 
eight sixty five. three thousand six hundred and seventy six dollar and a quarter. wish i d share a well a wage. 
well i win t go so far a to say you hevn t deserve it harve. don t you want to slip up to wouverman s office and take him our tally. 
who s that boy. say cheyne to dan well use to all manner of question from those idle imbecile call summer boarder. 
well he s a kind o supercargo be the answer. we pick him up strike adrift on the bank. fell overboard from a liner he sez. he be a passenger. he s by way o bein a fisherman now. 
be he worth his keep. 
ye ep. dad this man want to know ef harve s worth his keep. say would you like to go aboard. we ll fix a ladder for her. 
i should very much indeed. twon t hurt you mama and you ll be able to see for yourself. 
the woman who could not lift her head a week ago scramble down the ladder and stand aghast amid the mess and tangle aft. 
be you anyways interest in harve. say disko. 
well ye e. 
he s a good boy an ketch right hold jest a he s bid. you ve hear haow we find him. he be sufferin from nervous prostration i guess r else his head have hit somethin when we haul him aboard. he s all over that naow. yes this be the cabin. tain t anyways in order but you re quite welcome to look around. those be his figure on the stave pipe where we keep the reckonin mostly. 
do he sleep here. say mr. cheyne sit on a yellow locker and survey the disorderly bunk. 
no. he berth forward madam an only fer him an my boy hookin fry pie an muggin up when they ought to ha be asleep i dunno a i ve any special fault to find with him. 
there weren t nothin wrong with harve say uncle salter descend the step. he hang my boot on the main truck and he ain t over an above respectful to such a know more n he do especially about farmin. but he be mostly mislead by dan. 
dan in the meantime profit by dark hint from harvey early that morning be execute a war dance on deck. tom tom. he whisper down the hatch. his folk ha come an dad hain t catch on yet an they re pow wowin in the cabin. she s a daisy an he s all harve claim he be by the look of him. 
howly smoke. say long jack climb out cover with salt and fish skin. d ye belave his tale av the kid an the little four horse rig be thrue. 
i know it all along say dan. come an see dad mistake in his judgment. 
they come delightedly just in time to hear cheyne say. i m glad he ha a good character because he s my son. 
disko s jaw fell long jack always vow that he hear the click of it and he star alternately at the man and the woman. 
i get his telegram in san diego four day ago and we come over. 
in a private car. say dan. he say ye might. 
in a private car of course. 
dan look at his father with a hurricane of irreverent wink. 
there be a tale he tould u av drivin four little pony in a rig av his own say long jack. be that thrue now. 
very likely say cheyne. be it mama. 
he have a little drag when we be in toledo i think say the mother. 
long jack whistle. oh disko. say he and that be all. 
i wuz i be mistake in my jedgments bad n the men o marblehead say disko a though the word be be windlassed out of him. i don t mind ownin to you mister cheyne a i mistrust the boy to be crazy. he talk kind odd about money. 
so he tell me. 
do he tell ye anything else. cause i pound him once. this with a somewhat anxious glance at mr. cheyne. 
oh yes cheyne reply. i should say it probably do him more good than anything else in the world. 
i jedged twuz necessary er i wouldn t ha do it. i don t want you to think we abuse our boy any on this packet. 
i don t think you do mr. troop. 
mr. cheyne have be look at the face disko s ivory yellow hairless iron countenance. uncle salter s with it rim of agricultural hair. penn s bewilder simplicity. manuel s quiet smile. long jack s grin of delight. and tom platt s scar. rough by her standard they certainly be. but she have a mother s wit in her eye and she rise with outstretched hand. 
oh tell me which be who. say she half sob. i want to thank you and bless you all of you. 
faith that pay me a hunder time say long jack. 
disko introduce them all in due form. the captain of an old time chinaman could have do no good and mr. cheyne babble incoherently. she nearly throw herself into manuel s arm when she understand that he have first find harvey. 
but how shall i leave him dreeft. say poor manuel. what do you yourself if you find him so. eh wha at. we be in one good boy and i be ever so please he come to be your son. 
and he tell me dan be his partner. she cry. dan be already sufficiently pink but he turn a rich crimson when mr. cheyne kiss him on both cheek before the assembly. then they lead her forward to show her the fo c sle at which she weep again and must need go down to see harvey s identical bunk and there she find the nigger cook clean up the stave and he nod a though she be some one he have expect to meet for year. they try two at a time to explain the boat s daily life to her and she sit by the pawl post her gloved hand on the greasy table laugh with tremble lip and cry with dance eye. 
and who s ever to use the we re here after this. say long jack to tom platt. i feel it a if she d make a cathedral av ut all. 
cathedral. sneer tom platt. oh ef it have bin even the fish c mmission boat instid o this bally hoo o blaze. ef we only hed some decency an order an side boy when she go over. she ll have to climb that ladder like a hen an we we ought to be mannin the yard. 
then harvey be not mad say penn slowly to cheyne. 
no indeed thank god the big millionaire reply stoop down tenderly. 
it must be terrible to be mad. except to lose your child i do not know anything more terrible. but your child ha come back. let u thank god for that. 
hello. say harvey look down upon them benignly from the wharf. 
i wuz mistake harve. i wuz mistake say disko swiftly hold up a hand. i wuz mistake in my jedgments. ye needn t rub it in any more. 
guess i ll take care o that say dan under his breath. 
you ll be goin off naow win t ye. 
well not without the balance of my wage le you want to have the we re here attach. 
thet s so. i d clean forget. and he count out the remain dollar. you do all you contract to do harve. and you do it baout s well a ef you d be bring up here disko bring himself up. he do not quite see where the sentence be go to end. 
outside of a private car. suggest dan wickedly. 
come on and i ll show her to you say harvey. 
cheyne stay to talk to disko but the others make a procession to the depot with mr. cheyne at the head. the french maid shriek at the invasion. and harvey lay the glory of the constance before them without a word. they take them in in equal silence stamp leather silver door handle and rail cut velvet plate glass nickel bronze hammer iron and the rare wood of the continent inlay. 
i tell you say harvey. i tell you. this be his crown revenge and a most ample one. 
mr. cheyne decree a meal. and that nothing might be lack to the tale long jack tell afterwards in his board house she wait on them herself. men who be accustom to eat at tiny table in howl gale have curiously neat and finish table manner. but mr. cheyne who do not know this be surprise. she long to have manuel for a butler. so silently and easily do he comport himself among the frail glassware and dainty silver. tom platt remember great day on the ohio and the manner of foreign potentate who din with the officer. and long jack be irish supply the small talk till all be at their ease. 
in the we re here s cabin the father take stock of each other behind their cigar. cheyne know well enough when he deal with a man to whom he could not offer money. equally well he know that no money could pay for what disko have do. he keep his own counsel and wait for an open. 
i hevn t do anything to your boy or fer your boy excep make him work a piece an learn him how to handle the hog yoke say disko. he ha twice my boy s head for figgers. 
by the way cheyne answer casually what d you calculate to make of your boy. 
disko remove his cigar and wave it comprehensively round the cabin. dan s jest plain boy an he don t allow me to do any of his thinkin. he ll hev this able little packet when i m lay by. he ain t noways anxious to quit the business. i know that. 
mmm. ever be west mr. troop. 
bin s fer ez noo york once in a boat. i ve no use for railroad. no more hez dan. salt water s good enough fer the troop. i ve be most everywhere in the nat ral way o course. 
i can give him all the salt water he s likely to need till he s a skipper. 
haow s that. i think you wuz a kind railroad king. harve tell me so when i be mistake in my jedgments. 
we re all apt to be mistake. i fancy perhaps you might know i own a line of tea clipper san francisco to yokohama six of em iron build about seventeen hundred and eighty ton apiece. 
blame that boy. he never tell. i d ha listen to that instid o his truck abaout railroad an pony carriage. 
he didn t know. 
little thing like that slip his mind i guess. 
no i only capt take hold of the blue m. freighter morgan and mcquade s old line this summer. 
disko collapse where he sit beside the stave. 
great caesar almighty. i mistrust i ve bin fool from one end to the other. why phil airheart he go from this very town six year back no seven an he s mate on the san jos now twenty six day be her time out. his sister she s livin here yet an she read his letter to my woman. an you own the blue m. freighter. 
cheyne nod. 
if i d know that i d ha jerk the we re here back to port all standin on the word. 
perhaps that wouldn t have be so good for harvey. 
ef i d only know. ef he d only say about the cuss line i d ha understand. i ll never stand on my own jedgments again never. they re well find packet phil airheart he say so. 
i m glad to have a recommend from that quarter. airheart s skipper of the san jos now. what i be get at be to know whether you d lend me dan for a year or two and we ll see if we can t make a mate of him. would you trust him to airheart. 
it s a resk take a raw boy. 
i know a man who do more for me. 
that s diff runt. look at here naow i ain t recommendin dan special because he s my own flesh an blood. i know bank way ain t clipper way but he hain t much to learn. steer he can no boy good ef i say it an the rest s in our blood an get. but i could wish he warn t so cuss weak on navigation. 
airheart will attend to that. he ll ship a a boy for a voyage or two and then we can put him in the way of do good. suppose you take him in hand this winter and i ll send for him early in the spring. i know the pacific s a long way off. 
pshaw. we troop livin an dead be all around the earth an the sea thereof. 
but i want you to understand and i mean this any time you think you d like to see him tell me and i ll attend to the transportation. twon t cost you a cent. 
ef you ll walk a piece with me we ll go to my house an talk this to my woman. i ve bin so crazy mistake in all my jedgments it don t seem to me this be like to be real. 
they go over to troop s eighteen hundred dollar blue trim white house with a retire dory full of nasturtium in the front yard and a shutter parlor which be a museum of oversea plunder. there sit a large woman silent and grave with the dim eye of those who look long to sea for the return of their beloved. cheyne address himself to her and she give consent wearily. 
we lose one hundred a year from gloucester only mr. cheyne she say one hundred boy an men. and i ve come so s to hate the sea a if twuz alive an listenin. god never make it fer human to anchor on. these packet o yours they go straight out i take it and straight home again. 
a straight a the wind let em and i give a bonus for record passage. tea don t improve by be at sea. 
when he wuz little he use to play at keep store an i have hope he might follow that up. but soon s he could paddle a dory i know that be goin to be deny me. 
they re square rigger mother. iron build an well find. remember what phil s sister read you when she git his letter. 
i ve never know a phil tell lie but he s too venturesome. like most of em that use the sea. ef dan see fit mr. cheyne he can go fer all o me. 
she jest despise the ocean disko explain an i i dunno haow to act polite i guess er i d thank you good. 
my father my own eldest brother two nephew an my second sister s man she say drop her head on her hand. would you care fer any one that take all those. 
cheyne be relieve when dan turn up and accept with more delight than he be able to put into word. indeed the offer mean a plain and sure road to all desirable thing. but dan think most of command watch on broad deck and look into far away harbour. 
mr. cheyne have speak privately to the unaccountable manuel in the matter of harvey s rescue. he seem to have no desire for money. press hard he say that he would take five dollar because he want to buy something for a girl. otherwise how shall i take money when i make so easy my eat and smoke. you will giva some if i like or no. eh wha at. then you shall giva me money but not that way. you shall giva all you can think. he introduce her to a snuffy portuguese priest with a list of semi destitute widow a long a his cassock. a a strict unitarian mr. cheyne could not sympathise with the creed but she end by respect the brown voluble little man. 
manuel faithful son of the church appropriate all the blessing shower on her for her charity. that letta me out say he. i have now v good absolution for six month. and he stroll forth to get a handkerchief for the girl of the hour and to break the heart of all the others. 
salter go west for a season with penn and leave no address behind. he have a dread that these millionary people with wasteful private car might take undue interest in his companion. it be good to visit inland relative till the coast be clear. never you be adopt by rich folk penn he say in the car or i ll take n break this checker board over your head. ef you forgit your name agin which be pratt you remember you belong with salter troop an set down right where you be till i come fer you. don t go taggin araound after them whose eye bung out with fatness accordin to scripcher. 
chapter x. 
but it be otherwise with the we re here s silent cook for he come up his kit in a handkerchief and board the constance. pay be no particular object and he do not in the least care where he sleep. his business a reveal to him in dream be to follow harvey for the rest of his day. they try argument and at last persuasion. but there be a difference between one cape breton and two alabama negro and the matter be refer to cheyne by the cook and porter. the millionaire only laugh. he presume harvey might need a body servant some day or other and be sure that one volunteer be worth five hireling. let the man stay therefore. even though he call himself macdonald and swear in gaelic. the car could go back to boston where if he be still of the same mind they would take him west. 
with the constance which in his heart of heart he loathe depart the last remnant of cheyne s millionairedom and he give himself up to an energetic idleness. this gloucester be a new town in a new land and he purpose to take it in a of old he have take in all the city from snohomish to san diego of that world whence he hail. they make money along the crook street which be half wharf and half ship s store. a a lead professional he wish to learn how the noble game be play. men say that four out of every five fish ball serve at new england s sunday breakfast come from gloucester and overwhelm him with figure in proof statistic of boat gear wharf frontage capital invest salt pack factory insurance wage repair and profit. he talk with the owner of the large fleet whose skipper be little more than hire men and whose crew be almost all swede or portuguese. then he confer with disko one of the few who own their craft and compare note in his vast head. he coil himself away on chain cable in marine junk shop ask question with cheerful unslaked western curiosity till all the water front want to know what in thunder that man be after anyhow. he prowl into the mutual insurance room and demand explanation of the mysterious remark chalk up on the blackboard day by day. and that bring down upon him secretary of every fisherman s widow and orphan aid society within the city limit. they beg shamelessly each man anxious to beat the other institution s record and cheyne tug at his beard and hand them all over to mr. cheyne. 
she be rest in a board house near eastern point a strange establishment manage apparently by the boarder where the table cloth be red and white checker and the population who seem to have know one another intimately for year rise up at midnight to make welsh rare bit if it felt hungry. on the second morning of her stay mr. cheyne put away her diamond solitaire before she come down to breakfast. 
they re most delightful people she confide to her husband. so friendly and simple too though they be all boston nearly. 
that isn t simpleness mama he say look across the boulder behind the apple tree where the hammock be sling. it s the other thing that we that i haven t get. 
it can t be say mr. cheyne quietly. there isn t a woman here own a dress that cost a hundred dollar. why we. 
i know it dear. we have of course we have. i guess it s only the style they wear east. be you have a good time. 
i don t see very much of harvey. he s always with you. but i ain t near a nervous a i be. 
i haven t have such a good time since willie die. i never rightly understand that i have a son before this. harve s get to be a great boy. anything i can fetch you dear. cushion under your head. well we ll go down to the wharf again and look around. 
harvey be his father s shadow in those day and the two stroll along side by side cheyne use the grade a an excuse for lay his hand on the boy s square shoulder. it be then that harvey notice and admire what have never strike him before his father s curious power of get at the heart of new matter a learn from men in the street. 
how d you make em tell you everything without open your head. demand the son a they come out of a rigger s loft. 
i ve deal with quite a few men in my time harve and one size em up somehow i guess. i know something about myself too. then after a pause a they sit down on a wharf edge. men can most always tell when a man ha handle thing for himself and then they treat him a one of themselves. 
same a they treat me down at wouverman s wharf. i m one of the crowd now. disko ha tell every one i ve earn my pay. harvey spread out his hand and rub the palm together. they re all soft again he say dolefully. 
keep em that way for the next few year while you re get your education. you can harden em up after. 
ye e i suppose so be the reply in no delight voice. 
it rest with you harve. you can take cover behind your mama of course and put her on to fuss about your nerve and your highstrungness and all that kind of poppycock. 
have i ever do that. say harvey uneasily. 
his father turn where he sit and thrust out a long hand. you know a well a i do that i can t make anything of you if you don t act straight by me. i can handle you alone if you ll stay alone but i don t pretend to manage both you and mama. life s too short anyway. 
don t make me out much of a fellow doe it. 
i guess it be my fault a good deal. but if you want the truth you haven t be much of anything up to date. now have you. 
umm. disko think. say what d you reckon it s cost you to raise me from the start first last and all over. 
cheyne smile. i ve never keep track but i should estimate in dollar and cent near fifty than forty thousand. maybe sixty. the young generation come high. it ha to have thing and it tire of em and the old man foot the bill. 
harvey whistle but at heart he be rather please to think that his upbringing have cost so much. and all that s sink capital isn t it. 
invest harve. invest i hope. 
make it only thirty thousand the thirty i ve earn be about ten cent on the hundred. that s a mighty poor catch. harvey wag his head solemnly. 
cheyne laugh till he nearly fell off the pile into the water. 
disko ha get a heap more than that out of dan since he be ten. and dan s at school half the year too. 
oh that s what you re after be it. 
no. i m not after anything. i m not stick on myself any just now that s all. i ought to be kick. 
i can t do it old man. or i would i presume if i d be make that way. 
then i d have remember it to the last day i live and never forgive you say harvey his chin on his double fist. 
exactly. that s about what i d do. you see. 
i see. the fault s with me and no one else. all the samey something s get to be do about it. 
cheyne draw a cigar from his vest pocket bite off the end and fell to smoke. father and son be very much alike. for the beard hide cheyne s mouth and harvey have his father s slightly aquiline nose close set black eye and narrow high cheek bone. with a touch of brown paint he would have make up very picturesquely a a red indian of the story book. 
now you can go on from here say cheyne slowly cost me between six or eight thousand a year till you re a voter. well we ll call you a man then. you can go right on from that live on me to the tune of forty or fifty thousand besides what your mother will give you with a valet and a yacht or a fancy ranch where you can pretend to raise trot stock and play card with your own crowd. 
like lorry tuck. harvey put in. 
yep. or the two de vitr boy or old man mcquade s son. california s full of em and here s an eastern sample while we re talk. 
a shiny black steam yacht with mahogany deck house nickel plat binnacle and pink and white strip awning puff up the harbour fly the burgee of some new york club. two young men in what they conceive to be sea costume be play card by the saloon skylight. and a couple of woman with red and blue parasol look on and laugh noisily. 
shouldn t care to be catch out in her in any sort of a breeze. no beam say harvey critically a the yacht slow to pick up her moor buoy. 
they re have what stand them for a good time. i can give you that and twice a much a that harve. how d you like it. 
caesar. that s no way to get a dinghy over side say harvey still intent on the yacht. if i couldn t slip a tackle good than that i d stay ashore. what if i don t. 
stay ashore or what. 
yacht and ranch and live on the old man and get behind mama when there s trouble say harvey with a twinkle in his eye. 
why in that case you come right in with me my son. 
ten dollar a month. another twinkle. 
not a cent more until you re worth it and you win t begin to touch that for a few year. 
i d sooner begin sweep out the office isn t that how the big bug start. and touch something now than. 
i know it. we all feel that way. but i guess we can hire any sweep we need. i make the same mistake myself of start in too soon. 
thirty million dollar worth o mistake wasn t it. i d risk it for that. 
i lose some. and i gain some. i ll tell you. 
cheyne pull his beard and smile a he look over the still water and speak away from harvey who presently begin to be aware that his father be tell the story of his life. he talk in a low even voice without gesture and without expression. and it be a history for which a dozen lead journal would cheerfully have pay many dollar the story of forty year that be at the same time the story of the new west whose story be yet to be write. 
it begin with a kinless boy turn loose in texas and go on fantastically through a hundred change and chop of life the scene shift from state after western state from city that spring up in a month and in a season utterly wither away to wild venture in wild camp that be now laborious pave municipality. it cover the build of three railroad and the deliberate wreck of a fourth. it tell of steamer township forest and mine and the men of every nation under heaven man create hew and dig these. it touch on chance of gigantic wealth fling before eye that could not see or miss by the mere accident of time and travel. and through the mad shift of thing sometimes on horseback more often afoot now rich now poor in and out and back and forth deck hand train hand contractor boardinghouse keeper journalist engineer drummer real estate agent politician dead beat rumseller mine owner speculator cattle man or tramp move harvey cheyne alert and quiet seek his own end and so he say the glory and advancement of his country. 
he tell of the faith that never desert him even when he hang on the rag edge of despair the faith that come of know men and thing. he enlarge a though he be talk to himself on his very great courage and resource at all time. the thing be so evident in the man s mind that he never even change his tone. he describe how he have best his enemy or forgive them exactly a they have best or forgive him in those careless day. how he have entreat cajole and bully town company and syndicate all for their endure good. crawl round through or under mountain and ravine drag a string and hoop iron railroad after him and in the end how he have sit still while promiscuous community tear the last fragment of his character to shred. 
the tale hold harvey almost breathless his head a little cock to one side his eye fix on his father s face a the twilight deepen and the red cigar end light up the furrow cheek and heavy eyebrow. it seem to him like watch a locomotive storm across country in the dark a mile between each glare of the open fire door. but this locomotive could talk and the word shake and stir the boy to the core of his soul. at last cheyne pitch away the cigar butt and the two sit in the dark over the lap water. 
i ve never tell that to any one before say the father. 
harvey gasp. it s just the great thing that ever be. say he. 
that s what i get. now i m come to what i didn t get. it win t sound much of anything to you but i don t wish you to be a old a i be before you find out. i can handle men of course and i m no fool along my own line but but i can t compete with the man who ha be teach. i ve pick up a i go along and i guess it stick out all over me. 
i ve never see it say the son indignantly. 
you will though harve. you will just a soon a you re through college. don t i know it. don t i know the look on men s face when they think me a a mucker a they call it out here. i can break them to little piece yes but i can t get back at em to hurt em where they live. i don t say they re way way up but i feel i m way way way off somehow. now you ve get your chance. you ve get to soak up all the learn that s around and you ll live with a crowd that be do the same thing. they ll be do it for a few thousand dollar a year at most. but remember you ll be do it for million. you ll learn law enough to look after your own property when i m out o the light and you ll have to be solid with the best men in the market. they be useful late. and above all you ll have to stow away the plain common sit down with your chin on your elbow book learn. nothing pay like that harve and it s bind to pay more and more each year in our country in business and in politics. you ll see. 
there s no sugar my end of the deal say harvey. four year at college. wish i d choose the valet and the yacht. 
never mind my son cheyne insist. you re invest your capital where it ll bring in the best return. and i guess you win t find our property shrink any when you re ready to take hold. think it over and let me know in the morning. hurry. we ll be late for supper. 
a this be a business talk there be no need for harvey to tell his mother about it. and cheyne naturally take the same point of view. but mr. cheyne saw and fear and be a little jealous. her boy who ride rough shoe over her be go and in his stead reign a keen face youth abnormally silent who address most of his conversation to his father. she understand it be business and therefore a matter beyond her premise. if she have any doubt they be resolve when cheyne go to boston and bring back a new diamond marquise ring. 
what have you two men be do now. she say with a weak little smile a she turn it in the light. 
talk just talk mama. there s nothing mean about harvey. 
there be not. the boy have make a treaty on his own account. railroad he explain gravely interest him a little a lumber real estate or mine. what his soul yearn after be control of his father s newly purchase sail ship. if that could be promise him within what he conceive to be a reasonable time he for his part guarantee diligence and sobriety at college for four or five year. in vacation he be to be allow full access to all detail connect with the line he have ask not more than two thousand question about it from his father s most private paper in the safe to the tug in san francisco harbour. 
it s a deal say cheyne at the last. you ll alter your mind twenty time before you leave college o course. but if you take hold of it in proper shape and if you don t tie it up before you re twenty three i ll make the thing over to you. how s that harve. 
nope. never pay to split up a go concern there s too much competition in the world anyway and disko say blood kin hev to stick together. his crowd never go back on him. that s one reason he say why they make such big fare. say the we re here go off to the george on monday. they don t stay long ashore do they. 
well we ought to be go too i guess. i ve leave my business hang up at loose end between two ocean and it s time to connect again. i just hate to do it though. haven t have a holiday like this for twenty year. 
we can t go without see disko off say harvey. and monday s memorial day. let s stay over that anyway. 
what be this memorial business. they be talk about it at the board house say cheyne weakly. he too be not anxious to spoil the golden day. 
well a far a i can make out this business be a sort of song and dance act whack up for the summer boarder. disko don t think much of it he say because they take up a collection for the widow and orphan. disko s independent. haven t you notice that. 
well yes. a little. in spot. be it a town show then. 
the summer convention be. they read out the name of the fellow drown or go astray since last time and they make speech and recite and all. then disko say the secretary of the aid society go into the back yard and fight over the catch. the real show he say be in the spring. the minister all take a hand then and there aren t any summer boarder around. 
i see say cheyne with the brilliant and perfect comprehension of one bear into and breed up to city pride. we ll stay over for memorial day and get off in the afternoon. 
guess i ll go down to disko s and make him bring his crowd up before they sail. i ll have to stand with them of course. 
oh that s it be it say cheyne. i m only a poor summer boarder and you re. 
a banker full blood banker harvey call back a he board a trolley and cheyne go on with his blissful dream for the future. 
disko have no use for public function where appeal be make for charity but harvey plead that the glory of the day would be lose so far a he be concern if the we re here absent themselves. then disko make condition. he have hear it be astonish how all the world know all the world s business along the waterfront he have hear that a philadelphia actress woman be go to take part in the exercise. and he mistrust that she would deliver skipper ireson s ride. personally he have a little use for actress a for summer boarder. but justice be justice and though he himself. here dan giggle. have once slip up on a matter of judgment this thing must not be. so harvey come back to east gloucester and spend half a day explain to an amuse actress with a royal reputation on two seaboard the inwardness of the mistake she contemplate. and she admit that it be justice even a disko have say. 
cheyne know by old experience what would happen. but anything of the nature of a public palaver be meat and drink to the man s soul. he saw the trolley hurry west in the hot hazy morning full of woman in light summer dress and white face straw hat men fresh from boston desk. the stack of bicycle outside the post office. the come and go of busy official greet one another. the slow flick and swash of bunt in the heavy air. and the important man with a hose sluice the brick sidewalk. 
mother he say suddenly don t you remember after seattle be burn out and they get her go again. 
mr. cheyne nod and look critically down the crook street. like her husband she understand these gathering all the west over and compare them one against another. the fisherman begin to mingle with the crowd about the town hall door blue jowled portuguese their woman bare head or shawled for the most part. clear eye nova scotians and men of the maritime province. french italian swede and dane with outside crew of coast schooner. and everywhere woman in black who salute one another with a gloomy pride for this be their day of great day. and there be minister of many creed pastor of great gild edge congregation at the seaside for a rest with shepherd of the regular work from the priest of the church on the hill to bush beard ex sailor lutheran hail fellow with the men of a score of boat. there be owner of line of schooner large contributor to the society and small men their few craft pawn to the masthead with banker and marine insurance agent captain of tug and water boat rigger fitter lumper salter boat builder and cooper and all the mix population of the water front. 
they drift along the line of seat make gay with the dress of the summer boarder and one of the town official patrol and perspire till he shine all over with pure civic pride. cheyne have meet him for five minute a few day before and between the two there be entire understand. 
well mr. cheyne and what d you think of our city. yes madam you can sit anywhere you please. you have this kind of thing out west i presume. 
yes but we aren t a old a you. 
that s so of course. you ought to have be at the exercise when we celebrate our two hundred and fiftieth birthday. i tell you mr. cheyne the old city do herself credit. 
so i hear. it pay too. what s the matter with the town that it don t have a first class hotel though. 
right over there to the leave pedro. heap o room for you and your crowd. why that s what i tell em all the time mr. cheyne. there s big money in it but i presume that don t affect you any. what we want be. 
a heavy hand fell on his broadcloth shoulder and the flush skipper of a portland coal and ice coaster spin him half round. what in thunder do you fellow mean by clappin the law on the town when all decent men be at sea this way. heh. town s dry s a bone an smell a sight bad sence i quit. might ha leave u one saloon for soft drink anyway. 
don t seem to have hinder your nourishment this morning carsen. i ll go into the politics of it late. sit down by the door and think over your argument till i come back. 
what good s argument to me. in miquelon champagne s eighteen dollar a case and the skipper lurch into his seat a an organ prelude silence him. 
our new organ say the official proudly to cheyne. cost u four thousand dollar too. we ll have to get back to high licence next year to pay for it. i wasn t go to let the minister have all the religion at their convention. those be some of our orphan stand up to sing. my wife teach em. see you again late mr. cheyne. i m want on the platform. 
high clear and true child s voice bore down the last noise of those settle into their place. 
o all ye work of the lord bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him for ever. 
the woman throughout the hall lean forward to look a the reiterate cadence fill the air. mr. cheyne with some others begin to breathe short. she have hardly imagine there be so many widow in the world. and instinctively search for harvey. he have find the we re here at the back of the audience and be stand a by right between dan and disko. uncle salter return the night before with penn from pamlico sound receive him suspiciously. 
hain t your folk go yet. he grunt. what be you doin here young feller. 
o ye sea and flood bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him for ever. 
hain t he good right. say dan. he s bin there same a the rest of u. 
not in them clothe salter snarl. 
shut your head salter say disko. your bile s go back on you. stay right where ye be harve. 
then up and speak the orator of the occasion another pillar of the municipality bid the world welcome to gloucester and incidentally point out wherein gloucester excel the rest of the world. then he turn to the sea wealth of the city and speak of the price that must be pay for the yearly harvest. they would hear late the name of their lose dead one hundred and seventeen of them. the widow star a little and look at one another here. gloucester could not boast any overwhelm mill or factory. her son work for such wage a the sea give. and they all know that neither george nor the bank be cow pasture. the utmost that folk ashore could accomplish be to help the widow and the orphan. and after a few general remark he take this opportunity of thank in the name of the city those who have so public spiritedly consent to participate in the exercise of the occasion. 
i jest despise the beggin piece in it growl disko. it don t give folk a fair notion of u. 
ef folk win t be fore hand an put by when they ve the chance return salter it stand in the nature o thing they hev to be sham. you take warnin by that young feller. rich endureth but for a season ef you scatter them araound on lugsuries. 
but to lose everything everything say penn. what can you do then. once i the watery blue eye star up and down a look for something to steady them once i read in a book i think of a boat where every one be run down except some one and he say to me. 
shuck. say salter cut in. you read a little le an take more int rust in your vittles and you ll come near earnin your keep penn. 
harvey jam among the fisherman felt a creepy crawly tingle thrill that begin in the back of his neck and end at his boot. he be cold too though it be a stifle day. 
that the actress from philadelphia. say disko troop scowl at the platform. you ve fix it about old man ireson hain t ye harve. ye know why naow. 
it be not ireson s ride that the woman deliver but some sort of poem about a fish port call brixham and a fleet of trawler beat in against storm by night while the woman make a guide fire at the head of the quay with everything they could lay hand on. 
they take the grandam s blanket who shiver and bid them go. they take the baby s cradle who could not say them no. 
whew. say dan peer over long jack s shoulder. that s great. must ha bin expensive though. 
grind hog case say the galway man. badly light port danny. 
and know not all the while if they be light a bonfire or only a funeral pile. 
the wonderful voice take hold of people by their heartstrings. and when she tell how the drench crew be fling ashore live and dead and they carry the body to the glare of the fire ask. child be this your father. or wife be this your man. you could hear hard breathe all over the bench. 
and when the boat of brixham go out to face the gale think of the love that travel like light upon their sail. 
there be very little applause when she finish. the woman be look for their handkerchief and many of the men star at the ceiling with shiny eye. 
h m say salter. that u d cost ye a dollar to hear at any theater maybe two. some folk i presoom can afford it. seem downright waste to me. naow how in jerusalem do cap bart edwardes strike adrift here. 
no keepin him under say an eastport man behind. he s a poet an he s baound to say his piece. come from daown aour way too. 
he do not say that captain b. edwardes have strive for five consecutive year to be allow to recite a piece of his own composition on gloucester memorial day. an amuse and exhaust committee have at last give him his desire. the simplicity and utter happiness of the old man a he stand up in his very best sunday clothe win the audience ere he open his mouth. they sit unmurmuring through seven and thirty hatchet make verse describe at full length the loss of the schooner joan hasken off the george in the gale of and when he come to an end they shout with one kindly throat. 
a far sight boston reporter slide away for a full copy of the epic and an interview with the author. so that earth have nothing more to offer captain bart edwardes ex whaler shipwright master fisherman and poet in the seventy third year of his age. 
naow i call that sensible say an eastport man. i ve bin over that graound with his writin jest a he read it in my two hand and i can testify that he s get it all in. 
if dan here couldn t do good n that with one hand before breakfast he ought to be switch say salter uphold the honour of massachusetts on general principle. not but what i m free to own he s considerable litt ery fer maine. still. 
guess uncle salter s goin to die this trip. fust compliment he s ever pay me dan snigger. what s wrong with you harve. you act all quiet and you look greenish. feelin sick. 
don t know what s the matter with me harvey reply. seem if my inside be too big for my outside. i m all crowd up and shivery. 
dispepsy. pshaw too bad. we ll wait for the readin an then we ll quit an catch the tide. 
the widow they be nearly all of that season s make brace themselves rigidly like people go to be shoot in cold blood for they know what be come. the summer boarder girl in pink and blue shirt waist stop titter over captain edwardes s wonderful poem and look back to see why all be silent. the fisherman press forward a that town official who have talk with cheyne bob up on the platform and begin to read the year s list of loss divide them into month. last september s casualty be mostly single men and stranger but his voice ring very loud in the stillness of the hall. 
september th. schooner florrie anderson lose with all aboard off the george. reuben pitman master single main street city. emil olsen single hammond street city. denmark. oscar stanberg single sweden. carl stanberg single main street city. pedro suppose madeira single keene s board house city. joseph welsh alias joseph wright st. john s newfoundland. 
no augusty maine a voice cry from the body of the hall. 
he ship from st. john s say the reader look to see. 
i know it. he belong in augusty. my nevvy. 
the reader make a pencil correction on the margin of the list and resume. 
same schooner charlie ritchie liverpool nova scotia single. albert may rogers street city single. september th. orvin dollard marry drown in dory off eastern point. 
that shoot go home for one of the widow flinch where she sit clasp and unclasp her hand. mr. cheyne who have be listen with wide open eye throw up her head and choke. dan s mother a few seat to the right saw and hear and quickly move to her side. the read go on. by the time they reach the january and february wreck the shot be fall thick and fast and the widow draw breath between their teeth. 
february th. schooner harry randolph dismasted on the way home from newfoundland. asa musie marry main street city lose overboard. 
february d. schooner gilbert hope. go astray in dory robert beavon marry native of pubnico nova scotia. 
but his wife be in the hall. they hear a low cry a though a little animal have be hit. it be stifle at once and a girl stagger out of the hail. she have be hop against hope for month because some who have go adrift in dory have be miraculously pick up by deep sea sail ship. now she have her certainty and harvey could see the policeman on the sidewalk hail a hack for her. it s fifty cent to the depot the driver begin but the policeman hold up his hand but i m goin there anyway. jump right in. look at here alf. you don t pull me next time my lamp ain t light. see. 
the side door close on the patch of bright sunshine and harvey s eye turn again to the reader and his endless list. 
april th. schooner mamie douglas lose on the bank with all hand. edward canton master marry city. d. hawkins alias williams marry shelbourne nova scotia. g. w. clay colour marry city. 
and so on and so on. great lump be rise in harvey s throat and his stomach remind him of the day when he fell from the liner. 
may th. schooner we re here [the blood tingle all over him]. otto svendson single city lose overboard. 
once more a low tear cry from somewhere at the back of the hall. 
she shouldn t ha come. she shouldn t ha come say long jack with a cluck of pity. don t scrowge harve grunt dan. harvey hear that much but the rest be all darkness spot with fiery wheel. disko lean forward and speak to his wife where she sit with one arm round mr. cheyne and the other hold down the snatch catch ring hand. 
lean your head daown right daown. she whisper. it ll go off in a minute. 
i ca an t. i do don t. oh let me mr. cheyne do not at all know what she say. 
you must mr. troop repeat. your boy s jest faint dead away. they do that some when they re gettin their growth. wish to tend to him. we can git aout this side. quite quiet. you come right along with me. psha my dear we re both woman i guess. we must tend to aour men folk. come. 
the we re here promptly go through the crowd a a body guard and it be a very white and shake harvey that they prop up on a bench in an anteroom. 
favour his ma be mr. troop s only comment a the mother bend over her boy. 
how d you suppose he could ever stand it. she cry indignantly to cheyne who have say nothing at all. it be horrible horrible. we shouldn t have come. it s wrong and wicked. it it isn t right. why why couldn t they put these thing in the paper where they belong. be you good darling. 
that make harvey very properly ashamed. oh i m all right i guess he say struggle to his foot with a break giggle. must ha be something i eat for breakfast. 
coffee perhaps say cheyne whose face be all in hard line a though it have be cut out of bronze. we win t go back again. 
guess twould be baout s well to git daown to the wharf say disko. it s close in along with them dago an the fresh air will fresh mr. cheyne up. 
harvey announce that he never felt good in his life. but it be not till he saw the we re here fresh from the lumper s hand at wouverman s wharf that he lose his all overish feeling in a queer mixture of pride and sorrowfulness. other people summer boarder and such like play about in cat boat or look at the sea from pier head. but he understand thing from the inside more thing than he could begin to think about. none the le he could have sit down and howl because the little schooner be go off. mr. cheyne simply cry and cry every step of the way and say most extraordinary thing to mr. troop who baby her till dan who have not be baby since he be six whistle aloud. 
and so the old crowd harvey felt like the most ancient of mariner drop into the old schooner among the batter dory while harvey slip the stern fast from the pier head and they slide her along the wharf side with their hand. every one want to say so much that no one say anything in particular. harvey bid dan take care of uncle salter s sea boot and penn s dory anchor and long jack entreat harvey to remember his lesson in seamanship. but the joke fell flat in the presence of the two woman and it be hard to be funny with green harbour water widen between good friend. 
up jib and fore l. shout disko get to the wheel a the wind take her. see you late harve. dunno but i come near thinkin a heap o you an your folk. 
then she glide beyond ear shoot and they sit down to watch her up the harbour. and still mr. cheyne weep. 
psha my dear say mr. troop. we re both woman i guess. like s not it ll ease your heart to hev your cry aout. god he know it never do me a mite o good. but then he know i ve have something to cry fer. 
now it be a few year late and upon the other edge of america that a young man come through the clammy sea fog up a windy street which be flank with most expensive house build of wood to imitate stone. to him a he be stand by a hammer iron gate enter on horseback and the horse would have be cheap at a thousand dollar another young man. and this be what they say. 
hello dan. 
hello harve. 
what s the best with you. 
well i m so s to be that kind o animal call second mate this trip. ain t you most through with that triple invoice college o yours. 
get that way. i tell you the leland stanford junior isn t a circumstance to the old we re here. but i m come into the business for keep next fall. 
meanin aour packet. 
nothing else. you just wait till i get my knife into you dan. i m go to make the old line lie down and cry when i take hold. 
i ll resk it say dan with a brotherly grin a harvey dismount and ask whether he be come in. 
that s what i take the cable fer. but say be the doctor anywheres araound. i ll draown that crazy nigger some day his one cuss joke an all. 
there be a low triumphant chuckle a the ex cook of the we re here come out of the fog to take the horse s bridle. he allow no one but himself to attend to any of harvey s want. 
thick a the bank ain t it doctor. say dan propitiatingly. 
but the coal black celt with the second sight do not see fit to reply till he have tap dan on the shoulder and for the twentieth time croak the old old prophecy in his ear. 
master man. man master say he. you remember dan troop what i say. on the we re here. 
well i win t go so far a to deny that it do look like it a thing stand at present say dan. she be an able packet and one way an another i owe her a heap her and dad. 
me too quoth harvey cheyne. 
