book by rudyard kipling. 
action and reaction light that fail the brushwood boy the many invention captain courageous naulahka the. with wolcott collect verse balestier. day s work the plain tale from the hill departmental ditty and puck of pook s hill ballad and barrack room ballad reward and fairy diversity of creature a sea warfare eye of asia the seven sea the five nation the soldier story france at war soldier three the story from sea to sea of the gadsbys and in history of england a black and white jungle book the song of the english a jungle book second song from book just so song book stalky & co. just so story they kim traffic and discovery kipling story and poem under the deodar the every child should know phantom rickshaw and kipling birthday book the wee willie winkie life s handicap. be story with the night mail of mine own people. 
the eye of asia. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
garden city new york doubleday page & company. 
copyright by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
page. 
a retire gentleman. 
the fume of the heart. 
the private account. 
a trooper of horse. 
a retire gentleman. 
from bishen singh saktawut subedar major th indurgurh [todd s] rajput now at lyndhurst hampshire england this letter be send to madhu singh sawant risaldar major [retired] th [dublana] horse on his fief which he hold under the thakore sahib of pech at bukani by the river near chiturkaira kotah rajputana write in the fifth month of the year english count. 
have experience five month of this war i become infect with fever and a strong coldness of the stomach [rupture]. the doctor order me out of it altogether. they have also cut me with knife for a wind on my leg. it be now heal but the strength be go and it be very frighten of the grind. i have be in many hospital for a long time. at this present i be live in a hospital for indian troop in a forest reservation call new which be establish by a king s order in age past. there be no order for my return to india. i do not desire it. my regiment ha now go out of france to egypt or africa. my officer sahib be for the most part dead or in hospital. during a railway journey when two people sit side by side for two hour one feel the absence of the other when he alight. how great then be my anguish at be sever from my regiment after thirty three year. now however i be finish. if i return to india i cannot drill the new men between my two crutch. i should subsist in my village on my wind pension among old and young who have never see war. here i have great consideration. though i be useless they be patient with me. 
have knowledge of the english tongue i be sometimes invite to interpret between those in the hospital for the indian troop and visitor of high position. i advance eminent visitor such a relative of king and prince into the presence of the colonel doctor sahib. i enjoy a small room apart from the hospital ward. i have a servant. the colonel doctor sahib examine my body at certain time. i be forbid to stoop even for my crutch. they be instantly restore to me by orderly and my friend among the english. i come and go at my pleasure where i will and my presence be solicit by the honourable. 
you say i make a mistake to join the war at the end of my service. i have endure five month of it. come you out and endure two and a half. you be three year young than i. why do you sit at home and drill new men. remember. 
the brahman who steal the widow who wear ornament the rajput who avoid the battle be only fit for crow meat. 
you write me that this be a war for young men. the old be not entirely useless. the badshah [the king] himself give me the medal for fetch in my captain from out of the wire upon my back. that work cause me the coldness in my stomach. old men should not do coolie work. your cavalry be useless in france. infantry can fight in this war not cavalry. it be a impossible for u to get out of our trench and exterminate the enemy a it be for the enemy to attack u. doubtless the cavalry brigade will show what they be make of in egypt or persia. this business in france be all artillery work and mine. the blow up of the chitoree bastion when arjoon go to heaven wave his sword a the song say would not be notice in the noise of this war. 
the nature of the enemy be to go to earth and flood u with artillery of large weight. when we be in the trench it be a burden. when we rest in the village we find great ease. a to our food it be like a bunnia s marriage feast. everything give nothing count. some of u especially among your cavalry grow so fat that they be compel to wrestle to keep thin. this be because there be no march. 
the nature of the enemy be to commit shame upon woman and child and to defile the shrine of his own faith with his own dung. it be do by him a a drill. we believe till then they be some sort of caste apart from the rest. we do not know they be outcaste. now it be establish by the evidence of our sens. they attack on all four run like ape. they be specially careful for their face. when death be certain to them they offer gift and repeat the number of their child. they be very good single shot from cover. 
it be the nature of the enemy to shower seduction from out of their air machine on our troop in the line. they promise such a would desert that they would become rajah among them. some of the men go over to see if this be true. no report come back. in this way we clean out five bad character from our company exactly a it use to be in the little war on the border. may the enemy be please with them. no man of any caste disgrace our regiment. 
the nature of the enemy in this war be like the nat [juggler] who be compel to climb a pole for his belly s sake. if he doe not climb he starve. if he stop he fall down. this be my think concern the enemy. 
now that our troop have go out of france the war be entirely between the enemy and the english etc. etc. both side accordingly increase the number and the size of their gun. the new wound officer in the english hospital say that the battle of even yesterday be not to be compare with the battle of to day. tell this to those who have return and who boast. only fool will desire more war when this war be end. their reward will be an instant extinction on account of the innumerable quantity of arm munition etc. etc. which will be leave in the hand of the expert. those who make war henceforward will be a small jackal fight beneath the foot of elephant. this government ha abundance of material and fresh strength be add every hour. let there be no mistake. the foolish have be greatly deceive in these matter by the nature of the english which be in the high degree deceptive. everything be do and speak upside down in this country of the english. he who ha a thousand say. it be but a scant hundred. the possessor of palace say. it be a hut and the rest in proportion. their boast be not to boast. their greatness be to make themselves very small. they draw a curtain in front of all they do. it be a difficult to look upon the naked face of their achievement a in our country upon the face of woman. 
it be not true there be no caste in england. the mark of the high caste such a ul or baharun [earl or baron] be that they can perform any office such a handle the dead wound blood etc. without loss of caste. the maharanee of the nurse in the english hospital which be near our hospital be by caste baharanee [baroness]. i resort thither daily for society and enlightenment on the habit of this people. the high caste be forbid to show curiosity appetite or fear in public place. in this respect they resemble troop on parade. their male child be beat from their ninth year to their seventeenth year by men with stick. their woman be count equal with their men. it be reckon a disgraceful for a baharanee to show fear when light be extinguish in the hospital on account of bomb drop air ship a for an ul to avoid battle. they do not blacken each other s face by loud abuse but by jest speak in a small voice. 
the nature of the young men of high caste be a the nature of u rajput. they do not use opium but they delight in horse and sport and woman and be perpetually in debt to the moneylender. they shoot partridge and they be force to ride fox because there be no wild pig here. they know nothing of hawk or quail fight but they gamble up to the hilt on all occasion and bear loss laugh. their card play be call baraich [bridge. ]. they belittle their own and the achievement of their friend so long a that friend face them. in his absence they extol his deed. they be of cheerful countenance. when they jest they respect honour. it be so also with their woman. the nurse in the hospital of my baharanee where i resort for society jest with me a daughter with a father. they say that they will be stricken with grief if i return to india. they call me dada which be father also in their tongue. though i be utterly useless they be unwearied of me. they themselves hasten to restore me my crutch when i let them fall. none of these woman lament their dead openly. the eldest son of my baharanee at the english hospital where i be make welcome be slay in battle. the next morning after the news my baharanee let loose the plate piano [turned on the gramophones] for the delectation of the wound. it come into my mind to suggest to you that our woman be unable to stand by themselves. 
when the badshah command me to his palace to receive the medal i saw all the wonder and entertainment of the city of london. there be neither trouble nor expense. my baharanee give order i should inhabit her own house in that city. it be in reality a palace fill with carpet gild furniture marble mirror silk velvet carving etc. etc. hot water run in silver pipe to my very bedside. the perfume bath be perpetually renew. when it rain daily i walk in a glass pavilion fill with scent flower. i inhabit here ten day. though i be utterly useless they be unwearied of me. a companion be find me. he be a risaldar of dekkani horse a man of family wound in the arm. we two receive our medal together. we saw the king s palace and the custom of the guard mount in the morning daily. their drill be like stone wall but the nature of the english music be without any mean. we two saw the great temple seyn pol [st. paul s. ] where their dead be. it be a a country enclose in a house. my companion ascend to the very roof top and saw all the city. we be nothing beside these people. we two also saw the bird garden [zoological gardens] where they studiously preserve all sort of wild animal even down to jackal and green parrot. it be the nature of the english to consider all create being a equal. the badshah himself wear khaki. his son the shahzada be a young man who inhabit the trench except when he be forbid. he be a keen son of the sword. 
it be true that train run underneath the city in all direction. we descend into the earth upon a fall platform [lift] and travel. the stop place be a close a bead on a thread. the door of the carriage be guard with gate that strike out sideways like cobra. each sitter be allow a space upon a divan of yellow canework. when the divan be full the surplus hang from the roof by leather. though our carriage be full place be make for u. at the end of our journey the train be halt beyond it lawful time that we might come forth at ease. the train be full of english soldier. all caste of the english be now soldier. they be become like u rajput a many people so many soldier. 
we two saw house shop carriage and crowd till our soul be break. the succeed day be a the first without intermission. we beg at last to be excuse from the sight of the multitude and the height of the house. 
we two agree that understand be most needful in this present age. we in india must get education before all thing. hereafter we rajput must seriously consider our arrangement in all respect in our house a well a in our field etc. etc. otherwise we become nothing. we have be deceive by the nature of the english. they have not at any time show u anything of their possession or their performance. we be not even child beside them. they have deal with u a though they be themselves child talk chotee boli [little talk]. in this manner the ill inform have be mislead. nothing be know in india of the great strength of this people. make that perfectly clear to all fool. why should we who serve the government have the blood of the misinform on our head when they behave foolishly. this people have all the strength. there be no reason except the nature of the english that anything in their dominion should stand up which ha be order to lie down. it be only their soft nature which save evil from destruction. a the say be we think it be only an arm horseman. behold it be an elephant bear a tower. 
it be in my mind that the glory of u rajput ha become diminish since the old day. in the old day our princess charge in battle beside their men and the name of the clan be great. then all rajput be brother and sister. how ha this come about. what man of u now rely upon the advice of his womenkind in any matter outside. in this country and in france the woman understand perfectly what be needful in the day of trial. they say to their men. add to the renown of your race. we will attend to the rest through the excellent education which this just government ha cause u to receive. thus the men s heart be lighten when they go to the war. they confide securely in their well educate woman. how be it with our horse. shape and size from the sire. temper and virtue from the dam. if the mare endure thirst the colt can run without water. man s nature also draw from the spindle side. why have we allow forgetfulness to impair our memory. this be well know in the old day. in this country arrangement for wash clothe exist in almost every house such a tub board and iron and there be a machine to squeeze water out of the wash clothe. they do not conceal their astonishment at our method. our woman should be teach. only by knowledge be anything achieve. otherwise we be a child run about naked under the foot of grow men and woman. 
see what our woman have already accomplish by education. the thakore sahib of philawat be refuse leave from the government to go to the war on account of his youth. yet his sister who wed the rana of haliana have prepare a contingent of infantry out of her own dower village. they be set down in the roll of the prince contingent a stretcher bearer. they be arm men out of the desert. she send a telegram to her brother commission him to go with them a captain of stretcher bearer. he be a son of the sword for seventy generation. thus cleverly he receive permission from the government to go. when they reach france he steal them out of the camp every one of his sister s men and join himself to the rajah of kandesur s contingent. those two boy together make their name bright in the trench. the philawat boy be hit twice and come to hospital here. the government send him a seal letter by messenger where he lay. he have great fear of it because what he and kandesur have do be without order. he expect a reprimand from the government and also from his uncle because of the succession. but the letter be an announcement of decoration from the shahzada himself and when he have read it the child hide his face beneath the sheet and weep for joy. i saw and hear this from my very bed in the hospital. so his military cross and the rest be due to the maharanee of haliana his sister. before her marriage she attend instruction in england at the great school for maiden call ghatun [girton. ]. she go unveil among englishman lay hold upon her husband s right arm in public assembly in open daylight. and haliana be sunborn. [ ] consider it. consider it. 
[ ] the royal clan of the rajput derive their descent from the sun. 
do not be concern if i do not return. i have see all the report of all the arrangement make for burial etc. etc. in this country. they be entirely in accordance with our faith. my youth and old age have be give to the service of the government and if the government can be serve with the dust of my bone it be theirs now that my boy be dead in arabia i have also withdraw my petition to the government for a land grant. what use. the house be empty. 
man doe not remain in the world but his name remain. though jam and suliman be go their name be not lose. 
when that arrive my maharanee baharanee will despatch to you posh free par parshel posh [post free per parcel post] my cross that the badshah give me and a letter from my captain sahib s mother with whose brother i serve when i be a man. a for my debt it doe not trouble me in the least that the moneylender should be so trouble about them. but for the army and the police the people would have kill all moneylender. give my duty to the rana of pech for his line be my father s overlord from the first. he can hang up my sword beside my father s. 
do not be concern for whatever overtake me. i have sift the sand of france. now i sift those of england. here i be hold in the great kindness and honour imaginable by all whom i meet. though i be useless a a child yet they be unwearied of me. the nurse in my maharanee baharanee s hospital which be by day a home and a house to me minister to me a daughter to a father. they run after me and rebuke me if i do not wear a certain coat when it rain daily. i be like a die tree in a garden of flower. 
the fume of the heart. 
scene. pavilion and dome hospital brighton. 
what talk be this doctor sahib. this sahib say he will be my letter writer. just a though he be a bazar letter writer at home. what be the sahib s charge. two anna. too much. i give one. no. no. sahib. you shouldn t have come down so quickly. you ve forget we sikh always bargain. well. one anna be it. i will give a bond to pay it out of my wind pension when i get home. sit by the side of my bed. 
this be the trouble sahib. my brother who hold his land and work mine outside amritsar city be a fool. he be old than i. he ha do his service and get one wind out of it in what they use to call war that child s play in the tirah year ago. he think himself a soldier. but that be not his offence. he send me postcard sahib score of postcard whine about the drouth or the tax or the crop or our servant pilfer or some such trouble. he doesn t know what trouble mean. i want to tell him he be a fool. what. true. true. one can get money and land but never a new brother. but for all that he be a fool. be he a good farmer. sa heeb. if an amritsar sikh isn t a good farmer a hen doesn t know an egg. be he honest. a my own pet yoke of bullock. he be only a fool. my belly be on fire now with knowledge i never have before and i wish to impart it to him to the village elder to all people. yes that be true too. if i keep call him a fool he will not gain any knowledge. let me think it over on all side. aha. now that i have a bazar writer of my own i will write a book a very book of a letter to my fool of a brother. and now we will begin. take down my word from my lip to my foolish old farmer brother. 
* * * * *. 
you will have receive the notification of my wound which i take in franceville. now that i be good of my wound i have leisure to write with a long hand. here we have paper and ink at command. thus it be easy to let off the fume of our heart. send me all the news of all the crop and what be be do in our village. this poor parrot be always think of kashmir. 
a to my own concern the trench in which i sit be break by a bomb golee a large a our small grain chest. [_he ll go off and measure it at once. ] it drop out of the air. it burst the grind be open and replace upon seven of u. i and two others take wound. sweetmeat be not distribute in war time. god permit my soul to live by mean of the doctor strong medicine. i have inhabit six hospital before i come here to england. this hospital be like a temple. it be set in a garden beside the sea. we lie on iron cot beneath a dome of gold and colour and glitter glass work with pillar. [_you know that s true sahib. we can see it but d you think he ll believe. never. never. ] our food be cook for u accord to our creed sikh or brahmin or mussulman and all the rest when a man dy he be also bury accord to his creed. though he ha be a groom or a sweeper he be bury like some great land owner. do not let such matter trouble you henceforth. live or die all be do in accordance with the ordinance of our faith. some low caste men such a sweeper count upon the ignorance of the doctor here make a claim to be of reputable caste in order that they may get consideration. if a sweeper in this hospital say he be forbid by his caste to do certain thing he be believe. he be not beat. [_now why be that sahib. they ought to be beat for pretend to have caste and make a mock of the doctor. i should slipper them publicly but i m not the government. we will go on. ]. 
the english do not despise any sort of work. they be of many caste but they be all one kind in this. on account of my wound i have not yet go abroad to see english field or town. [_it be true i have be out twice in a motor carriage sahib but that go too quickly for a man to see shop let alone face. we will not tell him that. he doe not like motor car. ] the french in franceville work continually without rest. the french and the phlahamahnds [flamands] who be a caste of french be king among cultivator. a to cultivation [_now i pray sahib write quickly for i be a full of this matter a a buffalo of water_] their field be large than ours without any division and they do not waste anything except the width of the footpath. their land descend securely from father to son upon payment of tax to the government just a in civilize country. i have observe that they have their land always at their heart and in their mouth just a in civilize country. they do not grow more than one crop a year but this be recompense to them because their field do not need irrigation. the rain in franceville be always sure and abundant and in excess. they grow all that we grow such a pea onion garlic spinach bean cabbage and wheat. they do not grow small grain or millet and their only spice be mustard. they do not drink water but the juice of apple which they squeeze into barrel for that purpose. a full bottle be sell for two pice. they do not drink milk but there be abundance of it. it be all cow milk of which they make butter in a churn which be turn by a dog. [_now how shall we make my brother believe that. write it large. ] in franceville the dog be both courteous and industrious. they play with the cat they tend the sheep they churn the butter they draw a cart and guard it too. when a regiment meet a flock the dog of their own wisdom order the sheep to step to one side of the road. i have often see this. [_not one word of this will he or anyone in the village believe sahib. what can you expect. they have never even see lahore city. we will tell him what he can understand. ] plough and cart be draw by horse. ox be not use for these purpose in these village. the field work be wholly do by old men and woman and child who can all read and write. the young men be all at the war. the war come also to the people in the village but they do not regard the war because they be cultivator. i have a friend among the french an old man in the village where the regiment be establish who daily fill in the hole make in his field by the enemy s shell with dirt from a long handle spade. i beg him once to desist when we be together on this work but he say that idleness would cause him double work for the day follow. his grandchild a very small maiden graze a cow behind a wood where the shell fell and be kill in that manner. our regiment be tell the news and they take an account of it for she be often among them beg button from their uniform. she be small and full of laughter and she have learn a little of our tongue. [_yes. that be a very great shame sahib. she be the child of u all. we exact a payment but she be slay slay like a calf for no fault. a black shame. we will write about other matter. ]. 
a to cultivation there be no word for it excellence or for the industry of the cultivator. they esteem manure most highly. they have no need to burn cow dung for fuel. there be abundance of charcoal. thus not irrigate nor burn dung for fuel their wealth increase of itself. they build their house from ancient time round about mountainous dung heap upon which they throw all thing in season. it be a possession from father to son and increase come forth. owe to the number of army horse in certain place there arise very much horse dung. when it be excessive the officer cause a little straw to be light near the heap. the french and the phlahamahnds see the smoke assemble with cart cry. what waste be this. the officer reply. none will carry away this dung. therefore we burn it. all the cultivator then entreat for leave to carry it away in their cart be it only a much a two dog can draw. by this device horse line be clean. 
listen to one little thing. the woman and the girl cultivate a well a the men in all respect. [_that be a true tale sahib. we know but my brother know nothing except the road to market. ] they plough with two and four horse a great a hill. the woman of franceville also keep the account and the bill. they make one price for everything. no second price be to be obtain by any talk. they cannot be cheat over the value of one grain. yet of their own will they be generous beyond belief. when we come back from our work in the trench they arise at any hour and make u warm drink of hot coffee and milk and bread and butter. may god reward these lady a thousand time for their kindness. 
but do not throw everything upon god. i desire you will get me in amritsar city a carpet at the shop of davee sahai and chumba mall one yard in width and one yard and a half in length of good colour and quality to the value of forty rupee. the shop must send it with all charge pay to the address which i have have write in english character on the edge of this paper. she be the lady of the house in which i be billet in a village for three month. though she be advance in year and belong to a high family yet in the whole of those three month i never saw this old lady sit idle. her three son have go to the war. one have be kill. one be in hospital and a third at that time be in the trench. she do not weep nor wail at the death or the sickness but accept the dispensation. during the time i be in her house she minister to me to such an extent that i cannot adequately describe her kindness. of her own free will she wash my clothe arrange my bed and polish my boot daily for three month. she wash down my bedroom daily with hot water have herself heat it. each morning she prepare me a tray with bread butter milk and coffee. when we have to leave that village that old lady weep on my shoulder. it be strange that i have never see her weep for her dead son but she weep for me. moreover at part she would have have me take a fi farang [five franc] note for expense on the road. [_what a woman. what a woman. i have never believe such woman exist in this black age. ]. 
if there be any doubt of the quality or the colour of the carpet ask for an audience of the doctor linley sahib if he be still in amritsar. he know carpet. tell him all i have write concern this old lady may god keep her and her remain household. and he will advise. i do not know the doctor sahib but this he will overlook in war time. if the carpet be even fifty rupee i can securely pay out of the monies which our land owe me. she be an old lady. it must be soft to her foot and not incline to slide upon the wooden floor. she be well bear and educate. [_and now we will begin to enlighten him and the elder. ]. 
we must cause our child to be educate in the future. that be the opinion of all the regiment for by education even woman accomplish marvel like the woman of franceville. get the boy and girl teach to read and write well. here teach be by government order. the men go to the war daily. it be the woman who do all the work at home have be well teach in their childhood. we have only yoke one buffalo to the plough up till now. it be now time to yoke up the milch buffalo. tell the village elder this and exercise influence. [_write that down strongly sahib. we who have see franceville all know it be true. ]. 
but a to cultivation. the method in franceville be good. all tool be of iron. they do not break. a man keep the tool he need for his work and his repair in his house under his own hand. he ha not to go back to the village a mile away if anything break. we never think a these people do that all repair to tool and plough can be do on the very spot. all that be need when a strap break be that each ploughman should have an awl and a leather cutter to stitch the leather. how be it with u in our country. if leather break we farmer say that leather be unclean and we go back from the field into the village to the village cobbler that he may mend it. unclean. do not we handle that same thing with the leather on it after it ha be repair. do we not even drink water all day with the very hand that ha sweat into the leather. meantime we have surely lose an hour or two in come and go from the field. [_he will understand that. he chatter like a monkey when the men waste time. but the village cobbler will be very angry with me. ] the people of franceville be astonish to learn that all our land be full of dog which do no work not even to keep the cattle out of the till field. among the french both men and woman and little child occupy themselves with work at all time on the land. the child wear no jewelry but they be more beautiful than i can say. it be a country where the woman be not veil. their marriage be at their own choice and take place between their twentieth and twenty fifth year. they seldom quarrel or shout out. they do not pilfer from each other. they do not tell lie at all. when calamity overtake them there be no ceremonial of grief such a tear the hair or the like. they swallow it down and endure silently. doubtless this be the fruit of learn in youth. 
[_now we will have a word for our guru at home. he be a very holy man. write this carefully sahib. ] it be say that the french worship idol. i have speak of this with my old lady and her guru [priest]. it be not true in any way. there be certainly image in their shrine and deotas [local gods] to whom they present petition a we do in our home affair but the prayer of the heart go to the god himself. i have be assure this by the old priest. all the young priest be fight in the war. the french men uncover the head but do not take off the shoe at prayer. they do not speak of their religion to stranger and they do not go about to make convert. the old priest in the village where i be billet so long say that all road at such time a these return to god. [_our guru at home say that himself. so he cannot be surprise if there be others who think it. ] the old priest give me a little medal which he wish me to wear round my neck. such medal be reckon holy among the french. he be a very holy man and it avert the evil eye. the woman also carry holy bead to help keep count of their prayer. 
certain men of our regiment divide among themselves a many a they could pick up of the string of such bead that use to be carry by the small maiden whom the shell slew. it be find forty yard distant from the hand. it be that small maiden who beg u for our button and have no fear. the regiment make an account of it reckon one life of the enemy for each bead. they deposit the bead a a pledge with the regimental clerk. when a man of the guarantor become kill the number of his bead which remain unredeemed be add to the obligation of the other guarantor or they elect an inheritor of the debt in his place. [_he will understand that. it be all very correct and business like sahib. our pathan company arrange it. ] it be seven week before all her bead be redeem because the weather be bad and our gun be strong and the enemy do not stir abroad after dark. when all the account be clear the bead be take out of pawn and return to her grandfather with a certificate and he weep. 
this war be not a war. it be a world destroy battle. all that ha go before this war in this world till now ha be only boy throw colour powder at each other. no man could conceive it. what do you or the mohmunds or anyone who ha not be here know of war. when the ignorant in future speak of war i shall laugh even though they be my elder brother. consider what thing be do here and for what reason. 
a little before i take my wound i be on duty near an officer who work in wire and wood and earth to make trap for the enemy. he have acquire a tent of green cloth upon stick with a window of soft glass that could not be break. all covet the tent. it be three pace long and two wide. among the covetous be an officer of artillery in charge of a gun that shake mountain. it give out a shell of ten maund or more [eight hundred pounds]. but those who have never see even a rivulet cannot imagine the indus. he offer many rupee to purchase the tent. he would come at all hour increase his offer. he overwhelm the owner with talk about it. [_i hear them often sahib. ] at last and i hear this also that tent owner say to that artillery officer. i be weary with your importunity. destroy to day a certain house that i shall show you and i will give you the tent for a gift. otherwise have no more talk. he show him the roof of a certain white house which stand back three ko [six miles] in the enemy country a little underneath a hill with wood on each side. consider this measure three ko in your mind along the amritsar road. the gunner officer say. by god i accept this bargain. he issue order and estimate the distance. i saw him go back and forth a swiftly a a lover. then fire be deliver and at the fourth discharge the watcher through their glass saw the house spring high and spread abroad and lie upon it face. it be a a tooth take out by a barber. see this the gunner officer spring into the tent and look through the window and smile because the tent be now his. but the enemy do not understand the reason. there be a great gunfire all that night a well a many enemy regiment move about. the prisoner take afterwards tell u their commander be disturb at the fall of the house ascribe it to some great design on our part so that their men have no rest for a week. yet it be all do for a little green tent s sake. 
i tell you this that you may understand the mean of thing. this be a world where the very hill be turn upside down with the city upon them. he who come alive out of this business will forever after be a a giant. if anyone wish to see it let him come here or remain disappoint all his life. 
[_we will finish with affection and sweet word. after all a brother be a brother. ] a for myself why do you write to me so many complaint. be you fight in this war or i. you know the say. a soldier s life be for his family. his death be for his country. his discomfort be for himself alone. i join to fight when i be young. i have eat the government s salt till i be old. i be discharge my obligation. when all be at an end the memory of our part will be but a dream. 
i pray the guru to bring together those who be separate. 
god alone be true. everything else be but a shadow. 
[_that be poetry. oh and add this sahib. ]. 
let there be no delay about the carpet. she would not accept anything else. 
the private account. 
scene. three and a half mile across the border kohat way. time. the edge of sunset. single room in a stone build tower house reach by a ladder from the grind. an afghan woman wrap in a red cotton quilt squat on the floor trim a small kerosene lamp. her husband an elderly afghan with a purple dye beard lie on a native cot cover by a strip blue and white cloth. he be wound in the knee and hip. a government rifle lean against the cot. their son age twenty kneel beside him unfold a letter. a the mother place the light lamp in a recess in the wall the son pick up the rifle and push the half open door home with the butt. the wife pass her husband a fill pipe of tobacco blow on the charcoal ball in the bowl. 
son [_as he unfold letter_]. it be from france. his regiment be still there. 
father. what doe he say about the money. 
son [_reading_]. he say. i be make easy by the news that you be now receive my pay allotment regularly. you may depend upon it come every month henceforward. i have also send eleven rupee over and above the allotment. it be a gift towards the purchase of the machine need in your business. 
father [_drawing a cheap nickel plat revolver from his breast_]. it be a good machine and he be a good son. what else. 
son. he say. you tell me our enemy have kill my uncle and my brother beside wound our father. i be very far away and can give no help whatever. it be a matter for great regret. our enemy be now two life to the good against u in the account. we must take our revenge quickly. the responsibility i suppose be altogether on the head of my young brother. 
father. but i be still good for sit shot. 
mother [_soothingly_]. ah. but he mean to think over all the arrangement. wound men cannot think clearly till the fever be out of the wind. 
son [_reading_]. my young brother say he would enlist after me when the harvest be gather. that be now out of the question. tell him he must attend to the work in hand. that be true i cannot enlist now. tell him not to wander about after the people who do the actual kill. they will probably have take refuge on the government side of the border. that be true too. it be exactly what they do. even up the account from the near household of our enemy. this will force the murderer for their honour s sake to return and attend to their proper business when god will they can be add a a bonus. take our revenge quickly. 
father [_stroking beard_]. this be all wisdom. i have a man for a son. what else doe he say akbar. 
son. he say. i have a letter from kohat tell me that a certain man of a family that we know be come out here with a draft in order to settle with me for an account which he say i open. 
mother [_quickly_]. would that be gul shere khan about that peshawari girl. 
son. perhaps. but ahmed be not afraid. listen. he say. if that man or even his brother wish to come to france after me i shall be very please. if in fact anyone wish to kill me let them by all mean come out. i be here present in the field of battle. i have place my life on a tray. the people in our country who talk about kill be child. they have not see the reality of thing. we do not turn our head when forty be kill at a breath. men be swallow up or blow apart here a one divide meat. when we be in the trench there be no time to strike a blow on the private account. when we be at rest in the village one s lust for kill ha be satisfy. two men join u in the draft last month to look after a close friend of mine with whom they have a private account. they be great swash buckler at first. they even volunteer to go into the trench though it be not their turn of duty. they expect that their private account could be settle during some battle. since that turn of duty they have become quite meek. they have till then only see men kill by one and two half a mile separate them. this business be like kill fly on sugar. have no fear for me therefore no matter who join the regiment. it need a very fierce stomach to add anything to our government ration. 
mother. he write like a poet my son. that be wonderful write. 
father. all the young men write the same with regard to the war. it quite satisfy all desire. what else doe he say. 
son [_summarizing_]. he say that he be well feed and ha learn to drink the french coffee. he say there be two sort of french tobacco one yellow one blue. the blue he say be the best. they be name for the paper they be wrap in. he say that on no account must we send him any opium or drug because the punishment for drug be severe and the doctor be quick to discover. he desire to be send to him some strong hair dye of the sort that our father us. 
mother [_with a gesture_]. hair dye. he be a child. what s he be do. 
son. he say he wish to win favour from his native officer whose white hair be show and who ha no proper dye. he say he will repay the cost and that no charge be make for the parcel. it must be very strong henna dye. 
mother [_laughing_]. it shall be. i will make it myself. a start it give me to hear him ask for dye. they be not due for another twenty year. 
father [_fretfully_]. read it. read it all a it be write word for word. what else doe he say. 
son. he speak of the country of the french. listen. he say. this country be full of precious object such a grain plough and implement and sheep which lie about the field by day with none to guard them. the french be a virtuous people and do not steal from each other. if a man merely approach towards anything there be eye watch him. to take one chicken be to loosen the tongue of fifty old woman. i be warn on join that the testimony of one such would outweigh the testimony of six honourable pathan. it be true. money and valuable be therefore leave openly in house. none dare even to look at them with a covetous eye. i have see two hundred rupee worth of clothe hang up on a nail. none know the owner yet it remain till her return. 
mother. that be the country for me. dress worth two hundred rupee hang on nail. princess all they must be. 
son [_continuing_]. listen to these fresh marvel. he say. we reside in brick house with paint wall of flower and bird. we sit upon chair cover with silk. we sleep on high bed that cost a hundred rupee each. there be glass in all the door and window. the abundance of iron and brass pottery and copper kitchen utensil be not to be estimate. every house be a palace of entertainment fill with clock lamp candlestick gilding and image. 
father. what a country. what a country. how much will he be able to bring back of it all. 
son. he say. the inhabitant defend their possession to the uttermost even down to the value of half a chicken or a sheep s kidney. they do not keep their money in their house but send it away on loan. their rate of interest be very low. they talk among themselves of loan and pledge and the gain of money just a we do. we indian troop be esteem and honour by all by the child specially. these child wear no jewelry. therefore there be no murder commit for the sake of ornament except by the enemy. these child resemble small moon. they make mud figure in their play of men and horse. he who can add figure of ox elephant and palanquin be highly praise. do you remember when i use to make them. 
mother. do i remember. be i a block of wood or an old churn. go on akbar. what of my child. 
son. he say. when the child be not in the school they be at work in the field from their early year. they soon lose all fear of u soldier and drill u up and down the street of the village. the small salute on all occasion. they suffer little from sickness. the old woman here be skilful in medicine. they dry the leaf of tree and give them for a drink against disease. one old woman give me an herb to chew for a worm in my tooth [toothache] which cure me in an hour. 
mother. god reward that woman. i wonder what she use. 
son. he say. she be my french mother. 
mother. what t. how many mother ha a man. but god reward her none the le. it must have be that old double tooth at the back on the leave low side for i remember. 
father. let it wait. it be cure now. what else doe he write. 
son. he write make excuse for not have write. he say. i have be so occupy and send from one place to another that on several occasion i have miss the post. i know you must have experience anxiety. but do not be displease. let my mother remember that i can only write when i have opportunity and the only remedy for helplessness be patience. 
father [_groaning_]. ah. he ha not yet be wound and he set himself up for a physician. 
mother. he speak wisely and beautifully. but what of his french mother burn her. 
son. he say. moreover this french mother of mine in france be displease with me if i do not write to her about my welfare. my mother like you my french mother doe all she can for my welfare. i cannot write sufficiently in praise of what she doe for me. when i be in the village behind the trench if on any day by reason of duty i do not return till even she herself would come in search of me and lead me back to the house. 
mother. aha. she know. i wish i could have catch him by the other ear. 
son. he say. and when i be send away on duty to another village and so could not find time to write either to you or to her she come close to the place where i be and where no one be permit to come and ask to see her boy. she bring with her a great parcel of thing for me to eat. what more be i to say for the concern she ha for my welfare. 
mother. fool all old woman be. may god reward that kafir woman for her kindness and her child after her. a though any order could keep out a mother. doe he say what she resemble in the face. 
son. no. he go on to speak more about the custom of the french. he say. the new men who join u come believe they be in the country of the rakshas [demons]. they be tell this by the ignorant on their departure. it be always cold here. many clothe be wear. the sun be absent. the wet be present. yet this france be a country create by allah and it people be manifestly a reasonable people with reason for all they do. the window of their house be well bar. the door be strong with lock of a sort i have never before try. their dog be faithful. they gather in and keep their kine and their ass and their hen under their hand at night. their cattle graze and return at the proper hour in charge of the child. they prune their fruit tree a carefully a our barber attend to men s nostril and ear. the old woman spin walk up and down. scissor needle thread and button be expose for sale on stall in a market. they carry hen by the foot. butcher sell dress portion of fowl and sheep ready to be cook. there be aniseed coriander and very good garlic. 
mother. but all this but all this be our very own way. 
son. he say so. he say. see these thing the new men be relieve in their mind. do not be anxious for me. these people precisely resemble all mankind. they be however idolators. they do not speak to any of u about their religion. their imam [priests] be old men of pious appearance live in poverty. they go about their religious office even while the shell fall. their god be call bandoo [bon dieu. ]. there be also the bibbee miriam [the virgin mary]. she be worship on account of the intelligence and capacity of the woman. 
father. hmm. ah. this travel about be bad for the young. woman be woman world over. what else akbar. 
son [_reading_]. there be holy woman in this country dress in black who wear horn of white cloth on their head. they too be without any sort of fear of death from the fall shell. i be acquaint with one such who often command me to carry vegetable from the market to the house which they inhabit. it be fill with the fatherless. she be very old very highborn and of irascible temper. all men call her mother. the colonel himself salute her. thus be all sort mingle in this country of france. 
mother. ha. well at least that holy woman be well bear but she be too free with her tongue. go on. 
son. he say. through my skill with my rifle i have be make a sharp shooter. a special place be give to me to shoot at the enemy singly. this be old work to me. this country be flat and open at the begin. in time it become all kandari kauderi cut up with trench sungars and bye way in the earth. their face show well behind the loop hole of their sungars. the distance be le than three hundred yard. great cunning be need. before they grow careful i account for nine in five day. it be more difficult by night. they then send up fireball which light all the grind. this be a good arrangement to reveal one s enemy but the expense would be too great for poor people. 
father. he think of everything everything. even of the terrible cost for u poor people. 
son [_reading_]. i attend the funeral of a certain french child. she be know to u all by the name of marri which be miriam. she would openly claim the regiment for her own regiment in the face of the colonel walk in the street. she be slay by a shell while graze cattle. what remain be carry upon a litter precisely after our custom. there be no hire mourner. all mourner walk slowly behind the litter the woman with the men. it be not their custom to scream or beat the breast. they recite all prayer above the grave itself for they reckon the burial grind to be holy. the prayer be recite by the imam of the village. the grave be not bricked and there be no recess. they do not know that the two angel visit the dead. they say at the end peace and mercy be on you. 
mother. one see a he write. he would have make a great priest this son of ours. so they pray over their dead out yonder those foreigner. 
father. even a kafir may pray but they be manifestly kafir or they would not pray in a grave yard. go on. 
son. when their prayer be do our havildar major who be orthodox recite the appropriate verse from the koran and cast a little mud into the grave. the imam of the village then embrace him. i do not know if this be the custom. the french weep very little. the french woman be small hand and small foot. they bear themselves in walk a though they be of birth and descent. they commune with themselves walk up and down. their lip move. this be on account of their dead. they be never abash or at a loss for word. they forget nothing. nothing either do they forgive. 
mother. good. very good. that be the right honour. 
son. listen. he say. each village keep a write account of all that the enemy ha do against it. if a life a life whether it be man or priest or hostage or woman or babe. every horn drive off. and every feather. all brick and tile break all thing burn and their price be write in the account. the shame and the insult be also write. there be no price set against them. 
father. this be without flaw. this be a people. there be never any price for shame offer. and they write it all down. marvellous. 
son. yes. he say. each village keep it own tally and all tally go to their government to be file. the whole of the country of france be in one great account against the enemy for the loss for the life and for the shame do. it ha be keep from the first. the woman keep it with the men. all french woman read write and cast account from youth. by this they be able to keep the great account against the enemy. i think that it be good that our girl should get school like this. then we shall have no more confusion in our account. it be only to add up the sum lose and the life. we should teach our girl. we be fool compare with these people. 
mother. but a pathani girl remember without all this book work. it be waste. who of any decent descent ever forget a blood debt. he must be sicken for illness to write thus. 
father. one should not forget. yet we depend on song and tale. it be more secure certainly it be more business like that a write account should be keep. since it be the men who must pay off the debt why should not the woman keep it. 
mother. they can keep tally on a stick or a distaff. it be unnecessary for a girl to scribble in book. they never come to good end. they end by. 
son. sometimes my mother sometimes. on the government side of the border woman be teach to read and write and cast account and. 
mother [_with intention_]. far be the day when such an one be bring to my house a a bride. for i say. 
father. no matter. what doe he say about those french woman. 
son. he say. they be not divide in opinion a to which of their enemy shall be seek after first. they say. let u even the account every day and night out of the near assembly of the enemy and when we have bring all the enemy into the right way of think we can demand the very people who do the shame and offence. in the meantime let it be any life. this be good counsel for u in our account oh my mother. 
father [_after a pause_]. true. true. it be good advice. let it be any life. be that all. 
son. that be all. he say. let it be any life. and i think so too. 
mother. _any life. even so. and then we can write to him quickly that we have take our revenge quickly. [_she reach for her husband s rifle which she pass over to her son who stretch his hand towards it with a glance at his father. ]. 
father. on your head akbar our account must lie at least till i be good. do you try to night. 
son. may be. i wish we have the high price illuminate fireball he speak of. [_half rise. ]. 
mother. wait a little. there be the call for the ishr [the even prayer]. 
muezzin [_in the village mosque without a the first star show_]. god be great. god be great. god be great. i bear witness etc. 
[_the family compose themselves for even prayer. ]. 
a trooper of horse. 
to the sister of the pension risaldar major abdul qadr khan at her own house behind the shrine of gulu shah near by the village of korake in the pasrur tehsil of the sialkot district in the province of the punjab. send out of the country of france on the rd of august by duffadar abdul rahman of the nd. pakpattan. cavalry late lambart s horse. 
mother. the news be that once only in five month i have not receive a letter from you. my thought be always with you. mother put your ear down and listen to me. do not fret. i will soon be with you again. imagine that i have merely go to lyallpur [the big recruit dpt in india]. think that i have be delay there by an officer s order or that i be not yet ready to come back. mother think of me always a though i be sit near by just a i imagine you always beside me. be of good cheer mother there be nothing that i have do which be hide from you. i tell you truly mother i will salute you again. do not grieve. i tell you confidently i shall bow before you again in salutation. it will be thus mother. i shall come in the dead of the night and knock at your door. then i will call loudly that you may wake and open the door to me. with great delight you will open the door and fold me to your breast my mother. then i will sit down beside you and tell you what ha happen to me good and evil. then have rest the night in comfort i will go out after the day ha come and i will salute all my brother at the mosque and in the village. then i will return and eat my bread in pleasure and happiness. you mother will say to me. shall i give you some ghi. [native butter]. i will say at first proudly like one who ha travel. no i want none. you will press me and i will softly push my plate over to you and you will fill it with ghi_ and i shall dip my cake in it with delight. believe me mother this homecoming will take place just a i have describe it. i see you before me always. it seem to me only yesterday that i bend to your foot when i make salutation and you put your hand upon my head. 
mother put your trust in god to guard my head. if my grave lie in france it can never be in the punjab though we try for a thousand year. if it be in the punjab then i shall certainly return to it to that very place. meantime mother consider what i have to eat. this be the true list. i eat daily sugar and ghi and flour salt meat red pepper some almond and date sweet of various kind a well a raisin and cardamom. in the morning i eat tea and white biscuit. an hour after halwa and puri [native dishes]. at noon tea and bread. at seven o clock of the even vegetable curry. at bedtime i drink milk. there be abundance of milk in this country. i be more comfortable here i swear it to you mother than any high officer in india. a for our clothe there be no account keep of it. you would cry out mother to see the thick cloth expend. so i beg you mother to take comfort concern your son. do not tear my heart by tell me your year. though we both live to be a old a elephant i be your son who will come ask for you a i say at your door. 
a to the risk of death who be free from it anywhere. certainly not in the punjab. i hear that all those religious mendicant at zilabad have proclaim a holy fair this summer in order that pious people may fee them and now have collect in thousand beside the river in hot weather they have spread cholera all over the district. there be trouble rag throughout all the world mother and yet these son of mean father must proclaim a beggar festival in order to add to it. there should be an order of the government to take all those lazy rascal out of india into france and put them in our front line that their body may be sieve for the machine gun. why cannot they blacken their face and lie in a corner with a crust of bread. it be certainly right to fee the family priest mother but when the idle assemble in thousand beg and make sickness and pollute the drink water punishment should be administer. 
very much sickness such a cholera and dysentery be cause by drink foul water. therefore it be best to have it boil mother no matter what be say. when clothe be wash in foul water sickness also spread. you will say mother that i be no long a trooper but a washer woman or an apothecary but i swear to you my mother what i have say be true. now i have two charge to deliver to you a to the household under you. i beg you my mother to give order that my son drink water which be boil at least from the begin of the hot weather till after the rain. that be one charge. the second be that when i be go down to the sea with the regiment from home the lady doctor sahiba in the civil line ask of our colonel s lady whether any of u desire that their household should take the charm against the small pox [be vaccinated]. i be then busy with my work and i make no reply. now let that doctor sahiba know that i desire by her favour that my son take the charm a soon a may be. i charge you mother upon his head that it be do soon. i beg you respectfully to take this charge upon you. 
oh my mother if i could now see you for but half of one watch in the night or at even prepare food. i remember the old day in my dreaming but when i awake there be the sleeper and there be the bed and it be more far off than delhi. but god will accomplish the meeting and surely arrange the return. 
mother before go out to the attack the other day i have a dream. i dream that a great snake appear in our trench in france and at the same time our pir murshid [our family priest] whose face i saw quite clearly appear with a stick and destroy it. well then mother our lot go in to the attack and return from it safely. those who be fat to be the victim of death be take and those who be fat to be wound be wound. and all our party return safely. at the same time the government secure a victory and the regiment obtain renown. it be our horse that go out over the trench mother and the german be alarm flee. we be forbid to pursue because of hide gun. this be trouble to u. we owe them much blood on our brother s account. tell the murshid my dream and ask him for a full interpretation. i have also see our murshid twice before in my dream. ask him why he come to me thus. i be not conscious of any wrong do and if it be a sign of favour to me then the shape should speak. 
i be quite aware how god reward the unwilling. he be all powerful. look at the case of that man of our own family who be order to the front with a high rank. he refuse promotion in order to stay behind and in a month s time he die of the plague in his own village. if he have go to the front his family would have receive the war pension. an atheist never achieve honour mother. he be always unsettle and ha no consolation. do we mussulmans think that the prophet will spend all his time in ask god to forgive our transgression. tell the pir murshid what i have write. 
mother put down your ear and listen to me in this matter my mother. there be one thing i wish to impress earnestly on you. you must know that among recruit for the regiment there be too few of our kind of mussulmans. they be send recruit from the punjab who be formerly labourer and common workman. the consequence of this be in the regiment that we mussulmans be completely outnumber by these low people and the promotion go accordingly. each of our troop my mother ha be divide into two. that be to say there be four troop to a squadron. we mussulmans should have at least two troop out of the four but owe to the lack of recruit we have not sufficient men of our faith to form more than one. now mother a it be in our father time he who supply the men get the promotion. therefore if our friend at home and especially our pir murshid would exert themselves to supply fifteen or twenty recruit i could approach my colonel sahib in regard to promotion. if my colonel receive my request favourably then you at home would only have the trouble to provide the men. but i do not think mother there would be any trouble if our pir murshid exert himself in the matter and if my father s brother also exert himself. a family be a family even [if it be] scatter to the end of the earth mother. my father s brother s name be still remember in the regiment on account of his long service and his great deed of old. tell him my mother that the men talk of him daily a though he have only resign yesterday. if he ride out among the village with his medal he will certainly fetch in many of our class. if it be fifty it would mean much more influence for me with my colonel. he be very greedy for our class of mahommedans. 
mother our pir murshid too be a very holy man. if he preach to them after harvest he would fetch in many and i should be promote and the pension go with the promotion. in a short time by god s assistance i might command a troop if sufficient recruit be attain by the exertion of my friend and well wishers. the honour of one be the honour of all. lay all this before the murshid and my uncle. 
none of the cavalry have yet do anything to compare with our regiment. this may be because of fate or that their nature be not equal to ours. there be great honour to be get out of a lance before long. the war ha become loosen and cavalry patrol be be send forward. we have drive mama lumra [a nickname for the enemy] several mile across country. he ha plant his foot again but it be not the same mama lumra. his arrogance be go. our gun turn the earth upside down upon him. he ha make himself house underground which be in all respect fortress with bed chair and light. our gun break these in. there be little to see because mama lumra be bury underneath. these day be altogether different from the day when all our army be here and mama lumra s gun overwhelm u by day and by night. now mama lumra eat his own stick. fight go on in the sky on earth and under earth. such a fight be rarely vouchsafe any one to behold. yet if one reflect upon god it be no more than rain on a roof. mother once i be report miss kill or believe take prisoner. i go with a patrol to a certain place beyond which we go forward to a place which have recently be take by the english infantry. suddenly the enemy s fire fell upon u and behind u like water. see we could not go back we lay down in the hole make by the shell. the enemy exert himself to the utmost but our gun have find him bombard him and he cease. in the even we retire out of our shell hole. we have to walk. it be fast time and we suffer from thirst. so our heart be relieve when we return to the regiment. we have all be report to divisional headquarter a lose. this false report be then cancel. the shell hole in the grind be the size of our goat pen and a deep a my height with the arm raise. they be more in number than can be count and of all colour. it be like small pox upon the grind. 
we have no small pox or disease here. our doctor be strict and refuse be burn by the sweeper. it be say there be no physician like fire. he leaf nothing to the fly. it be say that fly produce sickness especially when they be allow to sit on the nostril and the corner of the eye of the child or to fall into their milk pot. the young child of this country of france be beautiful and do not suffer from sickness. their woman do not die in childbed. this be on account of physician and midwife who abound in knowledge. it be a government order mother that none can establish a a midwife till she ha show her ability. these people be idolators. when there be a death which be not cause by war they instantly ascribe it to some fault in eat or drink or the conduct of life on the part of the dead. if one dy without manifest cause the physician at once mutilate the body to ascertain what evil be hide inside it. if anything be discover there be a criminal trial. thus the woman folk do not traffic in poison and wife have no suspicion one against the other. truly mother people be only defective on account of ignorance. learn and knowledge be the important thing. 
your letter come to me with every mail exactly a if we be at headquarter. this be accomplish solely by knowledge. there be hundred of woman behind our line who make clean and repair the dirty clothe of the troop. afterwards they be bake in very hot oven which utterly destroy the vermin and also it be say disease. we have too be issue iron helmet to protect the head against fall shot. it be ask of u all if any have an objection. the sikh report that they have not find any permission in their law to wear such thing. they therefore go uncover. it be report by our priest for u mahommedans that our law neither forbid nor enjoin. it be a thing indifferent. they be heavy than the pagri [turban] but they turn fall iron. doubtless it be allah s will that the life of his faithful should be prolong by these hat. the son of mother who go to foreign part be specially keep under his eye. 
we know very well how the world be make. to earn a live and bear trouble be the duty of man. if i send you a report that i have win promotion in the regiment do not forget to distribute alms to the extent of fifteen rupee and to fee the poor. 
mother put down your ear and listen to me. there be no danger whatever in box picture [snapshot photographs]. anyone submit to them be in all respect a he be before. nothing be take out of his spirit. i myself mother have submit myself to many box picture both mount and stand beside my horse. if at any time again the zenana doctor sahiba desire to make a box picture of him do not snatch the child away but send the picture to me. i cannot see him in my dream because at his age he change with each month. when i go away he be still on all four. now you tell me he stand up hold by the skirt. i wish to see a box picture of this very greatly indeed. i can read box picture now a perfectly a the french. when i be new to this country i could not understand their mean in the least. this be on account of knowledge which come by foreign travel and experience. mother this world abound in marvel beyond belief. we in india be but stone compare to these people. they do not litigate among themselves. they speak truth at first answer. their wedding be not [performed] till both side be at least eighteen and no man ha authority here to beat his wife. 
i have reside in billet with an old man and his wife who posse seven hen an as and a small field of onion. they collect dung from our horse line upon their back a very little at a time but continuously. they be without mean of maintenance yet they do not lay a finger upon any food except through invitation. they exhibit courtesy to each other in all thing. 
they call me sia [monsieur. ] which be mian [mahommedan title of respect] and also man barah [mon brave. ] which signify hero. i have speak to them many time of you my mother and they desire i send you their salutation. she call me to account strictly for my do each day. at even tide i be fetch in with the hen. my clothe be then inspect and repair when there be need. she turn me back and forth between her hand. if i exhibit impatience she hit me upon the side of the head and i say to my heart it be your hand. 
now this be the french language mother. 
zuur mononfahn. the morning salutation. 
wasi lakafeh. coffee be prepare. 
abil towah mononfahn. rise and go to parade. 
dormeh beeahn mon fiz nublieh pahleh bondihu. this be their dismissal at night invoke the bless of their god. they use a tasbih [rosary] in form like ours but of more bead. they recite prayer both sit and walk. have see my tasbih these old people become curious concern the faith. certainly they be idolators. i have see the image by the roadside which they worship. yet they be certainly not kafir who hide the truth and the mercy of allah be illimitable. they two send you their salutation thus. onvoyeh no zalutazioun zempresseh ar zmadam vot mair. it be their form of bless. 
she ha bear three son. two be already dead in this war and of the third no information since the spring time. there remain in the house the son of the eldest son. he be three year old. his name be pir which in their language also mean a holy man. he run barefoot in summer and wear only one garment. he eat all food and specially date. in this country it be not allow to give child pepper or cardamom. he ha learn to speak our tongue and bear a wooden sword which be make for him and a turban of our sort. when he be weary he repair to the centre of my bed which be forbid to him by his grandmother of whom he ha no fear. he fear nothing. my mother he be almost the same sort a my own. he send his salutation to him. he call him my brother who be in india. he also pray for him aloud before an idol which he be take to worship. on account of his fatness he cannot yet kneel long but fall over sideways. the idol be of bibbee miriam [the virgin mary] whom they in this country believe to watch over child. he ha also a small idol of his own above his bed which represent a certain saint call pir. he ride upon the as and say he will become a trooper. i take delight in his presence and his conversation. 
the child in this country be learn from their very birth. they go to the school even when the shell fall near by. they know all the country in the world and to read and write in their language and to cast account. even the girl of eight year can cast account and those that be marriageable have complete knowledge of cookery account and government and wash of clothe agriculture and the manufacture of garment and all other office. otherwise they be reckon infirm mind. each girl be give a dowry to which she add with her own hand. no man molest any woman here on any occasion. they come and go at their pleasure upon their business. there be one thing i should like to see mother. i should like to see all the men of india with all their wife bring to france in order to see the country and profit by their experience. here be no quarrel or contention and there be no dishonesty. all day long men do their work and the woman do theirs. compare with these people the people of india do not work at all but all day long be occupy with evil thought and our woman all day long they do nothing but quarrel. now i see this. the blame for this state of affair mother lie upon the men of india for if the men be to educate the woman they would give up quarrel. 
when a man go out into the world his understand be enlarge and he become proficient in different kind of work. all that be need be to show courage. at the present time one s bravery or one s cowardice be apparent. the opportunity for advancement come quickly. such opportunity will not occur again. 
a for any marriage propose [for me. ] when i return those thing can wait till i return. it be no gain to take into the house a child or a sickly one who through no fault of her own dy in bring forth. if there be any talk between our house and any other family upon this subject they should understand that i desire knowledge more than dowry. there be school where girl be educate by english lady. i be not of the sort to make a wed outside my clan or country but if i fight to keep mama lumra out of the punjab i will choose my wife out of the punjab. i desire nothing that be contrary to the faith mother but what be ample yesterday doe not cover even the palm of the hand to day. this be owe to the spread of enlightenment among all men come and go and observe matter which they have never before know to exist. 
in this country when one of them dy the tomb be mark and name and keep like a garden so that the others may go to mourn over her. nor do they believe a burial grind to be inhabit by evil spirit or ghoul. when i be upon a certain duty last month i lay three night in a grave yard. none trouble me even though the dead have be remove from their graf by the violence of shell burst. one be a woman of this country newly dead whom we reburied for the sake of the pity of allah and make the prayer. tell the pir murshid this and that i perform tayamummum [the short purification with sand or dust] afterwards. there be no time for the full purification. 
oh my mother my mother i be your son your son. and a i have say at the begin i will return to your arm from out of this country when god shall permit. 
the end. 
the country life press garden city n. y. 
