the day s work. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
the bridge builder a walk delegate the ship that find herself the tomb of his ancestor the devil and the deep sea william the conqueror. the maltese cat bread upon the water an error in the fourth dimension my sunday at home the brushwood boy. 
the bridge builder. 
the least that findlayson of the public work department expect be a c. i. e. he dream of a c. s. i. indeed his friend tell him that he deserve more. for three year he have endure heat and cold disappointment discomfort danger and disease with responsibility almost too heavy for one pair of shoulder. and day by day through that time the great kashi bridge over the gang have grow under his charge. now in le than three month if all go well his excellency the viceroy would open the bridge in state an archbishop would bless it and the first trainload of soldier would come over it and there would be speech. 
findlayson c. e. sit in his trolley on a construction line that run along one of the main revetment the huge stone face bank that flare away north and south for three mile on either side of the river and permit himself to think of the end. with it approach his work be one mile and three quarter fin length. a lattice girder bridge truss with the findlayson truss stand on seven and twenty brick pie. each one of those pier be twenty four foot in diameter cap with red agra stone and sink eighty foot below the shift sand of the gang bed. above them be a railway line fifteen foot broad. above that again a cart road of eighteen foot flank with footpath. at either end rise tower of red brick loopholed for musketry and pierce for big gun and the ramp of the road be be push forward to their haunch. the raw earth end be crawl and alive with hundred upon hundred of tiny ass climb out of the yawn borrow pit below with sackful of stuff. and the hot afternoon air be fill with the noise of hoof the rattle of the driver stick and the swish and roll down of the dirt. the river be very low and on the dazzle white sand between the three centre pier stand squat crib of railway sleeper fill within and daub without with mud to support the last of the girder a those be rivet up. in the little deep water leave by the drought an overhead crane travel to and fro along it spile pier jerk section of iron into place snort and back and grunt a an elephant grunt in the timber yard. riveter by the hundred swarm about the lattice side work and the iron roof of the railway line hang from invisible stag under the belly of the girder cluster round the throat of the pier and ride on the overhang of the footpath stanchion. their fire pot and the spurt of flame that answer each hammer stroke show no more than pale yellow in the sun s glare. east and west and north and south the construction train rattle and shriek up and down the embankment the pile truck of brown and white stone bang behind them till the side board be unpin and with a roar and a grumble a few thousand ton more material be fling out to hold the river in place. 
findlayson c. e. turn on his trolley and look over the face of the country that he have change for seven mile around. look back on the hum village of five thousand workman. up stream and down along the vista of spur and sand. across the river to the far pier lessen in the haze. overhead to the guard tower and only he know how strong those be and with a sigh of contentment saw that his work be good. there stand his bridge before him in the sunlight lack only a few week work on the girder of the three middle pier his bridge raw and ugly a original sin but pukka permanent to endure when all memory of the builder yea even of the splendid findlayson truss have perish. practically the thing be do. 
hitchcock his assistant canter along the line on a little switch tail kabuli pony who through long practice could have trot securely over a trestle and nod to his chief. 
all but say he with a smile. 
i ve be think about it the senior answer. not half a bad job for two men be it. 
one and a half. gad what a cooper s hill cub i be when i come on the work. hitchcock felt very old in the crowd experience of the past three year that have teach him power and responsibility. 
you be rather a colt say findlayson. i wonder how you ll like go back to office work when this job s over. 
i shall hate it. say the young man and a he go on his eye follow findlayson s and he mutter isn t it damn good. 
i think we ll go up the service together findlayson say to himself. you re too good a youngster to waste on another man. cub thou wart. assistant thou art. personal assistant and at simla thou shalt be if any credit come to me out of the business. 
indeed. the burden of the work have fall altogether on findlayson and his assistant the young man whom he have choose because of his rawness to break to his own need. there be labour contractor by the half hundred fitter and riveter european borrow from the railway workshop with perhaps twenty white and half caste subordinate to direct under direction the bevy of workman but none know good than these two who trust each other how the underling be not to be trust. they have be try many time in sudden crisis by slip of boom by break of tackle failure of crane and the wrath of the river but no stress have bring to light any man among men whom findlayson and hitchcock would have honour by work a remorselessly a they work themselves. findlayson think it over from the begin. the month of office work destroy at a blow when the government of india at the last moment add two foot to the width of the bridge under the impression that bridge be cut out of paper and so bring to ruin at least half an acre of calculation and hitchcock new to disappointment bury his head in his arm and weep. the heart break delay over the fill of the contract in england. the futile correspondence hint at great wealth of commission if one only one rather doubtful consignment be pass. the war that follow the refusal. the careful polite obstruction at the other end that follow the war till young hitchcock put one month s leave to another month and borrow ten day from findlayson spend his poor little saving of a year in a wild dash to london and there a his own tongue assert and the late consignment prove put the fear of god into a man so great that he fear only parliament and say so till hitchcock work with him across his own dinner table and he fear the kashi bridge and all who speak in it name. then there be the cholera that come in the night to the village by the bridge work. and after the cholera smite the smallpox. the fever they have always with them. hitchcock have be appoint a magistrate of the third class with whip power for the good government of the community and findlayson watch him wield his power temperately learn what to overlook and what to look after. it be a long long reverie and it cover storm sudden freshet death in every manner and shape violent and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that know it should be busy on other thing. drought sanitation finance. birth wed burial and riot in the village of twenty war caste. argument expostulation persuasion and the blank despair that a man go to bed upon thankful that his rifle be all in piece in the gun case. behind everything rise the black frame of the kashi bridge plate by plate girder by girder span by span and each pier of it recall hitchcock the all round man who have stand by his chief without fail from the very first to this last. 
so the bridge be two men s work unless one count peroo a peroo certainly count himself. he be a lascar a kharva from bulsar familiar with every port between rockhampton and london who have rise to the rank of sarang on the british india boat but weary of routine muster and clean clothe have throw up the service and go inland where men of his calibre be sure of employment. for his knowledge of tackle and the handle of heavy weight peroo be worth almost any price he might have choose to put upon his service. but custom decree the wage of the overhead men and peroo be not within many silver piece of his proper value. neither run water nor extreme height make him afraid. and a an ex serang he know how to hold authority. no piece of iron be so big or so badly place that peroo could not devise a tackle to lift it a loose end sag arrangement rig with a scandalous amount of talk but perfectly equal to the work in hand. it be peroo who have save the girder of number seven pier from destruction when the new wire rope jam in the eye of the crane and the huge plate tilt in it sling threaten to slide out sideways. then the native workman lose their head with great shouting and hitchcock s right arm be break by a fall t plate and he button it up in his coat and swoon and come to and direct for four hour till peroo from the top of the crane report all s well and the plate swing home. there be no one like peroo serang to lash and guy and hold to control the donkey engine to hoist a fall locomotive craftily out of the borrow pit into which it have tumble. to strip and dive if need be to see how the concrete block round the pier stand the scour of mother gunga or to adventure up stream on a monsoon night and report on the state of the embankment facing. he would interrupt the field council of findlayson and hitchcock without fear till his wonderful english or his still more wonderful lingua franca half portuguese and half malay run out and he be force to take string and show the knot that he would recommend. he control his own gang of tacklemen mysterious relative from kutch mandvi gather month by month and try to the uttermost. no consideration of family or kin allow peroo to keep weak hand or a giddy head on the pay roll. my honour be the honour of this bridge he would say to the about to be dismiss. what do i care for your honour. go and work on a steamer. that be all you be fit for. 
the little cluster of hut where he and his gang live centre round the tattered dwell of a sea priest one who have never set foot on black water but have be choose a ghostly counsellor by two generation of sea rover all unaffected by port mission or those creed which be thrust upon sailor by agency along thames bank. the priest of the lascara have nothing to do with their caste or indeed with anything at all. he eat the offering of his church and sleep and smoke and sleep again for say peroo who have hale him a thousand mile inland he be a very holy man. he never care what you eat so long a you do not eat beef and that be good because on land we worship shiva we kharvas. but at sea on the kumpani s boat we attend strictly to the order of the burra malum [the first mate] and on this bridge we observe what finlinson sahib say. 
finlinson sahib have that day give order to clear the scaffold from the guard tower on the right bank and peroo with his mate be cast loose and lower down the bamboo pole and plank a swiftly a ever they have whip the cargo out of a coaster. 
from his trolley he could hear the whistle of the serang s silver pipe and the creak and clatter of the pulley. peroo be stand on the topmost cop of the tower clothe in the blue dungaree of his abandon service and a findlayson motion to him to be careful for his be no life to throw away he grip the last pole and shade his eye ship fashion answer with the long draw wail of the fo c sle lookout. ham dekhta hai. i be look out. findlayson laugh and then sigh. it be year since he have see a steamer and he be sick for home. a his trolley pass under the tower peroo descend by a rope ape fashion and cry. it look well now sahib. our bridge be all but do. what think you mother gunga will say when the rail run over. 
she ha say little so far. it be never mother gunga that delay u. 
there be always time for her. and none the le there ha be delay. ha the sahib forget last autumn s flood when the stoneboats be sink without warn or only a half day s warn. 
yes but nothing save a big flood could hurt u now. the spur be hold well on the west bank. 
mother gunga eat great allowance. there be always room for more stone on the revetment. i tell this to the chota sahib he mean hitchcock and he laugh. 
no matter peroo. another year thou wilt be able to build a bridge in thine own fashion. 
the lascar grin. then it will not be in this way with stonework sink under water a the quetta be sink. i like sus suspen sheen bridge that fly from bank to bank with one big step like a gang plank. then no water can hurt. when doe the lord sahib come to open the bridge. 
in three month when the weather be cool. 
ho. ho. he be like the burra malum. he sleep below while the work be be do. then he come upon the quarter deck and touch with his finger and say. this be not clean. dam jibboonwallah. 
but the lord sahib doe not call me a dam jibboonwallah peroo. 
no sahib. but he doe not come on deck till the work be all finish. even the burra malum of the nerbudda say once at tuticorin. 
bah. go. i be busy. 
i also. say peroo with an unshaken countenance. may i take the light dinghy now and row along the spur. 
to hold them with thy hand. they be i think sufficiently heavy. 
nay sahib. it be thus. at sea on the black water we have room to be blow up and down without care. here we have no room at all. look you we have put the river into a dock and run her between stone sill. 
findlayson smile at the we. 
we have bitted and bridle her. she be not like the sea that can beat against a soft beach. she be mother gunga in iron. his voice fell a little. 
peroo thou hast be up and down the world more even than i. speak true talk now. how much dolt thou in thy heart believe of mother gunga. 
all that our priest say. london be london sahib. sydney be sydney and port darwin be port darwin. also mother gunga be mother gunga and when i come back to her bank i know this and worship. in london i do poojah to the big temple by the river for the sake of the god within. yes i will not take the cushion in the dinghy. 
findlayson mount his horse and trot to the shed of a bungalow that he share with his assistant. the place have become home to him in the last three year. he have grill in the heat sweat in the rain and shiver with fever under the rude thatch roof. the lime wash beside the door be cover with rough drawing and formula and the sentry path tread in the mat of the verandah show where he have walk alone. there be no eight hour limit to an engineer s work and the even meal with hitchcock be eat boot and spur. over their cigar they listen to the hum of the village a the gang come up from the river bed and the light begin to twinkle. 
peroo ha go up the spur in your dinghy. he s take a couple of nephew with him and he s loll in the stern like a commodore say hitchcock. 
that s all right. he s get something on his mind. you d think that ten year in the british india boat would have knock most of his religion out of him. 
so it ha say hitchcock chuckle. i overhear him the other day in the middle of a most atheistical talk with that fat old guru of theirs. peroo deny the efficacy of prayer. and want the guru to go to sea and watch a gale out with him and see if he could stop a monsoon. 
all the same if you carry off his guru he d leave u like a shoot. he be yarn away to me about pray to the dome of st. paul s when he be in london. 
he tell me that the first time he go into the engine room of a steamer when he be a boy he pray to the low pressure cylinder. 
not half a bad thing to pray to either. he s propitiate his own god now and he want to know what mother gunga will think of a bridge be run across her. who s there. a shadow darken the doorway and a telegram be put into hitchcock s hand. 
she ought to be pretty well use to it by this time. only a tar. it ought to be ralli s answer about the new rivet. great heaven. hitchcock jump to his foot. 
what be it. say the senior and take the form. that s what mother gunga think be it he say read. keep cool young un. we ve get all our work cut out for u. let s see. muir wire half an hour ago. flood on the ramgunga. look out. well that give u one two nine and a half for the flood to reach melipur ghaut and seven s sixteen and a half to lataoli say fifteen hour before it come down to u. 
curse that hill feed sewer of a ramgunga. findlayson this be two month before anything could have be expect and the leave bank be litter up with stuff still. two full month before the time. 
that s why it come. i ve only know indian river for five and twenty year and i don t pretend to understand. here come another tar. findlayson open the telegram. cockran this time from the gang canal. heavy rain here. bad. he might have save the last word. well we don t want to know any more. we ve get to work the gang all night and clean up the river bed. you ll take the east bank and work out to meet me in the middle. get every thing that float below the bridge. we shall have quite enough rivercraft come down adrift anyhow without let the stone boat ram the pier. what have you get on the east bank that need look after. 
pontoon one big pontoon with the overhead crane on it. t other overhead crane on the mend pontoon with the cart road rivet from twenty to twenty three pier two construction line and a turn spur. the pilework must take it chance say hitchcock. 
all right. roll up everything you can lay hand on. we ll give the gang fifteen minute more to eat their grub. 
close to the verandah stand a big night gong never use except for flood or fire in the village. hitchcock have call for a fresh horse and be off to his side of the bridge when findlayson take the cloth bind stick and smite with the rub stroke that bring out the full thunder of the metal. 
long before the last rumble cease every night gong in the village have take up the warn. to these be add the hoarse scream of conch in the little temple. the throb of drum and tom tom. and from the european quarter where the riveter live mccartney s bugle a weapon of offence on sunday and festival bray desperately call to stable. engine after engine toil home along the spur at the end of her day s work whistle in answer till the whistle be answer from the far bank. then the big gong thunder thrice for a sign that it be flood and not fire. conch drum and whistle echo the call and the village quiver to the sound of bare foot run upon soft earth. the order in all case be to stand by the day s work and wait instruction. the gang pour by in the dusk. men stop to knot a loin cloth or fasten a sandal. gang foreman shout to their subordinate a they run or pause by the tool issue shed for bar and mattock. locomotive creep down their track wheel deep in the crowd. till the brown torrent disappear into the dusk of the river bed race over the pilework swarm along the lattice cluster by the crane and stand still each man in his place. 
then the trouble beat of the gong carry the order to take up everything and bear it beyond highwater mark and the flare lamp break out by the hundred between the web of dull iron a the riveter begin a night s work race against the flood that be to come. the girder of the three centre pier those that stand on the crib be all but in position. they need just a many rivet a could be drive into them for the flood would assuredly wash out their support and the ironwork would settle down on the cap of stone if they be not block at the end. a hundred crowbar strain at the sleeper of the temporary line that feed the unfinished pier. it be heave up in length load into truck and back up the bank beyond flood level by the groan locomotive. the tool shed on the sand melt away before the attack of shout army and with them go the stack rank of government store iron bind box of rivet plier cutter duplicate part of the rivet machine spare pump and chain. the big crane would be the last to be shift for she be hoist all the heavy stuff up to the main structure of the bridge. the concrete block on the fleet of stone boat be drop overside where there be any depth of water to guard the pier and the empty boat themselves be pole under the bridge down stream. it be here that peroo s pipe shrill loud for the first stroke of the big gong have bring the dinghy back at race speed and peroo and his people be strip to the waist work for the honour and credit which be good than life. 
i know she would speak he cry. i know but the telegraph give u good warn. o son of unthinkable beget child of unspeakable shame be we here for the look of the thing. it be two foot of wire rope fray at the end and it do wonder a peroo leap from gunnel to gunnel shout the language of the sea. 
findlayson be more trouble for the stone boat than anything else. mccartney with his gang be block up the end of the three doubtful span but boat adrift if the flood chance to be a high one might endanger the girder. and there be a very fleet in the shrink channel. 
get them behind the swell of the guard tower he shout down to peroo. it will be dead water there. get them below the bridge. 
accha. [very good. ] i know. we be moor them with wire rope be the answer. heh. i listen to the chota sahib. he be work hard. 
from across the river come an almost continuous whistle of locomotive back by the rumble of stone. hitchcock at the last minute be spend a few hundred more truck of tarakee stone in reinforce his spur and embankment. 
the bridge challenge mother gunga say peroo with a laugh. but when she talk i know whose voice will be the loud. 
for hour the naked men work scream and shout under the light. it be a hot moonless night. the end of it be darken by cloud and a sudden squall that make findlayson very grave. 
she move. say peroo just before the dawn. mother gunga be awake. hear. he dip his hand over the side of a boat and the current mumble on it. a little wave hit the side of a pier with a crisp slap. 
six hour before her time say findlayson mop his forehead savagely. now we can t depend on anything. we d good clear all hand out of the river bed. 
again the big gong beat and a second time there be the rush of naked foot on earth and ring iron. the clatter of tool cease. in the silence men hear the dry yawn of water crawl over thirsty sand. 
foreman after foreman shout to findlayson who have post himself by the guard tower that his section of the river bed have be clean out and when the last voice drop findlayson hurry over the bridge till the iron plat of the permanent way give place to the temporary plank walk over the three centre pier and there he meet hitchcock. 
all clear your side. say findlayson. the whisper ring in the box of latticework. 
yes and the east channel s fill now. we re utterly out of our reckon. when be this thing down on u. 
there s no say. she s fill a fast a she can. look. findlayson point to the plank below his foot where the sand burn and defile by month of work be begin to whisper and fizz. 
what order. say hitchcock. 
call the roll count store sit on your hunker and pray for the bridge. that s all i can think of. good night. don t risk your life try to fish out anything that may go down stream. 
oh i ll be a prudent a you be. night. heaven how she s fill. here s the rain in earnest. findlayson pick his way back to his bank sweep the last of mccartney s riveter before him. the gang have spread themselves along the embankment regardless of the cold rain of the dawn and there they wait for the flood. only peroo keep his men together behind the swell of the guard tower where the stone boat lay tie fore and aft with hawser wire rope and chain. 
a shrill wail run along the line grow to a yell half fear and half wonder. the face of the river whiten from bank to bank between the stone facing and the faraway spur go out in spout of foam. mother gunga have come bank high in haste and a wall of chocolate colour water be her messenger. there be a shriek above the roar of the water the complaint of the span come down on their block a the crib be whirl out from under their belly. the stone boat groan and grind each other in the eddy that swing round the abutment and their clumsy mast rise high and high against the dim sky line. 
before she be shut between these wall we know what she would do. now she be thus cramp god only know what she will do. say peroo watch the furious turmoil round the guard tower. ohe. fight then. fight hard for it be thus that a woman wear herself out. 
but mother gunga would not fight a peroo desire. after the first down stream plunge there come no more wall of water but the river lift herself bodily a a snake when she drink in midsummer pluck and finger along the revetment and bank up behind the pier till even findlayson begin to recalculate the strength of his work. 
when day come the village gasp. only last night men say turn to each other it be a a town in the river bed. look now. 
and they look and wonder afresh at the deep water the race water that lick the throat of the pier. the farther bank be veil by rain into which the bridge run out and vanish. the spur up stream be mark by no more than eddy and spout and down stream the pen river once free of her guide line have spread like a sea to the horizon. then hurry by roll in the water dead men and ox together with here and there a patch of thatch roof that melt when it touch a pier. 
big flood say peroo and findlayson nod. it be a big a flood a he have any wish to watch. his bridge would stand what be upon her now but not very much more and if by any of a thousand chance there happen to be a weakness in the embankment mother gunga would carry his honour to the sea with the other raffle. bad of all there be nothing to do except to sit still. and findlayson sit still under his macintosh till his helmet become pulp on his head and his boot be over ankle in mire. he take no count of time for the river be mark the hour inch by inch and foot by foot along the embankment and he listen numb and hungry to the strain of the stone boat the hollow thunder under the pier and the hundred noise that make the full note of a flood. once a drip servant bring him food but he could not eat. and once he think that he hear a faint toot from a locomotive across the river and then he smile. the bridge s failure would hurt his assistant not a little but hitchcock be a young man with his big work yet to do. for himself the crash mean everything everything that make a hard life worth the live. they would say the men of his own profession. he remember the half pity thing that he himself have say when lockhart s new waterworks burst and break down in brickheaps and sludge and lockhart s spirit break in him and he die. he remember what he himself have say when the sumao bridge go out in the big cyclone by the sea. and most he remember poor hartopp s face three week late when the shame have mark it. his bridge be twice the size of hartopp s and it carry the findlayson truss a well a the new pier shoe the findlayson bolt shoe. there be no excuse in his service. government might listen perhaps but his own kind would judge him by his bridge a that stand or fell. he go over it in his head plate by plate span by span brick by brick pier by pier remember compare estimate and recalculate l there should be any mistake. and through the long hour and through the flight of formula that dance and wheel before him a cold fear would come to pinch his heart. his side of the sum be beyond question. but what man know mother gunga s arithmetic. even a he be make all sure by the multiplication table the river might be scoop a pot hole to the very bottom of any one of those eighty foot pier that carry his reputation. again a servant come to him with food but his mouth be dry and he could only drink and return to the decimal in his brain. and the river be still rise. peroo in a mat shelter coat crouch at his foot watch now his face and now the face of the river but say nothing. 
at last the lascar rise and flounder through the mud towards the village but he be careful to leave an ally to watch the boat. 
presently he return most irreverently drive before him the priest of his creed a fat old man with a grey beard that whip the wind with the wet cloth that blow over his shoulder. never be see so lamentable a guru. 
what good be offering and little kerosene lamp and dry grain shout peroo if squat in the mud be all that thou canst do. thou hast deal long with the god when they be content and well wish. now they be angry. speak to them. 
what be a man against the wrath of god. whine the priest cower a the wind take him. let me go to the temple and i will pray there. 
son of a pig pray here. be there no return for salt fish and curry powder and dry onion. call aloud. tell mother gunga we have have enough. bid her be still for the night. i cannot pray but i have be serve in the kumpani s boat and when men do not obey my order i a flourish of the wire rope colt round the sentence and the priest break free from his disciple flee to the village. 
fat pig. say peroo. after all that we have do for him. when the flood be down i will see to it that we get a new guru. finlinson sahib it darken for night now and since yesterday nothing ha be eat. be wise sahib. no man can endure watch and great think on an empty belly. lie down sahib. the river will do what the river will do. 
the bridge be mine. i cannot leave it. 
wilt thou hold it up with thy hand then. say peroo laugh. i be trouble for my boat and sheer before the flood come. now we be in the hand of the god. the sahib will not eat and lie down. take these then. they be meat and good toddy together and they kill all weariness besides the fever that follow the rain. i have eat nothing else to day at all. 
he take a small tin tobacco box from his sodden waistbelt and thrust it into findlayson s hand say nay do not be afraid. it be no more than opium clean malwa opium. 
findlayson shake two or three of the dark brown pellet into his hand and hardly know what he do swallow them. the stuff be at least a good guard against fever the fever that be creep upon him out of the wet mud and he have see what peroo could do in the stew mist of autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box. 
peroo nod with bright eye. in a little in a little the sahib will find that he think well again. i too will he dive into his treasure box resettle the rain coat over his head and squat down to watch the boat. it be too dark now to see beyond the first pier and the night seem to have give the river new strength. findlayson stand with his chin on his chest think. there be one point about one of the pier the seventh that he have not fully settle in his mind. the figure would not shape themselves to the eye except one by one and at enormous interval of time. there be a sound rich and mellow in his ear like the deep note of a double bass an entrance sound upon which he ponder for several hour a it seem. then peroo be at his elbow shout that a wire hawser have snap and the stone boat be loose. findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out fanwise to a long draw shriek of wire strain across gunnel. 
a tree hit them. they will all go cry peroo. the main hawser ha part. what doe the sahib do. 
an immensely complex plan have suddenly flash into findlayson s mind. he saw the rope run from boat to boat in straight line and angle each rope a line of white fire. but there be one rope which be the master rope. he could see that rope. if he could pull it once it be absolutely and mathematically certain that the disorder fleet would reassemble itself in the backwater behind the guard tower. but why he wonder be peroo cling so desperately to his waist a he hasten down the bank. it be necessary to put the lascar aside gently and slowly because it be necessary to save the boat and further to demonstrate the extreme ease of the problem that look so difficult. and then but it be of no conceivable importance a wirerope race through his hand burn it the high bank disappear and with it all the slowly disperse factor of the problem. he be sit in the rainy darkness sit in a boat that spin like a top and peroo be stand over him. 
i have forget say the lascar slowly that to those fast and unused the opium be bad than any wine. those who die in gunga go to the god. still i have no desire to present myself before such great one. can the sahib swim. 
what need. he can fly fly a swiftly a the wind be the thick answer. 
he be mad. mutter peroo under his breath. and he throw me aside like a bundle of dung cake. well he will not know his death. the boat cannot live an hour here even if she strike nothing. it be not good to look at death with a clear eye. 
he refresh himself again from the tin box squat down in the bow of the reel peg and stitch craft star through the mist at the nothing that be there. a warm drowsiness creep over findlayson the chief engineer whose duty be with his bridge. the heavy raindrop strike him with a thousand tingle little thrill and the weight of all time since time be make hang heavy on his eyelid. he think and perceive that he be perfectly secure for the water be so solid that a man could surely step out upon it and stand still with his leg apart to keep his balance this be the most important point would be bear with great and easy speed to the shore. but yet a good plan come to him. it need only an exertion of will for the soul to hurl the body ashore a wind drive paper to waft it kite fashion to the bank. thereafter the boat spin dizzily suppose the high wind get under the free body. would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the far away sand or would it duck about beyond control through all eternity. findlayson grip the gunnel to anchor himself for it seem that he be on the edge of take the flight before he have settle all his plan. opium ha more effect on the white man than the black. peroo be only comfortably indifferent to accident. she cannot live he grunt. her seam open already. if she be even a dinghy with oar we could have ride it out. but a box with hole be no good. finlinson sahib she fill. 
accha. i be go away. come thou also. 
in his mind findlayson have already escape from the boat and be circle high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot. his body he be really sorry for it gross helplessness lay in the stern the water rush about it knee. 
how very ridiculous. he say to himself from his eyrie that be findlayson chief of the kashi bridge. the poor beast be go to be drown too. drown when it s close to shore. i m i m onshore already. why doesn t it come along. 
to his intense disgust he find his soul back in his body again and that body splutter and choke in deep water. the pain of the reunion be atrocious but it be necessary also to fight for the body. he be conscious of grasp wildly at wet sand and stride prodigiously a one stride in a dream to keep foothold in the swirl water till at last he haul himself clear of the hold of the river and drop pant on wet earth. 
not this night say peroo in his ear. the god have protect u. the lascar move his foot cautiously and they rustle among dry stump. this be some island of last year s indigo crop he go on. we shall find no men here. but have great care sahib. all the snake of a hundred mile have be flood out. here come the lightning on the heel of the wind. now we shall be able to look. but walk carefully. 
findlayson be far and far beyond any fear of snake or indeed any merely human emotion. he saw after he have rub the water from his eye with an immense clearness and tread so it seem to himself with world encompass stride. somewhere in the night of time he have build a bridge a bridge that span illimitable level of shin sea. but the deluge have sweep it away leave this one island under heaven for findlayson and his companion sole survivor of the breed of man. 
an incessant lightning fork and blue show all that there be to be see on the little patch in the flood a clump of thorn a clump of sway creak bamboo and a grey gnarl peepul overshadow a hindoo shrine from whose dome float a tattered red flag. the holy man whose summer rest place it be have long since abandon it and the weather have break the red daub image of his god. the two men stumble heavy limbed and heavy eye over the ash of a brick set cook place and drop down under the shelter of the branch while the rain and river roar together. 
the stump of the indigo crackle and there be a smell of cattle a a huge and drip brahminee bull shoulder his way under the tree. the flash reveal the trident mark of shiva on his flank the insolence of head and hump the luminous stag like eye the brow crown with a wreath of sodden marigold bloom and the silky dewlap that almost sweep the grind. there be a noise behind him of other beast come up from the floodline through the thicket a sound of heavy foot and deep breathe. 
here be more beside ourselves say findlayson his head against the tree pole look through half shut eye wholly at ease. 
truly say peroo thickly and no small one. 
what be they then. i do not see clearly. 
the god. who else. look. 
ah true. the god surely the god. findlayson smile a his head fell forward on his chest. peroo be eminently right. after the flood who should be alive in the land except the god that make it the god to whom his village pray nightly the god who be in all men s mouth and about all men s way. he could not raise his head or stir a finger for the trance that hold him and peroo be smile vacantly at the lightning. 
the bull pause by the shrine his head lower to the damp earth. a green parrot in the branch preen his wet wing and scream against the thunder a the circle under the tree fill with the shift shadow of beast. there be a black buck at the bull s heel such a buck a findlayson in his far away life upon earth might have see in dream a buck with a royal head ebon back silver belly and gleam straight horn. beside him her head bow to the grind the green eye burn under the heavy brow with restless tail switch the dead grass pace a tigress full belly and deep jowled. 
the bull crouch beside the shrine and there leap from the darkness a monstrous grey ape who seat himself man wise in the place of the fall image and the rain spill like jewel from the hair of his neck and shoulder. 
other shadow come and go behind the circle among them a drunken man flourish staff and drink bottle. then a hoarse bellow break out from near the grind. the flood lessen even now it cry. hour by hour the water fall and their bridge still stand. 
my bridge say findlayson to himself. that must be very old work now. what have the god to do with my bridge. 
his eye roll in the darkness follow the roar. a mugger the blunt nose ford haunt mugger of the gang draggle herself before the beast lash furiously to right and leave with her tail. 
they have make it too strong for me. in all this night i have only tear away a handful of plank. the wall stand. the tower stand. they have chain my flood and the river be not free any more. heavenly one take this yoke away. give me clear water between bank and bank. it be i mother gunga that speak. the justice of the god. deal me the justice of the god. 
what say i. whisper peroo. this be in truth a punchayet of the god. now we know that all the world be dead save you and i sahib. 
the parrot scream and flutter again and the tigress her ear flat to her head snarl wickedly. 
somewhere in the shadow a great trunk and gleam tusk sway to and fro and a low gurgle break the silence that follow on the snarl. 
we be here say a deep voice the great one. one only and very many. shiv my father be here with indra. kali ha speak already. hanuman listen also. 
kashi be without her kotwal tonight shout the man with the drink bottle fling his staff to the grind while the island ring to the bay of hound. give her the justice of the god. 
ye be still when they pollute my water the great crocodile bellow. ye make no sign when my river be trap between the wall. i have no help save my own strength and that fail the strength of mother gunga fail before their guard tower. what could i do. i have do everything. finish now heavenly one. 
i bring the death. i ride the spot sickness from hut to hut of their workman and yet they would not cease. a nose slitten hide wear as lame scissor legged and gall limp forward. i cast the death at them out of my nostril but they would not cease. 
peroo would have move but the opium lay heavy upon him. 
bah. he say spit. here be sitala herself. mata the smallpox. ha the sahib a handkerchief to put over his face. 
little help. they feed me the corps for a month and i fling them out on my sand bar but their work go forward. demon they be and son of demon. and ye leave mother gunga alone for their fire carriage to make a mock of. the justice of the god on the bridge builder. 
the bull turn the cud in his mouth and answer slowly. if the justice of the god catch all who make a mock of holy thing there would be many dark altar in the land mother. 
but this go beyond a mock say the tigress dart forward a grip paw. thou knowest shiv and ye too heavenly one. ye know that they have defile gunga. surely they must come to the destroyer. let indra judge. 
the buck make no movement a he answer. how long ha this evil be. 
three year a men count year say the mugger close press to the earth. 
doe mother gunga die then in a year that she be so anxious to see vengeance now. the deep sea be where she run but yesterday and tomorrow the sea shall cover her again a the god count that which men call time. can any say that this their bridge endure till tomorrow. say the buck. 
there be along hush and in the clear of the storm the full moon stand up above the drip tree. 
judge ye then say the river sullenly. i have speak my shame. the flood fall still. i can do no more. 
for my own part it be the voice of the great ape seat within the shrine it plea me well to watch these men remember that i also build no small bridge in the world s youth. 
they say too snarl the tiger that these men come of the wreck of thy army hanuman and therefore thou hast aid. 
they toil a my army toil in lanka and they believe that their toil endure. indra be too high but shiv thou knowest how the land be thread with their fire carriage. 
yea i know say the bull. their god instruct them in the matter. 
a laugh run round the circle. 
their god. what should their god know. they be bear yesterday and those that make them be scarcely yet cold say the mugger tomorrow their god will die. 
ho. say peroo. mother gunga talk good talk. i tell that to the padre sahib who preach on the mombassa and he ask the burra malum to put me in iron for a great rudeness. 
surely they make these thing to please their god say the bull again. 
not altogether the elephant roll forth. it be for the profit of my mahajuns fat money lender that worship me at each new year when they draw my image at the head of the account book. i look over their shoulder by lamplight see that the name in the book be those of men in far place for all the town be draw together by the fire carriage and the money come and go swiftly and the account book grow a fat a myself. and i who be ganesh of good luck i bless my people. 
they have change the face of the land which be my land. they have kill and make new town on my bank say the mugger. 
it be but the shift of a little dirt. let the dirt dig in the dirt if it plea the dirt answer the elephant. 
but afterwards. say the tiger. afterwards they will see that mother gunga can avenge no insult and they fall away from her first and late from u all one by one. in the end ganesh we be leave with naked altar. 
the drunken man stagger to his foot and hiccup vehemently. 
kali lie. my sister lie. also this my stick be the kotwal of kashi and he keep tally of my pilgrim. when the time come to worship bhairon and it be always time the fire carriage move one by one and each hear a thousand pilgrim. they do not come afoot any more but roll upon wheel and my honour be increase. 
gunga i have see thy bed at pryag black with the pilgrim say the ape lean forward and but for the fire carriage they would have come slowly and in few number. remember. 
they come to me always bhairon go on thickly. by day and night they pray to me all the common people in the field and the road. who be like bhairon today. what talk be this of change faith. be my staff kotwal of kashi for nothing. he keep the tally and he say that never be so many altar a today and the fire carriage serf them well. bhairon be i bhairon of the common people and the chief of tithe heavenly one today. also my staff say. 
peace thou. low the bull. the worship of the school be mine and they talk very wisely ask whether i be one or many a be the delight of my people and ye know what i be. kali my wife thou knowest also. 
yea i know say the tigress with lower head. 
great be i than gunga also. for ye know who move the mind of men that they should count gunga holy among the river. who die in that water ye know how men say come to u without punishment and gunga know that the fire carriage ha bear to her score upon score of such anxious one. and kali know that she ha hold her chief festival among the pilgrimage that be feed by the fire carriage. who smite at pooree under the image there her thousand in a day and a night and bind the sickness to the wheel of the fire carriage so that it run from one end of the land to the other. who but kali. before the fire carriage come it be a heavy toil. the fire carriage have serve thee well mother of death. but i speak for mine own altar who be not bhairon of the common folk but shiv. men go to and fro make word and tell talk of strange god and i listen. faith follow faith among my people in the school and i have no anger. for when all word be say and the new talk be end to shiv men return at the last. 
true. it be true murmur hanuman. to shiv and to the others mother they return. i creep from temple to temple in the north where they worship one god and his prophet. and presently my image be alone within their shrine. 
small thank say the buck turn his head slowly. i be that one and his prophet also. 
even so father say hanuman. and to the south i go who be the old of the god a men know the god and presently i touch the shrine of the new faith and the woman whom we know be hew twelve arm and still they call her mary. 
small thank brother say the tigress. i be that woman. 
even so sister. and i go west among the fire carriage and stand before the bridge builder in many shape and because of me they change their faith and be very wise. ho. ho. i be the builder of bridge indeed bridge between this and that and each bridge lead surely to u in the end. be content gunga. 
neither these men nor those that follow them mock thee at all. 
be i alone then heavenly one. shall i smooth out my flood l unhappily i bear away their wall. will indra dry my spring in the hill and make me crawl humbly between their wharf. shall i bury me in the sand ere i offend. 
and all for the sake of a little iron bar with the fire carriage atop. truly mother gunga be always young. say ganesh the elephant. a child have not speak more foolishly. let the dirt dig in the dirt ere it return to the dirt. i know only that my people grow rich and praise me. shiv ha say that the men of the school do not forget. bhairon be content for his crowd of the common people. and hanuman laugh. 
surely i laugh say the ape. my altar be few beside those of ganesh or bhairon but the fire carriage bring me new worshipper from beyond the black water the men who believe that their god be toil. i run before them beckon and they follow hanuman. 
give them the toil that they desire then say the river. make a bar across my flood and throw the water back upon the bridge. once thou wast strong in lanka hanuman. stoop and lift my bed. 
who give life can take life. the ape scratch in the mud with a long forefinger. and yet who would profit by the kill. very many would die. 
there come up from the water a snatch of a love song such a the boy sing when they watch their cattle in the noon heat of late spring. the parrot scream joyously sidle along his branch with lower head a the song grow loud and in a patch of clear moonlight stand reveal the young herd the darling of the gopis the idol of dream maid and of mother ere their child be bear krishna the well beloved. he stoop to knot up his long wet hair and the parrot flutter to his shoulder. 
fleet and sing and sing and fleet hiccup bhairon. those make thee late for the council brother. 
and then. say krishna with a laugh throw back his head. ye can do little without me or karma here. he fondle the parrot s plumage and laugh again. what be this sit and talk together. i hear mother gunga roar in the dark and so come quickly from a but where i lay warm. and what have ye do to karma that he be so wet and silent. and what doe mother gunga here. be the heaven full that ye must come paddle in the mud beast wise. karma what do they do. 
gunga ha pray for a vengeance on the bridgebuilders and kali be with her. now she bid hanuman whelm the bridge that her honour may be make great cry the parrot. i wait here know that thou wouldst come o my master. 
and the heavenly one say nothing. do gunga and the mother of sorrow out talk them. do none speak for my people. 
nay say ganesh move uneasily from foot to foot. i say it be but dirt at play and why should we stamp it flat. 
i be content to let them toil well content say hanuman. 
what have i to do with gunga s anger. say the bull. 
i be bhairon of the common folk and this my staff be kotwal of all kashi. i speak for the common people. 
thou. the young god s eye sparkle. 
be i not the first of the god in their mouth today. return bhairon unabashed. for the sake of the common people i say very many wise thing which i have now forget but this my staff. 
krishna turn impatiently saw the mugger at his foot and kneel slip an arm round the cold neck. mother he say gently get thee to thy flood again. this matter be not for thee. what harm shall thy honour take of this live dirt. thou hast give them their field new year after year and by thy flood they be make strong. they come all to thee at the last. what need to slay them now. have pity mother for a little and it be only for a little. 
if it be only for a little the slow beast begin. 
be they god then. krishna return with a laugh his eye look into the dull eye of the river. be certain that it be only for a little. the heavenly one have hear thee and presently justice will be do. go now mother to the flood again. men and cattle be thick on the water the bank fall the village melt because of thee. 
but the bridge the bridge stand. the mugger turn grunt into the undergrowth a krishna rise. 
it be end say the tigress viciously. there be no more justice from the heavenly one. ye have make shame and sport of gunga who ask no more than a few score life. 
of my people who lie under the leaf roof of the village yonder of the young girl and the young men who sing to them in the dark of the child that will be bear next morn of that which be beget tonight say krishna. and when all be do what profit. tomorrow see them at work. ay if ye sweep the bridge out from end to end they would begin anew. hear me. bhairon be drink always. hanuman mock his people with new riddle. 
nay but they be very old one the ape say laugh. 
shiv hear the talk of the school and the dream of the holy men. ganesh think only of his fat trader. but i i live with these my people ask for no gift and so receive them hourly. 
and very tender art thou of thy people say the tigress. 
they be my own. the old woman dream of me turn in their sleep. the maid look and listen for me when they go to fill their lotahs by the river. i walk by the young men wait without the gate at dusk and i call over my shoulder to the whitebeards. ye know heavenly one that i alone of u all walk upon the earth continually and have no pleasure in our heaven so long a a green blade spring here or there be two voice at twilight in the stand crop. wise be ye but ye live far off forget whence ye come. so do i not forget. and the fire carriage feed your shrine ye say. and the fire carriage bring a thousand pilgrim where but ten come in the old year. true. that be true today. 
but tomorrow they be dead brother say ganesh. 
peace. say the bull a hanuman lean forward again. and tomorrow beloved what of tomorrow. 
this only. a new word creep from mouth to mouth among the common folk a word that neither man nor god can lay hold of an evil word a little lazy word among the common folk say. and none know who set that word afoot. that they weary of ye heavenly one. 
the god laugh together softly. and then beloved. they say. 
and to cover that weariness they my people will bring to thee shiv and to thee ganesh at first great offering and a loud noise of worship. but the word ha go abroad and after they will pay few due to our fat brahmin. next they will forget your altar but so slowly that no man can say how his forgetfulness begin. 
i know i know. i speak this also but they would not hear say the tigress. we should have slay we should have slay. 
it be too late now. ye should have slay at the begin when the men from across the water have teach our folk nothing. now my people see their work and go away think. they do not think of the heavenly one altogether. they think of the fire carriage and the other thing that the bridge builder have do and when your priest thrust forward hand ask alms they give a little unwillingly. that be the begin among one or two or five or ten for i move among my people know what be in their heart. 
and the end jester of the god. what shall the end be. say ganesh. 
the end shall be a it be in the begin o slothful son of shiv. the flame shall die upon the altar and the prayer upon the tongue till ye become little god again god of the jungle name that the hunter of rat and noosers of dog whisper in the thicket and among the cave rag god pot godlings of the tree and the villagemark a ye be at the begin. that be the end ganesh for thee and for bhairon bhairon of the common people. 
it be very far away grunt bhairon. also it be a lie. 
many woman have kiss krishna. they tell him this to cheer their own heart when the grey hair come and he ha tell u the tale say the bull below his breath. 
their god come and we change them. i take the woman and make her twelve arm. so shall we twist all their god say hanuman. 
their god. this be no question of their god one or three man or woman. the matter be with the people. they move and not the god of the bridgebuilders say krishna. 
so be it. i have make a man worship the fire carriage a it stand still breathe smoke and he know not that he worship me say hanuman the ape. they will only change a little the name of their god. i shall lead the builder of the bridge a of old. shiv shall be worship in the school by such a doubt and despise their fellow. ganesh shall have his mahajuns and bhairon the donkey driver the pilgrim and the seller of toy. beloved they will do no more than change the name and that we have see a thousand time. 
surely they will do no more than change the name echo ganesh. but there be an uneasy movement among the god. 
they will change more than the name. me alone they cannot kill so long a a maiden and a man meet together or the spring follow the winter rain. heavenly one not for nothing have i walk upon the earth. my people know not now what they know. but i who live with them i read their heart. great king the begin of the end be bear already. the fire carriage shout the name of new god that be not the old under new name. drink now and eat greatly. bathe your face in the smoke of the altar before they grow cold. take due and listen to the cymbal and the drum heavenly one while yet there be flower and song. a men count time the end be far off. but a we who know reckon it be today. i have speak. 
the young god cease and his brother look at each other long in silence. 
this i have not hear before peroo whisper in his companion s ear. and yet sometimes when i oil the brass in the engine room of the goorkha i have wonder if our priest be so wise so wise. the day be come sahib. they will be go by the morning. 
a yellow light broaden in the sky and the tone of the river change a the darkness withdraw. 
suddenly the elephant trumpet aloud a though man have goad him. 
let indra judge. father of all speak thou. what of the thing we have hear. ha krishna lie indeed. or. 
ye know say the buck rise to his foot. ye know the riddle of the god. when brahm cease to dream the heaven and the hell and earth disappear. be content. brahm dream still. the dream come and go and the nature of the dream change but still brahm dream. krishna ha walk too long upon earth and yet i love him the more for the tale he ha tell. the god change beloved all save one. 
ay all save one that make love in the heart of men say krishna knot his girdle. it be but a little time to wait and ye shall know if i lie. 
truly it be but a little time a thou sayest and we shall know. get thee to thy hut again beloved and make sport for the young thing for still brahm dream. go my child. brahm dream and till he wake the god die not. 
whither go they. say the lascar awe strike shiver a little with the cold. 
god know. say findlayson. the river and the island lay in full daylight now and there be never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth under the peepul. only a parrot scream in the branch bring down shower of water drop a he flutter his wing. 
up. we be cramp with cold. ha the opium die out. canst thou move sahib. 
findlayson stagger to his foot and shake himself. his head swim and ache but the work of the opium be over and a he sluice his forehead in a pool the chief engineer of the kashi bridge be wonder how he have manage to fall upon the island what chance the day offer of return and above all how his work stand. 
peroo i have forget much. i be under the guard tower watch the river. and then. do the flood sweep u away. 
no. the boat break loose sahib and. if the sahib have forget about the opium decidedly peroo would not remind him. in strive to retie them so it seem to me but it be darka rope catch the sahib and throw him upon a boat. consider that we two with hitchcock sahib build a it be that bridge i come also upon the boat which come rid on horseback a it be on the nose of this island and so split cast u ashore. i make a great cry when the boat leave the wharf and without doubt hitchcock sahib will come for u. a for the bridge so many have die in the build that it cannot fall. 
a fierce sun that draw out all the smell of the sodden land have follow the storm and in that clear light there be no room for a man to think of the dream of the dark. findlayson star up stream across the blaze of move water till his eye ache. there be no sign of any bank to the gang much le of a bridgeline. 
we come down far he say. it be wonderful that we be not drown a hundred time. 
that be the least of the wonder for no man dy before his time. i have see sydney i have see london and twenty great port but peroo look at the damp discolour shrine under the peopul never man ha see that we saw here. 
what. 
ha the sahib forget. or do we black men only see the god. 
there be a fever upon me. findlayson be still look uneasily across the water. it seem that the island be full of beast and men talk but i do not remember. a boat could live in this water now i think. 
oho. then it be true. when brahm cease to dream the god die. now i know indeed what he mean. once too the guru say a much to me. but then i do not understand. now i be wise. 
what. say findlayson over his shoulder. 
peroo go on a if he be talk to himself. six seven ten monsoon since i be watch on the fo c sle of the ehwah the kumpani s big boat and there be a big tufan. green and black water beat and i hold fast to the life line choke under the water. then i think of the god of those whom we saw tonight he star curiously at findlayson s back but the white man be look across the flood. yes i say of those whom we saw this night past and i call upon them to protect me. and while i pray still keep my lookout a big wave come and throw me forward upon the ring of the great black bowanchor and the rewah rise high and high lean towards the lefthand side and the water draw away from beneath her nose and i lay upon my belly hold the ring and look down into those great deep. then i think even in the face of death. if i lose hold i die and for me neither the rewah nor my place by the galley where the rice be cook nor bombay nor calcutta nor even london will be any more for me. how shall i be sure i say that the god to whom i pray will abide at all. this i think and the rewah drop her nose a a hammer fall and all the sea come in and slide me backwards along the fo c sle and over the break of the fo c sle and i very badly bruise my shin against the donkey engine. but i do not die and i have see the god. they be good for live men but for the dead. they have speak themselves. therefore when i come to the village i will beat the guru for talk riddle which be no riddle. when brahm cease to dream the god go. 
look up stream. the light blind. be there smoke yonder. 
peroo shade his eye with his hand. he be a wise man and quick. hitchcock sahib would not trust a rowboat. he ha borrow the rao sahib s steam launch and come to look for u. i have always say that there should have be a steam launch on the bridge work for u. 
the territory of the rao of baraon lay within ten mile of the bridge. and findlayson and hitchcock have spend a fair portion of their scanty leisure in play billiards and shoot black buck with the young man. he have be bear lead by an english tutor of sport taste for some five or six year and be now royally waste the revenue accumulate during his minority by the indian government. his steam launch with it silverplate rail strip silk awning and mahogany deck be a new toy which findlayson have find horribly in the way when the rao come to look at the bridge work. 
it s great luck murmur findlayson but he be none the le afraid wonder what news might be of the bridge. 
the gaudy blue and white funnel come down stream swiftly. they could see hitchcock in the bow with a pair of opera glass and his face be unusually white. then peroo hail and the launch make for the tail of the island. the rao sahib in tweed shoot suit and a seven hue turban wave his royal hand and hitchcock shout. but he need have ask no question for findlayson s first demand be for his bridge. 
all serene. gad i never expect to see you again findlayson. you re seven kos down stream. yes. there s not a stone shift anywhere. but how be you. i borrow the rao sahib s launch and he be good enough to come along. jump in. 
ah finlinson you be very well eh. that be most unprecedented calamity last night eh. my royal palace too it leak like the devil and the crop will also be short all about my country. now you shall back her out hitchcock. i i do not understand steam engine. you be wet. you be cold finlinson. i have some thing to eat here and you will take a good drink. 
i m immensely grateful rao sahib. i believe you ve save my life. how do hitchcock. 
oho. his hair be upon end. he ride to me in the middle of the night and wake me up in the arm of morpheus. i be most truly concern finlinson so i come too. my head priest he be very angry just now. we will go quick mister hitchcock. i be due to attend at twelve forty five in the state temple where we sanctify some new idol. if not so i would have ask you to spend the day with me. they be dam bore these religious ceremony finlinson eh. 
peroo well know to the crew have possess himself of the inlay wheel and be take the launch craftily up stream. but while he steer he be in his mind handle two foot of partially untwist wire rope. and the back upon which he beat be the back of his guru. 
a walk delegate. 
accord to the custom of vermont sunday afternoon be salt time on the farm and unless something very important happen we attend to the salt ourselves. dave and pete the red ox be treat first. they stay in the home meadow ready for work on monday. then come the cow with pan the calf who should have be turn into veal long ago but survive on account of his manner. and lastly the horse scatter through the seventy acre of the back pasture. 
you must go down by the brook that feed the click bubble water ram. up through the sugar bush where the young maple undergrowth close round you like a shallow sea. next follow the faint line of an old county road run past two green hollow fringe with wild rise that mark the cellar of two ruin house. then by lose orchard where nobody ever come except in cider time. then across another brook and so into the back pasture. half of it be pine and hemlock and spruce with sumach and little juniper bush and the other half be grey rock and boulder and moss with green streak of brake and swamp. but the horse like it well enough our own and the others that be turn down there to fee at fifty cent a week. most people walk to the back pasture and find it very rough work. but one can get there in a buggy if the horse know what be expect of him. the safe conveyance be our coupe. this begin life a a buckboard and we buy it for five dollar from a sorrowful man who have no other sort of possession. and the seat come off one night when we be turn a corner in a hurry. after that alteration it make a beautiful salt machine if you hold tight because there be nothing to catch your foot when you fell out and the slat rattle tune. 
one sunday afternoon we go out with the salt a usual. it be a broil hot day and we could not find the horse anywhere till we let tedda gabler the bobtailed mare who throw up the dirt with her big hoof exactly a a tedder throw hay have her head. clever a she be she tip the coupe over in a hide brook before she come out on a ledge of rock where all the horse have gather and be switch fly. the deacon be the first to call to her. he be a very dark iron grey four year old son of grandee. he ha be handle since he be two be drive in a light cart before he be three and now rank a an absolutely steady lady s horse proof against steam roller grade crossing and street procession. 
salt. say the deacon joyfully. you re dreffle late tedda. 
any any place to cramp the coupe. tedda pant. it weigh turr ble this weather. i d a come sooner but they didn t know what they want ner haow. fell out twice both of em. i don t understand sech foolishness. 
you look consider ble het up. guess you d good cramp her under them pine an cool off a piece. 
tedda scramble on the ledge and cramp the coupe in the shade of a tiny little wood of pine while my companion and i lay down among the brown silky needle and gasp. all the home horse be gather round u enjoy their sunday leisure. 
there be rod and rick the senior on the farm. they be the regular road pair bay with black point full brother age son of a hambletonian sire and a morgan dam. there be nip and tuck seal brown rise six brother and sister black hawk by birth perfectly match just finish their education and a handsome a pair a man could wish to find in a forty mile drive. there be muldoon our ex car horse buy at a venture and any colour you choose that be not white. and tweezy who come from kentucky with an affliction of his leave hip which make him a little uncertain how his hind leg be move. he and muldoon have be haul gravel all the week for our new road. the deacon you know already. last of all and eat something be our faithful marcus aurelius antoninus the black buggy horse who have see u through every state of weather and road the horse who be always stand in harness before some door or other a philosopher with the appetite of a shark and the manner of an archbishop. tedda gabler be a new trade with a reputation for vice which be really the result of bad drive. she have one work gait which she could hold till further notice. a roman nose. a large prominent eye. a shave brush of a tail. and an irritable temper. she take her salt through her bridle. but the others trot up nuzzle and wickering for theirs till we empty it on the clean rock. they be all stand at ease on three leg for the most part talk the ordinary gossip of the back pasture about the scarcity of water and gap in the fence and how the early windfall taste that season when little rick blow the last few grain of his allowance into a crevice and say. 
hurry boy. might ha know that livery plug would be around. 
we hear a clatter of hoof and there climb up from the ravine below a fifty center transient a wall eye yellow frame house of a horse send up to board from a livery stable in town where they call him the lamb and never let him out except at night and to stranger. my companion who know and have break most of the horse look at the rag hammer head a it rise and say quietly. 
ni ice beast. man eater if he get the chance see his eye. kicker too see his hock. western horse. 
the animal lumber up snuffle and grunt. his foot show that he have not work for week and week and our creature draw together significantly. 
a usual he say with an underhung sneer bowin your head before the oppressor that come to spend his leisure gloatin over you. 
mine s do say the deacon. he lick up the remnant of his salt drop his nose in his master s hand and sing a little grace all to himself. the deacon ha the most enchant manner of any one i know. 
an fawnin on them for what be your inalienable right. it s humiliatin say the yellow horse sniff to see if he could find a few spare grain. 
go daown hill then boney the deacon reply. guess you ll find somethin to eat still if yer hain t hog it all. you ve ett more n any three of u to day an day fore that an the last two month sence you ve be here. 
i be not addressin myself to the young an immature. i be speakin to those whose opinion an experience command respect. 
i saw rod raise his head a though he be about to make a remark. then he drop it again and stand three corner like a plough horse. rod can cover his mile in a shade under three minute on an ordinary road to an ordinary buggy. he be tremendously powerful behind but like most hambletonians he grow a trifle sullen a he get old. no one can love rod very much. but no one can help respect him. 
i wish to wake those the yellow horse go on to an abidin sense o their wrong an their injury an their outrage. 
haow s that. say marcus aurelius antoninus dreamily. he think boney be talk of some kind of fee. 
an when i say outrage and injury boney wave his tail furiously i mean em too. great oat. that s just what i do mean plain an straight. 
the gentleman talk quite earnest say tuck the mare to nip her brother. there s no doubt thinkin broaden the horizon o the mind. his language be quite lofty. 
hesh si nip answer. 
he hain t widen nothin cep the circle he s ett in pasture. they fee word fer beddin where he come from. 
it s elegant talkin though tuck return with an unconvinced toss of her pretty lean little head. 
the yellow horse hear her and strike an attitude which he mean to be extremely impressive. it make him look a though he have be badly stuff. 
now i ask you i ask you without prejudice an without favour what ha man the oppressor ever do for you. be you not inalienably entitle to the free air o heaven blowin acrost this boundless prairie. 
hev ye ever winter here. say the deacon merrily while the others snicker. it s kind cool. 
not yet say boney. i come from the boundless confine o kansa where the noble of our kind have their abidin place among the sunflower on the threshold o the settin sun in his glory. 
an they send you ahead a a sample. say rick with an amuse quiver of his long beautifully groom tail a thick and a fine and a wavy a a quadroon s back hair. 
kansa sir need no advertisement. her native son rely on themselves an their native sire. yes sir. 
then tweezy lift up his wise and polite old head. his affliction make him bashful a a rule but he be ever the most courteous of horse. 
excuse me suh he say slowly but unless i have be misinfohmed most of your prominent siahs suh be impo ted from kentucky. an i m from paduky. 
there be the least little touch of pride in the last word. 
any horse dat know bean say muldoon suddenly. he have be stand with his hairy chin on tweezy s broad quarter. git out kansa fore dey crip his shoe. i blow in dere from ioway in de day o me youth an innocence an i wuz grateful when dey box me fer n york. you can t tell me anything about kansa i don t wanter fergit. de belt line stable ain t no hoffman house but dey re vanderbilt longside o kansa. 
what the horse o kansa think to day the horse of america will think to morrow. an i tell you that when the horse of america rise in their might the day o the oppressor be end. 
there be a pause till rick say with a little grunt. 
ef you put it that way every one of u ha riz in his might cep marcus mebbe. marky j ever rise in yer might. 
nope say marcus aurelius antoninus thoughtfully quidding over a mouthful of grass. i see a heap o fool try though. 
you admit that you riz. say the kansa horse excitedly. then why why in kansa do you ever go under again. 
horse can t walk on his hind leg all the time say the deacon. 
not when he s jerk over on his back fore he know what fetch him. we ve all do it boney say rick. nip an tuck they try it spite o what the deacon tell em. an the deacon he try it spite o what me an rod tell him. an me an rod try it spite o what grandee tell u. an i guess grandee he try it spite o what his dam tell him. it s the same old circus from generation to generation. colt can t see why he s call on to back. same old rearm on end straight up. same old feelin that you ve best em this time. same old little yank at your mouth when you re up good an tall. same old pegasus act wonderin where you ll light. same old wop when you hit the dirt with your head where your tail should be and your in ards shake up like a bran mash. same old voice in your ear. waal ye little fool an what do you reckon to make by that. we re through with risin in our might on this farm. we go to pole er single accordin ez we re hitch. 
an man the oppressor set an gloat over you same a he s settin now. hain t that be your experience madam. 
this last remark be address to tedda. and any one could see with half an eye that poor old anxious fidgety tedda stamp at the fly must have leave a wild and tumultuous youth behind her. 
pends on the man she answer shift from one foot to the other and address herself to the home horse. they abuse me dreffle when i be young. i guess i be sperrity an nervous some but they didn t allow for that. twas in monroe county noo york an sence then till i come here i ve run away with more men than u d fill a boardin house. why the man that sell me here he say to the bos s he. mind now i ve warn you. twon t be none of my fault if she shed you daown the road. don t you drive her in a top buggy ner thout winker s he ner think this bite ef you look to come home behind her. n the fust thing the bos do be to git the top buggy. 
can t say a i like top buggy say rick. they don t balance good. 
suit me to a ha ar say marcus aurelius antoninus. top buggy mean the baby s in behind an i kin stop while she gather the pretty flower yes an pick a maouthful too. the woman folk all say i hev to be humour an i don t kerry thing to the sweatin point. 
course i ve no prejudice against a top buggy s long s i can see it tedda go on quickly. it s ha f seein the pesky thing bobbin an balancn behind the winker git on my nerve. then the bos look at the bite they d sell with me an s he. jiminy christmas. this u d make a clothe horse stan n end. then he give me a plain bar bite an fit it s if there be some feelin to my maouth. 
hain t ye get any miss tedda. say tuck who ha a mouth like velvet and know it. 
might a have miss tuck but i ve forget. then he give me an open bridle my style s an open bridle an i dunno a i ought to tell this by right he give me a kiss. 
my. say tuck i can t tell fer the shoe o me what make some men so fresh. 
pshaw si say nip what s the sense in actin so. you git a kiss reg lar s hitchin up time. 
well you needn t tell smarty say tuck with a squeal and a kick. 
i d hear o kiss o course tedda go on but they hadn t come my way specially. i don t mind tellin i be that take aback at that man s doin s he might ha light fire cracker on my saddle. then we go out jest s if a kiss be nothin an i wasn t three stride into my gait fore i felt the bos knoo his business an be trustin me. so i study to please him an he never take the whip from the dash a whip drive me plumb distract an the upshot be that waal i ve come up the back pasture to day an the coupe s tip clear over twice an i ve wait till twuz fix each time. you kin judge for yourselves. i don t set up to be no good than my neighbour specially with my tail snip off the way ti but i want you all to know tedda s quit fightin in harness or out of it cep when there s a bear fool in the pasture stuffin his stummick with board that ain t rightly hisn cause he hain t earn it. 
meanin me madam. say the yellow horse. 
ef the shoe fit clinch it say tedda snort. i name no name though to be sure some folk be mean enough an greedy enough to do thout em. 
there s a deal to be forgive to ignorance say the yellow horse with an ugly look in his blue eye. 
seemin ly yes. or some folk u d ha be kick raound the pasture bout onct a minute sence they come board er no board. 
but what you do not understand if you will excuse me madam be that the whole principle o servitood which include keep an fee start from a radically false basis. an i be proud to say that me an the majority o the horse o kansa think the entire concern should be relegate to the limbo of explode superstition. i say we re too progressive for that. i say we re too enlighten for that. twas good enough s long s we didn t think but naow but naow a new loominary ha arise on the horizon. 
meanin you. say the deacon. 
the horse o kansa be behind me with their multitoodinous thunderin hoof an we say simply but grandly that we take our stand with all four foot on the inalienable right of the horse pure and simple the high tone child o nature feed by the same wavin grass cool by the same ripplin brook yes an warm by the same gen rous sun a fall impartially on the outside an the inside of the pamper machine o the trottin track or the bloat coupe horse o these yere eastern city. be we not the same flesh an blood. 
not by a bushel an a half say the deacon under his breath. grandee never be in kansa. 
my. ain t that elegant though abaout the wavin grass an the ripplin brook. tuck whisper in nip s ear. the gentleman s real convincin i think. 
i say we be the same flesh an blood. be we to be separate horse from horse by the artificial barrier of a trottin record or be we to look down upon each other on the strength o the gift o nature an extry inch below the knee or slightly more powerful quarter. what s the use o them advantage to you. man the oppressor come along an see you re likely an good lookin an grind you to the face o the earth. what for. for his own pleasure. for his own convenience. young an old black an bay white an grey there s no distinction make between u. we re grind up together under the remorseless teeth o the engine of oppression. 
guess his breechin must ha break goin daown hill say the deacon. slippery road maybe an the buggy come onter him an he didn t know nough to hold back. that don t feel like teeth though. maybe he bust a shaft an it prick him. 
an i come to you from kansa wavin the tail o friendship to all an sundry an in the name of the uncounted million o pure mind high tone horse now strugglin towards the light o freedom i say to you rub nose with u in our sacred an holy cause. the power be yourn. without you i say man the oppressor cannot move himself from place to place. without you he cannot reap he cannot sow he cannot plough. 
mighty odd place kansa. say marcus aurelius antoninus. seemin ly they reap in the spring an plough in the fall. guess it s right fer them but twould make me kind giddy. 
the produc s of your untirin industry would rot on the grind if you do not weakly consent to help him. let em rot i say. let him call you to the stable in vain an nevermore. let him shake his ensnarin oat under your nose in vain. let the brahma roost in the buggy an the rat run riot round the reaper. let him walk on his two hind foot till they blame well drop off. win no more soul destroyn race for his pleasure. then an not till then will man the oppressor know where he s at. quit workin fellow sufferer an slave. kick. rear. plunge. lie down on the shaft an woller. smash an destroy. the conflict will be but short an the victory be certain. after that we can press our inalienable right to eight quart o oat a day two good blanket an a fly net an the best o stablin. 
the yellow horse shut his yellow teeth with a triumphant snap. and tuck say with a sigh. seem s if somethin ought to be do. don t seem right somehow oppressin u an all to my way o thinkin. 
say muldoon in a far away and sleepy voice. 
who in vermont s goin to haul de inalienable oat. dey weigh like sam hill an sixty bushel at dat allowance ain t goin to last t ree week here. an dere s de winter hay for five mont s. 
we can settle those minor detail when the great cause be win say the yellow horse. let u return simply but grandly to our inalienable right the right o freedom on these yere verdant hill an no invijjus distinction o track an pedigree. 
what in stable jer call an invijjus distinction. say the deacon stiffly. 
fer one thing bein a bloat pamper trotter jest because you happen to be raise that way an couldn t no more help trottin than eatin. 
do ye know anythin about trotter. say the deacon. 
i ve see em trot. that be enough for me. i don t want to know any more. trottin s immoral. 
waal i ll tell you this much. they don t bloat an they don t pamp much. i don t hold out to be no trotter myself though i be free to say i have hope that way onct. but i do say fer i ve see em train that a trotter don t trot with his foot. he trot with his head. an he doe more work ef you know what that be in a week than you er your sire ever do in all your life. he s everlastingly at it a trotter be. an when he isn t he s studyin haow. you see em trot. much you hev. you be hitch to a rail back o the stand in a buckboard with a soap box nail on the slat an a frowzy buff lo atop while your man peddle rum fer lemonade to little boy a think they be actin manly till you be both run off the track an jail you intoed shufflin sway back wind suckin skate you. 
don t get het up deacon say tweezy quietly. now suh would you consider a fox trot an single foot an rack an pace an amble distinction not worth distinguishin. i assuah you gentleman there be a time befo i be afflict in my hip if you ll pardon me miss tuck when i be quite celebrate in paduky for all those gait. an in my opinion the deacon s co rect when he say that a ho se of any position in society get his gait by his haid an not by his ah limb miss tuck. i reckon i m very little good now but i m rememberin the thing i use to do befo i take to transpo tin real estate with the help an assistance of this gentleman here. he look at muldoon. 
invijjus arterficial hind leg. say the ex carhorse with a grunt of contempt. on de belt line we don t reckon no horse wuth his keep le he kin switch de car off de track run her round on de cobble an dump her in ag in ahead o de truck what s blockin him. dere be a way o swingin yer quarter when de driver say yank her out boy. dat take a year to learn. onct yer git onter it youse kin yank a cable car out a manhole. i don t advertise myself for no circus horse but i know dat trick good than most an dey be good to me in de stable fer i save time on de belt an time s what dey hunt in n york. 
but the simple child o nature the yellow horse begin. 
oh go an unscrew yer splint. you re talkin through yer bandage say muldoon with a horse laugh. dere ain t no loose box for de simple child o nature on de belt line wid de paris comin in an de teutonic goin out an de truck an de coupe s sayin thing an de heavy freight movin down fer de boston boat bout t ree o clock of an august afternoon in de middle of a hot wave when de fat kanucks an western horse drop dead on de block. de simple child o nature have good chase himself inter de water. every man at de end of his line be mad or load or silly an de cop s mad an loaded an silly than de rest. dey all take it out de horse. dere s no wavin brook ner ripplin grass on de belt line. run her out on de cobble wid de spark flyin an stop when de cop slug you on de bone o yer nose. dat s n york. see. 
i be always tell s ciety in noo york be dreffle refine an high tone say tuck. we re lookin to go there one o these day nip an me. 
oh you win t see no belt business where you ll go miss. de man dat want you ll want bad an he ll summer you on long island er at newport wid a winky pinky silver harness an an english coachman. you ll make a star hitch you an yer brother miss. but i guess you win t have no nice smooth bar bite. dey check em an dey bang deir tail an dey bit em de city folk an dey say it s english ye know an dey darsen t cut a horse loose ca se o de cop. n york s no place fer a horse le he s on de belt an can go round wid de boy. wisht i be in de fire department. 
but do you never stop to consider the degradin servitood of it all. say the yellow horse. 
you don t stop on de belt cully. you re stop. an we be all in de servitood business man an horse an jimmy dat sell de paper. guess de passenger weren t out to grass neither by de way dey act. i do my turn an i m none o barnum s crowd. but any horse dat s work on de belt four year don t train wid no simple child o nature not by de whole length o n york. 
but can it be possible that with your experience and at your time of life you do not believe that all horse be free and equal. say the yellow horse. 
not till they re dead muldoon answer quietly. an den it depend on de gross total o button an mucilage dey git out youse at barren island. 
they tell me you re a prominent philosopher. the yellow horse turn to marcus. can you deny a basic and pivotal statement such a this. 
i don t deny anythin say marcus aurelius antoninus cautiously. but ef you ast me i should say twuz more different sort o clip oat of a lie than anythin i ve have my teeth into sence i wuz foal. 
be you a horse. say the yellow horse. 
them that know me best low i be. 
ain t i a horse. 
yep. one kind of. 
then ain t you an me equal. 
how fer kin you go in a day to a load buggy drawin five hundred pound. marcus ask carelessly. 
that ha nothing to do with the case the yellow horse answer excitedly. 
there s nothing i know hez more to do with the case marcus reply. 
kin ye yank a full car out de track ten time in de mornin. say muldoon. 
kin ye go to keene forty two mile in an afternoon with a mate say rick. an turn out bright an early next mornin. 
be there evah any time in your careah suh i be not referrin to the present circumstance but our mutual glorious past when you could carry a pretty girl to market hahnsome an let her knit all the way on account o the smoothness o the motion. say tweezy. 
kin you keep your foot through the west river bridge with the narrer gage comin in on one side an the montreal fly the other an the old bridge teeterin between. say the deacon. kin you put your nose down on the cow catcher of a locomotive when you re waitin at the depot an let em play curfew shall not ring to night with the big brass bell. 
kin you hold back when the brichin break. kin you stop fer order when your nigh hind leg s over your trace an ye feel good of a frosty mornin. say nip who have only learn that trick last winter and think it be the crown of horsely knowledge. 
what s the use o talk in. say tedda gabler scornfully. what kin ye do. 
i rely on my simple right the inalienable right o my unfettered horsehood. an i be proud to say i have never since my first shoe lower myself to obeyin the will o man. 
must ha have a heap o whip break over yer yaller back say tedda. hev ye find it pay any. 
sorrer ha be my portion since the day i be foal. blow an boot an whip an insult injury outrage an oppression. i would not endoor the degradin badge o servitood that connect u with the buggy an the farm wagon. 
it s amazin difficult to draw a buggy thout trace er collar er breast strap er somefin say marcus. a power machine for sawin wood be most the only thing there s no strap to. i ve help saw s much a three cord in an afternoon in a power machine. slep too most o the time i do. but tain t half a interestin ez goin daown taown in the concord. 
concord don t hender you goin to sleep any say nip. my throat lash. d you remember when you lay down in the sharves last week waitin at the piazza. 
pshaw. that didn t hurt the sharves. they wuz good an wide an i lay down keerful. the folk kep me hitch up nigh an hour fore they start. an larfed why they all but lay down themselves with larfin. say boney if you ve get to be hitch to anything that go on wheel you ve get to be hitch with somefin. 
go an jine a circus say muldoon an walk on your hind leg. all de horse dat know too much to work [he pronounce it woik new york fashion] jine de circus. 
i be not sayin anythin again work say the yellow horse. work be the fine thing in the world. 
seem too fine fer some of u tedda snort. 
i only ask that each horse should work for himself an enjoy the profit of his labour. let him work intelligently an not a a machine. 
there ain t no horse that work like a machine marcus begin. 
there s no way o workin that doesn t mean goin to pole er single they never put me in the power machine er under saddle say rick. 
oh shuck. we re talkin same ez we graze say nip raound an raound in circle. rod we hain t hear from you yet an you ve more know how than any span here. 
rod the off horse of the pair have be stand with one hip lift like a tire cow. and you could only tell by the quick flutter of the haw across his eye from time to time that he be pay any attention to the argument. he thrust his jaw out sidewise a his habit be when he pull and change his leg. his voice be hard and heavy and his ear be close to his big plain hambletonian head. 
how old be you. he say to the yellow horse. 
nigh thirteen i guess. 
mean age. ugly age. i m gettin that way myself. how long hev ye be pawin this firefanged stable litter. 
if you mean my principle i ve hold em sence i be three. 
mean age. ugly age. teeth give heap o trouble then. set a colt to actin crazy fer a while. you ve kep it up seemin ly. d ye talk much to your neighbour fer a steady thing. 
i uphold the principle o the cause wherever i be pasture. 
do a heap o good i guess. 
i be proud to say i have teach a few of my companion the principle o freedom an liberty. 
meanin they run away er kick when they get the chanst. 
i be talkin in the abstrac an not in the concrete. my teachin s educate them. 
what a horse specially a young horse hear in the abstrac he s liable to do in the concord. you be handle late i presoom. 
four risin five. 
that s where the trouble begin. driv by a woman like ez not eh. 
not fer long say the yellow horse with a snap of his teeth. 
spill her. 
i heerd she never drive again. 
any childern. 
buckboard full of em. 
men too. 
i have shed conside ble men in my time. 
by kickin. 
any way that come along. fallin back over the dash be a handy a most. 
they must be turr ble afraid o you daown taown. 
they ve send me here to get rid o me. i guess they spend their time talkin over my campaign. 
i wanter know. 
yes sir. now all you gentleman have ask me what i can do. i ll just show you. see them two feller lyin down by the buggy. 
yep. one of em own me. t other break me say rod. 
get em out here in the open an i ll show you something. lemme hide back o you people so s they win t see what i m at. 
meanin ter kill em. rod drawl. there be a shudder of horror through the others. but the yellow horse never notice. 
i ll catch em by the back o the neck an pile drive em a piece. they can suit emselves about livin when i m through with em. 
shouldn t wonder ef they do say rod. the yellow horse have hide himself very cleverly behind the others a they stand in a group and be sway his head close to the grind with a curious scythe like motion look side wise out of his wicked eye. you can never mistake a man eater get ready to knock a man down. we have have one to pasture the year before. 
see that. say my companion turn over on the pine needle. nice for a woman walk cross lot wouldn t it be. 
bring em out. say the yellow horse hunch his sharp back. there s no chance among them tall tree. bring out the oh. ouch. 
it be a right and leave kick from muldoon. i have no idea that the old car horse could lift so quickly. both blow catch the yellow horse full and fair in the rib and knock the breath out of him. 
what s that for. he say angrily when he recover himself. but i notice he do not draw any near to muldoon than be necessary. 
muldoon never answer but discourse to himself in the whine grunt that he us when he be go down hill in front of a heavy load. we call it sing. but i think it s something much bad really. the yellow horse bluster and squeal a little and at last say that if it be a horse fly that have sting muldoon he would accept an apology. 
you ll get it say muldoon in de sweet by and bye all de apology you ve any use for. excuse me interruptin you mr. rod but i m like tweezy i ve a southern drawback in me hind leg. 
naow i want you all here to take notice an you ll learn something rod go on. this yaller back skate come to our pastur. 
not havin pay his board put in tedda. 
not havin earn his board an talk smooth to u abaout ripplin brook an wavin grass an his high tone pure souled horsehood which don t hender him sheddin woman an childern an fallin over the dash onter men. you hear his talk an you think it mighty fine some o you. 
tuck look guilty here but she do not say anything. 
bite by bite he go on ez you have hear. 
i be talkin in the abstrac say the yellow horse in an alter voice. 
abstrac be switch. ez i ve say it s this yer blame abstrac business that make the young un cut up in the concord. an abstrac or no abstrac he crep on an on till he come to killin plain an straight killin them a never do him no harm jest beca se they own horse. 
an know how to manage em say tedda. that make it bad. 
waal he didn t kill em anyway say marcus. he d ha be half kill ef he have try. 
make no differ rod answer. he mean to. an ef he hadn t s pose we want the back pasture turn into a biffin grind on our only day er rest. s pose we want our men walkin round with bit er lead pipe an a twitch an their hand full o stone to throw at u same s if we wuz hog er hooky keows. more n that leavin out tedda here an i guess it s more her maouth than her manner stand in her light there ain t a horse on this farm that ain t a woman s horse an proud of it. an this yer bogspavined kansa sunflower go up an daown the length o the country trade off an trade on boastin a he s shed woman an childern. i don t say a a woman in a buggy ain t a fool. i don t say a she ain t the lastin est kind er fool ner i don t say a child ain t bad spattin the line an standin up an hollerin but i do say tain t none of our business to shed em daown the road. 
we don t say the deacon. the baby try to git some o my tail for a sooveneer last fall when i be up to the haouse an i didn t kick. boney s talk ain t goin to hurt u any. we ain t colt. 
thet s what you think bimeby you git into a tight corner lection day er valley fair like s not daown taown when you re all het an lathery an pester with fly an thirsty an sick o bein work in an aout tween buggy. then somethin whisper inside o your winker bringin up all that talk abaout servitood an inalienable truck an sech like an jest then a militia gun go off. er your wheel hit an waal you re only another horse ez can t be trust. i ve be there time an again. boy fer i ve see you all buy er break on my solemn repitation fer a three minute clip i ain t givin you no bran mash o my own fixin. i m tellin you my experience an i ve have ez heavy a load an ez high a check s any horse here. i wuz bear with a splint on my near fore ez big s a walnut an the cuss three corner hambletonian temper that sour up an curdle daown ez you git old. i ve favour my splint. even little rick he don t know what it s cost me to keep my end up sometimes. an i ve fit my temper in stall an harness hitch up an at pasture till the sweat trickle off my hoof an they think i wuz off condition an drench me. 
when my affliction come say tweezy gently i be very near to losin my manner. allow me to extend to you my sympathy suh. 
rick say nothing but he look at rod curiously. rick be a sunny temper child who never bear malice and i don t think he quite understand. he get his temper from his mother a a horse should. 
i ve be there too rod say tedda. open confession s good for the soul an all monroe county know i ve have my experriences. 
but if you will excuse me suh that pusson tweezy look unspeakable thing at the yellow horse that pusson who ha insult our intelligence come from kansa. an what a ho se of his position an kansa at that say cannot by any stretch of the halter concern gentleman of our position. there s no shadow of equal ty suh not even for one kick. he s beneath our contempt. 
let him talk say marcus. it s always interestin to know what another horse think. it don t tech u. 
an he talk so too say tuck. i ve never hear anythin so smart for a long time. 
again rod stick out his jaw sidewise and go on slowly a though he be slug on a plain bite at the end of a thirty mile drive. 
i want all you here ter understand thet ther ain t no kansa ner no kentucky ner yet no vermont in our business. there s jest two kind o horse in the unite state them ez can an will do their work after bein properly break an handle an them a win t. i m sick an tire o this everlastin tail switchin an wickerin abaout one state er another. a horse kin be proud o his state an swap lie abaout it in stall or when he s hitch to a block ef he keers to put in fly time that way. but he hain t no right to let that pride o hisn interfere with his work ner to make it an excuse fer claimin he s different. that s colt talk an don t you fergit it tweezy. an marcus you remember that hem a philosopher an anxious to save trouble fer you eat don t excuse you from jumpin with all your foot on a slack jaw crazy clay bank like boney here. it s leavin em alone that give em their chance to ruin colt an kill folk. an tuck waal you re a mare anyways but when a horse come along an cover up all his talk o killin with ripplin brook an wavin grass an eight quart of oat a day free after killn his man don t you be run away with by his yap. you re too young an too nervous. 
i ll i ll have nervous prostration sure ef there s a fight here say tuck who saw what be in rod s eye. i m i m that sympathetic i d run away clear to next caounty. 
yep. i know that kind o sympathy. jest last long enough to start a fuss an then light aout to make new trouble. i hain t be ten year in harness fer nuthin. naow we re goin to keep school with boney fer a spell. 
say look a here you ain t goin to hurt me be you. remember i belong to a man in town cry the yellow horse uneasily. muldoon keep behind him so that he could not run away. 
i know it. there must be some pore delooded fool in this state hez a right to the loose end o your hitchin strap. i m blame sorry fer him but he shall hev his right when we re through with you say rod. 
if it s all the same gentleman i d ruther change pasture. guess i ll do it now. 
can t always have your druthers. guess you win t say rod. 
but look a here. all of you ain t so blame unfriendly to a strange. s pose we count nose. 
what in vermont fer. say rod put up his eyebrow. the idea of settle a question by count nose be the very last thing that ever enter the head of a well break horse. 
to see how many s on my side. here s miss tuck anyway. an colonel tweezy yonder s neutral. an judge marcus an i guess the reverend [the yellow horse mean the deacon] might see that i have my right. he s the likeliest lookin trotter i ve ever set eye on. pshaw. boy. you ain t goin to pound me be you. why we ve go round in pasture all colt together this month o sunday hain t we a friendly a could be. there ain t a horse alive i don t care who he be ha a high opinion o you mr. rod than i have. let s do it fair an true an above the exe. let s count nose same s they do in kansa. here he drop his voice a little and turn to marcus. say judge there s some green food i know back o the brook no one hain t touch yet. after this little fracas be fix up you an me ll make up a party an tend to it. 
marcus do not answer for a long time then he say. there s a pup up to the haouse bout eight week old. he ll yap till he git a lickin an when he see it comin he lie on his back an yowl. but he don t go through no cirkituous nose countin first. i ve see a noo light sence rod speak. you ll good stand up to what s serve. i m goin to philosophise all over your carcass. 
i m goin to do yer up in brown paper say muldoon. i can fit you on apology. 
hold on. ef we all biff you now these same men you ve be so dead anxious to kill u d call u off. guess we ll wait till they go back to the haouse an you ll have time to think cool an quiet say rod. 
have you no respec whatever fer the dignity o our common horsehood. the yellow horse squeal. 
nary respec onless the horse kin do something. america s pave with the kind er horse you be jist plain yaller dog horse waitin ter be whip inter shape. we call em yearling an colt when they re young. when they re age we pound em in this pastur. horse sonny be what you start from. we know all about horse here an he ain t any high tone pure souled child o nature. horse plain horse same ez you be chock full o trick an meanness an cussedness an shirkin s an monkey shine which he s take over from his sire an his dam an thicken up with his own special fancy in the way o goin crook. thet s horse an thet s about his dignity an the size of his soul fore he s be break an rawhided a piece. now we ain t goin to give ornery unswitched horse that hain t do nawthin wuth a quart of oat sence he wuz foal pet name that would be good enough fer nancy hank or alix or directum who hev. don t you try to back off acrost them rock. wait where you be. ef i let my hambletonian temper git the good o me i d frazzle you out fine than rye straw inside o three minute you woman scarin kid killin dash breakin unbroke unshod ungaited pastur hoggin saw back shark mouth hair trunk throw in in trade son of a bronco an a sewin machine. 
i think we d good get home i say to my companion when rod have finish. and we climb into the coupe tedda whinny a we bump over the ledge. well i m dreffle sorry i can t stay fer the sociable. but i hope an trust my friend ll take a ticket fer me. 
bet your natchul. say muldoon cheerfully and the horse scatter before u trot into the ravine. 
next morning we send back to the livery stable what be leave of the yellow horse. it seem tire but anxious to go. 
the ship that find herself. 
it be her first voyage and though she be but a cargo steamer of twenty five hundred ton she be the very best of her kind the outcome of forty year of experiment and improvement in framework and machinery. and her designer and owner think a much of her a though she have be the lucania. any one can make a float hotel that will pay expense if he put enough money into the saloon and charge for private bath suite of room and such like. but in these day of competition and low freight every square inch of a cargo boat must be build for cheapness great hold capacity and a certain steady speed. this boat be perhaps two hundred and forty foot long and thirty two foot wide with arrangement that enable her to carry cattle on her main and sheep on her upper deck if she want to. but her great glory be the amount of cargo that she could store away in her hold. her owner they be a very well know scotch firm come round with her from the north where she have be launch and christen and fit to liverpool where she be to take cargo for new york. and the owner s daughter miss frazier go to and fro on the clean deck admire the new paint and the brass work and the patent winch and particularly the strong straight bow over which she have crack a bottle of champagne when she name the steamer the dimbula. it be a beautiful september afternoon and the boat in all her newness she be paint lead colour with a red funnel look very fine indeed. her house flag be fly and her whistle from time to time acknowledge the salute of friendly boat who saw that she be new to the high and narrow sea and wish to make her welcome. 
and now say miss frazier delightedly to the captain she s a real ship isn t she. it seem only the other day father give the order for her and now and now isn t she a beauty. the girl be proud of the firm and talk a though she be the control partner. 
oh she s no so bad the skipper reply cautiously. but i m sayin that it take more than christenin to mak a ship. in the nature o thing miss frazier if ye follow me she s just iron and rivet and plate put into the form of a ship. she ha to find herself yet. 
i think father say she be exceptionally well find. 
so she be say the skipper with a laugh. but it s this way wi ship miss frazier. she s all here but the parrts of her have not learn to work together yet. they ve have no chance. 
the engine be work beautifully. i can hear them. 
yes indeed. but there s more than engine to a ship. every inch of her ye ll understand ha to be liven up and make to work wi it neighbour sweetenin her we call it technically. 
and how will you do it. the girl ask. 
we can no more than drive and steer her and so forth. but if we have rough weather this trip it s likely she ll learn the rest by heart. for a ship ye ll obsairve miss frazier be in no sense a reegid body close at both end. she s a highly complex structure o various an conflictin strain wi tissue that must give an tak accordin to her personal modulus of elasteecity. mr. buchanan the chief engineer be come towards them. i m sayin to miss frazier here that our little dimbula ha to be sweeten yet and nothin but a gale will do it. how s all wi your engine buck. 
well enough true by plumb an rule o course. but there s no spontaneeity yet. he turn to the girl. take my word miss frazier and maybe ye ll comprehend late. even after a pretty girl s christen a ship it doe not follow that there s such a thing a a ship under the men that work her. 
i be sayin the very same mr. buchanan the skipper interrupt. 
that s more metaphysical than i can follow say miss frazier laugh. 
why so. ye re good scotch an i know your mother s father he be fra dumfries ye ve a vest right in metapheesics miss frazier just a ye have in the dimbula the engineer say. 
eh well we must go down to the deep watters an earn miss frazier her deevidends. will you not come to my cabin for tea. say the skipper. we ll be in dock the night and when you re goin back to glasgie ye can think of u loadin her down an drivin her forth all for your sake. 
in the next few day they stow some four thousand ton dead weight into the dimbula and take her out from liverpool. a soon a she meet the lift of the open water she naturally begin to talk. if you lay your ear to the side of the cabin the next time you be in a steamer you will hear hundred of little voice in every direction thrill and buzz and whisper and pop and gurgle and sob and squeak exactly like a telephone in a thunder storm. wooden ship shriek and growl and grunt but iron vessel throb and quiver through all their hundred of rib and thousand of rivet. the dimbula be very strongly build and every piece of her have a letter or a number or both to describe it. and every piece have be hammer or forge or roll or punch by man and have live in the roar and rattle of the shipyard for month. therefore every piece have it own separate voice in exact proportion to the amount of trouble spend upon it. cast iron a a rule say very little. but mild steel plate and work iron and rib and beam that have be much bend and weld and rivet talk continuously. their conversation of course be not half a wise a our human talk because they be all though they do not know it bind down one to the other in a black darkness where they cannot tell what be happen near them nor what will overtake them next. 
a soon a she have clear the irish coast a sullen grey head old wave of the atlantic climb leisurely over her straight bow and sit down on the steam capstan use for haul up the anchor. now the capstan and the engine that drive it have be newly paint red and green. besides which nobody like be duck. 
don t you do that again the capstan sputter through the teeth of his cog. hi. where s the fellow go. 
the wave have slouch overside with a plop and a chuckle. but plenty more where he come from say a brother wave and go through and over the capstan who be bolt firmly to an iron plate on the iron deck beam below. 
can t you keep still up there. say the deckbeams. what s the matter with you. one minute you weigh twice a much a you ought to and the next you don t. 
it isn t my fault say the capstan. there s a green brute outside that come and hit me on the head. 
tell that to the shipwright. you ve be in position for month and you ve never wriggle like this before. if you aren t careful you ll strain u. 
talk of strain say a low rasp unpleasant voice be any of you fellow you deck beam we mean aware that those exceedingly ugly knee of yours happen to be rivet into our structure ours. 
who might you be. the deck beam inquire. 
oh nobody in particular be the answer. we re only the port and starboard upper deck stringer. and if you persist in heave and hike like this we shall be reluctantly compel to take step. 
now the stringer of the ship be long iron girder so to speak that run lengthways from stern to bow. they keep the iron frame. what be call rib in a wooden ship. in place and also help to hold the end of the deck beam which go from side to side of the ship. stringer always consider themselves most important because they be so long. 
you will take step will you. this be a long echo rumble. it come from the frame score and score of them each one about eighteen inch distant from the next and each rivet to the stringer in four place. we think you will have a certain amount of trouble in that. and thousand and thousand of the little rivet that hold everything together whisper. you will. you will. stop quiver and be quiet. hold on brother. hold on. hot punch. what s that. 
rivet have no teeth so they cannot chatter with fright. but they do their best a a flutter jar sweep along the ship from stern to bow and she shake like a rat in a terrier s mouth. 
an unusually severe pitch for the sea be rise have lift the big throb screw nearly to the surface and it be spin round in a kind of soda water half sea and half air go much fast than be proper because there be no deep water for it to work in. a it sink again the engine and they be triple expansion three cylinder in a row snort through all their three piston. be that a joke you fellow outside. it s an uncommonly poor one. how be we to do our work if you fly off the handle that way. 
i didn t fly off the handle say the screw twirl huskily at the end of the screw shaft. if i have you d have be scrap iron by this time. the sea drop away from under me and i have nothing to catch on to. that s all. 
that s all d you call it. say the thrust block whose business it be to take the push of the screw. for if a screw have nothing to hold it back it would crawl right into the engine room. it be the hold back of the screw action that give the drive to a ship. i know i do my work deep down and out of sight but i warn you i expect justice. all i ask for be bare justice. why can t you push steadily and evenly instead of whiz like a whirligig and make me hot under all my collar. the thrust block have six collar each face with brass and he do not wish to get them heat. 
all the bearing that support the fifty foot of screw shaft a it run to the stern whisper. justice give u justice. 
i can only give you what i can get the screw answer. look out. it s come again. 
he rise with a roar a the dimbula plunge and whack flack whack whack go the engine furiously for they have little to check them. 
i m the noble outcome of human ingenuity mr. buchanan say so squeal the high pressure cylinder. this be simply ridiculous. the piston go up savagely and choke for half the steam behind it be mix with dirty water. help. oiler. fit. stoker. help i m choke it gasp. never in the history of maritime invention ha such a calamity over take one so young and strong. and if i go who s to drive the ship. 
hush. oh hush. whisper the steam who of course have be to sea many time before. he use to spend his leisure ashore in a cloud or a gutter or a flower pot or a thunder storm or anywhere else where water be need. that s only a little prim a little carry over a they call it. it ll happen all night on and off. i don t say it s nice but it s the best we can do under the circumstance. 
what difference can circumstance make. i m here to do my work on clean dry steam. blow circumstance. the cylinder roar. 
the circumstance will attend to the blow. i ve work on the north atlantic run a good many time it s go to be rough before morning. 
it isn t distressingly calm now say the extra strong frame they be call web frame in the engine room. there s an upward thrust that we don t understand and there s a twist that be very bad for our bracket and diamond plate and there s a sort of west northwesterly pull that follow the twist which seriously annoy u. we mention this because we happen to cost a good deal of money and we feel sure that the owner would not approve of our be treat in this frivolous way. 
i m afraid the matter be out of owner s hand for the present say the steam slip into the condenser. you re leave to your own device till the weather better. 
i wouldn t mind the weather say a flat bass voice below. it s this confound cargo that s break my heart. i m the garboard strake and i m twice a thick a most of the others and i ought to know something. 
the garboard strake be the low plate in the bottom of a ship and the dimbula s garboard strake be nearly three quarter of an inch mild steel. 
the sea push me up in a way i should never have expect the strake grunt and the cargo push me down and between the two i don t know what i m suppose to do. 
when in doubt hold on rumble the steam make head in the boiler. 
yes. but there s only dark and cold and hurry down here. and how do i know whether the other plate be do their duty. those bulwark plate up above i ve hear ain t more than five sixteenth of an inch thick scandalous i call it. 
i agree with you say a huge web frame by the main cargo hatch. he be deep and thick than all the others and curve half way across the ship in the shape of half an arch to support the deck where deck beam would have be in the way of cargo come up and down. i work entirely unsupported and i observe that i be the sole strength of this vessel so far a my vision extend. the responsibility i assure you be enormous. i believe the money value of the cargo be over one hundred and fifty thousand pound. think of that. 
and every pound of it be dependent on my personal exertion. here speak a sea valve that communicate directly with the water outside and be seat not very far from the garboard strake. i rejoice to think that i be a prince hyde valve with best para rubber facing. five patent cover me i mention this without pride five separate and several patent each one fine than the other. at present i be screw fast. should i open you would immediately be swamp. this be incontrovertible. 
patent thing always use the long word they can. it be a trick that they pick up from their inventor. 
that s news say a big centrifugal bilge pump. i have an idea that you be employ to clean deck and thing with. at least i ve use you for that more than once. i forget the precise number in thousand of gallon which i be guarantee to throw per hour. but i assure you my complain friend that there be not the least danger. i alone be capable of clear any water that may find it way here. by my big delivery we pitch then. 
the sea be get up in workmanlike style. it be a dead westerly gale blow from under a rag open of green sky narrow on all side by fat grey cloud. and the wind bite like pincer a it fret the spray into lacework on the flank of the wave. 
i tell you what it be the foremast telephone down it wire stay. i m up here and i can take a dispassionate view of thing. there s an organise conspiracy against u. i m sure of it because every single one of these wave be head directly for our bow. the whole sea be concern in it and so s the wind. it s awful. 
what s awful. say a wave drown the capstan for the hundredth time. 
this organise conspiracy on your part the capstan gurgle take his cue from the mast. organise bubble and spindrift. there ha be a depression in the gulf of mexico. excuse me. he leap overside. but his friend take up the tale one after another. 
which ha advance that wave heave green water over the funnel. 
a far a cape hatteras he drench the bridge. 
and be now go out to sea to sea to sea. the third go out in three surge make a clean sweep of a boat which turn bottom up and sink in the darken trough alongside while the break fall whip the davit. 
that s all there be to it seethe the white water roar through the scupper. there s no animus in our proceeding. we re only meteorological corollary. 
be it go to get any bad. say the bow anchor chain down to the deck where he could only breathe once in five minute. 
not know can t say. wind may blow a bite by midnight. thank awfully. good bye. 
the wave that speak so politely have travel some distance aft and find itself all mix up on the deck amidships which be a well deck sink between high bulwark. one of the bulwark plate which be hang on hinge to open outward have swing out and pass the bulk of the water back to the sea again with a clean smack. 
evidently that s what i m make for say the plate close again with a sputter of pride. oh no you don t my friend. the top of a wave be try to get in from the outside but a the plate do not open in that direction the defeat water spurt back. 
not bad for five sixteenth of an inch say the bulwark plate. my work i see be lay down for the night. and it begin open and shut a it be design to do with the motion of the ship. 
we be not what you might call idle groan all the frame together a the dimbula climb a big wave lay on her side at the top and shoot into the next hollow twist in the descent. a huge swell push up exactly under her middle and her bow and stern hang free with nothing to support them. then one joke wave catch her up at the bow and another at the stern while the rest of the water slink away from under her just to see how she would like it. so she be hold up at her two end only and the weight of the cargo and the machinery fell on the groan iron keel and bilge stringer. 
ease off. ease off. there. roar the garboard strake. i want one eighth of an inch fair play. d you hear me you rivet. 
ease off. ease off. cry the bilge stringer. don t hold u so tight to the frame. 
ease off. grunt the deck beam a the dimbula roll fearfully. you ve cramp our knee into the stringer and we can t move. ease off. you flat head little nuisance. 
then two converge sea hit the bow one on each side and fell away in torrent of stream thunder. 
ease off. shout the forward collision bulkhead. i want to crumple up but i m stiffen in every direction. ease off. you dirty little forge filing. let me breathe. 
all the hundred of plate that be rivet to the frame and make the outside skin of every steamer echo the call for each plate want to shift and creep a little and each plate accord to it position complain against the rivet. 
we can t help it. we can t help it. they murmur in reply. we re put here to hold you and we re go to do it. you never pull u twice in the same direction. if you d say what you be go to do next we d try to meet your view. 
a far a i could feel say the upper deck plank and that be four inch thick every single iron near me be push or pull in opposite direction. now what s the sense of that. my friend let u all pull together. 
pull any way you please roar the funnel so long a you don t try your experiment on me. i need fourteen wire rope all pull in different direction to hold me steady. isn t that so. 
we believe you my boy. whistle the funnel stay through their clinch teeth a they twang in the wind from the top of the funnel to the deck. 
nonsense. we must all pull together the deck repeat. pull lengthways. 
very good say the stringer. then stop push sideways when you get wet. be content to run gracefully fore and aft and curve in at the end a we do. 
no no curve at the end. a very slight workmanlike curve from side to side with a good grip at each knee and little piece weld on say the deck beam. 
fiddle. cry the iron pillar of the deep dark hold. who ever hear of curve. stand up straight. be a perfectly round column and carry ton of good solid weight like that. there. a big sea smash on the deck above and the pillar stiffen themselves to the load. 
straight up and down be not bad say the frame who run that way in the side of the ship but you must also expand yourselves sideways. expansion be the law of life child. open out. open out. 
come back. say the deck beam savagely a the upward heave of the sea make the frame try to open. come back to your bearing you slack jaw iron. 
rigidity. rigidity. rigidity. thump the engine. absolute unvarying rigidity rigidity. 
you see. whine the rivet in chorus. no two of you will ever pull alike and and you blame it all on u. we only know how to go through a plate and bite down on both side so that it can t and mustn t and sha n t move. 
i ve get one fraction of an inch play at any rate say the garboard strake triumphantly. so he have and all the bottom of the ship felt the easy for it. 
then we re no good sob the bottom rivet. we be order we be order never to give. and we ve give and the sea will come in and we ll all go to the bottom together. first we re blame for everything unpleasant and now we haven t the consolation of have do our work. 
don t say i tell you whisper the steam consolingly. but between you and me and the last cloud i come from it be bind to happen sooner or late. you have to give a fraction and you ve give without know it. now hold on a before. 
what s the use. a few hundred rivet chatter. we ve give we ve give. and the sooner we confess that we can t keep the ship together and go off our little head the easy it will be. no rivet forge can stand this strain. 
no one rivet be ever mean to. share it among you the steam answer. 
the others can have my share. i m go to pull out say a rivet in one of the forward plate. 
if you go others will follow hiss the steam. there s nothing so contagious in a boat a rivet go. why i know a little chap like you he be an eighth of an inch fat though on a steamer to be sure she be only twelve hundred ton now i come to think of it in exactly the same place a you be. he pull out in a bite of a bobble of a sea not half a bad a this and he start all his friend on the same butt strap and the plate open like a furnace door and i have to climb into the near fog bank while the boat go down. 
now that s peculiarly disgraceful say the rivet. fat than me be he and in a steamer not half our tonnage. reedy little peg. i blush for the family sir. he settle himself more firmly than ever in his place and the steam chuckle. 
you see he go on quite gravely a rivet and especially a rivet in your position be really the one indispensable part of the ship. 
the steam do not say that he have whisper the very same thing to every single piece of iron aboard. there be no sense in tell too much. 
and all that while the little dimbula pitch and chop and swing and slew and lay down a though she be go to die and get up a though she have be sting and throw her nose round and round in circle half a dozen time a she dip for the gale be at it bad. it be inky black in spite of the tear white froth on the wave and to top everything the rain begin to fall in sheet so that you could not see your hand before your face. this do not make much difference to the ironwork below but it trouble the foremast a good deal. 
now it s all finish he say dismally. the conspiracy be too strong for u. there be nothing leave but to. 
hurraar. brrrraaah. brrrrrrp. roar the steam through the fog horn till the deck quiver. don t be frighten below. it s only me just throw out a few word in case any one happen to be roll round to night. 
you don t mean to say there s any one except u on the sea in such weather. say the funnel in a husky snuffle. 
score of em say the steam clear it throat. rrrrrraaa. brraaaaa. prrrrp. it s a trifle windy up here. and great boiler. how it rain. 
we re drown say the scupper. they have be do nothing else all night but this steady thrash of rain above them seem to be the end of the world. 
that s all right. we ll be easy in an hour or two. first the wind and then the rain. soon you may make sail again. grrraaaaaah. drrrraaaa. drrrp. i have a notion that the sea be go down already. if it doe you ll learn something about roll. we ve only pitch till now. by the way aren t you chap in the hold a little easy than you be. 
there be just a much groan and strain a ever but it be not so loud or squeaky in tone. and when the ship quiver she do not jar stiffly like a poker hit on the floor but give with a supple little waggle like a perfectly balance golf club. 
we have make a most amaze discovery say the stringer one after another. a discovery that entirely change the situation. we have find for the first time in the history of ship build that the inward pull of the deck beam and the outward thrust of the frame lock u a it be more closely in our place and enable u to endure a strain which be entirely without parallel in the record of marine architecture. 
the steam turn a laugh quickly into a roar up the fog horn. what massive intellect you great stringer have he say softly when he have finish. 
we also begin the deck beam be discoverer and genius. we be of opinion that the support of the hold pillar materially help u. we find that we lock up on them when we be subject to a heavy and singular weight of sea above. 
here the dimbula shoot down a hollow lie almost on her side. right at the bottom with a wrench and a spasm. 
in these case be you aware of this steam. the plat at the bow and particularly at the stern we would also mention the floor beneath u help u to resist any tendency to spring. the frame speak in the solemn awe voice which people use when they have just come across something entirely new for the very first time. 
i m only a poor puffy little flutterer say the steam but i have to stand a good deal of pressure in my business. it s all tremendously interest. tell u some more. you fellow be so strong. 
watch u and you ll see say the bow plate proudly. ready behind there. here s the father and mother of wave come. sit tight rivet all. a great sluice comber thunder by but through the scuffle and confusion the steam could hear the low quick cry of the ironwork a the various strain take them cry like these. easy now easy. now push for all your strength. hold out. give a fraction. hold up. pull in. shove crossway. mind the strain at the end. grip now. bite tight. let the water get away from under and there she go. 
the wave race off into the darkness shout not bad that if it s your first run. and the drench and duck ship throb to the beat of the engine inside her. all three cylinder be white with the salt spray that have come down through the engine room hatch. there be white fur on the canvas bind steam pipe and even the bright work deep below be speckle and soil. but the cylinder have learn to make the most of steam that be half water and be pound along cheerfully. 
how s the noble outcome of human ingenuity hit it. say the steam a he whirl through the engine room. 
nothing for nothing in this world of woe the cylinder answer a though they have be work for century and precious little for seventy five pound head. we ve make two knot this last hour and a quarter. rather humiliate for eight hundred horse power isn t it. 
well it s good than drift astern at any rate. you seem rather le how shall i put it stiff in the back than you be. 
if you d be hammer a we ve be this night you wouldn t be stiff iff iff. either. theoreti retti retti cally of course rigidity be the thing. purrr purr practically there ha to be a little give and take. we find that out by work on our side for five minute at a stretch chch chh. how s the weather. 
sea s go down fast say the steam. 
good business say the high pressure cylinder. whack her up boy. they ve give u five pound more steam. and he begin hum the first bar of say the young obadiah to the old obadiah which a you may have notice be a pet tune among engine not build for high speed. race liner with twin screw sing the turkish patrol and the overture to the bronze horse and madame angot till something go wrong and then they render gounod s funeral march of a marionette with variation. 
you ll learn a song of your own some fine day say the steam a he fly up the fog horn for one last bellow. 
next day the sky clear and the sea drop a little and the dimbula begin to roll from side to side till every inch of iron in her be sick and giddy. but luckily they do not all feel ill at the same time. otherwise she would have open out like a wet paper box. 
the steam whistle warning a he go about his business. it be in this short quick roll and tumble that follow a heavy sea that most of the accident happen for then everything think that the bad be over and go off guard. so he orate and chatter till the beam and frame and floor and stringer and thing have learn how to lock down and lock up on one another and endure this new kind of strain. 
they find ample time to practise for they be sixteen day at sea and it be foul weather till within a hundred mile of new york. the dimbula pick up her pilot and come in cover with salt and red rust. her funnel be dirty grey from top to bottom. two boat have be carry away. three copper ventilator look like hat after a fight with the police. the bridge have a dimple in the middle of it. the house that cover the steam steer gear be split a with hatchet. there be a bill for small repair in the engine room almost a long a the screw shaft. the forward cargo hatch fell into bucket stave when they raise the iron cross bar. and the steam capstan have be badly wrench on it bed. altogether a the skipper say it be a pretty general average. 
but she s soupled he say to mr. buchanan. for all her dead weight she ride like a yacht. ye mind that last blow off the bank i be proud of her buck. 
it s vera good say the chief engineer look along the dishevel deck. now a man judgin superfeecially would say we be a wreck but we know otherwise by experience. 
naturally everything in the dimbula fairly stiffen with pride and the foremast and the forward collision bulkhead who be push creature beg the steam to warn the port of new york of their arrival. tell those big boat all about u they say. they seem to take u quite a a matter of course. 
it be a glorious clear dead calm morning and in single file with le than half a mile between each their band play and their tugboat shout and wave handkerchief be the majestic the paris the touraine the servia the kaiser wilhelm ii and the werkendam all statelily go out to sea. a the dimbula shift her helm to give the great boat clear way the steam. who know far too much to mind make an exhibition of himself now and then. shout. 
oyez. oyez. oyez. prince duke and baron of the high sea. know ye by these present we be the dimbula fifteen day nine hour from liverpool have cross the atlantic with four thousand ton of cargo for the first time in our career. we have not founder. we be here. eer. eer. we be not disable. but we have have a time wholly unparalleled in the annals of ship build. our deck be sweep. we pitch. we roll. we think we be go to die. hi. hi. but we didn t. we wish to give notice that we have come to new york all the way across the atlantic through the bad weather in the world. and we be the dimbula. we be arr ha ha ha r r r. 
the beautiful line of boat sweep by a steadily a the procession of the season. the dimbula hear the majestic say hmph. and the paris grunt how. and the touraine say oui. with a little coquettish flicker of steam. and the servia say haw. and the kaiser and the werkendam say hoch. dutch fashion and that be absolutely all. 
i do my best say the steam gravely but i don t think they be much impress with u somehow. do you. 
it s simply disgust say the bow plate. they might have see what we ve be through. there isn t a ship on the sea that ha suffer a we have be there now. 
well i wouldn t go so far a that say the steam because i ve work on some of those boat and send them through weather quite a bad a the fortnight that we ve have in six day. and some of them be a little over ten thousand ton i believe. now i ve see the majestic for instance duck from her bow to her funnel. and i ve help the arizona i think she be to back off an iceberg she meet with one dark night. and i have to run out of the paris s engine room one day because there be thirty foot of water in it. of course i don t deny the steam shut off suddenly a a tugboat load with a political club and a brass band that have be to see a new york senator off to europe cross their bow go to hoboken. there be a long silence that reach without a break from the cut water to the propeller blade of the dimbula. 
then a new big voice say slowly and thickly a though the owner have just wake up. it s my conviction that i have make a fool of myself. 
the steam know what have happen at once. for when a ship find herself all the talk of the separate piece cease and melt into one voice which be the soul of the ship. 
who be you. he say with a laugh. i be the dimbula of course. i ve never be anything else except that and a fool. 
the tugboat which be do it very best to be run down get away just in time. it band play clashily and brassily a popular but impolite air. 
in the day of old ram be you on. in the day of old ram be you on. in the day of old ram that story have paresis be you on be you on be you on. 
well i m glad you ve find yourself say the steam. to tell the truth i be a little tire of talk to all those rib and stringer. here s quarantine. after that we ll go to our wharf and clean up a little and next month we ll do it all over again. 
the tomb of his ancestor. 
some people will tell you that if there be but a single loaf of bread in all india it would be divide equally between the plowdens the trevors the beadons and the rivett carnacs. that be only one way of say that certain family serve india generation after generation a dolphin follow in line across the open sea. 
let u take a small and obscure case. there ha be at least one representative of the devonshire chinns in or near central india since the day of lieutenant fireworker humphrey chinn of the bombay european regiment who assist at the capture of seringapatam in. alfred elli chinn humphrey s young brother command a regiment of bombay grenadier from to when he saw some mix fight. and in john chinn of the same family we will call him john chinn the first come to light a a level head administrator in time of trouble at a place call mundesur. he die young but leave his mark on the new country and the honourable the board of director of the honourable the east india company embody his virtue in a stately resolution and pay for the expense of his tomb among the satpura hill. 
he be succeed by his son lionel chinn who leave the little old devonshire home just in time to be severely wound in the mutiny. he spend his work life within a hundred and fifty mile of john chinn s grave and rise to the command of a regiment of small wild hill men most of whom have know his father. his son john be bear in the small thatch roof mud wall cantonment which be even to day eighty mile from the near railway in the heart of a scrubby tigerish country. colonel lionel chinn serve thirty year and retire. in the canal his steamer pass the outward bind troop ship carry his son eastward to the family duty. 
the chinns be lucky than most folk because they know exactly what they must do. a clever chinn pass for the bombay civil service and get away to central india where everybody be glad to see him. a dull chinn enter the police department or the wood and forest and sooner or late he too appear in central india and that be what give rise to the say central india be inhabit by bhils mairs and chinns all very much alike. the breed be small bone dark and silent and the stupid of them be good shot. john chinn the second be rather clever but a the eldest son he enter the army accord to chinn tradition. his duty be to abide in his father s regiment for the term of his natural life though the corp be one which most men would have pay heavily to avoid. they be irregular small dark and blackish clothe in rifle green with black leather trimming. and friend call them the wuddars which mean a race of low caste people who dig up rat to eat. but the wuddars do not resent it. they be the only wuddars and their point of pride be these. 
firstly they have few english officer than any native regiment. secondly their subaltern be not mount on parade a be the general rule but walk at the head of their men. a man who can hold his own with the wuddars at their quickstep must be sound in wind and limb. thirdly they be the most pukka shikarries. out and out hunter. in all india. fourthly up to one hundredthly they be the wuddars chinn s irregular bhil levy of the old day but now henceforward and for ever the wuddars. 
no englishman enter their mess except for love or through family usage. the officer talk to their soldier in a tongue not two hundred white folk in india understand. and the men be their child all draw from the bhils who be perhaps the strange of the many strange race in india. they be and at heart be wild men furtive shy full of untold superstition. the race whom we call native of the country find the bhil in possession of the land when they first break into that part of the world thousand of year ago. the book call them pre aryan aboriginal dravidian and so forth. and in other word that be what the bhils call themselves. when a rajput chief whose bard can sing his pedigree backwards for twelve hundred year be set on the throne his investiture be not complete till he ha be mark on the forehead with blood from the vein of a bhil. the rajput say the ceremony ha no mean but the bhil know that it be the last last shadow of his old right a the long ago owner of the soil. 
century of oppression and massacre make the bhil a cruel and half crazy thief and cattle stealer and when the english come he seem to be almost a open to civilisation a the tiger of his own jungle. but john chinn the first father of lionel grandfather of our john go into his country live with him learn his language shoot the deer that steal his poor crop and win his confidence so that some bhils learn to plough and sow while others be coax into the company s service to police their friend. 
when they understand that stand in line do not mean instant execution they accept soldier a a cumbrous but amuse kind of sport and be zealous to keep the wild bhils under control. that be the thin edge of the wedge. john chinn the first give them write promise that if they be good from a certain date the government would overlook previous offence. and since john chinn be never know to break his word he promise once to hang a bhil locally esteem invulnerable and hang him in front of his tribe for seven prove murder the bhils settle down a steadily a they know how. it be slow unseen work of the sort that be be do all over india to day. and though john chinn s only reward come a i have say in the shape of a grave at government expense the little people of the hill never forget him. 
colonel lionel chinn know and love them too and they be very fairly civilise for bhils before his service end. many of them could hardly be distinguish from low caste hindoo farmer. but in the south where john chinn the first be bury the wild still cling to the satpura range cherish a legend that some day jan chinn a they call him would return to his own. in the mean time they mistrust the white man and his way. the least excitement would stampede them plunder at random and now and then kill. but if they be handle discreetly they grieve like child and promise never to do it again. 
the bhils of the regiment the uniform men be virtuous in many way but they need humour. they felt bore and homesick unless take after tiger a beater. and their cold blood dare all wuddars shoot tiger on foot. it be their caste mark make even the officer wonder. they would follow up a wound tiger a unconcernedly a though it be a sparrow with a break wing. and this through a country full of cave and rift and pit where a wild beast could hold a dozen men at his mercy. now and then some little man be bring to barrack with his head smash in or his rib tear away. but his companion never learn caution. they content themselves with settle the tiger. 
young john chinn be decant at the verandah of the wuddars lonely mess house from the back seat of a two wheel cart his gun case cascade all round him. the slender little hookey nose boy look forlorn a a stray goat when he slap the white dust off his knee and the cart jolt down the glare road. but in his heart he be content. after all this be the place where he have be bear and thing be not much change since he have be send to england a child fifteen year ago. 
there be a few new building but the air and the smell and the sunshine be the same. and the little green men who cross the parade grind look very familiar. three week ago john chinn would have say he do not remember a word of the bhil tongue but at the mess door he find his lip move in sentence that he do not understand bit of old nursery rhyme and tail end of such order a his father use to give the men. 
the colonel watch him come up the step and laugh. 
look. he say to the major. no need to ask the young un s breed. he s a pukka chinn. might be his father in the fifty over again. 
hope he ll shoot a straight say the major. he s bring enough ironmongery with him. 
wouldn t be a chinn if he didn t. watch him blowin his nose. regular chinn beak. flourish his handkerchief like his father. it s the second edition line for line. 
fairy tale by jove. say the major peer through the slat of the jalousie. if he s the lawful heir he ll. now old chinn could no more pas that chick without fiddle with it than. 
his son. say the colonel jump up. 
well i be blow. say the major. the boy s eye have be catch by a split reed screen that hang on a slew between the veranda pillar and mechanically he have tweak the edge to set it level. old chinn have swear three time a day at that screen for many year. he could never get it to his satisfaction. 
his son enter the anteroom in the middle of a fivefold silence. they make him welcome for his father s sake and a they take stock of him for his own. he be ridiculously like the portrait of the colonel on the wall and when he have wash a little of the dust from his throat he go to his quarter with the old man s short noiseless jungle step. 
so much for heredity say the major. that come of four generation among the bhils. 
and the men know it say a wing officer. they ve be wait for this youth with their tongue hang out. i be persuade that unless he absolutely beat em over the head they ll lie down by company and worship him. 
nothin like havin a father before you say the major. i m a parvenu with my chap. i ve only be twenty year in the regiment and my revere parent he be a simple squire. there s no get at the bottom of a bhil s mind. now why be the superior bearer that young chinn bring with him flee across country with his bundle. he step into the verandah and shout after the man a typical new join subaltern s servant who speak english and cheat in proportion. 
what be it. he call. 
plenty bad man here. i go sar be the reply. have take sahib s key and say will shoot. 
doocid lucid doocid convincin. how those up country thief can leg it. he ha be badly frighten by some one. the major stroll to his quarter to dress for mess. 
young chinn walk like a man in a dream have fetch a compass round the entire cantonment before go to his own tiny cottage. the captain s quarter in which he have be bear delay him for a little. then he look at the well on the parade grind where he have sit of evening with his nurse and at the ten by fourteen church where the officer go to service if a chaplain of any official creed happen to come along. it seem very small a compare with the gigantic building he use to stare up at but it be the same place. 
from time to time he pass a knot of silent soldier who salute. they might have be the very men who have carry him on their back when he be in his first knickerbockers. a faint light burn in his room and a he enter hand clasp his foot and a voice murmur from the floor. 
who be it. say young chinn not know he speak in the bhil tongue. 
i bore you in my arm sahib when i be a strong man and you be a small one cry cry cry. i be your servant a i be your father s before you. we be all your servant. 
young chinn could not trust himself to reply and the voice go on. 
i have take your key from that fat foreigner and send him away. and the stud be in the shirt for mess. who should know if i do not know. and so the baby ha become a man and forget his nurse. but my nephew shall make a good servant or i will beat him twice a day. 
then there rise up with a rattle a straight a a bhil arrow a little white haired wizened ape of a man with medal and order on his tunic stammer salute and tremble. behind him a young and wiry bhil in uniform be take the tree out of chinn s mess boot. 
chinn s eye be full of tear. the old man hold out his key. 
foreigner be bad people. he will never come back again. we be all servant of your father s son. ha the sahib forget who take him to see the trap tiger in the village across the river when his mother be so frighten and he be so brave. 
the scene come back to chinn in great magic lantern flash. bukta. he cry. and all in a breath. you promise nothing should hurt me. be it bukta. 
the man be at his foot a second time. he ha not forget. he remember his own people a his father remember. now can i die. but first i will live and show the sahib how to kill tiger. that that yonder be my nephew. if he be not a good servant beat him and send him to me and i will surely kill him for now the sahib be with his own people. ai jan haba jan haba. my jan haba. i will stay here and see that this doe his work well. take off his boot fool. sit down upon the bed sahib and let me look. it be jan haba. 
he push forward the hilt of his sword a a sign of service which be an honour pay only to viceroy governor general or to little child whom one love dearly. chinn touch the hilt mechanically with three finger mutter he know not what. it happen to be the old answer of his childhood when bukta in jest call him the little general sahib. 
the major s quarter be opposite chinn s and when he hear his servant gasp with surprise he look across the room. then the major sit on the bed and whistle. for the spectacle of the senior native commission officer of the regiment an unmixed bhil a companion of the order of british india with thirty five year spotless service in the army and a rank among his own people superior to that of many bengal princeling valet the last join subaltern be a little too much for his nerve. 
the throaty bugle blow the mess call that ha a long legend behind it. first a few pierce note like the shriek of beater in a far away cover and next large full and smooth the refrain of the wild song. and oh and oh the green pulse of mundore mundore. 
all little child be in bed when the sahib hear that call last say bukta pass chinn a clean handkerchief. the call bring back memory of his cot under the mosquito net his mother s kiss and the sound of footstep grow faint a he drop asleep among his men. so he hook the dark collar of his new mess jacket and go to dinner like a prince who ha newly inherit his father s crown. 
old bukta swagger forth curl his whisker. he know his own value and no money and no rank within the gift of the government would have induce him to put stud in young officer shirt or to hand them clean tie. yet when he take off his uniform that night and squat among his fellow for a quiet smoke he tell them what he have do and they say that he be entirely right. thereat bukta propound a theory which to a white mind would have seem rave insanity. but the whisper level head little men of war consider it from every point of view and think that there might be a great deal in it. 
at mess under the oil lamp the talk turn a usual to the unfailing subject of shikar big game shoot of every kind and under all sort of condition. young chinn open his eye when he understand that each one of his companion have shoot several tiger in the wuddar style on foot that be make no more of the business than if the brute have be a dog. 
in nine case out of ten say the major a tiger be almost a dangerous a a porcupine. but the tenth time you come home foot first. 
that set all talk and long before midnight chinn s brain be in a whirl with story of tiger man eater and cattle killer each pursue his own business a methodically a clerk in an office. new tiger that have lately come into such and such a district. and old friendly beast of great cunning know by nickname in the mess such a puggy who be lazy with huge paw and mr. malaprop who turn up when you never expect her and make female noise. then they speak of bhil superstition a wide and picturesque field till young chinn hint that they must be pull his leg. 
deed we aren t say a man on his leave. we know all about you. you re a chinn and all that and you ve a sort of vest right here. but if you don t believe what we re tell you what will you do when old bukta begin his story. he know about ghost tiger and tiger that go to a hell of their own. and tiger that walk on their hind foot. and your grandpapa s rid tiger a well. odd he hasn t speak of that yet. 
you know you ve an ancestor bury down satpura way don t you. say the major a chinn smile irresolutely. 
of course i do say chinn who have the chronicle of the book of chinn by heart. it lie in a wear old ledger on the chinese lacquer table behind the piano in the devonshire home and the child be allow to look at it on sunday. 
well i wasn t sure. your revere ancestor my boy accord to the bhils ha a tiger of his own a saddle tiger that he ride round the country whenever he feel incline. i don t call it decent in an ex collector s ghost. but that be what the southern bhils believe. even our men who might be call moderately cool don t care to beat that country if they hear that jan chinn be run about on his tiger. it be suppose to be a cloud animal not stripy but blotchy like a tortoise shell tom cat. no end of a brute it be and a sure sign of war or pestilence or or something. there s a nice family legend for you. 
what s the origin of it d you suppose. say chinn. 
ask the satpura bhils. old jan chinn be a mighty hunter before the lord. perhaps it be the tiger s revenge or perhaps he s huntin em still. you must go to his tomb one of these day and inquire. bukta will probably attend to that. he be ask me before you come whether by any ill luck you have already bag your tiger. if not he be go to enter you under his own wing. of course for you of all men it s imperative. you ll have a first class time with bukta. 
the major be not wrong. bukta keep an anxious eye on young chinn at drill and it be noticeable that the first time the new officer lift up his voice in an order the whole line quiver. even the colonel be take aback for it might have be lionel chinn return from devonshire with a new lease of life. bukta have continue to develop his peculiar theory among his intimate and it be accept a a matter of faith in the line since every word and gesture on young chinn s part so confirm it. 
the old man arrange early that his darling should wipe out the reproach of not have shoot a tiger. but he be not content to take the first or any beast that happen to arrive. in his own village he dispense the high low and middle justice and when his people naked and flutter come to him with word of a beast mark down he bid them send spy to the kill and the water place that he might be sure the quarry be such an one a suit the dignity of such a man. 
three or four time the reckless tracker return most truthfully say that the beast be mangy undersized a tigress wear with nurse or a break toothed old male and bukta would curb young chinn s impatience. 
at last a noble animal be mark down a ten foot cattle killer with a huge roll of loose skin along the belly glossy hide full frilled about the neck whisker frisky and young. he have slay a man in pure sport they say. 
let him be feed quoth bukta and the villager dutifully drive out a cow to amuse him that he might lie up near by. 
prince and potentate have take ship to india and spend great money for the mere glimpse of beast one half a fine a this of bukta s. 
it be not good say he to the colonel when he ask for shoot leave that my colonel s son who may be that my colonel s son should lose his maidenhead on any small jungle beast. that may come after. i have wait long for this which be a tiger. he ha come in from the mair country. in seven day we will return with the skin. 
the mess gnash their teeth enviously. bukta have he choose might have invite them all. but he go out alone with chinn two day in a shoot cart and a day on foot till they come to a rocky glary valley with a pool of good water in it. it be a parch day and the boy very naturally strip and go in for a bathe leave bukta by the clothe. a white skin show far against brown jungle and what bukta behold on chinn s back and right shoulder drag him forward step by step with star eyeball. 
i d forget it isn t decent to strip before a man of his position say chinn flounce in the water. how the little devil stare. what be it bukta. the mark. be the whisper answer. 
it be nothing. you know how it be with my people. chinn be annoy. the dull red birth mark on his shoulder something like a conventionalise tartar cloud have slip his memory or he would not have bath. it occur so they say at home in alternate generation appear curiously enough eight or nine year after birth and save that it be part of the chinn inheritance would not be consider pretty. he hurry ashore dress again and go on till they meet two or three bhils who promptly fell on their face. my people grunt bukta not condescend to notice them. and so your people sahib. when i be a young man we be few but not so weak. now we be many but poor stock. a may be remember. how will you shoot him sahib. from a tree. from a shelter which my people shall build. by day or by night. 
on foot and in the daytime say young chinn. 
that be your custom a i have hear say bukta to himself i will get news of him. then you and i will go to him. i will carry one gun. you have yours. there be no need of more. what tiger shall stand against thee. 
he be mark down by a little water hole at the head of a ravine full gorge and half asleep in the may sunlight. he be walk up like a partridge and he turn to do battle for his life. bukta make no motion to raise his rifle but keep his eye on chinn who meet the shatter roar of the charge with a single shoot it seem to him hour a he sight which tear through the throat smash the backbone below the neck and between the shoulder. the brute couch choke and fell and before chinn know well what have happen bukta bid him stay still while he pace the distance between his foot and the ring jaw. 
fifteen say bukta. short pace. no need for a second shoot sahib. he bleed cleanly where he lie and we need not spoil the skin. i say there would be no need of these but they come in case. 
suddenly the side of the ravine be crown with the head of bukta s people a force that could have blow the rib out of the beast have chinn s shoot fail. but their gun be hide and they appear a interest beater some five or six wait the word to skin. bukta watch the life fade from the wild eye lift one hand and turn on his heel. 
no need to show that we care say he. now after this we can kill what we choose. put out your hand sahib. 
chinn obey. it be entirely steady and bukta nod. that also be your custom. my men skin quickly. they will carry the skin to cantonment. will the sahib come to my poor village for the night and perhaps forget that i be his officer. 
but those men the beater. they have work hard and perhaps. 
oh if they skin clumsily we will skin them. they be my people. in the line i be one thing. here i be another. 
this be very true. when bukta doff uniform and revert to the fragmentary dress of his own people he leave his civilisation of drill in the next world. that night after a little talk with his subject he devote to an orgie. and a bhil orgie be a thing not to be safely write about. chinn flush with triumph be in the thick of it but the mean of the mystery be hide. wild folk come and press about his knee with offering. he give his flask to the elder of the village. they grow eloquent and wreathe him about with flower. gift and loan not all seemly be thrust upon him and infernal music roll and madden round red fire while singer sing song of the ancient time and dance peculiar dance. the aboriginal liquor be very potent and chinn be compel to taste them often but unless the stuff have be drug how come he to fall asleep suddenly and to waken late the next day half a march from the village. 
the sahib be very tire. a little before dawn he go to sleep bukta explain. my people carry him here and now it be time we should go back to cantonment. 
the voice smooth and deferential the step steady and silent make it hard to believe that only a few hour before bukta be yell and caper with naked fellow devil of the scrub. 
my people be very please to see the sahib. they will never forget. when next the sahib go out recruit he will go to my people and they will give him a many men a we need. 
chinn keep his own counsel except a to the shoot of the tiger and bukta embroider that tale with a shameless tongue. the skin be certainly one of the fine ever hang up in the mess and the first of many. when bukta could not accompany his boy on shoot trip he take care to put him in good hand and chinn learn more of the mind and desire of the wild bhil in his march and camping by talk at twilight or at wayside pool than an uninstructed man could have come at in a lifetime. 
presently his men in the regiment grow bold to speak of their relative mostly in trouble and to lay case of tribal custom before him. they would say squat in his verandah at twilight after the easy confidential style of the wuddars that such and such a bachelor have run away with such and such a wife at a far off village. now how many cow would chinn sahib consider a just fine. or again if write order come from the government that a bhil be to repair to a wall city of the plain to give evidence in a law court would it be wise to disregard that order. on the other hand if it be obey would the rash voyager return alive. 
but what have i to do with these thing. chinn demand of bukta impatiently. i be a soldier. i do not know the law. 
hoo. law be for fool and white men. give them a large and loud order and they will abide by it. thou art their law. 
but wherefore. 
every trace of expression leave bukta s countenance. the idea might have smite him for the first time. how can i say. he reply. perhaps it be on account of the name. a bhil doe not love strange thing. give them order sahib two three four word at a time such a they can carry away in their head. that be enough. 
chinn give order then valiantly not realise that a word speak in haste before mess become the dread unappealable law of village beyond the smoky hill be in truth no le than the law of jan chinn the first who so the whisper legend run have come back to earth to oversee the third generation in the body and bone of his grandson. 
there could be no sort of doubt in this matter. all the bhils know that jan chinn reincarnate have honour bukta s village with his presence after slay his first in this life tiger. that he have eat and drink with the people a he be use. and bukta must have drug chinn s liquor very deeply upon his back and right shoulder all men have see the same angry red fly cloud that the high god have set on the flesh of jan chinn the first when first he come to the bhil. a concern the foolish white world which ha no eye he be a slim and young officer in the wuddars. but his own people know he be jan chinn who have make the bhil a man. and believe they hasten to carry his word careful never to alter them on the way. 
because the savage and the child who play lonely game have one horror of be laugh at or question the little folk keep their conviction to themselves. and the colonel who think he know his regiment never guess that each one of the six hundred quick foot beady eye rank and file to attention beside their rifle believe serenely and unshakenly that the subaltern on the leave flank of the line be a demi god twice bear tutelary deity of their land and people. the earth god themselves have stamp the incarnation and who would dare to doubt the handiwork of the earth god. 
chinn be practical above all thing saw that his family name serve him well in the line and in camp. his men give no trouble one doe not commit regimental offence with a god in the chair of justice and he be sure of the best beater in the district when he need them. they believe that the protection of jan chinn the first cloak them and be bold in that belief beyond the utmost dare of excite bhils. 
his quarter begin to look like an amateur natural history museum in spite of duplicate head and horn and skull that he send home to devonshire. the people very humanly learn the weak side of their god. it be true he be unbribable but bird skin butterfly beetle and above all news of big game please him. in other respect too he live up to the chinn tradition. he be fever proof. a night s sit out over a tether goat in a damp valley that would have fill the major with a month s malaria have no effect on him. he be a they say salt before he be bear. 
now in the autumn of his second year s service an uneasy rumour creep out of the earth and run about among the bhils. chinn hear nothing of it till a brother officer say across the mess table. your revere ancestor s on the rampage in the satpura country. you d good look him up. 
i don t want to be disrespectful but i m a little sick of my revere ancestor. bukta talk of nothing else. what s the old boy suppose to be do now. 
rid cross country by moonlight on his processional tiger. that s the story. he s be see by about two thousand bhils skip along the top of the satpuras and scar people to death. they believe it devoutly and all the satpura chap be worship away at his shrine tomb i mean like good un. you really ought to go down there. must be a queer thing to see your grandfather treat a a god. 
what make you think there s any truth in the tale. say chinn. 
because all our men deny it. they say they ve never hear of chinn s tiger. now that s a manifest lie because every bhil ha. 
there s only one thing you ve overlook say the colonel thoughtfully. when a local god reappear on earth it s always an excuse for trouble of some kind. and those satpura bhils be about a wild a your grandfather leave them young un. it mean something. 
meanin they may go on the war path. say chinn. 
can t say a yet. shouldn t be surprise a little bite. 
i haven t be tell a syllable. 
prof it all the more. they be keep something back. 
bukta tell me everything too a a rule. now why didn t he tell me that. 
chinn put the question directly to the old man that night and the answer surprise him. 
why should i tell what be well know. yes the cloud tiger be out in the satpura country. 
what do the wild bhils think that it mean. 
they do not know. they wait. sahib what be come. say only one little word and we will be content. 
we. what have tale from the south where the jungly bhils live to do with drill men. 
when jan chinn wake be no time for any bhil to be quiet. 
but he ha not wake bukta. 
sahib the old man s eye be full of tender reproof if he doe not wish to be see why doe he go abroad in the moonlight. we know he be awake but we do not know what he desire. be it a sign for all the bhils or one that concern the satpura folk alone. say one little word sahib that i may carry it to the line and send on to our village. why doe jan chinn ride out. who ha do wrong. be it pestilence. be it murrain. will our child die. be it a sword. remember sahib we be thy people and thy servant and in this life i bore thee in my arm not know. 
bukta ha evidently look on the cup this even chinn think. but if i can do anything to soothe the old chap i must. it s like the mutiny rumour on a small scale. 
he drop into a deep wicker chair over which be throw his first tiger skin and his weight on the cushion flap the claw paw over his shoulder. he lay hold of them mechanically a he speak draw the paint hide cloak fashion about him. 
now will i tell the truth bukta he say lean forward the dry muzzle on his shoulder to invent a specious lie. 
i see that it be the truth be the answer in a shake voice. 
jan chinn go abroad among the satpuras rid on the cloud tiger ye say. be it so. therefore the sign of the wonder be for the satpura bhils only and doe not touch the bhils who plough in the north and east the bhils of the khandesh or any others except the satpura bhils who a we know be wild and foolish. 
it be then a sign for them. good or bad. 
beyond doubt good. for why should jan chinn make evil to those whom he ha make men. the night over yonder be hot. it be ill to lie in one bed over long without turn and jan chinn would look again upon his people. so he rise whistle his cloud tiger and go abroad a little to breathe the cool air. if the satpura bhils keep to their village and do not wander after dark they would not see him. indeed bukta it be no more than that he would see the light again in his own country. send this news south and say that it be my word. 
bukta bow to the floor. good heaven. think chinn and this blink pagan be a first class officer and a straight a a die. i may a well round it off neatly. he go on. 
if the satpura bhils ask the mean of the sign tell them that jan chinn would see how they keep their old promise of good live. perhaps they have plunder. perhaps they mean to disobey the order of the government. perhaps there be a dead man in the jungle. and so jan chinn ha come to see. 
be he then angry. 
bah. be i ever angry with my bhils. i say angry word and threaten many thing. thou knowest bukta. i have see thee smile behind the hand. i know and thou knowest. the bhils be my child. i have say it many time. 
ay. we be thy child say bukta. 
and no otherwise be it with jan chinn my father s father. he would see the land he love and the people once again. it be a good ghost bukta. i say it. go and tell them. and i do hope devoutly he add that it will calm em down. fling back the tiger skin he rise with a long unguarded yawn that show his well keep teeth. 
bukta flee to be receive in the line by a knot of pant inquirer. 
it be true say bukta. he wrap him self in the skin and speak from it. he would see his own country again. the sign be not for u. and indeed he be a young man. how should he lie idle of night. he say his bed be too hot and the air be bad. he go to and fro for the love of night run. he ha say it. 
the grey whisker assembly shudder. 
he say the bhils be his child. ye know he doe not lie. he ha say it to me. 
but what of the satpura bhils. what mean the sign for them. 
nothing. it be only night run a i have say. he ride to see if they obey the government a he teach them to do in his first life. 
and what if they do not. 
he do not say. 
the light go out in chinn s quarter. 
look say bukta. now he go away. none the le it be a good ghost a he ha say. how shall we fear jan chinn who make the bhil a man. his protection be on u. and ye know jan chinn never break a protection speak or write on paper. when he be old and ha find him a wife he will lie in his bed till morning. 
a command officer be generally aware of the regimental state of mind a little before the men. and this be why the colonel say a few day late that some one have be put the fear of god into the wuddars. a he be the only person officially entitle to do this it distress him to see such unanimous virtue. it s too good to last he say. i only wish i could find out what the little chap mean. 
the explanation a it seem to him come at the change of the moon when he receive order to hold himself in readiness to allay any possible excitement among the satpura bhils who be to put it mildly uneasy because a paternal government have send up against them a mahratta state educate vaccinator with lancet lymph and an officially register calf. in the language of state they have manifest a strong objection to all prophylactic measure have forcibly detain the vaccinator and be on the point of neglect or evade their tribal obligation. 
that mean they be in a blue funk same a they be at census time say the colonel. and if we stampede them into the hill we ll never catch em in the first place and in the second they ll whoop off plunder till further order. wonder who the god forsake idiot be who be try to vaccinate a bhil. i know trouble be come. one good thing be that they ll only use local corp and we can knock up something we ll call a campaign and let them down easy. fancy u pot our best beater because they don t want to be vaccinate. they re only crazy with fear. 
don t you think sir say chinn the next day that perhaps you could give me a fortnight s shoot leave. 
desertion in the face of the enemy by jove. the colonel laugh. i might but i d have to antedate it a little because we re warn for service a you might say. however we ll assume that you apply for leave three day ago and be now well on your way south. 
i d like to take bukta with me. 
of course yes. i think that will be the best plan. you ve some kind of hereditary influence with the little chap and they may listen to you when a glimpse of our uniform would drive them wild. you ve never be in that part of the world before have you. take care they don t send you to your family vault in your youth and innocence. i believe you ll be all right if you can get em to listen to you. 
i think so sir. but if if they should accidentally put an make ass of emselves they might you know i hope you ll represent that they be only frighten. there isn t an ounce of real vice in em and i should never forgive myself if any one of of my name get them into trouble. 
the colonel nod but say nothing. 
chinn and bukta depart at once. bukta do not say that ever since the official vaccinator have be drag into the hill by indignant bhils runner after runner have skulk up to the line entreat with forehead in the dust that jan chinn should come and explain this unknown horror that hang over his people. 
the portent of the cloud tiger be now too clear. let jan chinn comfort his own for vain be the help of mortal man. bukta tone down these beseech to a simple request for chinn s presence. nothing would have please the old man good than a rough and tumble campaign against the satpuras whom he a an unmixed bhil despise. but he have a duty to all his nation a jan chinn s interpreter. and he devoutly believe that forty plague would fall on his village if he tamper with that obligation. besides jan chinn know all thing and he ride the cloud tiger. 
they cover thirty mile a day on foot and pony raise the blue wall like line of the satpuras a swiftly a might be. bukta be very silent. 
they begin the steep climb a little after noon but it be near sunset ere they reach the stone platform cling to the side of a rifted jungle cover hill where jan chinn the first be lay a he have desire that he might overlook his people. all india be full of neglect graf that date from the begin of the eighteenth century tomb of forget colonel of corp long since disband. mate of east india men who go on shoot expedition and never come back. factor agent writer and ensign of the honourable the east india company by hundred and thousand and ten of thousand. english folk forget quickly but native have long memory and if a man ha do good in his life it be remember after his death. the weather marble four square tomb of jan chinn be hang about with wild flower and nut packet of wax and honey bottle of native spirit and infamous cigar with buffalo horn and plume of dry grass. at one end be a rude clay image of a white man in the old fashion top hat rid on a bloat tiger. 
bukta salamed reverently a they approach. chinn bar his head and begin to pick out the blur inscription. so far a he could read it run thus word for word and letter for letter. 
to the memory of john chinn esq. late collector of. ithout bloodshed or. error of authority employ. only. can of conciliat. and confiden. accomplish the. tire subjection. a lawless and predatory peop. taching them to. ish government by a conquest over. mind the most perma. and rational mode of domini. governor general and counc. engal have order thi. erect. arted this life aug. ag. 
on the other side of the grave be ancient verse also very wear. a much a chinn could decipher say. 
the savage band forsake their haunt and b. be command. mend. rais check a. st for spoil. and. s. ing hamlet prove his gene. toil. humanit. survey. ights restor. a nation. ield. subdue without a sword. 
for some little time he lean on the tomb think of this dead man of his own blood and of the house in devonshire. then nod to the plain. yes. it s a big work all of it even my little share. he must have be worth know. bukta where be my people. 
not here sahib. no man come here except in full sun. they wait above. let u climb and see. 
but chinn remember the first law of oriental diplomacy in an even voice answer. i have come this far only because the satpura folk be foolish and dare not visit our line. now bid them wait on me here. i be not a servant but the master of bhils. 
i go i go cluck the old man. night be fall and at any moment jan chinn might whistle up his dread steed from the darken scrub. 
now for the first time in a long life bukta disobey a lawful command and desert his leader. for he do not come back but press to the flat table top of the hill and call softly. men stir all about him little tremble men with bow and arrow who have watch the two since noon. 
where be he. whisper one. 
at his own place. he bid you come say bukta. 
now. 
now. 
rather let him loose the cloud tiger upon u. we do not go. 
nor i though i bore him in my arm when he be a child in this his life. wait here till the day. 
but surely he will be angry. 
he will be very angry for he ha nothing to eat. but he ha say to me many time that the bhils be his child. by sunlight i believe this but by moonlight i be not so sure. what folly have ye satpura pig compass that ye should need him at all. 
one come to u in the name of the government with little ghost knife and a magic calf mean to turn u into cattle by the cut off of our arm. we be greatly afraid but we do not kill the man. he be here bind a black man. and we think he come from the west. he say it be an order to cut u all with knife especially the woman and the child. we do not hear that it be an order so we be afraid and keep to our hill. some of our men have take pony and bullock from the plain and others pot and cloth and ear ring. 
be any slay. 
by our men. not yet. but the young men be blow to and fro by many rumour like flame upon a hill. i send runner ask for jan chinn l bad should come to u. it be this fear that he foretell by the sign of the cloud tiger. 
he say it be otherwise say bukta. and he repeat with amplification all that young chinn have tell him at the conference of the wicker chair. 
think you say the questioner at last that the government will lay hand on u. 
not i bukta rejoin. jan chinn will give an order and ye will obey. the rest be between the government and jan chinn. i myself know something of the ghost knife and the scratch. it be a charm against the smallpox. but how it be do i cannot tell. nor need that concern you. 
if he stand by u and before the anger of the government we will most strictly obey jan chinn except except we do not go down to that place to night. 
they could hear young chinn below them shout for bukta. but they cower and sit still expect the cloud tiger. the tomb have be holy grind for nearly half a century. if jan chinn choose to sleep there who have good right. but they would not come within eyeshot of the place till broad day. 
at first chinn be exceedingly angry till it occur to him that bukta most probably have a reason. which indeed he have. and his own dignity might suffer if he yell without answer. he prop himself against the foot of the grave and alternately doze and smoke come through the warm night proud that he be a lawful legitimate fever proof chinn. 
he prepare his plan of action much a his grandfather would have do. and when bukta appear in the morning with a most liberal supply of food say nothing of the overnight desertion. bukta would have be relieve by an outburst of human anger. but chinn finish his victual leisurely and a cheroot ere he make any sign. 
they be very much afraid say bukta who be not too bold himself. it remain only to give order. they say they will obey if thou wilt only stand between them and the government. 
that i know say chinn stroll slowly to the table land. a few of the elder men stand in an irregular semicircle in an open glade. but the ruck of people woman and child be hide in the thicket. they have no desire to face the first anger of jan chinn the first. 
seat himself on a fragment of split rock he smoke his cheroot to the butt hear men breathe hard all about him. then he cry so suddenly that they jump. 
bring the man that be bind. 
a scuffle and a cry be follow by the appearance of a hindoo vaccinator quake with fear bind hand and foot a the bhils of old be accustom to bind their human sacrifice. he be push cautiously before the presence. but young chinn do not look at him. 
i say the man that be bind. be it a jest to bring me one tie like a buffalo. since when could the bhil bind folk at his pleasure. cut. 
half a dozen hasty knife cut away the thong and the man crawl to chinn who pocket his case of lancet and tube of lymph. then sweep the semicircle with one comprehensive forefinger and in the voice of compliment he say clearly and distinctly. pig. 
ai. whisper bukta. now he speak. woe to foolish people. 
i have come on foot from my house. the assembly shudder. to make clear a matter which any other satpura bhil would have see with both eye from a distance. ye know the smallpox who pit and scar your child so that they look like wasp comb. it be an order of the government that whoso be scratch on the arm with these little knife which i hold up be charm against her. all sahib be thus charm and very many hindoo. this be the mark of the charm. look. 
he roll back his sleeve to the armpit and show the white scar of the vaccination mark on his white skin. come all and look. 
a few dare spirit come up and nod their head wisely. there be certainly a mark and they know well what other dread mark be hide by the shirt. merciful be jan chinn that then and there proclaim his godhead. 
now all these thing the man whom ye bind tell you. 
i do a hundred time. but they answer with blow groan the operator chafe his wrist and ankle. 
but be pig ye do not believe. and so come i here to save you first from smallpox next from a great folly of fear and lastly it may be from the rope and the jail. it be no gain to me. it be no pleasure to me. but for the sake of that one who be yonder who make the bhil a man he point down the hill i who be of his blood the son of his son come to turn your people. and i speak the truth a do jan chinn. 
the crowd murmur reverently and men steal out of the thicket by two and three to join it. there be no anger in their god s face. 
these be my order. heaven send they ll take em but i seem to have impress em so far. i myself will stay among you while this man scratch your arm with the knife after the order of the government. in three or it may be five or seven day your arm will swell and itch and burn. that be the power of smallpox fight in your base blood against the order of the government i will therefore stay among you till i see that smallpox be conquer and i will not go away till the men and the woman and the little child show me upon their arm such mark a i have even now show you. i bring with me two very good gun and a man whose name be know among beast and men. we will hunt together i and he and your young men and the others shall eat and lie still. this be my order. 
there be a long pause while victory hang in the balance. a white haired old sinner stand on one uneasy leg pip up. 
there be pony and some few bullock and other thing for which we need a kowl [protection]. they be not take in the way of trade. 
the battle be win and john chinn draw a breath of relief. the young bhils have be raid but if take swiftly all could be put straight. 
i will write a kowl so soon a the pony the bullock and the other thing be count before me and send back whence they come. but first we will put the government mark on such a have not be visit by smallpox. in an undertone to the vaccinator. if you show you be afraid you ll never see poona again my friend. 
there be not sufficient ample supply of vaccination for all this population say the man. they destroy the offeecial calf. 
they win t know the difference. scrape em and give me a couple of lancet. i ll attend to the elder. 
the age diplomat who have demand protection be the first victim. he fell to chinn s hand and dare not cry out. a soon a he be free he drag up a companion and hold him fast and the crisis become a it be a child s sport. for the vaccinate chase the unvaccinated to treatment vow that all the tribe must suffer equally. the woman shriek and the child run howl. but chinn laugh and wave the pink tip lancet. 
it be an honour he cry. tell them bukta how great an honour it be that i myself mark them. nay i cannot mark every one the hindoo must also do his work but i will touch all mark that he make so there will be an equal virtue in them. thus do the rajput stick pig. ho brother with one eye. catch that girl and bring her to me. she need not run away yet for she be not marry and i do not seek her in marriage. she will not come. then she shall be sham by her little brother a fat boy a bold boy. he put out his arm like a soldier. look. he doe not flinch at the blood. some day he shall be in my regiment. and now mother of many we will lightly touch thee for smallpox ha be before u here. it be a true thing indeed that this charm break the power of mata. there will be no more pit face among the satpuras and so ye can ask many cow for each maid to be wed. 
and so on and so on quick pour showman s patter sauce in the bhil hunt proverb and tale of their own brand of coarse humour till the lancet be blunt and both operator wear out. 
but nature be the same the world over the unvaccinated grow jealous of their mark comrade and come near to blow about it. then chinn declare himself a court of justice no long a medical board and make formal inquiry into the late robbery. 
we be the thief of mahadeo say the bhils simply. it be our fate and we be frighten. when we be frighten we always steal. 
simply and directly a child they give in the tale of the plunder all but two bullock and some spirit that have go amissing. these chinn promise to make good out of his own pocket. and ten ringleader be despatch to the lowland with a wonderful document write on the leaf of a note book and address to an assistant district superintendent of police. there be warm calamity in that note a jan chinn warn them but anything be good than loss of liberty. 
arm with this protection the repentant raider go down hill. they have no desire whatever to meet mr. dundas fawne of the police age twenty two and of a cheerful countenance nor do they wish to revisit the scene of their robbery. steer a middle course they run into the camp of the one government chaplain allow to the various irregular corp through a district of some fifteen thousand square mile and stand before him in a cloud of dust. he be by way of be a priest they know and what be more to the point a good sportsman who pay his beater generously. 
when he read chinn s note he laugh which they deem a lucky omen till he call up policeman who tether the pony and the bullock by the pile house gear and lay stern hand upon three of that smile band of the thief of mahadeo. the chaplain himself address them magisterially with a rid whip. that be painful but jan chinn have prophesy it. they submit but would not give up the write protection fear the jail. on their way back they meet mr. d. fawne who have hear about the robbery and be not please. 
certainly say the eldest of the gang when the second interview be at an end certainly jan chinn s protection ha save u our liberty but it be a though there be many beating in one small piece of paper. put it away. 
one climb into a tree and stick the letter into a cleave forty foot from the grind where it could do no harm. warm sore but happy the ten return to jan chinn next day where he sit among uneasy bhils all look at their right arm and all bind under terror of their god s disfavour not to scratch. 
it be a good kowl say the leader. first the chaplain who laugh take away our plunder and beat three of u a be promise. next we meet fawne sahib who frown and ask for the plunder. we speak the truth and so he beat u all one after another and call u choose name. he then give u these two bundle they set down a bottle of whisky and a box of cheroot and we come away. the kowl be leave in a tree because it virtue be that so soon a we show it to a sahib we be beat. 
but for that kowl say jan chinn sternly ye would all have be march to jail with a policeman on either side. ye come now to serve a beater for me. these people be unhappy and we will go hunt till they be well. to night we will make a feast. 
it be write in the chronicle of the satpura bhils together with many other matter not fit for print that through five day after the day that he have put his mark upon them jan chinn the first hunt for his people. and on the five night of those day the tribe be gloriously and entirely drink. jan chinn buy country spirit of an awful strength and slew wild pig and deer beyond count so that if any fell sick they might have two good reason. 
between head and stomach ache they find no time to think of their arm but follow jan chinn obediently through the jungle and with each day s return confidence men woman and child steal away to their village a the little army pass by. they carry news that it be good and right to be scratch with ghost knife. that jan chinn be indeed reincarnate a a god of free food and drink and that of all nation the satpura bhils stand first in his favour if they would only refrain from scratch. henceforward that kindly demi god would be connect in their mind with great gorge and the vaccine and lancet of a paternal government. 
and to morrow i go back to my home say jan chinn to his faithful few whom neither spirit overeat nor swell gland could conquer. it be hard for child and savage to behave reverently at all time to the idol of their make belief. and they have frolic excessively with jan chinn. but the reference to his home cast a gloom on the people. 
and the sahib will not come again. say he who have be vaccinate first. 
that be to be see answer chinn warily. 
nay but come a a white man come a a young man whom we know and love. for a thou alone knowest we be a weak people. if we again saw thy thy horse they be pick up their courage. 
i have no horse. i come on foot with bukta yonder. what be this. 
thou knowest the thing that thou hast choose for a night horse. the little men squirm in fear and awe. 
night horse. bukta what be this last tale of child. 
bukta have be a silent leader in chinn s presence since the night of his desertion and be grateful for a chance fling question. 
they know sahib he whisper. it be the cloud tiger. that that come from the place where thou didst once sleep. it be thy horse a it ha be these three generation. 
my horse. that be a dream of the bhils. 
it be no dream. do dream leave the track of broad pug on earth. why make two face before thy people. they know of the night riding and they and they. 
be afraid and would have them cease. 
bukta nod. if thou hast no further need of him. he be thy horse. 
the thing leaf a trail then. say chinn. 
we have see it. it be like a village road under the tomb. 
can ye find and follow it for me. 
by daylight if one come with u and above all stand near by. 
i will stand close and we will see to it that jan chinn doe not ride any more. 
the bhils shout the last word again and again. 
from chinn s point of view the stalk be nothing more than an ordinary one down hill through split and crannied rock unsafe perhaps if a man do not keep his wit by him but no bad than twenty others he have undertake. yet his men they refuse absolutely to beat and would only trail drip sweat at every move. they show the mark of enormous pug that run always down hill to a few hundred foot below jan chinn s tomb and disappear in a narrow mouth cave. it be an insolently open road a domestic highway beat without think of concealment. 
the beggar might be pay rent and tax chinn mutter ere he ask whether his friend s taste run to cattle or man. 
cattle be the answer. two heifer a week. we drive them for him at the foot of the hill. it be his custom. if we do not he might seek u. 
blackmail and piracy say chinn. i can t say i fancy go into the cave after him. what s to be do. 
the bhils fell back a chinn lodge himself behind a rock with his rifle ready. tiger he know be shy beast but one who have be long cattle feed in this sumptuous style might prove overbold. 
he speak. some one whisper from the rear. he know too. 
well of all the infernal cheek. say chinn. there be an angry growl from the cave a direct challenge. 
come out then chinn shout. come out of that. let s have a look at you. the brute know well enough that there be some connection between brown nude bhils and his weekly allowance. but the white helmet in the sunlight annoy him and he do not approve of the voice that break his rest. lazily a a gorge snake he drag himself out of the cave and stand yawn and blink at the entrance. the sunlight fell upon his flat right side and chinn wonder. never have he see a tiger mark after this fashion. except for his head which be staringly bar he be dapple not strip but dapple like a child s rock horse in rich shade of smoky black on red gold. that portion of his belly and throat which should have be white be orange and his tail and paw be black. 
he look leisurely for some ten second and then deliberately lower his head his chin drop and draw in star intently at the man. the effect of this be to throw forward the round arch of his skull with two broad band across it while below the band glare the unwinking eye. so that head on a he stand he show something like a diabolically scowl pantomime mask. it be a piece of natural mesmerism that he have practise many time on his quarry and though chinn be by no mean a terrify heifer he stand for a while hold by the extraordinary oddity of the attack. the head the body seem to have be pack away behind it the ferocious skull like head creep near to the switch of an angry tail tip in the grass. leave and right the bhils have scatter to let john chinn subdue his own horse. 
my word. he think. he s try to frighten me. and fire between the saucer like eye leap aside upon the shoot. 
a big cough mass reek of carrion bound past him up the hill and he follow discreetly. the tiger make no attempt to turn into the jungle. he be hunt for sight and breath nose up mouth open the tremendous fore leg scatter the gravel in spurt. 
scupper. say john chinn watch the flight. now if he be a partridge he d tower. lung must be full of blood. 
the brute have jerk himself over a boulder and fall out of sight the other side. john chinn look over with a ready barrel. but the red trail lead straight a an arrow even to his grandfather s tomb and there among the smash spirit bottle and the fragment of the mud image the life leave with a flurry and a grunt. 
if my worthy ancestor could see that say john chinn he d have be proud of me. eye low jaw and lung. a very nice shoot. he whistle for bukta a he draw the tape over the stiffen bulk. 
ten six eight by jove. it s nearly eleven call it eleven. fore arm twenty four five seven and a half. a short tail too. three foot one. but what a skin. oh bukta. bukta. the men with the knife swiftly. 
be he beyond question dead. say an awe stricken voice behind a rock. 
that be not the way i kill my first tiger say chinn. i do not think that bukta would run. i have no second gun. 
it it be the cloud tiger say bukta un heed the taunt. 
he be dead. 
whether all the bhils vaccinate and unvaccinated of the satpuras have lie by to see the kill chinn could not say. but the whole hill s flank rustle with little men shout sing and stamp. and yet till he have make the first cut in the splendid skin not a man would take a knife. and when the shadow fell they run from the red stain tomb and no persuasion would bring them back till dawn. so chinn spend a second night in the open guard the carcass from jackal and think about his ancestor. 
he return to the lowland to the triumphal chant of an escort army three hundred strong the mahratta vaccinator close at his elbow and the rudely dry skin a trophy before him. when that army suddenly and noiselessly disappear a quail in high corn he argue he be near civilisation and a turn in the road bring him upon the camp of a wing of his own corp. he leave the skin on a cart tail for the world to see and seek the colonel. 
they re perfectly right he explain earnestly. there isn t an ounce of vice in em. they be only frighten. i ve vaccinate the whole boil and they like it awfully. what be what be we do here sir. 
that s what i m try to find out say the colonel. i don t know yet whether we re a piece of a brigade or a police force. however i think we ll call ourselves a police force. how do you manage to get a bhil vaccinate. 
well sir say chinn i ve be think it over and a far a i can make out i ve get a sort of hereditary influence over em. 
so i know or i wouldn t have send you. but what exactly. 
it s rather rummy. it seem from what i can make out that i m my own grandfather reincarnate and i ve be disturb the peace of the country by rid a pad tiger of night. if i hadn t do that i don t think they d have object to the vaccination. but the two together be more than they could stand. and so sir i ve vaccinate em and shoot my tiger horse a a sort o proof of good faith. you never saw such a skin in your life. 
the colonel tug his moustache think fully. now how the deuce say he be i to include that in my report. 
indeed the official version of the bhils anti vaccination stampede say nothing about lieutenant john chinn his godship. but bukta know and the corp know and every bhil in the satpura hill know. 
and now bukta be zealous that john chinn shall swiftly be wed and impart his power to a son. for if the chinn succession fail and the little bhils be leave to their own imagine there will be fresh trouble in the satpuras. 
the devil and the deep sea. 
all supply very bad and dear and there be no facility for even the small repair. sail direction. 
her nationality be british but you will not find her house flag in the list of our mercantile marine. she be a nine hundred ton iron schooner rig screw cargo boat differ externally in no way from any other tramp of the sea. but it be with steamer a it be with men. there be those who will for a consideration sail extremely close to the wind. and in the present state of a fall world such people and such steamer have their use. from the hour that the aglaia first enter the clyde new shiny and innocent with a quart of cheap champagne trickle down her cut water fate and her owner who be also her captain decree that she should deal with embarrass crown head flee president financier of over extend ability woman to whom change of air be imperative and the less law break power. her career lead her sometimes into the admiralty court where the swear statement of her skipper fill his brother with envy. the mariner cannot tell or act a lie in the face of the sea or mi lead a tempest. but a lawyer have discover he make up for chance withhold when he return to shore an affidavit in either hand. 
the aglaia figure with distinction in the great mackinaw salvage case. it be her first slip from virtue and she learn how to change her name but not her heart and to run across the sea. a the guide light she be very badly want in a south american port for the little matter of enter harbour at full speed collide with a coal hulk and the state s only man of war just a that man of war be go to coal. she put to sea without explanation though three fort fire at her for half an hour. a the julia m gregor she have be concern in pick up from a raft certain gentleman who should have stay in noumea but who prefer make themselves vastly unpleasant to authority in quite another quarter of the world. and a the shah in shah she have be overtake on the high sea indecently full of munition of war by the cruiser of an agitate power at issue with it neighbour. that time she be very nearly sink and her riddle hull give eminent lawyer of two country great profit. after a season she reappear a the martin hunt paint a dull slate colour with pure saffron funnel and boat of robin s egg blue engage in the odessa trade till she be invite. and the invitation could not well be disregard. to keep away from black sea port altogether. 
she have ride through many wave of depression. freight might drop out of sight seaman s union throw spanner and nut at certificate master or stevedore combine till cargo perish on the dock head. but the boat of many name come and go busy alert and inconspicuous always. her skipper make no complaint of hard time and port officer observe that her crew sign and sign again with the regularity of atlantic liner boatswain. her name she change a occasion call. her well pay crew never. and a large percentage of the profit of her voyage be spend with an open hand on her engine room. she never trouble the underwriter and very seldom stop to talk with a signal station for her business be urgent and private. 
but an end come to her trading and she perish in this manner. deep peace brood over europe asia africa america australasia and polynesia. the power deal together more or le honestly. bank pay their depositor to the hour. diamond of price come safely to the hand of their owner. republic rest content with their dictator. diplomat find no one whose presence in the least incommode them. monarch live openly with their lawfully wed wife. it be a though the whole earth have put on it best sunday bib and tucker. and business be very bad for the martin hunt. the great virtuous calm engulf her slate side yellow funnel and all but cast up in another hemisphere the steam whaler haliotis black and rusty with a manure colour funnel a litter of dingy white boat and an enormous stave or furnace for boil blubber on her forward well deck. there could be no doubt that her trip be successful for she lay at several port not too well know and the smoke of her try out insult the beach. 
anon she depart at the speed of the average london four wheeler and enter a semi inland sea warm still and blue which be perhaps the most strictly preserve water in the world. there she stay for a certain time and the great star of those mild sky behold her play pus in the corner among island where whale be never find. all that while she smelt abominably and the smell though fishy be not whalesome. one even calamity descend upon her from the island of pygang watai and she flee while her crew jeer at a fat black and brown gunboat puff far behind. they know to the last revolution the capacity of every boat on those sea that they be anxious to avoid. a british ship with a good conscience doe not a a rule flee from the man of war of a foreign power and it be also consider a breach of etiquette to stop and search british ship at sea. these thing the skipper of the haliotis do not pause to prove but hold on at an inspirit eleven knot an hour till nightfall. one thing only he overlook. 
the power that keep an expensive steam patrol move up and down those water. they have dodge the two regular ship of the station with an ease that breed contempt. have newly bring up a third and a fourteen knot boat with a clean bottom to help the work. and that be why the haliotis drive hard from the east to the west find herself at daylight in such a position that she could not help see an arrangement of four flag a mile and a half behind which read. heave to or take the consequence. 
she have her choice and she take it. the end come when presume on her light draught she try to draw away northward over a friendly shoal. the shell that arrive by way of the chief engineer s cabin be some five inch in diameter with a practice not a burst charge. it have be intend to cross her bow and that be why it knock the frame portrait of the chief engineer s wife and she be a very pretty girl on to the floor splinter his wash hand stand cross the alleyway into the engine room and strike on a grate drop directly in front of the forward engine where it burst neatly fracture both the bolt that hold the connect rod to the forward crank. 
what follow be worth consideration. the forward engine have no more work to do. it release piston rod therefore drive up fiercely with nothing to check it and start most of the nut of the cylinder cover. it come down again the full weight of the steam behind it and the foot of the disconnect connect rod useless a the leg of a man with a sprain ankle fling out to the right and strike the starboard or right hand cast iron support column of the forward engine crack it clean through about six inch above the base and wedge the upper portion outwards three inch towards the ship s side. there the connect rod jam. meantime the after engine be a yet unembarrassed go on with it work and in so do bring round at it next revolution the crank of the forward engine which smite the already jam connect rod bend it and therewith the piston rod cross head the big cross piece that slide up and down so smoothly. 
the cross head jam sideways in the guide and in addition to put further pressure on the already break starboard support column crack the port or leave hand support column in two or three place. there be nothing more that could be make to move the engine bring up all stand with a hiccup that seem to lift the haliotis a foot out of the water. and the engine room staff open every steam outlet that they could find in the confusion arrive on deck somewhat scald but calm. there be a sound below of thing happen a rush click purr grunt rattle noise that do not last for more than a minute. it be the machinery adjust itself on the spur of the moment to a hundred alter condition. mr. wardrop one foot on the upper grate incline his ear sideways and groan. you cannot stop engine work at twelve knot an hour in three second without disorganise them. the haliotis slide forward in a cloud of steam shriek like a wound horse. there be nothing more to do. the five inch shell with a reduce charge have settle the situation. and when you be full all three hold of strictly preserve pearl. when you have clean out the tanna bank the sea horse bank and four other bank from one end to the other of the amanala sea when you have rip out the very heart of a rich government monopoly so that five year will not repair your wrong do you must smile and take what be in store. but the skipper reflect a a launch put out from the man of war that he have be bombard on the high sea with the british flag several of them picturesquely dispose above him and try to find comfort from the think. 
where say the stolid naval lieutenant hoist himself aboard where be those dam pearl. 
they be there beyond evasion. no affidavit could do away with the fearful smell of decay oyster the dive dress and the shell litter hatch. they be there to the value of seventy thousand pound more or le. and every pound poach. 
the man of war be annoy. for she have use up many ton of coal she have strain her tube and bad than all her officer and crew have be hurry. every one on the haliotis be arrest and rearrested several time a each officer come aboard. then they be tell by what they esteem to be the equivalent of a midshipman that they be to consider themselves prisoner and finally be put under arrest. 
it s not the least good say the skipper suavely. you d much good send u a tow. 
be still you be arrest. be the reply. 
where the devil do you expect we be go to escape to. we re helpless. you ve get to tow u into somewhere and explain why you fire on u. mr. wardrop we re helpless aren t we. 
ruin from end to end say the man of machinery. if she roll the forward cylinder will come down and go through her bottom. both column be clean cut through. there s nothing to hold anything up. 
the council of war clank off to see if mr. wardrop s word be true. he warn them that it be a much a a man s life be worth to enter the engine room and they content themselves with a distant inspection through the thin steam. the haliotis lift to the long easy swell and the starboard support column grind a trifle a a man grit his teeth under the knife. the forward cylinder be depend on that unknown force men call the pertinacity of material which now and then balance that other heartbreaking power the perversity of inanimate thing. 
you see. say mr. wardrop hurry them away. the engine aren t worth their price a old iron. 
we tow be the answer. afterwards we shall confiscate. 
the man of war be short hand and do not see the necessity for put a prize crew aboard the haliotis. so she send one sublieutenant whom the skipper keep very drink for he do not wish to make the tow too easy and moreover he have an inconspicuous little rope hang from the stem of his ship. 
then they begin to tow at an average speed of four knot an hour. the haliotis be very hard to move and the gunnery lieutenant who have fire the five inch shell have leisure to think upon consequence. mr. wardrop be the busy man. he borrow all the crew to shore up the cylinder with spar and block from the bottom and side of the ship. it be a day s risky work. but anything be good than drown at the end of a tow rope. and if the forward cylinder have fall it would have make it way to the sea bed and take the haliotis after. 
where be we go to and how long will they tow u. he ask of the skipper. 
god know. and this prize lieutenant s drink. what do you think you can do. 
there s just the bare chance mr. wardrop whisper though no one be within hear there s just the bare chance o repairin her if a man know how. they ve twist the very gut out of her bring her up with that jerk. but i m say that with time and patience there s just the chance o make steam yet. we could do it. 
the skipper s eye brighten. do you mean he begin that she be any good. 
oh no say mr. wardrop. she ll need three thousand pound in repair at the low if she s to take the sea again an that apart from any injury to her structure. she s like a man fall down five pair o stair. we can t tell for month what ha happen. but we know she ll never be good again without a new inside. ye should see the condenser tube an the steam connection to the donkey for two thing only. i m not afraid of them repairin her. i m afraid of them stealin thing. 
they ve fire on u. they ll have to explain that. 
our reputation s not good enough to ask for explanation. let s take what we have and be thankful. ye would not have consul remembern the guidin light an the shah in shah an the aglaia at this most alarmin crisis. we ve be no good than pirate these ten year. under providence we re no bad than thief now. we ve much to be thankful for if we e er get back to her. 
make it your own way then say the skipper. if there s the least chance. 
i ll leave none say mr. wardrop none that they ll dare to take. keep her heavy on the tow for we need time. 
the skipper never interfere with the affair of the engine room and mr. wardrop an artist in his profession turn to and compose a work terrible and forbid. his background be the dark grain side of the engine room. his material the metal of power and strength help out with spar baulk and rope. the man of war tow sullenly and viciously. the haliotis behind her hum like a hive before swarm. with extra and totally unneeded spar her crew block up the space round the forward engine till it resemble a statue in it scaffold and the butt of the shore interfere with every view that a dispassionate eye might wish to take. and that the dispassionate mind might be swiftly shake out of it calm the well sink bolt of the shore be wrap round untidily with loose end of rope give a study effect of most dangerous insecurity. next mr. wardrop take up a collection from the after engine which a you will remember have not be affect in the general wreck. the cylinder escape valve he abolish with a flog hammer. it be difficult in far off port to come by such valve unless like mr. wardrop you keep duplicate in store. at the same time men take off the nut of two of the great hold down bolt that serve to keep the engine in place on their solid bed. an engine violently arrest in mid career may easily jerk off the nut of a hold down bolt and this accident look very natural. 
pass along the tunnel he remove several shaft couple bolt and nut scatter other and ancient piece of iron underfoot. cylinder bolt he cut off to the number of six from the after engine cylinder so that it might match it neighbour and stuff the bilge and fee pump with cotton waste. then he make up a neat bundle of the various odds and end that he have gather from the engine little thing like nut and valve spindle all carefully tallowed and retire with them under the floor of the engine room where he sigh be fat a he pass from manhole to manhole of the double bottom and in a fairly dry submarine compartment hide them. any engineer particularly in an unfriendly port ha a right to keep his spare store where he choose. and the foot of one of the cylinder shore block all entrance into the regular store room even if that have not be already close with steel wedge. in conclusion he disconnect the after engine lay piston and connect rod carefully tallowed where it would be most inconvenient to the casual visitor take out three of the eight collar of the thrust block hide them where only he could find them again fill the boiler by hand wedge the slide door of the coal bunker and rest from his labour. the engine room be a cemetery and it do not need the content of the ash lift through the skylight to make it any bad. 
he invite the skipper to look at the complete work. 
saw ye ever such a forsake wreck a that. say he proudly. it almost fright me to go under those shore. now what d you think they ll do to u. 
wait till we see say the skipper. it ll be bad enough when it come. 
he be not wrong. the pleasant day of tow end all too soon though the haliotis trail behind her a heavily weight jib stay out into the shape of a pocket. and mr. wardrop be no long an artist of imagination but one of seven and twenty prisoner in a prison full of insect. the man of war have tow them to the near port not to the headquarter of the colony and when mr. wardrop saw the dismal little harbour with it rag line of chinese junk it one crazy tug and the boat build shed that under the charge of a philosophical malay represent a dockyard he sigh and shake his head. 
i do well he say. this be the habitation o wrecker an thief. we re at the uttermost end of the earth. think you they ll ever know in england. 
doesn t look like it say the skipper. 
they be march ashore with what they stand up in under a generous escort and be judge accord to the custom of the country which though excellent be a little out of date. there be the pearl. there be the poacher. and there sit a small but hot governor. he consult for a while and then thing begin to move with speed for he do not wish to keep a hungry crew at large on the beach and the man of war have go up the coast. with a wave of his hand a stroke of the pen be not necessary he consign them to the black gang tana the back country and the hand of the law remove them from his sight and the knowledge of men. they be march into the palm and the back country swallow them up all the crew of the haliotis. 
deep peace continue to brood over europe asia africa america australasia and polynesia. 
* * * * *. 
it be the fire that do it. they should have keep their counsel. but when a few thousand foreigner be burst with joy over the fact that a ship under the british flag ha be fire at on the high sea news travel quickly. and when it come out that the pearl steal crew have not be allow access to their consul. there be no consul within a few hundred mile of that lonely port. even the friendly of power ha a right to ask question. the great heart of the british public be beat furiously on account of the performance of a notorious race horse and have not a throb to waste on distant accident. but somewhere deep in the hull of the ship of state there be machinery which more or le accurately take charge of foreign affair. that machinery begin to revolve and who so shock and surprise a the power that have capture the haliotis. it explain that colonial governor and far away men of war be difficult to control and promise that it would most certainly make an example both of the governor and the vessel. a for the crew report to be press into military service in tropical clime it would produce them a soon a possible and it would apologise if necessary. now no apology be need. when one nation apologise to another million of amateur who have no earthly concern with the difficulty hurl themselves into the strife and embarrass the train specialist. it be request that the crew be find if they be still alive they have be eight month beyond knowledge and it be promise that all would be forget. 
the little governor of the little port be please with himself. seven and twenty white men make a very compact force to throw away on a war that have neither begin nor end a jungle and stockade fight that flicker and smoulder through the wet hot year in the hill a hundred mile away and be the heritage of every weary official. he have he think deserve well of his country. and if only some one would buy the unhappy haliotis moor in the harbour below his verandah his cup would be full. he look at the neatly silver lamp that he have take from her cabin and think of much that might be turn to account. but his countryman in that moist climate have no spirit. they would peep into the silent engine room and shake their head. even the men of war would not tow her further up the coast where the governor believe that she could be repair. she be a bad bargain. but her cabin carpet be undeniably beautiful and his wife approve of her mirror. 
three hour late cable be burst round him like shell for though he know it not he be be offer a a sacrifice by the nether to the upper millstone and his superior have no regard for his feeling. he have say the cable grossly exceed his power and fail to report on event. he would therefore at this he cast himself back in his hammock produce the crew of the haliotis. he would send for them and if that fail he would put his dignity on a pony and fetch them himself. he have no conceivable right to make pearl poacher serve in any war. he would be hold responsible. 
next morning the cable wish to know whether he have find the crew of the haliotis. they be to be find free and feed he be to fee them till such time a they could be send to the near english port in a man of war. if you abuse a man long enough in great word flash over the sea bed thing happen. the governor send inland swiftly for his prisoner who be also soldier. and never be a militia regiment more anxious to reduce it strength. no power short of death could make these mad men wear the uniform of their service. they would not fight except with their fellow and it be for that reason the regiment have not go to war but stay in a stockade reason with the new troop. the autumn campaign have be a fiasco but here be the englishman. all the regiment march back to guard them and the hairy enemy arm with blow pipe rejoice in the forest. five of the crew have die but there line up on the governor s verandah two and twenty men mark about the leg with the scar of leech bite. a few of them wear fringe that have once be trouser. the others use loin cloth of gay pattern. and they exist beautifully but simply in the governor s verandah and when he come out they sing at him. when you have lose seventy thousand pound worth of pearl your pay your ship and all your clothe and have live in bondage for five month beyond the faint pretence of civilisation you know what true independence mean for you become the happy of create thing natural man. 
the governor tell the crew that they be evil and they ask for food. when he saw how they eat and when he remember that none of the pearl patrol boat be expect for two month he sigh. but the crew of the haliotis lay down in the verandah and say that they be pensioner of the governor s bounty. a grey beard man fat and bald head his one garment a green and yellow loin cloth saw the haliotis in the harbour and bellow for joy. the men crowd to the verandah rail kick aside the long cane chair. they point gesticulate and argue freely without shame. the militia regiment sit down in the governor s garden. the governor retire to his hammock it be a easy to be kill lie a stand and his woman squeak from the shutter room. 
she sell. say the grey beard man point to the haliotis. he be mr. wardrop. 
no good say the governor shake his head. no one come buy. 
he s take my lamp though say the skipper. he wear one leg of a pair of trouser and his eye wander along the verandah. the governor quail. there be cuddy camp stool and the skipper s write table in plain sight. 
they ve clean her out o course say mr. wardrop. they would. we ll go aboard and take an inventory. see. he wave his hand over the harbour. we live there now. sorry. 
the governor smile a smile of relief. 
he s glad of that say one of the crew reflectively. i shouldn t wonder. 
they flock down to the harbour front the militia regiment clatter behind and embark themselves in what they find it happen to be the governor s boat. then they disappear over the bulwark of the haliotis and the governor pray that they might find occupation inside. 
mr. wardrop s first bind take him to the engine room. and when the others be pat the well remember deck they hear him give god thank that thing be a he have leave them. the wreck engine stand over his head untouched. no inexpert hand have meddle with his shore. the steel wedge of the store room be rust home. and best of all the hundred and sixty ton of good australian coal in the bunker have not diminish. 
i don t understand it say mr. wardrop. any malay know the use o copper. they ought to have cut away the pipe. and with chinese junk come here too. it s a special interposition o providence. 
you think so say the skipper from above. there s only be one thief here and he s clean her out of all my thing anyhow. 
here the skipper speak le than the truth for under the plank of his cabin only to be reach by a chisel lay a little money which never draw any interest his sheet anchor to windward. it be all in clean sovereign that pas current the world over and might have amount to more than a hundred pound. 
he s leave me alone. let s thank god repeat mr. wardrop. 
he s take everything else. look. 
the haliotis except a to her engine room have be systematically and scientifically gutted from one end to the other and there be strong evidence that an unclean guard have camp in the skipper s cabin to regulate that plunder. she lack glass plate crockery cutlery mattress cuddy carpet and chair all boat and her copper ventilator. these thing have be remove with her sail and a much of the wire rig a would not imperil the safety of the mast. 
he must have sell those say the skipper. the other thing be in his house i suppose. 
every fit that could be pry or screw out be go. port starboard and masthead light. teak grating. slide sash of the deckhouse. the captain s chest of drawer with chart and chart table. photograph bracket and look glass. cabin door. rubber cuddy mat. hatch iron. half the funnel stay. cork fender. carpenter s grindstone and tool chest. holystone swab squeegee. all cabin and pantry lamp. galley fitting en bloc. flag and flag locker. clock chronometer. the forward compass and the ship s bell and belfry be among the miss. 
there be great scar mark on the deck plank over which the cargo derrick have be haul. one must have fall by the way for the bulwark rail be smash and bend and the side plate bruise. 
it s the governor say the skipper he s be sell her on the instalment plan. 
let s go up with spanner and shovel and kill em all shout the crew. let s drown him and keep the woman. 
then we ll be shoot by that black and tan regiment our regiment. what s the trouble ashore. they ve camp our regiment on the beach. 
we re cut off. that s all. go and see what they want say mr. wardrop. you ve the trouser. 
in his simple way the governor be a strategist. he do not desire that the crew of the haliotis should come ashore again either singly or in detachment and he propose to turn their steamer into a convict hulk. they would wait he explain this from the quay to the skipper in the barge and they would continue to wait till the man of war come along exactly where they be. if one of them set foot ashore the entire regiment would open fire and he would not scruple to use the two cannon of the town. meantime food would be send daily in a boat under an arm escort. the skipper bare to the waist and row could only grind his teeth. and the governor improve the occasion and revenge himself for the bitter word in the cable by say what he think of the moral and manner of the crew. the barge return to the haliotis in silence and the skipper climb aboard white on the cheek bone and blue about the nostril. 
i know it say mr. wardrop. and they win t give u good food either. we shall have banana morning noon and night an a man can t work on fruit. we know that. 
then the skipper curse mr. wardrop for import frivolous side issue into the conversation. and the crew curse one another and the haliotis the voyage and all that they know or could bring to mind. they sit down in silence on the empty deck and their eye burn in their head. the green harbour water chuckle at them overside. they look at the palm fringe hill inland at the white house above the harbour road at the single tier of native craft by the quay at the stolid soldiery sit round the two cannon and last of all at the blue bar of the horizon. mr. wardrop be bury in think and scratch imaginary line with his untrimmed finger nail on the plank. 
i make no promise he say at last for i can t say what may or may not have happen to them. but here s the ship and here s u. 
there be a little scornful laughter at this and mr. wardrop knit his brow. he recall that in the day when he wear trouser he have be chief engineer of the haliotis. 
harland mackesy noble hay naughton fink o hara trumbull. 
here sir. the instinct of obedience wake to answer the roll call of the engine room. 
below. 
they rise and go. 
captain i ll trouble you for the rest of the men a i want them. we ll get my store out and clear away the shore we don t need and then we ll patch her up. my men will remember that they re in the haliotis under me. 
he go into the engine room and the others star. they be use to the accident of the sea but this be beyond their experience. none who have see the engine room believe that anything short of new engine from end to end could stir the haliotis from her mooring. 
the engine room store be unearth and mr. wardrop s face red with the filth of the bilge and the exertion of travel on his stomach light with joy. the spare gear of the haliotis have be unusually complete and two and twenty men arm with screw jack differential block tackle vice and a forge or so can look kismet between the eye without wink. the crew be order to replace the hold down and shaft bear bolt and return the collar of the thrust block. when they have finish mr. wardrop deliver a lecture on repair compound engine without the aid of the shop and the men sit about on the cold machinery. the cross head jam in the guide leer at them drunkenly but offer no help. they run their finger hopelessly into the crack of the starboard support column and pick at the end of the rope round the shore while mr. wardrop s voice rise and fell echo till the quick tropic night close down over the engine room skylight. 
next morning the work of reconstruction begin. it ha be explain that the foot of the connect rod be force against the foot of the starboard support column which it have crack through and drive outward towards the ship s skin. to all appearance the job be more than hopeless for rod and column seem to have be weld into one. but herein providence smile on them for one moment to hearten them through the weary week ahead. the second engineer more reckless than resourceful strike at random with a cold chisel into the cast iron of the column and a greasy grey flake of metal fly from under the imprison foot of the connect rod while the rod itself fell away slowly and bring up with a thunderous clang somewhere in the dark of the crank pit. the guide plate above be still jam fast in the guide but the first blow have be strike. they spend the rest of the day groom the donkey engine which stand immediately forward of the engine room hatch. it tarpaulin of course have be steal and eight warm month have not improve the work part. further the last die hiccup of the haliotis seem or it might have be the malay from the boat house to have lift the thing bodily on it bolt and set it down inaccurately a regard it steam connection. 
if we only have one single cargo derrick. mr. wardrop sigh. we can take the cylinder cover off by hand if we sweat. but to get the rod out o the piston s not possible unless we use steam. well there ll be steam the morn if there s nothing else. she ll fizzle. 
next morning men from the shore saw the haliotis through a cloud for it be a though the deck smoke. her crew be chase steam through the shake and leaky pipe to it work in the forward donkey engine. and where oakum fail to plug a crack they strip off their loin cloth for lap and swear half boil and mother naked. the donkey engine work at a price the price of constant attention and furious stoke work long enough to allow a wire rope. it be make up of a funnel and a foremast stay. to be lead into the engine room and make fast on the cylinder cover of the forward engine. that rise easily enough and be haul through the skylight and on to the deck many hand assist the doubtful steam. then come the tug of war for it be necessary to get to the piston and the jam piston rod. they remove two of the piston junk ring stud screw in two strong iron eye bolt by way of handle double the wire rope and set half a dozen men to smite with an extemporise batter ram at the end of the piston rod where it peer through the piston while the donkey engine haul upwards on the piston itself. after four hour of this furious work the piston rod suddenly slip and the piston rise with a jerk knock one or two men over into the engine room. but when mr. wardrop declare that the piston have not split they cheer and think nothing of their wound. and the donkey engine be hastily stop. it boiler be nothing to tamper with. 
and day by day their supply reach them by boat. the skipper humble himself once more before the governor and a a concession have leave to get drink water from the malay boat builder on the quay. it be not good drink water but the malay be anxious to supply anything in his power if he be pay for it. 
now when the jaw of the forward engine stand a it be strip and empty they begin to wedge up the shore of the cylinder itself. that work alone fill the good part of three day warm and sticky day when the hand slip and sweat run into the eye. when the last wedge be hammer home there be no long an ounce of weight on the support column. and mr. wardrop rummage the ship for boiler plate three quarter of an inch thick where he could find it. there be not much available but what there be be more than beat gold to him. in one desperate forenoon the entire crew naked and lean hale back more or le into place the starboard support column which a you remember be crack clean through. mr. wardrop find them asleep where they have finish the work and give them a day s rest smile upon them a a father while he draw chalk mark about the crack. they wake to new and more try labour. for over each one of those crack a plate of three quarter inch boiler iron be to be work hot the rivet hole be drill by hand. all that time they be feed on fruit chiefly banana with some sago. 
those be the day when men swoon over the ratchet drill and the hand forge and where they fell they have leave to lie unless their body be in the way of their fellow foot. and so patch upon patch and a patch over all the starboard support column be clout. but when they think all be secure mr. wardrop decree that the noble patchwork would never support work engine. at the best it could only hold the guide bar approximately true he deadweight of the cylinder must be bear by vertical strut. and therefore a gang would repair to the bow and take out with file the big bow anchor davit each of which be some three inch in diameter. they throw hot coal at wardrop and threaten to kill him those who do not weep. they be ready to weep on the least provocation. but he hit them with iron bar heat at the end and they limp forward and the davit come with them when they return. they sleep sixteen hour on the strength of it and in three day two strut be in place bolt from the foot of the starboard support column to the under side of the cylinder. there remain now the port or condenser column which though not so badly crack a it fellow have also be strengthen in four place with boiler plate patch but need strut. they take away the main stanchion of the bridge for that work and crazy with toil do not see till all be in place that the round bar of iron must be flatten from top to bottom to allow the air pump lever to clear them. it be wardrop s oversight and he weep bitterly before the men a he give the order to unbolt the strut and flatten them with hammer and the flame. now the break engine be underpin firmly and they take away the wooden shore from under the cylinder and give them to the rob bridge thank god for even half a day s work on gentle kindly wood instead of the iron that have enter into their soul. eight month in the back country among the leech at a temperature of degree moist be very bad for the nerve. 
they have keep the hard work to the last a boy save latin prose and wear though they be mr. wardrop do not dare to give them rest. the piston rod and connect rod be to be straighten and this be a job for a regular dockyard with every appliance. they fell to it cheer by a little chalk show of work do and time consume which mr. wardrop write up on the engine room bulkhead. fifteen day have go fifteen day of kill labour and there be hope before them. 
it be curious that no man know how the rod be straighten. the crew of the haliotis remember that week very dimly a a fever patient remember the delirium of a long night. there be fire everywhere they say. the whole ship be one consume furnace and the hammer be never still. now there could not have be more than one fire at the most for mr. wardrop distinctly recall that no straighten be do except under his own eye. they remember too that for many year voice give order which they obey with their body but their mind be abroad on all the sea. it seem to them that they stand through day and night slowly slide a bar backwards and forward through a white glow that be part of the ship. they remember an intolerable noise in their burn head from the wall of the stoke hole and they remember be savagely beat by men whose eye seem asleep. when their shift be over they would draw straight line in the air anxiously and repeatedly and would question one another in their sleep cry be she straight. 
at last they do not remember whether this be by day or by night mr. wardrop begin to dance clumsily and weep the while. and they too dance and weep and go to sleep twitch all over. and when they wake men say that the rod be straighten and no one do any work for two day but lay on the deck and eat fruit. mr. wardrop would go below from time to time and pat the two rod where they lay and they hear him sing hymn. 
then his trouble of mind go from him and at the end of the third day s idleness he make a draw in chalk upon the deck with letter of the alphabet at the angle. he point out that though the piston rod be more or le straight the piston rod cross head the thing that have be jam sideways in the guide have be badly strain and have crack the low end of the piston rod. he be go to forge and shrink a work iron collar on the neck of the piston rod where it join the cross head and from the collar he would bolt a y shape piece of iron whose low arm should be bolt into the cross head. if anything more be need they could use up the last of the boiler plate. 
so the forge be light again and men burn their body but hardly felt the pain. the finish connection be not beautiful but it seem strong enough at least a strong a the rest of the machinery. and with that job their labour come to an end. all that remain be to connect up the engine and to get food and water. the skipper and four men deal with the malay boat builder by night chiefly. it be no time to haggle over the price of sago and dry fish. the others stay aboard and replace piston piston rod cylinder cover cross head and bolt with the aid of the faithful donkey engine. the cylinder cover be hardly steam proof and the eye of science might have see in the connect rod a flexure something like that of a christmas tree candle which ha melt and be straighten by hand over a stave but a mr. wardrop say she didn t hit anything. 
a soon a the last bolt be in place men tumble over one another in their anxiety to get to the hand start gear the wheel and worm by which some engine can be move when there be no steam aboard. they nearly wrench off the wheel but it be evident to the blind eye that the engine stir. they do not revolve in their orbit with any enthusiasm a good machine should. indeed they groan not a little. but they move over and come to rest in a way which prove that they still recognise man s hand. then mr. wardrop send his slave into the dark bowel of the engine room and the stoke hole and follow them with a flare lamp. the boiler be sound but would take no harm from a little scale and clean. mr. wardrop would not have any one over zealous for he fear what the next stroke of the tool might show. the le we know about her now say he the good for u all i m thinkin. ye ll understand me when i say that this be in no sense regular engineerin. 
a his raiment when he speak be his grey beard and uncut hair they believe him. they do not ask too much of what they meet but polish and tallowed and scrap it to a false brilliancy. 
a lick of paint would make me easy in my mind say mr. wardrop plaintively. i know half the condenser tube be start. and the propeller shaftin s god know how far out of the true and we ll need a new air pump an the main steam leak like a sieve and there s bad each way i look. but paint s like clothe to a man an ours be near all go. 
the skipper unearth some stale ropy paint of the loathsome green that they use for the galley of sail ship and mr. wardrop spread it abroad lavishly to give the engine self respect. 
his own be return day by day for he wear his loin cloth continuously. but the crew have work under order do not feel a he do. the complete work satisfy mr. wardrop. he would at the last have make shift to run to singapore and go home without vengeance take to show his engine to his brother in the craft. but the others and the captain forbid him. they have not yet recover their self respect. 
it would be safe to make what ye might call a trial trip but beggar mustn t be chooser. an if the engine will go over to the hand gear the probability i m only say it s a probability the chance be that they ll hold up when we put steam on her. 
how long will you take to get steam. say the skipper. 
god know. four hour a day half a week. if i can raise sixty pound i ll not complain. 
be sure of her first. we can t afford to go out half a mile and break down. 
my soul and body man we re one continuous breakdown fore an aft. we might fetch singapore though. 
we ll break down at pygang watai where we can do good be the answer in a voice that do not allow argument. she s my boat and i ve have eight month to think in. 
no man saw the haliotis depart though many hear her. she leave at two in the morning have cut her mooring and it be none of her crew s pleasure that the engine should strike up a thunder half sea over chanty that echo among the hill. mr. wardrop wipe away a tear a he listen to the new song. 
she s gibberin she s just gibberin he whimper. yon s the voice of a maniac. 
and if engine have any soul a their master believe he be quite right. there be outcry and clamour sob and burst of chatter laughter silence where the train ear yearn for the clear note and torture reduplication where there should have be one deep voice. down the screw shaft run murmur and warning while a heart diseased flutter without tell that the propeller need re key. 
how doe she make it. say the skipper. 
she move but but she s breakin my heart. the sooner we re at pygang watai the good. she s mad and we re wake the town. 
be she at all near safe. 
what do i care how safe she be. she s mad. hear that now. to be sure nothing s hittin anything and the bearin s be fairly cool but can ye not hear. 
if she go say the skipper i don t care a curse. and she s my boat too. 
she go trail a fathom of weed behind her. from a slow two knot an hour she crawl up to a triumphant four. anything beyond that make the strut quiver dangerously and fill the engine room with steam. morning show her out of sight of land and there be a visible ripple under her bow. but she complain bitterly in her bowel and a though the noise have call it there shoot along across the purple sea a swift dark proa hawk like and curious which presently range alongside and wish to know if the haliotis be helpless. ship even the steamer of the white men have be know to break down in those water and the honest malay and javanese trader would sometimes aid them in their own peculiar way. but this ship be not full of lady passenger and well dress officer. men white naked and savage swarm down her side some with red hot iron bar and others with large hammer throw themselves upon those innocent inquire stranger and before any man could say what have happen be in full possession of the proa while the lawful owner bob in the water overside. half an hour late the proa s cargo of sago and trepang a well a a doubtful mind compass be in the haliotis. the two huge triangular mat sail with their seventy foot yard and boom have follow the cargo and be be fit to the strip mast of the steamer. 
they rise they swell they fill and the empty steamer visibly lay over a the wind take them. they give her nearly three knot an hour and what good could men ask. but if she have be forlorn before this new purchase make her horrible to see. imagine a respectable charwoman in the tights of a ballet dancer roll drink along the street and you will come to some faint notion of the appearance of that nine hundred ton well deck once schooner rig cargo boat a she stagger under her new help shout and rave across the deep. with steam and sail that marvellous voyage continue. and the bright eye crew look over the rail desolate unkempt unshorn shamelessly clothe beyond the decency. 
at the end of the third week she sight the island of pygang watai whose harbour be the turn point of a pearl sea patrol. here the gun boat stay for a week ere they retrace their line. there be no village at pygang watai. only a stream of water some palm and a harbour safe to rest in till the first violence of the southeast monsoon ha blow itself out. 
they open up the low coral beach with it mound of whitewash coal ready for supply the desert hut for the sailor and the flagless flagstaff. 
next day there be no haliotis only a little proa rock in the warm rain at the mouth of the harbour whose crew watch with hungry eye the smoke of a gunboat on the horizon. 
month afterwards there be a few line in an english newspaper to the effect that some gunboat of some foreign power have break her back at the mouth of some far away harbour by run at full speed into a sink wreck. 
william the conqueror. 
part i. 
i have do one brave thing than all the worthy do. and yet a brave thence doth spring which be to keep that hide. 
the undertake. 
be it officially declare yet. 
they ve go a far a to admit extreme local scarcity and they ve start relief work in one or two district the paper say. 
that mean it will be declare a soon a they can make sure of the men and the roll stock. shouldn t wonder if it be a bad a the famine. 
can t be say scott turn a little in the long cane chair. 
we ve have fifteen anna crop in the north and bombay and bengal report more than they know what to do with. they ll be able to check it before it get out of hand. it will only be local. 
martyn pick the pioneer from the table read through the telegram once more and put up his foot on the chair rest. it be a hot dark breathless even heavy with the smell of the newly water mall. the flower in the club garden be dead and black on their stalk the little lotus pond be a circle of cake mud and the tamarisk tree be white with the dust of week. most of the men be at the band stand in the public garden from the club verandah you could hear the native police band hammer stale waltz or on the polo grind or in the high wall five court hot than a dutch oven. half a dozen groom squat at the head of their pony wait their master return. from time to time a man would ride at a foot pace into the club compound and listlessly loaf over to the whitewash barrack beside the main build. these be suppose to be chamber. men live in them meet the same white face night after night at dinner and draw out their office work till the late possible hour that they might escape that doleful company. 
what be you go to do. say martyn with a yawn. let s have a swim before dinner. 
water s hot. i be at the bath to day. 
play you game o billiards fifty up. 
it s a hundred and five in the hall now. sit still and don t be so abominably energetic. 
a grunt camel swing up to the porch his badge and belt rider fumble a leather pouch. 
kubber kargaz ki yektraaa the man whine hand down the newspaper extra a slip print on one side only and damp from the press. it be pin up on the green baize board between notice of pony for sale and fox terrier miss. 
martyn rise lazily read it and whistle. it s declare. he cry. one two three eight district go under the operation of the famine code ek dum. they ve put jimmy hawkins in charge. 
good business. say scott with the first sign of interest he have show. when in doubt hire a punjabi. i work under jimmy when i first come out and he belong to the punjab. he ha more bundobust than most men. 
jimmy s a jubilee knight now say martyn. he s a good chap even though he be a thrice bear civilian and go to the benight presidency. what unholy name these madras district rejoice in all ungas or rungas or pillays or polliums. 
a dog cart drive up in the dusk and a man enter mop his head. he be editor of the one daily paper at the capital of a province of twenty five million native and a few hundred white men. a his staff be limit to himself and one assistant his office hour run variously from ten to twenty a day. 
hi rain. you re suppose to know everything say martyn stop him. how s this madras scarcity go to turn out. 
no one know a yet. there s a message a long a your arm come in on the telephone. i ve leave my cub to fill it out. madras ha own she can t manage it alone and jimmy seem to have a free hand in get all the men he need. arbuthnot s warn to hold himself in readiness. 
badger arbuthnot. 
the peshawur chap. yes. and the pi wire that elli and clay have be move from the northwest already and they ve take half a dozen bombay men too. it s pukka famine by the look of it. 
they re near the scene of action than we be. but if it come to indent on the punjab this early there s more in this than meet the eye say martyn. 
here to day and go to morrow. didn t come to stay for ever say scott drop one of marryat s novel and rise to his foot. martyn your sister s wait for you. 
a rough grey horse be back and shift at the edge of the verandah where the light of a kerosene lamp fell on a brown calico habit and a white face under a grey felt hat. 
right o. say martyn. i m ready. good come and dine with u if you ve nothing to do scott. william be there any dinner in the house. 
i ll go home and see be the rider s answer. you can drive him over at eight remember. 
scott move leisurely to his room and change into the even dress of the season and the country. spotless white linen from head to foot with a broad silk cummerbund. dinner at the martyns be a decide improvement on the goat mutton twiney tough fowl and tin entree of the club. but it be a great pity that martyn could not afford to send his sister to the hill for the hot weather. a an act district superintendent of police martyn draw the magnificent pay of six hundred depreciate silver rupee a month and his little four room bungalow say just a much. there be the usual blue and white strip jail make rug on the uneven floor. the usual glass stud amritsar phulkaris drape on nail drive into the flake whitewash of the wall. the usual half dozen chair that do not match pick up at sale of dead men s effect. and the usual streak of black grease where the leather punka thong run through the wall. it be a though everything have be unpack the night before to be repacked next morning. not a door in the house be true on it hinge. the little window fifteen foot up be darken with wasp nest and lizard hunt fly between the beam of the wood ceiled roof. but all this be part of scott s life. thus do people live who have such an income. and in a land where each man s pay age and position be print in a book that all may read it be hardly worth while to play at pretence in word or deed. scott count eight year service in the irrigation department and draw eight hundred rupee a month on the understand that if he serve the state faithfully for another twenty two year he could retire on a pension of some four hundred rupee a month. his work life which have be spend chiefly under canvas or in temporary shelter where a man could sleep eat and write letter be bind up with the open and guard of irrigation canal the handle of two or three thousand workman of all caste and creed and the payment of vast sum of coin silver. 
he have finish that spring not without credit the last section of the great mosuhl canal and much against his will for he hat office work have be send in to serve during the hot weather on the account and supply side of the department with sole charge of the swelter sub office at the capital of the province. martyn know this. william his sister know it. and everybody know it. scott know too a well a the rest of the world that miss martyn have come out to india four year ago to keep house for her brother who a every one know have borrow the money to pay for her passage and that she ought a all the world say to have marry at once. in stead of this she have refuse some half a dozen subaltern a civilian twenty year her senior one major and a man in the indian medical department. this too be common property. she have stay down three hot weather a the say be because her brother be in debt and could not afford the expense of her keep at even a cheap hill station. therefore her face be white a bone and in the centre of her forehead be a big silvery scar about the size of a shill the mark of a delhi sore which be the same a a bagdad date. this come from drink bad water and slowly eat into the flesh till it be ripe enough to be burn out. 
none the le william have enjoy herself hugely in her four year. twice she have be nearly drown while ford a river. once she have be run away with on a camel. have witness a midnight attack of thief on her brother s camp. have see justice administer with long stick in the open under tree. could speak urdu and even rough punjabi with a fluency that be envy by her senior. have entirely fall out of the habit of write to her aunt in england or cut the page of the english magazine. have be through a very bad cholera year see sight unfit to be tell. and have wind up her experience by six week of typhoid fever during which her head have be shave and hop to keep her twenty third birthday that september. it be conceivable that the aunt would not have approve of a girl who never set foot on the grind if a horse be within hail. who ride to dance with a shawl throw over her skirt. who wear her hair crop and curl all over her head. who answer indifferently to the name of william or bill. whose speech be heavy with the flower of the vernacular. who could act in amateur theatrical play on the banjo rule eight servant and two horse their account and their disease and look men slowly and deliberately between the eye even after they have propose to her and be reject. 
i like men who do thing she have confide to a man in the educational department who be teach the son of cloth merchant and dyer the beauty of wordsworth s excursion in annotate cram book. and when he grow poetical william explain that she didn t understand poetry very much. it make her head ache and another break heart take refuge at the club. but it be all william s fault. she delight in hear men talk of their own work and that be the most fatal way of bring a man to your foot. 
scott have know her for some three year meet her a a rule under canvas when his camp and her brother s join for a day on the edge of the indian desert. he have dance with her several time at the big christmas gathering when a many a five hundred white people come in to the station. and have always a great respect for her housekeep and her dinner. 
she look more like a boy than ever when the meal end she sit roll cigarette her low forehead pucker beneath the dark curl a she twiddle the paper and stick out her round chin when the tobacco stay in place or with a gesture a true a a school boy s throw a stone toss the finish article across the room to martyn who catch it with one hand and continue his talk with scott. it be all shop canal and the police of canal. the sin of villager who steal more water than they have pay for and the gross sin of native constable who connive at the theft. of the transplant bodily of village to newly irrigate grind and of the come fight with the desert in the south when the provincial fund should warrant the open of the long survey luni protective canal system. and scott speak openly of his great desire to be put on one particular section of the work where he know the land and the people. and martyn sigh for a billet in the himalayan foot hill and say his mind of his superior and william roll cigarette and say nothing but smile gravely on her brother because he be happy. 
at ten scott s horse come to the door and the even be end. the light of the two low bungalow in which the daily paper be print show bright across the road. it be too early to try to find sleep and scott drift over to the editor. rain strip to the waist like a sailor at a gun lay half asleep in a long chair wait for night telegram. he have a theory that if a man do not stay by his work all day and most of the night he lay himself open to fever. so he eat and sleep among his file. 
can you do it. he say drowsily. i didn t mean to bring you over. 
about what. i ve be din at the martyns. 
the madras famine of course. martyn s warn too. they re take men where they can find em. i send a note to you at the club just now ask if you could do u a letter once a week from the south between two and three column say. nothing sensational of course but just plain fact about who be do what and so forth. our regular rate ten rupee a column. 
sorry but it s out of my line scott answer star absently at the map of india on the wall. it s rough on martyn very. wonder what he ll do with his sister. wonder what the deuce they ll do with me. i ve no famine experience. this be the first i ve hear of it. be i order. 
oh yes. here s the wire. they ll put you on to relief work rain say with a horde of madrassis die like fly. one native apothecary and half a pint of cholera mixture among the ten thousand of you. it come of your be idle for the moment. every man who isn t do two men s work seem to have be call upon. hawkins evidently belief in punjabi. it s go to be quite a bad a anything they have have in the last ten year. 
it s all in the day s work bad luck. i suppose i shall get my order officially some time to morrow. i m awfully glad i happen to drop in. good go and pack my kit now. who relief me here do you know. 
rain turn over a sheaf of telegram. mceuan say he from murree. 
scott chuckle. he think he be go to be cool all summer. he ll be very sick about this. well no good talk. night. 
two hour late scott with a clear conscience lay himself down to rest on a string cot in a bare room. two wear bullock trunk a leather water bottle a tin ice box and his pet saddle sew up in sack be pile at the door and the club secretary s receipt for last month s bill be under his pillow. his order come next morning and with them an unofficial telegram from sir jam hawkins. who be not in the habit of forget good men when he have once meet them bid him report himself with all speed at some unpronounceable place fifteen hundred mile to the south for the famine be sore in the land and white men be need. 
a pink and fattish youth arrive in the red hot noonday whimper a little at fate and famine which never allow any one three month peace. he be scott s successor another cog in the machinery move forward behind his fellow whose service a the official announcement run be place at the disposal of the madras government for famine duty until further order. scott hand over the fund in his charge show him the cool corner in the office warn him against excess of zeal and a twilight fell depart from the club in a hire carriage with his faithful body servant faiz ullah and a mound of disorder baggage atop to catch the southern mail at the loopholed and bastioned railway station. the heat from the thick brick wall strike him across the face a if it have be a hot towel. and he reflect that there be at least five night and four day of this travel before him. faiz ullah use to the chance of service plunge into the crowd on the stone platform while scott a black cheroot between his teeth wait till his compartment should be set away. a dozen native policeman with their rifle and bundle shoulder into the press of punjabi farmer sikh craftsman and greasy lock afreedee pedlar escort with all pomp martyn s uniform case water bottle ice box and bed roll. they saw faiz ullah s lift hand and steer for it. 
my sahib and your sahib say faiz ullah to martyn s man will travel together. thou and i o brother will thus secure the servant place close by. and because of our master authority none will dare to disturb u. 
when faiz ullah report all thing ready scott settle down at full length coatless and bootless on the broad leather cover bunk. the heat under the iron arch roof of the station might have be anything over a hundred degree. at the last moment martyn enter drip. 
don t swear say scott lazily. it s too late to change your carriage. and we ll divide the ice. 
what be you do here. say the police man. 
i m lend to the madras government same a you. by jove it s a bender of a night. be you take any of your men down. 
a dozen. i suppose i shall have to superintend relief distribution. didn t know you be under order too. 
i didn t till after i leave you last night. rain have the news first. my order come this morning. mceuan relieve me at four and i get off at once. shouldn t wonder if it wouldn t be a good thing this famine if we come through it alive. 
jimmy ought to put you and me to work together say martyn. and then after a pause. my sister s here. 
good business say scott heartily. go to get off at umballa i suppose and go up to simla. who ll she stay with there. 
no o. that s just the trouble of it. she s go down with me. 
scott sit bolt upright under the oil lamp a the train jolt past tarn taran. what. you don t mean you couldn t afford. 
tain t that. i d have scrap up the money somehow. 
you might have come to me to begin with say scott stiffly. we aren t altogether stranger. 
well you needn t be stuffy about it. i might but you don t know my sister. i ve be explain and exhort and all the rest of it all day lose my temper since seven this morning and haven t get it back yet but she wouldn t hear of any compromise. a woman s entitle to travel with her husband if she want to. and william say she s on the same foot. you see we ve be together all our life more or le since my people die. it isn t a if she be an ordinary sister. 
all the sister i ve ever hear of would have stay where they be well off. 
she s a clever a a man confound martyn go on. she break up the bungalow over my head while i be talk at her. settle the whole thing in three hour servant horse and all. i didn t get my order till nine. 
jimmy hawkins win t be please say scott a famine s no place for a woman. 
mr. jim i mean lady jim s in camp with him. at any rate she say she will look after my sister. william wire down to her on her own responsibility ask if she could come and knock the grind from under me by show me her answer. 
scott laugh aloud. if she can do that she can take care of herself and mr. jim win t let her run into any mischief. there aren t many woman sister or wife who would walk into a famine with their eye open. it isn t a if she didn t know what these thing mean. she be through the jalo cholera last year. 
the train stop at amritsar and scott go back to the lady compartment immediately behind their carriage. william with a cloth rid cap on her curl nod affably. 
come in and have some tea she say. best thing in the world for heat apoplexy. 
do i look a if i be go to have heat apoplexy. 
never can tell say william wisely. it s always best to be ready. 
she have arrange her compartment with the knowledge of an old campaigner. a felt cover water bottle hang in the draught of one of the shutter window. a tea set of russian china pack in a wad basket stand on the seat. and a travel spirit lamp be clamp against the woodwork above it. 
william serve them generously in large cup hot tea which save the vein of the neck from swell inopportunely on a hot night. it be characteristic of the girl that her plan of action once settle she ask for no comment on it. life among men who have a great deal of work to do and very little time to do it in have teach her the wisdom of efface a well a of fend for herself. she do not by word or deed suggest that she would be useful comfort or beautiful in their travel but continue about her business serenely. put the cup back without clatter when tea be end and make cigarette for her guest. 
this time last night say scott we didn t expect er this kind of thing do we. 
i ve learn to expect anything say william. you know in our service we live at the end of the telegraph. but of course this ought to be a good thing for u all departmentally if we live. 
it knock u out of the run in our own province scott reply with equal gravity. i hop to be put on the luni protective work this cold weather but there s no say how long the famine may keep u. 
hardly beyond october i should think say martyn. it will be end one way or the other then. 
and we ve nearly a week of this say william. sha n t we be dusty when it s over. 
for a night and a day they know their surround and for a night and a day skirt the edge of the great indian desert on a narrow gauge railway they remember how in the day of their apprenticeship they have come by that road from bombay. then the language in which the name of the station be write change and they launch south into a foreign land where the very smell be new. many long and heavily lade grain train be in front of them and they could feel the hand of jimmy hawkins from far off. they wait in extemporise siding while procession of empty truck return to the north and be couple on to slow crawl train and drop at midnight heaven know where. but it be furiously hot and they walk to and fro among sack and dog howl. then they come to an india more strange to them than to the untravelled englishman the flat red india of palm tree palmyra palm and rice the india of the picture book of little harry and his bearer all dead and dry in the bake heat. they have leave the incessant passenger traffic of the north and west far and far behind them. here the people crawl to the side of the train hold their little one in their arm. and a load truck would be leave behind the men and woman cluster round it like ant by spill honey. once in the twilight they saw on a dusty plain a regiment of little brown men each bear a body over his shoulder. and when the train stop to leave yet another truck they perceive that the burden be not corps but only foodless folk pick up beside dead ox by a corp of irregular troop. now they meet more white men here one and there two whose tent stand close to the line and who come arm with write authority and angry word to cut off a truck. they be too busy to do more than nod at scott and martyn and stare curiously at william who could do nothing except make tea and watch how her men stave off the rush of wail walk skeleton put them down three at a time in heap with their own hand uncouple the mark truck or take receipt from the hollow eye weary white men who speak another argot than theirs. they run out of ice out of soda water and out of tea. for they be six day and seven night on the road and it seem to them like seven time seven year. 
at last in a dry hot dawn in a land of death light by long red fire of railway sleeper where they be burn the dead they come to their destination and be meet by jim hawkins the head of the famine unshaven unwashed but cheery and entirely in command of affair. 
martyn he decree then and there be to live on train till further order. be to go back with empty truck fill them with starve people a he find them and drop them at a famine camp on the edge of the eight district. he would pick up supply and return and his constable would guard the load grain car also pick up people and would drop them at a camp a hundred mile south. scott hawkins be very glad to see scott again would that same hour take charge of a convoy of bullock cart and would go south feed a he go to yet another famine camp where he would leave his starve there would be no lack of starve on the route and wait for order by telegraph. generally scott be in all small thing to act a he think best. 
william bite her under lip. there be no one in the wide world like her one brother but martyn s order give him no discretion. 
she come out on the platform mask with dust from head to foot a horse shoe wrinkle on her forehead put here by much think during the past week but a self possess a ever. mr. jim who should have be lady jim but that no one remember the title take possession of her with a little gasp. 
oh i m so glad you re here she almost sob. you oughtn t to of course but there there isn t another woman in the place and we must help each other you know. and we ve all the wretched people and the little baby they be sell. 
i ve see some say william. 
isn t it ghastly. i ve buy twenty. they re in our camp. but win t you have something to eat first. we ve more than ten people can do here. and i ve get a horse for you. oh i m so glad you ve come dear. you re a punjabi too you know. 
steady lizzie say hawkins over his shoulder. we ll look after you miss martyn. sorry i can t ask you to breakfast martyn. you ll have to eat a you go. leave two of your men to help scott. these poor devil can t stand up to load cart. saunders. this to the engine driver who be half asleep in the cab. back down and get those empty away. you ve line clear to anundrapillay. they ll give you order north of that. scott load up your cart from that b. p. p. truck and be off a soon a you can. the eurasian in the pink shirt be your interpreter and guide. you ll find an apothecary of sort tie to the yoke of the second wagon. he s be try to bolt. you ll have to look after him. lizzie drive miss martyn to camp and tell them to send the red horse down here for me. 
scott with faiz ullah and two policeman be already busy with the cart back them up to the truck and unbolt the sideboard quietly while the others pitch in the bag of millet and wheat. hawkins watch him for a long a it take to fill one cart. 
that s a good man he say. if all go well i shall work him hard. this be jim hawkins s notion of the high compliment one human be could pay another. 
an hour late scott be under way. the apothecary threaten him with the penalty of the law for that he a member of the subordinate medical department have be coerce and bind against his will and all law govern the liberty of the subject. the pink shirt eurasian beg leave to see his mother who happen to be die some three mile away. only verree verree short leave of absence and will presently return sar. the two constable arm with stave bring up the rear. and faiz ullah a mohammedan s contempt for all hindoo and foreigner in every line of his face explain to the driver that though scott sahib be a man to be fear on all four he faiz ullah be authority itself. 
the procession creak past hawkins s camp three stain tent under a clump of dead tree behind them the famine shed where a crowd of hopeless one toss their arm around the cook kettle. 
wish to heaven william have keep out of it say scott to himself after a glance. we ll have cholera sure a a gun when the rain break. 
but william seem to have take kindly to the operation of the famine code which when famine be declare supersede the working of the ordinary law. scott saw her the centre of a mob of weep woman in a calico rid habit and a blue grey felt hat with a gold puggaree. 
i want fifty rupee please. i forget to ask jack before he go away. can you lend it me. it s for condense milk for the baby say she. 
scott take the money from his belt and hand it over without a word. for goodness sake take care of yourself he say. 
oh i shall be all right. we ought to get the milk in two day. by the way the order be i be to tell you that you re to take one of sir jim s horse. there s a grey cabuli here that i think would be just your style so i ve say you d take him. be that right. 
that s awfully good of you. we can t either of u talk much about style i be afraid. 
scott be in a weather stain drill shoot kit very white at the seam and a little fray at the wrist. william regard him thoughtfully from his pith helmet to his grease ankle boot. you look very nice i think. be you sure you ve everything you ll need quinine chlorodyne and so on. 
think so say scott pat three or four of his shoot pocket a he mount and ride alongside his convoy. 
good bye he cry. 
good bye and good luck say william. i m awfully oblige for the money. she turn on a spur heel and disappear into the tent while the cart push on past the famine shed past the roar line of the thick fat fire down to the bake gehenna of the south. 
part ii. 
so let u melt and make no noise no tear flood nor sigh tempest move. twere profanation of our joy to tell the laity our love. 
a valediction. 
it be punish work even though he travel by night and camp by day. but within the limit of his vision there be no man whom scott could call master. he be a free a jimmy hawkins free in fact for the government hold the head of the famine tie neatly to a telegraph wire and if jimmy have ever regard telegram seriously the death rate of that famine would have be much high than it be. 
at the end of a few day crawl scott learn something of the size of the india which he serve and it astonish him. his cart a you know be load with wheat millet and barley good food grain need only a little grind. but the people to whom he bring the life give stuff be rice eater. they could hull rice in their mortar but they know nothing of the heavy stone quern of the north and le of the material that the white man convoy so laboriously. they clamour for rice unhusked paddy such a they be accustom to and when they find that there be none break away weep from the side of the cart. what be the use of these strange hard grain that choke their throat. they would die. and then and there very many of them keep their word. others take their allowance and barter enough millet to fee a man through a week for a few handful of rotten rice save by some le unfortunate. a few put their share into the rice mortar pound it and make a paste with foul water. but they be very few. scott understand dimly that many people in the india of the south eat rice a a rule but he have spend his service in a grain province have seldom see rice in the blade or ear and least of all would have believe that in time of deadly need men could die at arm s length of plenty sooner than touch food they do not know. in vain the interpreter interpret. in vain his two policeman show in vigorous pantomime what should be do. the starve creep away to their bark and weed grub leaf and clay and leave the open sack untouched. but sometimes the woman lay their phantom of child at scott s foot look back a they stagger away. 
faiz ullah opine it be the will of god that these foreigner should die and it remain only to give order to burn the dead. none the le there be no reason why the sahib should lack his comfort and faiz ullah a campaigner of experience have pick up a few lean goat and have add them to the procession. that they might give milk for the morning meal he be feed them on the good grain that these imbecile reject. yes say faiz ullah. if the sahib think fit a little milk might be give to some of the baby. but a the sahib well know baby be cheap and for his own part faiz ullah hold that there be no government order a to baby. scott speak forcefully to faiz ullah and the two policeman and bid them capture goat where they could find them. this they most joyfully do for it be a recreation and many ownerless goat be drive in. once feed the poor brute be will enough to follow the cart and a few day good food food such a human being die for lack of set them in milk again. 
but i be no goatherd say faiz ullah. it be against my izzat [my honour]. 
when we cross the bias river again we will talk of izzat scott reply. till that day thou and the policeman shall be sweeper to the camp if i give the order. 
thus then it be do grunt faiz ullah if the sahib will have it so. and he show how a goat should be milk while scott stand over him. 
now we will fee them say scott. twice a day we will fee them. and he bow his back to the milk and take a horrible cramp. 
when you have to keep connection unbroken between a restless mother of kid and a baby who be at the point of death you suffer in all your system. but the baby be feed. each morning and even scott would solemnly lift them out one by one from their nest of gunny bag under the cart tilt. there be always many who could do no more than breathe and the milk be drop into their toothless mouth drop by drop with due pause when they choke. each morning too the goat be feed. and since they would straggle without a leader and since the native be hireling scott be force to give up rid and pace slowly at the head of his flock accommodate his step to their weakness. all this be sufficiently absurd and he felt the absurdity keenly. but at least he be save life and when the woman saw that their child do not die they make shift to eat a little of the strange food and crawl after the cart bless the master of the goat. 
give the woman something to live for say scott to himself a he sneeze in the dust of a hundred little foot and they ll hang on somehow. this beat william s condense milk trick all to piece. i shall never live it down though. 
he reach his destination very slowly find that a rice ship have come in from burmah and that store of paddy be available. find also an overwork englishman in charge of the shed and load the cart set back to cover the grind he have already pass. he leave some of the child and half his goat at the famine shed. for this he be not thank by the englishman who have already more stray baby than he know what to do with. scott s back be supple to stoop now and he go on with his wayside ministration in addition to distribute the paddy. more baby and more goat be add unto him. but now some of the baby wear rag and bead round their wrist or neck. that say the interpreter a though scott do not know signify that their mother hope in eventual contingency to resume them offeecially. 
the sooner the good say scott. but at the same time he mark with the pride of ownership how this or that little ramasawmy be put on flesh like a bantam. a the paddy cart be empty he head for hawkins s camp by the railway time his arrival to fit in with the dinner hour for it be long since he have eat at a cloth. he have no desire to make any dramatic entry but an accident of the sunset order it that when he have take off his helmet to get the even breeze the low light should fall across his forehead and he could not see what be before him. while one wait at the tent door behold with new eye a young man beautiful a paris a god in a halo of golden dust walk slowly at the head of his flock while at his knee run small naked cupid. but she laugh william in a slate colour blouse laugh consumedly till scott put the best face he could upon the matter halt his army and bid her admire the kindergarten. it be an unseemly sight but the propriety have be leave age ago with the tea party at amritsar station fifteen hundred mile to the north. 
they be come on nicely say william. we ve only five and twenty here now. the woman be begin to take them away again. 
be you in charge of the baby then. 
yes mr. jim and i. we didn t think of goat though. we ve be try condense milk and water. 
any loss. 
more than i care to think of. say william with a shudder. and you. 
scott say nothing. there have be many little burial along his route one cannot burn a dead baby many mother who have weep when they do not find again the child they have trust to the care of the government. 
then hawkins come out carry a razor at which scott look hungrily for he have a beard that he do not love. and when they sit down to dinner in the tent he tell his tale in few word a it might have be an official report. mr. jim snuffle from time to time and jim bow his head judicially. but william s grey eye be on the clean shave face and it be to her that scott seem to appeal. 
good for the pauper province. say william her chin on her hand a she lean forward among the wine glass. her cheek have fall in and the scar on her forehead be more prominent than ever but the well turn neck rise roundly a a column from the ruffle of the blouse which be the accept even dress in camp. 
it be awfully absurd at time say scott. you see i didn t know much about milk or baby. they ll chaff my head off if the tale go up north. 
let em say william haughtily. we ve all do coolie work since we come. i know jack ha. this be to hawkins s address and the big man smile blandly. 
your brother s a highly efficient officer william say he and i ve do him the honour of treat him a he deserve. remember i write the confidential report. 
then you must say that william s worth her weight in gold say mr. jim. i don t know what we should have do without her. she ha be everything to u. she drop her hand upon william s which be rough with much handle of rein and william pat it softly. jim beam on the company. thing be go well with his world. three of his more grossly incompetent men have die and their place have be fill by their better. every day bring the rain near. they have put out the famine in five of the eight district and after all the death rate have not be too heavy thing consider. he look scott over carefully a an ogre look over a man and rejoice in his thews and iron hard condition. 
he s just the least bite in the world tuck up say jim to himself but he can do two men s work yet. then he be aware that mr. jim be telegraph to him and accord to the domestic code the message run. a clear case. look at them. 
he look and listen. all that william be say be. what can you expect of a country where they call a bhistee [a water carrier] a tunni cutch. and all that scott answer be. i shall be glad to get back to the club. save me a dance at the christmas ball win t you. 
it s a far cry from here to the lawrence hall say jim. good turn in early scott. it s paddy cart to morrow. you ll begin load at five. 
aren t you go to give mr. scott a single day s rest. 
wish i could lizzie but i m afraid i can t. a long a he can stand up we must use him. 
well i ve have one europe even at least. by jove i d nearly forget. what do i do about those baby of mine. 
leave them here say william we be in charge of that and a many goat a you can spare. i must learn how to milk now. 
if you care to get up early enough to morrow i ll show you. i have to milk you see. half of em have bead and thing round their neck. you must be careful not to take em off. in case the mother turn up. 
you forget i ve have some experience here. 
i hope to goodness you win t overdo. scott s voice be unguarded. 
i ll take care of her say mr. jim telegraph hundred word message a she carry william off. while jim give scott his order for the come campaign. it be very late nearly nine o clock. 
jim you re a brute say his wife that night. and the head of the famine chuckle. 
not a bite of it dear. i remember do the first jandiala settlement for the sake of a girl in a crinoline and she be slender lizzie. i ve never do a good a piece of work since. he ll work like a demon. 
but you might have give him one day. 
and let thing come to a head now. no dear. it s their happy time. 
i don t believe either of the darling know what s the matter with them. isn t it beautiful. isn t it lovely. 
get up at three to learn to milk bless her heart. oh ye god why must we grow old and fat. 
she s a darling. she ha do more work under me. 
under you. the day after she come she be in charge and you be her subordinate. you ve stay there ever since. she manage you almost a well a you manage me. 
she doesn t and that s why i love her. she s a direct a a man a her brother. 
her brother s weak than she be. he s always to me for order. but he s honest and a glutton for work. i confess i m rather fond of william and if i have a daughter. 
the talk end. far away in the derajat be a child s grave more than twenty year old and neither jim nor his wife speak of it any more. 
all the same you re responsible jim add a moment s silence. 
bless em. say mr. jim sleepily. 
before the star pal scott who sleep in an empty cart wake and go about his work in silence. it seem at that hour unkind to rouse faiz ullah and the interpreter. his head be close to the grind he do not hear william till she stand over him in the dingy old rid habit her eye still heavy with sleep a cup of tea and a piece of toast in her hand. there be a baby on the grind squirm on a piece of blanket and a six year old child peer over scott s shoulder. 
hai you little rip say scott how the deuce do you expect to get your ration if you aren t quiet. 
a cool white hand steady the brat who forthwith choke a the milk gurgle into his mouth. 
mornin say the milker. you ve no notion how these little fellow can wriggle. 
oh yes i have. she whisper because the world be asleep. only i fee them with a spoon or a rag. yours be fat than mine. and you ve be do this day after day. the voice be almost lose. 
yes. it be absurd. now you try he say give place to the girl. look out. a goat s not a cow. 
the goat protest against the amateur and there be a scuffle in which scott snatch up the baby. then it be all to do over again and william laugh softly and merrily. she manage however to fee two baby and a third. 
don t the little beggar take it well. say scott. i train em. 
they be very busy and interest when lo. it be broad daylight and before they know the camp be awake and they kneel among the goat surprise by the day both flush to the temple. yet all the round world roll up out of the darkness might have hear and see all that have pass between them. 
oh say william unsteadily snatch up the tea and toast i have this make for you. it s stone cold now. i think you mightn t have anything ready so early. good not drink it. it s it s stone cold. 
that s awfully kind of you. it s just right. it s awfully good of you really. i ll leave my kid and goat with you and mr. jim and of course any one in camp can show you about the milk. 
of course say william. and she grow pink and pink and stately and more stately a she stride back to her tent fan herself with the saucer. 
there be shrill lamentation through the camp when the elder child saw their nurse move off without them. faiz ullah unbend so far a to jest with the policeman and scott turn purple with shame because hawkins already in the saddle roar. 
a child escape from the care of mr. jim and run like a rabbit cling to scott s boot william pursue with long easy stride. 
i will not go i will not go. shriek the child twin his foot round scott s ankle. they will kill me here. i do not know these people. 
i say say scott in break tamil i say she will do you no harm. go with her and be well feed. 
come. say william pant with a wrathful glance at scott who stand helpless and a it be hamstring. 
go back say scott quickly to william. i ll send the little chap over in a minute. 
the tone of authority have it effect but in a way scott do not exactly intend. the boy loosen his grasp and say with gravity. i do not know the woman be thine. i will go. then he cry to his companion a mob of three four and five year old wait on the success of his venture ere they stampede. go back and eat. it be our man s woman. she will obey his order. 
jim collapse where he sit. faiz ullah and the two policeman grin. and scott s order to the cartmen fly like hail. 
that be the custom of the sahib when truth be tell in their presence say faiz ullah. the time come that i must seek new service. young wife especially such a speak our language and have knowledge of the way of the police make great trouble for honest butler in the matter of weekly account. 
what william think of it all she do not say but when her brother ten day late come to camp for order and hear of scott s performance he say laugh. well that settle it. he ll be bakri scott to the end of his day. bakri in the northern vernacular mean a goat. what a lark. i d have give a month s pay to have see him nurse famine baby. i feed some with conjee [rice water] but that be all right. 
it s perfectly disgust say his sister with blaze eye. a man doe something like like that and all you other men think of be to give him an absurd nickname and then you laugh and think it s funny. 
ah say mr. jim sympathetically. 
well you can t talk william. you christen little miss demby the button quail last cold weather. you know you do. india s the land of nickname. 
that s different william reply. she be only a girl and she hadn t do anything except walk like a quail and she doe. but it isn t fair to make fun of a man. 
scott win t care say martyn. you can t get a rise out of old scotty. i ve be try for eight year and you ve only know him for three. how doe he look. 
he look very well say william and go away with a flush cheek. bakri scott indeed. then she laugh to herself for she know her country. but it will he bakri all the same. and she repeat it under her breath several time slowly whisper it into favour. 
when he return to his duty on the railway martyn spread the name far and wide among his associate so that scott meet it a he lead his paddy cart to war. the native believe it to be some english title of honour and the cart driver use it in all simplicity till faiz ullah who do not approve of foreign jape break their head. there be very little time for milk now except at the big camp where jim have extend scott s idea and be feed large flock on the useless northern grain. sufficient paddy have come now into the eight district to hold the people safe if it be only distribute quickly and for that purpose no one be good than the big canal officer who never lose his temper never give an unnecessary order and never question an order give. scott press on save his cattle wash their gall neck daily so that no time should be lose on the road. report himself with his rice at the minor famine shed unload and go back light by force night march to the next distribute centre to find hawkins s unvarying telegram. do it again. and he do it again and again and yet again while jim hawkins fifty mile away mark off on a big map the track of his wheel gridironing the stricken land. others do well hawkins report at the end they all do well but scott be the most excellent for he keep good coin rupee by him settle for his own cart repair on the spot and run to meet all sort of unconsidered extra trust to be recoup late on. theoretically the government should have pay for every shoe and linchpin for every hand employ in the load. but government voucher cash themselves slowly and intelligent and efficient clerk write at great length contest unauthorised expenditure of eight anna. the man who want to make his work a success must draw on his own bank account of money or other thing a he go. 
i tell you he d work say jimmy to his wife at the end of six week. he s be in sole charge of a couple of thousand men up north on the mosuhl canal for a year. but he give le trouble than young martyn with his ten constable. and i m morally certain only government doesn t recognise moral obligation he s spend about half his pay to grease his wheel. look at this lizzie for one week s work. forty mile in two day with twelve cart. two day halt build a famine shed for young rogers. rogers ought to have build it himself the idiot. then forty mile back again load six cart on the way and distribute all sunday. then in the even he pitch in a twenty page demi official to me say the people where he be might be advantageously employ on relief work and suggest that he put em to work on some break down old reservoir he s discover so a to have a good water supply when the rain break. think he can cauk the dam in a fortnight. look at his marginal sketch aren t they clear and good. i know he be pukka but i didn t know he be a pukka a this. 
i must show these to william say mr. jim. the child s wear herself out among the baby. 
not more than you be dear. well another two month ought to see u out of the wood. i m sorry it s not in my power to recommend you for a v. c. 
william sit late in her tent that night read through page after page of the square handwrite pat the sketch of propose repair to the reservoir and wrinkle her eyebrow over the column of figure of estimate water supply. and he find time to do all this she cry to herself and well i also be present. i ve save one or two baby. 
she dream for the twentieth time of the god in the golden dust and wake refresh to fee loathsome black child score of them wastrel pick up by the wayside their bone almost break their skin terrible and cover with sore. 
scott be not allow to leave his cart work but his letter be duly forward to the government and he have the consolation not rare in india of know that another man be reap where he have sow. that also be discipline profitable to the soul. 
he s much too good to waste on canal say jimmy. any one can oversee cooly. you needn t be angry william. he can but i need my pearl among bullock driver and i ve transfer him to the khanda district where he ll have it all to do over again. he should be march now. 
he s not a coolie say william furiously. he ought to be do his regulation work. 
he s the best man in his service and that s say a good deal. but if you must use razor to cut grindstone why i prefer the best cutlery. 
isn t it almost time we saw him again. say mr. jim. i m sure the poor boy hasn t have a respectable meal for a month. he probably sit on a cart and eat sardine with his finger. 
all in good time dear. duty before decency wasn t it mr. chuck say that. 
no. it be midshipman easy william laugh. i sometimes wonder how it will feel to dance or listen to a band again or sit under a roof. i can t believe i ever wear a ball frock in my life. 
one minute say mr. jim who be think. if he go to khanda he pass within five mile of u. of course he ll ride in. 
oh no he win t say william. 
how do you know dear. 
it will take him off his work. he win t have time. 
he ll make it say mr. jim with a twinkle. 
it depend on his own judgment. there s absolutely no reason why he shouldn t if he think fit say jim. 
he win t see fit william reply without sorrow or emotion. it wouldn t be him if he do. 
one certainly get to know people rather well in time like these say jim drily. but william s face be serene a ever and even a she prophesy scott do not appear. 
the rain fell at last late but heavily. and the dry gash earth be red mud and servant kill snake in the camp where every one be weather bind for a fortnight all except hawkins who take horse and plash about in the wet rejoice. now the government decree that seed grain should be distribute to the people a well a advance of money for the purchase of new ox. and the white men be doubly work for this new duty while william skip from brick to brick lay down on the trample mud and dose her charge with warm medicine that make them rub their little round stomach. and the milch goat thrive on the rank grass. there be never a word from scott in the khanda district away to the southeast except the regular telegraphic report to hawkins. the rude country road have disappear. his driver be half mutinous. one of martyn s loan policeman have die of cholera. and scott be take thirty grain of quinine a day to fight the fever that come with the rain. but those be thing scott do not consider necessary to report. he be a usual work from a base of supply on a railway line to cover a circle of fifteen mile radius and since full load be impossible he take quarter load and toil four time a hard by consequence. for he do not choose to risk an epidemic which might have grow uncontrollable by assemble villager in thousand at the relief shed. it be cheap to take government bullock work them to death and leave them to the crow in the wayside slough. 
that be the time when eight year of clean live and hard condition tell though a man s head be ring like a bell from the cinchona and the earth sway under his foot when he stand and under his bed when he sleep. if hawkins have see fit to make him a bullock driver that he think be entirely hawkins s own affair. there be men in the north who would know what he have do. men of thirty year service in his own department who would say that it be not half bad. and above immeasurably above all men of all grade there be william in the thick of the fight who would approve because she understand. he have so train his mind that it would hold fast to the mechanical routine of the day though his own voice sound strange in his own ear and his hand when he write grow large a pillow or small a pea at the end of his wrist. that steadfastness bore his body to the telegraph office at the railway station and dictate a telegram to hawkins say that the khanda district be in his judgment now safe and he wait further order. 
the madrassee telegraph clerk do not approve of a large gaunt man fall over him in a dead faint not so much because of the weight a because of the name and blow that faiz ullah deal him when he find the body roll under a bench. then faiz ullah take blanket quilt and coverlet where he find them and lay down under them at his master s side and bind his arm with a tent rope and fill him with a horrible stew of herb and set the policeman to fight him when he wish to escape from the intolerable heat of his covering and shut the door of the telegraph office to keep out the curious for two night and one day. and when a light engine come down the line and hawkins kick in the door scott hail him weakly but in a natural voice and faiz ullah stand back and take all the credit. 
for two night heaven bear he be pagal say faiz ullah. look at my nose and consider the eye of the policeman. he beat u with his bind hand. but we sit upon him heaven bear and though his word be tez we sweat him. heaven bear never ha be such a sweat. he be weak now than a child. but the fever ha go out of him by the grace of god. there remain only my nose and the eye of the constabeel. sahib shall i ask for my dismissal because my sahib ha beat me. and faiz ullah lay his long thin hand carefully on scott s chest to be sure that the fever be all go ere he go out to open tin soup and discourage such a laugh at his swell nose. 
the district s all right scott whisper. it doesn t make any difference. you get my wire. i shall be fit in a week. can t understand how it happen. i shall be fit in a few day. 
you re come into camp with u say hawkins. 
but look here but. 
it s all over except the shout. we sha n t need you punjabi any more. on my honour we sha n t. martyn go back in a few week. arbuthnot s return already. elli and clay be put the last touch to a new feeder line the government s build a relief work. morten s dead he be a bengal man though. you wouldn t know him. pon my word you and will miss martyn seem to have come through it a well a anybody. 
oh how be she by the way. the voice go up and down a he speak. 
go strong when i leave her. the roman catholic mission be adopt the unclaimed baby to turn them into little priest. the basil mission be take some and the mother be take the rest. you should hear the little beggar howl when they re send away from william. she s pull down a bite but so be we all. now when do you suppose you ll be able to move. 
i can t come into camp in this state. i win t he reply pettishly. 
well you be rather a sight but from what i gather there it seem to me they d be glad to see you under any condition. i ll look over your work here if you like for a couple of day and you can pull yourself together while faiz ullah feed you up. 
scott could walk dizzily by the time hawkins s inspection be end and he flush all over when jim say of his work that it be not half bad and volunteer further that he have consider scott his right hand man through the famine and would feel it his duty to say a much officially. 
so they come back by rail to the old camp. but there be no crowd near it. the long fire in the trench be dead and black and the famine shed be almost empty. 
you see. say jim. there isn t much more to do. good ride up and see the wife. they ve pitch a tent for you. dinner s at seven. i ve some work here. 
rid at a foot pace faiz ullah by his stirrup scott come to william in the brown calico rid habit sit at the din tent door her hand in her lap white a ash thin and wear with no lustre in her hair. there do not seem to be any mr. jim on the horizon and all that william could say be. my word how pull down you look. 
i ve have a touch of fever. you don t look very well yourself. 
oh i m fit enough. we ve stamp it out. i suppose you know. 
scott nod. we shall all be return in a few week. hawkins tell me. 
before christmas mr. jim say. sha n t you be glad to go back. i can smell the wood smoke already. william sniff. we shall be in time for all the christmas do. i don t suppose even the punjab government would be base enough to transfer jack till the new year. 
it seem hundred of year ago the punjab and all that doesn t it. be you glad you come. 
now it s all over yes. it ha be ghastly here though. you know we have to sit still and do nothing and sir jim be away so much. 
do nothing. how do you get on with the milk. 
i manage it somehow after you teach me. remember. 
then the talk stop with an almost audible jar. still no mr. jim. 
that remind me i owe you fifty rupee for the condense milk. i think perhaps you d be come here when you be transfer to the khanda district and i could pay you then. but you didn t. 
i pass within five mile of the camp but it be in the middle of a march you see and the cart be break down every few minute and i couldn t get em over the grind till ten o clock that night. i want to come awfully. you know i do didn t you. 
i believe i do say william face him with level eye. she be no long white. 
do you understand. 
why you didn t ride in. of course i do. 
why. 
because you couldn t of course. i know that. 
do you care. 
if you have come in but i know you wouldn t but if you have i should have care a great deal. you know i should. 
thank god i didn t. oh but i want to. i couldn t trust myself to ride in front of the cart because i keep edge em over here don t you know. 
i know you wouldn t say william contentedly. here s your fifty. 
scott bend forward and kiss the hand that hold the greasy note. it fellow pat him awkwardly but very tenderly on the head. 
and you know too didn t you. say william in a new voice. 
no on my honour i didn t. i hadn t the the cheek to expect anything of the kind except. i say be you out rid anywhere the day i pass by to khanda. 
william nod and smile after the manner of an angel surprise in a good deed. 
then it be just a speck i saw of your habit in the. 
palm grove on the southern cart road. i saw your helmet when you come up from the mullah by the temple just enough to be sure that you be all right. d you care. 
this time scott do not kiss her hand for they be in the dusk of the din tent and because william s knee be tremble under her she have to sit down in the near chair where she weep long and happily her head on her arm. and when scott imagine that it would be well to comfort her she need nothing of the kind she run to her own tent. and scott go out into the world and smile upon it largely and idiotically. but when faiz ullah bring him a drink he find it necessary to support one hand with the other or the good whisky and soda would have be spill abroad. there be fever and fever. 
but it be bad much bad the strain eye shirk talk at dinner till the servant have withdraw and bad of all when mr. jim who have be on the edge of weep from the soup down kiss scott and william and they drink one whole bottle of champagne hot because there be no ice and scott and william sit outside the tent in the starlight till mr. jim drive them in for fear of more fever. 
apropos of these thing and some others william say. be engage be abominable because you see one ha no official position. we must be thankful we ve lot of thing to do. 
thing to do. say jim when that be report to him. they re neither of them any good any more. i can t get five hour work a day out of scott. he s in the cloud half the time. 
oh but they re so beautiful to watch jimmy. it will break my heart when they go. can t you do anything for him. 
i ve give the government the impression at least i hope i have that he personally conduct the entire famine. but all he want be to get on to the luni canal work and william s just a bad. have you ever hear em talk of barrage and apron and waste water. it s their style of spoon i suppose. 
mr. jim smile tenderly. ah that s in the interval bless em. 
and so love run about the camp unrebuked in broad daylight while men pick up the piece and put them neatly away of the famine in the eight district. 
* * * * *. 
morning bring the penetrate chill of the northern december the layer of wood smoke the dusty grey blue of the tamarisk the dome of ruin tomb and all the smell of the white northern plain a the mail train run on to the mile long sutlej bridge. william wrap in a poshteen a silk embroider sheepskin jacket trim with rough astrakhan look out with moist eye and nostril that dilate joyously. the south of pagoda and palm tree the overpopulate hindu south be do with. here be the land she know and love and before her lay the good life she understand among folk of her own caste and mind. 
they be pick them up at almost every station now men and woman come in for the christmas week with racquet with bundle of polo stick with dear and bruise cricket bat with fox terrier and saddle. the great part of them wear jacket like william s for the northern cold be a little to be trifle with a the northern heat. and william be among them and of them her hand deep in her pocket her collar turn up over her ear stamp her foot on the platform a she walk up and down to get warm visit from carriage to carriage and everywhere be congratulate. scott be with the bachelor at the far end of the train where they chaff him mercilessly about feed baby and milk goat. but from time to time he would stroll up to william s window and murmur. good enough isn t it. and william would answer with sigh of pure delight. good enough indeed. the large open name of the home town be good to listen to. umballa ludianah phillour jullundur they ring like the come marriage bell in her ear and william felt deeply and truly sorry for all stranger and outsider visitor tourist and those fresh catch for the service of the country. 
it be a glorious return and when the bachelor give the christmas ball william be unofficially you might say the chief and honour guest among the steward who could make thing very pleasant for their friend. she and scott dance nearly all the dance together and sit out the rest in the big dark gallery overlook the superb teak floor where the uniform blaze and the spur clink and the new frock and four hundred dancer go round and round till the drape flag on the pillar flap and belly to the whirl of it. 
about midnight half a dozen men who do not care for dance come over from the club to play wait and that be a surprise the steward have arrange before any one know what have happen the band stop and hide voice break into good king wenceslaus and william in the gallery hum and beat time with her foot. 
mark my footstep well my page tread thou in them boldly. thou shalt feel the winter s rage freeze thy blood le coldly. 
oh i hope they be go to give u another. isn t it pretty come out of the dark in that way. look look down. there s mr. gregory wipe her eye. 
it s like home rather say scott. i remember. 
hsh. listen. dear. and it begin again. 
when shepherd watch their flock by night. 
a h h. say william draw close to scott. 
all seat on the grind the angel of the lord come down and glory shine around. fear not say he. for mighty dread have seize their trouble mind. glad tide of great joy i bring to you and all mankind. 
this time it be william that wipe her eye. 

a locomotive be next to a marine engine the most sensitive thing man ever make. and no. besides be sensitive be new. the red paint be hardly dry on his spotless bumper bar his headlight shine like a fireman s helmet and his cab might have be a hard wood finish parlour. they have run him into the round house after his trial he have say good bye to his best friend in the shop the overhead travel crane the big world be just outside. and the other locos be take stock of him. he look at the semicircle of bold unwinking headlight hear the low purr and mutter of the steam mount in the gauge scornful hiss of contempt a a slack valve lift a little and would have give a month s oil for leave to crawl through his own drive wheel into the brick ash pit beneath him. be an eight wheel american loco slightly different from others of his type and a he stand he be worth ten thousand dollar on the company s book. but if you have buy him at his own valuation after half an hour s wait in the darkish echo round house you would have save exactly nine thousand nine hundred and ninety nine dollar and ninety eight cent. 
a heavy mogul freight with a short cow catcher and a fire box that come down within three inch of the rail begin the impolite game speak to a pittsburgh consolidation who be visit. 
where do this thing blow in from. he ask with a dreamy puff of light steam. 
it s all i can do to keep track of our make be the answer without lookin after your back number. guess it s something peter cooper leave over when he die. 
quiver. his steam be get up but he hold his tongue. even a hand car know what sort of locomotive it be that peter cooper experiment upon in the far away thirty. it carry it coal and water in two apple barrel and be not much big than a bicycle. 
then up and speak a small newish switch engine with a little step in front of his bumper timber and his wheel so close together that he look like a broncho get ready to buck. 
something s wrong with the road when a pennsylvania gravel pusher tell u anything about our stock i think. that kid s all right. eustis design him and eustis design me. ain t that good enough. 
could have carry the switch loco round the yard in his tender but he felt grateful for even this little word of consolation. 
we don t use hand car on the pennsylvania say the consolidation. that er peanut stand be old enough and ugly enough to speak for himself. 
he hasn t bin speak to yet. he s bin speak at. hain t ye any manner on the pennsylvania. say the switch loco. 
you ought to be in the yard poney say the mogul severely. we re all long hauler here. 
that s what you think the little fellow reply. you ll know more fore the night s out. i ve bin down to track and the freight there oh christmas. 
i ve trouble enough in my own division say a lean light suburban loco with very shiny brake shoe. my commuter wouldn t rest till they get a parlourcar. they ve hitch it back of all and it haul worsen a snow plough. i ll snap her off someday sure and then they ll blame every one except their foolselves. they ll be askin me to haul a vestibuled next. 
they make you in new jersey didn t they. say poney. think so. commuter and truck wagon ain t any sweet haulin but i tell you they re a heap good n cuttin out refrigerator car or oil tank. why i ve haul. 
haul. you. say the mogul contemptuously. it s all you can do to bunt a cold storage car up the yard. now i he pause a little to let the word sink in i handle the fly freight e leven car worth just anything you please to mention. on the stroke of eleven i pull out. and i m time for thirty five an hour. costly perishable fragile immediate that s me. suburban traffic s only but one degree good than switch. express freight s what pay. 
well i ain t give to blow a a rule begin the pittsburgh consolidation. 
no. you be send in here because you grunt on the grade poney interrupt. 
where i grunt you d lie down poney. but a i be say i don t blow much. notwithstandin if you want to see freight that be freight move lively you should see me warble through the alleghanies with thirty seven ore car behind me and my brakeman fightin tramp so s they can t attend to my tooter. i have to do all the holdin back then and though i say it i ve never have a load get away from me yet. no sir. haulin s s one thing but judgment and discretion s another. you want judgment in my business. 
ah. but but be you not paralyse by a sense of your overwhelm responsibility. say a curious husky voice from a corner. 
who s that. whisper to the jersey commuter. 
compound experiment n. g. she s bin switchin in the b. & a. yard for six month when she wasn t in the shop. she s economical. i call it mean. in her coal but she take it out in repair. ahem. i presume you find boston somewhat isolate madam after your new york season. 
i be never so well occupy a when i be alone. the compound seem to be talk from half way up her smoke stack. 
sure say the irreverent poney under his breath. they don t hanker after her any in the yard. 
but with my constitution and temperament my work lie in boston i find your outrecuidance. 
out which. say the mogul freight. simple cylinder be good enough for me. 
perhaps i should have say faroucherie hiss the compound. 
i don t hold with any make of papier mache wheel the mogul insist. 
the compound sigh pityingly and say no more. 
git em all shape in this world don t ye. say poney that s mass chusetts all over. they half start an then they stick on a dead centre an blame it all on other folk s way o treatin them. talkin o boston comanche tell me last night he have a hot box just beyond the newton friday. that be why he say the accommodation be hold up. make out no end of a tale comanche do. 
if i d hear that in the shop with my boiler out for repair i d know t be one o comanche s lie the new jersey commuter snap. hot box. him. what happen be they d put an extra car on and he just lay down on the grade and squeal. they have to send to help him through. make it out a hotbox do he. time before that he say he be ditch. look me square in the headlight and tell me that a cool a a a water tank in a cold wave. hot box. you ask about comanche s hot box. why comanche he be side track and. he be just about a mad a they make em on account o be call out at ten o clock at night. take hold and snap her into boston in seventeen minute. hot box. hot fraud. that s what comanche be. 
then. put both driver and his pilot into it a the say be for he ask what sort of thing a hot box might be. 
paint my bell sky blue. say poney the switcher. make me a surface railroad loco with a hard wood skirtin board round my wheel. break me up and cast me into five cent sidewalk fakir mechanical toy. here s an eight wheel couple american don t know what a hot box be. never hear of an emergency stop either do ye. don t know what ye carry jack screw for. you re too innocent to be leave alone with your own tender. oh you you flatcar. 
there be a roar of escape steam before any one could answer and. nearly blister his paint off with pure mortification. 
a hot box begin the compound pick and choose her word a though they be coal a hotbox be the penalty exact from inexperience by haste. ahem. 
hot box. say the jersey suburban. it s the price you pay for go on the tear. it s year since i ve have one. it s a disease that don t attack shorthaulers a a rule. 
we never have hot box on the pennsylvania say the consolidation. they get em in new york same a nervous prostration. 
ah go home on a ferry boat say the mogul. you think because you use bad grade than our road u d allow you re a kind of alleghany angel. now i ll tell you what you. here s my folk. well i can t stop. see you late perhaps. 
he roll forward majestically to the turn table and swing like a man of war in a tideway till he pick up his track. but a for you you pea green swivel coffee pot. this to. you go out and learn something before you associate with those who ve make more mileage in a week than you ll roll up in a year. costly perishable fragile immediate that s me. s long. 
split my tube if that s actin polite to a new member o the brotherhood say poney. there wasn t any call to trample on ye like that. but manner be leave out when mogul be make. keep up your fire kid an burn your own smoke. guess we ll all be want in a minute. 
men be talk rather excitedly in the roundhouse. one man in a dingy jersey say that he hadn t any locomotive to waste on the yard. another man with a piece of crumple paper in his hand say that the yard master say that he be to say that if the other man say anything he. the other man. be to shut his head. then the other man wave his arm and want to know if he be expect to keep locomotive in his hip pocket. then a man in a black prince albert without a collar come up drip for it be a hot august night and say that what he say go. and between the three of them the locomotive begin to go too first the compound. then the consolidation. then. 
now deep down in his fire box. have cherish a hope that a soon a his trial be do he would be lead forth with song and shouting and attach to a green and chocolate vestibuled fly under charge of a bold and noble engineer who would pat him on his back and weep over him and call him his arab steed. the boy in the shop where he be build use to read wonderful story of railroad life and. expect thing to happen a he have hear. but there do not seem to be many vestibuled flier in the roar rumble electric light yard and his engineer only say. 
now what sort of a fool sort of an injector ha eustis load on to this rig this time. and he put the lever over with an angry snap cry. be i suppose to switch with this thing hey. 
the collarless man mop his head and reply that in the present state of the yard and freight and a few other thing the engineer would switch and keep on switch till the cow come home. push out gingerly his heart in his headlight so nervous that the clang of his own bell almost make him jump the track. lantern wave or dance up and down before and behind him. and on every side six track deep slide backward and forward with clash of coupler and squeal of hand brake be car more car than. have dream of. there be oil car and hay car and stock car full of low beast and ore car and potato car with stovepipe end stick out in the middle. cold storage and refrigerator car drip ice water on the track. ventilate fruit and milk car. flatcar with truck wagon full of market stuff. flat car load with reaper and binder all red and green and gild under the sizzle electric light. flat car pile high with strong scent hide pleasant hemlock plank or bundle of shingle. flat car creak to the weight of thirty ton casting angle iron and rivet box for some new bridge. and hundred and hundred and hundred of box car load lock and chalk. men hot and angry crawl among and between and under the thousand wheel. men take fly jump through his cab when he halt for a moment. men sit on his pilot a he go forward and on his tender a he return. and regiment of men run along the top of the box car beside him screw down brake wave their arm and cry curious thing. 
he be push forward a foot at a time. whirl backward his rear driver clink and clank a quarter of a mile. jerk into a switch. yard switch be very stubby and unaccommodating. bunt into a red d or merchant s transport car and with no hint or knowledge of the weight behind him start up anew. when his load be fairly on the move three or four car would be cut off and. would bind forward only to be hold hiccup on the brake. then he would wait a few minute watch the whirl lantern deafen with the clang of the bell giddy with the vision of the slide car his brake pump pant forty to the minute his front coupler lie sideways on his cow catcher like a tire dog s tongue in his mouth and the whole of him cover with half burn coal dust. 
tisn t so easy switch with a straight back tender say his little friend of the round house bustle by at a trot. but you re comin on pretty fair. ever see a flyin switch. no. then watch me. 
poney be in charge of a dozen heavy flat car. suddenly he shoot away from them with a sharp whutt. a switch open in the shadow ahead. he turn up it like a rabbit a it snap behind him and the long line of twelve foot high lumber jolt on into the arm of a full size road loco who acknowledge receipt with a dry howl. 
my man s reckon the smart in the yard at that trick he say return. give me cold shiver when another fool try it though. that s where my short wheel base come in. like a not you d have your tender scrap off if you try it. 
have no ambition that way and say so. 
no. of course this ain t your regular business but say don t you think it s interestin. have you see the yard master. well he s the great man on earth an don t you forget it. when be we through. why kid it s always like this day an night sunday an week day. see that thirty car freight slidin in four no five track off. she s all mix freight send here to be sort out into straight train. that s why we re cuttin out the car one by one. he give a vigorous push to a west bind car a he speak and start back with a little snort of surprise for the car be an old friend an m. t. k. box car. 
jack my driver but it s homeless kate. why kate ain t there no gettin you back to your friend. there s forty chaser out for you from your road if there s one. who s holdin you now. 
wish i know whimper homeless kate. i belong in topeka but i ve bin to cedar rapid. i ve bin to winnipeg. i ve bin to newport news. i ve bin all down the old atlanta and west point. an i ve bin to buffalo. maybe i ll fetch up at haverstraw. i ve only bin out ten month but i m homesick i m just achin homesick. 
try chicago katie say the switch loco. and the batter old car lumber down the track jolt. i want to be in kansa when the sunflower bloom. 
yard s full o homeless kates an wanderin willies he explain to. i know an old fitchburg flat car out seventeen month. an one of ours be go fifteen fore ever we get track of her. dunno quite how our men fix it. swap around i guess. anyway i ve do my duty. she s on her way to kansa via chicago. but i ll lay my next boilerful she ll be hold there to wait consignee s convenience and send back to u with wheat in the fall. 
just then the pittsburgh consolidation pass at the head of a dozen car. 
i m goin home he say proudly. 
can t get all them twelve on to the flat. break em in half dutchy. cry poney. but it be. who be back down to the last six car and he nearly blow up with surprise when he find himself push them on to a huge ferry boat. he have never see deep water before and shiver a the flat draw away and leave his bogy within six inch of the black shiny tide. 
after this he be hurry to the freight house where he saw the yard master a smallish white face man in shirt trouser and slipper look down upon a sea of truck a mob of bawl truckmen and squadron of back turn sweat spark strike horse. 
that s shipper cart loadin on to the receivin truck say the small engine reverently. but he don t care. he let em cuss. he s the czar king bos. he say please and then they kneel down an pray. there s three or four string o today s freight to be pull before he can attend to them. when he wave his hand that way thing happen. 
a string of load car slide out down the track and a string of empty take their place. bale crate box jar carboy frail case and package fly into them from the freight house a though the car have be magnet and they iron filing. 
ki yah. shriek little poney. ain t it great. 
a purple face truckman shoulder his way to the yard master and shake his fist under his nose. the yard master never look up from his bundle of freight receipt. he crook his forefinger slightly and a tall young man in a red shirt lounge carelessly beside him hit the truckman under the leave ear so that he drop quiver and cluck on a hay bale. 
eleven seven ninety seven l. y. s. fourteen ought ought three. nineteen thirteen. one one four. seventeen ought twenty one m. b. and the ten westbound. all straight except the two last. cut em off at the junction. an that s all right. pull that string. the yard master with mild blue eye look out over the howl truckmen at the water in the moonlight beyond and hum. 
all thing bright and beautiful all creature great and small all thing wise and wonderful the lawd gawd he make all. 
move out the car and deliver them to the regular road engine. he have never felt quite so limp in his life before. 
curious ain t it. say poney puff on the next track. you an me if we get that man under our bumper we d work him into red waste an not know what we d do. but up there with the steam hummin in his boiler that awful quiet way. 
i know say. make me feel a if i d drop my fire an be get cold. he be the great man on earth. 
they be at the far north end of the yard now under a switchtower look down on the four track way of the main traffic. the boston compound be to haul. s string to some far away northern junction over an indifferent road bed and she mourn aloud for the ninety six pound rail of the b. & a. 
you re young. you re young she cough. you don t realise your responsibility. 
yes he doe say poney sharply. but he don t lie down under em. then with aside spurt of steam exactly like a tough spit. there ain t more than fifteen thousand dollar worth o freight behind her anyway and she go on a if t be a hundred thousand same a the mogul s. excuse me madam but you ve the track. she s stick on a dead centre again bein specially design not to. 
the compound crawl across the track on a long slant groan horribly at each switch and move like a cow in a snow drift. there be a little pause along the yard after her tail light have disappear. switch lock crisply and every one seem to be wait. 
now i ll show you something worth say poney. when the purple emperor ain t on time it s about time to amend the constitution. the first stroke of twelve be. 
boom. go the clock in the big yard tower and far away. hear a full vibrate yah. yah. yah. a headlight twinkle on the horizon like a star grow an overpower blaze and whoop up the hum track to the roar music of a happy giant s song. 
with a michnai ghignai shtingal. yah. yah. yah. ein zwei drei mutter. yah. yah. yah. she climb upon d shteeple und she frighten all d people. singin michnai ghignai shtingal. yah. yah. 
the last defiant yah. yah. be deliver a mile and a half beyond the passenger depot. but. have catch one glimpse of the superb six wheel couple race locomotive who haul the pride and glory of the road the gild edge purple emperor the millionaire south bind express lay the mile over his shoulder a a man peel a shave from a soft board. the rest be a blur of maroon enamel a bar of white light from the electric in the car and a flicker of nickel plat hand rail on the rear platform. 
ooh. say. 
seventy five mile an hour these five mile. bath i ve hear. barber s shop. ticker. and a library and the rest to match. yes sir. seventy five an hour. but he ll talk to you in the round house just a democratic a i would. and i cuss my wheel base. i d kick clean off the track at half his gait. he s the master of our lodge. clean up at our house. i ll introdooce you some day. he s worth knowin. there ain t many can sing that song either. 
be too full of emotion to answer. he do not hear a rag of telephone bell in the switch tower nor the man a he lean out and call to. s engineer. get any steam. 
nough to run her a hundred mile out o this if i could say the engineer who belong to the open road and hat switch. 
then get. the fly freight s ditch forty mile out with fifty rod o track plough up. no. no one s hurt but both track be block. lucky the wreckin car an derrick be this end of the yard. crew ll be along in a minute. hurry. you ve the track. 
well i could jest kick my little saw off self say poney a. be back with a bang on to a grim and grimy car like a caboose but full of tool a flatcar and a derrick behind it. some folk be one thing and some be another. but you re in luck kid. they push a wreck car. now don t get rattle. your wheel base will keep you on the track and there ain t any curve worth mentionin. oh say. comanche tell me there s one section o sawedged track that s liable to jounce ye a little. fifteen an a half out after the grade at jackson s crossin. you ll know it by a farmhouse an a windmill an five maple in the dooryard. windmill s west o the maple. an there s an eighty foot iron bridge in the middle o that section with no guard rail. see you late. luck. 
before he know well what have happen. be fly up the track into the dumb dark world. then fear of the night beset him. he remember all he have ever hear of landslide rain pile boulder blow tree and stray cattle all that the boston compound have ever say of responsibility and a great deal more that come out of his own head. with a very quaver voice he whistle for his first grade cross. an event in the life of a locomotive. and his nerve be in no way restore by the sight of a frantic horse and a white face man in a buggy le than a yard from his right shoulder. then he be sure he would jump the track. felt his flange mount the rail at every curve. know that his first grade would make him lie down even a comanche have do at the newton. he whirl down the grade to jackson s cross saw the windmill west of the maple felt the badly lay rail spring under him and sweat big drop all over his boiler. at each jar bump he believe an axle have smash and he take the eighty foot bridge without the guard rail like a hunt cat on the top of a fence. then a wet leaf stick against the glass of his headlight and throw a fly shadow on the track so that he think it be some little dance animal that would feel soft if he run over it. and anything soft underfoot frighten a locomotive a it doe an elephant. but the men behind seem quite calm. the wreck crew be climb carelessly from the caboose to the tender even jest with the engineer for he hear a shuffle of foot among the coal and the snatch of a song something like this. 
oh the empire state must learn to wait and the cannon ball go hang. when the west bind s ditch and the tool car s hitch and it s way for the breakdown gang. tare ra. way for the breakdown gang. 
say. eustis know what he be doin when he design this rig. she s a hummer. new too. 
snff. phew. she be new. that ain t paint that s. 
a burn pain shoot through. s right rear driver a cripple sting pain. 
this say. a he fly be a hot box. now i know what it mean. i shall go to piece i guess. my first road run too. 
het a bite ain t she. the fireman venture to suggest to the engineer. 
she ll hold for all we want of her. we re most there. guess you chap back have good climb into your car say the engineer his hand on the brake lever. i ve see men snap off. 
but the crew flee back with laughter. they have no wish to be jerk on to the track. the engineer half turn his wrist and. find his driver pin firm. 
now it s come. say. a he yell aloud and slide like a sleigh. for the moment he fancy that he would jerk bodily from off his underpin. 
that must be the emergency stop that poney guy me about he gasp a soon a he could think. hot box emergency stop. they both hurt. but now i can talk back in the round house. 
he be halt all hiss hot a few foot in the rear of what doctor would call a compound comminute car. his engineer be kneel down among his driver but he do not call. his arab steed nor cry over him a the engineer do in the newspaper. he just bad word. and pull yard of char cotton waste from about the axle and hop he might some day catch the idiot who have pack it. nobody else attend to him for evans the mogul s engineer a little cut about the head but very angry be exhibit by lantern light the mangle corpse of a slim blue pig. 
t be n t even a decent size hog he say. t be a shote. 
dangerous beast they be say one of the crew. get under the pilot an sort o twiddle ye off the track don t they. 
don t they. roar evans who be a red head welshman. you talk a if i be ditch by a hog every fool day o the week. i ain t friend with all the cuss half feed shote in the state o new york. no indeed. yes this be him an look what he s do. 
it be not a bad night s work for one stray piglet. the fly freight seem to have fly in every direction for the mogul have mount the rail and run diagonally a few hundred foot from right to leave take with him such car a care to follow. some do not. they break their coupler and lay down while rear car frolic over them. in that game they have plough up and remove and twist a good deal of the leave hand track. the mogul himself have waddle into a corn field and there he kneel fantastic wreath of green twist round his crankpins. his pilot cover with solid clod of field on which corn nod drunkenly. his fire put out with dirt. evans have do that a soon a he recover his sens. and his break headlight half full of half burn moth. his tender have throw coal all over him and he look like a disreputable buffalo who have try to wallow in a general store. for there lay scatter over the landscape from the burst car type writer sew machine bicycle in crate a consignment of silver plat import harness french dress and glove a dozen finely mould hard wood mantel a fifteen foot naphtha launch with a solid brass bedstead crumple around her bow a case of telescope and microscope two coffin a case of very best candy some gild edge dairy produce butter and egg in an omelette a break box of expensive toy and a few hundred other luxury. a camp of tramp hurry up from nowhere and generously volunteer to help the crew. so the brakeman arm with coupler pin walk up and down on one side and the freight conductor and the fireman patrol the other with their hand in their hip pocket. a long beard man come out of a house beyond the corn field and tell evans that if the accident have happen a little late in the year all his corn would have be burn and accuse evans of carelessness. then he run away for evans be at his heel shriek. t be his hog do it his hog do it. let me kill him. let me kill him. then the wreck crew laugh. and the farmer put his head out of a window and say that evans be no gentleman. 
but. be very sober. he have never see a wreck before and it frighten him. the crew still laugh but they work at the same time. and forget horror in amazement at the way they handle the mogul freight. they dig round him with spade. they put tie in front of his wheel and jack screw under him. they embrace him with the derrick chain and tickle him with crowbar. while. be hitch on to wreck car and back away till the knot break or the car roll clear of the track. by dawn thirty or forty men be at work replace and ram down the tie gauge the rail and spike them. by daylight all car who could move have go on in charge of another loco. the track be free for traffic. and have haul the old mogul over a small pavement of tie inch by inch till his flange bite the rail once more and he settle down with a clank. but his spirit be break and his nerve be go. 
t weren t even a hog he repeat dolefully. t be a shote. and you you of all of em have to help me on. 
but how in the whole long road do it happen. ask sizzle with curiosity. 
happen. it didn t happen. it just come. i sail right on top of him around that last curve think he be a skunk. yes. he be all a little a that. he hadn t more n squeal once fore i felt my bogy lift. he d roll right under the pilot. and i couldn t catch the track again to save me. swivel clean off i be. then i felt him sling himself along all greasy under my leave leadin driver and oh boiler. that mount the rail. i hear my flange zippin along the tie an the next i know i be playin sally sally water in the corn my tender shuckin coal through my cab an old man evans lyin still an bleedin in front o me. shake. there ain t a stay or a bolt or a rivet in me that ain t spring to glory somewhere. 
umm. say. what d you reckon you weigh. 
without these lump o dirt i m all of a hundred thousand pound. 
and the shote. 
eighty. call him a hundred pound at the outside. he s worth about four n a half dollar. ain t it awful. ain t it enough to give you nervous prostration. ain t it paralysin. why i come just around that curve and the mogul tell the tale again for he be very badly shake. 
well it s all in the day s run i guess say soothingly. an an a corn field s pretty soft fallin. 
if it have bin a sixty foot bridge an i could ha slide off into deep water an blow up an kill both men same a others have do i wouldn t ha care. but to be ditch by a shote an you to help me out in a corn field an an old hayseed in his nightgown cussin me like a if i be a sick truck horse. oh it s awful. don t call me mogul. i m a sewin machine they ll guy my sand box off in the yard. 
and his hot box cool and his experience vastly enlarge haul the mogul freight slowly to the roundhouse. 
hello old man. bin out all night hain t ye. say the irrepressible poney who have just come off duty. well i must say you look it. costly perishable fragile immediate that s you. go to the shop take them vine leaf out o your hair an git em to play the hose on you. 
leave him alone poney say severely a he be swing on the turn table or i ll. 
didn t know the old granger be any special friend o yours kid. he wasn t over civil to you last time i saw him. 
i know it. but i ve see a wreck since then and it ha about scar the paint off me. i m not go to guy anyone a long a i steam not when they re new to the business an anxious to learn. and i m not goin to guy the old mogul either though i do find him wreathe around with roastin ear. t be a little bite of a shote not a hog just a shote poney no big n a lump of anthracite i saw it that make all the mess. anybody can be ditch i guess. 
find that out already have you. well that s a good beginnin. it be the purple emperor with his high tight plate glass cab and green velvet cushion wait to be clean for his next day s fly. 
let me make you two gen lemen acquaint say poney. this be our purple emperor kid whom you be admirin and i may say envyin last night. this be a new brother worshipful sir with most of his mileage ahead of him but so far a a serve brother can i ll answer for him. 
happy to meet you say the purple emperor with a glance round the crowd round house. i guess there be enough of u here to form a full meetin. ahem. by virtue of the authority vest in me a head of the road i hereby declare and pronounce no. a full and accept brother of the amalgamate brotherhood of locomotive and a such entitle to all shop switch track tank and round house privilege throughout my jurisdiction in the degree of superior flier it bein well know and credibly report to me that our brother ha cover forty one mile in thirty nine minute and a half on an errand of mercy to the afflict. at a convenient time i myself will communicate to you the song and signal of this degree whereby you may be recognise in the dark night. take your stall newly enter brother among locomotive. 
* * * * *. 
now in the dark night even a the purple emperor say if you will stand on the bridge across the freightyard look down upon the four track way at. a. m. neither before nor after when the white moth that take the overflow from the purple emperor tear south with her seven vestibuled cream white car you will hear a the yard clock make the half hour a far away sound like the bass of a violoncello and then a hundred foot to each word. 
with a michnai ghignai shtingal. yah. yah. yah. ein zwei drei mutter. yah. yah. yah. she climb upon d shteeple und she frighten all d people singin michnai ghignai shtingal. yah. yah. 
that be cover his one hundred and fifty six mile in two hundred and twenty one minute. 
the maltese cat. 
they have good reason to be proud and good reason to be afraid all twelve of them. for though they have fight their way game by game up the team enter for the polo tournament they be meet the archangel that afternoon in the final match. and the archangel men be play with half a dozen pony apiece. a the game be divide into six quarter of eight minute each that mean a fresh pony after every halt. the skidars team even suppose there be no accident could only supply one pony for every other change. and two to one be heavy odds. again a shiraz the grey syrian point out they be meet the pink and pick of the polo pony of upper india pony that have cost from a thousand rupee each while they themselves be a cheap lot gather often from country cart by their master who belong to a poor but honest native infantry regiment. 
money mean pace and weight say shiraz rub his black silk nose dolefully along his neat fit boot and by the maxim of the game a i know it. 
ah but we aren t play the maxim say the maltese cat. we re play the game. and we ve the great advantage of know the game. just think a stride shiraz. we ve pull up from bottom to second place in two week against all those fellow on the grind here. that s because we play with our head a well a our foot. 
it make me feel undersized and unhappy all the same say kittiwynk a mouse colour mare with a red brow band and the clean pair of leg that ever an age pony own. they ve twice our style these others. 
kittiwynk look at the gather and sigh. the hard dusty polo grind be line with thousand of soldier black and white not count hundred and hundred of carriage and drag and dogcart and lady with brilliant colour parasol and officer in uniform and out of it and crowd of native behind them. and orderly on camel who have halt to watch the game instead of carry letter up and down the station. and native horse dealer run about on thin eared biluchi mare look for a chance to sell a few first class polo pony. then there be the pony of thirty team that have enter for the upper india free for all cup nearly every pony of worth and dignity from mhow to peshawar from allahabad to multan. prize pony arab syrian barb country breed deccanee waziri and kabul pony of every colour and shape and temper that you could imagine. some of them be in mat roof stable close to the polo grind but most be under saddle while their master who have be defeat in the early game trot in and out and tell the world exactly how the game should be play. 
it be a glorious sight and the come and go of the little quick hoof and the incessant salutation of pony that have meet before on other polo ground or race course be enough to drive a four foot thing wild. 
but the skidars team be careful not to know their neighbour though half the pony on the grind be anxious to scrape acquaintance with the little fellow that have come from the north and so far have sweep the board. 
let s see say a soft gold colour arab who have be play very badly the day before to the maltese cat. didn t we meet in abdul rahman s stable in bombay four season ago. i win the paikpattan cup next season you may remember. 
not me say the maltese cat politely. i be at malta then pull a vegetable cart. i don t race. i play the game. 
oh. say the arab cock his tail and swagger off. 
keep yourselves to yourselves say the maltese cat to his companion. we don t want to rub nose with all those goose rumped half breed of upper india. when we ve win this cup they ll give their shoe to know u. 
we sha n t win the cup say shiraz. how do you feel. 
stale a last night s fee when a muskrat ha run over it say polaris a rather heavy shoulder grey. and the rest of the team agree with him. 
the sooner you forget that the good say the maltese cat cheerfully. they ve finish tiffin in the big tent. we shall be want now. if your saddle be not comfy kick. if your bit aren t easy rear and let the saises know whether your boot be tight. 
each pony have his sais his groom who live and eat and sleep with the animal and have bet a good deal more than he could afford on the result of the game. there be no chance of anything go wrong but to make sure each sais be shampoo the leg of his pony to the last minute. behind the saises sit a many of the skidars regiment a have leave to attend the match about half the native officer and a hundred or two dark black beard men with the regimental piper nervously finger the big beribboned bagpipe. the skidars be what they call a pioneer regiment and the bagpipe make the national music of half their men. the native officer hold bundle of polo stick long cane handle mallet and a the grand stand fill after lunch they arrange themselves by one and two at different point round the grind so that if a stick be break the player would not have far to ride for a new one. an impatient british cavalry band strike up if you want to know the time ask a p leeceman. and the two umpire in light dust coat dance out on two little excite pony. the four player of the archangel team follow and the sight of their beautiful mount make shiraz groan again. 
wait till we know say the maltese cat. two of em be play in blinker and that mean they can t see to get out of the way of their own side or they may shy at the umpire pony. they ve all get white web rein that be sure to stretch or slip. 
and say kittiwynk dance to take the stiffness out of her they carry their whip in their hand instead of on their wrist. hah. 
true enough. no man can manage his stick and his rein and his whip that way say the maltese cat. i ve fall over every square yard of the malta grind and i ought to know. 
he quiver his little flea bite wither just to show how satisfy he felt. but his heart be not so light. ever since he have drift into india on a troop ship take with an old rifle a part payment for a race debt the maltese cat have play and preach polo to the skidars team on the skidars stony pologround. now a polo pony be like a poet. if he be bear with a love for the game he can be make. the maltese cat know that bamboo grow solely in order that poloballs might be turn from their root that grain be give to pony to keep them in hard condition and that pony be shoe to prevent them slip on a turn. but besides all these thing he know every trick and device of the fine game in the world and for two season have be teach the others all he know or guess. 
remember he say for the hundredth time a the rider come up you must play together and you must play with your head. whatever happen follow the ball. who go out first. 
kittiwynk shiraz polaris and a short high little bay fellow with tremendous hock and no wither worth speak of. he be call cork. be be girth up and the soldier in the background star with all their eye. 
i want you men to keep quiet say lutyens the captain of the team and especially not to blow your pipe. 
not if we win captain sahib. ask the piper. 
if we win you can do what you please say lutyens with a smile a he slip the loop of his stick over his wrist and wheel to canter to his place. the archangel pony be a little bite above themselves on account of the many colour crowd so close to the grind. their rider be excellent player but they be a team of crack player instead of a crack team. and that make all the difference in the world. they honestly mean to play together but it be very hard for four men each the best of the team he be pick from to remember that in polo no brilliancy in hit or rid make up for play alone. their captain shout his order to them by name and it be a curious thing that if you call his name aloud in public after an englishman you make him hot and fretty. lutyens say nothing to his men because it have all be say before. he pull up shiraz for he be play back to guard the goal. powell on polaris be half back and macnamara and hughes on cork and kittiwynk be forward. the tough bamboo ball be set in the middle of the grind one hundred and fifty yard from the end and hughes cross stick head up with the captain of the archangel who saw fit to play forward. that be a place from which you cannot easily control your team. the little click a the cane shaft meet be hear all over the grind and then hughes make some sort of quick wrist stroke that just dribble the ball a few yard. kittiwynk know that stroke of old and follow a a cat follow a mouse. while the captain of the archangel be wrench his pony round hughes strike with all his strength and next instant kittiwynk be away cork follow close behind her their little foot patter like raindrop on glass. 
pull out to the leave say kittiwynk between her teeth. it s come your way cork. 
the back and half back of the archangel be tear down on her just a she be within reach of the ball. hughes lean forward with a loose rein and cut it away to the leave almost under kittiwynk s foot and it hop and skip off to cork who saw that if he be not quick it would run beyond the boundary. that long bounce drive give the archangel time to wheel and send three men across the grind to head off cork. kittiwynk stay where she be. for she know the game. cork be on the ball half a fraction of a second before the others come up and macnamara with a backhand stroke send it back across the grind to hughes who saw the way clear to the archangel goal and smack the ball in before any one quite know what have happen. 
that s luck say cork a they change end. a goal in three minute for three hit and no rid to speak of. 
don t know say polaris. we ve make em angry too soon. shouldn t wonder if they try to rush u off our foot next time. 
keep the ball hang then say shiraz. that wear out every pony that be not use to it. 
next time there be no easy gallop across the grind. all the archangel close up a one man but there they stay for cork kittiwynk and polaris be somewhere on the top of the ball mark time among the rattle stick while shiraz circle about outside wait for a chance. 
we can do this all day say polaris ram his quarter into the side of another pony. where do you think you re shove to. 
i ll i ll be drive in an ekka if i know be the gasp reply and i d give a week s fee to get my blinker off. i can t see anything. 
the dust be rather bad. whew. that be one for my off hock. where s the ball cork. 
under my tail. at least the man s look for it there. this be beautiful. they can t use their stick and it s drive em wild. give old blinker a push and then he ll go over. 
here don t touch me. i can t see. i ll i ll back out i think say the pony in blinker who know that if you can t see all round your head you cannot prop yourself against the shock. 
cork be watch the ball where it lay in the dust close to his near fore leg with macnamara s shorten stick tap tap it from time to time. kittiwynk be edge her way out of the scrimmage whisk her stump of a tail with nervous excitement. 
ho. they ve get it she snort. let me out. and she gallop like a rifle bullet just behind a tall lanky pony of the archangel whose rider be swing up his stick for a stroke. 
not to day thank you say hughes a the blow slide off his raise stick and kittiwynk lay her shoulder to the tall pony s quarter and shove him aside just a lutyens on shiraz send the ball where it have come from and the tall pony go skate and slip away to the leave. kittiwynk see that polaris have join cork in the chase for the ball up the grind drop into polaris place and then time be call. 
the skidars pony waste no time in kick or fume. they know that each minute s rest mean so much gain and trot off to the rail and their saises begin to scrape and blanket and rub them at once. 
whew. say cork stiffen up to get all the tickle of the big vulcanite scraper. if we be play pony for pony we would bend those archangel double in half an hour. but they ll bring up fresh one and fresh one and fresh one after that you see. 
who care. say polaris. we ve draw first blood. be my hock swell. 
look puffy say cork. you must have have rather a wipe. don t let it stiffen. you ll be want again in half an hour. 
what s the game like. say the maltese cat. 
grind s like your shoe except where they put too much water on it say kittiwynk. then it s slippery. don t play in the centre. there s a bog there. i don t know how their next four be go to behave but we keep the ball hang and make em lather for nothing. who go out. two arab and a couple of country breds. that s bad. what a comfort it be to wash your mouth out. 
kitty be talk with a neck of a lather cover soda water bottle between her teeth and try to look over her wither at the same time. this give her a very coquettish air. 
what s bad. say grey dawn give to the girth and admire his well set shoulder. 
you arab can t gallop fast enough to keep yourselves warm that s what kitty mean say polaris limp to show that his hock need attention. be you play back grey dawn. 
look like it say grey dawn a lutyens swing himself up. powell mount the rabbit a plain bay country breed much like cork but with mulish ear. macnamara take faiz ullah a handy short back little red arab with a long tail and hughes mount benami an old and sullen brown beast who stand over in front more than a polo pony should. 
benami look like business say shiraz. how s your temper ben. the old campaigner hobble off without answer and the maltese cat look at the new archangel pony prance about on the grind. they be four beautiful black and they saddle big enough and strong enough to eat the skidars team and gallop away with the meal inside them. 
blinker again say the maltese cat. good enough. 
they re charger cavalry charger. say kittiwynk indignantly. they ll never see thirteen three again. 
they ve all be fairly measure and they ve all get their certificate say the maltese cat or they wouldn t be here. we must take thing a they come along and keep your eye on the ball. 
the game begin but this time the skidars be pen to their own end of the grind and the watch pony do not approve of that. 
faiz ullah be shirk a usual say polaris with a scornful grunt. 
faiz ullah be eat whip say cork. they could hear the leather thonged polo quirt lace the little fellow s well round barrel. then the rabbit s shrill neigh come across the grind. 
i can t do all the work he cry desperately. 
play the game don t talk the maltese cat whicker. and all the pony wriggle with excitement and the soldier and the groom grip the railing and shout. a black pony with blinker have single out old benami and be interfere with him in every possible way. they could see benami shake his head up and down and flap his under lip. 
there ll be a fall in a minute say polaris. benami be get stuffy. 
the game flicker up and down between goal post and goal post and the black pony be get more confident a they felt they have the leg of the others. the ball be hit out of a little scrimmage and benami and the rabbit follow it faiz ullah only too glad to be quiet for an instant. 
the blinker black pony come up like a hawk with two of his own side behind him and benami s eye glitter a he race. the question be which pony should make way for the other for each rider be perfectly will to risk a fall in a good cause. the black who have be drive nearly crazy by his blinker trust to his weight and his temper. but benami know how to apply his weight and how to keep his temper. they meet and there be a cloud of dust. the black be lie on his side all the breath knock out of his body. the rabbit be a hundred yard up the grind with the ball and benami be sit down. he have slide nearly ten yard on his tail but he have have his revenge and sit crack his nostril till the black pony rise. 
that s what you get for interfere. do you want any more. say benami and he plunge into the game. nothing be do that quarter because faiz ullah would not gallop though macnamara beat him whenever he could spare a second. the fall of the black pony have impress his companion tremendously and so the archangel could not profit by faiz ullah s bad behaviour. 
but a the maltese cat say when time be call and the four come back blow and drip faiz ullah ought to have be kick all round umballa. if he do not behave good next time the maltese cat promise to pull out his arab tail by the root and eat it. 
there be no time to talk for the third four be order out. 
the third quarter of a game be generally the hot for each side think that the others must be pump. and most of the win play in a game be make about that time. 
lutyens take over the maltese cat with a pat and a hug for lutyens value him more than anything else in the world. powell have shikast a little grey rat with no pedigree and no manner outside polo. macnamara mount bamboo the large of the team. and hughes who s who alias the animal. he be suppose to have australian blood in his vein but he look like a clothe horse and you could whack his leg with an iron crow bar without hurt him. 
they go out to meet the very flower of the archangel team. and when who s who saw their elegantly boot leg and their beautiful satin skin he grin a grin through his light well wear bridle. 
my word. say who s who. we must give em a little football. these gentleman need a rub down. 
no bite say the maltese cat warningly. for once or twice in his career who s who have be know to forget himself in that way. 
who say anything about bite. i m not play tiddly wink. i m play the game. 
the archangel come down like a wolf on the fold for they be tire of football and they want polo. they get it more and more. just after the game begin lutyens hit a ball that be come towards him rapidly and it roll in the air a a ball sometimes will with the whirl of a frighten partridge. shikast hear but could not see it for the minute though he look everywhere and up into the air a the maltese cat have teach him. when he saw it ahead and overhead he go forward with powell a fast a he could put foot to grind. it be then that powell a quiet and level head man a a rule become inspire and play a stroke that sometimes come off successfully after long practice. he take his stick in both hand and stand up in his stirrup swipe at the ball in the air munipore fashion. there be one second of paralyse astonishment and then all four side of the grind go up in a yell of applause and delight a the ball fly true. you could see the amaze archangel duck in their saddle to dodge the line of flight and look at it with open mouth. and the regimental pipe of the skidars squeal from the railing a long a the piper have breath. shikast hear the stroke. but he hear the head of the stick fly off at the same time. nine hundred and ninety nine pony out of a thousand would have go tear on after the ball with a useless player pull at their head. but powell know him and he know powell. and the instant he felt powell s right leg shift a trifle on the saddle flap he head to the boundary where a native officer be frantically wave a new stick. before the shout have end powell be arm again. 
once before in his life the maltese cat have hear that very same stroke play off his own back and have profit by the confusion it work. this time he act on experience and leave bamboo to guard the goal in case of accident come through the others like a flash head and tail low lutyens stand up to ease him sweep on and on before the other side know what be the matter and nearly pitch on his head between the archangel goal post a lutyens kick the ball in after a straight scurry of a hundred and fifty yard. if there be one thing more than another upon which the maltese cat pride himself it be on this quick streak kind of run half across the grind. he do not believe in take ball round the field unless you be clearly overmatched. after this they give the archangel five minuted football. and an expensive fast pony hate football because it rumple his temper. who s who show himself even good than polaris in this game. he do not permit any wriggle away but bore joyfully into the scrimmage a if he have his nose in a fee box and be look for something nice. little shikast jump on the ball the minute it get clear and every time an archangel pony follow it he find shikast stand over it ask what be the matter. 
if we can live through this quarter say the maltese cat i sha n t care. don t take it out of yourselves. let them do the lather. 
so the pony a their rider explain afterwards shut up. the archangel keep them tie fast in front of their goal but it cost the archangel pony all that be leave of their temper. and pony begin to kick and men begin to repeat compliment and they chop at the leg of who s who and he set his teeth and stay where he be and the dust stand up like a tree over the scrimmage until that hot quarter end. 
they find the pony very excite and confident when they go to their saises. and the maltese cat have to warn them that the bad of the game be come. 
now we be all go in for the second time say he and they be trot out fresh pony. you think you can gallop but you ll find you can t. and then you ll be sorry. 
but two goal to nothing be a halter long lead say kittiwynk prance. 
how long doe it take to get a goal. the maltese cat answer. for pity s sake don t run away with a notion that the game be half win just because we happen to be in luck now. they ll ride you into the grand stand if they can. you must not give em a chance. follow the ball. 
football a usual. say polaris. my hock s half a big a a nose bag. 
don t let them have a look at the ball if you can help it. now leave me alone. i must get all the rest i can before the last quarter. 
he hang down his head and let all his muscle go slack shikast bamboo and who s who copy his example. 
good not watch the game he say. we aren t play and we shall only take it out of ourselves if we grow anxious. look at the grind and pretend it s fly time. 
they do their best but it be hard advice to follow. the hoof be drum and the stick be rattle all up and down the grind and yell of applause from the english troop tell that the archangel be press the skidars hard. the native soldier behind the pony groan and grunt and say thing in undertone and presently they hear a long draw shout and a clatter of hurrah. 
one to the archangel say shikast without raise his head. time s nearly up. oh my sire and dam. 
faiz ullah say the maltese cat if you don t play to the last nail in your shoe this time i ll kick you on the grind before all the other pony. 
i ll do my best when my time come say the little arab sturdily. 
the saises look at each other gravely a they rub their pony leg. this be the time when long purse begin to tell and everybody know it. kittiwynk and the others come back the sweat drip over their hoof and their tail tell sad story. 
they re good than we be say shiraz. i know how it would be. 
shut your big head say the maltese cat. we ve one goal to the good yet. 
yes. but it s two arab and two country breds to play now say cork. faiz ullah remember. he speak in a bite voice. 
a lutyens mount grey dawn he look at his men and they do not look pretty. they be cover with dust and sweat in streak. their yellow boot be almost black their wrist be red and lumpy and their eye seem two inch deep in their head. but the expression in the eye be satisfactory. 
do you take anything at tiffin. say lutyens. and the team shake their head. they be too dry to talk. 
all right. the archangel do. they be bad pump than we be. 
they ve get the good pony say powell. i sha n t be sorry when this business be over. 
that fifth quarter be a painful one in every way. faiz ullah play like a little red demon and the rabbit seem to be everywhere at once and benami ride straight at anything and everything that come in his way. while the umpire on their pony wheel like gull outside the shift game. but the archangel have the good mount they have keep their racer till late in the game and never allow the skidars to play football. they hit the ball up and down the width of the grind till benami and the rest be outpace. then they go forward and time and again lutyens and grey dawn be just and only just able to send the ball away with a long spit backhand. grey dawn forget that he be an arab. and turn from grey to blue a he gallop. indeed he forget too well for he do not keep his eye on the grind a an arab should but stick out his nose and scuttle for the dear honour of the game. they have water the grind once or twice between the quarter and a careless waterman have empty the last of his skinful all in one place near the skidars goal. it be close to the end of the play and for the tenth time grey dawn be bolt after the ball when his near hind foot slip on the greasy mud and he roll over and over pitch lutyens just clear of the goal post. and the triumphant archangel make their goal. then time be call two goal all. but lutyens have to be help up and grey dawn rise with his near hind leg strain somewhere. 
what s the damage. say powell his arm around lutyens. 
collar bone of course say lutyens between his teeth. it be the third time he have break it in two year and it hurt him. 
powell and the others whistle. 
game s up say hughes. 
hold on. we ve five good minute yet and it isn t my right hand. we ll stick it out. 
i say say the captain of the archangel trot up be you hurt lutyens. we ll wait if you care to put in a substitute. i wish i mean the fact be you fellow deserve this game if any team doe. wish we could give you a man or some of our pony or something. 
you re awfully good but we ll play it to a finish i think. 
the captain of the archangel star for a little. that s not half bad he say and go back to his own side while lutyens borrow a scarf from one of his native officer and make a sling of it. then an archangel gallop up with a big bath sponge and advise lutyens to put it under his armpit to ease his shoulder and between them they tie up his leave arm scientifically. and one of the native officer leap forward with four long glass that fizz and bubble. 
the team look at lutyens piteously and he nod. it be the last quarter and nothing would matter after that. they drink out the dark golden drink and wipe their moustache and thing look more hopeful. 
the maltese cat have put his nose into the front of lutyens shirt and be try to say how sorry he be. 
he know say lutyens proudly. the beggar know. i ve play him without a bridle before now for fun. 
it s no fun now say powell. but we haven t a decent substitute. 
no say lutyens. it s the last quarter and we ve get to make our goal and win. i ll trust the cat. 
if you fall this time you ll suffer a little say macnamara. 
i ll trust the cat say lutyens. 
you hear that. say the maltese cat proudly to the others. it s worth while play polo for ten year to have that say of you. now then my son come along. we ll kick up a little bite just to show the archangel this team haven t suffer. 
and sure enough a they go on to the grind the maltese cat after satisfy himself that lutyens be home in the saddle kick out three or four time and lutyens laugh. the rein be catch up anyhow in the tip of his strap leave hand and he never pretend to rely on them. he know the cat would answer to the least pressure of the leg and by way of show off for his shoulder hurt him very much he bend the little fellow in a close figure of eight in and out between the goal post. there be a roar from the native officer and men who dearly love a piece of dugabashi. horse trick work. a they call it and the pipe very quietly and scornfully drone out the first bar of a common bazaar tune call freshly fresh and newly new just a a warn to the other regiment that the skidars be fit. all the native laugh. 
and now say the maltese cat a they take their place remember that this be the last quarter and follow the ball. 
don t need to be tell say who s who. 
let me go on. all those people on all four side will begin to crowd in just a they do at malta. you ll hear people call out and move forward and be push back. and that be go to make the archangel pony very unhappy. but if a ball be strike to the boundary you go after it and let the people get out of your way. i go over the pole of a four in hand once and pick a game out of the dust by it. back me up when i run and follow the ball. 
there be a sort of an all round sound of sympathy and wonder a the last quarter open and then there begin exactly what the maltese cat have foresee. people crowd in close to the boundary and the archangel pony keep look sideways at the narrow space. if you know how a man feel to be cramp at tennis not because he want to run out of the court but because he like to know that he can at a pinch you will guess how pony must feel when they be play in a box of human being. 
i ll bend some of those men if i can get away say who s who a he rocket behind the ball. and bamboo nod without speak. they be play the last ounce in them and the maltese cat have leave the goal undefended to join them. lutyens give him every order that he could to bring him back but this be the first time in his career that the little wise grey have ever play polo on his own responsibility and he be go to make the most of it. 
what be you do here. say hughes a the cat cross in front of him and ride off an archangel. 
the cat s in charge mind the goal. shout lutyens and bow forward hit the ball full and follow on force the archangel towards their own goal. 
no football say the maltese cat. keep the ball by the boundary and cramp em. play open order and drive em to the boundary. 
across and across the grind in big diagonal fly the ball and whenever it come to a fly rush and a stroke close to the boundary the archangel pony move stiffly. they do not care to go headlong at a wall of men and carriage though if the grind have be open they could have turn on a sixpence. 
wriggle her up the side say the cat. keep her close to the crowd. they hate the carriage. shikast keep her up this side. 
shikast and powell lay leave and right behind the uneasy scuffle of an open scrimmage and every time the ball be hit away shikast gallop on it at such an angle that powell be force to hit it towards the boundary. and when the crowd have be drive away from that side lutyens would send the ball over to the other and shikast would slide desperately after it till his friend come down to help. it be billiards and no football this time billiards in a corner pocket. and the cue be not well chalk. 
if they get u out in the middle of the grind they ll walk away from u. dribble her along the side cry the maltese cat. 
so they dribble all along the boundary where a pony could not come on their right hand side. and the archangel be furious and the umpire have to neglect the game to shout at the people to get back and several blunder mount policeman try to restore order all close to the scrimmage and the nerve of the archangel pony stretch and break like cob web. 
five or six time an archangel hit the ball up into the middle of the grind and each time the watchful shikast give powell his chance to send it back and after each return when the dust have settle men could see that the skidars have gain a few yard. 
every now and again there be shout of side. off side. from the spectator. but the team be too busy to care and the umpire have all they could do to keep their madden pony clear of the scuffle. 
at last lutyens miss a short easy stroke and the skidars have to fly back helter skelter to protect their own goal shikast lead. powell stop the ball with a backhand when it be not fifty yard from the goalpost and shikast spin round with a wrench that nearly hoist powell out of his saddle. 
now s our last chance say the cat wheel like a cockchafer on a pin. we ve get to ride it out. come along. 
lutyens felt the little chap take a deep breath and a it be crouch under his rider. the ball be hop towards the right hand boundary an archangel rid for it with both spur and a whip. but neither spur nor whip would make his pony stretch himself a he near the crowd. the maltese cat glide under his very nose pick up his hind leg sharp for there be not a foot to spare between his quarter and the other pony s bite. it be a neat an exhibition a fancy figure skate. lutyens hit with all the strength he have leave but the stick slip a little in his hand and the ball fly off to the leave instead of keep close to the boundary. who s who be far across the grind think hard a he gallop. he repeat stride for stride the cat s manoeuvre with another archangel pony nip the ball away from under his bridle and clear his opponent by half a fraction of an inch for who s who be clumsy behind. then he drive away towards the right a the maltese cat come up from the leave. and bamboo hold a middle course exactly between them. the three be make a sort of government broad arrow shape attack. and there be only the archangel back to guard the goal. but immediately behind them be three archangel race all they know and mix up with them be powell send shikast along on what he felt be their last hope. it take a very good man to stand up to the rush of seven crazy pony in the last quarter of a cup game when men be rid with their neck for sale and the pony be delirious. the archangel back miss his stroke and pull aside just in time to let the rush go by. bamboo and who s who shorten stride to give the cat room and lutyens get the goal with a clean smooth smack stroke that be hear all over the field. but there be no stop the pony. they pour through the goalpost in one mix mob winner and loser together for the pace have be terrific. the maltese cat know by experience what would happen and to save lutyens turn to the right with one last effort that strain a back sinew beyond hope of repair. a he do so he hear the right hand goalpost crack a a pony cannon into it crack splinter and fall like a mast. it have be saw three part through in case of accident but it upset the pony nevertheless and he blunder into another who blunder into the leave hand post and then there be confusion and dust and wood. bamboo be lie on the grind see star. an archangel pony roll beside him breathless and angry. shikast have sit down dog fashion to avoid fall over the others and be slide along on his little bobtail in a cloud of dust. and powell be sit on the grind hammer with his stick and try to cheer. all the others be shout at the top of what be leave of their voice and the men who have be spill be shout too. a soon a the people saw no one be hurt ten thousand native and english shout and clap and yell and before any one could stop them the piper of the skidars break on to the grind with all the native officer and men behind them and march up and down play a wild northern tune call zakhme begin and through the insolent blare of the pipe and the high pitch native yell you could hear the archangel band hammer for they be all jolly good fellow and then reproachfully to the lose team ooh kafoozalum. kafoozalum. kafoozalum. 
besides all these thing and many more there be a commander in chief and an inspector general of cavalry and the principal veterinary officer of all india stand on the top of a regimental coach yell like school boy. and brigadier and colonel and commissioner and hundred of pretty lady join the chorus. but the maltese cat stand with his head down wonder how many leg be leave to him. and lutyens watch the men and pony pick themselves out of the wreck of the two goal post and he pat the maltese cat very tenderly. 
i say say the captain of the archangel spit a pebble out of his mouth will you take three thousand for that pony a he stand. 
no thank you. i ve an idea he s save my life say lutyens get off and lie down at full length. both team be on the grind too wave their boot in the air and cough and draw deep breath a the saises run up to take away the pony and an officious water carrier sprinkle the player with dirty water till they sit up. 
my aunt. say powell rub his back and look at the stump of the goal post that be a game. 
they play it over again every stroke of it that night at the big dinner when the free for all cup be fill and pass down the table and empty and fill again and everybody make most eloquent speech. about two in the morning when there might have be some sing a wise little plain little grey little head look in through the open door. 
hurrah. bring him in say the archangel. and his sais who be very happy indeed pat the maltese cat on the flank and he limp in to the blaze of light and the glitter uniform look for lutyens. he be use to mess and men s bedroom and place where pony be not usually encourage and in his youth have jump on and off a mess table for a bet. so he behave himself very politely and eat bread dip in salt and be pet all round the table move gingerly. and they drink his health because he have do more to win the cup than any man or horse on the grind. 
that be glory and honour enough for the rest of his day and the maltese cat do not complain much when the veterinary surgeon say that he would be no good for polo any more. when lutyens marry his wife do not allow him to play so he be force to be an umpire. and his pony on these occasion be a flea bite grey with a neat polo tail lame all round but desperately quick on his foot and a everybody know past pluperfect prestissimo player of the game. 
bread upon the water. 
if you remember my improper friend brugglesmith you will also bear in mind his friend mcphee chief engineer of the breslau whose dingey brugglesmith try to steal. his apology for the performance of brugglesmith may one day be tell in their proper place. the tale before u concern mcphee. he be never a race engineer and take special pride in say a much before the liverpool men. but he have a thirty two year knowledge of machinery and the humour of ship. one side of his face have be wreck through the burst of a pressure gauge in the day when men know le than they do now and his nose rise grandly out of the wreck like a club in a public riot. there be cut and lump on his head and he would guide your forefinger through his short iron grey hair and tell you how he have come by his trade mark. he own all sort of certificate of extra competency and at the bottom of his cabin chest of drawer where he keep the photograph of his wife be two or three royal humane society medal for save life at sea. professionally it be different when crazy steerage passenger jump overboard professionally mcphee doe not approve of save life at sea and he ha often tell me that a new hell await stoker and trimmer who sign for a strong man s pay and fall sick the second day out. he belief in throw boot at fourth and fifth engineer when they wake him up at night with word that a bear be redhot all because a lamp s glare be reflect red from the twirl metal. he belief that there be only two poet in the world. one be robert burn of course and the other gerald massey. when he ha time for novel he read wilkie collins and charles reade chiefly the latter and know whole page of very hard cash by heart. in the saloon his table be next to the captain s and he drink only water while his engine work. 
he be good to me when we first meet because i do not ask question and believe in charles reade a a most shamefully neglect author. late he approve of my writing to the extent of one pamphlet of twenty four page that i write for holdock steiner & chase owner of the line when they buy some ventilate patent and fit it to the cabin of the breslau spandau and koltzau. the purser of the breslau recommend me to holdock s secretary for the job. and holdock who be a wesleyan methodist invite me to his house and give me dinner with the govern when the others have finish and place the plan and specification in my hand and i write the pamphlet that same afternoon. it be call comfort in the cabin and bring me seven pound ten cash down an important sum of money in those day. and the govern who be teach master john holdock his scale tell me that mr. holdock have tell her to keep an eye on me in case i go away with coat from the hat rack. mcphee like that pamphlet enormously for it be compose in the bouverie byzantine style with baroque and rococo embellishment. and afterwards he introduce me to mr. mcphee who succeed dinah in my heart. for dinah be half a world away and it be wholesome and antiseptic to love such a woman a janet mcphee. they live in a little twelve pound house close to the ship. when mcphee be away mr. mcphee read the lloyd column in the paper and call on the wife of senior engineer of equal social stand. once or twice too mr. holdock visit mr. mcphee in a brougham with celluloid fitting and i have reason to believe that after she have play owner s wife long enough they talk scandal. the holdocks live in an old fashion house with a big brick garden not a mile from the mcphees for they stay by their money a their money stay by them. and in summer you meet their brougham solemnly junket by theydon bois or loughton. but i be mr. mcphee s friend for she allow me to convoy her westward sometimes to theatre where she sob or laugh or shiver with a simple heart. and she introduce me to a new world of doctor wife captain wife and engineer wife whose whole talk and think centre in and about ship and line of ship you have never hear of. there be sail ship with steward and mahogany and maple saloon trade to australia take cargo of consumptive and hopeless drunkard for whom a sea voyage be recommend. there be frowzy little west african boat full of rat and cockroach where men die anywhere but in their bunk. there be brazilian boat whose cabin could be hire for merchandise that go out load nearly awash. there be zanzibar and mauritius steamer and wonderful reconstruct boat that ply to the other tide of borneo. these be love and know for they earn our bread and a little butter and we despise the big atlantic boat and make fun of the p. & o. and orient liner and swear by our respective owner wesleyan baptist or presbyterian a the case might be. 
i have only just come back to england when mr. mcphee invite me to dinner at three o clock in the afternoon and the notepaper be almost bridal in it scent creaminess. when i reach the house i saw that there be new curtain in the window that must have cost forty five shilling a pair. and a mr. mcphee draw me into the little marble paper hall she look at me keenly and cry. 
have ye not hear. what d ye think o the hatrack. 
now that hat rack be oak thirty shilling at least. mcphee come down stair with a sober foot he step a lightly a a cat for all his weight when he be at sea and shake hand in a new and awful manner a parody of old holdock s style when he say good bye to his skipper. i perceive at once that a legacy have come to him but i hold my peace though mr. mcphee beg me every thirty second to eat a great deal and say nothing. it be rather a mad sort of meal because mcphee and his wife take hold of hand like little child. they always do after voyage. and nod and wink and choke and gurgle and hardly eat a mouthful. 
a female servant come in and wait. though mr. mcphee have tell me time and again that she would thank no one to do her housework while she have her health. but this be a servant with a cap and i saw mr. mcphee swell and swell under her garance colour gown. there be no small free board to janet mcphee nor be garance any subdue tint. and with all this unexplained pride and glory in the air i felt like watch firework without know the festival. when the maid have remove the cloth she bring a pineapple that would have cost half a guinea at that season. only mcphee ha his own way of get such thing. and a canton china bowl of dry lichi and a glass plate of preserve ginger and a small jar of sacred and imperial chow chow that perfume the room. mcphee get it from a dutchman in java and i think he doctor it with liqueur. but the crown of the feast be some madeira of the kind you can only come by if you know the wine and the man. a little maize wrap fig of clot madeira cigar go with the wine and the rest be a pale blue smoky silence. janet in her splendour smile on u two and pat mcphee s hand. 
we ll drink say mcphee slowly rub his chin to the eternal damnation o holdock steiner & chase. 
of course i answer amen though i have make seven pound ten shilling out of the firm. mcphee s enemy be mine and i be drink his madeira. 
ye ve hear nothing. say janet. not a word not a whisper. 
not a word nor a whisper. on my word i have not. 
tell him mac say she. and that be another proof of janet s goodness and wifely love. a small woman would have babble first but janet be five foot nine in her stocking. 
we re rich say mcphee. i shake hand all round. 
we re damn rich he add. i shake hand all round a second time. 
i ll go to sea no more unless there s no sayin a private yacht maybe wi a small an handy auxiliary. 
it s not enough for that say janet. we re fair rich well to do but no more. a new gown for church and one for the theatre. we ll have it make west. 
how much be it. i ask. 
twenty five thousand pound. i draw a long breath. an i ve be earnin twenty five an twenty pound a month. 
the last word come away with a roar a though the wide world be conspire to beat him down. 
all this time i m wait i say. i know nothing since last september. be it leave you. 
they laugh aloud together. it be leave say mcphee choke. ou ay it be leave. that s vara good. of course it be leave. janet d ye note that. it be leave. now if you d put that in your pamphlet it would have be vara jocose. it be leave. he slap his thigh and roar till the wine quiver in the decanter. 
the scotch be a great people but they be apt to hang over a joke too long particularly when no one can see the point but themselves. 
when i rewrite my pamphlet i ll put it in mcphee. only i must know something more first. 
mcphee think for the length of half a cigar while janet catch my eye and lead it round the room to one new thing after another the new vine pattern carpet the new chime rustic clock between the model of the colombo outrigger boat the new inlay sideboard with a purple cut glass flower stand the fender of gild and brass and last the new black and gold piano. 
in october o last year the board sack me begin mcphee. in october o last year the breslau come in for winter overhaul. she d be runnin eight month two hunder an forty day an i be three day makin up my indent when she go to dry dock. all tell mark you it be this side o three hunder pound to be preceese two hunder an eighty six pound four shilling. there s not another man could ha nurse the breslau for eight month to that tune. never again never again. they may send their boat to the bottom for aught i care. 
there s no need say janet softly. we re do wi holdock steiner & chase. 
it s irritatin janet it s just irritatin. i ha be justify from first to last a the world know but but i canna forgie em. ay wisdom be justify o her child. an any other man than me wad ha make the indent eight hunder. hay be our skipper ye ll have meet him. they shift him to the torgau an bid me wait for the breslau under young bannister. ye ll obsairve there d be a new election on the board. i hear the share be sellin hither an yon an the major part of the board be new to me. the old board would ne er ha do it. they trust me. but the new board be all for reorganisation. young steiner steiner s son the jew be at the bottom of it an they do not think it worth their while to send me word. the first i know an i be chief engineer be the notice of the line s winter sailin s and the breslau time for sixteen day between port an port. sixteen day man. she s a good boat but eighteen be her summer time mark you. sixteen be sheer flytin kitin nonsense an so i tell young bannister. 
we ve get to make it he say. ye should not ha send in a three hunder pound indent. 
do they look for their boat to be run on air. i say. the board s daft. 
e en tell em so he say. i m a marry man an my fourth s on the way now she say. 
a boy wi red hair janet put in. her own hair be the splendid red gold that go with a creamy complexion. 
my word i be an angry man that day. forbye i be fond o the old breslau i look for a little consideration from the board after twenty year service. there be board meetin on wednesday an i sleep overnight in the engine room takin figure to support my case. well i put it fair and square before them all. gentleman i say i ve run the breslau eight season an i believe there s no fault to find wi my wark. but if ye haud to this i waggle the advertisement at em this that i ve never hear of it till i read it at breakfast i do assure you on my professional reputation she can never do it. that be to say she can for a while but at a risk no thinkin man would run. 
what the deil d ye suppose we pas your indent for. say old holdock. man we re spendin money like watter. 
i ll leave it in the board s hand i say if two hunder an eighty seven pound be anything beyond right and reason for eight month. i might ha save my breath for the board be new since the last election an there they sit the damn deevidend huntin ship chandler deaf a the adder o scripture. 
we must keep faith wi the public say young steiner. 
keep faith wi the breslau then i say. she s serve you well an your father before you. she ll need her bottom restiffenin an new bed plate an turnin out the forward boiler an re turnin all three cylinder an refacin all guide to begin with. it s a three month job. 
because one employee be afraid. say young steiner. maybe a piano in the chief engineer s cabin would be more to the point. 
i crush my cap in my hand an thank god we d no bairn an a bite put by. 
understand gentleman i say. if the breslau be make a sixteen day boat ye ll find another engineer. 
bannister make no objection say holdock. 
i m speakin for myself i say. bannister ha bairn. an then i lose my temper. ye can run her into hell an out again if ye pay pilotage i say but ye run without me. 
that s insolence say young steiner. 
at your pleasure i say turnin to go. 
ye can consider yourself dismiss. we must preserve discipline among our employee say old holdock an he look round to see that the board be with him. they know nothin god forgie em an they nod me out o the line after twenty year after twenty year. 
i go out an sit down by the hall porter to get my wit again. i m thinkin i swear at the board. then auld mcrimmon o mcnaughten & mcrimmon come oot o his office that s on the same floor an look at me proppin up one eyelid wi his forefinger. ye know they call him the blind deevil forbye he onythin but blind an no deevil in his dealin s wi me mcrimmon o the black bird line. 
what s here mister mcphee. say he. 
i be past prayin for by then. a chief engineer sack after twenty year service because he ll not risk the breslau on the new timin an be damn to ye mcrimmon i say. 
the auld man suck in his lip an whistle. ah say he the new timin. i see. he dodder into the board room i d just leave an the dandie dog that be just his blind man s leader stay wi me. that be providential. in a minute he be back again. ye ve cast your bread on the watter mcphee an be damn to you he say. whaur s my dog. my word be he on your knee. there s more discernment in a dog than a jew. what garred ye curse your board mcphee. it s expensive. 
they ll pay more for the breslau i say. get off my knee ye smotherin beast. 
bearin s hot eh. say mcrimmon. it s thirty year since a man daur curse me to my face. time be i d ha cast ye doon the stairway for that. 
forgie s all. i say. he be wearin to eighty a i know. i be wrong mcrimmon. but when a man s show the door for doin his plain duty he s not always ceevil. 
so i hear say mcrimmon. ha ye ony objection to a tramp freighter. it s only fifteen a month but they say the blind deevil feed a man good than others. she s my kite. come ben. ye can thank dandie here. i m no use to thank. an noo say he what possess ye to throw up your berth wi holdock. 
the new timin say i. the breslau will not stand it. 
hoot oot say he. ye might ha cram her a little enough to show ye be drivin her an bring her in twa day behind. what s easy than to say ye slow for bearin s eh. all my men do it and i believe em. 
mcrimmon say i what s her virginity to a lassie. 
he pucker his dry face an twist in his chair. the warld an a say he. my god the vara warld an a. but what ha you or me to do wi virginity this late along. 
this i say. there s just one thing that each one of u in his trade or profession will not do for ony consideration whatever. if i run to time i run to time barrio always the risk o the high sea. le than that under god i have not do. more than that by god i will not do. there s no trick o the trade i m not acquaint wi. 
so i ve hear say mcrimmon dry a a biscuit. 
but yon matter o fair rennin s just my shekinah ye ll understand. i daurna tamper wi that. nurse weak engine be fair craftsmanship. but what the board ask be cheatin wi the risk o manslaughter addeetional. ye ll note i know my business. 
there be some more talk an next week i go aboard the kite twenty five hunder ton simple compound a black bird tramp. the deep she ride the good she d steam. i ve snap a much a eleven out of her but eight point three be her fair normal. good food forward an good aft all indent pass wi out marginal remark the best coal new donkey and good crew. there be nothin the old man would not do except paint. that be his deeficulty. ye could no more draw paint than his last teeth from him. he d come down to dock an his boat a scandal all along the watter an he d whine an cry an say they look all he could desire. every owner ha his non plus ultra i ve obsairved. paint be mcrimmon s. but you could get round his engine without riskin your life an for all his blindness i ve see him reject five flaw intermediate one after the other on a nod from me. an his cattle fittin s be guarantee for north atlantic winter weather. ye ken what that mean. mcrimmon an the black bird line god bless him. 
oh i forget to say she would lie down an fill her forward deck green an snore away into a twenty knot gale forty five to the minute three an a half knot an hour the engine runnin sweet an true a a bairn breathin in it sleep. bell be skipper. an forbye there s no love lose between crew an owner we be fond o the auld blind deevil an his dog an i m thinkin he like u. he be worth the windy side o twa million sterlin an no friend to his own blood kin. money s an awfu thing overmuch for a lonely man. 
i d take her out twice there an back again when word come o the breslau s breakdown just a i prophesy. calder be her engineer he s not fit to run a tug down the solent and he fairly lift the engine off the bed plate an they fell down in heap by what i hear. so she fill from the after stuffin box to the after bulkhead an lay star gaze with seventy nine squealin passenger in the saloon till the camaralzaman o ramsey & gold s cartagena line give her a tow to the tune o five thousand seven hunder an forty pound wi cost in the admiralty court. she be helpless ye ll understand an in no case to meet ony weather. five thousand seven hunder an forty pound with cost an exclusive o new engine. they d ha do good to ha keep me on the old timin. 
but even so the new board be all for retrenchment. young steiner the jew be at the bottom of it. they sack men right an leave that would not eat the dirt the board give em. they cut down repair. they feed crew wi leavin s an scrapin s. and reversin mcrimmon s practice they hide their defeeciencies wi paint an cheap gildin. quem deus vult perrdere prrius dementat ye remember. 
in january we go to dry dock an in the next dock lay the grotkau their big freighter that be the dolabella o piegan piegan & walsh s line in a clyde build iron boat a flat bottom pigeon breast under engined bull nose bitch of a five thousand ton freighter that would neither steer nor steam nor stop when ye ask her. while she d attend to her helm while she d take charge while she d wait to scratch herself an while she d buttock into a dockhead. but holdock and steiner have buy her cheap and paint her all over like the hoor o babylon an we call her the hoor for short. by the way mcphee keep to that name throughout the rest of his tale. so you must read accordingly. i go to see young bannister he have to take what the board give him an he an calder be shift together from the breslau to this abortion an talkin to him i go into the dock under her. her plate be pit till the men that be paint paint paintin her laugh at it. but the warst be at the last. she d a great clumsy iron twelve foot thresher propeller aitcheson design the kite and just on the tail o the shaft behind the bos be a red weepin crack ye could ha put a penknife to. man it be an awful crack. 
when d ye ship a new tail shaft. i say to bannister. 
he know what i mean. oh yon s a superfeecial flaw say he not lookin at me. 
superfeecial gehenna. i say. ye ll not take her oot wi a solution o continuity that like. 
they ll putty it up this even he say. i m a marry man an ye use to know the board. 
i e en say what be gi me in that hour. ye know how a drydock echo. i saw young steiner standin listenin above me an man he use language provocative of a breach o the peace. i be a spy and a disgrace employ an a corrupt o young bannister s moral an he d prosecute me for libel. he go away when i run up the step i d ha throw him into the dock if i d catch him an there i meet mcrimmon wi dandie pullin on the chain guidin the auld man among the railway line. 
mcphee say he ye re no pay to fight holdock steiner chase & company limit when ye meet. what s wrong between you. 
no more than a tail shaft rotten a a kail stump. for ony sake go an look mcrimmon. it s a comedietta. 
i m fear o yon conversational hebrew say he. whaur s the flaw an what like. 
a seven inch crack just behind the bos. there s no power on earth will fend it just jarrin off. 
when. 
that s beyon my knowledge i say. 
so it be. so it be say mcrimmon. we ve all oor leemitations. ye re certain it be a crack. 
man it s a crevasse i say for there be no word to describe the magnitude of it. an young bannister s sayin it s no more than a superfeecial flaw. 
weell i tak it oor business be to mind oor business. if ye ve ony friend aboard her mcphee why not bid them to a bite dinner at radley s. 
i be thinkin o tea in the cuddy i say. engineer o tramp freighter cannot afford hotel price. 
na. na. say the auld man whimperin. not the cuddy. they ll laugh at my kite for she s no plaster with paint like the hoor. bid them to radley s mcphee an send me the bill. thank dandie here man. i m no use to thank. then he turn him round. i be just thinkin the vara same thing. mister mcphee say he this be not senile dementia. 
preserve s. i say clean jump oot o mysel. i be but thinkin you re fey mcrimmon. 
dod the auld deevil laugh till he nigh sit down on dandie. send me the bill say he. i m long past champagne but tell me how it taste the morn. 
bell and i bid young bannister and calder to dinner at radley s. they ll have no laughin an singin there but we take a private room like yacht owner fra cow. 
mcphee grin all over and lay back to think. 
and then. say i. 
we be no drink in ony preceese sense o the word but radley s show me the dead men. there be six magnum o dry champagne an maybe a bottle o whisky. 
do you mean to tell me that you four get away with a magnum and a half a piece besides whisky. i demand. 
mcphee look down upon me from between his shoulder with toleration. 
man we be not settin down to drink he say. they no more than make u wutty. to be sure young bannister lay his head on the table an greet like a bairn an calder be all for callin on steiner at two in the morn an paint him galley green. but they d be drinkin the afternoon. lord how they twa curse the board an the grotkau an the tail shaft an the engine an a. they didna talk o superfeecial flaw that night. i mind young bannister an calder shakin hand on a bond to be revenge on the board at ony reasonable cost this side o lose their certificate. now mark ye how false economy ruin business. the board feed them like swine. i have good reason to know it. an i ve obsairved wi my ain people that if ye touch his stomach ye wauken the deil in a scot. men will tak a dredger across the atlantic if they re well feed an fetch her somewhere on the broadside o the america. but bad food s bad service the warld over. 
the bill go to mcrimmon an he say no more to me till the week end when i be at him for more paint for we d hear the kite be charter liverpool side. bide whaur ye re put say the blind deevil. man do ye wash in champagne. the kite s no leavin here till i gie the order an how be i to waste paint onher wi the lammergeyer dock for who know how long an a. 
she be our big freighter mcintyre be engineer an i know she d come from overhaul not three month. that morn i meet mcrimmon s head clerk ye ll not know him fair bitin his nail off wi mortification. 
the auld man s go gyte say he. he s withdraw the lammergeyer. 
maybe he ha reason say i. 
reason. he s daft. 
he ll no be daft till he begin to paint i say. 
that s just what he s do and south american freight high than we ll live to see them again. he s lay her up to paint her to paint her to paint her. say the little clerk dancin like a hen on a hot plate. five thousand ton o potential freight rottin in drydock man. an he dolin the paint out in quarter pound tin for it cut him to the heart mad though he be. an the grotkau the grotkau of all conceivable bottom soak up every pound that should be ours at liverpool. 
i be stagger wi this folly considerin the dinner at radley s in connection wi the same. 
ye may well stare mcphee say the head clerk. there s engine an rollin stock an iron bridgesd ye know what freight be noo. an piano an millinery an fancy brazil cargo o every specie pourin into the grotkau the grotkau o the jerusalem firm and the lammergeyer s bein paint. 
losh i think he d drop dead wi the fit. 
i could say no more than obey order if ye break owner but on the kite we believe mcrimmon be mad. an mcintyre of the lammergeyer be for lockin him up by some patent legal process he d find in a book o maritime law. an a that week south american freight rise an rise. it be sinfu. 
syne bell get order to tak the kite round to liverpool in water ballast and mcrimmon come to bid s good bye yammerin an whinin o er the acre o paint he d lavish on the lammergeyer. 
i look to you to retrieve it say he. i look to you to reimburse me. fore god why be ye not cast off. be ye dawdlin in dock for a purpose. 
what odds mcrimmon. say bell. we ll be a day behind the fair at liverpool. the grotkau s get all the freight that might ha be ours an the lammergeyer s. mcrimmon laugh an chuckle the pairfect eemage o senile dementia. ye ken his eyebrow wark up an down like a gorilla s. 
ye re under seal order say he tee heein an scratchin himself. yon s they to be open seriatim. 
say bell shufflin the envelope when the auld man have go ashore. we re to creep round a the south coast standin in for order his weather too. there s no question o his lunacy now. 
well we buttocked the auld kite along vara bad weather we make standin in all alongside for telegraphic order which be the curse o skipper. syne we make over to holyhead an bell open the last envelope for the last instruction. i be wi him in the cuddy an he throw it over to me cryin. do ye ever know the like mac. 
i ll no say what mcrimmon have write but he be far from mad. there be a sou west brewin when we make the mouth o the mersey a bitter cold morn wi a grey green sea and a grey green sky liverpool weather a they say. an there we lay choppin an the crew swear. ye canna keep secret aboard ship. they think mcrimmon be mad too. 
syne we saw the grotkau rollin oot on the top o flood deep an double deep wi her new paint funnel an her new paint boat an a. she look her name an moreover she cough like it. calder tauld me at radley s what ail his engine but my own ear would ha tell me twa mile awa by the beat o them. round we come plungin an squatterin in her wake an the wind cut wi good promise o more to come. by six it blow hard but clear an before the middle watch it be a sou west in airnest. 
she ll edge into ireland this gait say bell. i be with him on the bridge watchin the grotkau s port light. ye canna see green so far a red or we d ha keep to leeward. we d no passenger to consider an. all eye be on the grotkau. we fair walk into a liner rampin home to liverpool. or to be preceese bell no more than twist the kite oot from under her bow and there be a little damnin betwix the twa bridge. noo a passenger mcphee regard me benignantly wad ha tell the paper that a soon a he get to the custom. we stick to the grotkau s tail that night an the next twa day she slow down to five knot by my reckonin and we lap along the weary way to the fastnet. 
but you don t go by the fastnet to get to any south american port do you. i say. 
we do not. we prefer to go a direct a may be. but we be followin the grotkau an she d no walk into that gale for ony consideration. knowin what i do to her discredit i couldna blame young bannister. it be warkin up to a north atlantic winter gale snow an sleet an a perishin wind. eh it be like the deil walkin abroad o the surface o the deep whuppin off the top o the wave before he make up his mind. they d bore up against it so far but the minute she be clear o the skelligs she fair tuck up her skirt an run for it by dunmore head. wow she roll. 
she ll be makin smerwick say bell. 
she d ha try for ventry by noo if she mean that i say. 
they ll roll the funnel oot o her this gait say bell. why canna bannister keep her head to sea. 
it s the tail shaft. ony rollin s good than pitchin wi superfeecial crack in the tail shaft. calder know that much i say. 
it s ill wark retreevin steamer this weather say bell. his beard and whisker be freeze to his oilskin an the spray be white on the weather side of him. pairfect north atlantic winter weather. 
one by one the sea raxed away our three boat an the davit be crumple like ram s horn. 
yon s bad say bell at the last. ye canna pas a hawser wi oot a boat. bell be a vara judeecious man for an aberdonian. 
i m not one that fashes himself for eventuality outside the engine room so i e en slip down betwixt wave to see how the kite fare. man she s the best gear boat of her class that ever leave clyde. kinloch my second know her a well a i do. i find him dryin his sock on the main steam an combin his whisker wi the comb janet gi me last year for the warld an a a though we be in port. i try the fee speered into the stoke hole thumb all bearin s spat on the thrust for luck gi em my blessin an take kinloch s sock before i go up to the bridge again. 
then bell hand me the wheel an go below to warm himself. when he come up my glove be freeze to the spoke an the ice click over my eyelid. pairfect north atlantic winter weather a i be sayin. 
the gale blow out by night but we lay in smotherin cross sea that make the auld kite chatter from stem to stern. i slow to thirty four i mind no thirty seven. there be a long swell the morn an the grotkau be headin into it west awa. 
she ll win to rio yet tail shaft or no tail shaft say bell. 
last night shake her i say. she ll jar it off yet mark my word. 
we be then maybe a hunder and fifty mile westsou west o slyne head by dead reckonin. next day we make a hunder an thirty ye ll note we be not racin boat an the day after a hunder an sixty one an that make u we ll say eighteen an a bittock west an maybe fifty one an a bittock north crossin all the north atlantic liner lane on the long slant always in sight o the grotkau creepin up by night and fallin awa by day. after the gale it be cold weather wi dark night. 
i be in the engine room on friday night just before the middle watch when bell whustled down the tube. she s do it. an up i come. 
the grotkau be just a fair distance south an one by one she run up the three red light in a vertical line the sign of a steamer not under control. 
yon s a tow for u say bell lickin his chop. she ll be worth more than the breslau. we ll go down to her mcphee. 
bide a while i say. the sea fair throng wi ship here. 
reason why say bell. it s a fortune gaun beggin. what d ye think man. 
gie her till daylight. she know we re here. if bannister need help he ll loose a rocket. 
wha tell ye bannister s need. we ll ha some rag an bone tramp snappin her up under oor nose say he. an he put the wheel over. we be goin slow. 
bannister wad like good to go home on a liner an eat in the saloon. mind ye what they say o holdock & steiner s food that night at radley s. keep her awa man keep her awa. a tow s a tow but a derelict s big salvage. 
e eh. say bell. yon s an inshot o yours mac. i love ye like a brother. we ll bide whaur we be till daylight. an he keep her awa. 
syne up go a rocket forward an twa on the bridge an a blue light aft. syne a tar barrel forward again. 
she s sinkin say bell. it s all gaun an i ll get no more than a pair o night glass for pickin up young bannister the fool. 
fair an soft again i say. she s signallin to the south of u. bannister know a well a i that one rocket would bring the breslau. he ll no be wastin firework for nothin. hear her ca. 
the grotkau whustled an whustled for five minute an then there be more firework a regular exhibeetion. 
that s no for men in the regular trade say bell. ye re right mac. that s for a cuddy full o passenger. he blink through the night glass when it lay a bite thick to southward. 
what d ye make of it. i say. 
liner he say. yon s her rocket. ou ay. they ve waukened the gold strap skipper an noo they ve waukened the passenger. they re turnin on the electric cabin by cabin. yon s anither rocket. they re comin up to help the perishin in deep watters. 
gie me the glass i say. but bell dance on the bridge clean dementit. mail mail mail. say he. under contract wi the government for the due conveyance o the mail. an a such mac yell note she may rescue life at sea but she canna tow. she canna tow. yon s her night signal. she ll be up in half an hour. 
gowk. i say an we blazin here wi all oor light. oh bell ye re a fool. 
he tumble off the bridge forward an i tumble aft an before ye could wink our light be oot the engine room hatch be cover an we lay pitch dark watchin the light o the liner come up that the grotkau d be signallin to. twenty knot an hour she come every cabin light an her boat swing awa. it be grandly do an in the inside of an hour. she stop like mr. holdock s machine. down go the gangway down go the boat an in ten minute we hear the passenger cheerin an awa she flee. 
they ll tell o this all the day they live say bell. a rescue at sea by night a pretty a a play. young bannister an calder will be drinkin in the saloon an six month hence the board o trade ll gie the skipper a pair o binoculars. it s vara philanthropic all round. 
we ll lay by till day ye may think we wait for it wi sore eye an there sit the grotkau her nose a bite cock just leerin at u. she look paifectly ridiculous. 
she ll be fillin aft say bell. for why be she down by the stern. the tail shaft s punch a hole in her an we ve no boat. there s three hunder thousand pound sterlin at a conservative estimate droonin before our eye. what s to do. an his bearin s get hot again in a minute. he be an incontinent man. 
run her a near a ye daur i say. gie me a jacket an a lifeline an i ll swim for it. there be a bite lump of a sea an it be cold in the wind vara cold. but they d go overside like passenger young bannister an calder an a leave the gangway down on the lee side. it would ha be a flyin in the face o manifest providence to overlook the invitation. we be within fifty yard o her while kinloch be garmin me all over wi oil behind the galley. an a we run past i go outboard for the salvage o three hunder thousand pound. man it be perishin cold but i d do my job judgmatically an come scrapin all along her side slap on to the low gratin o the gangway. no one more astonish than me i assure ye. before i d catch my breath i d skin both my knee on the gratin an be climbin up before she roll again. i make my line fast to the rail an squattered aft to young bannister s cabin whaaur i dry me wi everything in his bunk an put on every conceivable sort o rig i find till the blood be circulatin. three pair drawer i mind i find to begin upon an i need them all. it be the cold cold i remember in all my experience. 
syne i go aft to the engine room. the grotkau sit on her own tail a they say. she be vara shortshafted an her gear be all aft. there be four or five foot o water in the engine room slummockin to and fro black an greasy. maybe there be six foot. the stoke hold door be screw home an the stoke hold be tight enough but for a minute the mess in the engine room deceive me. only for a minute though an that be because i be not in a manner o speakin a calm a ordinar. i look again to mak sure. t be just black wi bilge. dead watter that must ha come in fortuitously ye ken. 
mcphee i m only a passenger i say but you don t persuade me that six foot o water can come into an engine room fortuitously. 
who s tryin to persuade one way or the other. mcphee retort. i m statin the fact o the case the simple natural fact. six or seven foot o dead watter in the engine room be a vara depressin sight if ye think there s like to be more comin. but i do not consider that such be likely and so yell note i be not depress. 
that s all very well but i want to know about the water i say. 
i ve tell ye. there be six foot or more there wi calder s cap floatin on top. 
where do it come from. 
weel in the confusion o thing after the propeller have drop off an the engine be racin an a it s vara possible that calder might ha lose it off his head an no trouble himself to pick it up again. i remember seem that cap on him at southampton. 
i don t want to know about the cap. i m ask where the water come from and what it be do there and why you be so certain that it wasn t a leak mcphee. 
for good reason for good an sufficient reason. 
give it to me then. 
weel it s a reason that doe not properly concern myself only. to be preceese i m of opinion that it be due the watter in part to an error o judgment in another man. we can a mak mistake. 
oh i beg your pardon. 
i get me to the rail again an what s wrang. say bell hailin. 
she ll do i say. send s o er a hawser an a man to steer. i ll pull him in by the life line. 
i could see head bobbin back an forth an a whuff or two o strong word. then bell say. they ll not trust themselves one of em in this waiter except kinloch an i ll no spare him. 
the more salvage to me then i say. i ll make shift solo. 
say one dock rat at this. d ye think she s safe. 
i ll guarantee ye nothing i say except maybe a hammerin for keepin me this long. 
then he sing out. there s no more than one lifebelt an they canna find it or i d come. 
throw him over the jezebel i say for i be oot o patience. an they take haud o that volunteer before he know what be in store and heave him over in the bight of my life line. so i e en haul him upon the sag of it hand over fist a vara welcome recruit when i d tilt the salt watter oot of him. for by the way he could na swim. 
syne they bend a twa inch rope to the life line an a hawser to that an i lead the rope o er the drum of a hand winch forward an we sweat the hawser inboard an make it fast to the grotkau s bitt. 
bell bring the kite so close i fear she d roll in an do the grotkau s plate a mischief. he heave anither life line to me an go astern an we have all the weary winch work to do again wi a second hawser. for all that bell be right. we d along tow before u an though providence have help u that far there be no sense in leavin too much to it keepin. when the second hawser be fast i be wet wi sweat an i cry bell to tak up his slack an go home. the other man be by way o helpin the work wi askin for drink but i e en tell him he must hand reef an steer beginnin with steerin for i be goin to turn in. he steer oh ay he steer in a manner o speakin. at the least he grippit the spoke an twiddle em an look wise but i doubt if the hoor ever felt it. i turn in there an then to young bannister s bunk an sleep past expression. i waukened ragin wi hunger a fair lump o sea runnin the kite snorin awa four knot an hour. an the grotkau slappin her nose under an yawin an standin over at discretion. she be a most disgracefu tow. but the shameful thing of all be the food. i raxed me a meal fra galley shelf an pantry an lazareetes an cubby hole that i would not ha gi to the mate of a cardiff collier. an ye ken we say a cardiff mate will eat clinker to save waste. i m sayin it be simply vile. the crew have write what they think of it on the new paint o the fo c sle but i have not a decent soul wi me to complain on. there be nothin for me to do save watch the hawser an the kite s tail squatterin down in white watter when she lift to a sea. so i get steam on the after donkey pump an pump oot the engine room. there s no sense in leavin waiter loose in a ship. when she be dry i go doun the shaft tunnel an find she be leakin a little through the stuffin box but nothin to make wark. the propeller have e en jar off a i know it must an calder have be waitin for it to go wi his hand on the gear. he tell me a much when i meet him ashore. there be nothin start or strain. it have just slip awa to the bed o the atlantic a easy a a man dyin wi due warn a most providential business for all concern. syne i take stock o the grotkau s upper work. her boat have be smash on the davit an here an there be the rail missin an a ventilator or two have fetch awa an the bridge rail be bend by the sea. but her hatch be tight and she d take no sort of harm. dod i come to hate her like a human bein for i be eight weary day aboard starvin ay starvin within a cable s length o plenty. all day i lay in the bunk read the woman hater the grand book charlie reade ever write an pickin a toothful here an there. it be weary weary work. eight day man i be aboard the grotkau an not one full meal do i make. sma blame her crew would not stay by her. the other man. oh i warked him wi a vengeance to keep him warm. 
it come on to blow when we fetch soundin s an that keep me standin by the hawser lash to the capstan breathin twixt green sea. i near die o cauld an hunger for the grotkau tow like a barge an bell howkit her along through or over. it be vara thick up channel too. we be standin in to make some sort o light an we near walk over twa three fishin boat an they cry u we be overclose to falmouth. then we be near cut down by a drunken foreign fruiter that be blunderin between u an the shore and it get thick an thick that night an i could feel by the tow bell do not know whaur he be. losh we know in the morn for the wind blow the fog oot like a candle an the sun come clear. and a surely a mcrimmon gi me my cheque the shadow o the eddystone lay across our tow rope. we be that near ay we be that near. bell fetch the kite round with the jerk that come close to tearin the bitt out o the grotkau an i mind i thank my maker in young bannister s cabin when we be inside plymouth breakwater. 
the first to come aboard be mcrimmon wi dandie. do i tell you our order be to take anything we find into plymouth. the auld deil have just come down overnight puttin two an two together from what calder have tell him when the liner land the grotkau s men. he have preceesely hit oor time. i d hail bell for something to eat an he send it o er in the same boat wi mcrimmon when the auld man come to me. he grin an slap his leg and work his eyebrow the while i eat. 
how do holdock steiner & chase fee their men. say he. 
ye can see i say knockin the top off another beer bottle. i do not sign to be starve mcrimmon. 
nor to swim either say he for bell have tauld him how i carry the line aboard. well i m thinkin you ll be no loser. what freight could we ha put into the lammergeyer would equal salvage on four hunder thousand pound hull an cargo. eh mcphee. this cut the liver out o holdock steiner chase & company limit. eh mcphee. an i m sufferin from senile dementia now. eh mcphee. an i m not daft be i till i begin to paint the lammergeyer. eh mcphee. ye may weel lift your leg dandie. i ha the laugh o them all. ye find watter in the engine room. 
to speak wi oot prejudice i say there be some watter. 
they think she be sinkin after the propeller go. she fill wi extraordinary rapeedity. calder say it grieve him an bannister to abandon her. 
i think o the dinner at radley s an what like o food i d eat for eight day. 
it would grieve them sore i say. 
but the crew would not hear o stayin and workin her back under canvas. they re gaun up an down sayin they d ha starve first. 
they d ha starve if they d stay say i. 
i tak it fra calder s account there be a mutiny a most. 
ye know more than i mcrimmon i say. speakin wi oot prejudice for we re all in the same boat who open the bilgecock. 
oh that s it be it. say the auld man an i could see he be surprise. a bilge cock ye say. 
i believe it be a bilge cock. they be all shut when i come aboard but some one have flood the engine room eight foot over all and shut it off with the worm an wheel gear from the second gratin afterwards. 
losh. say mcrimmon. the ineequity o man s beyond belief. but it s awfu discreditable to holdock steiner & chase if that come oot in court. 
it s just my own curiosity i say. 
aweel dandie s afflict wi the same disease. dandie strive against curiosity for it bring a little dog into trap an suchlike. whaur be the kite when yon paint liner take off the grotkau s people. 
just there or thereabouts i say. 
an which o you twa think to cover your light. say he winkin. 
dandle i say to the dog we must both strive against curiosity. it s an unremunerative business. what s our chance o salvage dandie. 
he laugh till he choke. tak what i gie you mcphee an be content he say. lord how a man waste time when he get old. get aboard the kite mon a soon a ye can. i ve clean forget there s a baltic charter yammerin for you at london. that ll be your last voyage i m thinkin excep by way o pleasure. 
steiner s men be comin aboard to take charge an tow her round an i pass young steiner in a boat a i go to the kite. he look down his nose. but mcrimmon pipe up. here s the man ye owe the grotkau to at a price steiner at a price. let me introduce mr. mcphee to you. maybe ye ve meet before. but ye ve vara little luck in keepin your men ashore or afloat. 
young steiner look angry enough to eat him a he chuckle an whustled in his dry old throat. 
ye ve not get your award yet steiner say. 
na na say the auld man in a screech ye could hear to the hoe but i ve twa million sterlin an no bairn ye judeeas apella if ye mean to fight. an i ll match ye p und for p und till the last p und s oot. ye ken me steiner. i m mcrimmon o mcnaughten & mcrimmon. 
dod he say betwix his teeth sittin back in the boat i ve wait fourteen year to break that jewfirm an god be thankit i ll do it now. 
the kite be in the baltic while the auld man be warkin his warks but i know the assessor value the grotkau all tell at over three hunder and sixty thousand her manifest be a treat o richness an mcrimmon get a third for salvin an abandon ship. ye see there s vast deeference between towin a ship wi men on her an pickin up a derelict a vast deeference in pound sterlin. moreover twa three o the grotkau s crew be burnin to testify about food an there be a note o calder to the board in regard to the tail shaft that would ha be vara damagin if it have come into court. they know good than to fight. 
syne the kite come back an mcrimmon pay off me an bell personally an the rest of the crew pro rata i believe it s ca ed. my share oor share i should say be just twenty five thousand pound sterlin. 
at this point janet jump up and kiss him. 
five and twenty thousand pound sterlin. noo i m fra the north and i m not the like to fling money awa rashly but i d gie six month pay one hunder an twenty pound to know who flood the engine room of the grotkau. i m fairly well acquaint wi mcrimmon s eediosyncrasies and he d no hand in it. it be not calder for i ve ask him an he want to fight me. it would be in the high degree unprofessional o calder not fightin but openin bilge cock but for a while i think it be him. ay i judge it might be him under temptation. 
what s your theory. i demand. 
weel i m incline to think it be one o those singular providence that remind u we re in the hand o high power. 
it couldn t open and shut itself. 
i do not mean that. but some half starvin oiler or maybe trim must ha open it awhile to mak sure o leavin the grotkau. it s a demoralisin thing to see an engine room flood up after any accident to the gear demoralisin and deceptive both. aweel the man get what he want for they go aboard the liner cryin that the grotkau be sinkin. but it s curious to think o the consequence. in a human probability he s bein damn in heap at the present moment aboard another tramp freighter. an here be i wi five an twenty thousand pound invest resolute to go to sea no more providential s the preceese word except a a passenger ye ll understand janet. 
* * * * *. 
mcphee keep his word. he and janet go for a voyage a passenger in the first class saloon. they pay seventy pound for their berth. and janet find a very sick woman in the second class saloon so that for sixteen day she live below and chat with the stewardess at the foot of the second saloon stair while her patient sleep. mcphee be a passenger for exactly twenty four hour. then the engineer mess where the oilcloth table be joyfully take him to it bosom and for the rest of the voyage that company be rich by the unpaid service of a highly certificate engineer. 
an error in the fourth dimension. 
before he be thirty he discover that there be no one to play with him. though the wealth of three toilsome generation stand to his account though his taste in the matter of book binding rug sword bronze lacquer picture plate statuary horse conservatory and agriculture be educate and catholic the public opinion of his country want to know why he do not go to office daily a his father have before him. 
so he flee and they howl behind him that he be an unpatriotic anglomaniac bear to consume fruit one totally lack in public spirit. he wear an eyeglass. he have build a wall round his country house with a high gate that shut instead of invite america to sit on his flower bed. he order his clothe from england. and the press of his abide city curse him from his eye glass to his trouser for two consecutive day. 
when he rise to light again it be where nothing le than the tent of an invade army in piccadilly would make any difference to anybody. if he have money and leisure england stand ready to give him all that money and leisure could buy. that price pay she would ask no question. he take his cheque book and accumulate thing warily at first for he remember that in america thing own the man. to his delight he discover that in england he could put his belonging under his foot. for class rank and denomination of people rise a it be from the earth and silently and discreetly take charge of his possession. they have be bear and breed for that sole purpose servant of the cheque book. when that be at an end they would depart a mysteriously a they have come. 
the impenetrability of this regulate life irritate him and he strive to learn something of the human side of these people. he retire baffle to be train by his menial. in america the native demoralise the english servant. in england the servant educate the master. wilton sargent strive to learn all they teach a ardently a his father have strive to wreck before capture the railway of his native land. and it must have be some touch of the old bandit railway blood that bid him buy for a song holt hangar whose forty acre lawn a every one know sweep down in velvet to the quadruple track of the great buchonian railway. their train fly by almost continuously with a bee like drone in the day and a flutter of strong wing at night. the son of merton sargent have good right to be interest in them. he own control interest in several thousand mile of track not permanent way build on altogether different plan where locomotive eternally whistle for grade crossing and parlor car of fabulous expense and unrestful design skate round curve that the great buchonian would have condemn a unsafe in a construction line. from the edge of his lawn he could trace the chair metal fall away rigid a a bowstring into the valley of the prest stud with the long perspective of the block signal buttress with stone and carry high above all possible risk on a forty foot embankment. 
leave to himself he would have build a private car and keep it at the near railway station amberley royal five mile away. but those into whose hand he have commit himself for his english train have little knowledge of railway and le of private car. the one they know be something that exist in the scheme of thing for their convenience. the other they hold to be distinctly american. and with the versatility of his race wilton sargent have set out to be just a little more english than the english. 
he succeed to admiration. he learn not to redecorate holt hangar though he warm it. to leave his guest alone. to refrain from superfluous introduction. to abandon manner of which he have great store and to hold fast by manner which can after labour be acquire. he learn to let other people hire for the purpose attend to the duty for which they be pay. he learn this he get from a ditcher on the estate that every man with whom he come in contact have his decree position in the fabric of the realm which position he would do well to consult. last mystery of all he learn to golf well. and when an american know the innermost mean of don t press slow back and keep your eye on the ball he be for practical purpose denationalise. 
his other education proceed on the pleasant line. be he interest in any conceivable thing in heaven above or the earth beneath or the water under the earth. forthwith appear at his table guide by those safe hand into which he have fall the very men who have best say do write explore excavate build launch create or study that one thing herder of book and print in the british museum. specialist in scarab cartouch and dynasty egyptian. rover and raider from the heart of unknown land. toxicologist. orchid hunter. monographers on flint implement carpet prehistoric man or early renaissance music. they come and they play with him. they ask no question. they care not so much a a pin who or what he be. they demand only that he should be able to talk and listen courteously. their work be do elsewhere and out of his sight. 
there be also woman. 
never say wilton sargent to himself ha an american see england a i m see it. and he think blush beneath the bedclothes of the unregenerate and blatant day when he would steam to office down the hudson in his twelve hundred ton ocean go steam yacht and arrive by gradation at bleecker street hang on to a leather strap between an irish washerwoman and a german anarchist. if any of his guest have see him then they would have say. how distinctly american. and wilton do not care for that tone. he have school himself to an english walk and so long a he do not raise it an english voice. he do not gesticulate with his hand. he sit down on most of his enthusiasm but he could not rid himself of the shibboleth. he would ask for the worcestershire sauce. even howard his immaculate butler could not break him of this. 
it be decree that he should complete his education in a wild and wonderful manner and further that i should be in at that death. 
wilton have more than once ask me to holt hangar for the purpose of show how well the new life fit him and each time i have declare it creaseless. his third invitation be more informal than the others and he hint of some matter in which he be anxious for my sympathy or counsel or both. there be room for an infinity of mistake when a man begin to take liberty with his nationality. and i go down expect thing. a seven foot dog cart and a groom in the black holt hangar livery meet me at amberley royal. at holt hangar i be receive by a person of elegance and true reserve and pilot to my luxurious chamber. there be no other guest in the house and this set me think. 
wilton come into my room about half an hour before dinner and though his face be mask with a drop curtain of highly embroider indifference i could see that he be not at ease. in time for he be then almost a difficult to move a one of my own countryman i extract the tale simple in it extravagance extravagant in it simplicity. it seem that hackman of the british museum have be stay with him about ten day before boast of scarab. hackman ha a way of carry really priceless antiquity on his tie ring and in his trouser pocket. apparently he have intercept something on it way to the boulak museum which he say be a genuine amen hotepa queen s scarab of the fourth dynasty. now wilton have buy from cassavetti whose reputation be not above suspicion a scarab of much the same scarabeousness and have leave it in his london chamber. hackman at a venture but know cassavetti pronounce it an imposition. there be long discussion savant versus millionaire one say. ut i know it cannot be. and the other. but i can and will prove it. wilton find it necessary for his soul s satisfaction to go up to town then and there a forty mile run and bring back the scarab before dinner. it be at this point that he begin to cut corner with disastrous result. amberley royal station be five mile away and put in of horse a matter of time wilton have tell howard the immaculate butler to signal the next train to stop. and howard who be more of a man of resource than his master give him credit for have with the red flag of the ninth hole of the link which cross the bottom of the lawn signal vehemently to the first down train. and it have stop. here wilton s account become confuse. he attempt it seem to get into that highly indignant express but a guard restrain him with more or le force haul him in fact backyard from the window of a lock carriage. wilton must have strike the gravel with some vehemence for the consequence he admit be a free fight on the line in which he lose his hat and be at last drag into the guard s van and set down breathless. 
he have press money upon the man and very foolishly have explain everything but his name. this he cling to for he have a vision of tall head line in the new york paper and well know no son of merton sargent could expect mercy that side the water. the guard to wilton s amazement refuse the money on the ground that this be a matter for the company to attend to. wilton insist on his incognito and therefore find two policeman wait for him at st. botolph terminus. when he express a wish to buy a new hat and telegraph to his friend both policeman with one voice warn him that whatever he say would be use a evidence against him. and this have impress wilton tremendously. 
they be so infernally polite he say. if they have club me i wouldn t have care. but it be step this way sir and up those stair please sir till they jail me jail me like a common drink and i have to stay in a filthy little cubby hole of a cell all night. 
that come of not give your name and not wire your lawyer i reply. what do you get. 
forty shilling or a month say wilton promptly next morning bright and early. they be work u off three a minute. a girl in a pink hat she be bring in at three in the morning get ten day. i suppose i be lucky. i must have knock his sens out of the guard. he tell the old duck on the bench that i have tell him i be a sergeant in the army and that i be gather beetle on the track. that come of try to explain to an englishman. 
and you. 
oh i say nothing. i want to get out. i pay my fine and buy a new hat and come up here before noon next morning. there be a lot of people in the house and i tell em i d be unavoidably detain and then they begin to recollect engagement elsewhere. hackman must have see the fight on the track and make a story of it. i suppose they think it be distinctly american confound em. it s the only time in my life that i ve ever flag a train and i wouldn t have do it but for that scarab. t wouldn t hurt their old train to be hold up once in a while. 
well it s all over now i say choke a little. and your name didn t get into the paper. it be rather transatlantic when you come to think of it. 
over. wilton grunt savagely. it s only just begin. that trouble with the guard be just common ordinary assault merely a little criminal business. the flag of the train be civil infernally civil and mean something quite different. they re after me for that now. 
who. 
the great buchonian. there be a man in court watch the case on behalf of the company. i give him my name in a quiet corner before i buy my hat and come to dinner now. i ll show you the result afterwards. the tell of his wrong have work wilton sargent into a very fine temper and i do not think that my conversation soothe him. in the course of the dinner prompt by a devil of pure mischief i dwell with love insistence on certain smell and sound of new york which go straight to the heart of the native in foreign part. and wilton begin to ask many question about his associate aforetime men of the new york yacht club storm king or the restigouche owner of river ranch and ship in their playtime lord of railway kerosene wheat and cattle in their office. when the green mint come i give him a peculiarly oily and atrocious cigar of the brand they sell in the tessellate electric light with expensive picture of the nude adorn bar of the pandemonium and wilton chew the end for several minute ere he light it. the butler leave u alone and the chimney of the oak panel diningroom begin to smoke. 
that s another. say he poke the fire savagely and i know what he mean. one cannot put steam heat in house where queen elizabeth sleep. the steady beat of a night mail whirl down the valley recall me to business. what about the great buchonian. i say. 
come into my study. that s all a yet. 
it be a pile of seidlitz powder colour correspondence perhaps nine inch high and it look very businesslike. 
you can go through it say wilton. now i could take a chair and a red flag and go into hyde park and say the most atrocious thing about your queen and preach anarchy and all that y know till i be hoarse and no one would take any notice. the police damn em. would protect me if i get into trouble. but for a little thing like flag a dirty little saw off train run through my own ground too i get the whole british constitution down on me a if i sell bomb. i don t understand it. 
no more doe the great buchonian apparently. i be turn over the letter. here s the traffic superintendent write that it s utterly incomprehensible that any man should. good heaven wilton you have do it. i giggle a i read on. 
what s funny now. say my host. 
it seem that you or howard for you stop the three forty northern down. 
i ought to know that. they all have their knife into me from the engine driver up. 
but it s the three forty the induna surely you ve hear of the great buchonian s induna. 
how the deuce be i to know one train from another. they come along about every two minute. 
quite so. but this happen to be the induna the one train of the whole line. she s time for fifty seven mile an hour. she be put on early in the sixty and she ha never be stop. 
i know. since william the conqueror come over or king charles hide in her smoke stack. you re a bad a the rest of these britisher. if she s be run all that while it s time she be flag once or twice. 
the american be begin to ooze out all over wilton and his small bone hand be move restlessly. 
suppose you flag the empire state express or the western cyclone. 
suppose i do. i know otis harvey or use to. i d send him a wire and he d understand it be a grind hog case with me. that s exactly what i tell this british fossil company here. 
have you be answer their letter without legal advice then. 
of course i have. 
oh my saint country. go ahead wilton. 
i write em that i d be very happy to see their president and explain to him in three word all about it. but that wouldn t do. seem their president must be a god. he be too busy and well you can read for yourself they want explanation. the stationmaster at amberley royal and he grovel before me a a rule want an explanation and quick too. the head sachem at st. botolph s want three or four and the lord high mukkamuk that oil the locomotive want one every fine day. i tell em i ve tell hem about fifty time i stop their holy and sacred train because i want to board her. do they think i want to feel her pulse. 
you didn t say that. 
feel her pulse. of course not. 
no. board her. 
what else could i say. 
my dear wilton what be the use of mr. sherborne and the clay and all that lot work over you for four year to make an englishman out of you if the very first time you re rattle you go back to the vernacular. 
i m through with mr. sherborne and the rest of the crowd. america s good enough for me. what ought i to have say. please or thank awf ly or how. 
there be no chance now of mistake the man s nationality. speech gesture and step so carefully drill into him have go away with the borrow mask of indifference. it be a lawful son of the young people whose predecessor be the red indian. his voice have rise to the high throaty crow of his breed when they labour under excitement. his close set eye show by turn unnecessary fear annoyance beyond reason rapid and purposeless flight of think the child s lust for immediate revenge and the child s pathetic bewilderment who knock his head against the bad wicked table. and on the other side i know stand the company a unable a wilton to understand. 
and i could buy their old road three time over he mutter play with a paper knife and move restlessly to and fro. 
you didn t tell em that i hope. 
there be no answer. but a i go through the letter i felt that wilton must have tell them many surprise thing. the great buchonian have first ask for an explanation of the stoppage of their induna and have find a certain levity in the explanation tender. it then advise mr. w. sargent to refer his solicitor to their solicitor or whatever the legal phrase be. 
and you didn t. i say look up. 
no. they be treat me exactly a if i have be a kid play on the cable track. there be not the least necessity for any solicitor. five minute quiet talk would have settle everything. 
i return to the correspondence. the great buchonian regret that owe to pressure of business none of their director could accept mr. w. sargent s invitation to run down and discus the difficulty. the great buchonian be careful to point out that no animus underlay their action nor be money their object. their duty be to protect the interest of their line and these interest could not be protect if a precedent be establish whereby any of the queen s subject could stop a train in mid career. again. this be another branch of the correspondence not more than five head of department be concern. the company admit that there be some reasonable doubt a to the duty of express train in all crisis and the matter be open to settlement by process of law till an authoritative rule be obtain from the house of lord if necessary. 
that break me all up say wilton who be read over my shoulder. i know i d strike the british constitution at last. the house of lord my lord. and anyway i m not one of the queen s subject. 
why i have a notion that you d get yourself naturalise. 
wilton blush hotly a he explain that very many thing must happen to the british constitution ere he take out his paper. 
how doe it all strike you. he say. isn t the great buchonian crazy. 
i don t know. you ve do something that no one ever think of do before and the company don t know what to make of it. i see they offer to send down their solicitor and another official of the company to talk thing over informally. then here s another letter suggest that you put up a fourteen foot wall crown with bottle glass at the bottom of the garden. 
talk of british insolence. the man who recommend that. he s another bloat functionary. say that i shall derive great pleasure from watch the wall go up day by day. do you ever dream of such gall. i ve offer em money enough to buy a new set of car and pension the driver for three generation. but that doesn t seem to be what they want. they expect me to go to the house of lord and get a rule and build wall between time. be they all stark rave mad. one ud think i make a profession of flag train. how in tophet be i to know their old induna from a waytrain. i take the first that come along and i ve be jail and fin for that once already. 
that be for slug the guard. 
he have no right to haul me out when i be half way through a window. 
what be you go to do about it. 
their lawyer and the other official. can t they trust their men unless they send em in pair. be come hereto night. i tell em i be busy a a rule till after dinner but they might send along the entire directorate if it ease em any. 
now after dinner visit for business or pleasure be the custom of the small american town and not that of england where the end of the day be sacred to the owner not the public. verily wilton sargent have hoist the strip flag of rebellion. 
isn t it time that the humour of the situation begin to strike you wilton. i ask. 
where s the humour of bait an american citizen just because he happen to be a millionaire poor devil. he be silent for a little time and then go on. of course. now i see. he spin round and face me excitedly. it s a plain a mud. these duck be lay their pipe to skin me. 
they say explicitly they don t want money. 
that s all a blind. so s their address me a w. sargent. they know well enough who i be. they know i m the old man s son. why didn t i think of that before. 
one minute wilton. if you climb to the top of the dome of st. paul s and offer a reward to any englishman who could tell you who or what merton sargent have be there wouldn t be twenty men in all london to claim it. 
that s their insular provincialism then. i don t care a cent. the old man would have wreck the great buchonian before breakfast for a pipe opener. my god i ll do it in dead earnest. i ll show em that they can t bulldoze a foreigner for flag one of their little tinpot train and i ve spend fifty thousand a year here at least for the last four year. 
i be glad i be not his lawyer. i re read the correspondence notably the letter which recommend him almost tenderly i fancy to build a fourteen foot brick wall at the end of his garden and half way through it a think strike me which fill me with pure joy. 
the footman usher in two men frock coat grey trousered smooth shave heavy of speech and gait. it be nearly nine o clock but they look a newly come from a bath. i could not understand why the elder and tall of the pair glance at me a though we have an understand. nor why he shake hand with an unenglish warmth. 
this simplify the situation he say in an undertone and a i star he whisper to his companion. i fear i shall be of very little service at present. perhaps mr. folsom have good talk over the affair with mr. sargent. 
that be what i be here for say wilton. 
the man of law smile pleasantly and say that he saw no reason why the difficulty should not be arrange in two minute quiet talk. his air a he sit down opposite wilton be soothe to the last degree and his companion draw me up stage. the mystery be deepen but i follow meekly and hear wilton say with an uneasy laugh. 
i ve have insomnia over this affair mr. folsom. let s settle it one way or the other for heaven s sake. 
ah. ha he suffer much from this lately. say my man with a preliminary cough. 
i really can t say i reply. 
then i suppose you have only lately take charge here. 
i come this even. i be not exactly in charge of anything. 
i see. merely to observe the course of event in case he nod. 
exactly. observation after all be my trade. 
he cough again slightly and come to business. 
now i be ask solely for information s sake do you find the delusion persistent. 
which delusion. 
they be variable then. that be distinctly curious because but do i understand that the type of the delusion vary. for example mr. sargent belief that he can buy the great buchonian. 
do he write you that. 
he make the offer to the company on a half sheet of note paper. now ha he by chance go to the other extreme and believe that he be in danger of become a pauper. the curious economy in the use of a half sheet of paper show that some idea of that kind might have flash through his mind and the two delusion can coexist but it be not common. a you must know the delusion of vast wealth the folly of grandeur i believe our friend the french call it be a a rule persistent to the exclusion of all others. 
then i hear wilton s best english voice at the end of the study. 
my dear sir i have explain twenty time already i want to get that scarab in time for dinner. suppose you have leave an important legal document in the same way. 
that touch of cunning be very significant my fellow practitioner since he insist on it mutter. 
i be very happy of course to meet you. but if you have only send your president down to dinner here i could have settle the thing in half a minute. why i could have buy the buchonian from him while your clerk be send me this. wilton drop his hand heavily on the blue and white correspondence and the lawyer start. 
but speak frankly the lawyer reply it be if i may say so perfectly inconceivable even in the case of the most important legal document that any one should stop the three forty express the induna our induna my dear sir. 
absolutely. my companion echo. then to me in a low tone. you notice again the persistent delusion of wealth. i be call in when he write u that. you can see it be utterly impossible for the company to continue to run their train through the property of a man who may at any moment fancy himself divinely commission to stop all traffic. if he have only refer u to his lawyer but naturally that he would not do under the circumstance. a pity a great pity. he be so young. by the way it be curious be it not to note the absolute conviction in the voice of those who be similarly afflict heart rend i might say and the inability to follow a chain of connect think. 
i can t see what you want wilton be say to the lawyer. 
it need not be more than fourteen foot high a really desirable structure and it would be possible to grow pear tree on the sunny side. the lawyer be speak in an unprofessional voice. there be few thing pleasant than to watch so to say one s own vine and fig tree in full bear. consider the profit and amusement you would derive from it. if you could see your way to do this we could arrange all the detail with your lawyer and it be possible that the company might bear some of the cost. i have put the matter i trust in a nutshell. if you my dear sir will interest yourself in build that wall and will kindly give u the name of your lawyer i dare assure you that you will hear no more from the great buchonian. 
but why be i to disfigure my lawn with a new brick wall. 
grey flint be extremely picturesque. 
grey flint then if you put it that way. why the dickens must i go build tower of babylon just because i have hold up one of your train once. 
the expression he use in his third letter be that he wish to board her say my companion in my ear. that be very curious a marine delusion impinge a it be upon a land one. what a marvellous world he must move in and will before the curtain fall. so young too so very young. 
well if you want the plain english of it i m damn if i go wall build to your order. you can fight it all along the line into the house of lord and out again and get your ruling by the run foot if you like say wilton hotly. great heaven man i only do it once. 
we have at present no guarantee that you may not do it again. and with our traffic we must in justice to our passenger demand some form of guarantee. it must not serve a a precedent. all this might have be save if you have only refer u to your legal representative. the lawyer look appealingly around the room. the dead lock be complete. 
wilton i ask may i try my hand now. 
anything you like say wilton. it seem i can t talk english. i win t build any wall though. he throw himself back in his chair. 
gentleman i say deliberately for i perceive that the doctor s mind would turn slowly mr. sargent ha very large interest in the chief railway system of his own country. 
his own country. say the lawyer. 
at that age. say the doctor. 
certainly. he inherit them from his father mr. sargent who be an american. 
and proud of it say wilton a though he have be a western senator let loose on the continent for the first time. 
my dear sir say the lawyer half rise why do you not acquaint the company with this fact this vital fact early in our correspondence. we should have understand. we should have make allowance. 
allowance be damn. be i a red indian or a lunatic. 
the two men look guilty. 
if mr. sargent s friend have tell u a much in the begin say the doctor very severely much might have be save. ala. i have make a life s enemy of that doctor. 
i hadn t a chance i reply. now of course you can see that a man who own several thousand mile of line a mr. sargent doe would be apt to treat railway a shade more casually than other people. 
of course. of course. he be an american. that account. still it be the induna. but i can quite understand that the custom of our cousin across the water differ in these particular from ours. and do you always stop train in this way in the state mr. sargent. 
i should if occasion ever arise. but i ve never have to yet. be you go to make an international complication of the business. 
you need give yourself no further concern whatever in the matter. we see that there be no likelihood of this action of yours establish a precedent which be the only thing we be afraid of. now that you understand that we cannot reconcile our system to any sudden stoppage we feel quite sure that. 
i sha n t be stay long enough to flag another train wilton say pensively. 
you be return then to our fellow kinsman across the ah big pond you call it. 
no sir. the ocean the north atlantic ocean. it s three thousand mile broad and three mile deep in place. i wish it be ten thousand. 
i be not so fond of sea travel myself. but i think it be every englishman s duty once in his life to study the great branch of our anglo saxon race across the ocean say the lawyer. 
if ever you come over and care to flag any train on my system i ll i ll see you through say wilton. 
thank you ah thank you. you re very kind. i m sure i should enjoy myself immensely. 
we have overlook the fact the doctor whisper to me that your friend propose to buy the great buchonian. 
he be worth anything from twenty to thirty million dollar four to five million pound i answer know that it would be hopeless to explain. 
really. that be enormous wealth. but the great buchonian be not in the market. 
perhaps he doe not want to buy it now. 
it would be impossible under any circumstance say the doctor. 
how characteristic. murmur the lawyer review matter in his mind. i always understand from book that your countryman be in a hurry. and so you would have go forty mile to town and back before dinner to get a scarab. how intensely american. but you talk exactly like an englishman mr. sargent. 
that be a fault that can be remedied. there s only one question i d like to ask you. you say it be inconceivable that any man should stop a train on your road. 
and so it be absolutely inconceivable. 
any sane man that be. 
that be what i mean of course. i mean with excep. 
thank you. 
the two men depart. wilton check himself a he be about to fill a pipe take one of my cigar instead and be silent for fifteen minute. 
then say he. have you get a list of the southampton sailing on you. 
far away from the greystone wing the dark cedar the faultless gravel drive and the mint sauce lawn of holt hangar run a river call the hudson whose unkempt bank be cover with the palace of those wealthy beyond the dream of avarice. here where the hoot of the haverstraw brick barge tug answer the howl of the locomotive on either shore you shall find with a complete installation of electric light nickel plat binnacle and a calliope attachment to her steam whistle the twelve hundred ton ocean go steam yacht columbia lie at her private pier to take to his office at an average speed of seventeen knot an hour and the barge can look out for themselves wilton sargent american. 
my sunday at home. 
if the red slayer think he slay or if the slay think he be slay they know not well the subtle way i keep and pas and turn again. emerson. 
it be the unreproducible slide r a he say this be his fy ist visit to england that tell me he be a new yorker from new york. and when in the course of our long lazy journey westward from waterloo he enlarge upon the beauty of his city i profess ignorance say no word. he have amaze and delight at the man s civility give the london porter a shill for carry his bag nearly fifty yard. he have thoroughly investigate the first class lavatory compartment which the london and southwestern sometimes supply without extra charge. and now half awe half contemptuous but wholly interest he look out upon the order english landscape wrap in it sunday peace while i watch the wonder grow upon his face. why be the car so short and stilted. why have every other freight car a tarpaulin draw over it. what wage would an engineer get now. where be the swarm population of england he have read so much about. what be the rank of all those men on tricycle along the road. when be we due at plymouth i tell him all i know and very much that i do not. he be go to plymouth to assist in a consultation upon a fellow countryman who have retire to a place call the hoe be that up town or down town to recover from nervous dyspepsia. yes he himself be a doctor by profession and how any one in england could retain any nervous disorder pass his comprehension. never have he dream of an atmosphere so soothe. even the deep rumble of london traffic be monastical by comparison with some city he could name. and the country why it be paradise. a continuance of it he confess would drive him mad. but for a few month it be the most sumptuous rest cure in his knowledge. 
i ll come over every year after this he say in a burst of delight a we run between two ten foot hedge of pink and white may. it s see all the thing i ve ever read about. of course it doesn t strike you that way. i presume you belong here. what a finish land it be. it s arrive. must have be bear this way. now where i use to live hello i what s up. 
the train stop in a blaze of sunshine at framlynghame admiral which be make up entirely of the name board two platform and an overhead bridge without even the usual side. i have never know the slow of local stop here before. but on sunday all thing be possible to the london and southwestern. one could hear the drone of conversation along the carriage and scarcely le loud the drone of the bumblebee in the wallflower up the bank. my companion thrust his head through the window and sniff luxuriously. 
where be we now. say he. 
in wiltshire say i. 
ah. a man ought to be able to write novel with his leave hand in a country like this. well well. and so this be about te s country ain t it. i feel just a if i be in a book. say the conduc the guard ha something on his mind. what s he get at. 
the splendid badge and belt guard be stride up the platform at the regulation official pace and in the regulation official voice be say at each door. 
ha any gentleman here a bottle of medicine. a gentleman ha take a bottle of poison. laudanum. by mistake. 
between each five pace he look at an official telegram in his hand refresh his memory and say his say. the dreamy look on my companion s face he have go far away with te pass with the speed of a snap shutter. after the manner of his countryman he have rise to the situation jerk his bag down from the overhead rail open it and i hear the click of bottle. find out where the man be he say briefly. i ve get something here that will fix him if he can swallow still. 
swiftly i flee up the line of carriage in the wake of the guard. there be clamour in a rear compartment the voice of one bellow to be let out and the foot of one who kick. with the tail of my eye i saw the new york doctor hasten thither bear in his hand a blue and brim glass from the lavatory compartment. the guard i find scratch his head unofficially by the engine and murmur. well i put a bottle of medicine off at andover i m sure i do. 
good say it again any ow say the driver. order be order. say it again. 
once more the guard pace back i anxious to attract his attention trot at his heel. 
in a minute in a minute sir he say wave an arm capable of start all the traffic on the london and southwestern railway at a wave. ha any gentleman here get a bottle of medicine. a gentleman ha take a bottle of poison. laudanum. by mistake. 
where s the man. i gasp. 
woking. ere s my order. he show me the telegram on which be the word to be say. e must have leave be bottle in the train an take another by mistake. e s be wirin from woking awful an now i come to think of it i m nearly sure i put a bottle of medicine off at andover. 
then the man that take the poison isn t in the train. 
lord no sir. no one didn t take poison that way. e take it away with im in be ands. e s wirin from wokin. my order be to ask everybody in the train and i ave an we re four minute late now. be you comin on sir. no. right be ind. 
there be nothing unless perhaps the english language more terrible than the working of an english railway line. an instant before it seem a though we be go to spend all eternity at framlynghame admiral and now i be watch the tail of the train disappear round the curve of the cut. 
but i be not alone. on the one bench of the down platform sit the large navvy i have ever see in my life soften and make affable. for he smile generously. with liquor. in his huge hand he nurse an empty tumbler mark l. s. w. r. mark also internally with streak of blue grey sediment. before him a hand on his shoulder stand the doctor and a i come within ear shoot this be what i hear him say. just you hold on to your patience for a minute or two long and you ll be a right a ever you be in your life. i ll stay with you till you re good. 
lord. i m comfortable enough say the navvy. never felt good in my life. 
turn to me the doctor lower his voice. he might have die while that fool conduct guard be say his piece. i ve fix him though. the stuff s due in about five minute but there s a heap to him. i don t see how we can make him take exercise. 
for the moment i felt a though seven pound of crush ice have be neatly apply in the form of a compress to my low stomach. 
how how do you manage it. i gasp. 
i ask him if he d have a drink. he be knock spot out of the car strength of his constitution i suppose. he say he d go most anywhere for a drink so i lure onto the platform and load him up. cold blood people you britisher be. that train s go and no one seem to care a cent. 
we ve miss it i say. 
he look at me curiously. 
we ll get another before sundown if that s your only trouble. say porter when s the next train down. 
seven forty five say the one porter and pass out through the wicket gate into the landscape. it be then three twenty of a hot and sleepy afternoon. the station be absolutely desert. the navvy have close his eye and now nod. 
that s bad say the doctor. the man i mean not the train. we must make him walk somehow walk up and down. 
swiftly a might be i explain the delicacy of the situation and the doctor from new york turn a full bronze green. then he swear comprehensively at the entire fabric of our glorious constitution curse the english language root branch and paradigm through it most obscure derivative. his coat and bag lay on the bench next to the sleeper. thither he edge cautiously and i saw treachery in his eye. 
what devil of delay possess him to slip on his spring overcoat i cannot tell. they say a slight noise rous a sleeper more surely than a heavy one and scarcely have the doctor settle himself in his sleeve than the giant wake and seize that silk face collar in a hot right hand. there be rage in his face rage and the realisation of new emotion. 
i m i m not so comfortable a i be he say from the deep of his interior. you ll wait along o me you will. he breathe heavily through shut lip. 
now if there be one thing more than another upon which the doctor have dwell in his conversation with me it be upon the essential law abidingness not to say gentleness of his much misrepresent country. and yet. truly it may have be no more than a button that irk him. i saw his hand travel backwards to his right hip clutch at something and come away empty. 
he win t kill you i say. he ll probably sue you in court if i know my own people. good give him some money from time to time. 
if he keep quiet till the stuff get in it work the doctor answer i m all right. if he doesn t. my name be emory julian b. emory steenth street corner of madison and. 
i feel bad than i ve ever felt say the navvy with suddenness. what do you give me the drink for. 
the matter seem to be so purely personal that i withdraw to a strategic position on the overhead bridge and abide in the exact centre look on from afar. 
i could see the white road that run across the shoulder of salisbury plain unshaded for mile after mile and a dot in the middle distance the back of the one porter return to framlynghame admiral if such a place exist till seven forty five. the bell of a church invisible clank softly. there be a rustle in the horse chestnut to the leave of the line and the sound of sheep crop close. 
the peace of nirvana lay upon the land and brood in it my elbow on the warm iron girder of the footbridge. it be a forty shill fine to cross by any other mean. i perceive a never before how the consequence of our act run eternal through time and through space. if we impinge never so slightly upon the life of a fellow mortal the touch of our personality like the ripple of a stone cast into a pond widen and widen in unending circle across the aeon till the far off god themselves cannot say where action cease. also it be i who have silently set before the doctor the tumbler of the first class lavatory compartment now speed plymouthward. yet i be in spirit at least a million league remove from that unhappy man of another nationality who have choose to thrust an inexpert finger into the working of an alien life. the machinery be drag him up and down the sunlit platform. the two men seem to be learn polka mazurka together and the burden of their song bear by one deep voice be. what do you give me the drink for. 
i saw the flash of silver in the doctor s hand. the navvy take it and pocket it with his leave. but never for an instant do his strong right leave the doctor s coat collar and a the crisis approach loud and loud rise his bull like roar. what do you give me the drink for. 
they drift under the great twelve inch pin timber of the foot bridge towards the bench and i gather the time be very near at hand. the stuff be get in it work. blue white and blue again roll over the navvy s face in wave till all settle to one rich clay bank yellow and that fell which fell. 
i think of the blow up of hell gate. of the geyser in the yellowstone park. of jonah and his whale. but the lively original a i watch it foreshorten from above exceed all these thing. he stagger to the bench the heavy wooden seat cramp with iron cramp into the endure stone and cling there with his leave hand. it quiver and shake a a breakwater pile quiver to the rush of landward race sea. nor be there lack when he catch his breath the scream of a madden beach drag down by the tide. his right hand be upon the doctor s collar so that the two shake to one paroxysm pendulum vibrate together while i apart shake with them. 
it be colossal immense. but of certain manifestation the english language stop short. french only the caryatid french of victor hugo would have describe it. so i mourn while i laugh hastily shuffle and discard inadequate adjective. the vehemence of the shock spend itself and the sufferer half fell half kneel across the bench. he be call now upon god and his wife huskily a the wound bull call upon the unscathed herd to stay. curiously enough he use no bad language. that have go from him with the rest. the doctor exhibit gold. it be take and retain. so too be the grip on the coat collar. 
if i could stand boom the giant despairingly i d smash you you an your drink. i m dyin dyin dyin. 
that s what you think say the doctor. you ll find it will do you a lot of good. and make a virtue of a somewhat imperative necessity he add. i ll stay by you. if you d let go of me a minute i d give you something that would settle you. 
you ve settle me now you damn anarchist. takin the bread out of the mouth of an english workin man. but i ll keep old of you till i m well or dead. i never do you no arm. s pose i be a little full. they pump me out once at guy s with a stummick pump. i could see that but i can t see this ere an it s killin of me by slow degree. 
you ll be all right in half an hour. what do you suppose i d want to kill you for. say the doctor who come of a logical breed. 
ow do i know. tell em in court. you ll get seven year for this you body snatcher. that s what you be a bloomin bodysnatcher. there s justice i tell you in england. and my union ll prosecute too. we don t stand no trick with people s inside ere. they give a woman ten year for a sight le than this. an you ll ave to pay undreds an undreds o pound besides a pension to the missus. you ll see you physickin furriner. where s your licence to do such. you ll catch it i tell you. 
then i observe what i have frequently observe before that a man who be but reasonably afraid of an altercation with an alien ha a most poignant dread of the operation of foreign law. the doctor s voice be flute like in it exquisite politeness a he answer. 
but i ve give you a very great deal of money fif three pound i think. 
an what s three pound for poisonin the like o me. they tell me at guy s i d fetch twenty cold on the slate. ouh. it s comin again. 
a second time he be cut down by the foot a it be and the strain bench rock to and fro a i avert my eye. 
it be the very point of perfection in the heart of an english may day. the unseen tide of the air have turn and all nature be set it face with the shadow of the horse chestnut towards the peace of the come night. but there be hour yet i know long long hour of the eternal english twilight to the end of the day. i be well content to be alive to abandon myself to the drift of time and fate. to absorb great peace through my skin and to love my country with the devotion that three thousand mile of intervene sea bring to full flower. and what a garden of eden it be this fat clip and washen land. a man could camp in any open field with more sense of home and security than the stately building of foreign city could afford. and the joy be that it be all mine alienably groom hedgerow spotless road decent greystone cottage serried spinney tasselled copse apple belly hawthorn and well grow tree. a light puff of wind it scatter flake of may over the gleam rail give me a faint whiff a it might have be of fresh cocoanut and i know that the golden gorse be in bloom somewhere out of sight. linneeus have thank god on his bend knee when he first saw a field of it. and by the way the navvy be on his knee too. but he be by no mean pray. he be purely disgustful. 
the doctor be compel to bend over him his face towards the back of the seat and from what i have see i suppose the navvy be now dead. if that be the case it would be time for me to go. but i know that so long a a man trust himself to the current of circumstance reach out for and reject nothing that come his way no harm can overtake him. it be the contriver the schemer who be catch by the law and never the philosopher. i know that when the play be play destiny herself would move me on from the corpse. and i felt very sorry for the doctor. 
in the far distance presumably upon the road that lead to framlynghame admiral there appear a vehicle and a horse the one ancient fly that almost every village can produce at need. this thing be advance unpaid by me towards the station. would have to pas along the deep cut lane below the railway bridge and come out on the doctor s side. i be in the centre of thing so all side be alike to me. here then be my machine from the machine. when it arrive. something would happen or something else. for the rest i own my deeply interest soul. 
the doctor by the seat turn so far a his cramp position allow his head over his leave shoulder and lay his right hand upon his lip. i throw back my hat and elevate my eyebrow in the form of a question. the doctor shut his eye and nod his head slowly twice or thrice beckon me to come. i descend cautiously and it be a the sign have tell. the navvy be asleep empty to the low notch. yet his hand clutch still the doctor s collar and at the light movement. the doctor be really very cramp. tighten mechanically a the hand of a sick woman tighten on that of the watcher. he have drop squat almost upon his heel and fall low have drag the doctor over to the leave. 
the doctor thrust his right hand which be free into his pocket draw forth some key and shake his head. the navvy gurgle in his sleep. silently i dive into my pocket take out one sovereign and hold it up between finger and thumb. again the doctor shake his head. money be not what be lack to his peace. his bag have fall from the seat to the grind. he look towards it and open his mouth o shape. the catch be not a difficult one and when i have master it the doctor s right forefinger be saw the air. with an immense caution i extract from the bag such a knife a they use for cut collops off leg. the doctor frown and with his first and second finger imitate the action of scissor. again i search and find a most diabolical pair of cock nose shear capable of vandyking the interior of elephant. the doctor then slowly lower his leave shoulder till the navvy s right wrist be support by the bench pause a moment a the spend volcano rumble anew. low and low the doctor sink kneel now by the navvy s side till his head be on a level with and just in front of the great hairy fist and there be no tension on the coat collar. then light dawn on me. 
begin a little to the right of the spinal column i cut a huge demilune out of his new spring overcoat bring it round a far under his leave side. which be the right side of the navvy. a i dare. pass thence swiftly to the back of the seat and reach between the spline i saw through the silk face front on the leave hand side of the coat till the two cut join. 
cautiously a the box turtle of his native heath the doctor draw away sideways and to the right with the air of a frustrate burglar come out from under a bed and stand up free one black diagonal shoulder project through the grey of his ruin overcoat. i return the scissor to the bag snap the catch and hold all out to him a the wheel of the fly ring hollow under the railway arch. 
it come at a footpace past the wicket gate of the station and the doctor stop it with a whisper. it be go some five mile across country to bring home from church some one i could not catch the name because his own carriage horse be lame. it destination happen to be the one place in all the world that the doctor be most burningly anxious to visit and he promise the driver untold gold to drive to some ancient flame of his helen blaze she be call. 
aren t you come too. he say bundle his overcoat into his bag. 
now the fly have be so obviously send to the doctor and to no one else that i have no concern with it. our road i saw divide and there be further a need upon me to laugh. 
i shall stay here i say. it s a very pretty country. 
my god. he murmur a softly a he shut the door and i felt that it be a prayer. 
then he go out of my life and i shape my course for the railway bridge. it be necessary to pas by the bench once more but the wicket be between u. the departure of the fly have wake the navvy. he crawl on to the seat and with malignant eye watch the driver flog down the road. 
the man inside o that he call a poison me. e s a body snatcher. e s comin back again when i m cold. ere s my evidence. 
he wave his share of the overcoat and i go my way because i be hungry. framlynghame admiral village be a good two mile from the station and i wake the holy calm of the even every step of that way with shout and yell cast myself down in the flank of the good green hedge when i be too weak to stand. there be an inn a bless inn with a thatch roof and peony in the garden and i order myself an upper chamber in which the forester hold their court for the laughter be not all out of me. a bewilder woman bring me ham and egg and i lean out of the mullioned window and laugh between mouthful. i sit long above the beer and the perfect smoke that follow till the light change in the quiet street and i begin to think of the seven forty five down and all that world of the arabian night i have quit. 
descend i pass a giant in moleskin who fill the low ceiled tap room. many empty plate stand before him and beyond them a fringe of the framlynghame admiralty to whom he be unfold a wondrous tale of anarchy of body snatch of bribery and the valley of the shadow from the which he be but newly rise. and a he talk he eat and a he eat he drink for there be much room in him. and anon he pay royally speak of justice and the law before whom all englishman be equal and all foreigner and anarchist vermin and slime. 
on my way to the station he pass me with great stride his head high among the low fly bat his foot firm on the pack road metal his fist clinch and his breath come sharply. there be a beautiful smell in the air the smell of white dust bruise nettle and smoke that bring tear to the throat of a man who see his country but seldom a smell like the echo of the lose talk of lover. the infinitely suggestive odour of an immemorial civilisation. it be a perfect walk. and linger on every step i come to the station just a the one porter light the last of a truckload of lamp and set them back in the lamp room while he deal ticket to four or five of the population who not content with their own peace think fit to travel. it be no ticket that the navvy seem to need. he be sit on a bench wrathfully grind a tumbler into fragment with his heel. i abide in obscurity at the end of the platform interest a ever thank heaven in my surround. there be a jar of wheel on the road. the navvy rise a they approach stride through the wicket and lay a hand upon a horse s bridle that bring the beast up on his hireling hind leg. it be the providential fly come back and for a moment i wonder whether the doctor have be mad enough to revisit his practice. 
get away. you re drink say the driver. 
i m not say the navvy. i ve be waitin ere hour and hour. come out you beggar inside there. 
go on driver say a voice i do not know a crisp clear english voice. 
all right say the navvy. you wouldn t ear me when i be polite. now will you come. 
there be a chasm in the side of the fly for he have wrench the door bodily off it hinge and be feel within purposefully. a well boot leg reward him and there come out not with delight hop on one foot a round and grey haired englishman from whose armpit drop hymn book but from his mouth an altogether different service of song. 
come on you bloomin body snatcher. you think i be dead do you. roar the navvy. and the respectable gentleman come accordingly inarticulate with rage. 
ere s a man murderin the squire the driver shout and fell from his box upon the navvy s neck. 
to do them justice the people of framlynghame admiral so many a be on the platform rally to the call in the best spirit of feudalism. it be the one porter who beat the navvy on the nose with a ticket punch but it be the three third class ticket who attach themselves to his leg and free the captive. 
send for a constable. lock him up. say that man adjust his collar. and unitedly they cast him into the lamp room and turn the key while the driver mourn over the wreck fly. 
till then the navvy whose only desire be justice have keep his temper nobly. then he go berserk before our amaze eye. the door of the lamp room be generously construct and would not give an inch but the window he tear from it fastening and hurl outwards. the one porter count the damage in a loud voice and the others arm themselves with agricultural implement from the station garden keep up a ceaseless winnow before the window themselves back close to the wall and bid the prisoner think of the gaol. he answer little to the point so far a they could understand. but see that his exit be impede he take a lamp and hurl it through the wreck sash. it fell on the metal and go out. with inconceivable velocity the others fifteen in all follow look like rocket in the gloom and with the last. he could have have no plan. the berserk rage leave him a the doctor s deadly brewage wake up under the stimulus of violent exercise and a very full meal to one last cataclysmal exhibition and we hear the whistle of the seven forty five down. 
they be all acutely interest in a much of the wreck a they could see for the station smelt to heaven of oil and the engine skitter over break glass like a terrier in a cucumber frame. the guard have to hear of it and the squire have his version of the brutal assault and head be out all along the carriage a i find me a seat. 
what be the row. say a young man a i enter. man drink. 
well the symptom so far a my observation ha go more resemble those of asiatic cholera than anything else i answer slowly and judicially that every word might carry weight in the appoint scheme of thing. up till then you will observe i have take no part in that war. 
he be an englishman but he collect his belonging a swiftly a have the american age before and leap upon the platform cry. can i be of any service. i m a doctor. 
from the lamp room i hear a weary voice wail another bloomin doctor. 
and the seven forty five carry me on a step near to eternity by the road that be wear and seam and channel with the passion and weakness and war interest of man who be immortal and master of his fate. 
the brushwood boy. 
girl and boy come out to play the moon be shin a bright a day. leave your supper and leave your sleep and come with your playfellow out in the street. up the ladder and down the wall. 
a child of three sit up in his crib and scream at the top of his voice his fist clinch and his eye full of terror. at first no one hear for his nursery be in the west wing and the nurse be talk to a gardener among the laurel. then the housekeeper pass that way and hurry to soothe him. he be her special pet and she disapprove of the nurse. 
what be it then. what be it then. there s nothing to frighten him georgie dear. 
it be it be a policeman. he be on the down i saw him. he come in. jane say he would. 
policeman don t come into house dearie. turn over and take my hand. 
i saw him on the down. he come here. where be your hand harper. 
the housekeeper wait till the sob change to the regular breathe of sleep before she steal out. 
jane what nonsense have you be tell master georgie about policeman. 
i haven t tell him anything. 
you have. he s be dream about them. 
we meet tisdall on dowhead when we be in the donkey cart this morning. p r aps that s what put it into his head. 
oh. now you aren t go to frighten the child into fit with your silly tale and the master know nothing about it. if ever i catch you again etc. 
* * * * *. 
a child of six be tell himself story a he lay in bed. it be a new power and he keep it a secret. a month before it have occur to him to carry on a nursery tale leave unfinished by his mother and he be delight to find the tale a it come out of his own head just a surprise a though he be listen to it all new from the begin. there be a prince in that tale and he kill dragon but only for one night. ever afterwards georgie dub himself prince pasha giant killer and all the rest. you see he could not tell any one for fear of be laugh at. and his tale fade gradually into dreamland where adventure be so many that he could not recall the half of them. they all begin in the same way or a georgie explain to the shadow of the night light there be the same start off place a pile of brushwood stack somewhere near a beach. and round this pile georgie find himself run race with little boy and girl. these end ship run high up the dry land and open into cardboard box. or gild and green iron railing that surround beautiful garden turn all soft and could be walk through and overthrow so long a he remember it be only a dream. he could never hold that knowledge more than a few second ere thing become real and instead of push down house full of grow up people. a just revenge. he sit miserably upon gigantic door step try to sing the multiplication table up to four time six. 
the princess of his tale be a person of wonderful beauty. she come from the old illustrate edition of grimm now out of print. and a she always applaud georgie s valour among the dragon and buffalo he give her the two fine name he have ever hear in his life annie and louise pronounce annieanlouise. when the dream swamp the story she would change into one of the little girl round the brushwood pile still keep her title and crown. she saw georgie drown once in a dream sea by the beach. it be the day after he have be take to bathe in a real sea by his nurse. and he say a he sink. poor annieanlouise. she ll be sorry for me now. but annieanlouise walk slowly on the beach call ha. ha. say the duck laugh which to a wake mind might not seem to bear on the situation. it console georgie at once and must have be some kind of spell for it raise the bottom of the deep and he wad out with a twelve inch flower pot on each foot. a he be strictly forbid to meddle with flower pot in real life he felt triumphantly wicked. 
* * * * *. 
the movement of the grow up whom georgie tolerate but do not pretend to understand remove his world when he be seven year old to a place call oxford on a visit. here be huge building surround by vast prairie with street of infinite length and above all something call the buttery which georgie be die to see because he know it must be greasy and therefore delightful. he perceive how correct be his judgment when his nurse lead him through a stone arch into the presence of an enormously fat man who ask him if he would like some bread and cheese. georgie be use to eat all round the clock so he take what buttery give him and would have take some brown liquid call auditale but that his nurse lead him away to an afternoon performance of a thing call pepper s ghost. this be intensely thrill. people s head come off and fly all over the stage and skeleton dance bone by bone while mr. pepper himself beyond question a man of the bad wave his arm and flap a long gown and in a deep bass voice. georgie have never hear a man sing before. tell of his sorrow unspeakable. some grow up or other try to explain that the illusion be make with mirror and that there be no need to be frighten. georgie do not know what illusion be but he do know that a mirror be the look glass with the ivory handle on his mother s dress table. therefore the grow up be just say thing after the distress custom of grow up and georgie cast about for amusement between scene. next to him sit a little girl dress all in black her hair comb off her forehead exactly like the girl in the book call alice in wonderland which have be give him on his last birthday. the little girl look at georgie and georgie look at her. there seem to be no need of any further introduction. 
i ve get a cut on my thumb say he. it be the first work of his first real knife a savage triangular hack and he esteem it a most valuable possession. 
i m tho thorry. she lisp. let me look pleathe. 
there s a di ack lum plaster on but it s all raw under georgie answer comply. 
dothent it hurt. her grey eye be full of pity and interest. 
awf ly. perhaps it will give me lockjaw. 
it lookth very horrid. i m tho thorry. she put a forefinger to his hand and hold her head sidewise for a good view. 
here the nurse turn and shake him severely. you mustn t talk to strange little girl master georgie. 
she isn t strange. she s very nice. i like her an i ve show her my new cut. 
the idea. you change place with me. 
she move him over and shut out the little girl from his view while the grow up behind renew the futile explanation. 
i be not afraid truly say the boy wriggle in despair. but why don t you go to sleep in the afternoon same a provost of oriel. 
georgie have be introduce to a grow up of that name who sleep in his presence without apology. georgie understand that he be the most important grow up in oxford. hence he strive to gild his rebuke with flattery. this grow up do not seem to like it but he collapse and georgie lay back in his seat silent and enrapture. mr. pepper be sing again and the deep ring voice the red fire and the misty wave gown all seem to be mix up with the little girl who have be so kind about his cut. when the performance be end she nod to georgie and georgie nod in return. he speak no more than be necessary till bedtime but meditate on new color and sound and light and music and thing a far a he understand them. the deep mouth agony of mr. pepper mingle with the little girl s lisp. that night he make a new tale from which he shamelessly remove the rapunzel rapunzel let down your hair princess gold crown grimm edition and all and put a new annieanlouise in her place. so it be perfectly right and natural that when he come to the brushwood pile he should find her wait for him her hair comb off her forehead more like alice in wonderland than ever and the race and adventure begin. 
ten year at an english public school do not encourage dream. georgie win his growth and chest measurement and a few other thing which do not appear in the bill under a system of cricket foot ball and paper chase from four to five day a week which provide for three lawful cut of a grind ash if any boy absent himself from these entertainment. he become a rumple collar dusty hat fag of the low third and a light half back at little side foot ball. be push and prod through the slack backwater of the low fourth where the raffle of a school generally accumulate. win his second fifteen cap at foot ball enjoy the dignity of a study with two companion in it and begin to look forward to office a a sub prefect. at last he blossom into full glory a head of the school ex officio captain of the game. head of his house where he and his lieutenant preserve discipline and decency among seventy boy from twelve to seventeen. general arbiter in the quarrel that spring up among the touchy sixth and intimate friend and ally of the head himself. when he step forth in the black jersey white knickers and black stocking of the first fifteen the new match ball under his arm and his old and fray cap at the back of his head the small fry of the low form stand apart and worship and the new cap of the team talk to him ostentatiously that the world might see. and so in summer when he come back to the pavilion after a slow but eminently safe game it matter not whether he have make nothing or a once happen a hundred and three the school shout just the same and woman folk who have come to look at the match look at cottar cottar major. that s cottar. above all he be responsible for that thing call the tone of the school and few realise with what passionate devotion a certain type of boy throw himself into this work. home be a faraway country full of pony and fish and shoot and men visitor who interfere with one s plan. but school be the real world where thing of vital importance happen and crisis arise that must be deal with promptly and quietly. not for nothing be it write let the consul look to it that the republic take no harm and georgie be glad to be back in authority when the holiday end. behind him but not too near be the wise and temperate head now suggest the wisdom of the serpent now counsel the mildness of the dive. lead him on to see more by half hint than by any direct word how boy and men be all of a piece and how he who can handle the one will assuredly in time control the other. 
for the rest the school be not encourage to dwell on it emotion but rather to keep in hard condition to avoid false quantity and to enter the army direct without the help of the expensive london crammer under whose roof young blood learn too much. cottar major go the way of hundred before him. the head give him six month final polish teach him what kind of answer best please a certain kind of examiner and hand him over to the properly constitute authority who pass him into sandhurst. here he have sense enough to see that he be in the low third once more and behave with respect toward his senior till they in turn respect him and he be promote to the rank of corporal and sit in authority over mix people with all the vice of men and boy combine. his reward be another string of athletic cup a good conduct sword and at last her majesty s commission a a subaltern in a first class line regiment. he do not know that he bore with him from school and college a character worth much fine gold but be please to find his mess so kindly. he have plenty of money of his own. his train have set the public school mask upon his face and have teach him how many be the thing no fellow can do. by virtue of the same train he keep his pore open and his mouth shut. 
the regular work of the empire shift his world to india where he taste utter loneliness in subaltern s quarter one room and one bullock trunk and with his mess learn the new life from the begin. but there be horse in the land pony at reasonable price. there be polo for such a could afford it. there be the disreputable remnant of a pack of hound. and cottar worry his way along without too much despair. it dawn on him that a regiment in india be near the chance of active service than he have conceive and that a man might a well study his profession. a major of the new school back this idea with enthusiasm and he and cottar accumulate a library of military work and read and argue and dispute far into the night. but the adjutant say the old thing. get to know your men young un and they ll follow you anywhere. that s all you want know your men. cottar think he know them fairly well at cricket and the regimental sport but he never realise the true inwardness of them till he be send off with a detachment of twenty to sit down in a mud fort near a rush river which be span by a bridge of boat. when the flood come they go forth and hunt stray pontoon along the bank. otherwise there be nothing to do and the men get drink gamble and quarrel. they be a sickly crew for a junior subaltern be by custom saddle with the bad men. cottar endure their riot a long a he could and then send down country for a dozen pair of box glove. 
i wouldn t blame you for fightin say he if you only know how to use your hand. but you don t. take these thing and i ll show you. the men appreciate his effort. now instead of blaspheme and swear at a comrade and threaten to shoot him they could take him apart and soothe themselves to exhaustion. a one explain whom cottar find with a shut eye and a diamond shape mouth spit blood through an embrasure. we try it with the glove sir for twenty minute and that do u no good sir. then we take off the glove and try it that way for another twenty minute same a you show u sir an that do u a world o good. t wasn t fightin sir. there be a bet on. 
cottar dare not laugh but he invite his men to other sport such a race across country in shirt and trouser after a trail of tear paper and to single stick in the evening till the native population who have a lust for sport in every form wish to know whether the white men understand wrestle. they send in an ambassador who take the soldier by the neck and throw them about the dust. and the entire command be all for this new game. they spend money on learn new fall and hold which be good than buy other doubtful commodity. and the peasantry grin five deep round the tournament. 
that detachment who have go up in bullock cart return to headquarter at an average rate of thirty mile a day fair heel and toe. no sick no prisoner and no court martial pending. they scatter themselves among their friend sing the praise of their lieutenant and look for cause of offense. 
how do you do it young un. the adjutant ask. 
oh i sweat the beef off em and then i sweat some muscle on to em. it be rather a lark. 
if that s your way of lookin at it we can give you all the lark you want. young davy isn t feelin quite fit and he s next for detachment duty. care to go for him. 
sure he wouldn t mind. i don t want to shove myself forward you know. 
you needn t bother on davy s account. we ll give you the sweepin s of the corp and you can see what you can make of em. 
all right say cottar. it s good fun than loafin about cantonment. 
rummy thing say the adjutant after cottar have return to his wilderness with twenty other devil bad than the first. if cottar only know it half the woman in the station would give their eye confound em. to have the young un in tow. 
that account for mr. elery sayin i be workin my nice new boy too hard say a wing commander. 
oh yes. and why doesn t he come to the bandstand in the evening. and can t i get him to make up a four at tennis with the hammon girl. the adjutant snort. look at young davy makin an as of himself over mutton dress a lamb old enough to be his mother. 
no one can accuse young cottar of runnin after woman white or black the major reply thoughtfully. but then that s the kind that generally go the bad mucker in the end. 
not cottar. i ve only run across one of his muster before a fellow call ingles in south africa. he be just the same hard train athletic sport build of animal. always keep himself in the pink of condition. didn t do him much good though. shoot at wesselstroom the week before majuba. wonder how the young un will lick his detachment into shape. 
cottar turn up six week late on foot with his pupil. he never tell his experience but the men speak enthusiastically and fragment of it leak back to the colonel through sergeant batman and the like. 
there be great jealousy between the first and second detachment but the men unite in adore cottar and their way of show it be by spar him all the trouble that men know how to make for an unloved officer. he seek popularity a little a he have seek it at school and therefore it come to him. he favour no one not even when the company sloven pull the company cricket match out of the fire with an unexpected forty three at the last moment. there be very little get round him for he seem to know by instinct exactly when and where to head off a malingerer. but he do not forget that the difference between a daze and sulky junior of the upper school and a bewilder browbeat lump of a private fresh from the depot be very small indeed. the sergeant see these thing tell him secret generally hide from young officer. his word be quote a barrack authority on bet in canteen and at tea. and the veriest shrew of the corp burst with charge against other woman who have use the cook range out of turn forbear to speak when cottar a the regulation ordain ask of a morning if there be any complaint. 
i m full o complaint say mr. corporal morrison an i d kill o halloran s fat sow of a wife any day but ye know how it be. e put be head just inside the door an look down be bless nose so bashful an e whisper any complaint ye can t complain after that. i want to kiss him. some day i think i will. heigh ho. she ll be a lucky woman that get young innocence. see im now girl. do ye blame me. 
cottar be canter across to polo and he look a very satisfactory figure of a man a he give easily to the first excite buck of his pony and slip over a low mud wall to the practice grind. there be more than mr. corporal morrison who felt a she do. but cottar be busy for eleven hour of the day. he do not care to have his tennis spoil by petticoat in the court. and after one long afternoon at a garden party he explain to his major that this sort of thing be futile priffle and the major laugh. theirs be not a marry mess except for the colonel s wife and cottar stand in awe of the good lady. she say my regiment and the world know what that mean. none the le when they want her to give away the prize after a shoot match and she refuse because one of the prize winner be marry to a girl who have make a jest of her behind her broad back the mess order cottar to tackle her in his best call kit. this he do simply and laboriously and she give way altogether. 
she only want to know the fact of the case he explain. i just tell her and she saw at once. 
ye e say the adjutant. i expect that s what she do. comin to the fusilier dance to night galahad. 
no thank. i ve get a fight on with the major. the virtuous apprentice sit up till midnight in the major s quarter with a stop watch and a pair of compass shift little paint lead block about a four inch map. 
then he turn in and sleep the sleep of innocence which be full of healthy dream. one peculiarity of his dream he notice at the begin of his second hot weather. two or three time a month they duplicate or run in series. he would find himself slide into dreamland by the same road a road that run along a beach near a pile of brushwood. to the right lay the sea sometimes at full tide sometimes withdraw to the very horizon. but he know it for the same sea. by that road he would travel over a swell of rise grind cover with short wither grass into valley of wonder and unreason. beyond the ridge which be crown with some sort of street lamp anything be possible. but up to the lamp it seem to him that he know the road a well a he know the parade grind. he learn to look forward to the place. for once there he be sure of a good night s rest and indian hot weather can be rather try. first shadowy under close eyelid would come the outline of the brushwood pile. next the white sand of the beach road almost overhang the black changeful sea. then the turn inland and uphill to the single light. when he be unrestful for any reason he would tell himself how he be sure to get there sure to get there if he shut his eye and surrender to the drift of thing. but one night after a foolishly hard hour s polo. the thermometer be  in his quarter at ten o clock. sleep stand away from him altogether though he do his best to find the well know road the point where true sleep begin. at last he saw the brushwood pile and hurry along to the ridge for behind him he felt be the wide awake sultry world. he reach the lamp in safety tingle with drowsiness when a policeman a common country policeman spring up before him and touch him on the shoulder ere he could dive into the dim valley below. he be fill with terror the hopeless terror of dream for the policeman say in the awful distinct voice of dream people i be policeman day come back from the city of sleep. you come with me. georgie know it be true that just beyond him in the valley lay the light of the city of sleep where he would have be shelter and that this policeman thing have full power and authority to head him back to miserable wakefulness. he find himself look at the moonlight on the wall drip with fright. and he never overcome that horror though he meet the policeman several time that hot weather and his come be the forerunner of a bad night. 
but other dream perfectly absurd one fill him with an incommunicable delight. all those that he remember begin by the brushwood pile. for instance he find a small clockwork steamer. he have notice it many night before. lie by the sea road and step into it whereupon it move with surpass swiftness over an absolutely level sea. this be glorious for he felt he be explore great matter. and it stop by a lily carve in stone which most naturally float on the water. see the lily be label hong kong georgie say. of course. this be precisely what i expect hong kong would be like. how magnificent. thousand of mile farther on it halt at yet another stone lily label java. and this again delight him hugely because he know that now he be at the world s end. but the little boat run on and on till it lay in a deep fresh water lock the side of which be carven marble green with moss. lilypads lay on the water and reed arch above. some one move among the reed some one whom georgie know he have travel to this world s end to reach. therefore everything be entirely well with him. he be unspeakably happy and vault over the ship s side to find this person. when his foot touch that still water it change with the rustle of unroll map to nothing le than a sixth quarter of the globe beyond the most remote imagine of man a place where island be colour yellow and blue their letter string across their face. they give on unknown sea and georgie s urgent desire be to return swiftly across this float atlas to know bearing. he tell himself repeatedly that it be no good to hurry. but still he hurry desperately and the island slip and slide under his foot. the strait yawn and widen till he find himself utterly lose in the world s fourth dimension with no hope of return. yet only a little distance away he could see the old world with the river and mountain chain mark accord to the sandhurst rule of mapmaking. then that person for whom he have come to the lily lock. that be it name. run up across unexplored territory and show him away. they flee hand in hand till they reach a road that span ravine and run along the edge of precipice and be tunnel through mountain. this go to our brushwood pile say his companion. and all his trouble be at an end. he take a pony because he understand that this be the thirty mile ride and he must ride swiftly and race through the clatter tunnel and round the curve always downhill till he hear the sea to his leave and saw it rag under a full moon against sandy cliff. it be heavy go but he recognise the nature of the country the dark purple down inland and the bent that whistle in the wind. the road be eat away in place and the sea lash at him black foamless tongue of smooth and glossy roller. but he be sure that there be le danger from the sea than from them whoever they be inland to his right. he know too that he would be safe if he could reach the down with the lamp on it. this come a he expect. he saw the one light a mile ahead along the beach dismount turn to the right walk quietly over to the brushwood pile find the little steamer have return to the beach whence he have unmoored it and must have fall asleep for he could remember no more. i m gettin the hang of the geography of that place he say to himself a he shave next morning. i must have make some sort of circle. let s see. the thirty mile ride. now how the deuce do i know it be call the thirty mile ride. join the sea road beyond the first down where the lamp be. and that atlas country lie at the back of the thirty mile ride somewhere out to the right beyond the hill and tunnel. rummy thing dream. wonder what make mine fit into each other so. 
he continue on his solid way through the recur duty of the season. the regiment be shift to another station and he enjoy road march for two month with a good deal of mix shoot throw in and when they reach their new cantonment he become a member of the local tent club and chase the mighty boar on horseback with a short stab spear. there he meet the mahseer of the poonch beside whom the tarpon be a a herring and he who land him can say that he be a fisherman. this be a new and a fascinate a the big game shoot that fell to his portion when he have himself photograph for the mother s benefit sit on the flank of his first tiger. 
then the adjutant be promote and cottar rejoice with him for he admire the adjutant greatly and marvel who might be big enough to fill his place. so that he nearly collapse when the mantle fell on his own shoulder and the colonel say a few sweet thing that make him blush. an adjutant s position doe not differ materially from that of head of the school and cottar stand in the same relation to the colonel a he have to his old head in england. only temper wear out in hot weather and thing be say and do that try him sorely and he make glorious blunder from which the regimental sergeant major pull him with a loyal soul and a shut mouth. sloven and incompetent rag against him. the weak mind strive to lure him from the way of justice. the small mind yea men whom cottar believe would never do thing no fellow can do impute motif mean and circuitous to action that he have not spend a think upon. and he taste injustice and it make him very sick. but his consolation come on parade when he look down the full company and reflect how few be in hospital or cell and wonder when the time would come to try the machine of his love and labour. 
but they need and expect the whole of a man s work day and maybe three or four hour of the night. curiously enough he never dream about the regiment a he be popularly suppose to. the mind set free from the day s do generally cease work altogether or if it move at all carry him along the old beach road to the down the lamp post and once in a while to terrible policeman day. the second time that he return to the world s lose continent. this be a dream that repeat itself again and again with variation on the same grind. he know that if he only sit still the person from the lily lock would help him and he be not disappoint. sometimes he be trap in mine of vast depth hollow out of the heart of the world where men in torment chant echo song. and he hear this person come along through the gallery and everything be make safe and delightful. they meet again in low roof indian railway carriage that halt in a garden surround by gild and green railing where a mob of stony white people all unfriendly sit at breakfast table cover with rose and separate georgie from his companion while underground voice sing deep voice song. georgie be fill with enormous despair till they two meet again. they foregather in the middle of an endless hot tropic night and creep into a huge house that stand he know somewhere north of the railway station where the people eat among the rose. it be surround with garden all moist and drip. and in one room reach through league of whitewash passage a sick thing lay in bed. now the least noise georgie know would unchain some wait horror and his companion know it too. but when their eye meet across the bed georgie be disgust to see that she be a child a little girl in strap shoe with her black hair comb back from her forehead. 
what disgraceful folly. he think. now she could do nothing whatever if it head come off. 
then the thing cough and the ceiling shatter down in plaster on the mosquito net and they rush in from all quarter. he drag the child through the stifle garden voice chant behind them and they ride the thirty mile ride under whip and spur along the sandy beach by the boom sea till they come to the down the lamp post and the brushwood pile which be safety. very often dream would break up about them in this fashion and they would be separate to endure awful adventure alone. but the most amuse time be when he and she have a clear understand that it be all make believe and walk through mile wide roar river without even take off their shoe or set light to populous city to see how they would burn and be rude a any child to the vague shadow meet in their ramble. late in the night they be sure to suffer for this either at the hand of the railway people eat among the rose or in the tropic upland at the far end of the thirty mile ride. together this do no much affright them. but often georgie would hear her shrill cry of boy. boy. half a world away and hurry to her rescue before they maltreat her. 
he and she explore the dark purple down a far inland from the brushwood pile a they dare but that be always a dangerous matter. the interior be fill with them and they go about sing in the hollow and georgie and she felt safe on or near the seaboard. so thoroughly have he come to know the place of his dream that even wake he accept it a a real country and make a rough sketch of it. he keep his own counsel of course. but the permanence of the land puzzle him. his ordinary dream be a formless and a fleet a any healthy dream could be but once at the brushwood pile he move within know limit and could see where he be go. there be month at a time when nothing notable cross his sleep. then the dream would come in a batch of five or six and next morning the map that he keep in his write case would be write up to date for georgie be a most methodical person. there be indeed a danger his senior say so of his develop into a regular auntie fuss of an adjutant and when an officer once take to old maidism there be more hope for the virgin of seventy than for him. 
but fate send the change that be need in the shape of a little winter campaign on the border which after the manner of little campaign flash out into a very ugly war. and cottar s regiment be choose among the first. 
now say a major this ll shake the cobweb out of u all especially you galahad. and we can see what your hen with one chick attitude ha do for the regiment. 
cottar nearly weep with joy a the campaign go forward. they be fit physically fit beyond the other troop. they be good child in camp wet or dry feed or unfed. and they follow their officer with the quick suppleness and train obedience of a first class foot ball fifteen. they be cut off from their apology for a base and cheerfully cut their way back to it again. they crown and clean out hill full of the enemy with the precision of well break dog of chase. and in the hour of retreat when hamper with the sick and wound of the column they be persecute down eleven mile of waterless valley they serve a rearguard cover themselves with a great glory in the eye of fellow professional. any regiment can advance but few know how to retreat with a sting in the tail. then they turn to make road most often under fire and dismantle some inconvenient mud redoubt. they be the last corp to be withdraw when the rubbish of the campaign be all sweep up. and after a month in stand camp which try moral severely they depart to their own place in column of four sing. 
e s goin to do without em don t want em any more. e s goin to do without em a e s often do before. e s goin to be a martyr on a ighly novel plan an all the boy and girl will say ow. what a nice young man man man. ow. what a nice young man. 
there come out a gazette in which cottar find that he have be behave with courage and coolness and discretion in all his capacity. that he have assist the wound under fire and blow in a gate also under fire. net result his captaincy and a brevet majority couple with the distinguish service order. 
a to his wound he explain that they be both heavy men whom he could lift more easily than any one else. otherwise of course i should have send out one of my men. and of course about that gate business we be safe the minute we be well under the wall. but this do not prevent his men from cheer him furiously whenever they saw him or the mess from give him a dinner on the eve of his departure to england. a year s leave be among the thing he have snaffle out of the campaign i to use his own word. the doctor who have take quite a much a be good for him quote poetry about a good blade carve the casque of men and so on and everybody tell cottar that he be an excellent person. but when he rise to make his maiden speech they shout so that he be understand to say it isn t any use tryin to speak with you chap rottin me like this. let s have some pool. 
* * * * *. 
it be not unpleasant to spend eight and twenty day in an easy go steamer on warm water in the company of a woman who let you see that you be head and shoulder superior to the rest of the world even though that woman may be and most often be ten count year your senior. p. o. boat be not light with the disgustful particularity of atlantic liner. there be more phosphorescence at the bow and great silence and darkness by the hand steer gear aft. 
awful thing might have happen to georgie but for the little fact that he have never study the first principle of the game he be expect to play. so when mr. zuleika at aden tell him how motherly an interest she felt in his welfare medal brevet and all georgie take her at the foot of the letter and promptly talk of his own mother three hundred mile near each day of his home and so forth all the way up the red sea. it be much easy than he have suppose to converse with a woman for an hour at a time. then mr. zuleika turn from parental affection speak of love in the abstract a a thing not unworthy of study and in discreet twilight after dinner demand confidence. georgie would have be delight to supply them but he have none and do not know it be his duty to manufacture them. mr. zuleika express surprise and unbelief and ask those question which deep ask of deep. she learn all that be necessary to conviction and be very much a woman resume. georgie never know that she have abandon. the motherly attitude. 
do you know she say somewhere in the mediterranean i think you re the very dear boy i have ever meet in my life and i d like you to remember me a little. you will when you be old but i want you to remember me now. you ll make some girl very happy. 
oh. hope so say georgie gravely. but there s heap of time for marryin an all that sort of thing ain t there. 
that depend. here be your bean bag for the lady competition. i think i m grow too old to care for these tamashas. 
they be get up sport and georgie be on the committee. he never notice how perfectly the bag be sew but another woman do and smile once. he like mr. zuleika greatly. she be a bite old of course but uncommonly nice. there be no nonsense about her. 
a few night after they pass gibraltar his dream return to him. she who wait by the brushwood pile be no long a little girl but a woman with black hair that grow into a widow s peak comb back from her forehead. he know her for the child in black the companion of the last six year and a it have be in the time of the meeting on the lose continent he be fill with delight unspeakable. they for some dreamland reason be friendly or have go away that night and the two flit together over all their country from the brushwood pile up the thirty mile ride till they saw the house of the sick thing a pin point in the distance to the leave. stamp through the railway wait room where the rose lay on the spread breakfast table. and return by the ford and the city they have once burn for sport to the great swell of the down under the lamp post. wherever they move a strong sing follow them underground but this night there be no panic. all the land be empty except for themselves and at the last. they be sit by the lamp post hand in hand. she turn and kiss him. he wake with a start star at the wave curtain of the cabin door. he could almost have swear that the kiss be real. 
next morning the ship be roll in a biscay sea and people be not happy. but a georgie come to breakfast shave tubbed and smell of soap several turn to look at him because of the light in his eye and the splendour of his countenance. 
well you look beastly fit snap a neighbour. any one leave you a legacy in the middle of the bay. 
georgie reach for the curry with a seraphic grin. i suppose it s the gettin so near home and all that. i do feel rather festive this mornin. roll a bite doesn t she. 
mr. zuleika stay in her cabin till the end of the voyage when she leave without bid him farewell and weep passionately on the dock head for pure joy of meet her child who she have often say be so like their father. 
georgie head for his own country wild with delight of his first long furlough after the lean season. nothing be change in that orderly life from the coachman who meet him at the station to the white peacock that storm at the carriage from the stone wall above the shave lawn. the house take toll of him with due regard to precedence first the mother. then the father. then the housekeeper who weep and praise god. then the butler and so on down to the under keeper who have be dogboy in georgie s youth and call him master georgie and be reprove by the groom who have teach georgie to ride. 
not a thing change he sigh contentedly when the three of them sit down to dinner in the late sunlight while the rabbit creep out upon the lawn below the cedar and the big trout in the pond by the home paddock rise for their even meal. 
our change be all over dear coo the mother. and now i be get use to your size and your tan. you re very brown georgie. i see you haven t change in the least. you re exactly like the pater. 
the father beam on this man after his own heart young major in the army and should have have the v. c. sir and the butler listen with his professional mask off when master georgie speak of war a it be wag to day and his father cross question. 
they go out on the terrace to smoke among the rose and the shadow of the old house lay long across the wonderful english foliage which be the only live green in the world. 
perfect. by jove it s perfect. georgie be look at the round bosom wood beyond the home paddock where the white pheasant box be range. and the golden air be full of a hundred sacred scent and sound. georgie felt his father s arm tighten in his. 
it s not half bad but hodie mihi cras tibi isn t it. i suppose you ll be turn up some fine day with a girl under your arm if you haven t one now eh. 
you can make your mind easy sir. i haven t one. 
not in all these year. say the mother. 
i hadn t time mummy. they keep a man pretty busy these day in the service and most of our mess be unmarried too. 
but you must have meet hundred in society at ball and so on. 
i m like the tenth mummy. i don t dance. 
don t dance. what have you be do with yourself then back other men s bill. say the father. 
oh yes. i ve do a little of that too. but you see a thing be now a man ha all his work cut out for him to keep abreast of his profession and my day be always too full to let me lark about half the night. 
hmm. suspiciously. 
it s never too late to learn. we ought to give some kind of housewarming for the people about now you ve come back. unless you want to go straight up to town dear. 
no. i don t want anything good than this. let s sit still and enjoy ourselves. i suppose there will be something for me to ride if i look for it. 
see i ve be keep down to the old brown pair for the last six week because all the others be be get ready for master georgie i should say there might be the father chuckle. they re remind me in a hundred way that i must take the second place now. 
brute. 
the pater doesn t mean it dear. but every one ha be try to make your home come a success. and you do like it don t you. 
perfect. perfect. there s no place like england when you ve do your work. 
that s the proper way to look at it my son. 
and so up and down the flag walk till their shadow grow long in the moonlight and the mother go indoors and play such song a a small boy once clamour for and the squat silver candlestick be bring in and georgie climb to the two room in the west wing that have be his nursery and his playroom in the begin. then who should come to tuck him up for the night but the mother. and she sit down on the bed and they talk for a long hour a mother and son should if there be to be any future for the empire. with a simple woman s deep guile she ask question and suggest answer that should have wake some sign in the face on the pillow and there be neither quiver of eyelid nor quicken of breath neither evasion nor delay in reply. so she bless him and kiss him on the mouth which be not always a mother s property and say something to her husband late at which he laugh profane and incredulous laugh. 
all the establishment wait on georgie next morning from the tall six year old with a mouth like a kid glove master georgie to the under keeper stroll carelessly along the horizon georgie s pet rod in his hand and there s a four pounder risin below the lasher. you don t ave em in injia mast major georgie. it be all beautiful beyond tell even though the mother insist on take him out in the landau. the leather have the hot sunday smell of his youth. and show him off to her friend at all the house for six mile round. and the pater bore him up to town and a lunch at the club where he introduce him quite carelessly to not le than thirty ancient warrior whose son be not the young major in the army and have not the d. s. o. after that it be georgie s turn. and remember his friend he fill up the house with that kind of officer who live in cheap lodging at southsea or montpelier square brompton good men all but not well off. the mother perceive that they need girl to play with. and a there be no scarcity of girl the house hum like a dovecote in spring. they tear up the place for amateur theatrical. they disappear in the garden when they ought to have be rehearse. they sweep off every available horse and vehicle especially the govern cart and the fat pony. they fell into the trout pond. they picnic and they tennised. and they sit on gate in the twilight two by two and georgie find that he be not in the least necessary to their entertainment. 
my word. say he when he saw the last of their dear back. they tell me they ve enjoy emselves but they haven t do half the thing they say they would. 
i know they ve enjoy themselves immensely say the mother. you re a public benefactor dear. 
now we can be quiet again can t we. 
oh quite. i ve a very dear friend of mine that i want you to know. she couldn t come with the house so full because she s an invalid and she be away when you first come. she s a mr. lacy. 
lacy. i don t remember the name about here. 
no. they come after you go to india from oxford. her husband die there and she lose some money i believe. they buy the fir on the bassett road. she s a very sweet woman and we re very fond of them both. 
she s a widow didn t you say. 
she ha a daughter. surely i say so dear. 
doe she fall into trout pond and gas and giggle and oh major cottah. and all that sort of thing. 
no indeed. she s a very quiet girl and very musical. she always come over here with her music book compose you know. and she generally work all day so you win t. 
talk about miriam. say the pater come up. the mother edge toward him within elbow reach. there be no finesse about georgie s father. oh miriam s a dear girl. play beautifully. ride beautifully too. she s a regular pet of the household. use to call me the elbow go home and ignorant but obedient always the pater shut himself off. 
what use she to call you sir. 
all sort of pet name. i m very fond of miriam. 
sound jewish miriam. 
jew. you ll be call yourself a jew next. she s one of the herefordshire lacys. when her aunt dy again the elbow. 
oh you win t see anything of her georgie. she s busy with her music or her mother all day. besides you re go up to town tomorrow aren t you. i think you say something about an institute meet. the mother speak. 
go up to town now. what nonsense. once more the pater be shut off. 
i have some idea of it but i m not quite sure say the son of the house. why do the mother try to get him away because a musical girl and her invalid parent be expect. he do not approve of unknown female call his father pet name. he would observe these push person who have be only seven year in the county. 
all of which the delight mother read in his countenance herself keep an air of sweet disinterestedness. 
they ll be here this even for dinner. i m send the carriage over for them and they win t stay more than a week. 
perhaps i shall go up to town. i don t quite know yet. georgie move away irresolutely. there be a lecture at the unite service institute on the supply of ammunition in the field and the one man whose theory most irritate major cottar would deliver it. a heat discussion be sure to follow and perhaps he might find himself move to speak. he take his rod that afternoon and go down to thrash it out among the trout. 
good sport dear. say the mother from the terrace. 
fraid it win t be mummy. all those men from town and the girl particularly have put every trout off his fee for week. there isn t one of em that care for fishin really. fancy stampin and shoutin on the bank and tellin every fish for half a mile exactly what you re goin to do and then chuckin a brute of a fly at him. by jove it would scare me if i be a trout. 
but thing be not a bad a he have expect. the black gnat be on the water and the water be strictly preserve. a three quarter pounder at the second cast set him for the campaign and he work down stream crouch behind the reed and meadowsweet. creep between a hornbeam hedge and a foot wide strip of bank where he could see the trout but where they could not distinguish him from the background. lie almost on his stomach to switch the blue upright sidewise through the checker shadow of a gravelly ripple under overarch tree. but he have know every inch of the water since he be four foot high. the age and astute between sink root with the large and fat that lay in the frothy scum below some strong rush of water suck a lazily a carp come to trouble in their turn at the hand that imitate so delicately the flicker and wimple of an egg drop fly. consequently georgie find himself five mile from home when he ought to have be dress for dinner. the housekeeper have take good care that her boy should not go empty and before he change to the white moth he sit down to excellent claret with sandwich of pot egg and thing that adore woman make and men never notice. then back to surprise the otter grub for fresh water mussel the rabbit on the edge of the beechwood forage in the clover and the policeman like white owl stoop to the little fieldmouse till the moon be strong and he take his rod apart and go home through well remember gap in the hedge. he fetch a compass round the house for though he might have break every law of the establishment every hour the law of his boyhood be unbreakable. after fish you go in by the south garden back door clean up in the out scullery and do not present yourself to your elder and your better till you have wash and change. 
half past ten by jove. well we ll make the sport an excuse. they wouldn t want to see me the first even at any rate. go to bed probably. he skirt by the open french window of the draw room. no they haven t. they look very comfy in there. 
he could see his father in his own particular chair the mother in hers and the back of a girl at the piano by the big potpourri jar. the garden look half divine in the moonlight and he turn down through the rose to finish his pipe. 
a prelude end and there float out a voice of the kind that in his childhood he use to call creamy a full true contralto. and this be the song that he hear every syllable of it. 
over the edge of the purple down where the single lamplight gleam know ye the road to the merciful town that be hard by the sea of dream where the poor may lay their wrong away and the sick may forget to weep. but we pity u. oh pity u. we wakeful. ah pity u. we must go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
weary they turn from the scroll and crown fetter and prayer and plough they that go up to the merciful town for her gate be close now. it be their right in the bath of night body and soul to steep but we pity u. ah pity u. we wakeful. oh pity u. we must go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
over the edge of the purple down ere the tender dream begin look we may look at the merciful town but we may not enter in. outcast all from her guard wall back to our watch we creep. we pity u. ah pity u. we wakeful. oh pity u. we that go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
at the last echo he be aware that his mouth be dry and unknown pulse be beat in the roof of it. the housekeeper who would have it that he must have fall in and catch a chill be wait to catch him on the stair and since he neither saw nor answer her carry a wild tale abroad that bring his mother knock at the door. 
anything happen dear. harper say she think you weren t. 
no. it s nothing. i m all right mummy. please don t bother. 
he do not recognise his own voice but that be a small matter beside what he be consider. obviously most obviously the whole coincidence be crazy lunacy. he prove it to the satisfaction of major george cottar who be go up to town to morrow to hear a lecture on the supply of ammunition in the field. and have so prove it the soul and brain and heart and body of georgie cry joyously. that s the lily lock girl the lose continent girl the thirty mile ride girl the brushwood girl. i know her. 
he wake stiff and cramp in his chair to reconsider the situation by sunlight when it do not appear normal. but a man must eat and he go to breakfast his heart between his teeth hold himself severely in hand. 
late a usual say the mother. my boy miss lacy. 
a tall girl in black raise her eye to his and georgie s life train desert him just a soon a he realise that she do not know. he star coolly and critically. there be the abundant black hair grow in a widow s peak turn back from the forehead with that peculiar ripple over the right ear. there be the grey eye set a little close together. the short upper lip resolute chin and the know poise of the head. there be also the small well cut mouth that have kiss him. 
georgie dear. say the mother amazedly for miriam be flush under the stare. 
i i beg your pardon. he gulp. i don t know whether the mother ha tell you but i m rather an idiot at time specially before i ve have my breakfast. it s it s a family fail. he turn to explore among the hot water dish on the sideboard rejoice that she do not know she do not know. 
his conversation for the rest of the meal be mildly insane though the mother think she have never see her boy look half so handsome. how could any girl least of all one of miriam s discernment forbear to fall down and worship. but deeply miriam be displease. she have never be star at in that fashion before and promptly retire into her shell when georgie announce that he have change his mind about go to town and would stay to play with miss lacy if she have nothing good to do. 
oh but don t let me throw you out. i m at work. i ve thing to do all the morning. 
what possess georgie to behave so oddly. the mother sigh to herself. miriam s a bundle of feeling like her mother. 
you compose don t you. must be a fine thing to be able to do that. [ pig oh pig. think miriam. ] i think i hear you singin when i come in last night after fishin. all about a sea of dream wasn t it. [miriam shudder to the core of the soul that afflict her. ] awfully pretty song. how d you think of such thing. 
you only compose the music dear didn t you. 
the word too. i m sure of it say georgie with a sparkle eye. no. she do not know. 
yeth. i write the word too. miriam speak slowly for she know she lisp when she be nervous. 
now how could you tell georgie. say the mother a delight a though the young major in the army be ten year old show off before company. 
i be sure of it somehow. oh there be heap of thing about me mummy that you don t understand. look a if it be goin to be a hot day for england. would you care for a ride this afternoon miss lacy. we can start out after tea if you d like it. 
miriam could not in decency refuse but any woman might see she be not fill with delight. 
that will be very nice if you take the bassett road. it will save me send martin down to the village say the mother fill in gap. 
like all good manager the mother have her one weakness a mania for little strategy that should economise horse and vehicle. her men folk complain that she turn them into common carrier and there be a legend in the family that she have once say to the pater on the morning of a meet. if you should kill near bassett dear and if it isn t too late would you mind just pop over and match me this. 
i know that be come. you d never miss a chance mother. if it s a fish or a trunk i win t. georgie laugh. 
it s only a duck. they can do it up very neatly at mallett s say the mother simply. you win t mind will you. we ll have a scratch dinner at nine because it s so hot. 
the long summer day drag itself out for century. but at last there be tea on the lawn and miriam appear. 
she be in the saddle before he could offer to help with the clean spring of the child who mount the pony for the thirty mile ride. the day hold mercilessly though georgie get down thrice to look for imaginary stone in rufus s foot. one cannot say even simple thing in broad light and this that georgie meditate be not simple. so he speak seldom and miriam be divide between relief and scorn. it annoy her that the great hulk thing should know she have write the word of the song overnight. for though a maiden may sing her most secret fancy aloud she doe not care to have them trample over by the male philistine. they ride into the little red brick street of bassett and georgie make untold fuss over the disposition of that duck. it must go in just such a package and be fasten to the saddle in just such a manner though eight o clock have strike and they be mile from dinner. 
we must be quick. say miriam bore and angry. 
there s no great hurry. but we can cut over dowhead down and let em out on the grass. that will save u half an hour. 
the horse caper on the short sweet smell turf and the delay shadow gather in the valley a they canter over the great dun down that overhang bassett and the western coach road. insensibly the pace quicken without think of mole hill. rufus gentleman that he be wait on miriam s dandy till they should have clear the rise. then down the two mile slope they race together the wind whistle in their ear to the steady throb of eight hoof and the light click click of the shift bit. 
oh that be glorious. miriam cry rein in. dandy and i be old friend but i don t think we ve ever go good together. 
no. but you ve go quick once or twice. 
really. when. 
georgie moisten his lip. don t you remember the thirty mile ride with me when they be after u on the beach road with the sea to the leave go toward the lamp post on the down. 
the girl gasp. what what do you mean. she say hysterically. 
the thirty mile ride and and all the rest of it. 
you mean. i didn t sing anything about the thirty mile ride. i know i didn t. i have never tell a live soul. 
you tell about policeman day and the lamp at the top of the down and the city of sleep. it all join on you know it s the same country and it be easy enough to see where you have be. 
good god. it join on of course it doe. but i have be you have be oh let s walk please or i shall fall off. 
georgie range alongside and lay a hand that shake below her bridle hand pull dandy into a walk. miriam be sob a he have see a man sob under the touch of the bullet. 
it s all right it s all right he whisper feebly. only only it s true you know. 
true. be i mad. 
not unless i m mad a well. do try to think a minute quietly. how could any one conceivably know anything about the thirty mile ride have anything to do with you unless he have be there. 
but where. but where. tell me. 
there wherever it may be in our country i suppose. do you remember the first time you ride it the thirty mile ride i mean. you must. 
it be all dream all dream. 
yes but tell please. because i know. 
let me think. i we be on no account to make any noise on no account to make any noise. she be star between dandy s ear with eye that do not see and a suffocate heart. 
because it be die in the big house. georgie go on rein in again. 
there be a garden with green and gild railing all hot. do you remember. 
i ought to. i be sit on the other side of the bed before it cough and they come in. 
you. the deep voice be unnaturally full and strong and the girl s wide open eye burn in the dusk a she star him through and through. then you re the boy my brushwood boy and i ve know you all my life. 
she fell forward on dandy s neck. georgie force himself out of the weakness that be overmaster his limb and slide an arm round her waist. the head drop on his shoulder and he find himself with parch lip say thing that up till then he believe exist only in print work of fiction. mercifully the horse be quiet. she make no attempt to draw herself away when she recover but lay still whisper of course you re the boy and i didn t know i didn t know. 
i know last night. and when i saw you at breakfast. 
oh that be why. i wonder at the time. you would of course. 
i couldn t speak before this. keep your head where it be dear. it s all right now all right now isn t it. 
but how be it i didn t know after all these year and year. i remember oh what lot of thing i remember. 
tell me some. i ll look after the horse. 
i remember wait for you when the steamer come in. do you. 
at the lily lock beyond hong kong and java. 
do you call it that too. 
you tell me it be when i be lose in the continent. that be you that show me the way through the mountain. 
when the island slide. it must have be because you re the only one i remember. all the others be them. 
awful brute they be too. 
i remember show you the thirty mile ride the first time. you ride just a you use to then. you be you. 
that s odd. i think that of you this afternoon. isn t it wonderful. 
what doe it all mean. why should you and i of the million of people in the world have this this thing between u. what doe it mean. i m frighten. 
this. say georgie. the horse quicken their pace. they think they have hear an order. perhaps when we die we may find out more but it mean this now. 
there be no answer. what could she say. a the world go they have know each other rather le than eight and a half hour but the matter be one that do not concern the world. there be a very long silence while the breath in their nostril draw cold and sharp a it might have be a fume of ether. 
that s the second georgie whisper. you remember don t you. 
it s not. furiously. it s not. 
on the down the other night month ago. you be just a you be now and we go over the country for mile and mile. 
it be all empty too. they have go away. nobody frighten u. i wonder why boy. 
oh if you remember that you must remember the rest. confess. 
i remember lot of thing but i know i didn t. i never have till just now. 
you do dear. 
i know i didn t because oh it s no use keep anything back. because i truthfully mean to. 
and truthfully do. 
no. mean to. but some one else come by. 
there wasn t any one else. there never ha be. 
there be there always be. it be another woman out there on the sea. i saw her. it be the th of may. i ve get it write down somewhere. 
oh you ve keep a record of your dream too. that s odd about the other woman because i happen to be on the sea just then. 
i be right. how do i know what you ve do when you be awake and i think it be only you. 
you never be more wrong in your life. what a little temper you ve get. listen to me a minute dear. and georgie though he know it not commit black perjury. it it isn t the kind of thing one say to any one because they d laugh. but on my word and honour darling i ve never be kiss by a live soul outside my own people in all my life. don t laugh dear. i wouldn t tell any one but you but it s the solemn truth. 
i know. you be you. oh i know you d come some day. but i didn t know you be you in the least till you speak. 
then give me another. 
and you never care or look anywhere. why all the round world must have love you from the very minute they saw you boy. 
they keep it to themselves if they do. no. i never care. 
and we shall be late for dinner horribly late. oh how can i look at you in the light before your mother and mine. 
we ll play you re miss lacy till the proper time come. what s the short limit for people to get engage. s pose we have get to go through all the fuss of an engagement haven t we. 
oh i don t want to talk about that. it s so commonplace. i ve think of something that you don t know. i m sure of it. what s my name. 
miri no it isn t by jove. wait half a second and it ll come back to me. you aren t you can t. why those old tale before i go to school. i ve never think of em from that day to this. be you the original only annieanlouise. 
it be what you always call me ever since the begin. oh. we ve turn into the avenue and we must be an hour late. 
what doe it matter. the chain go a far back a those day. it must of course of course it must. i ve get to ride round with this pestilent old bird confound him. 
ha. ha. say the duck laugh do you remember that. 
yes i do flower pot on my foot and all. we ve be together all this while. and i ve get to say good bye to you till dinner. sure i ll see you at dinner time. sure you win t sneak up to your room darling and leave me all the even. good bye dear good bye. 
good bye boy good bye. mind the arch. don t let rufus bolt into his stable. good bye. yes i ll come down to dinner. but what shall i do when i see you in the light. 
