life s handicap. 
be story of mine own people. 
by rudyard kipling. 

to e. k. r. from r. k. c. m. g. 
preface. 
in northern india stand a monastery call the chubara of dhunni bhagat. no one remember who or what dhunni bhagat have be. he have live his life make a little money and spend it all a every good hindu should do on a work of piety the chubara. that be full of brick cell gaily paint with the figure of god and king and elephant where wear out priest could sit and meditate on the latter end of thing. the path be brick pave and the naked foot of thousand have wear them into gutter. clump of mango sprout from between the brick. great pipal tree overhang the well windlass that whine all day. and host of parrot tear through the tree. crow and squirrel be tame in that place for they know that never a priest would touch them. 
the wander mendicant charm seller and holy vagabond for a hundred mile round use to make the chubara their place of call and rest. mahomedan sikh and hindu mix equally under the tree. they be old men and when man ha come to the turnstile of night all the creed in the world seem to him wonderfully alike and colourless. 
gobind the one eye tell me this. he be a holy man who live on an island in the middle of a river and feed the fish with little bread pellet twice a day. in flood time when swell corps strand themselves at the foot of the island gobind would cause them to be piously burn for the sake of the honour of mankind and have regard to his own account with god hereafter. but when two third of the island be tear away in a spate gobind come across the river to dhunni bhagat s chubara he and his brass drink vessel with the well cord round the neck his short arm rest crutch stud with brass nail his roll of bed his big pipe his umbrella and his tall sugar loaf hat with the nod peacock feather in it. he wrap himself up in his patch quilt make of every colour and material in the world sit down in a sunny corner of the very quiet chubara and rest his arm on his short handle crutch wait for death. the people bring him food and little clump of marigold flower and he give his bless in return. he be nearly blind and his face be seam and line and wrinkle beyond belief for he have live in his time which be before the english come within five hundred mile of dhunni bhagat s chubara. 
when we grow to know each other well gobind would tell me tale in a voice most like the rumble of heavy gun over a wooden bridge. his tale be true but not one in twenty could be print in an english book because the english do not think a native do. they brood over matter that a native would dismiss till a fit occasion. and what they would not think twice about a native will brood over till a fit occasion. then native and english stare at each other hopelessly across great gulf of miscomprehension. 
and what say gobind one sunday even be your honour craft and by what manner of mean earn you your daily bread. 
i be say i a kerani one who write with a pen upon paper not be in the service of the government. 
then what do you write. say gobind. come near for i cannot see your countenance and the light fail. 
i write of all matter that lie within my understand and of many that do not. but chiefly i write of life and death and men and woman and love and fate accord to the measure of my ability tell the tale through the mouth of one two or more people. then by the favour of god the tale be sell and money accrue to me that i may keep alive. 
even so say gobind. that be the work of the bazar story teller. but he speak straight to men and woman and doe not write anything at all. only when the tale ha arouse expectation and calamity be about to befall the virtuous he stop suddenly and demand payment ere he continue the narration. be it so in your craft my son. 
i have hear of such thing when a tale be of great length and be sell a a cucumber in small piece. 
ay i be once a famed teller of story when i be beg on the road between koshin and etra. before the last pilgrimage that ever i take to orissa. i tell many tale and hear many more at the rest house in the even when we be merry at the end of the march. it be in my heart that grow men be but a little child in the matter of tale and the old tale be the most beloved. 
with your people that be truth say i. but in regard to our people they desire new tale and when all be write they rise up and declare that the tale be good tell in such and such a manner and doubt either the truth or the invention thereof. 
but what folly be theirs. say gobind throw out his knot hand. a tale that be tell be a true tale a long a the tell last. and of their talk upon it you know how bilas khan that be the prince of tale teller say to one who mock him in the great rest house on the jhelum road. go on my brother and finish that i have begin and he who mock take up the tale but have neither voice nor manner for the task come to a standstill and the pilgrim at supper make him eat abuse and stick half that night. 
nay but with our people money have pass it be their right. a we should turn against a shoeseller in regard to shoe if those wear out. if ever i make a book you shall see and judge. 
and the parrot say to the fall tree wait brother till i fetch a prop. say gobind with a grim chuckle. god ha give me eighty year and it may be some over. i cannot look for more than day grant by day and a a favour at this tide. be swift. 
in what manner be it best to set about the task. say i o chief of those who string pearl with their tongue. 
how do i know. yet he think for a little how should i not know. god ha make very many head but there be only one heart in all the world among your people or my people. they be child in the matter of tale. 
but none be so terrible a the little one if a man misplace a word or in a second tell vary event by so much a one small devil. 
ay i also have tell tale to the little one but do thou this his old eye fell on the gaudy painting of the wall the blue and red dome and the flame of the poinsettia beyond. tell them first of those thing that thou hast see and they have see together. thus their knowledge will piece out thy imperfection. tell them of what thou alone hast see then what thou hast hear and since they be child tell them of battle and king horse devil elephant and angel but omit not to tell them of love and suchlike. all the earth be full of tale to him who listen and doe not drive away the poor from his door. the poor be the best of tale teller. for they must lay their ear to the grind every night. 
after this conversation the idea grow in my head and gobind be press in his inquiry a to the health of the book. 
late when we have be part for month it happen that i be to go away and far off and i come to bid gobind good bye. 
it be farewell between u now for i go a very long journey i say. 
and i also. a long one than thou. but what of the book. say he. 
it will be bear in due season if it be so ordain. 
i would i could see it say the old man huddle beneath his quilt. but that will not be. i die three day hence in the night a little before the dawn. the term of my year be accomplish. 
in nine case out of ten a native make no miscalculation a to the day of his death. he ha the foreknowledge of the beast in this respect. 
then thou wilt depart in peace and it be good talk for thou hast say that life be no delight to thee. 
but it be a pity that our book be not bear. how shall i know that there be any record of my name. 
because i promise in the forepart of the book precede everything else that it shall be write gobind sadhu of the island in the river and await god in dhunni bhagat s chubara first speak of the book say i. 
and give counsel an old man s counsel. gobind son of gobind of the chumi village in the karaon tehsil in the district of mooltan. will that be write also. 
that will be write also. 
and the book will go across the black water to the house of your people and all the sahib will know of me who be eighty year old. 
all who read the book shall know. i cannot promise for the rest. 
that be good talk. call aloud to all who be in the monastery and i will tell them this thing. 
they troop up faquir sadhu sunnyasis byragis nihangs and mullah priest of all faith and every degree of raggedness and gobind lean upon his crutch speak so that they be visibly fill with envy and a white haired senior bid gobind think of his latter end instead of transitory repute in the mouth of stranger. then gobind give me his bless and i come away. 
these tale have be collect from all place and all sort of people from priest in the chubara from ala yar the carver jiwun singh the carpenter nameless men on steamer and train round the world woman spin outside their cottage in the twilight officer and gentleman now dead and bury and a few but these be the very best my father give me. the great part of them have be publish in magazine and newspaper to whose editor i be indebted. but some be new on this side of the water and some have not see the light before. 
the most remarkable story be of course those which do not appear for obvious reason. 
content. 
the lang men o larut. 
reingelder and the german flag. 
the wander jew. 
through the fire. 
the finance of the god. 
the amir s homily. 
jew in shushan. 
the limitation of pambe serang. 
little tobrah. 
bubble well road. 
the city of dreadful night. 
georgie porgie. 
naboth. 
the dream of duncan parrenness. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
on greenhow hill. 
the man who be. 
the head of the district. 
without benefit of clergy. 
at the end of the passage. 
the mutiny of the maverick. 
the mark of the beast. 
the return of imray. 
namgay doola. 
bertran and bimi. 
moti guj mutineer. 
the lang men o larut [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
the chief engineer s sleep suit be of yellow strip with blue and his speech be the speech of aberdeen. they sluice the deck under him and he hop on to the ornamental capstan a black pipe between his teeth though the hour be not seven of the morn. 
do you ever hear o the lang men o larut. he ask when the man from orizava have finish a story of an aboriginal giant discover in the wild of brazil. there be never story yet pass the lip of teller but the man from orizava could cap it. 
no we never do we respond with one voice. the man from orizava watch the chief keenly a a possible rival. 
i m not tell the story for the sake of talk merely say the chief but a a warn against bet unless you bet on a perrfect certainty. the lang men o larut be just a certainty. i have have talk wi them. now larut you will understand be a dependency or it may be an outlying possession o the island o penang and there they will get you tin and manganese an it mayhap mica and all manner o meenerals. larut be a great place. 
but what about the population. say the man from orizava. 
the population say the chief slowly be few but enorrmous. you must understand that exceptin the tin mine there be no special inducement to european to reside in larut. the climate be warm and remarkably like the climate o calcutta. and in regard to calcutta it cannot have escape your obsairvation that. 
calcutta isn t larut. and we ve only just come from it protest the man from orizava. there s a meteorological department in calcutta too. 
ay but there s no meteorological department in larut. each man be a law to himself. some drink whisky and some drink brandipanee and some drink cocktail vara bad for the coat o the stomach be a cocktail and some drink sangaree so i have be credibly inform. but one and all they sweat like the pack of piston head on a fourrteen day voyage with the screw race half her time. but a i be say the population o larut be five all tell of english that be to say scotch an i m scotch ye know say the chief. 
the man from orizava light another cigarette and wait patiently. it be hopeless to hurry the chief engineer. 
i be not pretend to account for the population o larut be lay down accord to such fabulous dimension. o the five white men engage upon the extraction o tin ore and mercantile pursuit there be three o the son o anak. wait while i remember. lammitter be the first by two inch a giant in the land an a terreefic man to cross in his way. from heel to head he be six foot nine inch and proportionately build across and through the thickness of his body. six good foot nine inch an overbearin man. next to him and i have forget his precise business be sandy vowle. and he be six foot seven but lean and lathy and it be more in the elasteecity of his neck that the height lay than in any honesty o bone and sinew. five foot and a few odd inch may have be his real height. the remainder come out when he hold up his head and six foot seven he be upon the door sill. i take his measure in chalk standin on a chair. and next to him but a proportionately make man ruddy and of a fair countenance be jock coan that they call the fir cone. he be but six foot five and a child beside lammitter and vowle. when the three walk out together they make a scunner run through the colony o larut. the malay run round them a though they have be the giant tree in the yosemite valley these three lang men o larut. it be perfectly ridiculous a lusus naturae that one little place should have contain maybe the three tall ordinar men upon the face o the earth. 
obsairve now the order o thing. for it lead to the fine big drink in larut and six sore head the morn that endure for a week. i be against immoderate liquor but the event to follow be a justification. you must understand that many coast steamer call at larut wi stranger o the mercantile profession. in the spring time when the young cocoanut be ripen and the tree o the forest be put forth their leaf there come an american man to larut and he be six foot three or it may have be four in his stocking. he come on business from sacramento but he stay for pleasure wi the lang men o larut. le than a half o the population be ordinar in their girth and stature ye will understand howson and nailor merchant five foot nine or thereabouts. he have business with those two and he stand above them from the six foot threedom o his height till they go to drink. in the course o conversation he say a tall men will thing about his height and the trouble of it to him. that be his pride o the flesh. 
a the long man in the island he say but there they take him up and ask if he be sure. 
i say i be the long man in the island he say and on that i ll bet my substance. 
they lay down the bed plate of a big drink then and there and put it aside while they call jock coan from his house near by among the firefly wink. 
how s a wi you. say jock and come in by the side o the sacramento profligate two inch or it may have be one tall than he. 
you re long say the man open his eye. but i be long. an they send a whistle through the night an howkit out sandy vowle from his bite bungalow and he come in an stand by the side o jock an the pair just fillit the room to the ceiling cloth. 
the sacramento man be a euchre player and a most profane sweerer. you hold both bower he say but the joker be with me. 
fair an softly say nailor. jock whaur s lang lammitter. 
here say that man put his leg through the window and come in like an anaconda o the desert furlong by furlong one foot in penang and one in batavia and a hand in north borneo it may be. 
be you suit. say nailor when the hind end o lang lammitter be slide through the sill an the head of lammitter be lose in the smoke away above. 
the american man take out his card and put it on the table. esdras b. long be my name america be my nation frisco be my rest place but this here beat creation say he. boy giant side show giant i mind to slide out of my bet if i have be overtop on the strength of the riddle on this paste board. i would have do it if you have top me even by three inch but when it come to foot yard mile i be not the man to shirk the big drink that ever make the traveller joy palm blush with virginal indignation or the orang outang and the perambulate dyak howl with envy. set them up and continue till the final conclusion. 
o mon i tell you twas an awful sight to see those four giant thresh about the house and the island and tearin down the pillar thereof an throw palm tree broadcast and currling their long leg round the hill o larut. an awfu sight. i be there. i do not mean to tell you but it s out now. i be not overcome for i e en sit me down under the piece o the table at four the morn an meditate upon the strangeness of thing. 
losh yon s the breakfast bell. 
reingelder and the german flag [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
han breitmann paddle across the deck in his pink pyjama a cup of tea in one hand and a cheroot in the other when the steamer be swelter down the coast on her way to singapur. he drink beer all day and all night and play a game call scairt with three compatriot. 
i haf wash say he in a voice of thunder but dere be no use wash on these hell sea. look at me i be still all wet and schweatin. it be d tea dot make me so. boy bring me bilsener on ice. 
you will die if you drink beer before breakfast say one man. beer be the bad thing in the world for. 
ya i know d liver. i haf no liver und i shall not die. at least i will not die obon dese benny sdeamers dot haf no beer fit to trink. if i should haf die i will haf don so a hoondert dime before now in shermany in new york in japon in assam und all over d inside ban of south amerique. also in shamaica should i hat die or in siam but i be here. und d be my orchits dot i have drafelled all the vorld round to find. 
he point towards the wheel where in two rough wooden box lay a mass of shrivel vegetation suppose by all the ship to represent assam orchid of fabulous value. 
now orchid do not grow in the main street of town and han breitmann have go far to get his. there be nothing that he have not collect that year from king crab to white kangaroo. 
lisden now say he after he have be speak for not much more than ten minute without a pause. lisden und i will dell you a sdory to show how bad und bad it be to go gollectin und belief vot anoder fool haf say. dis be in uraguay which be in amerique north or sout you would not know und i be hoontin orchits und aferydings else dot i could back in my kanasters dot be drafelling sbecimen gaces. dere va den mit me anoder man reingelder dot va his name und he va hoontin also but only coral snake joost uraguay coral snake aferykind you could imagine. i dell you a coral snake be a peauty all red und white like coral dot ha be gestrung in band upon d neck of a girl. dere be one snake howefer dot we who gollect know ash d sherman flag pecause id be red und plack und white joost like a sausage mit druffles. reingelder he be naturalist goot man goot trinker good a me. by gott say reingelder i will get a sherman flag snake or i will die. und we toorned all uraguay upside behint all pecause of dot sherman flag. 
von day when we be in none know where shwingin in our hummock among d wood oop come a natif woman mit a sherman flag in a bickle bottle my bickle bottle und we both fell from our hummock flat ubon our pot what you call stomach mit shoy at dis thing. now i be gollectin orchits also und i know dot d idee of life to reingelder va dis sherman flag. derefore i bicked myselfs oop und i say reingelder dot be your find. heart s true friend dou art a goot man say reingelder und mit dot he obens d bickle bottle und d natif woman she shqueals. herr gott. it will bite. i say pecause in uraguay a man must be careful of d insect reingelder shpifligate her in d alcohol und den she will be all right. nein say reingelder i will d shnake alife examine. dere be no fear. d coral shnakes be mitout shting apparatus brofided. boot i look at her het und she va d het of a boison shnake d true viper cranium narrow und contract. it be not goot say i she may bite und den we be tree hoondert mile from aferywheres. broduce d alcohol und bickle him alife. reingelder he have him in his hand grawlin und grawlin a slow a a woorm und dwice a guiet. nonsense say reingelder. yates haf say dot not von of d coral shnakes haf d sack of boison. yates va d crate authorite ubon d reptilia of sout amerique. he haf write a book. you do not know of course but he va a crate authorite. 
i gum my eye upon d sherman flag grawlin und grawlin in reingelder s fist und d het va not d het of innocence. mein gott i say. it be you dot will get d sack d sack from dis life here pelow. 
den you may haf d shnake say reingelder pattin it ubon her het. see now i will show you vat yates haf write. 
uud mit dot he go indo his dent unt brung out his big book of yates. d sherman flag grawlin in his fist. yates haf say say reingelder und he throw oben d book in d fork of his fist und read d passage proofin conglusivement dot nefer coral shnake bite va boison. den he shut d book mit a bang und dot shqueeze d sherman flag und she nip once und dwice. 
d liddle fool he haf bite me say reingelder. 
dese thing be before we know apout d permanganat potash injection. i be discomfordable. 
die oop d arm reingelder say i und trink whisky ontil you can no more trink. 
trink ten tousand tevils. i will go to dinner say reingelder und he put her afay und it va very red mit emotion. 
we lifed upon soup horse flesh und bean for dinner but before we va eat d soup reingelder he haf hold of his arm und cry it be genumben to d clavicle. i be a dead man. und yates he haf lie in brint. 
i dell you it va most sad for d symbtoms dot come va all dose of strychnine. he va double into big knot und den undoubled und den redouble mooch bad dan pefore und he froth. i va mit him say reingelder dost dou know me. but he himself d inward gonsciousness part be peyond knowledge und so i know he va not in bain. den he wrop himself oop in von dremendous knot und den he die all alone mit me in uraguay. i be sorry for i lofed reingelder und i puried him und den i take d coral shnake dot sherman flag so bad und dreacherous und i bickled him alife. 
so i get him. und so i lose reingelder. 
the wander jew [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
if you go once round the world in an easterly direction you gain one day say the men of science to john hay. in after year john hay go east west north and south transact business make love and beget a family a have do many men and the scientific information above record lay neglect in the deep of his mind with a thousand other matter of equal importance. 
when a rich relative die he find himself wealthy beyond any reasonable expectation that he have entertain in his previous career which have be a chequer and evil one. indeed long before the legacy come to him there exist in the brain of john hay a little cloud a momentary obscuration of think that come and go almost before he could realize that there be any solution of continuity. so do the bat flit round the eaves of a house to show that the darkness be fall. he enter upon great possession in money land and house. but behind his delight stand a ghost that cry out that his enjoyment of these thing should not be of long duration. it be the ghost of the rich relative who have be permit to return to earth to torture his nephew into the grave. wherefore under the spur of this constant reminder john hay always preserve the air of heavy business like stolidity that hide the shadow on his mind turn investment house and land into sovereign rich round red english sovereign each one worth twenty shilling. land may become valueless and house fly heavenward on the wing of red flame but till the day of judgment a sovereign will always be a sovereign that be to say a king of pleasure. 
possess of his sovereign john hay would fain have spend them one by one on such coarse amusement a his soul love. but he be haunt by the instant fear of death. for the ghost of his relative stand in the hall of his house close to the hat rack shout up the stairway that life be short that there be no hope of increase of day and that the undertaker be already rough out his nephew s coffin. john hay be generally alone in the house and even when he have company his friend could not hear the clamorous uncle. the shadow inside his brain grow large and black. his fear of death be drive john hay mad. 
then from the deep of his mind where he have stow away all his discard information rise to light the scientific fact of the easterly journey. on the next occasion that his uncle shout up the stairway urge him to make haste and live a shrill voice cry who go round the world once easterly gain one day. 
his grow diffidence and distrust of mankind make john hay unwilling to give this precious message of hope to his friend. they might take it up and analyse it. he be sure it be true but it would pain him acutely be rough hand to examine it too closely. to him alone of all the toil generation of mankind have the secret of immortality be vouchsafe. it would be impious against all the design of the creator to set mankind hurry eastward. besides this would crowd the steamer inconveniently and john hay wish of all thing to be alone. if he could get round the world in two month some one of whom he have read he could not remember the name have cover the passage in eighty day he would gain a clear day. and by steadily continue to do it for thirty year would gain one hundred and eighty day or nearly the half of a year. it would not be much but in course of time a civilisation advance and the euphrates valley railway be open he could improve the pace. 
arm with many sovereign john hay in the thirty fifth year of his age set forth on his travel two voice bear him company from dover a he sail to calais. fortune favour him. the euphrates valley railway be newly open and he be the first man who take ticket direct from calais to calcutta thirteen day in the train. thirteen day in the train be not good for the nerve. but he cover the world and return to calais from america in twelve day over the two month and start afresh with four and twenty hour of precious time to his credit. three year pass and john hay religiously go round this earth seek for more time wherein to enjoy the remainder of his sovereign. he become know on many line a the man who want to go on. when people ask him what he be and what he do he answer. 
i m the person who intend to live and i be try to do it now. 
his day be divide between watch the white wake spin behind the stern of the swift steamer or the brown earth flash past the window of the fast train. and he note in a pocket book every minute that he have rail or screw out of remorseless eternity. 
this be good than pray for long life quoth john hay a he turn his face eastward for his twentieth trip. the year have do more for him than he dare to hope. 
by the extension of the brahmaputra valley line to meet the newly develop china midland the calais railway ticket hold good via karachi and calcutta to hongkong. the round trip could be manage in a fraction over forty seven day and fill with fatal exultation john hay tell the secret of his longevity to his only friend the house keeper of his room in london. he speak and pass. but the woman be one of resource and immediately take counsel with the lawyer who have first inform john hay of his golden legacy. very many sovereign still remain and another hay long to spend them on thing more sensible than railway ticket and steamer accommodation. 
the chase be long for when a man be journey literally for the dear life he doe not tarry upon the road. round the world hay sweep anew and overtake the weary doctor who have be send out to look for him in madras. it be there that he find the reward of his toil and the assurance of a bless immortality. in half an hour the doctor watch always the parch lip the shake hand and the eye that turn eternally to the east win john hay to rest in a little house close to the madras surf. all that hay need do be to hang by rope from the roof of the room and let the round earth swing free beneath him. this be good than steamer or train for he gain a day in a day and be thus the equal of the undying sun. the other hay would pay his expense throughout eternity. 
it be true that we cannot yet take ticket from calais to hongkong though that will come about in fifteen year. but men say that if you wander along the southern coast of india you shall find in a neatly whitewash little bungalow sit in a chair swing from the roof over a sheet of thin steel which he know so well destroy the attraction of the earth an old and wear man who for ever face the rise sun a stop watch in his hand race against eternity. he cannot drink he doe not smoke and his live expense amount to perhaps twenty five rupee a month but he be john hay the immortal. without he hear the thunder of the wheel world with which he be careful to explain he ha no connection whatever. but if you say that it be only the noise of the surf he will cry bitterly for the shadow on his brain be pass away a the brain cease to work and he doubt sometimes whether the doctor speak the truth. 
why doe not the sun always remain over my head. ask john hay. 
through the fire [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
the policeman ride through the himalayan forest under the moss drape oak and his orderly trot after him. 
it s an ugly business bhere singh say the policeman. where be they. 
it be a very ugly business say bhere singh. and a for them they be doubtless now fry in a hot fire than be ever make of spruce branch. 
let u hope not say the policeman for allow for the difference between race and race it s the story of francesca da rimini bhere singh. 
bhere singh know nothing about francesca da rimini so he hold his peace until they come to the charcoal burner clear where the die flame say whit whit whit a they flutter and whisper over the white ash. it must have be a great fire when at full height. men have see it at donga pa across the valley wink and blaze through the night and say that the charcoal burner of kodru be get drink. but it be only suket singh sepoy of the load punjab native infantry and athira a woman burn burn burn. 
this be how thing befall. and the policeman s diary will bear me out. 
athira be the wife of madu who be a charcoal burner one eye and of a malignant disposition. a week after their marriage he beat athira with a heavy stick. a month late suket singh sepoy come that way to the cool hill on leave from his regiment and electrify the villager of kodru with tale of service and glory under the government and the honour in which he suket singh be hold by the colonel sahib bahadur. and desdemona listen to othello a desdemonas have do all the world over and a she listen she love. 
i ve a wife of my own say suket singh though that be no matter when you come to think of it. i be also due to return to my regiment after a time and i cannot be a deserter i who intend to be havildar. there be no himalayan version of i could not love thee dear a much love i not honour more. but suket singh come near to make one. 
never mind say athira stay with me and if madu try to beat me you beat him. 
very good say suket singh. and he beat madu severely to the delight of all the charcoal burner of kodru. 
that be enough say suket singh a he roll madu down the hillside. now we shall have peace. but madu crawl up the grass slope again and hover round his hut with angry eye. 
he ll kill me dead say athira to suket singh. you must take me away. 
there ll be a trouble in the line. my wife will pull out my beard. but never mind say suket singh i will take you. 
there be loud trouble in the line and suket singh s beard be pull and suket singh s wife go to live with her mother and take away the child. that s all right say athira. and suket singh say yes that s all right. 
so there be only madu leave in the hut that look across the valley to donga pa. and since the begin of time no one ha have any sympathy for husband so unfortunate a madu. 
he go to juseen daze the wizard man who keep the talk monkey s head. 
get me back my wife say madu. 
i can t say juseen daze until you have make the sutlej in the valley run up the donga pa. 
no riddle say madu and he shake his hatchet above juseen daze s white head. 
give all your money to the headman of the village say juseen daze. and they will hold a communal council and the council will send a message that your wife must come back. 
so madu give up all his worldly wealth amount to twenty seven rupee eight anna three pice and a silver chain to the council of kodru. and it fell a juseen daze foretell. 
they send athira s brother down into suket singh s regiment to call athira home. suket singh kick him once round the line and then hand him over to the havildar who beat him with a belt. 
come back yell athira s brother. 
where to. say athira. 
to madu say he. 
never say she. 
then juseen daze will send a curse and you will wither away like a bark tree in the springtime say athira s brother. athira sleep over these thing. 
next morning she have rheumatism. i be begin to wither away like a bark tree in the springtime she say. that be the curse of juseen daze. 
and she really begin to wither away because her heart be dry up with fear and those who believe in curse die from curse. suket singh too be afraid because he love athira good than his very life. two month pass and athira s brother stand outside the regimental line again and yelp aha. you be wither away. come back. 
i will come back say athira. 
say rather that we will come back say suket singh. 
ai. but when. say athira s brother. 
upon a day very early in the morning say suket singh. and he tramp off to apply to the colonel sahib bahadur for one week s leave. 
i be wither away like a bark tree in the spring moan athira. 
you will be good soon say suket singh. and he tell her what be in his heart and the two laugh together softly for they love each other. but athira grow good from that hour. 
they go away together travel third class by train a the regulation provide and then in a cart to the low hill and on foot to the high one. athira sniff the scent of the pine of her own hill the wet himalayan hill. it be good to be alive say athira. 
hah. say suket singh. where be the kodru road and where be the forest ranger s house. 
it cost forty rupee twelve year ago say the forest ranger hand the gun. 
here be twenty say suket singh and you must give me the best bullet. 
it be very good to be alive say athira wistfully sniff the scent of the pine mould. and they wait till the night have fall upon kodru and the donga pa. madu have stack the dry wood for the next day s charcoal burn on the spur above his house. it be courteous in madu to save u this trouble say suket singh a he stumble on the pile which be twelve foot square and four high. we must wait till the moon rise. 
when the moon rise athira kneel upon the pile. if it be only a government snide say suket singh ruefully squint down the wire bind barrel of the forest ranger s gun. 
be quick say athira. and suket singh be quick. but athira be quick no long. then he light the pile at the four corner and climb on to it re load the gun. 
the little flame begin to peer up between the big log atop of the brushwood. the government should teach u to pull the trigger with our toe say suket singh grimly to the moon. that be the last public observation of sepoy suket singh. 
upon a day early in the morning madu come to the pyre and shriek very grievously and run away to catch the policeman who be on tour in the district. 
the base bear ha ruin four rupee worth of charcoal wood madu gasp. he ha also kill my wife and he ha leave a letter which i cannot read tie to a pine bough. 
in the stiff formal hand teach in the regimental school sepoy suket singh have write. 
let u be burn together if anything remain over for we have make the necessary prayer. we have also curse madu and malak the brother of athira both evil men. send my service to the colonel sahib bahadur. 
the policeman look long and curiously at the marriage bed of red and white ash on which lay dull black the barrel of the ranger s gun. he drive his spur heel absently into a half char log and the chatter spark fly upwards. most extraordinary people say the policeman. 
whe w whew ouiou say the little flame. 
the policeman enter the dry bone of the case for the punjab government doe not approve of romance in his diary. 
but who will pay me those four rupee. say madu. 
the finance of the god [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
the even meal be end in dhunni bhagat s chubara and the old priest be smoke or count their bead. a little naked child patter in with it mouth wide open a handful of marigold flower in one hand and a lump of conserve tobacco in the other. it try to kneel and make obeisance to gobind but it be so fat that it fell forward on it shave head and roll on it side kick and gasp while the marigold tumble one way and the tobacco the other. gobind laugh set it up again and bless the marigold flower a he receive the tobacco. 
from my father say the child. he ha the fever and cannot come. wilt thou pray for him father. 
surely little. but the smoke be on the grind and the night chill be in the air and it be not good to go abroad naked in the autumn. 
i have no clothe say the child and all to day i have be carry cow dung cake to the bazar. it be very hot and i be very tire. it shiver a little for the twilight be cool. 
gobind lift an arm under his vast tattered quilt of many colour and make an invite little nest by his side. the child creep in and gobind fill his brass stud leather waterpipe with the new tobacco. when i come to the chubara the shave head with the tuft atop and the beady black eye look out of the fold of the quilt a a squirrel look out from his nest and gobind be smile while the child play with his beard. 
i would have say something friendly but remember in time that if the child fell ill afterwards i should be credit with the evil eye and that be a horrible possession. 
sit thou still thumbling i say a it make to get up and run away. where be thy slate and why ha the teacher let such an evil character loose on the street when there be no police to protect u weakling. in which ward dost thou try to break thy neck with fly kite from the house top. 
nay sahib nay say the child burrow it face into gobind s beard and twist uneasily. there be a holiday to day among the school and i do not always fly kite. i play k li kit like the rest. 
cricket be the national game among the schoolboy of the punjab from the naked hedge school child who use an old kerosene tin for wicket to the b. a. s of the university who compete for the championship belt. 
thou play kerlikit. thou art half the height of the bat. i say. 
the child nod resolutely. yea i do play. perlayball ow at. run run run. i know it all. 
but thou must not forget with all this to pray to the god accord to custom say gobind who do not altogether approve of cricket and western innovation. 
i do not forget say the child in a hush voice. 
also to give reverence to thy teacher and gobind s voice soften to abstain from pull holy men by the beard little badling. eh eh eh. 
the child s face be altogether hide in the great white beard and it begin to whimper till gobind soothe it a child be soothe all the world over with the promise of a story. 
i do not think to frighten thee senseless little one. look up. be i angry. be be be. shall i weep too and of our tear make a great pond and drown u both and then thy father will never get well lack thee to pull his beard. peace peace and i will tell thee of the god. thou hast hear many tale. 
very many father. 
now this be a new one which thou hast not hear. long and long ago when the god walk with men a they do to day but that we have not faith to see shiv the great of god and parbati his wife be walk in the garden of a temple. 
which temple. that in the nandgaon ward. say the child. 
nay very far away. maybe at trimbak or hurdwar whither thou must make pilgrimage when thou art a man. now there be sit in the garden under the jujube tree a mendicant that have worship shiv for forty year and he live on the offering of the pious and meditate holiness night and day. 
oh father be it thou. say the child look up with large eye. 
nay i have say it be long ago and moreover this mendicant be marry. 
do they put him on a horse with flower on his head and forbid him to go to sleep all night long. thus they do to me when they make my wed say the child who have be marry a few month before. 
and what didst thou do. say i. 
i weep and they call me evil name and then i smite her and we weep together. 
thus do not the mendicant say gobind. for he be a holy man and very poor. parbati perceive him sit naked by the temple step where all go up and down and she say to shiv what shall men think of the god when the god thus scorn their worshipper. for forty year yonder man ha pray to u and yet there be only a few grain of rice and some break cowry before him after all. men s heart will be harden by this thing. and shiv say it shall be look to and so he call to the temple which be the temple of his son ganesh of the elephant head say son there be a mendicant without who be very poor. what wilt thou do for him. then that great elephant head one awake in the dark and answer in three day if it be thy will he shall have one lakh of rupee. then shiv and parbati go away. 
but there be a money lender in the garden hide among the marigold the child look at the ball of crumple blossom in it hand ay among the yellow marigold and he hear the god talk. he be a covetous man and of a black heart and he desire that lakh of rupee for himself. so he go to the mendicant and say o brother how much do the pious give thee daily. the mendicant say i cannot tell. sometimes a little rice sometimes a little pulse and a few cowry and it ha be pickle mango and dry fish. 
that be good say the child smack it lip. 
then say the money lender because i have long watch thee and learn to love thee and thy patience i will give thee now five rupee for all thy earn of the three day to come. there be only a bond to sign on the matter. but the mendicant say thou art mad. in two month i do not receive the worth of five rupee and he tell the thing to his wife that even. she be a woman say when do money lender ever make a bad bargain. the wolf run through the corn for the sake of the fat deer. our fate be in the hand of the god. pledge it not even for three day. 
so the mendicant return to the money lender and would not sell. then that wicked man sit all day before him offer more and more for those three day earn. first ten fifty and a hundred rupee. and then for he do not know when the god would pour down their gift rupee by the thousand till he have offer half a lakh of rupee. upon this sum the mendicant s wife shift her counsel and the mendicant sign the bond and the money be pay in silver. great white bullock bring it by the cartload. but save only all that money the mendicant receive nothing from the god at all and the heart of the money lender be uneasy on account of expectation. therefore at noon of the third day the money lender go into the temple to spy upon the council of the god and to learn in what manner that gift might arrive. even a he be make his prayer a crack between the stone of the floor gap and close catch him by the heel. then he hear the god walk in the temple in the darkness of the column and shiv call to his son ganesh say son what hast thou do in regard to the lakh of rupee for the mendicant. and ganesh wake for the money lender hear the dry rustle of his trunk uncoil and he answer father one half of the money ha be pay and the debtor for the other half i hold here fast by the heel. 
the child bubble with laughter. and the moneylender pay the mendicant. it say. 
surely for he whom the god hold by the heel must pay to the uttermost. the money be pay at even all silver in great cart and thus ganesh do his work. 
nathu. ohe nathu. 
a woman be call in the dusk by the door of the courtyard. 
the child begin to wriggle. that be my mother it say. 
go then little answer gobind. but stay a moment. 
he rip a generous yard from his patchwork quilt put it over the child s shoulder and the child run away. 
the amir s homily [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
his royal highness abdur rahman amir of afghanistan g. c. s. i. and trust ally of her imperial majesty the queen of england and empress of india be a gentleman for whom all right think people should have a profound regard. like most other ruler he govern not a he would but a he can and the mantle of his authority cover the most turbulent race under the star. to the afghan neither life property law nor kingship be sacred when his own lust prompt him to rebel. he be a thief by instinct a murderer by heredity and train and frankly and bestially immoral by all three. none the le he ha his own crook notion of honour and his character be fascinate to study. on occasion he will fight without reason give till he be hack in piece. on other occasion he will refuse to show fight till he be drive into a corner. herein he be a unaccountable a the gray wolf who be his blood brother. 
and these men his highness rule by the only weapon that they understand the fear of death which among some oriental be the begin of wisdom. some say that the amir s authority reach no farther than a rifle bullet can range. but a none be quite certain when their king may be in their midst and a he alone hold every one of the thread of government his respect be increase among men. gholam hyder the commander in chief of the afghan army be fear reasonably for he can impale. all kabul city fear the governor of kabul who ha power of life and death through all the ward. but the amir of afghanistan though outlying tribe pretend otherwise when his back be turn be dread beyond chief and governor together. his word be red law. by the gust of his passion fall the leaf of man s life and his favour be terrible. he ha suffer many thing and be a hunt fugitive before he come to the throne and he understand all the class of his people. by the custom of the east any man or woman have a complaint to make or an enemy against whom to be avenge ha the right of speak face to face with the king at the daily public audience. this be personal government a it be in the day of harun al raschid of bless memory whose time exist still and will exist long after the english have pass away. 
the privilege of open speech be of course exercise at certain personal risk. the king may be please and raise the speaker to honour for that very bluntness of speech which three minute late bring a too imitative petitioner to the edge of the ever ready blade. and the people love to have it so for it be their right. 
it happen upon a day in kabul that the amir choose to do his day s work in the baber garden which lie a short distance from the city of kabul. a light table stand before him and round the table in the open air be group general and finance minister accord to their degree. the court and the long tail of feudal chief men of blood feed and cow by blood stand in an irregular semicircle round the table and the wind from the kabul orchard blow among them. all day long sweat courier dash in with letter from the outlying district with rumour of rebellion intrigue famine failure of payment or announcement of treasure on the road. and all day long the amir would read the docket and pas such of these a be le private to the official whom they directly concern or call up a wait chief for a word of explanation. it be well to speak clearly to the ruler of afghanistan. then the grim head under the black astrachan cap with the diamond star in front would nod gravely and that chief would return to his fellow. once that afternoon a woman clamour for divorce against her husband who be bald and the amir hear both side of the case bid her pour curd over the bare scalp and lick them off that the hair might grow again and she be content. here the court laugh and the woman withdraw curse her king under her breath. 
but when twilight be fall and the order of the court be a little relax there come before the king in custody a tremble haggard wretch sore with much buffet but of stout enough build who have steal three rupee of such small matter doe his highness take cognisance. 
why do you steal. say he. and when the king ask question they do themselves service who answer directly. 
i be poor and no one give. hungry and there be no food. 
why do you not work. 
i could find no work protector of the poor and i be starve. 
you lie. you steal for drink for lust for idleness for anything but hunger since any man who will may find work and daily bread. 
the prisoner drop his eye. he have attend the court before and he know the ring of the death tone. 
any man may get work. who know this so well a i do. for i too have be hunger not like you bastard scum but a any honest man may be by the turn of fate and the will of god. 
grow warm the amir turn to his noble all arow and thrust the hilt of his sabre aside with his elbow. 
you have hear this son of lie. hear me tell a true tale. i also be once starve and tighten my belt on the sharp belly pinch. nor be i alone for with me be another who do not fail me in my evil day when i be hunt before ever i come to this throne. and wander like a houseless dog by kandahar my money melt melt melt till he fling out a bare palm before the audience. and day upon day faint and sick i go back to that one who wait and god know how we live till on a day i take our best lihaf silk it be fine work of iran such a no needle now work warm and a coverlet for two and all that we have. i bring it to a money lender in a bylane and i ask for three rupee upon it. he say to me who be now the king you be a thief. this be worth three hundred. i be no thief i answer but a prince of good blood and i be hungry. prince of wander beggar say that money lender i have no money with me but go to my house with my clerk and he will give you two rupee eight anna for that be all i will lend. so i go with the clerk to the house and we talk on the way and he give me the money. we live on it till it be spend and we fare hard. and then that clerk say be a young man of a good heart surely the money lender will lend yet more on that lihaf and he offer me two rupee. these i refuse say nay. but get me some work. and he get me work and i even i abdur rahman amir of afghanistan work day by day a a coolie bear burden and labour of my hand receive four anna wage a day for my sweat and backache. but he this bastard son of naught must steal. for a year and four month i work and none dare say that i lie for i have a witness even that clerk who be now my friend. 
then there rise in his place among the sirdar and the noble one clothe in silk who fold his hand and say this be the truth of god for i who by the favour of god and the amir be such a you know be once clerk to that money lender. 
there be a pause and the amir cry hoarsely to the prisoner throw scorn upon him till he end with the dread dar arid which clinch justice. 
so they lead the thief away and the whole of him be see no more together. and the court rustle out of it silence whisper before god and the prophet but this be a man. 
jew in shushan [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
my newly purchase house furniture be at the least insecure. the leg part from the chair and the top from the table on the slight provocation. but such a it be it be to be pay for and ephraim agent and collector for the local auctioneer wait in the verandah with the receipt. he be announce by the mahomedan servant a ephraim yahudi ephraim the jew. he who belief in the brotherhood of man should hear my elahi bukhsh grind the second word through his white teeth with all the scorn he dare show before his master. ephraim be personally meek in manner so meek indeed that one could not understand how he have fall into the profession of bill collect. he resemble an over feed sheep and his voice suit his figure. there be a fix unvarying mask of childish wonder upon his face. if you pay him he be a one marvel at your wealth. if you send him away he seem puzzle at your hard heartedness. never be jew more unlike his dread breed. ephraim wear list slipper and coat of duster cloth so preposterously pattern that the most brazen of british subaltern would have shy from them in fear. very slow and deliberate be his speech and carefully guard to give offence to no one. after many week ephraim be induce to speak to me of his friend. 
there be eight of u in shushan and we be wait till there be ten. then we shall apply for a synagogue and get leave from calcutta. to day we have no synagogue. and i only i be priest and butch to our people. i be of the tribe of judah i think but i be not sure. my father be of the tribe of judah and we wish much to get our synagogue. i shall be a priest of that synagogue. 
shushan be a big city in the north of india count it dweller by the ten thousand. and these eight of the choose people be shut up in it midst wait till time or chance send them their full congregation. 
miriam the wife of ephraim two little child an orphan boy of their people epraim s uncle jackrael israel a white haired old man his wife hester a jew from cutch one hyem benjamin and ephraim priest and butch make up the list of the jew in shushan. they live in one house on the outskirt of the great city amid heap of saltpetre rotten brick herd of kine and a fix pillar of dust cause by the incessant pass of the beast to the river to drink. in the even the child of the city come to the waste place to fly their kite and ephraim s son hold aloof watch the sport from the roof but never descend to take part in them. at the back of the house stand a small brick enclosure in which ephraim prepare the daily meat for his people after the custom of the jew. once the rude door of the square be suddenly smash open by a struggle from inside and show the meek bill collector at his work nostril dilate lip draw back over his teeth and his hand upon a half madden sheep. he be attire in strange raiment have no relation whatever to duster coat or list slipper and a knife be in his mouth. a he struggle with the animal between the wall the breath come from him in thick sob and the nature of the man seem change. when the ordain slaughter be end he saw that the door be open and shut it hastily his hand leave a red mark on the timber while his child from the neighbour house top look down awe stricken and open eye. a glimpse of ephraim busy in one of his religious capacity be no thing to be desire twice. 
summer come upon shushan turn the tread waste grind to iron and bring sickness to the city. 
it will not touch u say ephraim confidently. before the winter we shall have our synagogue. my brother and his wife and child be come up from calcutta and then i shall be the priest of the synagogue. 
jackrael israel the old man would crawl out in the stifle evening to sit on the rubbish heap and watch the corps be bear down to the river. 
it will not come near u say jackrael israel feebly for we be the people of god and my nephew will be priest of our synagogue. let them die. he creep back to his house again and bar the door to shut himself off from the world of the gentile. 
but miriam the wife of ephraim look out of the window at the dead a the bier pass and say that she be afraid. ephraim comfort her with hope of the synagogue to be and collect bill a be his custom. 
in one night the two child die and be bury early in the morning by ephraim. the death never appear in the city return. the sorrow be my sorrow say ephraim. and this to him seem a sufficient reason for set at naught the sanitary regulation of a large flourish and remarkably well govern empire. 
the orphan boy dependent on the charity of ephraim and his wife could have felt no gratitude and must have be a ruffian. he beg for whatever money his protector would give him and with that flee down country for his life. a week after the death of her child miriam leave her bed at night and wander over the country to find them. she hear them cry behind every bush or drown in every pool of water in the field and she beg the cartmen on the grand trunk road not to steal her little one from her. in the morning the sun rise and beat upon her bare head and she turn into the cool wet crop to lie down and never come back. though hyem benjamin and ephraim seek her for two night. 
the look of patient wonder on ephraim s face deepen but he presently find an explanation. there be so few of u here and these people be so many say he that it may be our god ha forget u. 
in the house on the outskirt of the city old jackrael israel and hester grumble that there be no one to wait on them and that miriam have be untrue to her race. ephraim go out and collect bill and in the evening smoke with hyem benjamin till one dawn hyem benjamin die have first pay all his debt to ephraim. jackrael israel and hester sit alone in the empty house all day and when ephraim return weep the easy tear of age till they cry themselves asleep. 
a week late ephraim stagger under a huge bundle of clothe and cook pot lead the old man and woman to the railway station where the bustle and confusion make them whimper. 
we be go back to calcutta say ephraim to whose sleeve hester be cling. there be more of u there and here my house be empty. 
he help hester into the carriage and turn back say to me i should have be priest of the synagogue if there have be ten of u. surely we must have be forget by our god. 
the remnant of the break colony pass out of the station on their journey south. while a subaltern turn over the book on the bookstall be whistle to himself the ten little nigger boy. 
but the tune sound a solemn a the dead march. 
it be the dirge of the jew in shushan. 
the limitation of pambe serang [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
if you consider the circumstance of the case it be the only thing that he could do. but pambe serang ha be hang by the neck till he be dead and nurkeed be dead also. 
three year ago when the elsass lothringen steamer saarbruck be coal at aden and the weather be very hot indeed nurkeed the big fat zanzibar stoker who feed the second right furnace thirty foot down in the hold get leave to go ashore. he depart a seedee boy a they call the stoker. he return the full blood sultan of zanzibar his highness sayyid burgash with a bottle in each hand. then he sit on the fore hatch grate eat salt fish and onion and sing the song of a far country. the food belong to pambe the serang or head man of the lascar sailor. he have just cook it for himself turn to borrow some salt and when he come back nurkeed s dirty black finger be spade into the rice. 
a serang be a person of importance far above a stoker though the stoker draw good pay. he set the chorus of hya. hulla. hee ah. heh. when the captain s gig be pull up to the davit. he heave the lead too. and sometimes when all the ship be lazy he put on his white muslin and a big red sash and play with the passenger child on the quarter deck. then the passenger give him money and he save it all up for an orgie at bombay or calcutta or pulu penang. ho. you fat black barrel you re eat my food. say pambe in the other lingua franca that begin where the levant tongue stop and run from port say eastward till east be west and the seal brig of the kurile island gossip with the stray hakodate junk. 
son of eblis monkey face dry shark s liver pigman i be the sultan sayyid burgash and the commander of all this ship. take away your garbage. and nurkeed thrust the empty pewter rice plate into pambe s hand. 
pambe beat it into a basin over nurkeed s woolly head. nurkeed draw his sheath knife and stab pambe in the leg. pambe draw his sheath knife. but nurkeed drop down into the darkness of the hold and spat through the grate at pambe who be stain the clean fore deck with his blood. 
only the white moon saw these thing. for the officer be look after the coal and the passenger be toss in their close cabin. all right say pambe and go forward to tie up his leg we will settle the account late on. 
he be a malay bear in india. marry once in burma where his wife have a cigar shop on the shwe dagon road. once in singapore to a chinese girl. and once in madras to a mahomedan woman who sell fowl. the english sailor cannot owe to postal and telegraph facility marry a profusely a he use to do. but native sailor can be uninfluenced by the barbarous invention of the western savage. pambe be a good husband when he happen to remember the existence of a wife. but he be also a very good malay. and it be not wise to offend a malay because he doe not forget anything. moreover in pambe s case blood have be draw and food spoil. 
next morning nurkeed rise with a blank mind. he be no long sultan of zanzibar but a very hot stoker. so he go on deck and open his jacket to the morning breeze till a sheath knife come like a fly fish and stick into the woodwork of the cook s galley half an inch from his right armpit. he run down below before his time try to remember what he could have say to the owner of the weapon. at noon when all the ship s lascar be feed nurkeed advance into their midst and be a placid man with a large regard for his own skin he open negotiation say men of the ship last night i be drink and this morning i know that i behave unseemly to some one or another of you. who be that man that i may meet him face to face and say that i be drink. 
pambe measure the distance to nurkeed s naked breast. if he spring at him he might be trip up and a blind blow at the chest sometimes only mean a gash on the breast bone. rib be difficult to thrust between unless the subject be asleep. so he say nothing. nor do the other lascar. their face immediately drop all expression a be the custom of the oriental when there be kill on the carpet or any chance of trouble. nurkeed look long at the white eyeball. he be only an african and could not read character. a big sigh almost a groan break from him and he go back to the furnace. the lascar take up the conversation where he have interrupt it. they talk of the best method of cook rice. 
nurkeed suffer considerably from lack of fresh air during the run to bombay. he only come on deck to breathe when all the world be about. and even then a heavy block once drop from a derrick within a foot of his head and an apparently firm lash grate on which he set his foot begin to turn over with the intention of drop him on the case cargo fifteen foot below. and one insupportable night the sheath knife drop from the fo c s le and this time it draw blood. so nurkeed make complaint. and when the saarbruck reach bombay flee and bury himself among eight hundred thousand people and do not sign article till the ship have be a month go from the port. pambe wait too. but his bombay wife grow clamorous and he be force to sign in the spicheren to hongkong because he realise that all play and no work give jack a rag shirt. in the foggy china sea he think a great deal of nurkeed and when elsass lothringen steamer lay in port with the spicheren inquire after him and find he have go to england via the cape on the gravelotte. pambe come to england on the worth. the spicheren meet her by the nore light. nurkeed be go out with the spicheren to the calicut coast. 
want to find a friend my trap mouth coal scuttle. say a gentleman in the mercantile service. nothing easy. wait at the nyanza dock till he come. every one come to the nyanza dock. wait you poor heathen. the gentleman speak truth. there be three great door in the world where if you stand long enough you shall meet any one you wish. the head of the suez canal be one but there death come also. char cross station be the second for inland work. and the nyanza dock be the third. at each of these place be men and woman look eternally for those who will surely come. so pambe wait at the dock. time be no object to him. and the wife could wait a he do from day to day week to week and month to month by the blue diamond funnel the red dot smoke stack the yellow streak and the nameless dingy gypsy of the sea that load and unload jostle whistle and roar in the everlasting fog. when money fail a kind gentleman tell pambe to become a christian. and pambe become one with great speed get his religious teaching between ship and ship s arrival and six or seven shilling a week for distribute tract to mariner. what the faith be pambe do not in the least care. but he know if he say native ki li ti an sar to men with long black coat he might get a few copper. and the tract be vendible at a little public house that sell shag by the dottel which be even small weight than the half screw which be le than the half ounce and a most profitable retail trade. 
but after eight month pambe fell sick with pneumonia contract from long stand still in slush. and much against his will he be force to lie down in his two and sixpenny room rag against fate. 
the kind gentleman sit by his bedside and grieve to find that pambe talk in strange tongue instead of listen to good book and almost seem to become a benight heathen again till one day he be rouse from semi stupor by a voice in the street by the dock head. my friend he whisper pambe. call now call nurkeed. quick. god ha send him. 
he want one of his own race say the kind gentleman. and go out he call nurkeed. at the top of his voice. an excessively colour man in a rasp white shirt and brand new slop a shin hat and a breastpin turn round. many voyage have teach nurkeed how to spend his money and make him a citizen of the world. 
hi. yes. say he when the situation be explain. command him black nigger when i be in the saarbruck. ole pambe good ole pambe. dam lascar. show him up sar. and he follow into the room. one glance tell the stoker what the kind gentleman have overlook. pambe be desperately poor. nurkeed drive his hand deep into his pocket then advance with clench fist on the sick shout hya pambe. hya. hee ah. hulla. heh. takilo. takilo. make fast aft pambe. you know pambe. you know me. dekho jee. look. dam big fat lazy lascar. 
pambe beckon with his leave hand. his right be under his pillow. nurkeed remove his gorgeous hat and stoop over pambe till he could catch a faint whisper. how beautiful. say the kind gentleman. how these oriental love like child. 
spit him out say nurkeed lean over pambe yet more closely. 
touch the matter of that fish and onion say pambe and send the knife home under the edge of the rib bone upwards and forward. 
there be a thick sick cough and the body of the african slide slowly from the bed his clutch hand let fall a shower of silver piece that run across the room. 
now i can die. say pambe. 
but he do not die. he be nurse back to life with all the skill that money could buy for the law want him. and in the end he grow sufficiently healthy to be hang in due and proper form. 
pambe do not care particularly. but it be a sad blow to the kind gentleman. 
little tobrah [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
prisoner s head do not reach to the top of the dock a the english newspaper say. this case however be not report because nobody care by so much a a hempen rope for the life or death of little tobrah. the assessor in the red court house sit upon him all through the long hot afternoon and whenever they ask him a question he salaam and whine. their verdict be that the evidence be inconclusive and the judge concur. it be true that the dead body of little tobrah s sister have be find at the bottom of the well and little tobrah be the only human be within a half mile radius at the time. but the child might have fall in by accident. therefore little tobrah be acquit and tell to go where he please. this permission be not so generous a it sound for he have nowhere to go to nothing in particular to eat and nothing whatever to wear. 
he trot into the court compound and sit upon the well kerb wonder whether an unsuccessful dive into the black water below would end in a force voyage across the other black water. a groom put down an empty nose bag on the brick and little tobrah be hungry set himself to scrape out what wet grain the horse have overlook. 
o thief and but newly set free from the terror of the law. come along. say the groom and little tobrah be lead by the ear to a large and fat englishman who hear the tale of the theft. 
hah. say the englishman three time. only he say a strong word. put him into the net and take him home. so little tobrah be throw into the net of the cart and nothing doubt that he should be stick like a pig be drive to the englishman s house. hah. say the englishman a before. wet grain by jove. fee the little beggar some of you and we ll make a rid boy of him. see. wet grain good lord. 
give an account of yourself say the head of the groom to little tobrah after the meal have be eat and the servant lay at ease in their quarter behind the house. you be not of the groom caste unless it be for the stomach s sake. how come you into the court and why. answer little devil s spawn. 
there be not enough to eat say little tobrah calmly. this be a good place. 
talk straight talk say the head groom or i will make you clean out the stable of that large red stallion who bite like a camel. 
we be telis oil pressers say little tobrah scratch his toe in the dust. we be telis my father my mother my brother the elder by four year myself and the sister. 
she who be find dead in the well. say one who have hear something of the trial. 
even so say little tobrah gravely. she who be find dead in the well. it befel upon a time which be not in my memory that the sickness come to the village where our oil press stand and first my sister be smite a to her eye and go without sight for it be mata the smallpox. thereafter my father and my mother die of that same sickness so we be alone my brother who have twelve year i who have eight and the sister who could not see. yet be there the bullock and the oil press remain and we make shift to press the oil a before. but surjun das the grain seller cheat u in his dealing. and it be always a stubborn bullock to drive. we put marigold flower for the god upon the neck of the bullock and upon the great grind beam that rise through the roof. but we gain nothing thereby and surjun das be a hard man. 
bapri bap mutter the groom wife to cheat a child so. but we know what the bunnia folk be sister. 
the press be an old press and we be not strong men my brother and i. nor could we fix the neck of the beam firmly in the shackle. 
nay indeed say the gorgeously clothe wife of the head groom join the circle. that be a strong man s work. when i be a maid in my father s house. 
peace woman say the head groom. go on boy. 
it be nothing say little tobrah. the big beam tear down the roof upon a day which be not in my memory and with the roof fell much of the hind wall and both together upon our bullock whose back be break. thus we have neither home nor press nor bullock my brother myself and the sister who be blind. we go cry away from that place hand in hand across the field. and our money be seven anna and six pie. there be a famine in the land. i do not know the name of the land. so on a night when we be sleep my brother take the five anna that remain to u and run away. i do not know whither he go. the curse of my father be upon him. but i and the sister beg food in the village and there be none to give. only all men say go to the englishman and they will give. i do not know what the englishman be. but they say that they be white live in tent. i go forward. but i cannot say whither i go and there be no more food for myself or the sister. and upon a hot night she weep and call for food we come to a well and i bid her sit upon the kerb and thrust her in for in truth she could not see. and it be good to die than to starve. 
ai. ahi. wail the groom wife in chorus. he thrust her in for it be good to die than to starve. 
i would have throw myself in also but that she be not dead and call to me from the bottom of the well and i be afraid and run. and one come out of the crop say that i have kill her and defile the well and they take me before an englishman white and terrible live in a tent and me he send here. but there be no witness and it be good to die than to starve. she furthermore could not see with her eye and be but a little child. 
be but a little child echo the head groom s wife. but who art thou weak a a fowl and small a a day old colt what art thou. 
i who be empty be now full say little tobrah stretch himself upon the dust. and i would sleep. 
the groom s wife spread a cloth over him while little tobrah sleep the sleep of the just. 
bubble well road [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
look out on a large scale map the place where the chenab river fall into the indus fifteen mile or so above the hamlet of chachuran. five mile west of chachuran lie bubble well road and the house of the gosain or priest of arti goth. it be the priest who show me the road but it be no thank to him that i be able to tell this story. 
five mile west of chachuran be a patch of the plume jungle grass that turn over in silver when the wind blow from ten to twenty foot high and from three to four mile square. in the heart of the patch hide the gosain of bubble well road. the villager stone him when he peer into the daylight although he be a priest and he run back again a a stray wolf turn into tall crop. he be a one eye man and carry burn between his brow the impress of two copper coin. some say that he be torture by a native prince in the old day. for he be so old that he must have be capable of mischief in the day of runjit singh. his most press need at present be a halter and the care of the british government. 
these thing happen when the jungle grass be tall. and the villager of chachuran tell me that a sound of pig have go into the arti goth patch. to enter jungle grass be always an unwise proceed but i go partly because i know nothing of pig hunt and partly because the villager say that the big boar of the sound own foot long tush. therefore i wish to shoot him in order to produce the tush in after year and say that i have ride him down in fair chase. i take a gun and go into the hot close patch believe that it would be an easy thing to unearth one pig in ten square mile of jungle. mr. wardle the terrier go with me because he believe that i be incapable of exist for an hour without his advice and countenance. he manage to slip in and out between the grass clump but i have to force my way and in twenty minute be a completely lose a though i have be in the heart of central africa. i do not notice this at first till i have grow weary of stumble and push through the grass and mr. wardle be begin to sit down very often and hang out his tongue very far. there be nothing but grass everywhere and it be impossible to see two yard in any direction. the grass stem hold the heat exactly a boiler tube do. 
in half an hour when i be devoutly wish that i have leave the big boar alone i come to a narrow path which seem to be a compromise between a native foot path and a pig run. it be barely six inch wide but i could sidle along it in comfort. the grass be extremely thick here and where the path be ill define it be necessary to crush into the tussock either with both hand before the face or to back into it leave both hand free to manage the rifle. none the le it be a path and valuable because it might lead to a place. 
at the end of nearly fifty yard of fair way just when i be prepare to back into an unusually stiff tussock i miss mr. wardle who for his girth be an unusually frivolous dog and never keep to heel. i call him three time and say aloud where ha the little beast go to. then i step backwards several pace for almost under my foot a deep voice repeat where ha the little beast go. to appreciate an unseen voice thoroughly you should hear it when you be lose in stifle jungle grass. i call mr. wardle again and the underground echo assist me. at that i cease call and listen very attentively because i think i hear a man laugh in a peculiarly offensive manner. the heat make me sweat but the laughter make me shake. there be no earthly need for laughter in high grass. it be indecent a well a impolite. the chuckle stop and i take courage and continue to call till i think that i have locate the echo somewhere behind and below the tussock into which i be prepare to back just before i lose mr. wardle. i drive my rifle up to the trigger between the grass stem in a downward and forward direction. then i waggle it to and fro but it do not seem to touch grind on the far side of the tussock a it should have do. every time that i grunt with the exertion of drive a heavy rifle through thick grass the grunt be faithfully repeat from below and when i stop to wipe my face the sound of low laughter be distinct beyond doubt. 
i go into the tussock face first an inch at a time my mouth open and my eye fine full and prominent. when i have overcome the resistance of the grass i find that i be look straight across a black gap in the grind that i be actually lie on my chest lean over the mouth of a well so deep i could scarcely see the water in it. 
there be thing in the water black thing and the water be a black a pitch with blue scum atop. the laugh sound come from the noise of a little spring spout half way down one side of the well. sometimes a the black thing circle round the trickle from the spring fell upon their tightly stretch skin and then the laughter change into a sputter of mirth. one thing turn over on it back a i watch and drift round and round the circle of the mossy brickwork with a hand and half an arm hold clear of the water in a stiff and horrible flourish a though it be a very weary guide pay to exhibit the beauty of the place. 
i do not spend more than half an hour in creep round that well and find the path on the other side. the remainder of the journey i accomplish by feel every foot of grind in front of me and crawl like a snail through every tussock. i carry mr. wardle in my arm and he lick my nose. he be not frighten in the least nor be i but we wish to reach open grind in order to enjoy the view. my knee be loose and the apple in my throat refuse to slide up and down. the path on the far side of the well be a very good one though box in on all side by grass and it lead me in time to a priest s hut in the centre of a little clear. when that priest saw my very white face come through the grass he howl with terror and embrace my boot. but when i reach the bedstead set outside his door i sit down quickly and mr. wardle mount guard over me. i be not in a condition to take care of myself. 
when i awake i tell the priest to lead me into the open out of the arti goth patch and to walk slowly in front of me. mr. wardle hate native and the priest be more afraid of mr. wardle than of me though we be both angry. he walk very slowly down a narrow little path from his hut. that path cross three path such a the one i have come by in the first instance and every one of the three head towards the bubble well. once when we stop to draw breath i hear the well laugh to itself alone in the thick grass and only my need for his service prevent my fire both barrel into the priest s back. 
when we come to the open the priest crash back into cover and i go to the village of arti goth for a drink. it be pleasant to be able to see the horizon all round a well a the grind underfoot. 
the villager tell me that the patch of grass be full of devil and ghost all in the service of the priest and that men and woman and child have enter it and have never return. they say the priest use their liver for purpose of witchcraft. when i ask why they have not tell me of this at the outset they say that they be afraid they would lose their reward for bring news of the pig. 
before i leave i do my best to set the patch alight but the grass be too green. some fine summer day however if the wind be favourable a file of old newspaper and a box of match will make clear the mystery of bubble well road. 
the city of dreadful night [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
the dense wet heat that hang over the face of land like a blanket prevent all hope of sleep in the first instance. the cicala help the heat. and the yell jackal the cicala. it be impossible to sit still in the dark empty echo house and watch the punkah beat the dead air. so at ten o clock of the night i set my walk stick on end in the middle of the garden and wait to see how it would fall. it point directly down the moonlit road that lead to the city of dreadful night. the sound of it fall disturb a hare. she limp from her form and run across to a disused mahomedan burial grind where the jawless skull and rough butt shank bone heartlessly expose by the july rain glimmer like mother o pearl on the rain channel soil. the heat air and the heavy earth have drive the very dead upward for coolness sake. the hare limp on. snuff curiously at a fragment of a smoke stain lamp shard and die out in the shadow of a clump of tamarisk tree. 
the mat weaver s hut under the lee of the hindu temple be full of sleep men who lay like sheet corps. overhead blaze the unwinking eye of the moon. darkness give at least a false impression of coolness. it be hard not to believe that the flood of light from above be warm. not so hot a the sun but still sickly warm and heat the heavy air beyond what be our due. straight a a bar of polish steel run the road to the city of dreadful night. and on either side of the road lay corps dispose on bed in fantastic attitude one hundred and seventy body of men. some shroud all in white with bind up mouth. some naked and black a ebony in the strong light. and one that lay face upwards with drop jaw far away from the others silvery white and ashen gray. 
a leper asleep. and the remainder weary cooly servant small shopkeeper and driver from the hackstand hard by. the scene a main approach to lahore city and the night a warm one in august. this be all that there be to be see. but by no mean all that one could see. the witchery of the moonlight be everywhere. and the world be horribly change. the long line of the naked dead flank by the rigid silver statue be not pleasant to look upon. it be make up of men alone. be the womenkind then force to sleep in the shelter of the stifle mud hut a best they might. the fretful wail of a child from a low mud roof answer the question. where the child be the mother must be also to look after them. they need care on these swelter night. a black little bullet head peep over the cop and a thin a painfully thin brown leg be slide over on to the gutter pipe. there be a sharp clink of glass bracelet. a woman s arm show for an instant above the parapet twin itself round the lean little neck and the child be drag back protest to the shelter of the bedstead. his thin high pitch shriek die out in the thick air almost a soon a it be raise. for even the child of the soil find it too hot to weep. 
more corps. more stretch of moonlit white road a string of sleep camel at rest by the wayside. a vision of scud jackal. ekka pony asleep the harness still on their back and the brass stud country cart wink in the moonlight and again more corps. wherever a grain cart atilt a tree trunk a saw log a couple of bamboo and a few handful of thatch cast a shadow the grind be cover with them. they lie some face downwards arm fold in the dust. some with clasp hand fling up above their head. some curl up dog wise. some throw like limp gunny bag over the side of the grain cart. and some bow with their brow on their knee in the full glare of the moon. it would be a comfort if they be only give to snore. but they be not and the liken to corps be unbroken in all respect save one. the lean dog snuff at them and turn away. here and there a tiny child lie on his father s bedstead and a protect arm be throw round it in every instance. but for the most part the child sleep with their mother on the house top. yellow skin white toothed pariah be not to be trust within reach of brown body. 
a stifle hot blast from the mouth of the delhi gate nearly end my resolution of enter the city of dreadful night at this hour. it be a compound of all evil savour animal and vegetable that a wall city can brew in a day and a night. the temperature within the motionless grove of plantain and orange tree outside the city wall seem chilly by comparison. heaven help all sick person and young child within the city to night. the high house wall be still radiate heat savagely and from obscure side gully fetid breeze eddy that ought to poison a buffalo. but the buffalo do not heed. a drive of them be parade the vacant main street. stop now and then to lay their ponderous muzzle against the close shutter of a grain dealer s shop and to blow thereon like grampus. 
then silence follow the silence that be full of the night noise of a great city. a string instrument of some kind be just and only just audible. high overhead some one throw open a window and the rattle of the wood work echo down the empty street. on one of the roof a hookah be in full blast. and the men be talk softly a the pipe gutter. a little farther on the noise of conversation be more distinct. a slit of light show itself between the slide shutter of a shop. inside a stubble beard weary eye trader be balance his account book among the bale of cotton print that surround him. three sheet figure bear him company and throw in a remark from time to time. first he make an entry then a remark. then pass the back of his hand across his stream forehead. the heat in the build in street be fearful. inside the shop it must be almost unendurable. but the work go on steadily. entry guttural growl and uplift hand stroke succeed each other with the precision of clock work. 
a policeman turbanless and fast asleep lie across the road on the way to the mosque of wazir khan. a bar of moonlight fall across the forehead and eye of the sleeper but he never stir. it be close upon midnight and the heat seem to be increase. the open square in front of the mosque be crowd with corps. and a man must pick his way carefully for fear of tread on them. the moonlight stripe the mosque s high front of colour enamel work in broad diagonal band. and each separate dream pigeon in the niche and corner of the masonry throw a squab little shadow. sheet ghost rise up wearily from their pallet and flit into the dark depth of the build. be it possible to climb to the top of the great minars and thence to look down on the city. at all event the attempt be worth make and the chance be that the door of the staircase will be unlock. unlock it be. but a deeply sleep janitor lie across the threshold face turn to the moon. a rat dash out of his turban at the sound of approach footstep. the man grunt open his eye for a minute turn round and go to sleep again. all the heat of a decade of fierce indian summer be store in the pitch black polish wall of the corkscrew staircase. half way up there be something alive warm and feathery. and it snore. drive from step to step a it catch the sound of my advance it flutter to the top and reveal itself a a yellow eye angry kite. dozen of kite be asleep on this and the other minars and on the dome below. there be the shadow of a cool or at least a le sultry breeze at this height. and refresh thereby turn to look on the city of dreadful night. 
dore might have draw it. zola could describe it this spectacle of sleep thousand in the moonlight and in the shadow of the moon. the roof top be cram with men woman and child. and the air be full of undistinguishable noise. they be restless in the city of dreadful night. and small wonder. the marvel be that they can even breathe. if you gaze intently at the multitude you can see that they be almost a uneasy a a daylight crowd. but the tumult be subdue. everywhere in the strong light you can watch the sleeper turn to and fro. shift their bed and again resettle them. in the pit like court yard of the house there be the same movement. 
the pitiless moon show it all. show too the plain outside the city and here and there a hand s breadth of the ravee without the wall. show lastly a splash of glitter silver on a house top almost directly below the mosque minar. some poor soul ha rise to throw a jar of water over his fevered body. the tinkle of the fall water strike faintly on the ear. two or three other men in far off corner of the city of dreadful night follow his example and the water flash like heliographic signal. a small cloud pass over the face of the moon and the city and it inhabitant clear draw in black and white before fade into mass of black and deep black. still the unrestful noise continue the sigh of a great city overwhelm with the heat and of a people seek in vain for rest. it be only the low class woman who sleep on the house top. what must the torment be in the latticed zenanas where a few lamp be still twinkle. there be footfall in the court below. it be the muezzin faithful minister. but he ought to have be here an hour ago to tell the faithful that prayer be good than sleep the sleep that will not come to the city. 
the muezzin fumble for a moment with the door of one of the minars disappear awhile and a bull like roar a magnificent bass thunder tell that he ha reach the top of the minar. they must hear the cry to the bank of the shrink ravee itself. even across the courtyard it be almost overpower. the cloud drift by and show him outline in black against the sky hand lay upon his ear and broad chest heave with the play of his lung allah ho akbar. then a pause while another muezzin somewhere in the direction of the golden temple take up the call allah ho akbar. again and again. four time in all. and from the bedstead a dozen men have rise up already. i bear witness that there be no god but god. what a splendid cry it be the proclamation of the creed that bring men out of their bed by score at midnight. once again he thunder through the same phrase shake with the vehemence of his own voice. and then far and near the night air ring with mahomed be the prophet of god. it be a though he be fling his defiance to the far off horizon where the summer lightning play and leap like a bar sword. every muezzin in the city be in full cry and some men on the roof top be begin to kneel. a long pause precede the last cry la ilaha illallah and the silence close up on it a the ram on the head of a cotton bale. 
the muezzin stumble down the dark stairway grumble in his beard. he pass the arch of the entrance and disappear. then the stifle silence settle down over the city of dreadful night. the kite on the minar sleep again snore more loudly the hot breeze come up in puff and lazy eddy and the moon slide down towards the horizon. seat with both elbow on the parapet of the tower one can watch and wonder over that heat torture hive till the dawn. how do they live down there. what do they think of. when will they awake. more tinkle of sluice water pot. faint jar of wooden bedstead move into or out of the shadow. uncouth music of string instrument soften by distance into a plaintive wail and one low grumble of far off thunder. in the courtyard of the mosque the janitor who lay across the threshold of the minar when i come up start wildly in his sleep throw his hand above his head mutter something and fall back again. lull by the snore of the kite they snore like over gorge human i drop off into an uneasy doze conscious that three o clock ha strike and that there be a slight a very slight coolness in the atmosphere. the city be absolutely quiet now but for some vagrant dog s love song. nothing save dead heavy sleep. 
several week of darkness pas after this. for the moon ha go out. the very dog be still and i watch for the first light of the dawn before make my way homeward. again the noise of shuffle foot. the morning call be about to begin and my night watch be over. allah ho akbar. allah ho akbar. the east grow gray and presently saffron. the dawn wind come up a though the muezzin have summon it. and a one man the city of dreadful night rise from it bed and turn it face towards the dawn day. with return of life come return of sound. first a low whisper then a deep bass hum. for it must be remember that the entire city be on the house top. my eyelid weigh down with the arrears of long defer sleep i escape from the minar through the courtyard and out into the square beyond where the sleeper have rise stow away the bedstead and be discuss the morning hookah. the minute s freshness of the air ha go and it be a hot a at first. 
will the sahib out of his kindness make room. what be it. something bear on men s shoulder come by in the half light and i stand back. a woman s corpse go down to the burn ghat and a bystander say she die at midnight from the heat. so the city be of death a well a night after all. 
georgie porgie [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
georgie porgie pudding and pie kiss the girl and make them cry. when the girl come out to play georgie porgie run away. 
if you will admit that a man ha no right to enter his draw room early in the morning when the housemaid be set thing right and clear away the dust you will concede that civilise people who eat out of china and own card case have no right to apply their standard of right and wrong to an unsettle land. when the place be make fit for their reception by those men who be tell off to the work they can come up bring in their trunk their own society and the decalogue and all the other apparatus. where the queen s law doe not carry it be irrational to expect an observance of other and weak rule. the men who run ahead of the car of decency and propriety and make the jungle way straight cannot be judge in the same manner a the stay at home folk of the rank of the regular tchin. 
not many month ago the queen s law stop a few mile north of thayetmyo on the irrawaddy. there be no very strong public opinion up to that limit but it exist to keep men in order. when the government say that the queen s law must carry up to bhamo and the chinese border the order be give and some men whose desire be to be ever a little in advance of the rush of respectability flock forward with the troop. these be the men who could never pas examination and would have be too pronounce in their idea for the administration of bureau work province. the supreme government step in a soon a might be with code and regulation and all but reduce new burma to the dead indian level. but there be a short time during which strong men be necessary and plough a field for themselves. 
among the fore runner of civilisation be georgie porgie reckon by all who know him a strong man. he hold an appointment in low burma when the order come to break the frontier and his friend call him georgie porgie because of the singularly burmese like manner in which he sing a song whose first line be something like the word georgie porgie. most men who have be in burma will know the song. it mean. puff puff puff puff great steamboat. georgie sing it to his banjo and his friend shout with delight so that you could hear them far away in the teak forest. 
when he go to upper burma he have no special regard for god or man but he know how to make himself respect and to carry out the mix military civil duty that fell to most men s share in those month. he do his office work and entertain now and again the detachment of fever shake soldier who blunder through his part of the world in search of a fly party of dacoit. sometimes he turn out and dress down dacoit on his own account. for the country be still smoulder and would blaze when least expect. he enjoy these charivari but the dacoit be not so amuse. all the official who come in contact with him depart with the idea that georgie porgie be a valuable person well able to take care of himself and on that belief he be leave to his own device. 
at the end of a few month he weary of his solitude and cast about for company and refinement. the queen s law have hardly begin to be felt in the country and public opinion which be more powerful than the queen s law have yet to come. also there be a custom in the country which allow a white man to take to himself a wife of the daughter of heth upon due payment. the marriage be not quite so bind a be the nikkah ceremony among mahomedans but the wife be very pleasant. 
when all our troop be back from burma there will be a proverb in their mouth a thrifty a a burmese wife and pretty english lady will wonder what in the world it mean. 
the headman of the village next to georgie porgie s post have a fair daughter who have see georgie porgie and love him from afar. when news go abroad that the englishman with the heavy hand who live in the stockade be look for a housekeeper the headman come in and explain that for five hundred rupee down he would entrust his daughter to georgie porgie s keep to be maintain in all honour respect and comfort with pretty dress accord to the custom of the country. this thing be do and georgie porgie never repent it. 
he find his rough and tumble house put straight and make comfortable his hitherto unchecked expense cut down by one half and himself pet and make much of by his new acquisition who sit at the head of his table and sing song to him and order his madrassee servant about and be in every way a sweet and merry and honest and win a little woman a the most exact of bachelor could have desire. no race men say who know produce such good wife and head of household a the burmese. when the next detachment tramp by on the war path the subaltern in command find at georgie porgie s table a host to be deferential to a woman to be treat in every way a one occupy an assure position. when he gather his men together next dawn and replunged into the jungle he think regretfully of the nice little dinner and the pretty face and envy georgie porgie from the bottom of his heart. yet he be engage to a girl at home and that be how some men be construct. 
the burmese girl s name be not a pretty one. but a she be promptly christen georgina by georgie porgie the blemish do not matter. georgie porgie think well of the pet and the general comfort and vow that he have never spend five hundred rupee to a good end. 
after three month of domestic life a great idea strike him. matrimony english matrimony could not be such a bad thing after all. if he be so thoroughly comfortable at the back of beyond with this burmese girl who smoke cheroot how much more comfortable would he be with a sweet english maiden who would not smoke cheroot and would play upon a piano instead of a banjo. also he have a desire to return to his kind to hear a band once more and to feel how it felt to wear a dress suit again. decidedly matrimony would be a very good thing. he think the matter out at length of evening while georgina sing to him or ask him why he be so silent and whether she have do anything to offend him. a he think he smoke and a he smoke he look at georgina and in his fancy turn her into a fair thrifty amuse merry little english girl with hair come low down on her forehead and perhaps a cigarette between her lip. certainly not a big thick burma cheroot of the brand that georgina smoke. he would wed a girl with georgina s eye and most of her way. but not all. she could be improve upon. then he blow thick smoke wreath through his nostril and stretch himself. he would taste marriage. georgina have help him to save money and there be six month leave due to him. 
see here little woman he say we must put by more money for these next three month. i want it. that be a direct slur on georgina s housekeep. for she pride herself on her thrift. but since her god want money she would do her best. 
you want money. she say with a little laugh. i have money. look. she run to her own room and fetch out a small bag of rupee. of all that you give me i keep back some. see. one hundred and seven rupee. can you want more money than that. take it. it be my pleasure if you use it. she spread out the money on the table and push it towards him with her quick little pale yellow finger. 
georgie porgie never refer to economy in the household again. 
three month late after the dispatch and receipt of several mysterious letter which georgina could not understand and hat for that reason georgie porgie say that he be go away and she must return to her father s house and stay there. 
georgina weep. she would go with her god from the world s end to the world s end. why should she leave him. she love him. 
i be only go to rangoon say georgie porgie. i shall be back in a month but it be safe to stay with your father. i will leave you two hundred rupee. 
if you go for a month what need of two hundred. fifty be more than enough. there be some evil here. do not go or at least let me go with you. 
georgie porgie doe not like to remember that scene even at this date. in the end he get rid of georgina by a compromise of seventy five rupee. she would not take more. then he go by steamer and rail to rangoon. 
the mysterious letter have grant him six month leave. the actual flight and an idea that he might have be treacherous hurt severely at the time but a soon a the big steamer be well out into the blue thing be easy and georgina s face and the queer little stockade house and the memory of the rush of shout dacoit by night the cry and struggle of the first man that he have ever kill with his own hand and a hundred other more intimate thing fade and fade out of georgie porgie s heart and the vision of approach england take it place. the steamer be full of men on leave all rampantly jovial soul who have shake off the dust and sweat of upper burma and be a merry a schoolboy. they help georgie porgie to forget. 
then come england with it luxury and decency and comfort and georgie porgie walk in a pleasant dream upon pavement of which he have nearly forget the ring wonder why men in their sens ever leave town. he accept his keen delight in his furlough a the reward of his service. providence further arrange for him another and great delight all the pleasure of a quiet english woo quite different from the brazen business of the east when half the community stand back and bet on the result and the other half wonder what mr. so and so will say to it. 
it be a pleasant girl and a perfect summer and a big country house near petworth where there be acre and acre of purple heather and high grass water meadow to wander through. georgie porgie felt that he have at last find something worth the live for and naturally assume that the next thing to do be to ask the girl to share his life in india. she in her ignorance be will to go. on this occasion there be no barter with a village headman. there be a fine middle class wed in the country with a stout papa and a weep mamma and a best man in purple and fine linen and six snub nose girl from the sunday school to throw rose on the path between the tombstone up to the church door. the local paper describe the affair at great length even down to give the hymn in full. but that be because the direction be starve for want of material. 
then come a honeymoon at arundel and the mamma weep copiously before she allow her one daughter to sail away to india under the care of georgie porgie the bridegroom. beyond any question georgie porgie be immensely fond of his wife and she be devote to him a the best and great man in the world. when he report himself at bombay he felt justify in demand a good station for his wife s sake. and because he have make a little mark in burma and be begin to be appreciate they allow him nearly all that he ask for and post him to a station which we will call sutrain. it stand upon several hill and be style officially a sanitarium for the good reason that the drainage be utterly neglect. here georgie porgie settle down and find marry life come very naturally to him. he do not rave a do many bridegroom over the strangeness and delight of see his own true love sit down to breakfast with him every morning a though it be the most natural thing in the world. 
he have be there before a the american say and check the merit of his own present grace by those of georgina he be more and more incline to think that he have do well. 
but there be no peace or comfort across the bay of bengal under the teak tree where georgina live with her father wait for georgie porgie to return. the headman be old and remember the war of. he have be to rangoon and know something of the way of the kullahs. sit in front of his door in the evening he teach georgina a dry philosophy which do not console her in the least. 
the trouble be that she love georgie porgie just a much a the french girl in the english history book love the priest whose head be break by the king s bully. one day she disappear from the village with all the rupee that georgie porgie have give her and a very small smatter of english also gain from georgie porgie. 
the headman be angry at first but light a fresh cheroot and say something uncomplimentary about the sex in general. georgina have start on a search for georgie porgie who might be in rangoon or across the black water or dead for aught that she know. chance favour her. an old sikh policeman tell her that georgie porgie have cross the black water. she take a steerage passage from rangoon and go to calcutta. keep the secret of her search to herself. 
in india every trace of her be lose for six week and no one know what trouble of heart she must have undergo. 
she reappear four hundred mile north of calcutta steadily head northward very wear and haggard but very fix in her determination to find georgie porgie. she could not understand the language of the people. but india be infinitely charitable and the woman folk along the grand trunk give her food. something make her believe that georgie porgie be to be find at the end of that pitiless road. she may have see a sepoy who know him in burma but of this no one can be certain. at last she find a regiment on the line of march and meet there one of the many subaltern whom georgie porgie have invite to dinner in the far off old day of the dacoit hunt. there be a certain amount of amusement among the tent when georgina throw herself at the man s foot and begin to cry. there be no amusement when her story be tell. but a collection be make and that be more to the point. one of the subaltern know of georgie porgie s whereabouts but not of his marriage. so he tell georgina and she go her way joyfully to the north in a railway carriage where there be rest for tire foot and shade for a dusty little head. the march from the train through the hill into sutrain be try but georgina have money and family journey in bullock cart give her help. it be an almost miraculous journey and georgina felt sure that the good spirit of burma be look after her. the hill road to sutrain be a chilly stretch and georgina catch a bad cold. still there be georgie porgie at the end of all the trouble to take her up in his arm and pet her a he use to do in the old day when the stockade be shut for the night and he have approve of the even meal. georgina go forward a fast a she could. and her good spirit do her one last favour. 
an englishman stop her in the twilight just at the turn of the road into sutrain say good heaven. what be you do here. 
he be gillis the man who have be georgie porgie s assistant in upper burma and who occupy the next post to georgie porgie s in the jungle. georgie porgie have apply to have him to work with at sutrain because he like him. 
i have come say georgina simply. it be such a long way and i have be month in come. where be his house. 
gillis gasp. he have see enough of georgina in the old time to know that explanation would be useless. you cannot explain thing to the oriental. you must show. 
i ll take you there say gillis and he lead georgina off the road up the cliff by a little pathway to the back of a house set on a platform cut into the hillside. 
the lamp be just light but the curtain be not draw. now look say gillis stop in front of the draw room window. georgina look and saw georgie porgie and the bride. 
she put her hand up to her hair which have come out of it top knot and be straggle about her face. she try to set her rag dress in order but the dress be past pull straight and she cough a queer little cough for she really have take a very bad cold. gillis look too but while georgina only look at the bride once turn her eye always on georgie porgie gillis look at the bride all the time. 
what be you go to do. say gillis who hold georgina by the wrist in case of any unexpected rush into the lamplight. will you go in and tell that english woman that you live with her husband. 
no say georgina faintly. let me go. i be go away. i swear that i be go away. she twist herself free and run off into the dark. 
poor little beast. say gillis drop on to the main road. i d ha give her something to get back to burma with. what a narrow shave though. and that angel would never have forgive it. 
this seem to prove that the devotion of gillis be not entirely due to his affection for georgie porgie. 
the bride and the bridegroom come out into the verandah after dinner in order that the smoke of georgie porgie s cheroot might not hang in the new draw room curtain. 
what be that noise down there. say the bride. both listen. 
oh say georgie porgie i suppose some brute of a hillman ha be beat his wife. 
beat his wife. how ghastly. say the bride. fancy your beat me. she slip an arm round her husband s waist and lean her head against his shoulder look out across the cloud fill valley in deep content and security. 
but it be georgina cry all by herself down the hillside among the stone of the water course where the washerman wash the clothe. 
naboth [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
this be how it happen. and the truth be also an allegory of empire. 
i meet him at the corner of my garden an empty basket on his head and an unclean cloth round his loin. that be all the property to which naboth have the shadow of a claim when i first saw him. he open our acquaintance by beg. he be very thin and show nearly a many rib a his basket. and he tell me a long story about fever and a lawsuit and an iron cauldron that have be seize by the court in execution of a decree. i put my hand into my pocket to help naboth a king of the east have help alien adventurer to the loss of their kingdom. a rupee have hide in my waistcoat line. i never know it be there and give the trove to naboth a a direct gift from heaven. he reply that i be the only legitimate protector of the poor he have ever know. 
next morning he reappear a little fat in the round and curl himself into knot in the front verandah. he say i be his father and his mother and the direct descendant of all the god in his pantheon besides control the destiny of the universe. he himself be but a sweetmeat seller and much le important than the dirt under my foot. i have hear this sort of thing before so i ask him what he want. my rupee quoth naboth have raise him to the ever last heaven and he wish to prefer a request. he wish to establish a sweetmeat pitch near the house of his benefactor to gaze on my revere countenance a i go to and fro illumine the world. i be graciously please to give permission and he go away with his head between his knee. 
now at the far end of my garden the grind slope toward the public road and the slope be crown with a thick shrubbery. there be a short carriage road from the house to the mall which pass close to the shrubbery. next afternoon i saw that naboth have seat himself at the bottom of the slope down in the dust of the public road and in the full glare of the sun with a starve basket of greasy sweet in front of him. he have go into trade once more on the strength of my munificent donation and the grind be a paradise by my honour favour. remember there be only naboth his basket the sunshine and the gray dust when the sap of my empire first begin. 
next day he have move himself up the slope near to my shrubbery and wave a palm leaf fan to keep the fly off the sweet. so i judge that he must have do a fair trade. 
four day late i notice that he have back himself and his basket under the shadow of the shrubbery and have tie an isabella colour rag between two branch in order to make more shade. there be plenty of sweet in his basket. i think that trade must certainly be look up. 
seven week late the government take up a plot of grind for a chief court close to the end of my compound and employ nearly four hundred cooly on the foundation. naboth buy a blue and white strip blanket a brass lamp stand and a small boy to cope with the rush of trade which be tremendous. 
five day late he buy a huge fat red back account book and a glass inkstand. thus i saw that the cooly have be get into his debt and that commerce be increase on legitimate line of credit. also i saw that the one basket have grow into three and that naboth have back and hack into the shrubbery and make himself a nice little clear for the proper display of the basket the blanket the book and the boy. 
one week and five day late he have build a mud fire place in the clear and the fat account book be overflow. he say that god create few englishman of my kind and that i be the incarnation of all human virtue. he offer me some of his sweet a tribute and by accept these i acknowledge him a my feudatory under the skirt of my protection. 
three week late i notice that the boy be in the habit of cook naboth s mid day meal for him and naboth be begin to grow a stomach. he have hack away more of my shrubbery and own another and a fat account book. 
eleven week late naboth have eat his way nearly through that shrubbery and there be a reed hut with a bedstead outside it stand in the little glade that he have erode. two dog and a baby sleep on the bedstead. so i fancy naboth have take a wife. he say that he have by my favour do this thing and that i be several time fine than krishna. six week and two day late a mud wall have grow up at the back of the hut. there be fowl in front and it smelt a little. the municipal secretary say that a ce pool be form in the public road from the drainage of my compound and that i must take step to clear it away. i speak to naboth. he say i be lord paramount of his earthly concern and the garden be all my own property and send me some more sweet in a second hand duster. 
two month late a coolie bricklayer be kill in a scuffle that take place opposite naboth s vineyard. the inspector of police say it be a serious case. go into my servant quarter. insult my butler s wife and want to arrest my butler. the curious thing about the murder be that most of the cooly be drink at the time. naboth point out that my name be a strong shield between him and his enemy and he expect that another baby would be bear to him shortly. 
four month late the hut be all mud wall very solidly build and naboth have use most of my shrubbery for his five goat. a silver watch and an aluminium chain shine upon his very round stomach. my servant be alarmingly drink several time and use to waste the day with naboth when they get the chance. i speak to naboth. he say by my favour and the glory of my countenance he would make all his woman folk lady and that if any one hint that he be run an illicit still under the shadow of the tamarisk why i his suzerain be to prosecute. 
a week late he hire a man to make several dozen square yard of trellis work to put around the back of his hut that his woman folk might be screen from the public gaze. the man go away in the even and leave his day s work to pave the short cut from the public road to my house. i be drive home in the dusk and turn the corner by naboth s vineyard quickly. the next thing i know be that the horse of the phaeton be stamp and plunge in the strong sort of bamboo net work. both beast come down. one rise with nothing more than chip knee. the other be so badly kick that i be force to shoot him. 
naboth be go now and his hut be plough into it native mud with sweetmeat instead of salt for a sign that the place be accurse. i have build a summer house to overlook the end of the garden and it be a a fort on my frontier whence i guard my empire. 
i know exactly how ahab felt. he ha be shamefully misrepresent in the scripture. 
the dream of duncan parrenness [footnote. copyright by macmillan & co. ]. 
like mr. bunyan of old i duncan parrenness writer to the most honourable the east india company in this god forget city of calcutta have dream a dream and never since that kitty my mare fell lame have i be so trouble. therefore l i should forget my dream i have make shift to set it down here. though heaven know how unhandy the pen be to me who be always ready with sword than ink horn when i leave london two long year since. 
when the governor general s great dance. that he give yearly at the latter end of november. be finisht i have go to mine own room which look over that sullen un english stream the hoogly scarce so sober a i might have be. now roar drink in the west be but fuddle in the east and i be drink nor nor easterly a mr. shakespeare might have say. yet in spite of my liquor the cool night wind. though i have hear that they breed chill and flux innumerable. sober me somewhat. and i remember that i have be but a little wring and waste by all the sickness of the past four month whereas those young blood that come eastward with me in the same ship have be all a month back plant to eternity in the foul soil north of writer building. so then i thank god mistily. though to my shame i never kneel down to do so. for license to live at least till march should be upon u again. 
indeed we that be alive. and our number be le by far than those who have go to their last account in the hot weather late past. have make very merry that even by the rampart of the fort over this kindness of providence. though our jest be neither witty nor such a i should have like my mother to hear. 
when i have lie down. or rather throw me on my bed. and the fume of my drink have a little clear away i find that i could get no sleep for think of a thousand thing that be good leave alone. first and it be a long time since i have think of her the sweet face of kitty somerset drift a it might have be draw in a picture across the foot of my bed so plainly that i almost think she have be present in the body. then i remember how she drive me to this accurse country to get rich that i might the more quickly marry her our parent on both side give their consent. and then how she think good. or bad may be. of her troth and wed tom sanderson but a short three month after i have sail. from kitty i fell a muse on mr. vansuythen a tall pale woman with violet eye that have come to calcutta from the dutch factory at chinsura and have set all our young men and not a few of the factor by the ear. some of our lady it be true say that she have never a husband or marriage line at all. but woman and specially those who have lead only indifferent good life themselves be cruel hard one on another. besides mr. vansuythen be far pretty than them all. she have be most gracious to me at the governor general s rout and indeed i be look upon by all a her preux chevalier which be french for a much bad word. now whether i care so much a the scratch of a pin for this same mr. vansuythen. albeit i have vow eternal love three day after we meet. i know not then nor do till late on. but mine own pride and a skill in the small sword that no man in calcutta could equal keep me in her affection. so that i believe i worshipt her. 
when i have dismist her violet eye from my thought my reason reproacht me for ever have follow her at all. and i saw how the one year that i have live in this land have so burn and sear my mind with the flame of a thousand bad passion and desire that i have age ten month for each one in the devil s school. whereat i think of my mother for a while and be very penitent. make in my sinful tipsy mood a thousand vow of reformation all since break i fear me again and again. to morrow say i to myself i will live cleanly for ever. and i smile dizzily. the liquor be still strong in me. to think of the danger i have escape. and build all manner of fine castle in spain whereof a shadowy kitty somerset that have the violet eye and the sweet slow speech of mr. vansuythen be always queen. 
lastly a very fine and magnificent courage. that doubtless have it birth in mr. hastings madeira. grow upon me till it seem that i could become governor general nawab prince ay even the great mogul himself by the mere wish of it. wherefore take my first step random and unstable enough towards my new kingdom i kickt my servant sleep without till they howl and run from me and call heaven and earth to witness that i duncan parrenness be a writer in the service of the company and afraid of no man. then see that neither the moon nor the great bear be mind to accept my challenge i lay down again and must have fall asleep. 
i be wake presently by my last word repeat two or three time and i saw that there have come into the room a drunken man a i think from mr. hastings rout. he sate down at the foot of my bed in all the world a it belong to him and i take note a well a i could that his face be somewhat like mine own grow old save when it change to the face of the governor general or my father dead these six month. but this seem to me only natural and the due result of too much wine. and i be so anger at his entry all unannounced that i tell him not over civilly to go. to all my word he make no answer whatever only say slowly a though it be some sweet morsel. writer in the company s service and afraid of no man. then he stop short and turn round sharp upon me say that one of my kidney need fear neither man nor devil. that i be a brave young man and like enough should i live so long to be governor general. but for all these thing. and i suppose that he mean thereby the change and chance of our shifty life in these part. i must pay my price. by this time i have sober somewhat and be well wake out of my first sleep be dispose to look upon the matter a a tipsy man s jest. so say i merrily. and what price shall i pay for this palace of mine which be but twelve foot square and my five poor pagoda a month. the devil take you and your jest. i have pay my price twice over in sickness. at that moment my man turn full towards me. so that by the moonlight i could see every line and wrinkle of his face. then my drunken mirth die out of me a i have see the water of our great river die away in one night. and i duncan parrenness who be afraid of no man be take with a more deadly terror than i hold it ha ever be the lot of mortal man to know. for i saw that his face be my very own but mark and line and scar with the furrow of disease and much evil live a i once when i be. lord help me. very drink indeed have see mine own face all white and draw and grow old in a mirror. i take it that any man would have be even more greatly fear than i. for i be in no way want in courage. 
after i have lie still for a little sweat in my agony and wait until i should awake from this terrible dream. for dream i know it to be. he say again that i must pay my price and a little after a though it be to be give in pagoda and sicca rupee. what price will you pay. say i very softly. for god s sake let me be whoever you be and i will mend my way from to night. say he laugh a little at my word but otherwise make no motion of have hear them. nay i would only rid so brave a young ruffler a yourself of much that will be a great hindrance to you on your way through life in the indie. for believe me and here he look full on me once more there be no return. at all this rigmarole which i could not then understand i be a good deal put aback and wait for what should come next. say he very calmly give me your trust in man. at that i saw how heavy would be my price for i never doubt but that he could take from me all that he ask and my head be through terror and wakefulness altogether clear of the wine i have drink. so i take him up very short cry that i be not so wholly bad a he would make believe and that i trust my fellow to the full a much a they be worthy of it. it be none of my fault say i if one half of them be liar and the other half deserve to be burn in the hand and i would once more ask him to have do with his question. then i stop a little afraid it be true to have let my tongue so run away with me but he take no notice of this and only lay his hand lightly on my leave breast and i felt very cold there for a while. then he say laugh more. give me your faith in woman. at that i start in my bed a though i have be sting for i think of my sweet mother in england and for a while fancy that my faith in god s best creature could neither be shake nor steal from me. but late myself s hard eye be upon me i fell to think for the second time that night of kitty. she that jilt me and marry tom sanderson. and of mistress vansuythen whom only my devilish pride make me follow and how she be even bad than kitty and i bad of them all see that with my life s work to be do i must need go dance down the devil s sweep and garnish causeway because forsooth there be a light woman s smile at the end of it. and i think that all woman in the world be either like kitty or mistress vansuythen. a indeed they have ever since be to me. and this put me to such an extremity of rage and sorrow that i be beyond word glad when myself s hand fell again on my leave breast and i be no more trouble by these folly. 
after this he be silent for a little and i make sure that he must go or i awake ere long. but presently he speak again. and very softly. that i be a fool to care for such folly a those he have take from me and that ere he go he would only ask me for a few other trifle such a no man or for matter of that boy either would keep about him in this country. and so it happen that he take from out of my very heart a it be look all the time into my face with my own eye a much a remain to me of my boy s soul and conscience. this be to me a far more terrible loss than the two that i have suffer before. for though lord help me i have travel far enough from all path of decent or godly live yet there be in me though i myself write it a certain goodness of heart which when i be sober. or sick. make me very sorry of all that i have do before the fit come on me. and this i lose wholly. have in place thereof another deadly coldness at the heart. i be not a i have before say ready with my pen so i fear that what i have just write may not be readily understand. yet there be certain time in a young man s life when through great sorrow or sin all the boy in him be burn and sear away so that he pass at one step to the more sorrowful state of manhood. a our star indian day change into night with never so much a the gray of twilight to temper the two extreme. this shall perhaps make my state more clear if it be remember that my torment be ten time a great a come in the natural course of nature to any man. at that time i dare not think of the change that have come over me and all in one night. though i have often think of it since. i have pay the price say i my teeth chatter for i be deadly cold and what be my return. at this time it be nearly dawn and myself have begin to grow pale and thin against the white light in the east a my mother use to tell me be the custom of ghost and devil and the like. he make a if he would go but my word stopt him and he laugh a i remember that i laugh when i run angus macalister through the sword arm last august because he say that mr. vansuythen be no good than she should be. what return. say he catch up my last word why strength to live a long a god or the devil plea and so long a you live my young master my gift. with that he put something into my hand though it be still too dark to see what it be and when next i lookt up he be go. 
when the light come i make shift to behold his gift and saw that it be a little piece of dry bread. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
wohl auf my bully cavalier we ride to church to day the man that hasn t get a horse must steal one straight away. 
be reverent men remember this be a gottes haus. du conrad cut along d aisle and schenck d whiskey au. han breitmann s ride to church. 
once upon a time very far from england there live three men who love each other so greatly that neither man nor woman could come between them. they be in no sense refine nor to be admit to the out door mat of decent folk because they happen to be private soldier in her majesty s army. and private soldier of our service have small time for self culture. their duty be to keep themselves and their accoutrement specklessly clean to refrain from get drink more often than be necessary to obey their superior and to pray for a war. all these thing my friend accomplish. and of their own motion throw in some fight work for which the army regulation do not call. their fate send them to serve in india which be not a golden country though poet have sing otherwise. there men die with great swiftness and those who live suffer many and curious thing. i do not think that my friend concern themselves much with the social or political aspect of the east. they attend a not unimportant war on the northern frontier another one on our western boundary and a third in upper burma. then their regiment sit still to recruit and the boundless monotony of cantonment life be their portion. they be drill morning and even on the same dusty parade grind. they wander up and down the same stretch of dusty white road attend the same church and the same grog shop and sleep in the same lime wash barn of a barrack for two long year. there be mulvaney the father in the craft who have serve with various regiment from bermuda to halifax old in war scar reckless resourceful and in his pious hour an unequalled soldier. to him turn for help and comfort six and a half foot of slow move heavy foot yorkshireman bear on the wold breed in the dale and educate chiefly among the carrier cart at the back of york railway station. his name be learoyd and his chief virtue an unmitigated patience which help him to win fight. how ortheris a fox terrier of a cockney ever come to be one of the trio be a mystery which even to day i cannot explain. there be always three av u mulvaney use to say. an by the grace av god so long a our service last three av u they ll always be. ti betther so. 
they desire no companionship beyond their own and it be evil for any man of the regiment who attempt dispute with them. physical argument be out of the question a regard mulvaney and the yorkshireman. and assault on ortheris mean a combine attack from these twain a business which no five men be anxious to have on their hand. therefore they flourish share their drink their tobacco and their money. good luck and evil. battle and the chance of death. life and the chance of happiness from calicut in southern to peshawur in northern india. 
through no merit of my own it be my good fortune to be in a measure admit to their friendship frankly by mulvaney from the begin sullenly and with reluctance by learoyd and suspiciously by ortheris who hold to it that no man not in the army could fraternise with a red coat. like to like say he. i m a bloomin sodger he s a bloomin civilian. tain t natural that s all. 
but that be not all. they thaw progressively and in the thaw tell me more of their life and adventure than i be ever likely to write. 
omit all else this tale begin with the lamentable thirst that be at the begin of first cause. never be such a thirst mulvaney tell me so. they kick against their compulsory virtue but the attempt be only successful in the case of ortheris. he whose talent be many go forth into the highway and steal a dog from a civilian videlicet some one he know not who not in the army. now that civilian be but newly connect by marriage with the colonel of the regiment and outcry be make from quarter least anticipate by ortheris and in the end he be force l a bad thing should happen to dispose at ridiculously unremunerative rate of a promise a small terrier a ever grace one end of a lead string. the purchase money be barely sufficient for one small outbreak which lead him to the guard room. he escape however with nothing bad than a severe reprimand and a few hour of punishment drill. not for nothing have he acquire the reputation of be the best soldier of his inch in the regiment. mulvaney have teach personal cleanliness and efficiency a the first article of his companion creed. a dhirty man he be use to say in the speech of his kind go to clink for a weakness in the knee an be coort martialled for a pair av sock missin. but a clane man such a be an ornament to his service a man whose button be gold whose coat be wax upon him an whose coutrements be widout a speck that man may spakin in reason do fwhat he like an dhrink from day to divil. that s the pride av bein dacint. 
we sit together upon a day in the shade of a ravine far from the barrack where a watercourse use to run in rainy weather. behind u be the scrub jungle in which jackal peacock the gray wolf of the north western province and occasionally a tiger estrayed from central india be suppose to dwell. in front lay the cantonment glare white under a glare sun. and on either side run the broad road that lead to delhi. 
it be the scrub that suggest to my mind the wisdom of mulvaney take a day s leave and go upon a shoot tour. the peacock be a holy bird throughout india and he who slay one be in danger of be mob by the near villager. but on the last occasion that mulvaney have go forth he have contrive without in the least offend local religious susceptibility to return with six beautiful peacock skin which he sell to profit. it seem just possible then. 
but fwhat manner av use be ut to me goin out widout a dhrink. the grind s powdher dhry underfoot an ut get unto the throat fit to kill wail mulvaney look at me reproachfully. an a peacock be not a bird you can catch the tail av onless ye run. can a man run on wather an jungle wather too. 
ortheris have consider the question in all it bearing. he speak chew his pipe stem meditatively the while. 
go forth return in glory to clusium s royal ome. an round these bloomin temple ang the bloomin shield o rome. 
you good go. you ain t like to shoot yourself not while there s a chanst of liquor. me an learoyd ll stay at ome an keep shop case o anythin turnin up. but you go out with a gas pipe gun an ketch the little peacock or somethin. you kin get one day s leave easy a winkin. go along an get it an get peacock or somethin. 
jock say mulvaney turn to learoyd who be half asleep under the shadow of the bank. he rouse slowly. 
sitha mulvaaney go say he. 
and mulvaney go. curse his ally with irish fluency and barrack room point. 
take note say he when he have win his holiday and appear dress in his rough clothe with the only other regimental fowl piece in his hand. take note jock an you orth ri i be goin in the face av my own will all for to please you. i misdoubt anythin will come av permiscuous huntin afther peacock in a desolit lan. an i know that i will lie down an die wid thirrrst. me catch peacock for you ye lazy scutts an be sacrifice by the peasanthry ugh. 
he wave a huge paw and go away. 
at twilight long before the appoint hour he return empty hand much begrime with dirt. 
peacock. query ortheris from the safe rest of a barrack room table whereon he be smoke cross legged learoyd fast asleep on a bench. 
jock say mulvaney without answer a he stir up the sleeper. jock can ye fight. will ye fight. 
very slowly the mean of the word communicate itself to the half rouse man. he understand and again what might these thing mean. mulvaney be shake him savagely. meantime the men in the room howl with delight. there be war in the confederacy at last war and the break of bond. 
barrack room etiquette be stringent. on the direct challenge must follow the direct reply. this be more bind than the tie of try friendship. once again mulvaney repeat the question. learoyd answer by the only mean in his power and so swiftly that the irishman have barely time to avoid the blow. the laughter around increase. learoyd look bewilderedly at his friend himself a greatly bewilder. ortheris drop from the table because his world be fall. 
come outside say mulvaney and a the occupant of the barrack room prepare joyously to follow he turn and say furiously there will be no fight this night onless any wan av you be wishful to assist. the man that doe follow on. 
no man move. the three pass out into the moonlight learoyd fumble with the button of his coat. the parade grind be desert except for the scurry jackal. mulvaney s impetuous rush carry his companion far into the open ere learoyd attempt to turn round and continue the discussion. 
be still now. twas my fault for beginnin thing in the middle av an end jock. i should ha comminst wid an explanation. but jock dear on your sowl be ye fit think you for the fine fight that iv be betther than fightin me. considher before ye answer. 
more than ever puzzle learoyd turn round two or three time felt an arm kick tentatively and answer ah m fit. he be accustom to fight blindly at the bid of the superior mind. 
they sit them down the men look on from afar and mulvaney untangle himself in mighty word. 
followin your fool scheme i wint out into the thrackless desert beyond the barricks. an there i meet a pious hindu dhriving a bullock kyart. i tuk ut for grant he wud be delight for to convoy me a piece an i jump in. 
you long lazy black haired swine drawl ortheris who would have do the same thing under similar circumstance. 
twas the height av policy. that naygur man dhruv mile an mile a far a the new railway line they re buildin now back av the tavi river. ti a kyart for dhirt only say he now an again timoreously to get me out av ut. dhirt i be sez i an the dhryest that you iv kyarted. dhrive on me son an glory be wid you. at that i wint to slape an take no heed till he pull up on the embankmint av the line where the cooly be pilin mud. there be a matther av two thousand cooly on that line you remimber that. prisintly a bell ring an they throops off to a big pay shed. where s the white man in charge. sez i to my kyart dhriver. in the shed sez he engage on a riffle. a fwhat. sez i. riffle sez he. you take ticket. he take money. you get nothin. 
oho. sez i that s fwhat the shuperior an cultivate man call a raffle me misbeguided child av darkness an sin. lead on to that raffle though fwhat the mischief ti doin so far away from ut home which be the charity bazaar at christmas an the colonel s wife grinnin behind the tea table be more than i know. wid that i wint to the shed an find twas pay day among the cooly. their wage be on a table forninst a big fine red buck av a man sivun fut high four fut wide an three fut thick wid a fist on him like a corn sack. he be payin the cooly fair an easy but he wud ask each man if he wud raffle that month an each man sez. yes av course. thin he wud deduct from their wage accordin. whin all be pay he fill an ould cigar box full av gun wad an scatthered ut among the cooly. they do not take much joy av that performince an small wondher. a man close to me pick up a black gun wad an sing out i have ut. good may ut do you sez i. the coolie wint forward to this big fine red man who throw a cloth off av the most sumpshus jooled enamel an variously bedivilled sedan chair i iv saw. 
sedan chair. put your ead in a bag. that be a palanquin. don t yer know a palanquin when you see it. say ortheris with great scorn. 
i chuse to call ut sedan chair an chair ut shall be little man continue the irishman. twas a most amazin chair all line wid pink silk an fit wid red silk curtain. here ut be sez the red man. here ut be sez the coolie an he grin weakly way. be ut any use to you. sez the red man. no sez the coolie. i d like to make a presint av ut to you. i be graciously please to accept that same sez the red man. an at that all the cooly cry aloud in fwhat be mint for cheerful note an wint back to their diggin lavin me alone in the shed. the red man saw me an his face grow blue on his big fat neck. fwhat d you want here. sez he. standin room an no more sez i onless it may be fwhat ye niver have an that s manner ye rafflin ruffian for i be not goin to have the service throd upon. out of this sez he. i m in charge av this section av construction. i m in charge av mesilf sez i an it s like i will stay a while. d ye raffle much in these part. fwhat s that to you. sez he. nothin sez i but a great dale to you for begad i m thinkin you get the full half av your revenue from that sedan chair. be ut always raffle so. i sez an wid that i wint to a coolie to ask question. bhoys that man s name be dearsley an he s be rafflin that ould sedan chair monthly this matther av nine month. ivry coolie on the section take a ticket or he give em the go wanst a month on pay day. ivry coolie that win ut give ut back to him for ti too big to carry away an he d sack the man that thried to sell ut. that dearsley ha be makin the rowlin wealth av roshus by nefarious rafflin. think av the burnin shame to the sufferin coolie man that the army in injia be bind to protect an nourish in their bosom. two thousand cooly defraud wanst a month. 
dom t cooly. ha t get t cheer man. say learoyd. 
hould on. havin onearthed this amazin an stupenjus fraud commit by the man dearsley i hild a council av war. he thryin all the time to sejuce me into a fight with opprobrious language. that sedan chair niver belong by right to any foreman av cooly. ti a king s chair or a quane s. there s gold on ut an silk an all manner av trapesemints. bhoys ti not for me to countenance any sort av wrong doin me bein the ould man but anyway he ha have ut nine month an he dare not make throuble av ut be take from him. five mile away or ut may be six. 
there be a long pause and the jackal howl merrily. learoyd bar one arm and contemplate it in the moonlight. then he nod partly to himself and partly to his friend. ortheris wriggle with suppress emotion. 
i think ye wud see the reasonableness av ut say mulvaney. i make bould to say a much to the man before. he be for a direct front attack fut horse an gun an all for nothin seein that i have no thransport to convey the machine away. i will not argue wid you sez i this day but subsequently mister dearsley me rafflin jool we talk ut out lengthways. ti no good policy to swindle the naygur av his hard earn emolumints an by presint informashin twas the kyart man that tould me ye ve be perpethrating that same for nine month. but i m a just man sez i an overlookin the presumpshin that yondher settee wid the gild top be not come by honust at that he turn sky green so i know thing be more thrue than tellable not come by honust i m willin to compound the felony for this month s winnin s. 
ah. ho. from learoyd and ortheris. 
that man dearsley s rushin on his fate continue mulvaney solemnly wag his head. all hell have no name bad enough for me that tide. faith he call me a robber. me. that be savin him from continuin in his evil way widout a remonstrince an to a man av conscience a remonstrince may change the chune av his life. ti not for me to argue sez i fwhatever ye be mister dearsley but by my hand i ll take away the temptation for you that lie in that sedan chair. you will have to fight me for ut sez he for well i know you will never dare make report to any one. fight i will sez i but not this day for i m rejuced for want av nourishment. ye re an ould bould hand sez he sizin me up an down. an a jool av a fight we will have. eat now an dhrink an go your way. wid that he give me some hump an whisky good whisky an we talk av this an that the while. it go hard on me now sez i wipin my mouth to confiscate that piece av furniture but justice be justice. ye ve not get ut yet sez he. there s the fight between. there be sez i an a good fight. ye shall have the pick av the best quality in my rigimint for the dinner you have give this day. thin i come hot foot to you two. hould your tongue the both. ti this way. to morrow we three will go there an he shall have his pick betune me an jock. jock s a deceivin fighter for he be all fat to the eye an he move slow. now i m all beef to the look an i move quick. by my reckonin the dearsley man win t take me. so me an orth ri ll see fair play. jock i tell you twill be big fightin whip wid the cream above the jam. afther the business twill take a good three av u jock ll be very hurt to haul away that sedan chair. 
palanquin. this from ortheris. 
fwhatever ut be we must have ut. ti the only sellin piece av property widin reach that we can get so cheap. an fwhat s a fight afther all. he ha rob the naygur man dishonust. we rob him honust for the sake av the whisky he give me. 
but wot ll we do with the bloomin article when we ve get it. them palanquin be a big a ouse an uncommon ard to sell a mccleary say when ye steal the sentry box from the curragh. 
who s goin to do t fightin. say learoyd and ortheris subside. the three return to barrack without a word. mulvaney s last argument clinch the matter. this palanquin be property vendible and to be attain in the simple and least embarrass fashion. it would eventually become beer. great be mulvaney. 
next afternoon a procession of three form itself and disappear into the scrub in the direction of the new railway line. learoyd alone be without care for mulvaney dive darkly into the future and little ortheris fear the unknown. what befall at that interview in the lonely pay shed by the side of the half build embankment only a few hundred cooly know and their tale be confuse one run thus. 
we be at work. three men in red coat come. they saw the sahib dearsley sahib. they make oration. and noticeably the small man among the red coat. dearsley sahib also make oration and use many very strong word. upon this talk they depart together to an open space and there the fat man in the red coat fight with dearsley sahib after the custom of white men with his hand make no noise and never at all pull dearsley sahib s hair. such of u a be not afraid behold these thing for just so long a time a a man need to cook the mid day meal. the small man in the red coat have possess himself of dearsley sahib s watch. no he do not steal that watch. he hold it in his hand and at certain season make outcry and the twain cease their combat which be like the combat of young bull in spring. both men be soon all red but dearsley sahib be much more red than the other. see this and fear for his life because we greatly love him some fifty of u make shift to rush upon the red coat. but a certain man very black a to the hair and in no way to be confuse with the small man or the fat man who fight that man we affirm run upon u and of u he embrace some ten or fifty in both arm and beat our head together so that our liver turn to water and we run away. it be not good to interfere in the fighting of white men. after that dearsley sahib fell and do not rise these men jump upon his stomach and despoil him of all his money and attempt to fire the pay shed and depart. be it true that dearsley sahib make no complaint of these latter thing have be do. we be senseless with fear and do not at all remember. there be no palanquin near the pay shed. what do we know about palanquin. be it true that dearsley sahib doe not return to this place on account of his sickness for ten day. this be the fault of those bad men in the red coat who should be severely punish. for dearsley sahib be both our father and mother and we love him much. yet if dearsley sahib doe not return to this place at all we will speak the truth. there be a palanquin for the up keep of which we be force to pay nine tenth of our monthly wage. on such mulct dearsley sahib allow u to make obeisance to him before the palanquin. what could we do. we be poor men. he take a full half of our wage. will the government repay u those money. those three men in red coat bore the palanquin upon their shoulder and depart. all the money that dearsley sahib have take from u be in the cushion of that palanquin. therefore they steal it. thousand of rupee be there all our money. it be our bank box to fill which we cheerfully contribute to dearsley sahib three seventh of our monthly wage. why doe the white man look upon u with the eye of disfavour. before god there be a palanquin and now there be no palanquin. and if they send the police here to make inquisition we can only say that there never ha be any palanquin. why should a palanquin be near these work. we be poor men and we know nothing. 
such be the simple version of the simple story connect with the descent upon dearsley. from the lip of the cooly i receive it. dearsley himself be in no condition to say anything and mulvaney preserve a massive silence break only by the occasional lick of the lip. he have see a fight so gorgeous that even his power of speech be take from him. i respect that reserve until three day after the affair i discover in a disused stable in my quarter a palanquin of unchastened splendour evidently in past day the litter of a queen. the pole whereby it swing between the shoulder of the bearer be rich with the paint papier mache of cashmere. the shoulder pad be of yellow silk. the panel of the litter itself be ablaze with the love of all the god and goddess of the hindu pantheon lacquer on cedar. the cedar slide door be fit with hasp of translucent jaipur enamel and run in groove shoe with silver. the cushion be of brocade delhi silk and the curtain which once hide any glimpse of the beauty of the king s palace be stiff with gold. close investigation show that the entire fabric be everywhere rub and discolour by time and wear. but even thus it be sufficiently gorgeous to deserve house on the threshold of a royal zenana. i find no fault with it except that it be in my stable. then try to lift it by the silver shoe shoulder pole i laugh. the road from dearsley s pay shed to the cantonment be a narrow and uneven one and traverse by three very inexperienced palanquin bearer one of whom be sorely batter about the head must have be a path of torment. still i do not quite recognise the right of the three musketeer to turn me into a fence for steal property. 
i m askin you to warehouse ut say mulvaney when he be bring to consider the question. there s no steal in ut. dearsley tould u we cud have ut if we fight. jock fight an oh sorr when the throuble be at ut fine an jock be bleedin like a stick pig an little orth ri be shquealin on one leg chewin big bite out av dearsley s watch i wud ha give my place at the fight to have have you see wan round. he tuk jock a i suspicioned he would an jock be deceptive. nine roun s they be even match an at the tenth about that palanquin now. there s not the least throuble in the world or we wud not ha bring ut here. you will ondherstand that the queen god bless her. doe not reckon for a privit soldier to kape elephints an palanquin an sich in barricks. afther we have dhragged ut down from dearsley s through that cruel scrub that near break orth ri s heart we set ut in the ravine for a night. an a thief av a porcupine an a civet cat av a jackal roost in ut a well we know in the mornin. i put ut to you sorr be an elegint palanquin fit for the princess the natural abidin place av all the vermin in cantonmints. we bring ut to you afther dhark and put ut in your shtable. do not let your conscience prick. think av the rejoicin men in the pay shed yonder lookin at dearsley wid his head tie up in a towel an well knowin that they can dhraw their pay ivry month widout stoppage for riffle. indirectly sorr you have rescue from an onprincipled son av a night hawk the peasanthry av a numerous village. an besides will i let that sedan chair rot on our hand. not i. ti not every day a piece av pure joolry come into the market. there s not a king widin these forty mile he wave his hand round the dusty horizon not a king wud not be glad to buy ut. some day meself whin i have leisure i ll take ut up along the road an dishpose av ut. 
how. say i for i know the man be capable of anything. 
get into ut av coorse and keep wan eye open through the curtain. whin i see a likely man av the native persuasion i will descind blushin from my canopy and say buy a palanquin ye black scutt. i will have to hire four men to carry me first though. and that s impossible till next pay day. 
curiously enough learoyd who have fight for the prize and in the win secure the high pleasure life have to offer him be altogether dispose to undervalue it while ortheris openly say it would be good to break the thing up. dearsley he argue might be a many side man capable despite his magnificent fight quality of set in motion the machinery of the civil law a thing much abhor by the soldier. under any circumstance their fun have come and pass. the next pay day be close at hand when there would be beer for all. wherefore long conserve the paint palanquin. 
a first class rifle shoot an a good little man av your inch you be say mulvaney. but you niver have a head worth a soft boil egg. ti me ha to lie awake av night schamin an plottin for the three av u. orth ri me son ti no matther av a few gallon av beer no nor twenty gallon but tub an vat an firkin in that sedan chair. who ut be an what ut be an how ut get there we do not know. but i know in my bone that you an me an jock wid his sprain thumb will get a fortune thereby. lave me alone an let me think. 
meantime the palanquin stay in my stall the key of which be in mulvaney s hand. 
pay day come and with it beer. it be not in experience to hope that mulvaney dry by four week drought would avoid excess. next morning he and the palanquin have disappear. he have take the precaution of get three day leave to see a friend on the railway and the colonel well know that the seasonal outburst be near and hop it would spend it force beyond the limit of his jurisdiction cheerfully give him all he demand. at this point mulvaney s history a record in the mess room stop. 
ortheris carry it not much further. no e wasn t drink say the little man loyally the liquor be no more than feelin it way round inside of im. but e go an fill that ole bloomin palanquin with bottle fore e go off. e s go an ired six men to carry im an i ad to elp im into be nupshal couch cause e wouldn t ear reason. e s go off in be shirt an trousies swearin tremenjus go down the road in the palanquin wavin be leg out o windy. 
yes say i but where. 
now you arx me a question. e say e be goin to sell that palanquin but from observation what happen when i be stuffin im through the door i fancy e s go to the new embankment to mock at dearsley. soon a jock s off duty i m goin there to see if e s safe not mulvaney but t other man. my saint but i pity im a elps terence out o the palanquin when e s once fair drink. 
he ll come back without harm i say. 
corse e will. on y question be what ll e be doin on the road. kill dearsley like a not. e shouldn t a go without jock or me. 
reinforce by learoyd ortheris seek the foreman of the coolie gang. dearsley s head be still embellish with towel. mulvaney drink or sober would have strike no man in that condition and dearsley indignantly deny that he would have take advantage of the intoxicate brave. 
i have my pick o you two he explain to learoyd and you get my palanquin not before i d make my profit on it. why d i do harm when everything s settle. your man do come here drink a davy s sow on a frosty night come a purpose to mock me stick his head out of the door an call me a crucify hodman. i make him drunk an send him along. but i never touch him. 
to these thing learoyd slow to perceive the evidence of sincerity answer only if owt come to mulvaaney long o you i ll gripple you clout or no clout on your ugly head an i ll draw t throat twistyways man. see there now. 
the embassy remove itself and dearsley the batter laugh alone over his supper that even. 
three day pass a fourth and a fifth. the week draw to a close and mulvaney do not return. he his royal palanquin and his six attendant have vanish into air. a very large and very tipsy soldier his foot stick out of the litter of a reign princess be not a thing to travel along the way without comment. yet no man of all the country round have see any such wonder. he be and he be not. and learoyd suggest the immediate smashment of dearsley a a sacrifice to his ghost. ortheris insist that all be well and in the light of past experience his hope seem reasonable. 
when mulvaney go up the road say he e s like to go a very long way up specially when e s so blue drink a e be now. but what git me be be not bein eard of pullin wool off the nigger somewhere about. that don t look good. the drink must ha die out in im by this unless e s break a bank an then why don t e come back. e didn t ought to ha go off without u. 
even ortheris s heart sink at the end of the seventh day for half the regiment be out scour the country side and learoyd have be force to fight two men who hint openly that mulvaney have desert. to do him justice the colonel laugh at the notion even when it be put forward by his much trust adjutant. 
mulvaney would a soon think of desert a you would say he. no. he s either fall into a mischief among the villager and yet that isn t likely for he d blarney himself out of the pit. or else he be engage on urgent private affair some stupendous devilment that we shall hear of at mess after it ha be the round of the barrack room. the bad of it be that i shall have to give him twenty eight day confinement at least for be absent without leave just when i most want him to lick the new batch of recruit into shape. i never know a man who could put a polish on young soldier a quickly a mulvaney can. how doe he do it. 
with blarney and the buckle end of a belt sir say the adjutant. he be worth a couple of non commission officer when we be deal with an irish draft and the london lad seem to adore him. the bad of it be that if he go to the cell the other two be neither to hold nor to bind till he come out again. i believe ortheris preach mutiny on those occasion and i know that the mere presence of learoyd mourn for mulvaney kill all the cheerfulness of his room. the sergeant tell me that he allow no man to laugh when he feel unhappy. they be a queer gang. 
for all that i wish we have a few more of them. i like a well conduct regiment but these pasty face shifty eye mealy mouth young sloucher from the depot worry me sometimes with their offensive virtue. they don t seem to have backbone enough to do anything but play card and prowl round the marry quarter. i believe i d forgive that old villain on the spot if he turn up with any sort of explanation that i could in decency accept. 
not likely to be much difficulty about that sir say the adjutant. mulvaney s explanation be only one degree le wonderful than his performance. they say that when he be in the black tyrone before he come to u he be discover on the bank of the liffey try to sell his colonel s charger to a donegal dealer a a perfect lady s hack. shackbolt command the tyrone then. 
shackbolt must have have apoplexy at the think of his ramp war horse answer to that description. he use to buy unbacked devil and tame them on some pet theory of starvation. what do mulvaney say. 
that he be a member of the society for the prevention of cruelty to animal anxious to sell the poor baste where he would get something to fill out his dimple. shackbolt laugh but i fancy that be why mulvaney exchange to ours. 
i wish he be back say the colonel. for i like him and believe he like me. 
that even to cheer our soul learoyd ortheris and i go into the waste to smoke out a porcupine. all the dog attend but even their clamour and they begin to discus the shortcoming of porcupine before they leave cantonment could not take u out of ourselves. a large low moon turn the top of the plume grass to silver and the stunt camelthorn bush and sour tamarisk into the likeness of troop devil. the smell of the sun have not leave the earth and little aimless wind blow across the rise garden to the southward bring the scent of dry rose and water. our fire once start and the dog craftily dispose to wait the dash of the porcupine we climb to the top of a rain scar hillock of earth and look across the scrub seam with cattle path white with the long grass and dot with spot of level pond bottom where the snipe would gather in winter. 
this say ortheris with a sigh a he take in the unkempt desolation of it all this be sanguinary. this be unusually sanguinary. sort o mad country. like a grate when the fire s put out by the sun. he shade his eye against the moonlight. an there s a loony dancin in the middle of it all. quite right. i d dance too if i wasn t so downheart. 
there prance a portent in the face of the moon a huge and rag spirit of the waste that flap it wing from afar. it have rise out of the earth. it be come towards u and it outline be never twice the same. the toga table cloth or dress gown whatever the creature wear take a hundred shape. once it stop on a neighbour mound and fling all it leg and arm to the wind. 
my but that scarecrow a get em bad. say ortheris. seem like if e come any furder we ll ave to argify with im. 
learoyd raise himself from the dirt a a bull clear his flank of the wallow. and a a bull bellow so he after a short minute at gaze give tongue to the star. 
mulvaaney. mulvaaney. a hoo. 
oh then it be that we yell and the figure dip into the hollow till with a crash of rend grass the lose one stride up to the light of the fire and disappear to the waist in a wave of joyous dog. then learoyd and ortheris give greet bass and falsetto together both swallow a lump in the throat. 
you damn fool. say they and severally pound him with their fist. 
go easy. he answer. wrap a huge arm round each. i would have you to know that i be a god to be treat a such tho by my faith i fancy i ve get to go to the guard room just like a privit soldier. 
the latter part of the sentence destroy the suspicion raise by the former. any one would have be justify in regard mulvaney a mad. he be hatless and shoeless and his shirt and trouser be drop off him. but he wear one wondrous garment a gigantic cloak that fell from collar bone to heel of pale pink silk work all over in cunning needlework of hand long since dead with the love of the hindu god. the monstrous figure leap in and out of the light of the fire a he settle the fold round him. 
ortheris handle the stuff respectfully for a moment while i be try to remember where i have see it before. then he scream what ave you do with the palanquin. you re wearin the linin. 
i be say the irishman an by the same token the broidery be scrapin my hide off. i ve live in this sumpshus counterpane for four day. me son i begin to ondherstand why the naygur be no use. widout me boot an me trousies like an openwork stock on a gyurl s leg at a dance i begin to feel like a naygur man all fearful an timoreous. give me a pipe an i ll tell on. 
he light a pipe resume his grip of his two friend and rock to and fro in a gale of laughter. 
mulvaney say ortheris sternly tain t no time for laughin. you ve give jock an me more trouble than you re worth. you ave be absent without leave an you ll go into cell for that. an you ave come back disgustin ly dress an most improper in the linin o that bloomin palanquin. instid of which you laugh. an we think you be dead all the time. 
bhoys say the culprit still shake gently whin i ve do my tale you may cry if you like an little orth ri here can thrample my inside out. ha do an listen. my performance have be stupenjus. my luck ha be the bless luck av the british army an there s no betther than that. i go out dhrunk an dhrinkin in the palanquin and i have come back a pink god. do any of you go to dearsley afther my time be up. he be at the bottom of ut all. 
ah say so murmur learoyd. to morrow ah ll smash t face in upon his heead. 
ye will not. dearsley s a jool av a man. afther ortheris have put me into the palanquin an the six bearer men be gruntin down the road i tuk think to mock dearsley for that fight. so i tould thim go to the embankmint and there bein most amazin full i shtuck my head out av the concern an pass compliment wid dearsley. i must ha miscall him outrageous for whin i be that way the power av the tongue come on me. i can bare remimber tellin him that his mouth open endways like the mouth av a skate which be thrue afther learoyd have handle ut. an i clear remimber his takin no manner nor matter av offence but givin me a big dhrink of beer. twas the beer do the thrick for i crawl back into the palanquin steppin on me right ear wid me leave foot an thin i sleep like the dead. wanst i half rouse an begad the noise in my head be tremenjus roarin and rattlin an poundin such a be quite new to me. mother av mercy think i phwat a concertina i will have on my shoulder whin i wake. an wid that i curl mysilf up to sleep before ut should get hould on me. bhoys that noise be not dhrink twas the rattle av a thrain. 
there follow an impressive pause. 
yes he have put me on a thrain put me palanquin an all an six black assassin av his own cooly that be in his nefarious confidence on the flat av a ballast thruck and we be rowlin an bowlin along to benares. glory be that i do not wake up thin an introjuce mysilf to the cooly. a i be sayin i sleep for the betther part av a day an a night. but remimber you that that man dearsley have pack me off on wan av his material thrains to benares all for to make me overstay my leave an get me into the cell. 
the explanation be an eminently rational one. benares lay at least ten hour by rail from the cantonment and nothing in the world could have save mulvaney from arrest a a deserter have he appear there in the apparel of his orgy. dearsley have not forget to take revenge. learoyd draw back a little begin to place soft blow over select portion of mulvaney s body. his thought be away on the embankment and they meditate evil for dearsley. mulvaney continue. 
whin i be full awake the palanquin be set down in a street i suspicioned for i cud hear people passin an talkin. but i know well i be far from home. there be a queer smell upon our cantonment a smell av dry earth and brick kiln wid whiff av cavalry stable litter. this place smelt marigold flower an bad water an wanst somethin alive come an blow heavy with his muzzle at the chink av the shutter. it s in a village i be think i to mysilf an the parochial buffalo be investigatin the palanquin. but anyways i have no desire to move. only lie still whin you re in foreign part an the standin luck av the british army will carry ye through. that be an epigram. i make ut. 
thin a lot av whishperin divils surround the palanquin. take ut up sez wan man. but who ll pay u. sez another. the maharanee s minister av coorse sez the man. oho. sez i to mysilf i m a quane in me own right wid a minister to pay me expense. i ll be an emperor if i lie still long enough. but this be no village i ve find. i lay quiet but i gum me right eye to a crack av the shutter an i saw that the whole street be cram wid palanquin an horse an a sprinklin av naked priest all yellow powder an tiger tail. but i may tell you orth ri an you learoyd that av all the palanquin ours be the most imperial an magnificent. now a palanquin mean a native lady all the world over except whin a soldier av the quane happen to be takin a ride. woman an priest. sez i. your father s son be in the right pew this time terence. there will be proceedin s. six black divils in pink muslin tuk up the palanquin an oh. but the rowlin an the rockin make me sick. thin we get fair jam among the palanquin not more than fifty av them an we grate an bump like queenstown potato smack in a runnin tide. i cud hear the woman gigglin and squirkin in their palanquin but mine be the royal equipage. they make way for ut an begad the pink muslin men o mine be howlin room for the maharanee av gokral seetarun. do you know aught av the lady sorr. 
yes say i. she be a very estimable old queen of the central indian state and they say she be fat. how on earth could she go to benares without all the city know her palanquin. 
twas the eternal foolishness av the naygur man. they saw the palanquin lie loneful an forlornsome an the beauty av ut after dearsley s men have dhropped ut and go away an they give ut the best name that occur to thim. quite right too. for aught we know the ould lady be thravellin incog like me. i m glad to hear she s fat. i be no light weight mysilf an my men be mortial anxious to dhrop me under a great big archway promiscuously ornament wid the most improper carvin s an cuttin s i iv saw. begad. they make me blush like a like a maharanee. 
the temple of prithi devi i murmur remember the monstrous horror of that sculpture archway at benares. 
pretty devilskins savin your presence sorr. there be nothin pretty about ut except me. twas all half dhark an whin the cooly leave they shut a big black gate behind av u an half a company av fat yellow priest begin pully haulin the palanquin into a dharker place yet a big stone hall full av pillar an god an incense an all manner av similar thruck. the gate disconcert me for i perceive i wud have to go forward to get out my retreat bein cut off. by the same token a good priest make a bad palanquin coolie. begad. they nearly turn me inside out draggin the palanquin to the temple. now the disposishin av the force inside be this way. the maharanee av gokral seetarun that be me lay by the favour av providence on the far leave flank behind the dhark av a pillar carve with elephints head. the remainder av the palanquin be in a big half circle face in to the big fat an most amazin she god that iv i dream av. her head run up into the black above u an her foot stick out in the light av a little fire av melt butter that a priest be feedin out av a butter dish. thin a man begin to sing an play on somethin back in the dhark an twas a queer song. ut make my hair lift on the back av my neck. thin the door av all the palanquin slide back an the woman bundle out. i saw what i ll niver see again. twas more glorious than thransformations at a pantomime for they be in pink an blue an silver an red an grass green wid di monds an im ralds an great red ruby all over thim. but that be the least part av the glory. o bhoys they be more lovely than the like av any loveliness in hiven. ay their little bare foot be betther than the white hand av a lord s lady an their mouth be like pucker rose an their eye be big an dharker than the eye av any livin woman i ve see. ye may laugh but i m speakin truth. i niver saw the like an niver i will again. 
see that in all probability you be watch the wife and daughter of most of the king of india the chance be that you win t i say for it be dawn on me that mulvaney have stumble upon a big queen pray at benares. 
i niver will he say mournfully. that sight doesn t come twist to any man. it make me ashamed to watch. a fat priest knock at my door. i didn t think he d have the insolince to disturb the maharanee av gokral seetarun so i lay still. the old cow s asleep sez he to another. let her be sez that. twill be long before she ha a calf. i might ha know before he speak that all a woman pray for in injia an for matter o that in england too be childher. that make me more sorry i d come me bein a you well know a childless man. 
he be silent for a moment think of his little son dead many year ago. 
they pray an the butter fire blaze up an the incense turn everything blue an between that an the fire the woman look a tho they be all ablaze an twinklin. they take hold av the she god s knee they cry out an they throw themselves about an that world without end amen music be dhrivin thim mad. mother av hiven. how they cry an the ould she god grinnin above thim all so scornful. the dhrink be dyin out in me fast an i be thinkin hard than the thought wud go through my head thinkin how to get out an all manner of nonsense a well. the woman be rockin in row their di mond belt clickin an the tear runnin out betune their hand an the light be goin low an dharker. thin there be a blaze like lightnin from the roof an that show me the inside av the palanquin an at the end where my foot be stand the livin spit an image o mysilf work on the linin. this man here ut be. 
he hunt in the fold of his pink cloak run a hand under one and thrust into the firelight a foot long embroider presentment of the great god krishna play on a flute. the heavy jowl the star eye and the blue black moustache of the god make up a far off resemblance to mulvaney. 
the blaze be go in a wink but the whole schame come to me thin. i believe i be mad too. i slide the off shutter open an rowled out into the dhark behind the elephint head pillar tuck up my trousies to my knee slip off my boot an tuk a general hould av all the pink linin av the palanquin. glory be ut rip out like a woman s dhriss whin you tread on ut at a sergeant ball an a bottle come with ut. i tuk the bottle an the next minut i be out av the dhark av the pillar the pink linin wrap round me most graceful the music thunderin like kettledrum an a could draft blowin round my bare leg. by this hand that do ut i be khrishna tootlin on the flute the god that the rig mental chaplain talk about. a sweet sight i must ha look. i know my eye be big and my face be wax white an at the bad i must ha look like a ghost. but they take me for the livin god. the music stop and the woman be dead dumb an i crook my leg like a shepherd on a china basin an i do the ghost waggle with my foot a i have do ut at the rig mental theatre many time an i slide acrost the width av that temple in front av the she god tootlin on the beer bottle. 
wot do you toot. demand ortheris the practical. 
me. oh. mulvaney spring up suit the action to the word and slide gravely in front of u a dilapidate but impose deity in the half light. i sing. 
only say you ll be mr. brallaghan. don t say nay charmin judy callaghan. 
i didn t know me own voice when i sing. an oh. twas pitiful to see the woman. the darlin s be down on their face. whin i pass the last wan i cud see her poor little finger workin one in another a if she want to touch my foot. so i dhrew the tail av this pink overcoat over her head for the great honour an i slide into the dhark on the other side av the temple and fetch up in the arm av a big fat priest. all i want be to get away clear. so i tuk him by his greasy throat an shut the speech out av him. out. sez i. which way ye fat heathen. oh. sez he. man sez i. white man soldier man common soldier man. where in the name av confusion be the back door. the woman in the temple be still on their face an a young priest be holdin out his arm above their head. 
this way sez my fat friend duckin behind a big bull god an divin into a passage. thin i remimbered that i must ha make the miraculous reputation av that temple for the next fifty year. not so fast i sez an i hold out both my hand wid a wink. that ould thief smile like a father. i tuk him by the back av the neck in case he should be wishful to put a knife into me unbeknownst an i run him up an down the passage twice to collect his sensibility. be quiet sez he in english. now you talk sense i sez. fwhat ll you give me for the use av that most iligant palanquin i have no time to take away. don t tell sez he. be ut like. sez i. but ye might give me my railway fare. i m far from my home an i ve do you a service. bhoys ti a good thing to be a priest. the ould man niver throubled himself to dhraw from a bank. a i will prove to you subsequint he philander all round the slack av his clothe an begin dribblin ten rupee note old gold mohurs and rupee into my hand till i could hould no more. 
you lie. say ortheris. you re mad or sunstrook. a native don t give coin unless you cut it out o im. tain t nature. 
then my lie an my sunstroke be conceal under that lump av sod yonder retort mulvaney unruffled nod across the scrub. an there s a dale more in nature than your squidgy little leg have iv take you to orth ri me son. four hundred an thirty four rupee by my reckonin an a big fat gold necklace that i take from him a a remimbrancer be our share in that business. 
an e give it you for love. say ortheris. 
we be alone in that passage. maybe i be a trifle too pressin but considher fwhat i have do for the good av the temple and the iverlastin joy av those woman. twas cheap at the price. i wud ha take more if i cud ha find ut. i turn the ould man upside down at the last but he be milk dhry. thin he open a door in another passage an i find mysilf up to my knee in benares river water an bad smellin ut be. more by token i have come out on the river line close to the burnin ghat and contagious to a cracklin corpse. this be in the heart av the night for i have be four hour in the temple. there be a crowd av boat tie up so i tuk wan an wint across the river. thin i come home acrost country lyin up by day. 
how on earth do you manage. i say. 
how do sir frederick robert get from cabul to candahar. he march an he niver tould how near he be to breakin down. that s why he be fwhat he be. an now mulvaney yawn portentously. now i will go an give myself up for absince widout leave. it s eight an twenty day an the rough end of the colonel s tongue in orderly room any way you look at ut. but ti cheap at the price. 
mulvaney say i softly. if there happen to be any sort of excuse that the colonel can in any way accept i have a notion that you ll get nothing more than the dress gown. the new recruit be in and. 
not a word more sorr. be ut excuse the old man want. ti not my way but he shall have thim. i ll tell him i be engage in financial operation connect wid a church and he flap his way to cantonment and the cell sing lustily. 
so they send a corp ril s file and they put me in the gyard room for conduck unbecomin of a soldier. 
and when he be lose in the midst of the moonlight we could hear the refrain. 
bang upon the big drum bash upon the cymbal a we go marchin along boy oh. for although in this campaign there s no whisky nor champagne we ll keep our spirit goin with a song boy. 
therewith he surrender himself to the joyful and almost weep guard and be make much of by his fellow. but to the colonel he say that he have be smite with sunstroke and have lie insensible on a villager s cot for untold hour. and between laughter and goodwill the affair be smooth over so that he could next day teach the new recruit how to fear god honour the queen shoot straight and keep clean. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
what do the colonel s lady think. nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you git to a man in the case they re like a row o pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. barrack room ballad. 
al day i have follow at the heel of a pursue army engage on one of the fine battle that ever camp of exercise behold. thirty thousand troop have by the wisdom of the government of india be turn loose over a few thousand square mile of country to practise in peace what they would never attempt in war. consequently cavalry charge unshaken infantry at the trot. infantry capture artillery by frontal attack deliver in line of quarter column and mount infantry skirmish up to the wheel of an armour train which carry nothing more deadly than a twenty five pounder armstrong two nordenfeldts and a few score volunteer all case in three eighth inch boiler plate. yet it be a very lifelike camp. operation do not cease at sundown. nobody know the country and nobody spar man or horse. there be unending cavalry scout and almost unending force work over break grind. the army of the south have finally pierce the centre of the army of the north and be pour through the gap hot foot to capture a city of strategic importance. it front extend fanwise the stick be represent by regiment string out along the line of route backwards to the divisional transport column and all the lumber that trail behind an army on the move. on it right the break leave of the army of the north be fly in mass chase by the southern horse and hammer by the southern gun till these have be push far beyond the limit of their last support. then the fly sit down to rest while the elate commandant of the pursue force telegraph that he hold all in check and observation. 
unluckily he do not observe that three mile to his right flank a fly column of northern horse with a detachment of ghoorkhas and british troop have be push round a fast a the fail light allow to cut across the entire rear of the southern army to break a it be all the rib of the fan where they converge by strike at the transport reserve ammunition and artillery supply. their instruction be to go in avoid the few scout who might not have be draw off by the pursuit and create sufficient excitement to impress the southern army with the wisdom of guard their own flank and rear before they capture city. it be a pretty manoeuvre neatly carry out. 
speak for the second division of the southern army our first intimation of the attack be at twilight when the artillery be labour in deep sand most of the escort be try to help them out and the main body of the infantry have go on. a noah s ark of elephant camel and the mix menagerie of an indian transport train bubble and squeal behind the gun when there appear from nowhere in particular british infantry to the extent of three company who spring to the head of the gun horse and bring all to a standstill amid oath and cheer. 
how s that umpire. say the major command the attack and with one voice the driver and limber gunner answer hout. while the colonel of artillery sputter. 
all your scout be charge our main body say the major. your flank be unprotected for two mile. i think we ve break the back of this division. and listen there go the ghoorkhas. 
a weak fire break from the rear guard more than a mile away and be answer by cheerful howling. the ghoorkhas who should have swing clear of the second division have step on it tail in the dark but draw off hasten to reach the next line of attack which lay almost parallel to u five or six mile away. 
our column sway and surge irresolutely three battery the divisional ammunition reserve the baggage and a section of the hospital and bearer corp. the commandant ruefully promise to report himself cut up to the near umpire and commend his cavalry and all other cavalry to the special care of eblis toil on to resume touch with the rest of the division. 
we ll bivouac here to night say the major i have a notion that the ghoorkhas will get catch. they may want u to re form on. stand easy till the transport get away. 
a hand catch my beast s bridle and lead him out of the choke dust. a large hand deftly cant me out of the saddle. and two of the huge hand in the world receive me slide. pleasant be the lot of the special correspondent who fall into such hand a those of private mulvaney ortheris and learoyd. 
an that s all right say the irishman calmly. we think we d find you somewhere here by. be there anything av yours in the transport. orth ri ll fetch ut out. 
ortheris do fetch ut out from under the trunk of an elephant in the shape of a servant and an animal both lade with medical comfort. the little man s eye sparkle. 
if the brutil an licentious soldiery av these part get sight av the thruck say mulvaney make practise investigation they ll loot ev rything. they re bein feed on iron filin s an dog biscuit these day but glory s no compensation for a belly ache. praise be we re here to protect you sorr. beer sausage bread. soft an that s a cur osity. soup in a tin whisky by the smell av ut an fowl. mother av moses but ye take the field like a confectioner. ti scand lu. 
ere s a orficer say ortheris significantly. when the sergent s do lushin the privit may clean the pot. 
i bundle several thing into mulvaney s haversack before the major s hand fell on my shoulder and he say tenderly requisition for the queen s service. wolseley be quite wrong about special correspondent. they be the soldier s best friend. come and take pot luck with u to night. 
and so it happen amid laughter and shouting that my well consider commissariat melt away to reappear late at the mess table which be a waterproof sheet spread on the grind. the fly column have take three day ration with it and there be few thing nasty than government ration especially when government be experiment with german toy. erbsenwurst tin beef of surpass tinniness compress vegetable and meat biscuit may be nourish but what thomas atkins need be bulk in his inside. the major assist by his brother officer purchase goat for the camp and so make the experiment of no effect. long before the fatigue party send to collect brushwood have return the men be settle down by their valise kettle and pot have appear from the surround country and be dangle over fire a the kid and the compress vegetable bubble together. there rise a cheerful clink of mess tin. outrageous demand for a little more stuffin with that there liver wing. and gust on gust of chaff a point a a bayonet and a delicate a a gun butt. 
the boy be in a good temper say the major. they ll be sing presently. well a night like this be enough to keep them happy. 
over our head burn the wonderful indian star which be not all prick in on one plane but preserve an orderly perspective draw the eye through the velvet darkness of the void up to the bar door of heaven itself. the earth be a gray shadow more unreal than the sky. we could hear her breathe lightly in the pause between the howl of the jackal the movement of the wind in the tamarisk and the fitful mutter of musketry fire league away to the leave. a native woman from some unseen hut begin to sing the mail train thunder past on it way to delhi and a roost crow caw drowsily. then there be a belt loosen silence about the fire and the even breathe of the crowd earth take up the story. 
the men full feed turn to tobacco and song their officer with them. the subaltern be happy who can win the approval of the musical critic in his regiment and be honour among the more intricate step dancer. by him a by him who play cricket cleverly thomas atkins will stand in time of need when he will let a good officer go on alone. the ruin tomb of forget mussulman saint hear the ballad of agra town the buffalo battery march to kabul the long long indian day the place where the punkah coolie die and that crash chorus which announce. 
youth s dare spirit manhood s fire firm hand and eagle eye must he acquire who would aspire to see the gray boar die. 
to day of all those jovial thief who appropriate my commissariat and lay and laugh round that water proof sheet not one remain. they go to camp that be not of exercise and battle without umpire. burmah the soudan and the frontier fever and fight take them in their time. 
i drift across to the men s fire in search of mulvaney whom i find strategically grease his foot by the blaze. there be nothing particularly lovely in the sight of a private thus engage after a long day s march but when you reflect on the exact proportion of the might majesty dominion and power of the british empire which stand on those foot you take an interest in the proceeding. 
there s a blister bad luck to ut on the heel say mulvaney. i can t touch ut. prick ut out little man. 
ortheris take out his house wife ease the trouble with a needle stab mulvaney in the calf with the same weapon and be swiftly kick into the fire. 
i ve bruk the best av my toe over you ye grinnin child av disruption say mulvaney sit cross legged and nurse his foot. then see me oh ut s you sorr. be welkim an take that maraudin scutt s place. jock hold him down on the cindhers for a bite. 
but ortheris escape and go elsewhere a i take possession of the hollow he have scrap for himself and line with his greatcoat. learoyd on the other side of the fire grin affably and in a minute fell fast asleep. 
there s the height av politeness for you say mulvaney light his pipe with a flame branch. but jock s eat half a box av your sardine at wan gulp an i think the tin too. what s the best wid you sorr an how do you happen to be on the losin side this day whin we capture you. 
the army of the south be win all along the line i say. 
then that line s the hangman s rope savin your presence. you ll learn to morrow how we rethreated to dhraw thim on before we make thim trouble an that s what a woman doe. by the same tokin we ll be attack before the dawnin an ut would be betther not to slip your boot. how do i know that. by the light av pure reason. here be three company av u ever so far inside av the enemy s flank an a crowd av roarin tarin squealin cavalry go on just to turn out the whole hornet s nest av them. av course the enemy will pursue by brigade like a not an thin we ll have to run for ut. mark my word. i be av the opinion av polonius whin he say don t fight wid ivry scutt for the pure joy av fightin but if you do knock the nose av him first an frequint. we ought to ha go on an help the ghoorkhas. 
but what do you know about polonius. i demand. this be a new side of mulvaney s character. 
all that shakespeare iv write an a dale more that the gallery shout say the man of war carefully lace his boot. do i not tell you av silver s theatre in dublin whin i be young than i be now an a patron av the drama. ould silver wud never pay actor man or woman their just due an by consequince his comp ny be collapsible at the last minut. thin the bhoys wud clamour to take a part an oft a not ould silver make them pay for the fun. faith i ve see hamlut play wid a new black eye an the queen a full a a cornucopia. i remimber wanst hogin that list in the black tyrone an be shoot in south africa he sejuced ould silver into givin him hamlut s part instid av me that have a fine fancy for rhetoric in those day. av course i wint into the gallery an begin to fill the pit wid other people s hat an i pass the time av day to hogin walkin through denmark like a hamstring mule wid a pall on his back. hamlut sez i there s a hole in your heel. pull up your shtockin s hamlut sez i hamlut hamlut for the love av decincy dhrop that skull an pull up your shtockin s. the whole house begin to tell him that. he stop his soliloquishms mid between. my shtockin s may be comin down or they may not sez he screwin his eye into the gallery for well he know who i be. but afther this performince be over me an the ghost ll trample the tripe out av you terence wid your as s bray. an that s how i come to know about hamlut. eyah. those day those day. do you iv have onendin devilmint an nothin to pay for it in your life sorr. 
never without have to pay i say. 
that s thrue. ti mane whin you considher on ut. but ut s the same wid horse or fut. a headache if you dhrink an a belly ache if you eat too much an a heart ache to kape all down. faith the beast only get the colic an he s the lucky man. 
he drop his head and star into the fire finger his moustache the while. from the far side of the bivouac the voice of corbet nolan senior subaltern of b company uplift itself in an ancient and much appreciate song of sentiment the men moan melodiously behind him. 
the north wind blow coldly she droop from that hour my own little kathleen my sweet little kathleen kathleen my kathleen kathleen o moore. 
with forty five o s in the last word. even at that distance you might have cut the soft south irish accent with a shovel. 
for all we take we must pay but the price be cruel high murmur mulvaney when the chorus have cease. 
what s the trouble. i say gently for i know that he be a man of an inextinguishable sorrow. 
hear now say he. ye know what i be now. i know what i mint to be at the beginnin av my service. i ve tould you time an again an what i have not dinah shadd ha. an what be i. oh mary mother av hiven an ould dhrunken untrustable baste av a privit that ha see the reg ment change out from colonel to drummer boy not wanst or twice but score av time. ay score. an me not so near gettin promotion a in the first. an me livin on an kapin clear av clink not by my own good conduck but the kindness av some orf cer bhoy young enough to be son to me. do i not know ut. can i not tell whin i m pass over at p rade tho i m rockin full av liquor an ready to fall all in wan piece such a even a suckin child might see bekaze oh ti only ould mulvaney. an whin i m let off in ord ly room through some thrick of the tongue an a ready answer an the ould man s mercy be ut smilin i feel whin i fall away an go back to dinah shadd thryin to carry ut all off a a joke. not i. ti hell to me dumb hell through ut all. an next time whin the fit come i will be a bad again. good cause the reg ment ha to know me for the best soldier in ut. good cause have i to know mesilf for the bad man. i m only fit to tache the new draft what i ll niver learn mesilf. an i be sure a tho i hear ut that the minut wan av these pink eye recruities get away from my mind ye now an listen to this jim bhoy sure i be that the sergint houlds me up to him for a warnin. so i tache a they say at musketry instruction by direct and ricochet fire. lord be good to me for i have stud some throuble. 
lie down and go to sleep say i not be able to comfort or advise. you re the best man in the regiment and next to ortheris the big fool. lie down and wait till we re attack. what force will they turn out. gun think you. 
try that wid your lorrds an lady twistin an turnin the talk tho you mint ut well. ye cud say nothin to help me an yet ye niver know what cause i have to be what i be. 
begin at the begin and go on to the end i say royally. but rake up the fire a bite first. 
i pass ortheris s bayonet for a poker. 
that show how little we know what we do say mulvaney put it aside. fire take all the heart out av the steel an the next time may be that our little man be fight for his life his bradawl ll break an so you ll ha kill him manin no more than to kape yourself warm. ti a recruity s thrick that. pas the clanin rod sorr. 
i snuggle down abase. and after an interval the voice of mulvaney begin. 
do i iv tell you how dinah shadd come to be wife av mine. 
i dissemble a burn anxiety that i have felt for some month ever since dinah shadd the strong the patient and the infinitely tender have of her own good love and free will wash a shirt for me move in a barren land where wash be not. 
i can t remember i say casually. be it before or after you make love to annie bragin and get no satisfaction. 
the story of annie bragin be write in another place. it be one of the many le respectable episode in mulvaney s chequer career. 
before before long before be that business av annie bragin an the corp ril s ghost. niver woman be the bad for me whin i have marry dinah. there s a time for all thing an i know how to kape all thing in place barrin the dhrink that kapes me in my place wid no hope av comin to be aught else. 
begin at the begin i insist. mr. mulvaney tell me that you marry her when you be quarter in krab bokhar barrack. 
an the same be a ce pit say mulvaney piously. she speak thrue do dinah. twas this way. talkin av that have ye iv fall in love sorr. 
i preserve the silence of the damn. mulvaney continue. 
thin i will assume that ye have not. i do. in the day av my youth a i have more than wanst tould you i be a man that fill the eye an delight the sowl av woman. niver man be hat a i have bin. niver man be love a i no not within half a day s march av ut. for the first five year av my service whin i be what i wud give my sowl to be now i tuk whatever be within my reach an digest ut an that s more than most men can say. dhrink i tuk an ut do me no harm. by the hollow av hiven i cud play wid four woman at wanst an kape them from findin out anythin about the other three an smile like a full blow marigold through ut all. dick coulhan av the battery we ll have down on u to night could drive his team no betther than i mine an i hild the worse cattle. an so i live an so i be happy till afther that business wid annie bragin she that turn me off a cool a a meat safe an teach me where i stud in the mind av an honest woman. twas no sweet dose to swallow. 
afther that i sicken awhile an tuk think to my reg mental work. conceiting mesilf i wud study an be a sergint an a major gineral twinty minute afther that. but on top av my ambitiousness there be an empty place in my sowl an me own opinion av mesilf cud not fill ut. sez i to mesilf terence you re a great man an the best set up in the reg mint. go on an get promotion. sez mesilf to me what for. sez i to mesilf for the glory av ut. sez mesilf to me will that fill these two strong arrums av yours terence. go to the devil sez i to mesilf. go to the marry line sez mesilf to me. ti the same thing sez i to mesilf. av you re the same man ut be say mesilf to me. an wid that i considhered on ut a long while. do you iv feel that way sorr. 
i snore gently know that if mulvaney be uninterrupted he would go on. the clamour from the bivouac fire beat up to the star a the rival singer of the company be pit against each other. 
so i felt that way an a bad time ut be. wanst bein a fool i wint into the marry line more for the sake av spakin to our ould colour sergint shadd than for any thruck wid woman folk. i be a corp ril then rejuced aftherwards but a corp ril then. i ve get a photograft av mesilf to prove ut. you ll take a cup av tay wid u. sez shadd. i will that i sez tho tay be not my divarsion. 
twud be good for you if ut be sez ould mother shadd an she have ought to know for shadd in the ind av his service dhrank bung full each night. 
wid that i tuk off my glove there be pipe clay in thim so that they stud alone an pull up my chair lookin round at the china ornament an bit av thing in the shadds quarter. they be thing that belong to a man an no camp kit here to day an dishipated next. you re comfortable in this place sergint sez i. ti the wife that do ut boy sez he pointin the stem av his pipe to ould mother shadd an she smack the top av his bald head apon the compliment. that mane you want money sez she. 
an thin an thin whin the kettle be to be fill dinah come in my dinah her sleeve rowled up to the elbow an her hair in a winkin glory over her forehead the big blue eye beneath twinklin like star on a frosty night an the tread av her two foot light than waste paper from the colonel s basket in ord ly room whin ut s empty. bein but a shlip av a girl she go pink at seein me an i twist me moustache an look at a picture forninst the wall. niver show a woman that ye care the snap av a finger for her an begad she ll come bleatin to your boot heel. 
i suppose that s why you follow annie bragin till everybody in the marry quarter laugh at you say i remember that unhallow woo and cast off the disguise of drowsiness. 
i m layin down the gin ral theory av the attack say mulvaney drive his boot into the die fire. if you read the soldier s pocket book which niver any soldier read you ll see that there be exception. whin dinah be out av the door. an twas a tho the sunlight have shut too. mother av hiven sergint sez i but be that your daughter. i ve believe that way these eighteen year sez ould shadd his eye twinklin. but mr. shadd ha her own opinion like iv ry woman ti wid yours this time for a mericle sez mother shadd. thin why in the name av fortune do i niver see her before. sez i. bekaze you ve be thrapesin round wid the marry woman these three year past. she be a bite av a child till last year an she shoot up wid the spring sez ould mother shadd. i ll thrapese no more sez i. d you mane that. sez ould mother shadd lookin at me side way like a hen look at a hawk whin the chicken be runnin free. try me an tell sez i. wid that i pull on my glove dhrank off the tay an go out av the house a stiff a at gin ral p rade for well i know that dinah shadd s eye be in the small av my back out av the scullery window. faith. that be the only time i mourn i be not a cav lry man for the pride av the spur to jingle. 
i wint out to think an i do a powerful lot av thinkin but ut all come round to that shlip av a girl in the dot blue dhress wid the blue eye an the sparkil in them. thin i keep off canteen an i keep to the marry quarthers or near by on the chanst av meetin dinah. do i meet her. oh my time past do i not. wid a lump in my throat a big a my valise an my heart goin like a farrier s forge on a saturday morning. twas good day to ye miss dinah an good day t you corp ril for a week or two and divil a bite further could i get bekaze av the respect i have to that girl that i cud ha break betune finger an thumb. 
here i giggle a i recall the gigantic figure of dinah shadd when she hand me my shirt. 
ye may laugh grunt mulvaney. but i m speakin the trut an ti you that be in fault. dinah be a girl that wud ha take the imperiousness out av the duchess av clonmel in those day. flower hand foot av shoe air an the eye av the livin mornin she have that be my wife to day ould dinah and niver aught else than dinah shadd to me. 
twas after three week standin off an on an niver makin headway excipt through the eye that a little drummer boy grin in me face whin i have admonish him wid the buckle av my belt for riotin all over the place. an i m not the only wan that doesn t kape to barricks sez he. i tuk him by the scruff av his neck my heart be hang on a hair thrigger those day you will onderstand an out wid ut sez i or i ll lave no bone av you unbreakable. speak to dempsey sez he howlin. dempsey which. sez i ye unwashed limb av satan. av the bob tail dhragoons sez he. he s see her home from her aunt s house in the civil line four time this fortnight. child. sez i dhroppin him your tongue s strong than your body. go to your quarter. i m sorry i dhressed you down. 
at that i go four way to wanst huntin dempsey. i be mad to think that wid all my air among woman i shud ha be chat by a basin face fool av a cav lry man not fit to trust on a trunk. presintly i find him in our line the bobtail be quarter next u an a tallowy topheavy son av a she mule he be wid his big brass spur an his plastron on his epigastrons an all. but he niver flinch a hair. 
a word wid you dempsey sez i. you ve walk wid dinah shadd four time this fortnight go. 
what s that to you. sez he. i ll walk forty time more an forty on top av that ye shovel futted clod breakin infantry lance corp ril. 
before i cud gyard he have his gloved fist home on my cheek an down i go full sprawl. will that content you. sez he blowin on his knuckle for all the world like a scot grey orf cer. content. sez i. for your own sake man take off your spur peel your jackut an onglove. ti the beginnin av the overture. stand up. 
he stud all he know but he niver peel his jackut an his shoulder have no fair play. i be fightin for dinah shadd an that cut on my cheek. what hope have he forninst me. stand up sez i time an again whin he be beginnin to quarter the grind an gyard high an go large. this isn t ridin school i sez. o man stand up an let me get in at ye. but whin i saw he wud be runnin about i grup his shtock in my leave an his waist belt in my right an swing him clear to my right front head undher he hammerin my nose till the wind be knock out av him on the bare grind. stand up sez i or i ll kick your head into your chest. and i wud ha do ut too so ragin mad i be. 
my collar bone s bruk sez he. help me back to line. i ll walk wid her no more. so i help him back. 
and be his collar bone break. i ask for i fancy that only learoyd could neatly accomplish that terrible throw. 
he pitch on his leave shoulder point. ut be. next day the news be in both barricks an whin i meet dinah shadd wid a cheek on me like all the reg mintal tailor s sample there be no good mornin corp ril or aught else. an what have i do miss shadd sez i very bould plantin mesilf forninst her that ye should not pas the time of day. 
ye ve half kill rough rider dempsey sez she her dear blue eye fillin up. 
may be sez i. be he a friend av yours that saw ye home four time in the fortnight. 
yes sez she but her mouth be down at the corner. an an what s that to you. she sez. 
ask dempsey sez i purtendin to go away. 
do you fight for me then ye silly man. she sez tho she know ut all along. 
who else. sez i an i tuk wan pace to the front. 
i wasn t worth ut sez she fingerin in her apron. 
that s for me to say sez i. shall i say ut. 
yes sez she in a saint s whisper an at that i explain mesilf. and she tould me what ivry man that be a man an many that be a woman hear wanst in his life. 
but what make ye cry at startin dinah darlin. sez i. 
your your bloody cheek sez she duckin her little head down on my sash. i be on duty for the day. an whimperin like a sorrowful angil. 
now a man cud take that two way. i tuk ut a please me best an my first kiss wid ut. mother av innocence. but i kiss her on the tip av the nose an undher the eye. an a girl that let s a kiss come tumble way like that ha never be kiss before. take note av that sorr. thin we wint hand in hand to ould mother shadd like two little childher an she say twas no bad thing an ould shadd nod behind his pipe an dinah run away to her own room. that day i throd on rollin cloud. all earth be too small to hould me. begad i cud ha hike the sun out av the sky for a live coal to my pipe so magnificent i be. but i tuk recruities at squad drill instid an begin wid general battalion advance whin i shud ha be balance steppin them. eyah. that day. that day. 
a very long pause. well. say i. 
twas all wrong say mulvaney with an enormous sigh. an i know that ev ry bite av ut be my own foolishness. that night i tuk maybe the half av three pint not enough to turn the hair of a man in his natural sens. but i be more than half drink wid pure joy an that canteen beer be so much whisky to me. i can t tell how it come about but bekaze i have no think for anywan except dinah bekaze i hadn t slip her little white arm from my neck five minuts bekaze the breath of her kiss be not go from my mouth i must go through the marry line on my way to quarter an i must stay talkin to a red head mullingar heifer av a girl judy sheehy that be daughter to mother sheehy the wife of nick sheehy the canteen sergint the black curse av shielygh be on the whole brood that be above groun this day. 
an what be ye houldin your head that high for corp ril. sez judy. come in an thry a cup av tay she sez standin in the doorway. bein an ontrustable fool an thinkin av anything but tay i wint. 
mother s at canteen sez judy smoothin the hair av hers that be like red snake an lookin at me cornerways out av her green cat eye. ye will not mind corp ril. 
i can endure sez i. ould mother sheehy bein no divarsion av mine nor her daughter too. judy fetch the tea thing an put thim on the table leanin over me very close to get thim square. i dhrew back thinkin av dinah. 
be ut afraid you be av a girl alone. sez judy. 
no sez i. why should i be. 
that rest wid the girl sez judy dhrawin her chair next to mine. 
thin there let ut rest sez i. an thinkin i d be a trifle onpolite i sez the tay s not quite sweet enough for my taste. put your little finger in the cup judy. twill make ut necthar. 
what s necthar. sez she. 
somethin very sweet sez i. an for the sinful life av me i cud not help lookin at her out av the corner av my eye a i be use to look at a woman. 
go on wid ye corp ril sez she. you re a flirrt. 
on me sowl i m not sez i. 
then you re a cruel handsome man an that s bad sez she heave big sigh an lookin crossway. 
you know your own mind sez i. 
twud be good for me if i do not she sez. 
there s a dale to be say on both side av that sez i unthinkin. 
say your own part av ut then terence darlin sez she. for begad i m thinkin i ve say too much or too little for an honest girl an wid that she put her arm round my neck an kiss me. 
there s no more to be say afther that sez i kissin her back again oh the mane scutt that i be my head ringin wid dinah shadd. how doe ut come about sorr that when a man ha put the comether on wan woman he s sure bind to put it on another. ti the same thing at musketry. wan day ivry shoot go wide or into the bank an the next lay high lay low sight or snap ye can t get off the bull s eye for ten shot runnin. 
that only happen to a man who ha have a good deal of experience. he doe it without think i reply. 
thankin you for the complimint sorr ut may be so. but i m doubtful whether you mint ut for a complimint. hear now. i sit there wid judy on my knee tellin me all manner av nonsinse an only sayin yes an no when i d much good ha keep tongue betune teeth. an that be not an hour afther i have leave dinah. what i be thinkin av i cannot say. presintly quiet a a cat ould mother sheehy come in velvet dhrunk. she have her daughter s red hair but twas bald in patch an i cud see in her wicked ould face clear a lightnin what judy wud be twenty year to come. i be for jumpin up but judy niver move. 
terence ha promust mother sez she an the could sweat bruk out all over me. ould mother sheehy sit down of a heap an begin playin wid the cup. thin you re a well match pair she sez very thick. for he s the big rogue that iv spoil the queen s shoe leather an. 
i m off judy sez i. ye should not talk nonsinse to your mother. get her to bed girl. 
nonsinse. sez the ould woman prickin up her ear like a cat an grippin the table edge. twill be the most nonsinsical nonsinse for you ye grinnin badger if nonsinse ti. git clear you. i m goin to bed. 
i run out into the dhark my head in a stew an my heart sick but i have sinse enough to see that i d bring ut all on mysilf. it s this to pas the time av day to a panjandhrum av hell cat sez i. what i ve say an what i ve not say do not matther. judy an her dam will hould me for a promust man an dinah will give me the go an i desarve ut. i will go an get dhrunk sez i an forget about ut for ti plain i m not a marrin man. 
on my way to canteen i run against lascelles colour sergint that be av e comp ny a hard hard man wid a torment av a wife. you ve the head av a drown man on your shoulder sez he. an you re goin where you ll get a bad wan. come back sez he. let me go sez i. i ve throw my luck over the wall wid my own hand. then that s not the way to get ut back again sez he. have out wid your throuble ye fool bhoy. an i tould him how the matther be. 
he suck in his low lip. you ve be thrapped sez he. ju sheehy wud be the betther for a man s name to hers a soon a can. an we think ye d put the comether on her that s the natural vanity of the baste terence you re a big bear fool but you re not bad enough to marry into that comp ny. if you say anythin an for all your protestation i m sure ye do or do not which be bad eat ut all lie like the father of all lie but come out av ut free av judy. do i not know what ut be to marry a woman that be the very spit an image av judy whin she be young. i m gettin old an i ve larnt patience but you terence you d raise hand on judy an kill her in a year. never mind if dinah give you the go you ve desarved ut. never mind if the whole reg mint laugh you all day. get shut av judy an her mother. they can t dhrag you to church but if they do they ll dhrag you to hell. go back to your quarter and lie down sez he. thin over his shoulder you must ha do with thim. 
next day i wint to see dinah but there be no tucker in me a i walk. i know the throuble wud come soon enough widout any handlin av mine an i dread ut sore. 
i hear judy callin me but i hild straight on to the shadds quarthers an dinah wud ha kiss me but i put her back. 
whin all s say darlin sez i you can give ut me if ye will tho i misdoubt twill be so easy to come by then. 
i have scarce begin to put the explanation into shape before judy an her mother come to the door. i think there be a verandah but i m forgettin. 
will ye not step in. sez dinah pretty and polite though the shadds have no dealin s with the sheehys. ould mother shadd look up quick an she be the fust to see the throuble. for dinah be her daughter. 
i m press for time to day sez judy a bould a brass. an i ve only come for terence my promust man. ti strange to find him here the day afther the day. 
dinah look at me a though i have hit her an i answer straight. 
there be some nonsinse last night at the sheehys quarthers an judy s carryin on the joke darlin sez i. 
at the sheehys quarthers. sez dinah very slow an judy cut in wid. he be there from nine till ten dinah shadd an the betther half av that time i be sittin on his knee dinah shadd. ye may look and ye may look an ye may look me up an down but ye win t look away that terence be my promust man. terence darlin ti time for u to be comin home. 
dinah shadd niver say word to judy. ye leave me at half past eight she sez to me an i niver think that ye d leave me for judy promise or no promise. go back wid her you that have to be fetch by a girl. i m do with you sez she and she run into her own room her mother followin. so i be alone wid those two woman and at liberty to spake my sentiment. 
judy sheehy sez i if you make a fool av me betune the light you shall not do ut in the day. i niver promise you word or line. 
you lie sez ould mother sheehy an may ut choke you where you stand. she be far go in dhrink. 
an tho ut choke me where i stud i d not change sez i. go home judy. i take shame for a decent girl like you dhraggin your mother out bare head on this errand. hear now and have ut for an answer. i give my word to dinah shadd yesterday an more blame to me i be wid you last night talkin nonsinse but nothin more. you ve choose to thry to hould me on ut. i will not be hold thereby for anythin in the world. be that enough. 
judy wint pink all over. an i wish you joy av the perjury sez she duckin a curtsey. you ve lose a woman that would ha wear her hand to the bone for your pleasure. an deed terence ye be not thrapped. lascelles must ha speak plain to her. i be such a dinah be deed i be. ye ve lose a fool av a girl that ll niver look at you again an ye ve lose what he niver have your common honesty. if you manage your men a you manage your love makin small wondher they call you the bad corp ril in the comp ny. come away mother sez she. 
but divil a fut would the ould woman budge. d you hould by that. sez she peerin up under her thick gray eyebrow. 
ay an wud sez i tho dinah give me the go twinty time. i ll have no thruck with you or yours sez i. take your child away ye shameless woman. 
an be i shameless. sez she bringin her hand up above her head. thin what be you ye lyin schamin weak kneed dhirty souled son av a sutler. be i shameless. who put the open shame on me an my child that we shud go beggin through the line in the broad daylight for the break word of a man. double portion of my shame be on you terence mulvaney that think yourself so strong. by mary and the saint by blood and water an by ivry sorrow that come into the world since the beginnin the black blight fall on you and yours so that you may niver be free from pain for another when ut s not your own. may your heart bleed in your breast drop by drop wid all your friend laughin at the bleedin. strong you think yourself. may your strength be a curse to you to dhrive you into the divil s hand against your own will. clear eye you be. may your eye see clear ivry step av the dark path you take till the hot cindhers av hell put thim out. may the ragin dry thirst in my own ould bone go to you that you shall niver pas bottle full nor glass empty. god preserve the light av your onderstandin to you my jewel av a bhoy that ye may niver forget what you mint to be an do whin you re wallowin in the muck. may ye see the betther and follow the bad a long a there s breath in your body. an may ye die quick in a strange land watchin your death before ut take you an enable to stir hand or foot. 
i hear a scufflin in the room behind and thin dinah shadd s hand dhropped into mine like a rise leaf into a muddy road. 
the half av that i ll take sez she an more too if i can. go home ye silly talkin woman go home an confess. 
come away. come away. sez judy pullin her mother by the shawl. twas none av terence s fault. for the love av mary stop the talkin. 
an you. say ould mother sheehy spinnin round forninst dinah. will ye take the half av that man s load. stand off from him dinah shadd before he take you down too you that look to be a quarther master sergeant s wife in five year. you look too high child. you shall wash for the quarther master sergeant whin he plases to give you the job out av charity. but a privit s wife you shall be to the end an ivry sorrow of a privit s wife you shall know and niver a joy but wan that shall go from you like the run tide from a rock. the pain av bearin you shall know but niver the pleasure av give the breast. an you shall put away a man child into the common grind wid niver a priest to say a prayer over him an on that man child ye shall think ivry day av your life. think long dinah shadd for you ll niver have another tho you pray till your knee be bleedin. the mother av childher shall mock you behind your back when you re wring over the wash tub. you shall know what ut be to help a dhrunken husband home an see him go to the gyard room. will that plase you dinah shadd that win t be see talkin to my daughter. you shall talk to bad than judy before all s over. the sergints wife shall look down on you contemptuous daughter av a sergint an you shall cover ut all up wid a smile face when your heart s burstin. stand off av him dinah shadd for i ve put the black curse of shielygh upon him an his own mouth shall make ut good. 
she pitch forward on her head an begin foamin at the mouth. dinah shadd run out wid water an judy dhragged the ould woman into the verandah till she sit up. 
i m old an forlore she sez thremblin an cryin and ti like i say a dale more than i mane. 
when you re able to walk go say ould mother shadd. this house ha no place for the like av you that have curse my daughter. 
eyah. say the ould woman. hard word break no bone an dinah shadd ll kape the love av her husband till my bone be green corn. judy darlin i misremember what i come here for. can you lend u the bottom av a taycup av tay mr. shadd. 
but judy dhragged her off cryin a tho her heart wud break. an dinah shadd an i in ten minute we have forget ut all. 
then why do you remember it now. say i. 
be ut like i d forget. ivry word that wicked ould woman speak fell thrue in my life aftherwards an i cud ha stud ut all stud ut all excipt when my little shadd be bear. that be on the line av march three month afther the regiment be take with cholera. we be betune umballa an kalka thin an i be on picket. whin i come off duty the woman show me the child an ut turn on ut side an die a i look. we bury him by the road an father victor be a day s march behind wid the heavy baggage so the comp ny captain read a prayer. an since then i ve be a childless man an all else that ould mother sheehy put upon me an dinah shadd. what do you think sorr. 
i think a good deal but it seem good then to reach out for mulvaney s hand. the demonstration nearly cost me the use of three finger. whatever he know of his weakness mulvaney be entirely ignorant of his strength. 
but what do you think. he repeat a i be straighten out the crush finger. 
my reply be drown in yell and outcry from the next fire where ten men be shout for orth ri privit orth ri mistah or ther ri. deah boy cap n orth ri field marshal orth ri stanley you pen north o pop come ere to your own comp ny. and the cockney who have be delight another audience with recondite and rabelaisian yarn be shoot down among his admirer by the major force. 
you ve crumple my dress shirt orrid say he an i shan t sing no more to this ere bloomin drawin room. 
learoyd rouse by the confusion uncoil himself creep behind ortheris and sling him aloft on his shoulder. 
sing ye bloomin hummin bird. say he and ortheris beat time on learoyd s skull deliver himself in the raucous voice of the ratcliffe highway of this song. 
my girl she give me the go onst when i be a london lad an i go on the drink for a fortnight an then i go to the bad. the queen she give me a shillin to fight for er over the sea. but guv ment build me a fever trap an injia give me disease. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
i fire a shoot at a afghan the beggar e fire again an i lay on my bed with a ole in my ed. an miss the next campaign. i up with my gun at a burman who carry a bloomin dah but the cartridge stick and the bay nit bruk an all i get be the scar. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you aim at a afghan when you stand on the sky line clear. an don t you go for a burman if none o your friend be near. 
i serve my time for a corp ral an wet my stripe with pop for i go on the bend with a intimate friend an finish the night in the shop. i serve my time for a sergeant. the colonel e sez no. the most you ll see be a full c. b. [footnote. confine to barrack. ] an. very next night twas so. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you go for a corp ral unless your ed be clear. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
i ve taste the luck o the army in barrack an camp an clink an i lose my tip through the bloomin trip along o the woman an drink. i m down at the heel o my service an when i be lay on the shelf my very wust friend from begin to end by the blood of a mouse be myself. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
ay listen to our little man now singin an shoutin a tho trouble have niver touch him. d you remember when he go mad with the home sickness. say mulvaney recall a never to be forget season when ortheris wad through the deep water of affliction and behave abominably. but he s talkin bitter truth though. eyah. 
my very bad frind from beginnin to ind by the blood av a mouse be mesilf. 
when i wake i saw mulvaney the night dew gemming his moustache lean on his rifle at picket lonely a prometheus on his rock with i know not what vulture tear his liver. 
on greenhow hill. 
to love s low voice she lend a careless ear. her hand within his rosy finger lay a chill weight. she would not turn or hear. but with avert face go on her way. but when pale death all featureless and grim lift his bony hand and beckon hold out his cypress wreath she follow him and love be leave forlorn and wonder that she who for his bid would not stay at death s first whisper rise and go away. rival. 
ohe ahmed din. shafiz ullah ahoo. bahadur khan where be you. come out of the tent a i have do and fight against the english. don t kill your own kin. come out to me. 
the deserter from a native corp be crawl round the outskirt of the camp fire at interval and shout invitation to his old comrade. mislead by the rain and the darkness he come to the english wing of the camp and with his yelp and rifle practice disturb the men. they have be make road all day and be tire. 
ortheris be sleep at learoyd s foot. wot s all that. he say thickly. learoyd snore and a snide bullet rip it way through the tent wall. the men swear. it s that bloomin deserter from the aurangabadis say ortheris. git up some one an tell im e s come to the wrong shop. 
go to sleep little man say mulvaney who be steam near the door. i can t arise an expaytiate with him. ti rainin entrenchin tool outside. 
tain t because you bloomin can t. it s cause you bloomin win t ye long limp lousy lazy beggar you. ark to im owlin. 
wot s the good of argifying. put a bullet into the swine. e s keepin u awake. say another voice. 
a subaltern shout angrily and a drip sentry whine from the darkness. 
tain t no good sir. i can t see im. e s idin somewhere down ill. 
ortheris tumble out of his blanket. shall i try to get im sir. say he. 
no be the answer. lie down. i win t have the whole camp shoot all round the clock. tell him to go and pot his friend. 
ortheris consider for a moment. then put his head under the tent wall he call a a bus conductor call in a block igher up there. igher up. 
the men laugh and the laughter be carry down wind to the deserter who hear that he have make a mistake go off to worry his own regiment half a mile away. he be receive with shot. the aurangabadis be very angry with him for disgrace their colour. 
an that s all right say ortheris withdraw his head a he hear the hiccough of the sniders in the distance. s elp me gawd tho that man s not fit to live messin with my beauty sleep this way. 
go out and shoot him in the morning then say the subaltern incautiously. silence in the tent now. get your rest men. 
ortheris lay down with a happy little sigh and in two minute there be no sound except the rain on the canvas and the all embrace and elemental snore of learoyd. 
the camp lay on a bare ridge of the himalaya and for a week have be wait for a fly column to make connection. the nightly round of the deserter and his friend have become a nuisance. 
in the morning the men dry themselves in hot sunshine and clean their grimy accoutrement. the native regiment be to take it turn of road make that day while the old regiment loaf. 
i m goin to lay for a shoot at that man say ortheris when he have finish wash out his rifle. e come up the watercourse every evenin about five o clock. if we go and lie out on the north ill a bite this afternoon we ll get im. 
you re a bloodthirsty little mosquito say mulvaney blow blue cloud into the air. but i suppose i will have to come wid you. fwhere s jock. 
go out with the mix pickle cause e think isself a bloomin marksman say ortheris with scorn. 
the mix pickle be a detachment of pick shot generally employ in clear spur of hill when the enemy be too impertinent. this teach the young officer how to handle men and do not do the enemy much harm. mulvaney and ortheris stroll out of camp and pass the aurangabadis go to their road make. 
you ve get to sweat to day say ortheris genially. we re go to get your man. you didn t knock im out last night by any chance any of you. 
no. the pig go away mock u. i have one shoot at him say a private. he s my cousin and i ought to have clear our dishonour. but good luck to you. 
they go cautiously to the north hill ortheris lead because a he explain this be a long range show an i ve get to do it. his be an almost passionate devotion to his rifle which by barrack room report he be suppose to kiss every night before turn in. charge and scuffle he hold in contempt and when they be inevitable slip between mulvaney and learoyd bid them to fight for his skin a well a their own. they never fail him. he trot along quest like a hound on a break trail through the wood of the north hill. at last he be satisfy and throw himself down on the soft pine needle slope that command a clear view of the watercourse and a brown bare hillside beyond it. the tree make a scent darkness in which an army corp could have hide from the sun glare without. 
ere s the tail o the wood say ortheris. e s get to come up the watercourse cause it give im cover. we ll lay ere. tain t not arf so bloomin dusty neither. 
he bury his nose in a clump of scentless white violet. no one have come to tell the flower that the season of their strength be long past and they have bloom merrily in the twilight of the pine. 
this be something like he say luxuriously. wot a evinly clear drop for a bullet acrost. how much d you make it mulvaney. 
seven hunder. maybe a trifle le bekaze the air s so thin. 
wop. wop. wop. go a volley of musketry on the rear face of the north hill. 
curse them mix pickle firin at nothin. they ll scare arf the country. 
thry a sightin shoot in the middle of the row say mulvaney the man of many wile. there s a red rock yonder he ll be sure to pas. quick. 
ortheris run his sight up to six hundred yard and fire. the bullet throw up a feather of dust by a clump of gentian at the base of the rock. 
good enough. say ortheris snap the scale down. you snick your sight to mine or a little low. you re always firin high. but remember first shoot to me. o lordy. but it s a lovely afternoon. 
the noise of the fire grow loud and there be a tramp of men in the wood. the two lay very quiet for they know that the british soldier be desperately prone to fire at anything that move or call. then learoyd appear his tunic rip across the breast by a bullet look ashamed of himself. he fling down on the pine needle breathe in snort. 
one o them damn gardener o th pickle say he finger the rent. firin to th right flank when he know i be there. if i know who he be i d a rippen the hide offan him. look at ma tunic. 
that s the spishil trustability av a marksman. train him to hit a fly wid a stiddy rest at seven hunder an he loose on anythin he see or hear up to th mile. you re well out av that fancy firin gang jock. stay here. 
bin firin at the bloomin wind in the bloomin tree top say ortheris with a chuckle. i ll show you some firin late on. 
they wallow in the pine needle and the sun warm them where they lay. the mix pickle cease fire and return to camp and leave the wood to a few scar ape. the watercourse lift up it voice in the silence and talk foolishly to the rock. now and again the dull thump of a blast charge three mile away tell that the aurangabadis be in difficulty with their road make. the men smile a they listen and lay still soak in the warm leisure. presently learoyd between the whiff of his pipe. 
seem queer about im yonder desertin at all. 
e ll be a bloomin side queer when i ve do with im say ortheris. they be talk in whisper for the stillness of the wood and the desire of slaughter lay heavy upon them. 
i make no doubt he have his reason for desertin. but my faith. i make le doubt ivry man ha good reason for killin him say mulvaney. 
happen there be a lass tewed up wi it. men do more than more for th sake of a lass. 
they make most av u list. they ve no manner av right to make u desert. 
ah. they make u list or their father do say learoyd softly his helmet over his eye. ortheris s brow contract savagely. he be watch the valley. if it s a girl i ll shoot the beggar twice over an second time for bein a fool. you re blast sentimental all of a sudden. thinkin o your last near shave. 
nay lad. ah be but thinkin o what have happen. 
an fwhat ha happen ye lumberin child av calamity that you re low like a cow calf at the back av the pasture an suggestin invidious excuse for the man stanley s goin to kill. ye ll have to wait another hour yet little man. spit it out jock an bellow melojus to the moon. it take an earthquake or a bullet graze to fetch aught out av you. discourse don juan. the a moor av lotharius learoyd. stanley kape a rowlin rig mental eye on the valley. 
it s along o yon hill there say learoyd watch the bare sub himalayan spur that remind him of his yorkshire moor. he be speak more to himself than his fellow. ay say he rumbolds moor stand up ower skipton town an greenhow hill stand up ower pately brig. i reckon you ve never heeard tell o greenhow hill but yon bite o bare stuff if there be nobbut a white road windin be like ut. strangely like. moor an moor an moor wi never a tree for shelter an gray house wi flagstone roof and pewit cryin an a windhover goin to and fro just like these kite. and cold. a wind that cut you like a knife. you could tell greenhow hill folk by the red apple colour o their cheek an nose tip and their blue eye drive into pinpoint by the wind. miner mostly burrowin for lead i th hillside followin the trail of th ore vein same a a field rat. it be the rough minin i ever see. yo d come on a bite o creakin wood windlass like a well head an you be let down i th bight of a rope fendin yoursen off the side wi one hand carryin a candle stick in a lump o clay with t other an clickin hold of a rope with t other hand. 
an that s three of them say mulvaney. must be a good climate in those part. 
learoyd take no heed. 
an then yo come to a level where you creep on your hand and knee through a mile o windin drift an you come out into a cave place a big a leeds townhall with a engine pumpin water from workin s at go deep still. it s a queer country let alone minin for the hill be full of those natural cave an the river an the beck drop into what they call pot hole an come out again mile away. 
wot be you doin there. say ortheris. 
i be a young chap then an mostly go wi os leadin coal and lead ore. but at th time i m tellin on i be drivin the waggon team i th big sumph. i didn t belong to that country side by right. i go there because of a little difference at home an at fust i take up wi a rough lot. one night we d be drinkin an i must ha hed more than i could stand or happen th ale be none so good. though i them day by for god i never seed bad ale. he fling his arm over his head and grip a vast handful of white violet. nah say he i never seed the ale i could not drink the bacca i could not smoke nor the lass i could not kiss. well we mun have a race home the lot on u. i lose all th others an when i be climbin ower one of them wall build o loose stone i come down into the ditch stone and all an break my arm. not a i knawed much about it for i fell on th back of my head an be knock stupid like. an when i come to mysen it be mornin an i be lyin on the settle i jesse roantree s houseplace an liza roantree be settin sewin i ache all ovver and my mouth be like a lime kiln. she give me a drink out of a china mug wi gold letter a present from leeds a i look at many and many a time at after. yo re to lie still while dr. warbottom come because your arm s break and father ha send a lad to fetch him. he find yo when he be goin to work an carry you here on his back sez she. oa. sez i. an i shet my eye for i felt ashamed o mysen. father s go to his work these three hour an he say he d tell em to get somebody to drive the tram. the clock tick an a bee come in the house an they ring i my head like mill wheel. an she give me another drink an settle the pillow. eh but yo re young to be getten drink an such like but yo win t do it again will yo. noa sez i i wouldn t if she d not but stop they mill wheel clatterin. 
faith it s a good thing to be nurse by a woman when you re sick. say mulvaney. dir cheap at the price av twenty break head. 
ortheris turn to frown across the valley. he have not be nurse by many woman in his life. 
an then dr. warbottom come ridin up an jesse roantree along with im. he be a high larn doctor but he talk wi poor folk same a theirsens. what s ta big agaate on naa. he sing out. brekkin tha thick head. an he felt me all ovver. that s none break. tha nobbut knock a bite silly than ordinary an that s daaft eneaf. an soa he go on callin me all the name he could think on but settin my arm wi jesse s help a careful a could be. yo mun let the big oaf bide here a bite jesse he say when he hed strap me up an give me a dose o physic. an you an liza will tend him though he s scarcelins worth the trouble. an tha ll lose tha work sez he an tha ll be upon th sick club for a couple o month an more. doesn t tha think tha s a fool. 
but whin be a young man high or low the other av a fool i d like to know. say mulvaney. sure folly s the only safe way to wisdom for i ve thried it. 
wisdom. grin ortheris scan his comrade with uplift chin. you re bloomin solomon you two ain t you. 
learoyd go calmly on with a steady eye like an ox chew the cud. 
and that be how i come to know liza roantree. there s some tune a she use to sing aw she be always singin that fetch greenhow hill before my eye a fair a yon brow across there. and she would learn me to sing bass an i be to go to th chapel wi em where jesse and she lead the singin th old man playin the fiddle. he be a strange chap old jesse fair mad wi music an he make me promise to learn the big fiddle when my arm be good. it belong to him and it stand up in a big case alongside o th eight day clock but willie satterthwaite a play it in the chapel have getten deaf a a door post and it vex jesse a he have to rap him ower his head wi th fiddle stick to make him give ower sawin at th right time. 
but there be a black drop in it all an it be a man in a black coat that bring it. when th primitive methodist preacher come to greenhow he would always stop wi jesse roantree an he lay hold of me from th begin. it seem i wor a soul to be save and he mean to do it. at th same time i jealoused at he be keen o savin liza roantree s soul a well and i could ha kill him many a time. an this go on till one day i break out an borrow th brass for a drink from liza. after fower day i come back wi my tail between my leg just to see liza again. but jesse be at home an th preacher th reverend amos barraclough. liza say naught but a bite o red come into her face a be white of a regular thing. say jesse tryin his best to be civil nay lad it s like this. you ve getten to choose which way it s goin to be. i ll ha nobody across ma doorstep a go a drinkin an borrow my lass s money to spend i their drink. ho d tha tongue liza sez he when she want to put in a word at i be welcome to th brass and she be none afraid that i wouldn t pay it back. then the reverend cut in seein a jesse be losin his temper an they fair beat me among them. but it be liza a look an say naught a do more than either o their tongue an soa i conclude to get convert. 
fwhat. shout mulvaney. then check himself he say softly let be. let be. sure the bless virgin be the mother of all religion an most woman. an there s a dale av piety in a girl if the men would only let ut stay there. i d ha be convert myself under the circumstance. 
nay but pursue learoyd with a blush i mean it. 
ortheris laugh a loudly a he dare have regard to his business at the time. 
ay ortheris you may laugh but you didn t know yon preacher barraclough a little white face chap wi a voice a ud wile a bird off an a bush and a way o layin hold of folk a make them think they d never have a live man for a friend before. you never saw him an an you never seed liza roantree never seed liza roantree. happen it be a much liza a th preacher and her father but anyways they all mean it an i be fair sham o mysen an so i become what they call a change character. and when i think on it s hard to believe a yon chap go to prayer meetin s chapel and class meetin s be me. but i never have naught to say for mysen though there be a deal o shoutin and old sammy strother a be almost clemmed to death and double up with the rheumatic would sing out joyful. joyful. and at it be good to go up to heaven in a coal basket than down to hell i a coach an six. and he would put his poor old claw on my shoulder sayin doesn t tha feel it tha great lump. doesn t tha feel it. an sometimes i think i do and then again i think i didn t an how be that. 
the iverlastin nature av mankind say mulvaney. an furthermore i misdoubt you be build for the primitive methodians. they re a new corp anyways. i hold by the ould church for she s the mother of them all ay an the father too. i like her bekaze she s most remarkable regimental in her fitting. i may die in honolulu nova zambra or cape cayenne but wherever i die me bein fwhat i be an a priest handy i go under the same order an the same word an the same unction a tho the pope himself come down from the roof av st. peter s to see me off. there s neither high nor low nor broad nor deep nor betwixt nor between wid her an that s what i like. but mark you she s no manner av church for a wake man bekaze she take the body and the soul av him onless he ha his proper work to do. i remember when my father die that be three month comin to his grave. begad he d ha sell the shebeen above our head for ten minute quittance of purgathory. an he do all he could. that s why i say ut take a strong man to deal with the ould church an for that reason you ll find so many woman go there. an that same s a conundrum. 
wot s the use o worritin bout these thing. say ortheris. you re bind to find all out quick nor you want to any ow. he jerk the cartridge out of the breech block into the palm of his hand. ere s my chaplain he say and make the venomous black head bullet bow like a marionette. e s goin to teach a man all about which be which an wot s true after all before sundown. but wot appened after that jock. 
there be one thing they boggle at and almost shut th gate i my face for and that be my dog blast th only one save out o a litter o pup a be blow up when a keg o minin powder loose off in th store keeper s hut. they like his name no good than his business which be fightin every dog he come across. a rare good dog wi spot o black and pink on his face one ear go and lame o one side wi be drive in a basket through an iron roof a matter of half a mile. 
they say i mun give him up cause he be worldly and low. and would i let mysen be shut out of heaven for the sake on a dog. nay say i if th door isn t wide enough for th pair on u we ll stop outside for we ll none be part. and th preacher speak up for blast a have a likin for him from th first i reckon that be why i come to like th preacher and wouldn t hear o changin his name to bless a some o them want. so th pair on u become reg lar chapel member. but it s hard for a young chap o my build to cut trace from the world th flesh an the devil all uv a heap. yet i stick to it for a long time while th lad a use to stand about th town end an lean ower th bridge spittin into th beck o a sunday would call after me sitha learoyd when s ta bean to preach cause we re comin to hear tha. ho d tha jaw. he hasn t getten th white choaker on ta morn another lad would say and i have to double my fist hard i th bottom of my sunday coat and say to mysen if twere monday and i warn t a member o the primitive methodist i d leather all th lot of yond. that be th hard of all to know that i could fight and i mustn t fight. 
sympathetic grunt from mulvaney. 
so what wi singin practise and class meetin s and th big fiddle a he make me take between my knee i spend a deal o time i jesse roantree s house place. but often a i be there th preacher fare to me to go oftener and both th old man an th young woman be please to have him. he live i pately brig a be a goodish step off but he come. he come all the same. i like him a well or good a any man i d ever see i one way and yet i hat him wi all my heart i t other and we watch each other like cat and mouse but civil a you please for i be on my best behaviour and he be that fair and open that i be bind to be fair with him. rare good company he be if i hadn t want to wring his cliver little neck half of the time. often and often when he be goin from jesse s i d set him a bite on the road. 
see im ome you mean. say ortheris. 
ay. it s a way we have i yorkshire o seein friend off. you be a friend a i didn t want to come back and he didn t want me to come back neither and so we d walk together towards pately and then he d set me back again and there we d be wal two o clock i the mornin settin each other to an fro like a blast pair o pendulum twixt hill and valley long after th light have go out i liza s window a both on u have be look at pretend to watch the moon. 
ah. break in mulvaney ye d no chanst against the maraudin psalm singer. they ll take the air an the grace instid av the man nine time out av ten an they only find the blunder late the wimmen. 
that s just where yo re wrong say learoyd redden under the freckle tan of his cheek. i be th first wi liza an yo d think that be enough. but th parson be a steady gaited sort o chap and jesse be strong o his side and all th woman i the congregation din it to liza at she be fair fond to take up wi a wastrel ne er do weel like me a be scarcelins respectable an a fight dog at his heel. it be all very well for her to be do me good and save my soul but she must mind a she didn t do herself harm. they talk o rich folk bein stick up an genteel but for cast iron pride o respectability there s naught like poor chapel folk. it s a cold a th wind o greenhow hill ay and cold for twill never change. and now i come to think on it one at strange thing i know be at they couldn t abide th think o soldier. there s a vast o fightin i th bible and there s a deal of methodist i th army. but to hear chapel folk talk yo d think that soldierin be next door an t other side to hangin. i their meetin s all their talk be o fightin. when sammy strother be stick for summat to say in his prayer he d sing out th sword o th lord and o gideon. they be allus at it about puttin on th whole armour o righteousness an fightin the good fight o faith. and then atop o t all they hold a prayer meetin ower a young chap a want to list and nearly deafen him till he pick up his hat and fair run away. and they d tell tale in th sunday school o bad lad a have be thump and bray for bird nest o sunday and playin truant o week day and how they take to wrestlin dog fightin rabbit runnin and drinkin till at last a if twere a hepitaph on a gravestone they damn him across th moor wi an then he go and list for a soldier an they d all fetch a deep breath and throw up their eye like a hen drinkin. 
fwhy be ut. say mulvaney bring down his hand on his thigh with a crack. in the name av god fwhy be ut. i ve see ut tu. they cheat an they swindle an they lie an they slander an fifty thing fifty time bad. but the last an the bad by their reckonin be to serve the widdy honest. it s like the talk av childher seein thing all round. 
plucky lot of fightin good fight of whatsername they d do if we didn t see they have a quiet place to fight in. and such fightin a theirs be. cat on the tile. t other callin to which to come on. i d give a month s pay to get some o them broad back beggar in london sweatin through a day s road makin an a night s rain. they d carry on a deal afterwards same a we re suppose to carry on. i ve bin turn out of a measly arf license pub down lambeth way full o greasy kebmen fore now say ortheris with an oath. 
maybe you be dhrunk say mulvaney soothingly. 
bad nor that. the forders be drink. i be wearin the queen s uniform. 
i d no particular think to be a soldier i them day say learoyd still keep his eye on the bare hill opposite but this sort o talk put it i my head. they be so good th chapel folk that they tumble ower t other side. but i stick to it for liza s sake specially a she be learn me to sing the bass part in a horotorio a jesse be gettin up. she sing like a throstle hersen and we have practisin s night after night for a matter of three month. 
i know what a horotorio be say ortheris pertly. it s a sort of chaplain s sing song word all out of the bible and hullabaloojah chorus. 
most greenhow hill folk play some instrument or t other an they all sing so you might have hear them mile away and they be so please wi the noise they make they didn t fair to want anybody to listen. the preacher sing high second when he wasn t playin the flute an they set me a hadn t get far with big fiddle again willie satterthwaite to jog his elbow when he have to get a gate playin. old jesse be happy if ever a man be for he be th conductor an th first fiddle an th leadin singer beatin time wi his fiddle stick till at time he d rap with it on the table and cry out now you mun all stop. it s my turn. and he d face round to his front fair sweat wi pride to sing th tenor solo. but he be grand i th chorus waggin his head fling his arm round like a windmill and singin hisself black in the face. a rare singer be jesse. 
yo see i be not o much account wi em all exceptin to liza roantree and i have a deal o time settin quiet at meeting and horotorio practise to hearken their talk and if it be strange to me at beginnin it get strange still at after when i be shut on it and could study what it mean. 
just after th horotorios come off liza a have allus be weakly like be take very bad. i walk dr. warbottom s horse up and down a deal of time while he be inside where they wouldn t let me go though i fair ache to see her. 
she ll be good i noo lad good i noo he use to say. tha mun ha patience. then they say if i be quiet i might go in and th reverend amos barraclough use to read to her lyin prop up among th pillow. then she begin to mend a bite and they let me carry her on to th settle and when it get warm again she go about same a afore. th preacher and me and blast be a deal together i them day and i one way we be rare good comrade. but i could ha stretch him time and again with a good will. i mind one day he say he would like to go down into th bowel o th earth and see how th lord have build th framework o th everlastin hill. he be one of them chap a have a gift o sayin thing. they roll off the tip of his clever tongue same a mulvaney here a would ha make a rare good preacher if he have nobbut give his mind to it. i lend him a suit o miner s kit a almost bury th little man and his white face down i th coat collar and hat flap look like the face of a boggart and he cower down i th bottom o the waggon. i be drivin a tram a lead up a bite of an incline up to th cave where the engine be pumpin and where th ore be bring up and put into th waggon a go down o themselves me puttin th brake on and th horse a trottin after. long a it be daylight we be good friend but when we get fair into th dark and could nobbut see th day shinin at the hole like a lamp at a street end i feel downright wicked. ma religion drop all away from me when i look back at him a be always comin between me and liza. the talk be at they be to be wed when she get good an i couldn t get her to say yes or nay to it. he begin to sing a hymn in his thin voice and i come out wi a chorus that be all cussin an swearin at my horse an i begin to know how i hat him. he be such a little chap too. i could drop him wi one hand down garstang s copper hole a place where th beck slither ower th edge on a rock and fell wi a bite of a whisper into a pit a no rope i greenhow could plump. 
again learoyd root up the innocent violet. ay he should see th bowel o th earth an never naught else. i could take him a mile or two along th drift and leave him wi his candle douse to cry hallelujah wi none to hear him and say amen. i be to lead him down th ladder way to th drift where jesse roantree be workin and why shouldn t he slip on th ladder wi my foot on his finger till they loose grip and i put him down wi my heel. if i go fust down th ladder i could click hold on him and chuck him over my head so a he should go squshin down the shaft breakin his bone at ev ry timberin a bill appleton do when he be fresh and hadn t a bone leave when he work to th bottom. niver a blast leg to walk from pately. niver an arm to put round liza roantree s waist. niver no more niver no more. 
the thick lip curl back over the yellow teeth and that flush face be not pretty to look upon. mulvaney nod sympathy and ortheris move by his comrade s passion bring up the rifle to his shoulder and search the hillside for his quarry mutter ribaldry about a sparrow a spout and a thunder storm. the voice of the watercourse supply the necessary small talk till learoyd pick up his story. 
but it s none so easy to kill a man like yon. when i d give up my horse to th lad a take my place and i be showin th preacher th workin s shoutin into his ear across th clang o th pumpin engine i saw he be afraid o naught. and when the lamplight show his black eye i could feel a he be masterin me again. i be no good nor blast chain up short and growlin i the depth of him while a strange dog go safe past. 
th art a coward and a fool i say to mysen. an i wrestle i my mind again him till when we come to garstang s copper hole i lay hold o the preacher and lift him up over my head and hold him into the dark on it. now lad i say it s to be one or t other on u thee or me for liza roantree. why isn t thee afraid for thysen. i say for he be still i my arm a a sack. nay. i m but afraid for thee my poor lad a know naught say he. i set him down on th edge an th beck run still an there be no more buzzin in my head like when th bee come through th window o jesse s house. what dost tha mean. say i. 
i ve often think a thou ought to know say he but twas hard to tell thee. liza roantree s for neither on u nor for nobody o this earth. dr. warbottom say and he know her and her mother before her that she be in a decline and she cannot live six month long. he s know it for many a day. steady john. steady. say he. and that weak little man pull me further back and set me again him and talk it all over quiet and still me turnin a bunch o candle in my hand and count them ower and ower again a i listen. a deal on it be th regular preachin talk but there be a vast lot a make me begin to think a he be more of a man than i d ever give him credit for till i be cut a deep for him a i be for mysen. 
six candle we have and we crawl and climb all that day while they last and i say to mysen liza roantree hasn t six month to live. and when we come into th daylight again we be like dead men to look at an blast come behind u without so much a waggin his tail. when i saw liza again she look at me a minute and say who s tell tha. for i see tha know. and she try to smile a she kiss me and i fair break down. 
yo see i be a young chap i them day and have see naught o life let alone death a be allus a waitin. she tell me a dr. warbottom say a greenhow air be too keen and they be goin to bradford to jesse s brother david a work i a mill and i mun hold up like a man and a christian and she d pray for me. well and they go away and the preacher that same back end o th year be appoint to another circuit a they call it and i be leave alone on greenhow hill. 
i try and i try hard to stick to th chapel but tweren t th same thing at after. i hadn t liza s voice to follow i th singin nor her eye a shinin acrost their head. and i th class meeting they say a i mun have some experience to tell and i hadn t a word to say for mysen. 
blast and me mop a good deal and happen we didn t behave ourselves over well for they drop u and wonder however they d come to take u up. i can t tell how we get through th time while i th winter i give up my job and go to bradford. old jesse be at th door o th house in a long street o little house. he d be sendin th child way a be clatterin their clog in th causeway for she be asleep. 
be it thee. he say. but you re not to see her. i ll none have her waken for a nowt like thee. she s goin fast and she mun go in peace. thou lt never be good for naught i th world and a long a thou life thou ll never play the big fiddle. get away lad get away. so he shut the door softly i my face. 
nobody never make jesse my master but it seem to me he be about right and i go away into the town and knock up against a recruit sergeant. the old tale o th chapel folk come buzzin into my head. i be to get away and this be th regular road for the like o me. i list there and then take th widow s shillin and have a bunch o ribbon pin i my hat. 
but next day i find my way to david roantree s door and jesse come to open it. say he thou s come back again wi th devil s colour flyin thy true colour a i always tell thee. 
but i beg and pray of him to let me see her nobbut to say good bye till a woman call down th stairway she say john learoyd s to come up. th old man shift aside in a flash and lay his hand on my arm quite gentle like. but thou lt be quiet john say he for she s rare and weak. thou be allus a good lad. 
her eye be all alive wi light and her hair be thick on the pillow round her but her cheek be thin thin to frighten a man that s strong. nay father yo mayn t say th devil s colour. them ribbon be pretty. an she hold out her hand for th hat an she put all straight a a woman will wi ribbon. nay but what they re pretty she say. eh but i d ha like to see thee i thy red coat john for thou be allus my own lad my very own lad and none else. 
she lift up her arm and they come round my neck i a gentle grip and they slack away and she seem faint. now yo mun get away lad say jesse and i pick up my hat and i come downstairs. 
th recruit sergeant be waitin for me at th corner public house. yo ve see your sweetheart. say he. yes i ve see her say i. well we ll have a quart now and you ll do your best to forget her say he bein one o them smart bustlin chap. ay sergeant say i. forget her. and i ve be forgettin her ever since. 
he throw away the wilt clump of white violet a he speak. ortheris suddenly rise to his knee his rifle at his shoulder and peer across the valley in the clear afternoon light. his chin cuddle the stock and there be a twitch of the muscle of the right cheek a he sight. private stanley ortheris be engage on his business. a speck of white crawl up the watercourse. 
see that beggar. get im. 
seven hundred yard away and a full two hundred down the hillside the deserter of the aurangabadis pitch forward roll down a red rock and lay very still with his face in a clump of blue gentian while a big raven flap out of the pine wood to make investigation. 
that s a clean shoot little man say mulvaney. 
learoyd thoughtfully watch the smoke clear away. 
happen there be a lass tewed up wi him too say he. 
ortheris do not reply. he be star across the valley with the smile of the artist who look on the complete work. 
the man who be. 
the earth give up her dead that tide into our camp he come and say his say and go his way and leave our heart aflame. 
keep tally on the gun butt score the vengeance we must take when god shall bring full reckon for our dead comrade s sake. ballad. 
let it be clearly understand that the russian be a delightful person till he tuck in his shirt. a an oriental he be charm. it be only when he insist upon be treat a the most easterly of western people instead of the most westerly of easterns that he become a racial anomaly extremely difficult to handle. the host never know which side of his nature be go to turn up next. 
dirkovitch be a russian a russian of the russian who appear to get his bread by serve the czar a an officer in a cossack regiment and correspond for a russian newspaper with a name that be never twice alike. he be a handsome young oriental fond of wander through unexplored portion of the earth and he arrive in india from nowhere in particular. at least no live man could ascertain whether it be by way of balkh badakshan chitral beluchistan or nepaul or anywhere else. the indian government be in an unusually affable mood give order that he be to be civilly treat and show everything that be to be see. so he drift talk bad english and bad french from one city to another till he foregather with her majesty s white hussar in the city of peshawur which stand at the mouth of that narrow swordcut in the hill that men call the khyber pas. he be undoubtedly an officer and he be decorate after the manner of the russian with little enamel cross and he could talk and. though this ha nothing to do with his merit. he have be give up a a hopeless task or cask by the black tyrone who individually and collectively with hot whisky and honey mull brandy and mix spirit of every kind have strive in all hospitality to make him drink. and when the black tyrone who be exclusively irish fail to disturb the peace of head of a foreigner that foreigner be certain to be a superior man. 
the white hussar be a conscientious in choose their wine a in charge the enemy. all that they possess include some wondrous brandy be place at the absolute disposition of dirkovitch and he enjoy himself hugely even more than among the black tyrones. 
but he remain distressingly european through it all. the white hussar be my dear true friend fellow soldier glorious and brother inseparable. he would unburden himself by the hour on the glorious future that await the combine arm of england and russia when their heart and their territory should run side by side and the great mission of civilise asia should begin. that be unsatisfactory because asia be not go to be civilise after the method of the west. there be too much asia and she be too old. you cannot reform a lady of many lover and asia ha be insatiable in her flirtation aforetime. she will never attend sunday school or learn to vote save with sword for ticket. 
dirkovitch know this a well a any one else but it suit him to talk special correspondently and to make himself a genial a he could. now and then he volunteer a little a very little information about his own sotnia of cossack leave apparently to look after themselves somewhere at the back of beyond. he have do rough work in central asia and have see rather more help yourself fight than most men of his year. but he be careful never to betray his superiority and more than careful to praise on all occasion the appearance drill uniform and organisation of her majesty s white hussar. and indeed they be a regiment to be admire. when lady durgan widow of the late sir john durgan arrive in their station and after a short time have be propose to by every single man at mess she put the public sentiment very neatly when she explain that they be all so nice that unless she could marry them all include the colonel and some major already marry she be not go to content herself with one hussar. wherefore she wed a little man in a rifle regiment be by nature contradictious. and the white hussar be go to wear crape on their arm but compromise by attend the wed in full force and line the aisle with unutterable reproach. she have jilt them all from basset holmer the senior captain to little mildred the junior subaltern who could have give her four thousand a year and a title. 
the only person who do not share the general regard for the white hussar be a few thousand gentleman of jewish extraction who live across the border and answer to the name of pathan. they have once meet the regiment officially and for something le than twenty minute but the interview which be complicate with many casualty have fill them with prejudice. they even call the white hussar child of the devil and son of person whom it would be perfectly impossible to meet in decent society. yet they be not above make their aversion fill their money belt. the regiment possess carbine beautiful martini henri carbine that would lob a bullet into an enemy s camp at one thousand yard and be even handy than the long rifle. therefore they be covet all along the border and since demand inevitably breed supply they be supply at the risk of life and limb for exactly their weight in coin silver seven and one half pound weight of rupee or sixteen pound sterling reckon the rupee at par. they be steal at night by snaky haired thief who crawl on their stomach under the nose of the sentry. they disappear mysteriously from lock arm rack and in the hot weather when all the barrack door and window be open they vanish like puff of their own smoke. the border people desire them for family vendetta and contingency. but in the long cold night of the northern indian winter they be steal most extensively. the traffic of murder be lively among the hill at that season and price rule high. the regimental guard be first double and then treble. a trooper doe not much care if he lose a weapon government must make it good but he deeply resent the loss of his sleep. the regiment grow very angry and one rifle thief bear the visible mark of their anger upon him to this hour. that incident stop the burglary for a time and the guard be reduce accordingly and the regiment devote itself to polo with unexpected result. for it beat by two goal to one that very terrible polo corp the lushkar light horse though the latter have four pony apiece for a short hour s fight a well a a native officer who play like a lambent flame across the grind. 
they give a dinner to celebrate the event. the lushkar team come and dirkovitch come in the full full uniform of a cossack officer which be a full a a dress gown and be introduce to the lushkars and open his eye a he regard. they be light men than the hussar and they carry themselves with the swing that be the peculiar right of the punjab frontier force and all irregular horse. like everything else in the service it ha to be learn but unlike many thing it be never forget and remain on the body till death. 
the great beam roof mess room of the white hussar be a sight to be remember. all the mess plate be out on the long table the same table that have serve up the body of five officer after a forget fight long and long ago the dingy batter standard face the door of entrance clump of winter rose lay between the silver candlestick and the portrait of eminent officer decease look down on their successor from between the head of sambhur nilghai markhor and pride of all the mess two grin snow leopard that have cost basset holmer four month leave that he might have spend in england instead of on the road to thibet and the daily risk of his life by ledge snow slide and grassy slope. 
the servant in spotless white muslin and the crest of their regiment on the brow of their turban wait behind their master who be clothe in the scarlet and gold of the white hussar and the cream and silver of the lushkar light horse. dirkovitch s dull green uniform be the only dark spot at the board but his big onyx eye make up for it. he be fraternise effusively with the captain of the lushkar team who be wonder how many of dirkovitch s cossack his own dark wiry down countryman could account for in a fair charge. but one doe not speak of these thing openly. 
the talk rise high and high and the regimental band play between the course a be the immemorial custom till all tongue cease for a moment with the removal of the dinner slip and the first toast of obligation when an officer rise say mr. vice the queen and little mildred from the bottom of the table answer the queen god bless her and the big spur clank a the big men heave themselves up and drink the queen upon whose pay they be falsely suppose to settle their mess bill. that sacrament of the mess never grow old and never cease to bring a lump into the throat of the listener wherever he be by sea or by land. dirkovitch rise with his brother glorious but he could not understand. no one but an officer can tell what the toast mean. and the bulk have more sentiment than comprehension. immediately after the little silence that follow on the ceremony there enter the native officer who have play for the lushkar team. he could not of course eat with the mess but he come in at dessert all six foot of him with the blue and silver turban atop and the big black boot below. the mess rise joyously a he thrust forward the hilt of his sabre in token of fealty for the colonel of the white hussar to touch and drop into a vacant chair amid shout of. ring ho hira singh. which be translate mean go in and win. do i whack you over the knee old man. ressaidar sahib what the devil make you play that kick pig of a pony in the last ten minute. shabash ressaidar sahib. then the voice of the colonel the health of ressaidar hira singh. 
after the shout have die away hira singh rise to reply for he be the cadet of a royal house the son of a king s son and know what be due on these occasion. thus he speak in the vernacular. colonel sahib and officer of this regiment. much honour have you do me. this will i remember. we come down from afar to play you. but we be beat. no fault of yours ressaidar sahib. play on our own grind y know. your pony be cramp from the railway. don t apologise. therefore perhaps we will come again if it be so ordain. hear. hear. hear indeed. bravo. hsh. then we will play you afresh. happy to meet you. till there be leave no foot upon our pony. thus far for sport. he drop one hand on his sword hilt and his eye wander to dirkovitch loll back in his chair. but if by the will of god there arise any other game which be not the polo game then be assure colonel sahib and officer that we will play it out side by side though they again his eye seek dirkovitch though they i say have fifty pony to our one horse. and with a deep mouth ring ho. that sound like a musket butt on flagstone he sit down amid leap glass. 
dirkovitch who have devote himself steadily to the brandy the terrible brandy aforementioned do not understand nor do the expurgate translation offer to him at all convey the point. decidedly hira singh s be the speech of the even and the clamour might have continue to the dawn have it not be break by the noise of a shoot without that send every man feel at his defenceless leave side. then there be a scuffle and a yell of pain. 
carbine steal again. say the adjutant calmly sink back in his chair. this come of reduce the guard. i hope the sentry have kill him. 
the foot of arm men pound on the verandah flag and it be a though something be be drag. 
why don t they put him in the cell till the morning. say the colonel testily. see if they ve damage him sergeant. 
the mess sergeant flee out into the darkness and return with two trooper and a corporal all very much perplex. 
catch a man stealin carbine sir say the corporal. leastways e be crawlin towards the barricks sir past the main road sentry an the sentry e sez sir. 
the limp heap of rag uphold by the three men groan. never be see so destitute and demoralise an afghan. he be turbanless shoeless cake with dirt and all but dead with rough handle. hira singh start slightly at the sound of the man s pain. dirkovitch take another glass of brandy. 
what doe the sentry say. say the colonel. 
sez e speak english sir say the corporal. 
so you bring him into mess instead of hand him over to the sergeant. if he speak all the tongue of the pentecost you ve no business. 
again the bundle groan and mutter. little mildred have rise from his place to inspect. he jump back a though he have be shoot. 
perhaps it would be good sir to send the men away say he to the colonel for he be a much privilege subaltern. he put his arm round the ragbound horror a he speak and drop him into a chair. it may not have be explain that the littleness of mildred lay in his be six foot four and big in proportion. the corporal see that an officer be dispose to look after the capture and that the colonel s eye be begin to blaze promptly remove himself and his men. the mess be leave alone with the carbine thief who lay his head on the table and weep bitterly hopelessly and inconsolably a little child weep. 
hira singh leap to his foot. colonel sahib say he that man be no afghan for they weep ai. ai. nor be he of hindustan for they weep oh. ho. he weep after the fashion of the white men who say ow. ow. 
now where the dickens do you get that knowledge hira singh. say the captain of the lushkar team. 
hear him. say hira singh simply point at the crumple figure that weep a though it would never cease. 
he say my god. say little mildred. i hear him say it. 
the colonel and the mess room look at the man in silence. it be a horrible thing to hear a man cry. a woman can sob from the top of her palate or her lip or anywhere else but a man must cry from his diaphragm and it rend him to piece. 
poor devil. say the colonel cough tremendously. we ought to send him to hospital. he s be man handle. 
now the adjutant love his carbine. they be to him a his grandchild the men stand in the first place. he grunt rebelliously. i can understand an afghan steal because he s build that way. but i can t understand his cry. that make it bad. 
the brandy must have affect dirkovitch for he lay back in his chair and star at the ceiling. there be nothing special in the ceiling beyond a shadow a of a huge black coffin. owe to some peculiarity in the construction of the mess room this shadow be always throw when the candle be light. it never disturb the digestion of the white hussar. they be in fact rather proud of it. 
be he go to cry all night. say the colonel or be we suppose to sit up with little mildred s guest until he feel good. 
the man in the chair throw up his head and star at the mess. oh my god. he say and every soul in the mess rise to his foot. then the lushkar captain do a deed for which he ought to have be give the victoria cross distinguish gallantry in a fight against overwhelm curiosity. he pick up his team with his eye a the host pick up the lady at the opportune moment and pause only by the colonel s chair to say this isn t our affair you know sir lead them into the verandah and the garden. hira singh be the last to go and he look at dirkovitch. but dirkovitch have depart into a brandy paradise of his own. his lip move without sound and he be study the coffin on the ceiling. 
white white all over say basset holmer the adjutant. what a pernicious renegade he must be. i wonder where he come from. 
the colonel shake the man gently by the arm and who be you. say he. 
there be no answer. the man star round the mess room and smile in the colonel s face. little mildred who be always more of a woman than a man till boot and saddle be sound repeat the question in a voice that would have draw confidence from a geyser. the man only smile. dirkovitch at the far end of the table slide gently from his chair to the floor. 
no son of adam in this present imperfect world can mix the hussar champagne with the hussar brandy by five and eight glass of each without remember the pit whence he be digged and descend thither. the band begin to play the tune with which the white hussar from the date of their formation have conclude all their function. they would sooner be disband than abandon that tune. it be a part of their system. the man straighten himself in his chair and drum on the table with his finger. 
i don t see why we should entertain lunatic say the colonel. call a guard and send him off to the cell. we ll look into the business in the morning. give him a glass of wine first though. 
little mildred fill a sherry glass with the brandy and thrust it over to the man. he drink and the tune rise loud and he straighten himself yet more. then he put out his long taloned hand to a piece of plate opposite and finger it lovingly. there be a mystery connect with that piece of plate in the shape of a spring which convert what be a seven branch candlestick three spring on each side and one in the middle into a sort of wheel speak candelabrum. he find the spring press it and laugh weakly. he rise from his chair and inspect a picture on the wall then move on to another picture the mess watch him without a word. when he come to the mantelpiece he shake his head and seem distress. a piece of plate represent a mount hussar in full uniform catch his eye. he point to it and then to the mantelpiece with inquiry in his eye. 
what be it oh what be it. say little mildred. then a a mother might speak to a child that be a horse. yes a horse. 
very slowly come the answer in a thick passionless guttural yes i have see. but where be the horse. 
you could have hear the heart of the mess beat a the men draw back to give the strange full room in his wandering. there be no question of call the guard. 
again he speak very slowly where be our horse. 
there be but one horse in the white hussar and his portrait hang outside the door of the mess room. he be the piebald drum horse the king of the regimental band that serve the regiment for seven and thirty year and in the end be shoot for old age. half the mess tear the thing down from it place and thrust it into the man s hand. he place it above the mantel piece it clatter on the ledge a his poor hand drop it and he stagger towards the bottom of the table fall into mildred s chair. then all the men speak to one another something after this fashion the drum horse hasn t hang over the mantelpiece since. how doe he know. mildred go and speak to him again. colonel what be you go to do. oh dry up and give the poor devil a chance to pull himself together. it isn t possible anyhow. the man s a lunatic. 
little mildred stand at the colonel s side talk in his ear. will you be good enough to take your seat please gentleman. he say and the mess drop into the chair. only dirkovitch s seat next to little mildred s be blank and little mildred himself have find hira singh s place. the wide eye mess sergeant fill the glass in deep silence. once more the colonel rise but his hand shake and the port spill on the table a he look straight at the man in little mildred s chair and say hoarsely mr. vice the queen. there be a little pause but the man spring to his foot and answer without hesitation the queen god bless her. and a he empty the thin glass he snap the shank between his finger. 
long and long ago when the empress of india be a young woman and there be no unclean ideal in the land it be the custom of a few mess to drink the queen s toast in break glass to the vast delight of the mess contractor. the custom be now dead because there be nothing to break anything for except now and again the word of a government and that ha be break already. 
that settle it say the colonel with a gasp. he s not a sergeant. what in the world be he. 
the entire mess echo the word and the volley of question would have scar any man. it be no wonder that the rag filthy invader could only smile and shake his head. 
from under the table calm and smile rise dirkovitch who have be rouse from healthful slumber by foot upon his body. by the side of the man he rise and the man shriek and grovel. it be a horrible sight come so swiftly upon the pride and glory of the toast that have bring the stray wit together. 
dirkovitch make no offer to raise him but little mildred heave him up in an instant. it be not good that a gentleman who can answer to the queen s toast should lie at the foot of a subaltern of cossack. 
the hasty action tear the wretch s upper clothe nearly to the waist and his body be seam with dry black scar. there be only one weapon in the world that cut. in parallel line and it be neither the cane nor the cat. dirkovitch saw the mark and the pupil of his eye dilate. also his face change. he say something that sound like shto ve takete and the man fawn answer chetyre. 
what s that. say everybody together. 
his number. that be number four you know. dirkovitch speak very thickly. 
what ha a queen s officer to do with a qualify number. say the colonel and an unpleasant growl run round the table. 
how can i tell. say the affable oriental with a sweet smile. he be a how you have it. escape run a way from over there. he nod towards the darkness of the night. 
speak to him if he ll answer you and speak to him gently say little mildred settle the man in a chair. it seem most improper to all present that dirkovitch should sip brandy a he talk in purr spit russian to the creature who answer so feebly and with such evident dread. but since dirkovitch appear to understand no one say a word. all breathe heavily lean forward in the long gap of the conversation. the next time that they have no engagement on hand the white hussar intend to go to st. petersburg in a body to learn russian. 
he doe not know how many year ago say dirkovitch face the mess but he say it be very long ago in a war. i think that there be an accident. he say he be of this glorious and distinguish regiment in the war. 
the roll. the roll. holmer get the roll. say little mildred and the adjutant dash off bare head to the orderly room where the muster roll of the regiment be keep. he return just in time to hear dirkovitch conclude therefore my dear friend i be most sorry to say there be an accident which would have be reparable if he have apologise to that our colonel which he have insult. 
then follow another growl which the colonel try to beat down. the mess be in no mood just then to weigh insult to russian colonel. 
he doe not remember but i think that there be an accident and so he be not exchange among the prisoner but he be send to another place how do you say. the country. so he say he come here. he doe not know how he come. eh. he be at chepany the man catch the word nod and shiver at zhigansk and irkutsk. i cannot understand how he escape. he say too that he be in the forest for many year but how many year he ha forget that with many thing. it be an accident. do because he do not apologise to that our colonel. ah. 
instead of echo dirkovitch s sigh of regret it be sad to record that the white hussar livelily exhibit un christian delight and other emotion hardly restrain by their sense of hospitality. holmer fling the fray and yellow regimental roll on the table and the men fling themselves at these. 
steady. fifty six fifty five fifty four say holmer. here we be. lieutenant austin limmason. miss. that be before sebastopol. what an infernal shame. insult one of their colonel and be quietly ship off. thirty year of his life wipe out. 
but he never apologise. say he d see him damn first chorus the mess. 
poor chap. i suppose he never have the chance afterwards. how do he come here. say the colonel. 
the dingy heap in the chair could give no answer. 
do you know who you be. 
it laugh weakly. 
do you know that you be limmason lieutenant limmason of the white hussar. 
swiftly a a shoot come the answer in a slightly surprise tone yes i m limmason of course. the light die out in his eye and the man collapse watch every motion of dirkovitch with terror. a flight from siberia may fix a few elementary fact in the mind but it doe not seem to lead to continuity of think. the man could not explain how like a home pigeon he have find his way to his own old mess again. of what he have suffer or see he know nothing. he cringe before dirkovitch a instinctively a he have press the spring of the candlestick seek the picture of the drum horse and answer to the toast of the queen. the rest be a blank that the dread russian tongue could only in part remove. his head bow on his breast and he giggle and cower alternately. 
the devil that live in the brandy prompt dirkovitch at this extremely inopportune moment to make a speech. he rise sway slightly grip the table edge while his eye glow like opal and begin. 
fellow soldier glorious true friend and hospitables. it be an accident and deplorable most deplorable. here he smile sweetly all round the mess. but you will think of this little little thing. so little be it not. the czar. posh. i slap my finger i snap my finger at him. do i believe in him. no. but in u slav who ha do nothing him i believe. seventy how much million people that have do nothing not one thing. posh. napoleon be an episode. he bang a hand on the table. hear you old people we have do nothing in the world out here. all our work be to do. and it shall be do old people. get a way. he wave his hand imperiously and point to the man. you see him. he be not good to see. he be just one little oh so little accident that no one remember. now he be that. so will you be brother soldier so brave so will you be. but you will never come back. you will all go where he be go or he point to the great coffin shadow on the ceiling and mutter seventy million get a way you old people fell asleep. 
sweet and to the point say little mildred. what s the use of get wroth. let s make this poor devil comfortable. 
but that be a matter suddenly and swiftly take from the love hand of the white hussar. the lieutenant have return only to go away again three day late when the wail of the dead march and the tramp of the squadron tell the wonder station who saw no gap in the mess table that an officer of the regiment have resign his new find commission. 
and dirkovitch bland supple and always genial go away too by a night train. little mildred and another man saw him off for he be the guest of the mess and even have he smite the colonel with the open hand the law of that mess allow no relaxation of hospitality. 
good bye dirkovitch and a pleasant journey say little mildred. 
au revoir say the russian. 
indeed. but we think you be go home. 
yes but i will come again. my dear friend be that road shut. he point to where the north star burn over the khyber pas. 
by jove. i forget. of course. happy to meet you old man any time you like. get everything you want. cheroot ice bed. that s all right. well au revoir dirkovitch. 
um say the other man a the tail light of the train grow small. of all the unmitigated. 
little mildred answer nothing but watch the north star and hum a selection from a recent simla burlesque that have much delight the white hussar. it run. 
i m sorry for mister bluebeard i m sorry to cause him pain. but a terrible spree there s sure to be when he come back again. 
the head of the district. 
there s a convict more in the central jail behind the old mud wall. there s a lifter le on the border trail and the queen s peace over all dear boy the queen s peace over all. 
for we must bear our leader s blame on u the shame will fall if we lift our hand from a fetter land and the queen s peace over all dear boy the queen s peace over all. the run of shindand. 
i. 
the indus have rise in flood without warn. last night it be a fordable shallow. to night five mile of rave muddy water part bank and cave bank and the river be still rise under the moon. a litter bear by six beard men all unused to the work stop in the white sand that border the white plain. 
it s god s will they say. we dare not cross to night even in a boat. let u light a fire and cook food. we be tire men. 
they look at the litter inquiringly. within the deputy commissioner of the kot kumharsen district lay die of fever. they have bring him across country six fight men of a frontier clan that he have win over to the path of a moderate righteousness when he have break down at the foot of their inhospitable hill. and tallantire his assistant ride with them heavy hearted a heavy eye with sorrow and lack of sleep. he have serve under the sick man for three year and have learn to love him a men associate in toil of the hard learn to love or hate. drop from his horse he part the curtain of the litter and peer inside. 
orde orde old man can you hear. we have to wait till the river go down bad luck. 
i hear return a dry whisper. wait till the river go down. i think we should reach camp before the dawn. polly know. she ll meet me. 
one of the litter men star across the river and catch a faint twinkle of light on the far side. he whisper to tallantire there be his camp fire and his wife. they will cross in the morning for they have good boat. can he live so long. 
tallantire shake his head. yardley orde be very near to death. what need to vex his soul with hope of a meet that could not be. the river gulp at the bank bring down a cliff of sand and snarl the more hungrily. the litter men seek for fuel in the waste dry camel thorn and refuse of the camp that have wait at the ford. their sword belt clink a they move softly in the haze of the moonlight and tallantire s horse cough to explain that he would like a blanket. 
i m cold too say the voice from the litter. i fancy this be the end. poor polly. 
tallantire rearrange the blanket. khoda dad khan see this strip off his own heavy wad sheepskin coat and add it to the pile. i shall be warm by the fire presently say he. tallantire take the waste body of his chief into his arm and hold it against his breast. perhaps if they keep him very warm orde might live to see his wife once more. if only blind providence would send a three foot fall in the river. 
that s good say orde faintly. sorry to be a nuisance but be be there anything to drink. 
they give him milk and whisky and tallantire felt a little warmth against his own breast. orde begin to mutter. 
it isn t that i mind die he say. it s leave polly and the district. thank god. we have no child. dick you know i m dip awfully dip debt in my first five year service. it isn t much of a pension but enough for her. she ha her mother at home. get there be the difficulty. and and you see not be a soldier s wife. 
we ll arrange the passage home of course say tallantire quietly. 
it s not nice to think of send round the hat. but good lord. how many men i lie here and remember that have to do it. morten s dead he be of my year. shaughnessy be dead and he have child. i remember he use to read u their school letter. what a bore we think him. evans be dead kot kumharsen kill him. ricketts of myndonie be dead and i m go too. man that be bear of a woman be small potato and few in the hill. that remind me dick. the four khusru kheyl village in our border want a one third remittance this spring. that s fair. their crop be bad. see that they get it and speak to ferris about the canal. i should like to have live till that be finish. it mean so much for the north indus village but ferris be an idle beggar wake him up. you ll have charge of the district till my successor come. i wish they would appoint you permanently. you know the folk. i suppose it will be bullows though. good man but too weak for frontier work. and he doesn t understand the priest. the blind priest at jagai will bear watch. you ll find it in my paper in the uniform case i think. call the khusru kheyl men up. i ll hold my last public audience. khoda dad khan. 
the leader of the men spring to the side of the litter his companion follow. 
men i m die say orde quickly in the vernacular. and soon there will be no more orde sahib to twist your tail and prevent you from raid cattle. 
god forbid this thing. break out the deep bass chorus. the sahib be not go to die. 
yes he be. and then he will know whether mahomed speak truth or moses. but you must be good men when i be not here. such of you a live in our border must pay your tax quietly a before. i have speak of the village to be gently treat this year. such of you a live in the hill must refrain from cattle lift and burn no more thatch and turn a deaf ear to the voice of the priest who not know the strength of the government would lead you into foolish war wherein you will surely die and your crop be eat by stranger. and you must not sack any caravan and must leave your arm at the police post when you come in. a ha be your custom and my order. and tallantire sahib will be with you but i do not know who take my place. i speak now true talk for i be a it be already dead my child for though ye be strong men ye be child. 
and thou art our father and our mother break in khoda dad khan with an oath. what shall we do now there be no one to speak for u or to teach u to go wisely. 
there remain tallantire sahib. go to him. he know your talk and your heart. keep the young men quiet listen to the old men and obey. khoda dad khan take my ring. the watch and chain go to thy brother. keep those thing for my sake and i will speak to whatever god i may encounter and tell him that the khusru kheyl be good men. ye have my leave to go. 
khoda dad khan the ring upon his finger choke audibly a he catch the well know formula that close an interview. his brother turn to look across the river. the dawn be break and a speck of white show on the dull silver of the stream. she come say the man under his breath. can he live for another two hour. and he pull the newly acquire watch out of his belt and look uncomprehendingly at the dial a he have see englishman do. 
for two hour the belly sail tack and blunder up and down the river tallantire still clasp orde in his arm and khoda dad khan chafe his foot. he speak now and again of the district and his wife but a the end near more frequently of the latter. they hop he do not know that she be even then risk her life in a crazy native boat to regain him. but the awful foreknowledge of the die deceive them. wrench himself forward orde look through the curtain and saw how near be the sail. that s polly he say simply though his mouth be wried with agony. polly and the grim practical joke ever play on a man. dick you ll have to explain. 
and an hour late tallantire meet on the bank a woman in a gingham rid habit and a sun hat who cry out to him for her husband her boy and her darling while khoda dad khan throw himself face down on the sand and cover his eye. 
ii. 
the very simplicity of the notion be it charm. what more easy to win a reputation for far see statesmanship originality and above all deference to the desire of the people than by appoint a child of the country to the rule of that country. two hundred million of the most love and grateful folk under her majesty s dominion would laud the fact and their praise would endure for ever. yet he be indifferent to praise or blame a befit the very great of all the viceroy. his administration be base upon principle and the principle must be enforce in season and out of season. his pen and tongue have create the new india teem with possibility loud voice insistent a nation among nation all his very own. wherefore the very great of all the viceroy take another step in advance and with it counsel of those who should have advise him on the appointment of a successor to yardley orde. there be a gentleman and a member of the bengal civil service who have win his place and a university degree to boot in fair and open competition with the son of the english. he be culture of the world and if report speak truly have wisely and above all sympathetically rule a crowd district in south eastern bengal. he have be to england and charm many draw room there. his name if the viceroy recollect aright be mr. grish chunder de m. a. in short do anybody see any objection to the appointment always on principle of a man of the people to rule the people. the district in south eastern bengal might with advantage he apprehend pas over to a young civilian of mr. g. c. de s nationality. who have write a remarkably clever pamphlet on the political value of sympathy in administration. and mr. g. c. de could be transfer northward to kot kumharsen. the viceroy be averse on principle to interfere with appointment under control of the provincial government. he wish it to be understand that he merely recommend and advise in this instance. a regard the mere question of race mr. grish chunder de be more english than the english and yet possess of that peculiar sympathy and insight which the best among the best service in the world could only win to at the end of their service. 
the stern black beard king who sit about the council board of india divide on the step with the inevitable result of drive the very great of all the viceroy into the border of hysteria and a bewilder obstinacy pathetic a that of a child. 
the principle be sound enough say the weary eye head of the red province in which kot kumharsen lay for he too hold theory. the only difficulty be. 
put the screw on the district official. brigade de with a very strong deputy commissioner on each side of him. give him the best assistant in the province. rub the fear of god into the people beforehand. and if anything go wrong say that his colleague didn t back him up. all these lovely little experiment recoil on the district officer in the end say the knight of the draw sword with a truthful brutality that make the head of the red province shudder. and on a tacit understand of this kind the transfer be accomplish a quietly a might be for many reason. 
it be sad to think that what go for public opinion in india do not generally see the wisdom of the viceroy s appointment. there be not lack indeed hireling organ notoriously in the pay of a tyrannous bureaucracy who more than hint that his excellency be a fool a dreamer of dream a doctrinaire and bad of all a trifler with the life of men. the viceroy s excellence gazette publish in calcutta be at pain to thank our beloved viceroy for once more and again thus gloriously vindicate the potentiality of the bengali nation for extend executive and administrative duty in foreign part beyond our ken. we do not at all doubt that our excellent fellow townsman mr. grish chunder de esq. m. a. will uphold the prestige of the bengali notwithstanding what underhand intrigue and peshbundi may be set on foot to insidiously nip his fame and blast his prospect among the proud civilian some of which will now have to serve under a despise native and take order too. how will you like that mister. we entreat our beloved viceroy still to substantiate himself superiorly to race prejudice and colour blindness and to allow the flower of this now our civil service all the full pay and allowance grant to his more fortunate brother. 
iii. 
when doe this man take over charge. i m alone just now and i gather that i m to stand fast under him. 
would you have care for a transfer. say bullows keenly. then lay his hand on tallantire s shoulder. we re all in the same boat. don t desert u. and yet why the devil should you stay if you can get another charge. 
it be orde s say tallantire simply. 
well it s de s now. he s a bengali of the bengali cram with code and case law. a beautiful man so far a routine and deskwork go and pleasant to talk to. they naturally have always keep him in his own home district where all his sister and his cousin and his aunt live somewhere south of dacca. he do no more than turn the place into a pleasant little family preserve allow his subordinate to do what they like and let everybody have a chance at the shekel. consequently he s immensely popular down there. 
i ve nothing to do with that. how on earth be i to explain to the district that they be go to be govern by a bengali. do you doe the government i mean suppose that the khusru kheyl will sit quiet when they once know. what will the mahomedan head of village say. how will the police muzbi sikh and pathan how will they work under him. we couldn t say anything if the government appoint a sweeper. but my people will say a good deal you know that. it s a piece of cruel folly. 
my dear boy i know all that and more. i ve represent it and have be tell that i be exhibit culpable and puerile prejudice. by jove if the khusru kheyl don t exhibit something bad than that i don t know the border. the chance be that you will have the district alight on your hand and i shall have to leave my work and help you pull through. i needn t ask you to stand by the bengali man in every possible way. you ll do that for your own sake. 
for orde s. i can t say that i care twopence personally. 
don t be an as. it s grievous enough god know and the government will know late on. but that s no reason for your sulk. you must try to run the district you must stand between him and a much insult a possible. you must show him the rope. you must pacify the khusru kheyl and just warn curbar of the police to look out for trouble by the way. i m always at the end of a telegraph wire and will to peril my reputation to hold the district together. you ll lose yours of course if you keep thing straight and he isn t actually beat with a stick when he s on tour he ll get all the credit. if anything go wrong you ll be tell that you didn t support him loyally. 
i know what i ve get to do say tallantire wearily and i m go to do it. but it s hard. 
the work be with u the event be with allah a orde use to say when he be more than usually in hot water. and bullows ride away. 
that two gentleman in her majesty s bengal civil service should thus discus a third also in that service and a culture and affable man withal seem strange and sadden. yet listen to the artless babble of the blind mullah of jagai the priest of the khusru kheyl sit upon a rock overlook the border. five year before a chance hurl shell from a screw gun battery have dash earth in the face of the mullah then urge a rush of ghazis against half a dozen british bayonet. so he become blind and hat the english none the le for the little accident. yardley orde know his fail and have many time laugh at him therefor. 
dog you be say the blind mullah to the listen tribesman round the fire. whip dog. because you listen to orde sahib and call him father and behave a his child the british government have prove how they regard you. orde sahib ye know be dead. 
ai. ai. ai. say half a dozen voice. 
he be a man. come now in his stead whom think ye. a bengali of bengal an eater of fish from the south. 
a lie. say khoda dad khan. and but for the small matter of thy priesthood i d drive my gun butt first down thy throat. 
oho art thou there lickspittle of the english. go in to morrow across the border to pay service to orde sahib s successor and thou shalt slip thy shoe at the tent door of a bengali a thou shalt hand thy offer to a bengali s black fist. this i know. and in my youth when a young man speak evil to a mullah hold the door of heaven and hell the gun butt be not ram down the mullah s gullet. no. 
the blind mullah hat khoda dad khan with afghan hatred. both be rival for the headship of the tribe. but the latter be fear for bodily a the other for spiritual gift. khoda dad khan look at orde s ring and grunt i go in to morrow because i be not an old fool preach war against the english. if the government smite with madness have do this then. 
then croak the mullah thou wilt take out the young men and strike at the four village within the border. 
or wring thy neck black raven of jehannum for a bearer of ill tide. 
khoda dad khan oil his long lock with great care put on his best bokhara belt a new turban cap and fine green shoe and accompany by a few friend come down from the hill to pay a visit to the new deputy commissioner of kot kumharsen. also he bore tribute four or five priceless gold mohurs of akbar s time in a white handkerchief. these the deputy commissioner would touch and remit. the little ceremony use to be a sign that so far a khoda dad khan s personal influence go the khusru kheyl would be good boy till the next time. especially if khoda dad khan happen to like the new deputy commissioner. in yardley orde s consulship his visit conclude with a sumptuous dinner and perhaps forbid liquor. certainly with some wonderful tale and great good fellowship. then khoda dad khan would swagger back to his hold vow that orde sahib be one prince and tallantire sahib another and that whosoever go a raid into british territory would be flay alive. on this occasion he find the deputy commissioner s tent look much a usual. regard himself a privilege he stride through the open door to confont a suave portly bengali in english costume write at a table. unversed in the elevate influence of education and not in the least care for university degree khoda dad khan promptly set the man down for a babu the native clerk of the deputy commissioner a hat and despise animal. 
ugh. say he cheerfully. where s your master babujee. 
i be the deputy commissioner say the gentleman in english. now he overvalue the effect of university degree and star khoda dad khan in the face. but if from your early infancy you have be accustom to look on battle murder and sudden death if spill blood affect your nerve a much a red paint and above all if you have faithfully believe that the bengali be the servant of all hindustan and that all hindustan be vastly inferior to your own large lustful self you can endure even though uneducated a very large amount of look over. you can even stare down a graduate of an oxford college if the latter ha be bear in a hothouse of stock breed in a hothouse and fear physical pain a some men fear sin. especially if your opponent s mother ha frighten him to sleep in his youth with horrible story of devil inhabit afghanistan and dismal legend of the black north. the eye behind the gold spectacle seek the floor. khoda dad khan chuckle and swing out to find tallantire hard by. here say he roughly thrust the coin before him touch and remit. that answer for my good behaviour. but o sahib ha the government go mad to send a black bengali dog to u. and be i to pay service to such an one. and be you to work under him. what doe it mean. it be an order say tallantire. he have expect something of this kind. he be a very clever s sahib. 
he a sahib. he s a kala admi a black man unfit to run at the tail of a potter s donkey. all the people of the earth have harry bengal. it be write. thou knowest when we of the north want woman or plunder whither go we. to bengal where else. what child s talk be this of sahibdom after orde sahib too. of a truth the blind mullah be right. 
what of him. ask tallantire uneasily. he mistrust that old man with his dead eye and his deadly tongue. 
nay now because of the oath that i sware to orde sahib when we watch him die by the river yonder i will tell. in the first place be it true that the english have set the heel of the bengali on their own neck and that there be no more english rule in the land. 
i be here say tallantire and i serve the maharanee of england. 
the mullah say otherwise and further that because we love orde sahib the government send u a pig to show that we be dog who till now have be hold by the strong hand. also that they be take away the white soldier that more hindustani might come and that all be change. 
this be the bad of ill consider handle of a very large country. what look so feasible in calcutta so right in bombay so unassailable in madras be misunderstand by the north and entirely change it complexion on the bank of the indus. khoda dad khan explain a clearly a he could that though he himself intend to be good he really could not answer for the more reckless member of his tribe under the leadership of the blind mullah. they might or they might not give trouble but they certainly have no intention whatever of obey the new deputy commissioner. be tallantire perfectly sure that in the event of any systematic border raid the force in the district could put it down promptly. 
tell the mullah if he talk any more fool s talk say tallantire curtly that he take his men on to certain death and his tribe to blockade trespass fine and blood money. but why do i talk to one who no long carry weight in the counsel of the tribe. 
khoda dad khan pocket that insult. he have learn something that he much want to know and return to his hill to be sarcastically compliment by the mullah whose tongue rag round the camp fire be deadly flame than ever dung cake feed. 
iv. 
be please to consider here for a moment the unknown district of kot kumharsen. it lay cut lengthways by the indus under the line of the khusru hill rampart of useless earth and tumble stone. it be seventy mile long by fifty broad maintain a population of something le than two hundred thousand and pay tax to the extent of forty thousand pound a year on an area that be by rather more than half sheer hopeless waste. the cultivator be not gentle people the miner for salt be le gentle still and the cattle breeder least gentle of all. a police post in the top right hand corner and a tiny mud fort in the top leave hand corner prevent a much salt smuggle and cattle lift a the influence of the civilian could not put down. and in the bottom right hand corner lay jumala the district headquarter a pitiful knot of lime wash barn facetiously rent a house reek with frontier fever leak in the rain and oven in the summer. 
it be to this place that grish chunder de be travel there formally to take over charge of the district. but the news of his come have go before. bengali be a scarce a poodle among the simple borderer who cut each other s head open with their long spade and worship impartially at hindu and mahomedan shrine. they crowd to see him point at him and diversely compare him to a gravid milch buffalo or a break down horse a their limit range of metaphor prompt. they laugh at his police guard and wish to know how long the burly sikh be go to lead bengali ape. they inquire whether he have bring his woman with him and advise him explicitly not to tamper with theirs. it remain for a wrinkle hag by the roadside to slap her lean breast a he pass cry i have suckle six that could have eat six thousand of him. the government shoot them and make this that a king. whereat a blue turbaned huge bone plough mender shout have hope mother o mine. he may yet go the way of thy wastrel. and the child the little brown puff ball regard curiously. it be generally a good thing for infancy to stray into orde sahib s tent where copper coin be to be win for the mere wish and tale of the most authentic such a even their mother know but the first half of. no. this fat black man could never tell them how pir prith haul the eye teeth out of ten devil. how the big stone come to lie all in a row on top of the khusru hill and what happen if you shout through the village gate to the gray wolf at even badl khas be dead. meantime grish chunder de talk hastily and much to tallantire after the manner of those who be more english than the english of oxford and home with much curious book knowledge of bump supper cricket match hunt run and other unholy sport of the alien. we must get these fellow in hand he say once or twice uneasily. get them well in hand and drive them on a tight rein. no use you know be slack with your district. 
and a moment late tallantire hear debendra nath de who brotherliwise have follow his kinsman s fortune and hop for the shadow of his protection a a pleader whisper in bengali good be dry fish at dacca than draw sword at delhi. brother of mine these men be devil a our mother say. and you will always have to ride upon a horse. 
that night there be a public audience in a break down little town thirty mile from jumala when the new deputy commissioner in reply to the greeting of the subordinate native official deliver a speech. it be a carefully think out speech which would have be very valuable have not his third sentence begin with three innocent word hamara hookum hai it be my order. then there be a laugh clear and bell like from the back of the big tent where a few border landholder sit and the laugh grow and scorn mingle with it and the lean keen face of debendra nath de pal and grish chunder turn to tallantire spake. you you put up this arrangement. upon that instant the noise of hoof ring without and there enter curbar the district superintendent of police sweat and dusty. the state have toss him into a corner of the province for seventeen weary year there to check smuggle of salt and to hope for promotion that never come. he have forget how to keep his white uniform clean have screw rusty spur into patent leather shoe and clothe his head indifferently with a helmet or a turban. sour old wear with heat and cold he wait till he should be entitle to sufficient pension to keep him from starve. 
tallantire say he disregard grish chunder de come outside. i want to speak to you. they withdraw. it s this continue curbar. the khusru kheyl have rush and cut up half a dozen of the cooly on ferris s new canal embankment. kill a couple of men and carry off a woman. i wouldn t trouble you about that ferris be after them and hugonin my assistant with ten mount police. but that s only the begin i fancy. their fire be out on the hassan ardeb height and unless we re pretty quick there ll be a flare up all along our border. they be sure to raid the four khusru village on our side of the line. there s be bad blood between them for year. and you know the blind mullah ha be preach a holy war since orde go out. what s your notion. 
damn. say tallantire thoughtfully. they ve begin quick. well it seem to me i d good ride off to fort ziar and get what men i can there to picket among the lowland village if it s not too late. tommy dodd command at fort ziar i think. ferris and hugonin ought to teach the canal thief a lesson and no we can t have the head of the police ostentatiously guard the treasury. you go back to the canal. i ll wire bullows to come into jumala with a strong police guard and sit on the treasury. they win t touch the place but it look well. 
i i i insist upon know what this mean say the voice of the deputy commissioner who have follow the speaker. 
oh. say curbar who be in the police could not understand that fifteen year of education must on principle change the bengali into a briton. there ha be a fight on the border and heap of men be kill. there s go to be another fight and heap more will be kill. 
what for. 
because the teem million of this district don t exactly approve of you and think that under your benign rule they be go to have a good time. it strike me that you have good make arrangement. i act a you know by your order. what do you advise. 
i i take you all to witness that i have not yet assume charge of the district stammer the deputy commissioner not in the tone of the more english. 
ah i think so. well a i be say tallantire your plan be sound. carry it out. do you want an escort. 
no. only a decent horse. but how about wire to headquarter. 
i fancy from the colour of his cheek that your superior officer will send some wonderful telegram before the night s over. let him do that and we shall have half the troop of the province come up to see what s the trouble. well run along and take care of yourself the khusru kheyl jab upwards from below remember. ho. mir khan give tallantire sahib the best of the horse and tell five men to ride to jumala with the deputy commissioner sahib bahadur. there be a hurry toward. 
there be. and it be not in the least better by debendra nath de cling to a policeman s bridle and demand the short the very short way to jumala. now originality be fatal to the bengali. debendra nath should have stay with his brother who ride steadfastly for jumala on the railway line thank god entirely unknown to the most catholic of university that he have not take charge of the district and could still happy resource of a fertile race. fall sick. 
and i grieve to say that when he reach his goal two policeman not devoid of rude wit who have be confer together a they bump in their saddle arrange an entertainment for his behoof. it consist of first one and then the other enter his room with prodigious detail of war the mass of bloodthirsty and devilish tribe and the burn of town. it be almost a good say these scamp a rid with curbar after evasive afghan. each invention keep the hearer at work for half an hour on telegram which the sack of delhi would hardly have justify. to every power that could move a bayonet or transfer a terrify man grish chunder de appeal telegraphically. he be alone his assistant have flee and in truth he have not take over charge of the district. have the telegram be despatch many thing would have occur. but since the only signaller in jumala have go to bed and the station master after one look at the tremendous pile of paper discover that railway regulation forbid the forward of imperial message policeman ram singh and nihal singh be fain to turn the stuff into a pillow and sleep on it very comfortably. 
tallantire drive his spur into a rampant skewbald stallion with china blue eye and settle himself for the forty mile ride to fort ziar. know his district blindfold he waste no time hunt for short cut but head across the rich graze grind to the ford where orde have die and be bury. the dusty grind deaden the noise of his horse s hoof the moon throw his shadow a restless goblin before him and the heavy dew drench him to the skin. hillock scrub that brush against the horse s belly unmetalled road where the whip like foliage of the tamarisk lash his forehead illimitable level of lowland furred with bend and speckle with drowse cattle waste and hillock anew drag themselves past and the skewbald be labour in the deep sand of the indus ford. tallantire be conscious of no distinct think till the nose of the dawdle ferry boat ground on the farther side and his horse shy snort at the white headstone of orde s grave. then he uncover and shout that the dead might hear they re out old man. wish me luck. in the chill of the dawn he be hammer with a stirrup iron at the gate of fort ziar where fifty sabre of that tattered regiment the belooch beshaklis be suppose to guard her majesty s interest along a few hundred mile of border. this particular fort be command by a subaltern who bear of the ancient family of the derouletts naturally answer to the name of tommy dodd. him tallantire find rob in a sheepskin coat shake with fever like an aspen and try to read the native apothecary s list of invalid. 
so you ve come too say he. well we re all sick here and i don t think i can horse thirty men. but we re bub bub bub bless will. stop doe this impress you a a trap or a lie. he toss a scrap of paper to tallantire on which be write painfully in crab gurmukhi we cannot hold young horse. they will fee after the moon go down in the four border village issue from the jagai pas on the next night. then in english round hand your sincere friend. 
good man. say tallantire. that s khoda dad khan s work i know. it s the only piece of english he could ever keep in his head and he be immensely proud of it. he be play against the blind mullah for his own hand the treacherous young ruffian. 
don t know the politics of the khusru kheyl but if you re satisfy i be. that be pitch in over the gate head last night and i think we might pull ourselves together and see what be on. oh but we re sick with fever here and no mistake. be this go to be a big business think you. say tommy dodd. 
tallantire give him briefly the outline of the case and tommy dodd whistle and shake with fever alternately. that day he devote to strategy the art of war and the enlivenment of the invalid till at dusk there stand ready forty two trooper lean wear and dishevel whom tommy dodd survey with pride and address thus. o men. if you die you will go to hell. therefore endeavour to keep alive. but if you go to hell that place cannot be hot than this place and we be not tell that we shall there suffer from fever. consequently be not afraid of die. file out there. they grin and go. 
v. 
it will be long ere the khusru kheyl forget their night attack on the lowland village. the mullah have promise an easy victory and unlimited plunder. but behold arm trooper of the queen have rise out of the very earth cut slash and rid down under the star so that no man know where to turn and all fear that they have bring an army about their ear and run back to the hill. in the panic of that flight more men be see to drop from wound inflict by an afghan knife jab upwards and yet more from long range carbine fire. then there rise a cry of treachery and when they reach their own guard height they have leave with some forty dead and sixty wound all their confidence in the blind mullah on the plain below. they clamour swear and argue round the fire. the woman wail for the lose and the mullah shriek curse on the return. 
then khoda dad khan eloquent and unbreathed for he have take no part in the fight rise to improve the occasion. he point out that the tribe owe every item of it present misfortune to the blind mullah who have lie in every possible particular and talk them into a trap. it be undoubtedly an insult that a bengali the son of a bengali should presume to administer the border but that fact do not a the mullah pretend herald a general time of license and lift. and the inexplicable madness of the english have not in the least impair their power of guard their march. on the contrary the baffle and out generalled tribe would now just when their food stock be low be blockade from any trade with hindustan until they have send hostage for good behaviour pay compensation for disturbance and blood money at the rate of thirty six english pound per head for every villager that they might have slay. and ye know that those lowland dog will make oath that we have slay score. will the mullah pay the fine or must we sell our gun. a low growl run round the fire. now see that all this be the mullah s work and that we have gain nothing but promise of paradise thereby it be in my heart that we of the khusru kheyl lack a shrine whereat to pray. we be weaken and henceforth how shall we dare to cross into the madar kheyl border a ha be our custom to kneel to pir sajji s tomb. the madar men will fall upon u and rightly. but our mullah be a holy man. he ha help two score of u into paradise this night. let him therefore accompany his flock and we will build over his body a dome of the blue tile of mooltan and burn lamp at his foot every friday night. he shall be a saint. we shall have a shrine. and there our woman shall pray for fresh seed to fill the gap in our fight tale. how think you. 
a grim chuckle follow the suggestion and the soft wheep wheep of unscabbarded knife follow the chuckle. it be an excellent notion and meet a long felt want of the tribe. the mullah spring to his foot glare with wither eyeball at the draw death he could not see and call down the curse of god and mahomed on the tribe. then begin a game of blind man s buff round and between the fire whereof khuruk shah the tribal poet ha sing in verse that will not die. 
they tickle him gently under the armpit with the knife point. he leap aside scream only to feel a cold blade draw lightly over the back of his neck or a rifle muzzle rub his beard. he call on his adherent to aid him but most of these lay dead on the plain for khoda dad khan have be at some pain to arrange their decease. men describe to him the glory of the shrine they would build and the little child clap their hand cry run mullah run. there s a man behind you. in the end when the sport weary khoda dad khan s brother send a knife home between his rib. wherefore say khoda dad khan with charm simplicity i be now chief of the khusru kheyl. no man gainsay him. and they all go to sleep very stiff and sore. 
on the plain below tommy dodd be lecture on the beauty of a cavalry charge by night and tallantire bow on his saddle be gasp hysterically because there be a sword dangle from his wrist fleck with the blood of the khusru kheyl the tribe that orde have keep in leash so well. when a rajpoot trooper point out that the skewbald s right ear have be take off at the root by some blind slash of it unskilled rider tallantire break down altogether and laugh and sob till tommy dodd make him lie down and rest. 
we must wait about till the morning say he. i wire to the colonel just before we leave to send a wing of the beshaklis after u. he ll be furious with me for monopolise the fun though. those beggar in the hill win t give u any more trouble. 
then tell the beshaklis to go on and see what ha happen to curbar on the canal. we must patrol the whole line of the border. you re quite sure tommy that that stuff be be only the skewbald s ear. 
oh quite say tommy. you just miss cut off his head. i saw you when we go into the mess. sleep old man. 
noon bring two squadron of beshaklis and a knot of furious brother officer demand the court martial of tommy dodd for spoil the picnic and a gallop across country to the canal work where ferris curbar and hugonin be harangue the terror stricken cooly on the enormity of abandon good work and high pay merely because half a dozen of their fellow have be cut down. the sight of a troop of the beshaklis restore waver confidence and the police hunt section of the khusru kheyl have the joy of watch the canal bank hum with life a usual while such of their men a have take refuge in the watercourse and ravine be be drive out by the trooper. by sundown begin the remorseless patrol of the border by police and trooper most like the cow boy eternal ride round restless cattle. 
now say khoda dad khan to his fellow point out a line of twinkle fire below ye may see how far the old order change. after their horse will come the little devil gun that they can drag up to the top of the hill and for aught i know to the cloud when we crown the hill. if the tribe council think good i will go to tallantire sahib who love me and see if i can stave off at least the blockade. do i speak for the tribe. 
ay speak for the tribe in god s name. how those accurse fire wink. do the english send their troop on the wire or be this the work of the bengali. 
a khoda dad khan go down the hill he be delay by an interview with a hard press tribesman which cause him to return hastily for something he have forget. then hand himself over to the two trooper who have be chase his friend he claim escort to tallantire sahib then with bullows at jumala. the border be safe and the time for reason in write have begin. 
thank heaven. say bullows that the trouble come at once. of course we can never put down the reason in black and white but all india will understand. and it be good to have a sharp short outbreak than five year of impotent administration inside the border. it cost le. grish chunder de ha report himself sick and ha be transfer to his own province without any sort of reprimand. he be strong on not have take over the district. 
of course say tallantire bitterly. well what be i suppose to have do that be wrong. 
oh you will be tell that you exceed all your power and should have report and write and advise for three week until the khusru kheyl could really come down in force. but i don t think the authority will dare to make a fuss about it. they ve have their lesson. have you see curbar s version of the affair. he can t write a report but he can speak the truth. 
what s the use of the truth. he d much good tear up the report. i m sick and heartbroken over it all. it be so utterly unnecessary except in that it rid u of that babu. 
enter unabashed khoda dad khan a stuff forage net in his hand and the trooper behind him. 
may you never be tire. say he cheerily. well sahib that be a good fight and naim shah s mother be in debt to you tallantire sahib. a clean cut they tell me through jaw wad coat and deep into the collar bone. well do. but i speak for the tribe. there ha be a fault a great fault. thou knowest that i and mine tallantire sahib keep the oath we sware to orde sahib on the bank of the indus. 
a an afghan keep his knife sharp on one side blunt on the other say tallantire. 
the good swing in the blow then. but i speak god s truth. only the blind mullah carry the young men on the tip of his tongue and say that there be no more border law because a bengali have be send and we need not fear the english at all. so they come down to avenge that insult and get plunder. ye know what befall and how far i help. now five score of u be dead or wound and we be all sham and sorry and desire no further war. moreover that ye may good listen to u we have take off the head of the blind mullah whose evil counsel have lead u to folly. i bring it for proof and he heave on the floor the head. he will give no more trouble for i be chief now and so i sit in a high place at all audience. yet there be an offset to this head. that be another fault. one of the men find that black bengali beast through whom this trouble arise wander on horseback and weep. reflect that he have cause loss of much good life alla dad khan whom if you choose i will to morrow shoot whip off this head and i bring it to you to cover your shame that ye may bury it. see no man keep the spectacle though they be of gold. 
slowly roll to tallantire s foot the crop haired head of a spectacled bengali gentleman open eye open mouth the head of terror incarnate. bullows bend down. yet another blood fine and a heavy one khoda dad khan for this be the head of debendra nath the man s brother. the babu be safe long since. all but the fool of the khusru kheyl know that. 
well i care not for carrion. quick meat for me. the thing be under our hill ask the road to jumala and alla dad khan show him the road to jehannum be a thou sayest but a fool. remain now what the government will do to u. a to the blockade. 
who art thou seller of dog s flesh thunder tallantire to speak of term and treaty. get hence to the hill go and wait there starve till it shall please the government to call thy people out for punishment child and fool that ye be. count your dead and be still. best assure that the government will send you a man. 
ay return khoda dad khan for we also be men. 
a he look tallantire between the eye he add and by god sahib may thou be that man. 
without benefit of clergy. 
before my spring i garner autumn s gain out of her time my field be white with grain the year give up her secret to my woe. force and deflower each sick season lay in mystery of increase and decay. i saw the sunset ere men saw the day who be too wise in that i should not know. bitter water. 
i. 
but if it be a girl. 
lord of my life it cannot be. i have pray for so many night and send gift to sheikh badl s shrine so often that i know god will give u a son a man child that shall grow into a man. think of this and be glad. my mother shall be his mother till i can take him again and the mullah of the pattan mosque shall cast his nativity god send he be bear in an auspicious hour. and then and then thou wilt never weary of me thy slave. 
since when hast thou be a slave my queen. 
since the begin till this mercy come to me. how could i be sure of thy love when i know that i have be buy with silver. 
nay that be the dowry. i pay it to thy mother. 
and she ha bury it and sit upon it all day long like a hen. what talk be yours of dower. i be buy a though i have be a lucknow dance girl instead of a child. 
art thou sorry for the sale. 
i have sorrow. but to day i be glad. thou wilt never cease to love me now. answer my king. 
never never. no. 
not even though the mem log the white woman of thy own blood love thee. and remember i have watch them drive in the even. they be very fair. 
i have see fire balloon by the hundred. i have see the moon and then i saw no more fire balloon. 
ameera clap her hand and laugh. very good talk she say. then with an assumption of great stateliness it be enough. thou hast my permission to depart if thou wilt. 
the man do not move. he be sit on a low red lacquer couch in a room furnish only with a blue and white floor cloth some rug and a very complete collection of native cushion. at his foot sit a woman of sixteen and she be all but all the world in his eye. by every rule and law she should have be otherwise for he be an englishman and she a mussulman s daughter buy two year before from her mother who be leave without money would have sell ameera shriek to the prince of darkness if the price have be sufficient. 
it be a contract enter into with a light heart. but even before the girl have reach her bloom she come to fill the great portion of john holden s life. for her and the wither hag her mother he have take a little house overlook the great red wall city and find when the marigold have spring up by the well in the courtyard and ameera have establish herself accord to her own idea of comfort and her mother have cease grumble at the inadequacy of the cook place the distance from the daily market and at matter of house keep in general that the house be to him his home. any one could enter his bachelor s bungalow by day or night and the life that he lead there be an unlovely one. in the house in the city his foot only could pas beyond the out courtyard to the woman s room. and when the big wooden gate be bolt behind him he be king in his own territory with ameera for queen. and there be go to be add to this kingdom a third person whose arrival holden felt incline to resent. it interfere with his perfect happiness. it disarrange the orderly peace of the house that be his own. but ameera be wild with delight at the think of it and her mother not le so. the love of a man and particularly a white man be at the best an inconstant affair but it might both woman argue be hold fast by a baby s hand. and then ameera would always say then he will never care for the white mem log. i hate them all i hate them all. 
he will go back to his own people in time say the mother. but by the bless of god that time be yet afar off. 
holden sit silent on the couch think of the future and his thought be not pleasant. the drawback of a double life be manifold. the government with singular care have order him out of the station for a fortnight on special duty in the place of a man who be watch by the bedside of a sick wife. the verbal notification of the transfer have be edge by a cheerful remark that holden ought to think himself lucky in be a bachelor and a free man. he come to break the news to ameera. 
it be not good she say slowly but it be not all bad. there be my mother here and no harm will come to me unless indeed i die of pure joy. go thou to thy work and think no troublesome thought. when the day be do i believe. nay i be sure. and and then i shall lay him in thy arm and thou wilt love me for ever. the train go to night at midnight be it not. go now and do not let thy heart be heavy by cause of me. but thou wilt not delay in return. thou wilt not stay on the road to talk to the bold white mem log. come back to me swiftly my life. 
a he leave the courtyard to reach his horse that be tether to the gate post holden speak to the white haired old watchman who guard the house and bid him under certain contingency despatch the fill up telegraph form that holden give him. it be all that could be do and with the sensation of a man who ha attend his own funeral holden go away by the night mail to his exile. every hour of the day he dread the arrival of the telegram and every hour of the night he picture to himself the death of ameera. in consequence his work for the state be not of first rate quality nor be his temper towards his colleague of the most amiable. the fortnight end without a sign from his home and tear to piece by his anxiety holden return to be swallow up for two precious hour by a dinner at the club wherein he hear a a man hear in a swoon voice tell him how execrably he have perform the other man s duty and how he have endear himself to all his associate. then he flee on horseback through the night with his heart in his mouth. there be no answer at first to his blow on the gate and he have just wheel his horse round to kick it in when pir khan appear with a lantern and hold his stirrup. 
ha aught occur. say holden. 
the news doe not come from my mouth protector of the poor but he hold out his shake hand a befit the bearer of good news who be entitle to a reward. 
holden hurry through the courtyard. a light burn in the upper room. his horse neigh in the gateway and he hear a shrill little wail that send all the blood into the apple of his throat. it be a new voice but it do not prove that ameera be alive. 
who be there. he call up the narrow brick staircase. 
there be a cry of delight from ameera and then the voice of the mother tremulous with old age and pride we be two woman and the man thy son. 
on the threshold of the room holden step on a naked dagger that be lay there to avert ill luck and it break at the hilt under his impatient heel. 
god be great. coo ameera in the half light. thou hast take his misfortune on thy head. 
ay but how be it with thee life of my life. old woman how be it with her. 
she ha forget her suffering for joy that the child be bear. there be no harm. but speak softly say the mother. 
it only need thy presence to make me all well say ameera. my king thou hast be very long away. what gift hast thou for me. ah ah. it be i that bring gift this time. look my life look. be there ever such a babe. nay i be too weak even to clear my arm from him. 
rest then and do not talk. i be here bachari [little woman]. 
well say for there be a bond and a heel rope [peecharee] between u now that nothing can break. look canst thou see in this light. he be without spot or blemish. never be such a man child. ya illah. he shall be a pundit no a trooper of the queen. and my life dost thou love me a well a ever though i be faint and sick and wear. answer truly. 
yea. i love a i have love with all my soul. lie still pearl and rest. 
then do not go. sit by my side here so. mother the lord of this house need a cushion. bring it. there be an almost imperceptible movement on the part of the new life that lay in the hollow of ameera s arm. aho. she say her voice break with love. the babe be a champion from his birth. he be kick me in the side with mighty kick. be there ever such a babe. and he be ours to u thine and mine. put thy hand on his head but carefully for he be very young and men be unskilled in such matter. 
very cautiously holden touch with the tip of his finger the downy head. 
he be of the faith say ameera. for lie here in the night watch i whisper the call to prayer and the profession of faith into his ear. and it be most marvellous that he be bear upon a friday a i be bear. be careful of him my life. but he can almost grip with his hand. 
holden find one helpless little hand that close feebly on his finger. and the clutch run through his body till it settle about his heart. till then his sole think have be for ameera. he begin to realise that there be some one else in the world but he could not feel that it be a veritable son with a soul. he sit down to think and ameera doze lightly. 
get hence sahib say her mother under her breath. it be not good that she should find you here on wake. she must be still. 
i go say holden submissively. here be rupee. see that my baba get fat and find all that he need. 
the chink of the silver rouse ameera. i be his mother and no hireling she say weakly. shall i look to him more or le for the sake of money. mother give it back. i have bear my lord a son. 
the deep sleep of weakness come upon her almost before the sentence be complete. holden go down to the courtyard very softly with his heart at ease. pir khan the old watchman be chuckle with delight. this house be now complete he say and without further comment thrust into holden s hand the hilt of a sabre wear many year ago when he pir khan serve the queen in the police. the bleat of a tether goat come from the well kerb. 
there be two say pir khan two goat of the best. i buy them and they cost much money. and since there be no birth party assemble their flesh will be all mine. strike craftily sahib. ti an ill balance sabre at the best. wait till they raise their head from crop the marigold. 
and why. say holden bewilder. 
for the birth sacrifice. what else. otherwise the child be unguarded from fate may die. the protector of the poor know the fit word to be say. 
holden have learn them once with little think that he would ever speak them in earnest. the touch of the cold sabre hilt in his palm turn suddenly to the cling grip of the child upstairs the child that be his own son and a dread of loss fill him. 
strike. say pir khan. never life come into the world but life be pay for it. see the goat have raise their head. now. with a draw cut. 
hardly know what he do holden cut twice a he mutter the mahomedan prayer that run. almighty. in place of this my son i offer life for life blood for blood head for head bone for bone hair for hair skin for skin. the wait horse snort and bound in his picket at the smell of the raw blood that spirt over holden s rid boot. 
well smite. say pir khan wipe the sabre. a swordsman be lose in thee. go with a light heart heaven bear. i be thy servant and the servant of thy son. may the presence live a thousand year and. the flesh of the goat be all mine. pir khan draw back rich by a month s pay. holden swing himself into the saddle and ride off through the low hang wood smoke of the even. he be full of riotous exultation alternate with a vast vague tenderness direct towards no particular object that make him choke a he bend over the neck of his uneasy horse. i never felt like this in my life he think. i ll go to the club and pull myself together. 
a game of pool be begin and the room be full of men. holden enter eager to get to the light and the company of his fellow sing at the top of his voice. 
in baltimore a walk a lady i do meet. 
do you. say the club secretary from his corner. do she happen to tell you that your boot be wring wet. great goodness man it s blood. 
bosh. say holden pick his cue from the rack. may i cut in. it s dew. i ve be rid through high crop. my faith. my boot be in a mess though. 
and if it be a girl she shall wear a wed ring and if it be a boy he shall fight for his king with his dirk and his cap and his little jacket blue he shall walk the quarter deck. 
yellow on blue green next player say the marker monotonously. 
he shall walk the quarter deck be i green marker. he shall walk the quarter deck eh. that s a bad shoot a his daddy use to do. 
i don t see that you have anything to crow about say a zealous junior civilian acidly. the government be not exactly please with your work when you relieve sander. 
doe that mean a wigging from headquarter. say holden with an abstract smile. i think i can stand it. 
the talk beat up round the ever fresh subject of each man s work and steady holden till it be time to go to his dark empty bungalow where his butler receive him a one who know all his affair. holden remain awake for the great part of the night and his dream be pleasant one. 
ii. 
how old be he now. 
ya illah. what a man s question. he be all but six week old. and on this night i go up to the housetop with thee my life to count the star. for that be auspicious. and he be bear on a friday under the sign of the sun and it ha be tell to me that he will outlive u both and get wealth. can we wish for aught good beloved. 
there be nothing good. let u go up to the roof and thou shalt count the star but a few only for the sky be heavy with cloud. 
the winter rain be late and maybe they come out of season. come before all the star be hide. i have put on my rich jewel. 
thou hast forget the best of all. 
ai. ours. he come also. he ha never yet see the sky. 
ameera climb the narrow staircase that lead to the flat roof. the child placid and unwinking lay in the hollow of her right arm gorgeous in silver fringe muslin with a small skull cap on his head. ameera wear all that she value most. the diamond nose stud that take the place of the western patch in draw attention to the curve of the nostril the gold ornament in the centre of the forehead stud with tallow drop emerald and flaw ruby the heavy circlet of beat gold that be fasten round her neck by the softness of the pure metal and the chink curb pattern silver anklet hang low over the rosy ankle bone. she be dress in jade green muslin a befit a daughter of the faith and from shoulder to elbow and elbow to wrist run bracelet of silver tie with floss silk frail glass bangle slip over the wrist in proof of the slenderness of the hand and certain heavy gold bracelet that have no part in her country s ornament but since they be holden s gift and fasten with a cunning european snap delight her immensely. 
they sit down by the low white parapet of the roof overlook the city and it light. 
they be happy down there say ameera. but i do not think that they be a happy a we. nor do i think the white mem log be a happy. and thou. 
i know they be not. 
how dost thou know. 
they give their child over to the nurse. 
i have never see that say ameera with a sigh nor do i wish to see. ahi. she drop her head on holden s shoulder i have count forty star and i be tire. look at the child love of my life he be count too. 
the baby be star with round eye at the dark of the heaven. ameera place him in holden s arm and he lay there without a cry. 
what shall we call him among ourselves. she say. look. art thou ever tire of look. he carry thy very eye. but the mouth. 
be thine most dear. who should know good than i. 
ti such a feeble mouth. oh so small. and yet it hold my heart between it lip. give him to me now. he ha be too long away. 
nay let him lie. he ha not yet begin to cry. 
when he cry thou wilt give him back eh. what a man of mankind thou art. if he cry he be only the dear to me. but my life what little name shall we give him. 
the small body lay close to holden s heart. it be utterly helpless and very soft. he scarcely dare to breathe for fear of crush it. the cage green parrot that be regard a a sort of guardian spirit in most native household move on it perch and flutter a drowsy wing. 
there be the answer say holden. mian mittu ha speak. he shall be the parrot. when he be ready he will talk mightily and run about. mian mittu be the parrot in thy in the mussulman tongue be it not. 
why put me so far off. say ameera fretfully. let it be like unto some english name but not wholly. for he be mine. 
then call him tota for that be like english. 
ay tota and that be still the parrot. forgive me my lord for a minute ago but in truth he be too little to wear all the weight of mian mittu for name. he shall be tota our tota to u. hearest thou o small one. little thou art tota. she touch the child s cheek and he wake wail and it be necessary to return him to his mother who soothe him with the wonderful rhyme of be koko jare koko. which say. 
oh crow. go crow. baby s sleep sound and the wild plum grow in the jungle only a penny a pound. only a penny a pound baba only a penny a pound. 
reassure many time a to the price of those plum tota cuddle himself down to sleep. the two sleek white well bullock in the courtyard be steadily chew the cud of their even meal. old pir khan squat at the head of holden s horse his police sabre across his knee pull drowsily at a big water pipe that croak like a bull frog in a pond. ameera s mother sit spin in the low verandah and the wooden gate be shut and bar. the music of a marriage procession come to the roof above the gentle hum of the city and a string of fly fox cross the face of the low moon. 
i have pray say ameera after a long pause i have pray for two thing. first that i may die in thy stead if thy death be demand and in the second that i may die in the place of the child. i have pray to the prophet and to beebee miriam [the virgin mary]. thinkest thou either will hear. 
from thy lip who would not hear the light word. 
i ask for straight talk and thou hast give me sweet talk. will my prayer be hear. 
how can i say. god be very good. 
of that i be not sure. listen now. when i die or the child dy what be thy fate. live thou wilt return to the bold white mem log for kind call to kind. 
not always. 
with a woman no. with a man it be otherwise. thou wilt in this life late on go back to thine own folk. that i could almost endure for i should be dead. but in thy very death thou wilt be take away to a strange place and a paradise that i do not know. 
will it be paradise. 
surely for who would harm thee. but we two i and the child shall be elsewhere and we cannot come to thee nor canst thou come to u. in the old day before the child be bear i do not think of these thing. but now i think of them always. it be very hard talk. 
it will fall a it will fall. to morrow we do not know but to day and love we know well. surely we be happy now. 
so happy that it be well to make our happiness assure. and thy beebee miriam should listen to me. for she be also a woman. but then she would envy me. it be not seemly for men to worship a woman. 
holden laugh aloud at ameera s little spasm of jealousy. 
be it not seemly. why didst thou not turn me from worship of thee then. 
thou a worshipper. and of me. my king for all thy sweet word well i know that i be thy servant and thy slave and the dust under thy foot. and i would not have it otherwise. see. 
before holden could prevent her she stoop forward and touch his foot. recover herself with a little laugh she hug tota close to her bosom. then almost savagely. 
be it true that the bold white mem log live for three time the length of my life. be it true that they make their marriage not before they be old woman. 
they marry a do others when they be woman. 
that i know but they wed when they be twenty five. be that true. 
that be true. 
ya illah. at twenty five. who would of his own will take a wife even of eighteen. she be a woman age every hour. twenty five. i shall be an old woman at that age and those mem log remain young for ever. how i hate them. what have they to do with u. 
i cannot tell. i know only that there may now be alive on this earth a woman ten year old than i who may come to thee and take thy love ten year after i be an old woman gray head and the nurse of tota s son. that be unjust and evil. they should die too. 
now for all thy year thou art a child and shalt be pick up and carry down the staircase. 
tota. have a care for tota my lord. thou at least art a foolish a any babe. ameera tuck tota out of harm s way in the hollow of her neck and be carry downstairs laugh in holden s arm while tota open his eye and smile after the manner of the less angel. 
he be a silent infant and almost before holden could realise that he be in the world develop into a small gold colour little god and unquestioned despot of the house overlook the city. those be month of absolute happiness to holden and ameera happiness withdraw from the world shut in behind the wooden gate that pir khan guard. by day holden do his work with an immense pity for such a be not so fortunate a himself and a sympathy for small child that amaze and amuse many mother at the little station gathering. at nightfall he return to ameera ameera full of the wondrous do of tota. how he have be see to clap his hand together and move his finger with intention and purpose which be manifestly a miracle how late he have of his own initiative crawl out of his low bedstead on to the floor and sway on both foot for the space of three breath. 
and they be long breath for my heart stand still with delight say ameera. 
then tota take the beast into his council the well bullock the little gray squirrel the mongoose that live in a hole near the well and especially mian mittu the parrot whose tail he grievously pull and mian mittu scream till ameera and holden arrive. 
o villain. child of strength. this to thy brother on the house top. tobah tobah. fie. fie. but i know a charm to make him wise a suleiman and aflatoun [solomon and plato]. now look say ameera. she draw from an embroider bag a handful of almond. see. we count seven. in the name of god. 
she place mian mittu very angry and rumple on the top of his cage and seat herself between the babe and the bird she crack and peel an almond le white than her teeth. this be a true charm my life and do not laugh. see. i give the parrot one half and tota the other. mian mittu with careful beak take his share from between ameera s lip and she kiss the other half into the mouth of the child who eat it slowly with wonder eye. this i will do each day of seven and without doubt he who be ours will be a bold speaker and wise. eh tota what wilt thou be when thou art a man and i be gray head. tota tuck his fat leg into adorable crease. he could crawl but he be not go to waste the spring of his youth in idle speech. he want mian mittu s tail to tweak. 
when he be advance to the dignity of a silver belt which with a magic square engrave on silver and hang round his neck make up the great part of his clothe he stagger on a perilous journey down the garden to pir khan and proffer him all his jewel in exchange for one little ride on holden s horse have see his mother s mother chaffer with pedlar in the verandah. pir khan weep and set the untried foot on his own gray head in sign of fealty and bring the bold adventurer to his mother s arm vow that tota would be a leader of men ere his beard be grow. 
one hot even while he sit on the roof between his father and mother watch the never end warfare of the kite that the city boy fly he demand a kite of his own with pir khan to fly it because he have a fear of deal with anything large than himself and when holden call him a spark he rise to his foot and answer slowly in defence of his new find individuality hum park nahin hai. hum admi hai [i be no spark but a man]. 
the protest make holden choke and devote himself very seriously to a consideration of tota s future. he need hardly have take the trouble. the delight of that life be too perfect to endure. therefore it be take away a many thing be take away in india suddenly and without warn. the little lord of the house a pir khan call him grow sorrowful and complain of pain who have never know the mean of pain. ameera wild with terror watch him through the night and in the dawn of the second day the life be shake out of him by fever the seasonal autumn fever. it seem altogether impossible that he could die and neither ameera nor holden at first believe the evidence of the little body on the bedstead. then ameera beat her head against the wall and would have fling herself down the well in the garden have holden not restrain her by main force. 
one mercy only be grant to holden. he ride to his office in broad daylight and find wait him an unusually heavy mail that demand concentrate attention and hard work. he be not however alive to this kindness of the god. 
iii. 
the first shock of a bullet be no more than a brisk pinch. the wreck body doe not send in it protest to the soul till ten or fifteen second late. holden realise his pain slowly exactly a he have realise his happiness and with the same imperious necessity for hide all trace of it. in the begin he only felt that there have be a loss and that ameera need comfort where she sit with her head on her knee shiver a mian mittu from the house top call tota. tota. tota. late all his world and the daily life of it rise up to hurt him. it be an outrage that any one of the child at the band stand in the even should be alive and clamorous when his own child lay dead. it be more than mere pain when one of them touch him and story tell by over fond father of their child s late performance cut him to the quick. he could not declare his pain. he have neither help comfort nor sympathy. and ameera at the end of each weary day would lead him through the hell of self question reproach which be reserve for those who have lose a child and believe that with a little just a little more care it might have be save. 
perhaps ameera would say i do not take sufficient heed. do i or do i not. the sun on the roof that day when he play so long alone and i be ahi. braid my hair it may be that the sun then breed the fever. if i have warn him from the sun he might have live. but oh my life say that i be guiltless. thou knowest that i love him a i love thee. say that there be no blame on me or i shall die i shall die. 
there be no blame before god none. it be write and how could we do aught to save. what ha be ha be. let it go beloved. 
he be all my heart to me. how can i let the think go when my arm tell me every night that he be not here. ahi. ahi. o tota come back to me come back again and let u be all together a it be before. 
peace peace. for thine own sake and for mine also if thou lovest me rest. 
by this i know thou dost not care. and how shouldst thou. the white men have heart of stone and soul of iron. oh that i have marry a man of mine own people though he beat me and have never eat the bread of an alien. 
be i an alien mother of my son. 
what else sahib. oh forgive me forgive. the death ha drive me mad. thou art the life of my heart and the light of my eye and the breath of my life and and i have put thee from me though it be but for a moment. if thou go away to whom shall i look for help. do not be angry. indeed it be the pain that speak and not thy slave. 
i know i know. we be two who be three. the great need therefore that we should be one. 
they be sit on the roof a of custom. the night be a warm one in early spring and sheet lightning be dance on the horizon to a break tune play by far off thunder. ameera settle herself in holden s arm. 
the dry earth be low like a cow for the rain and i i be afraid. it be not like this when we count the star. but thou lovest me a much a before though a bond be take away. answer. 
i love more because a new bond ha come out of the sorrow that we have eat together and that thou knowest. 
yea i know say ameera in a very small whisper. but it be good to hear thee say so my life who art so strong to help. i will be a child no more but a woman and an aid to thee. listen. give me my sitar and i will sing bravely. 
she take the light silver stud sitar and begin a song of the great hero rajah rasalu. the hand fail on the string the tune halt check and at a low note turn off to the poor little nursery rhyme about the wicked crow. 
and the wild plum grow in the jungle only a penny a pound. only a penny a pound baba only. 
then come the tear and the piteous rebellion against fate till she sleep moan a little in her sleep with the right arm throw clear of the body a though it protect something that be not there. it be after this night that life become a little easy for holden. the ever present pain of loss drive him into his work and the work repay him by fill up his mind for nine or ten hour a day. ameera sit alone in the house and brood but grow happy when she understand that holden be more at ease accord to the custom of woman. they touch happiness again but this time with caution. 
it be because we love tota that he die. the jealousy of god be upon u say ameera. i have hang up a large black jar before our window to turn the evil eye from u and we must make no protestation of delight but go softly underneath the star l god find u out. be that not good talk worthless one. 
she have shift the accent on the word that mean beloved in proof of the sincerity of her purpose. but the kiss that follow the new christen be a thing that any deity might have envy. they go about henceforward say it be naught it be naught. and hop that all the power hear. 
the power be busy on other thing. they have allow thirty million people four year of plenty wherein men feed well and the crop be certain and the birth rate rise year by year. the district report a purely agricultural population vary from nine hundred to two thousand to the square mile of the overburden earth. and the member for low toot wander about india in pot hat and frock coat talk largely of the benefit of british rule and suggest a the one thing needful the establishment of a duly qualify electoral system and a general bestowal of the franchise. his long suffer host smile and make him welcome and when he pause to admire with pretty pick word the blossom of the blood red dhak tree that have flower untimely for a sign of what be come they smile more than ever. 
it be the deputy commissioner of kot kumharsen stay at the club for a day who lightly tell a tale that make holden s blood run cold a he overhear the end. 
he win t bother any one any more. never saw a man so astonish in my life. by jove i think he mean to ask a question in the house about it. fellow passenger in his ship din next him bowl over by cholera and die in eighteen hour. you needn t laugh you fellow. the member for low toot be awfully angry about it. but he s more scar. i think he s go to take his enlighten self out of india. 
i d give a good deal if he be knock over. it might keep a few vestryman of his kidney to their own parish. but what s this about cholera. it s full early for anything of that kind say the warden of an unprofitable salt lick. 
don t know say the deputy commissioner reflectively. we ve get locust with u. there s sporadic cholera all along the north at least we re call it sporadic for decency s sake. the spring crop be short in five district and nobody seem to know where the rain be. it s nearly march now. i don t want to scare anybody but it seem to me that nature s go to audit her account with a big red pencil this summer. 
just when i want to take leave too. say a voice across the room. 
there win t be much leave this year but there ought to be a great deal of promotion. i ve come in to persuade the government to put my pet canal on the list of famine relief work. it s an ill wind that blow no good. i shall get that canal finish at last. 
be it the old programme then say holden. famine fever and cholera. 
oh no. only local scarcity and an unusual prevalence of seasonal sickness. you ll find it all in the report if you live till next year. you re a lucky chap. you haven t get a wife to send out of harm s way. the hill station ought to be full of woman this year. 
i think you re incline to exaggerate the talk in the bazar say a young civilian in the secretariat. now i have observe. 
i daresay you have say the deputy commissioner but you ve a great deal more to observe my son. in the meantime i wish to observe to you and he draw him aside to discus the construction of the canal that be so dear to his heart. holden go to his bungalow and begin to understand that he be not alone in the world and also that he be afraid for the sake of another which be the most soul satisfy fear know to man. 
two month late a the deputy have foretell nature begin to audit her account with a red pencil. on the heel of the spring reap come a cry for bread and the government which have decree that no man should die of want send wheat. then come the cholera from all four quarter of the compass. it strike a pilgrim gather of half a million at a sacred shrine. many die at the foot of their god. the others break and run over the face of the land carry the pestilence with them. it smite a wall city and kill two hundred a day. the people crowd the train hang on to the footboard and squat on the roof of the carriage and the cholera follow them for at each station they drag out the dead and the die. they die by the roadside and the horse of the englishman shy at the corps in the grass. the rain do not come and the earth turn to iron l man should escape death by hide in her. the english send their wife away to the hill and go about their work come forward a they be bid to fill the gap in the fight line. holden sick with fear of lose his chief treasure on earth have do his best to persuade ameera to go away with her mother to the himalaya. 
why should i go. say she one even on the roof. 
there be sickness and people be die and all the white mem log have go. 
all of them. 
all unless perhaps there remain some old scald head who vex her husband s heart by run risk of death. 
nay. who stay be my sister and thou must not abuse her for i will be a scald head too. i be glad all the bold mem log be go. 
do i speak to a woman or a babe. go to the hill and i will see to it that thou go like a queen s daughter. think child. in a red lacquer bullock cart veil and curtain with brass peacock upon the pole and red cloth hanging. i will send two orderly for guard and. 
peace. thou art the babe in speak thus. what use be those toy to me. he would have pat the bullock and play with the housing. for his sake perhaps thou hast make me very english i might have go. now i will not. let the mem log run. 
their husband be send them beloved. 
very good talk. since when hast thou be my husband to tell me what to do. i have but bear thee a son. thou art only all the desire of my soul to me. how shall i depart when i know that if evil befall thee by the breadth of so much a my little finger nail be that not small. i should be aware of it though i be in paradise. and here this summer thou mayest die ai janee die. and in die they might call to tend thee a white woman and she would rob me in the last of thy love. 
but love be not bear in a moment or on a death bed. 
what dost thou know of love stoneheart. she would take thy thank at least and by god and the prophet and beebee miriam the mother of thy prophet that i will never endure. my lord and my love let there be no more foolish talk of go away. where thou art i be. it be enough. she put an arm round his neck and a hand on his mouth. 
there be not many happiness so complete a those that be snatch under the shadow of the sword. they sit together and laugh call each other openly by every pet name that could move the wrath of the god. the city below them be lock up in it own torment. sulphur fire blaze in the street. the conch in the hindu temple scream and bellow for the god be inattentive in those day. there be a service in the great mahomedan shrine and the call to prayer from the minaret be almost unceasing. they hear the wail in the house of the dead and once the shriek of a mother who have lose a child and be call for it return. in the gray dawn they saw the dead bear out through the city gate each litter with it own little knot of mourner. wherefore they kiss each other and shiver. 
it be a red and heavy audit for the land be very sick and need a little breathe space ere the torrent of cheap life should flood it anew. the child of immature father and undeveloped mother make no resistance. they be cow and sit still wait till the sword should be sheathe in november if it be so will. there be gap among the english but the gap be fill. the work of superintend famine relief cholera shed medicine distribution and what little sanitation be possible go forward because it be so order. 
holden have be tell to keep himself in readiness to move to replace the next man who should fall. there be twelve hour in each day when he could not see ameera and she might die in three. he be consider what his pain would be if he could not see her for three month or if she die out of his sight. he be absolutely certain that her death would be demand so certain that when he look up from the telegram and saw pir khan breathless in the doorway he laugh aloud. and. say he. 
when there be a cry in the night and the spirit flutter into the throat who ha a charm that will restore. come swiftly heaven bear. it be the black cholera. 
holden gallop to his home. the sky be heavy with cloud for the long defer rain be near and the heat be stifle. ameera s mother meet him in the courtyard whimper she be die. she be nurse herself into death. she be all but dead. what shall i do sahib. 
ameera be lie in the room in which tota have be bear. she make no sign when holden enter because the human soul be a very lonely thing and when it be get ready to go away hide itself in a misty borderland where the live may not follow. the black cholera doe it work quietly and without explanation. ameera be be thrust out of life a though the angel of death have himself put his hand upon her. the quick breathe seem to show that she be either afraid or in pain but neither eye nor mouth give any answer to holden s kiss. there be nothing to be say or do. holden could only wait and suffer. the first drop of the rain begin to fall on the roof and he could hear shout of joy in the parch city. 
the soul come back a little and the lip move. holden bend down to listen. keep nothing of mine say ameera. take no hair from my head. she would make thee burn it late on. that flame i should feel. low. stoop low. remember only that i be thine and bore thee a son. though thou wed a white woman to morrow the pleasure of receive in thy arm thy first son be take from thee for ever. remember me when thy son be bear the one that shall carry thy name before all men. his misfortune be on my head. i bear witness i bear witness the lip be form the word on his ear that there be no god but thee beloved. 
then she die. holden sit still and all think be take from him till he hear ameera s mother lift the curtain. 
be she dead sahib. 
she be dead. 
then i will mourn and afterwards take an inventory of the furniture in this house. for that will be mine. the sahib doe not mean to resume it. it be so little so very little sahib and i be an old woman. i would like to lie softly. 
for the mercy of god be silent a while. go out and mourn where i cannot hear. 
sahib she will be bury in four hour. 
i know the custom. i shall go ere she be take away. that matter be in thy hand. look to it that the bed on which on which she lie. 
aha. that beautiful red lacquer bed. i have long desire. 
that the bed be leave here untouched for my disposal. all else in the house be thine. hire a cart take everything go hence and before sunrise let there be nothing in this house but that which i have order thee to respect. 
i be an old woman. i would stay at least for the day of mourn and the rain have just break. whither shall i go. 
what be that to me. my order be that there be a go. the house gear be worth a thousand rupee and my orderly shall bring thee a hundred rupee to night. 
that be very little. think of the cart hire. 
it shall be nothing unless thou go and with speed. o woman get hence and leave me with my dead. 
the mother shuffle down the staircase and in her anxiety to take stock of the house fitting forget to mourn. holden stay by ameera s side and the rain roar on the roof. he could not think connectedly by reason of the noise though he make many attempt to do so. then four sheet ghost glide drip into the room and star at him through their veil. they be the washer of the dead. holden leave the room and go out to his horse. he have come in a dead stifle calm through ankle deep dust. he find the courtyard a rain lash pond alive with frog. a torrent of yellow water run under the gate and a roar wind drive the bolt of the rain like buckshot against the mud wall. pir khan be shiver in his little hut by the gate and the horse be stamp uneasily in the water. 
i have be tell the sahib s order say pir khan. it be well. this house be now desolate. i go also for my monkey face would be a reminder of that which ha be. concern the bed i will bring that to thy house yonder in the morning. but remember sahib it will be to thee a knife turn in a green wind. i go upon a pilgrimage and i will take no money. i have grow fat in the protection of the presence whose sorrow be my sorrow. for the last time i hold his stirrup. 
he touch holden s foot with both hand and the horse spring out into the road where the creak bamboo be whip the sky and all the frog be chuckle. holden could not see for the rain in his face. he put his hand before his eye and mutter. 
oh you brute. you utter brute. 
the news of his trouble be already in his bungalow. he read the knowledge in his butler s eye when ahmed khan bring in food and for the first and last time in his life lay a hand upon his master s shoulder say eat sahib eat. meat be good against sorrow. i also have know. moreover the shadow come and go sahib. the shadow come and go. these be curry egg. 
holden could neither eat nor sleep. the heaven send down eight inch of rain in that night and wash the earth clean. the water tear down wall break road and scour open the shallow graf on the mahomedan bury grind. all next day it rain and holden sit still in his house consider his sorrow. on the morning of the third day he receive a telegram which say only ricketts myndonie. die. holden relieve. immediate. then he think that before he depart he would look at the house wherein he have be master and lord. there be a break in the weather and the rank earth steam with vapour. 
he find that the rain have tear down the mud pillar of the gateway and the heavy wooden gate that have guard his life hang lazily from one hinge. there be grass three inch high in the courtyard. pir khan s lodge be empty and the sodden thatch sag between the beam. a gray squirrel be in possession of the verandah a if the house have be untenanted for thirty year instead of three day. ameera s mother have remove everything except some mildew mat. the tick tick of the little scorpion a they hurry across the floor be the only sound in the house. ameera s room and the other one where tota have live be heavy with mildew. and the narrow staircase lead to the roof be streak and stain with rain bear mud. holden saw all these thing and come out again to meet in the road durga das his landlord portly affable clothe in white muslin and drive a cee spring buggy. he be overlook his property to see how the roof stand the stress of the first rain. 
i have hear say he you will not take this place any more sahib. 
what be you go to do with it. 
perhaps i shall let it again. 
then i will keep it on while i be away. 
durga das be silent for some time. you shall not take it on sahib he say. when i be a young man i also but to day i be a member of the municipality. ho. ho. no. when the bird have go what need to keep the nest. i will have it pull down the timber will sell for something always. it shall be pull down and the municipality shall make a road across a they desire from the burn ghat to the city wall so that no man may say where this house stand. 
at the end of the passage. 
the sky be lead and our face be red and the gate of hell be open and rive and the wind of hell be loosen and drive and the dust fly up in the face of heaven and the cloud come down in a fiery sheet heavy to raise and hard to be bear. and the soul of man be turn from his meat turn from the trifle for which he ha strive sick in his body and heavy hearted and his soul fly up like the dust in the sheet break from his flesh and be go and depart a the blast they blow on the cholera horn. himalayan. 
four men each entitle to life liberty and the pursuit of happiness sit at a table play whist. the thermometer mark for them one hundred and one degree of heat. the room be darken till it be only just possible to distinguish the pip of the card and the very white face of the player. a tattered rotten punkah of whitewash calico be puddle the hot air and whine dolefully at each stroke. outside lay gloom of a november day in london. there be neither sky sun nor horizon nothing but a brown purple haze of heat. it be a though the earth be die of apoplexy. 
from time to time cloud of tawny dust rise from the grind without wind or warn fling themselves tablecloth wise among the top of the parch tree and come down again. then a whirl dust devil would scutter across the plain for a couple of mile break and fall outward though there be nothing to check it flight save a long low line of pile railway sleeper white with the dust a cluster of hut make of mud condemn rail and canvas and the one squat four room bungalow that belong to the assistant engineer in charge of a section of the gaudhari state line then under construction. 
the four strip to the thin of sleep suit play whist crossly with wrangling a to lead and return. it be not the best kind of whist but they have take some trouble to arrive at it. mottram of the indian survey have ride thirty and rail one hundred mile from his lonely post in the desert since the night before. lowndes of the civil service on special duty in the political department have come a far to escape for an instant the miserable intrigue of an impoverish native state whose king alternately fawn and bluster for more money from the pitiful revenue contribute by hard wring peasant and despair camel breeder. spurstow the doctor of the line have leave a cholera stricken camp of cooly to look after itself for forty eight hour while he associate with white men once more. hummil the assistant engineer be the host. he stand fast and receive his friend thus every sunday if they could come in. when one of them fail to appear he would send a telegram to his last address in order that he might know whether the defaulter be dead or alive. there be very many place in the east where it be not good or kind to let your acquaintance drop out of sight even for one short week. 
the player be not conscious of any special regard for each other. they squabble whenever they meet. but they ardently desire to meet a men without water desire to drink. they be lonely folk who understand the dread mean of loneliness. they be all under thirty year of age which be too soon for any man to posse that knowledge. 
pilsener. say spurstow after the second rubber mop his forehead. 
beer s out i m sorry to say and there s hardly enough soda water for to night say hummil. 
what filthy bad management. spurstow snarl. 
can t help it. i ve write and wire. but the train don t come through regularly yet. last week the ice run out a lowndes know. 
glad i didn t come. i could ha send you some if i have know though. phew. it s too hot to go on play bumblepuppy. this with a savage scowl at lowndes who only laugh. he be a harden offender. 
mottram rise from the table and look out of a chink in the shutter. 
what a sweet day. say he. 
the company yawn all together and betook themselves to an aimless investigation of all hummil s possession gun tattered novel saddlery spur and the like. they have finger them a score of time before but there be really nothing else to do. 
get anything fresh. say lowndes. 
last week s gazette of india and a cut from a home paper. my father send it out. it s rather amuse. 
one of those vestryman that call emselves m. p. s again be it. say spurstow who read his newspaper when he could get them. 
yes. listen to this. it s to your address lowndes. the man be make a speech to his constituent and he pile it on. here s a sample. and i assert unhesitatingly that the civil service in india be the preserve the pet preserve of the aristocracy of england. what doe the democracy what do the mass get from that country which we have step by step fraudulently annex. i answer nothing whatever. it be farm with a single eye to their own interest by the scion of the aristocracy. they take good care to maintain their lavish scale of income to avoid or stifle any inquiry into the nature and conduct of their administration while they themselves force the unhappy peasant to pay with the sweat of his brow for all the luxury in which they be lap. hummil wave the cut above his head. ear. ear. say his audience. 
then lowndes meditatively. i d give i d give three month pay to have that gentleman spend one month with me and see how the free and independent native prince work thing. old timbersides this be his flippant title for an honour and decorate feudatory prince ha be wear my life out this week past for money. by jove his late performance be to send me one of his woman a a bribe. 
good for you. do you accept it. say mottram. 
no. i rather wish i have now. she be a pretty little person and she yarn away to me about the horrible destitution among the king s woman folk. the darling haven t have any new clothe for nearly a month and the old man want to buy a new drag from calcutta solid silver railing and silver lamp and trifle of that kind. i ve try to make him understand that he ha play the deuce with the revenue for the last twenty year and must go slow. he can t see it. 
but he ha the ancestral treasure vault to draw on. there must be three million at least in jewel and coin under his palace say hummil. 
catch a native king disturb the family treasure. the priest forbid it except a the last resort. old timbersides ha add something like a quarter of a million to the deposit in his reign. 
where the mischief doe it all come from. say mottram. 
the country. the state of the people be enough to make you sick. i ve know the tax men wait by a milch camel till the foal be bear and then hurry off the mother for arrears. and what can i do. i can t get the court clerk to give me any account. i can t raise anything more than a fat smile from the commander in chief when i find out the troop be three month in arrears. and old timbersides begin to weep when i speak to him. he ha take to the king s peg heavily liqueur brandy for whisky and heidsieck for soda water. 
that s what the rao of jubela take to. even a native can t last long at that say spurstow. he ll go out. 
and a good thing too. then i suppose we ll have a council of regency and a tutor for the young prince and hand him back his kingdom with ten year accumulation. 
whereupon that young prince have be teach all the vice of the english will play duck and drake with the money and undo ten year work in eighteen month. i ve see that business before say spurstow. i should tackle the king with a light hand if i be you lowndes. they ll hate you quite enough under any circumstance. 
that s all very well. the man who look on can talk about the light hand. but you can t clean a pig stye with a pen dip in rise water. i know my risk. but nothing ha happen yet. my servant s an old pathan and he cook for me. they be hardly likely to bribe him and i don t accept food from my true friend a they call themselves. oh but it s weary work. i d sooner be with you spurstow. there s shoot near your camp. 
would you. i don t think it. about fifteen death a day don t incite a man to shoot anything but himself. and the bad of it be that the poor devil look at you a though you ought to save them. lord know i ve try everything. my last attempt be empirical but it pull an old man through. he be bring to me apparently past hope and i give him gin and worcester sauce with cayenne. it cure him. but i don t recommend it. 
how do the case run generally. say hummil. 
very simply indeed. chlorodyne opium pill chlorodyne collapse nitre brick to the foot and then the burn ghat. the last seem to be the only thing that stop the trouble. it s black cholera you know. poor devil. but i will say little bunsee lal my apothecary work like a demon. i ve recommend him for promotion if he come through it all alive. 
and what be your chance old man. say mottram. 
don t know. don t care much. but i ve send the letter in. what be you do with yourself generally. 
sit under a table in the tent and spit on the sextant to keep it cool say the man of the survey. wash my eye to avoid ophthalmia which i shall certainly get and try to make a sub surveyor understand that an error of five degree in an angle isn t quite so small a it look. i m altogether alone y know and shall be till the end of the hot weather. 
hummil s the lucky man say lowndes fling himself into a long chair. he ha an actual roof tear a to the ceiling cloth but still a roof over his head. he see one train daily. he can get beer and soda water and ice em when god be good. he ha book picture they be tear from the graphic and the society of the excellent sub contractor jevins besides the pleasure of receive u weekly. 
hummil smile grimly. yes i m the lucky man i suppose. jevins be lucky. 
how. not. 
yes. go out. last monday. 
by his own hand. say spurstow quickly hint the suspicion that be in everybody s mind. there be no cholera near hummil s section. even fever give a man at least a week s grace and sudden death generally imply self slaughter. 
i judge no man this weather say hummil. he have a touch of the sun i fancy. for last week after you fellow have leave he come into the verandah and tell me that he be go home to see his wife in market street liverpool that even. 
i get the apothecary in to look at him and we try to make him lie down. after an hour or two he rub his eye and say he believe he have have a fit hop he hadn t say anything rude. jevins have a great idea of better himself socially. he be very like chuck in his language. 
well. 
then he go to his own bungalow and begin clean a rifle. he tell the servant that he be go to shoot buck in the morning. naturally he fumble with the trigger and shoot himself through the head accidentally. the apothecary send in a report to my chief and jevins be bury somewhere out there. i d have wire to you spurstow if you could have do anything. 
you re a queer chap say mottram. if you d kill the man yourself you couldn t have be more quiet about the business. 
good lord. what doe it matter. say hummil calmly. i ve get to do a lot of his oversee work in addition to my own. i m the only person that suffer. jevins be out of it by pure accident of course but out of it. the apothecary be go to write a long screed on suicide. trust a babu to drivel when he get the chance. 
why didn t you let it go in a suicide. say lowndes. 
no direct proof. a man hasn t many privilege in this country but he might at least be allow to mishandle his own rifle. besides some day i may need a man to smother up an accident to myself. live and let live. die and let die. 
you take a pill say spurstow who have be watch hummil s white face narrowly. take a pill and don t be an as. that sort of talk be skittle. anyhow suicide be shirk your work. if i be job ten time over i should be so interest in what be go to happen next that i d stay on and watch. 
ah. i ve lose that curiosity say hummil. 
liver out of order. say lowndes feelingly. 
no. can t sleep. that s bad. 
by jove it be. say mottram. i m that way every now and then and the fit ha to wear itself out. what do you take for it. 
nothing. what s the use. i haven t have ten minute sleep since friday morning. 
poor chap. spurstow you ought to attend to this say mottram. now you mention it your eye be rather gummy and swell. 
spurstow still watch hummil laugh lightly. i ll patch him up late on. be it too hot do you think to go for a ride. 
where to. say lowndes wearily. we shall have to go away at eight and there ll be rid enough for u then. i hate a horse when i have to use him a a necessity. oh heaven. what be there to do. 
begin whist again at chick point [ a chick be suppose to be eight shillings] and a gold mohur on the rub say spurstow promptly. 
poker. a month s pay all round for the pool no limit and fifty rupee raise. somebody would be break before we get up say lowndes. 
can t say that it would give me any pleasure to break any man in this company say mottram. there isn t enough excitement in it and it s foolish. he cross over to the wear and batter little camp piano wreckage of a marry household that have once hold the bungalow and open the case. 
it s use up long ago say hummil. the servant have pick it to piece. 
the piano be indeed hopelessly out of order but mottram manage to bring the rebellious note into a sort of agreement and there rise from the rag keyboard something that might once have be the ghost of a popular music hall song. the men in the long chair turn with evident interest a mottram bang the more lustily. 
that s good. say lowndes. by jove. the last time i hear that song be in or thereabouts just before i come out. 
ah. say spurstow with pride i be home in. and he mention a song of the street popular at that date. 
mottram execute it roughly. lowndes criticise and volunteer emendation. mottram dash into another ditty not of the music hall character and make a if to rise. 
sit down say hummil. i didn t know that you have any music in your composition. go on play until you can t think of anything more. i ll have that piano tune up before you come again. play something festive. 
very simple indeed be the tune to which mottram s art and the limitation of the piano could give effect but the men listen with pleasure and in the pause talk all together of what they have see or hear when they be last at home. a dense dust storm spring up outside and sweep roar over the house envelop it in the choke darkness of midnight but mottram continue unheeding and the crazy tinkle reach the ear of the listener above the flap of the tattered ceiling cloth. 
in the silence after the storm he glide from the more directly personal song of scotland half hum them a he play into the even hymn. 
sunday say he nod his head. 
go on. don t apologise for it say spurstow. 
hummil laugh long and riotously. play it by all mean. you re full of surprise to day. i didn t know you have such a gift of finish sarcasm. how doe that thing go. 
mottram take up the tune. 
too slow by half. you miss the note of gratitude say hummil. it ought to go to the grasshopper s polka this way. and he chant prestissimo. 
glory to thee my god this night. for all the blessing of the light. 
that show we really feel our blessing. how doe it go on. 
if in the night i sleepless lie my soul with sacred thought supply. may no ill dream disturb my rest. 
quick mottram. 
or power of darkness me molest. 
bah. what an old hypocrite you be. 
don t be an as say lowndes. you be at full liberty to make fun of anything else you like but leave that hymn alone. it s associate in my mind with the most sacred recollection. 
summer evening in the country stain glass window light go out and you and she jam your head together over one hymn book say mottram. 
yes and a fat old cockchafer hit you in the eye when you walk home. smell of hay and a moon a big a a bandbox sit on the top of a haycock. bat rose milk and midge say lowndes. 
also mother. i can just recollect my mother sing me to sleep with that when i be a little chap say spurstow. 
the darkness have fall on the room. they could hear hummil squirm in his chair. 
consequently say he testily you sing it when you be seven fathom deep in hell. it s an insult to the intelligence of the deity to pretend we re anything but torture rebel. 
take two pill say spurstow. that s torture liver. 
the usually placid hummil be in a vile bad temper. i m sorry for his cooly to morrow say lowndes a the servant bring in the light and prepare the table for dinner. 
a they be settle into their place about the miserable goat chop and the smoke tapioca pudding spurstow take occasion to whisper to mottram well do david. 
look after saul then be the reply. 
what be you two whisper about. say hummil suspiciously. 
only say that you be a damn poor host. this fowl can t be cut return spurstow with a sweet smile. call this a dinner. 
i can t help it. you don t expect a banquet do you. 
throughout that meal hummil contrive laboriously to insult directly and pointedly all his guest in succession and at each insult spurstow kick the aggrieve person under the table. but he dare not exchange a glance of intelligence with either of them. hummil s face be white and pinch while his eye be unnaturally large. no man dream for a moment of resent his savage personality but a soon a the meal be over they make haste to get away. don t go. you re just get amuse you fellow. i hope i haven t say anything that annoy you. you re such touchy devil. then change the note into one of almost abject entreaty hummil add i say you surely aren t go. 
in the language of the bless jorrocks where i din i sleep say spurstow. i want to have a look at your cooly to morrow if you don t mind. you can give me a place to lie down in i suppose. 
the others plead the urgency of their several duty next day and saddle up depart together hummil beg them to come next sunday. a they jog off lowndes unbosom himself to mottram. 
and i never felt so like kick a man at his own table in my life. he say i cheat at whist and remind me i be in debt. tell you you be a good a a liar to your face. you aren t half indignant enough over it. 
not i say mottram. poor devil. do you ever know old hummy behave like that before or within a hundred mile of it. 
that s no excuse. spurstow be hack my shin all the time so i keep a hand on myself. else i should have. 
no you wouldn t. you d have do a hummy do about jevins. judge no man this weather. by jove. the buckle of my bridle be hot in my hand. trot out a bite and ware rat hole. 
ten minute trot jerk out of lowndes one very sage remark when he pull up sweat from every pore. 
good thing spurstow s with him to night. 
ye e. good man spurstow. our road turn here. see you again next sunday if the sun doesn t bowl me over. 
s pose so unless old timbersides finance minister manage to dress some of my food. good night and god bless you. 
what s wrong now. 
oh nothing. lowndes gather up his whip and a he flick mottram s mare on the flank add you re not a bad little chap that s all. and the mare bolt half a mile across the sand on the word. 
in the assistant engineer s bungalow spurstow and hummil smoke the pipe of silence together each narrowly watch the other. the capacity of a bachelor s establishment be a elastic a it arrangement be simple. a servant clear away the din room table bring in a couple of rude native bedstead make of tape string on a light wood frame fling a square of cool calcutta mat over each set them side by side pin two towel to the punkah so that their fringe should just sweep clear of the sleeper nose and mouth and announce that the couch be ready. 
the men fling themselves down order the punkah cooly by all the power of hell to pull. every door and window be shut for the outside air be that of an oven. the atmosphere within be only degree a the thermometer bore witness and heavy with the foul smell of badly trim kerosene lamp. and this stench combine with that of native tobacco bake brick and dry earth send the heart of many a strong man down to his boot for it be the smell of the great indian empire when she turn herself for six month into a house of torment. spurstow pack his pillow craftily so that he recline rather than lay his head at a safe elevation above his foot. it be not good to sleep on a low pillow in the hot weather if you happen to be of thick neck build for you may pas with lively snore and guggle from natural sleep into the deep slumber of heat apoplexy. 
pack your pillow say the doctor sharply a he saw hummil prepare to lie down at full length. 
the night light be trim. the shadow of the punkah waver across the room and the flick of the punkah towel and the soft whine of the rope through the wall hole follow it. then the punkah flag almost cease. the sweat pour from spurstow s brow. should he go out and harangue the coolie. it start forward again with a savage jerk and a pin come out of the towel. when this be replace a tomtom in the coolie line begin to beat with the steady throb of a swell artery inside some brain fevered skull. spurstow turn on his side and swear gently. there be no movement on hummil s part. the man have compose himself a rigidly a a corpse his hand clinch at his side. the respiration be too hurry for any suspicion of sleep. spurstow look at the set face. the jaw be clinch and there be a pucker round the quiver eyelid. 
he s hold himself a tightly a ever he can think spurstow. what in the world be the matter with him. hummil. 
yes in a thick constrain voice. 
can t you get to sleep. 
no. 
head hot. throat feel bulgy. or how. 
neither thank. i don t sleep much you know. 
feel pretty bad. 
pretty bad thank. there be a tomtom outside isn t there. i think it be my head at first. oh spurstow for pity s sake give me something that will put me asleep sound asleep if it s only for six hour. he spring up tremble from head to foot. i haven t be able to sleep naturally for day and i can t stand it. i can t stand it. 
poor old chap. 
that s no use. give me something to make me sleep. i tell you i m nearly mad. i don t know what i say half my time. for three week i ve have to think and spell out every word that ha come through my lip before i dare say it. isn t that enough to drive a man mad. i can t see thing correctly now and i ve lose my sense of touch. my skin ache my skin ache. make me sleep. oh spurstow for the love of god make me sleep sound. it isn t enough merely to let me dream. let me sleep. 
all right old man all right. go slow. you aren t half a bad a you think. 
the flood gate of reserve once break hummil be cling to him like a frighten child. you re pinch my arm to piece. 
i ll break your neck if you don t do something for me. no i didn t mean that. don t be angry old fellow. he wipe the sweat off himself a he fight to regain composure. i m a bite restless and off my oat and perhaps you could recommend some sort of sleep mixture bromide of potassium. 
bromide of skittle. why didn t you tell me this before. let go of my arm and i ll see if there s anything in my cigarette case to suit your complaint. spurstow hunt among his day clothe turn up the lamp open a little silver cigarette case and advance on the expectant hummil with the dainty of fairy squirt. 
the last appeal of civilisation say he and a thing i hate to use. hold out your arm. well your sleeplessness hasn t ruin your muscle. and what a thick hide it be. might a well inject a buffalo subcutaneously. now in a few minute the morphia will begin work. lie down and wait. 
a smile of unalloyed and idiotic delight begin to creep over hummil s face. i think he whisper i think i m go off now. gad. it s positively heavenly. spurstow you must give me that case to keep. you the voice cease a the head fell back. 
not for a good deal say spurstow to the unconscious form. and now my friend sleeplessness of your kind be very apt to relax the moral fibre in little matter of life and death i ll just take the liberty of spike your gun. 
he paddle into hummil s saddle room in his bare foot and uncase a twelve bore rifle an express and a revolver. of the first he unscrew the nipple and hide them in the bottom of a saddlery case. of the second he abstract the lever kick it behind a big wardrobe. the third he merely open and knock the doll head bolt of the grip up with the heel of a rid boot. 
that s settle he say a he shake the sweat off his hand. these little precaution will at least give you time to turn. you have too much sympathy with gun room accident. 
and a he rise from his knee the thick muffle voice of hummil cry in the doorway you fool. 
such tone they use who speak in the lucid interval of delirium to their friend a little before they die. 
spurstow start drop the pistol. hummil stand in the doorway rock with helpless laughter. 
that be awf ly good of you i m sure he say very slowly feel for his word. i don t intend to go out by my own hand at present. i say spurstow that stuff win t work. what shall i do. what shall i do. and panic terror stand in his eye. 
lie down and give it a chance. lie down at once. 
i daren t. it will only take me half way again and i shan t be able to get away this time. do you know it be all i could do to come out just now. generally i be a quick a lightning. but you have clog my foot. i be nearly catch. 
oh yes i understand. go and lie down. 
no it isn t delirium. but it be an awfully mean trick to play on me. do you know i might have die. 
a a sponge rub a slate clean so some power unknown to spurstow have wipe out of hummil s face all that stamp it for the face of a man and he stand at the doorway in the expression of his lose innocence. he have sleep back into terrify childhood. 
be he go to die on the spot. think spurstow. then aloud all right my son. come back to bed and tell me all about it. you couldn t sleep. but what be all the rest of the nonsense. 
a place a place down there say hummil with simple sincerity. the drug be act on him by wave and he be fling from the fear of a strong man to the fright of a child a his nerve gather sense or be dull. 
good god. i ve be afraid of it for month past spurstow. it ha make every night hell to me. and yet i m not conscious of have do anything wrong. 
be still and i ll give you another dose. we ll stop your nightmare you unutterable idiot. 
yes but you must give me so much that i can t get away. you must make me quite sleepy not just a little sleepy. it s so hard to run then. 
i know it. i know it. i ve felt it myself. the symptom be exactly a you describe. 
oh don t laugh at me confound you. before this awful sleeplessness come to me i ve try to rest on my elbow and put a spur in the bed to sting me when i fell back. look. 
by jove. the man ha be rowelled like a horse. ride by the nightmare with a vengeance. and we all think him sensible enough. heaven send u understand. you like to talk don t you. 
yes sometimes. not when i m frighten. then i want to run. don t you. 
always. before i give you your second dose try to tell me exactly what your trouble be. 
hummil speak in break whisper for nearly ten minute whilst spurstow look into the pupil of his eye and pass his hand before them once or twice. 
at the end of the narrative the silver cigarette case be produce and the last word that hummil say a he fell back for the second time be put me quite to sleep. for if i m catch i die i die. 
yes yes. we all do that sooner or late thank heaven who ha set a term to our misery say spurstow settle the cushion under the head. it occur to me that unless i drink something i shall go out before my time. i ve stop sweat and i wear a seventeen inch collar. he brew himself scald hot tea which be an excellent remedy against heat apoplexy if you take three or four cup of it in time. then he watch the sleeper. 
a blind face that cry and can t wipe it eye a blind face that chase him down corridor. h m. decidedly hummil ought to go on leave a soon a possible. and sane or otherwise he undoubtedly do rowel himself most cruelly. well heaven send u understand. 
at mid day hummil rise with an evil taste in his mouth but an unclouded eye and a joyful heart. 
i be pretty bad last night wasn t i. say he. 
i have see healthy men. you must have have a touch of the sun. look here. if i write you a swinge medical certificate will you apply for leave on the spot. 
no. 
why not. you want it. 
yes but i can hold on till the weather s a little cool. 
why should you if you can get relieve on the spot. 
burkett be the only man who could be send. and he s a bear fool. 
oh never mind about the line. you aren t so important a all that. wire for leave if necessary. 
hummil look very uncomfortable. 
i can hold on till the rain he say evasively. 
you can t. wire to headquarter for burkett. 
i win t. if you want to know why particularly burkett be marry and his wife s just have a kid and she s up at simla in the cool and burkett ha a very nice billet that take him into simla from saturday to monday. that little woman isn t at all well. if burkett be transfer she d try to follow him. if she leave the baby behind she d fret herself to death. if she come and burkett s one of those selfish little beast who be always talk about a wife s place be with her husband she d die. it s murder to bring a woman here just now. burkett hasn t the physique of a rat. if he come here he d go out. and i know she hasn t any money and i m pretty sure she d go out too. i m salt in a sort of way and i m not marry. wait till the rain and then burkett can get thin down here. it ll do him heap of good. 
do you mean to say that you intend to face what you have face till the rain break. 
oh it win t be so bad now you ve show me a way out of it. i can always wire to you. besides now i ve once get into the way of sleep it ll be all right. anyhow i shan t put in for leave. that s the long and the short of it. 
my great scott. i think all that sort of thing be dead and do with. 
bosh. you d do the same yourself. i feel a new man thank to that cigarette case. you re go over to camp now aren t you. 
yes. but i ll try to look you up every other day if i can. 
i m not bad enough for that. i don t want you to bother. give the cooly gin and ketchup. 
then you feel all right. 
fit to fight for my life but not to stand out in the sun talk to you. go along old man and bless you. 
hummil turn on his heel to face the echo desolation of his bungalow and the first thing he saw stand in the verandah be the figure of himself. he have meet a similar apparition once before when he be suffer from overwork and the strain of the hot weather. 
this be bad already he say rub his eye. if the thing slide away from me all in one piece like a ghost i shall know it be only my eye and stomach that be out of order. if it walk my head be go. 
he approach the figure which naturally keep at an unvarying distance from him a be the use of all spectre that be bear of overwork. it slide through the house and dissolve into swim speck within the eyeball a soon a it reach the burn light of the garden. hummil go about his business till even. when he come in to dinner he find himself sit at the table. the vision rise and walk out hastily. except that it cast no shadow it be in all respect real. 
no live man know what that week hold for hummil. an increase of the epidemic keep spurstow in camp among the cooly and all he could do be to telegraph to mottram bid him go to the bungalow and sleep there. but mottram be forty mile away from the near telegraph and know nothing of anything save the need of the survey till he meet early on sunday morning lowndes and spurstow head towards hummil s for the weekly gather. 
hope the poor chap s in a good temper say the former swing himself off his horse at the door. i suppose he isn t up yet. 
i ll just have a look at him say the doctor. if he s asleep there s no need to wake him. 
and an instant late by the tone of spurstow s voice call upon them to enter the men know what have happen. there be no need to wake him. 
the punkah be still be pull over the bed but hummil have depart this life at least three hour. 
the body lay on it back hand clinch by the side a spurstow have see it lie seven night previously. in the star eye be write terror beyond the expression of any pen. 
mottram who have enter behind lowndes bend over the dead and touch the forehead lightly with his lip. oh you lucky lucky devil. he whisper. 
but lowndes have see the eye and withdraw shudder to the other side of the room. 
poor chap. poor old chap. and the last time i meet him i be angry. spurstow we should have watch him. ha he. 
deftly spurstow continue his investigation end by a search round the room. 
no he hasn t he snap. there s no trace of anything. call the servant. 
they come eight or ten of them whisper and peer over each other s shoulder. 
when do your sahib go to bed. say spurstow. 
at eleven or ten we think say hummil s personal servant. 
he be well then. but how should you know. 
he be not ill a far a our comprehension extend. but he have sleep very little for three night. this i know because i saw him walk much and specially in the heart of the night. 
a spurstow be arrange the sheet a big straight neck hunt spur tumble on the grind. the doctor groan. the personal servant peep at the body. 
what do you think chuma. say spurstow catch the look on the dark face. 
heaven bear in my poor opinion this that be my master ha descend into the dark place and there ha be catch because he be not able to escape with sufficient speed. we have the spur for evidence that he fight with fear. thus have i see men of my race do with thorn when a spell be lay upon them to overtake them in their sleep hour and they dare not sleep. 
chuma you re a mud head. go out and prepare seal to be set on the sahib s property. 
god ha make the heaven bear. god ha make me. who be we to inquire into the dispensation of god. i will bid the other servant hold aloof while you be reckon the tale of the sahib s property. they be all thief and would steal. 
a far a i can make out he die from oh anything. stoppage of the heart s action heat apoplexy or some other visitation say spurstow to his companion. we must make an inventory of his effect and so on. 
he be scar to death insist lowndes. look at those eye. for pity s sake don t let him be bury with them open. 
whatever it be he s clear of all the trouble now say mottram softly. 
spurstow be peer into the open eye. 
come here say he. can you see anything there. 
i can t face it. whimper lowndes. cover up the face. be there any fear on earth that can turn a man into that liken. it s ghastly. oh spurstow cover it up. 
no fear on earth say spurstow. mottram lean over his shoulder and look intently. 
i see nothing except some gray blur in the pupil. there can be nothing there you know. 
even so. well let s think. it ll take half a day to knock up any sort of coffin. and he must have die at midnight. lowndes old man go out and tell the cooly to break grind next to jevins s grave. mottram go round the house with chuma and see that the seal be put on thing. send a couple of men to me here and i ll arrange. 
the strong arm servant when they return to their own kind tell a strange story of the doctor sahib vainly try to call their master back to life by magic art to wit the hold of a little green box that click to each of the dead man s eye and of a bewilder mutter on the part of the doctor sahib who take the little green box away with him. 
the resonant hammer of a coffin lid be no pleasant thing to hear but those who have experience maintain that much more terrible be the soft swish of the bed linen the reeve and unreeving of the bed tape when he who ha fall by the roadside be apparelled for burial sink gradually a the tape be tie over till the swaddle shape touch the floor and there be no protest against the indignity of hasty disposal. 
at the last moment lowndes be seize with scruple of conscience. ought you to read the service from begin to end. say he to spurstow. 
i intend to. you re my senior a a civilian. you can take it if you like. 
i didn t mean that for a moment. i only think if we could get a chaplain from somewhere i m will to ride anywhere and give poor hummil a good chance. that s all. 
bosh. say spurstow a he frame his lip to the tremendous word that stand at the head of the burial service. 
after breakfast they smoke a pipe in silence to the memory of the dead. then spurstow say absently. 
tisn t in medical science. 
what. 
thing in a dead man s eye. 
for goodness sake leave that horror alone. say lowndes. i ve see a native die of pure fright when a tiger chivy him. i know what kill hummil. 
the deuce you do. i m go to try to see. and the doctor retreat into the bath room with a kodak camera. after a few minute there be the sound of something be hammer to piece and he emerge very white indeed. 
have you get a picture. say mottram. what doe the thing look like. 
it be impossible of course. you needn t look mottram. i ve tear up the film. there be nothing there. it be impossible. 
that say lowndes very distinctly watch the shake hand strive to relight the pipe be a damn lie. 
mottram laugh uneasily. spurstow s right he say. we re all in such a state now that we d believe anything. for pity s sake let s try to be rational. 
there be no further speech for a long time. the hot wind whistle without and the dry tree sob. presently the daily train wink brass burnish steel and spout steam pull up pant in the intense glare. we d good go on on that say spurstow. go back to work. i ve write my certificate. we can t do any more good here and work ll keep our wit together. come on. 
no one move. it be not pleasant to face railway journey at mid day in june. spurstow gather up his hat and whip and turn in the doorway say. 
there may be heaven there must be hell. meantime there be our life here. we ell. 
neither mottram nor lowndes have any answer to the question. 
the mutiny of the maverick. 
sec. { cause } { in force } regular force. i. { consipiring } { belong } reserve force { with other } a mutiny { to her } auxiliary force. { person to } sedition { majesty s } navy. { cause }. 
when three obscure gentleman in san francisco argue on insufficient premise they condemn a fellow creature to a most unpleasant death in a far country which have nothing whatever to do with the unite state. they foregather at the top of a tenement house in tehama street an unsavoury quarter of the city and there call for certain drink they conspire because they be conspirator by trade officially know a the third three of the i. a. a. an institution for the propagation of pure light not to be confound with any others though it be affiliate to many. the second three live in montreal and work among the poor there. the first three have their home in new york not far from castle garden and write regularly once a week to a small house near one of the big hotel at boulogne. what happen after that a particular section of scotland yard know too well and laugh at. a conspirator detest ridicule. more men have be stab with lucrezia borgia dagger and drop into the thames for laugh at head centre and triangle than for betray secret. for this be human nature. 
the third three conspire over whisky cocktail and a clean sheet of notepaper against the british empire and all that lay therein. this work be very like what men without discernment call politics before a general election. you pick out and discus in the company of congenial friend all the weak point in your opponent organisation and unconsciously dwell upon and exaggerate all their mishap till it seem to you a miracle that the hat party hold together for an hour. 
our principle be not so much active demonstration that we leave to others a passive embarrassment to weaken and unnerve say the first man. wherever an organisation be cripple wherever a confusion be throw into any branch of any department we gain a step for those who take on the work. we be but the forerunner. he be a german enthusiast and editor of a newspaper from whose lead article he quote frequently. 
that curse empire make so many blunder of her own that unless we double the year s average i guess it wouldn t strike her anything special have occur say the second man. be you prepare to say that all our resource be equal to blow off the muzzle of a hundred ton gun or spike a ten thousand ton ship on a plain rock in clear daylight. they can beat u at our own game. good join hand with the practical branch. we re in fund now. try a direct scare in a crowd street. they value their greasy hide. he be the drag upon the wheel and an americanise irishman of the second generation despise his own race and hat the other. he have learn caution. 
the third man drink his cocktail and speak no word. he be the strategist but unfortunately his knowledge of life be limit. he pick a letter from his breast pocket and throw it across the table. that epistle to the heathen contain some very concise direction from the first three in new york. it say. 
the boom in black iron ha already affect the eastern market where our agent have be force down the english hold stock among the small buyer who watch the turn of share. any immediate operation such a western bear would increase their willingness to unload. this however cannot be expect till they see clearly that foreign iron master be witting to co operate. mulcahy should be dispatch to feel the pulse of the market and act accordingly. maverick be at present the best for our purpose. p. d. q. 
a a message refer to an iron crisis in pennsylvania it be interest if not lucid. a a new departure in organise attack on an outlying english dependency it be more than interest. 
the second man read it through and murmur. 
already. surely they be in too great a hurry. all that dhulip singh could do in india he ha do down to the distribution of his photograph among the peasantry. ho. ho. the paris firm arrange that and he ha no substantial money back from the other power. even our agent in india know he hasn t. what be the use of our organisation waste men on work that be already do. of course the irish regiment in india be half mutinous a they stand. 
this show how near a lie may come to the truth. an irish regiment for just so long a it stand still be generally a hard handful to control be reckless and rough. when however it be move in the direction of musketry fire it become strangely and unpatriotically content with it lot. it ha even be hear to cheer the queen with enthusiasm on these occasion. 
but the notion of tamper with the army be from the point of view of tehama street an altogether sound one. there be no shadow of stability in the policy of an english government and the most sacred oath of england would even if engross on vellum find very few buyer among colony and dependency that have suffer from vain belief. but there remain to england always her army. that cannot change except in the matter of uniform and equipment. the officer may write to the paper demand the head of the horse guard in default of clean redress for grievance. the men may break loose across a country town and seriously startle the publican. but neither officer nor men have it in their composition to mutiny after the continental manner. the english people when they trouble to think about the army at all be and with justice absolutely assure that it be absolutely trustworthy. imagine for a moment their emotion on realise that such and such a regiment be in open revolt from cause directly due to england s management of ireland. they would probably send the regiment to the poll forthwith and examine their own conscience a to their duty to erin. but they would never be easy any more. and it be this vague unhappy mistrust that the i. a. a. be labour to produce. 
sheer waste of breath say the second man after a pause in the council i don t see the use of tamper with their fool army but it ha be try before and we must try it again. it look well in the report. if we send one man from here you may bet your life that other men be go too. order up mulcahy. 
they order him up a slim slight dark haired young man devour with that blind rancorous hatred of england that only reach it full growth across the atlantic. he have suck it from his mother s breast in the little cabin at the back of the northern avenue of new york. he have be teach his right and his wrong in german and irish on the canal front of chicago. and san francisco hold men who tell him strange and awful thing of the great blind power over the sea. once when business take him across the atlantic he have serve in an english regiment and be insubordinate have suffer extremely. he draw all his idea of england that be not breed by the cheap patriotic print from one iron fisted colonel and an unbend adjutant. he would go to the mine if need be to teach his gospel. and he go a his instruction advise p. d. q. which mean with speed to introduce embarrassment into an irish regiment already half mutinous quarter among sikh peasantry all wear miniature of his highness dhulip singh maharaja of the punjab next their heart and all eagerly expect his arrival. other information equally valuable be give him by his master. he be to be cautious but never to grudge expense in win the heart of the men in the regiment. his mother in new york would supply fund and he be to write to her once a month. life be pleasant for a man who ha a mother in new york to send him two hundred pound a year over and above his regimental pay. 
in process of time thank to his intimate knowledge of drill and musketry exercise the excellent mulcahy wear the corporal s stripe go out in a troopship and join her majesty s royal loyal musketeer commonly know a the maverick because they be masterless and unbranded cattle son of small farmer in county clare shoeless vagabond of kerry herder of bally vegan much want moonlighter from the bare rainy headland of the south coast officer by o more brady hill kilreas and the like. never to outward seem be there more promise material to work on. the first three have choose their regiment well. it fear nothing that move or talk save the colonel and the regimental roman catholic chaplain the fat father dennis who hold the key of heaven and hell and blare like an angry bull when he desire to be convince. him also it love because on occasion of stress he be use to tuck up his cassock and charge with the rest into the merry of the fray where he always find good man that the saint send him a revolver when there be a fall private to be protect or but this come a an afterthought his own gray head to be guard. 
cautiously a he have be instruct tenderly and with much beer mulcahy open his project to such a he deem fit to listen. and these be one and all of that quaint crook sweet profoundly irresponsible and profoundly lovable race that fight like fiend argue like child reason like woman obey like men and jest like their own goblin of the rath through rebellion loyalty want woe or war. the underground work of a conspiracy be always dull and very much the same the world over. at the end of six month the seed always fall on good grind mulcahy speak almost explicitly hint darkly in the approve fashion at dread power behind him and advise nothing more nor le than mutiny. be they not dog evilly treat. have they not all their own and their national revenge to satisfy. who in these day would do aught to nine hundred men in rebellion. who again could stay them if they break for the sea lick up on their way other regiment only too anxious to join. and afterwards. here follow windy promise of gold and preferment office and honour ever dear to a certain type of irishman. 
a he finish his speech in the dusk of a twilight to his choose associate there be a sound of a rapidly unslung belt behind him. the arm of one dan grady fly out in the gloom and arrest something. then say dan. 
mulcahy you re a great man an you do credit to whoever send you. walk about a bite while we think of it. mulcahy depart elate. he know his word would sink deep. 
why the triple dash asterisk do ye not let me belt him. grunt a voice. 
because i m not a fat head fool. boy ti what he s be drive at these six month our superior corpril with his education and his copy of the irish paper and his everlasting beer. he s be send for the purpose and that s where the money come from. can ye not see. that man s a gold mine which horse egan here would have destroy with a belt buckle. it would be throw away the gift of providence not to fall in with his little plan. of coorse we ll mut ny till all s dry. shoot the colonel on the parade grind massacree the company officer ransack the arsenal and then boy do he tell you what next. he tell me the other night when he be begin to talk wild. then we re to join with the nigger and look for help from dhulip singh and the russian. 
and spoil the best campaign that ever be this side of hell. danny i d have lose the beer to ha give him the belt he require. 
oh let him go this awhile man. he s get no no constructiveness but that s the egg meat of his plan and you must understand that i m in with it an so be you. we ll want ocean of beer to convince u firmament full. we ll give him talk for his money and one by one all the boy ll come in and he ll have a nest of nine hundred mutineer to squat in an give drink to. 
what make me kill mad be his want u to do what the nigger do thirty year go. that an his pig s cheek in say that other regiment would come along say a kerry man. 
that s not so bad a hintin we should loose off on the colonel. 
colonel be sugar. i d a soon a not put a shoot through his helmet to see him jump and clutch his old horse s head. but mulcahy talk o shootin our comp ny orf cer accidental. 
he say that do he. say horse egan. 
somethin like that anyways. can t ye fancy ould barber brady wid a bullet in his lung coughin like a sick monkey an sayin bhoys i do not mind your gettin dhrunk but you must hould your liquor like men. the man that shoot me be dhrunk. i ll suspend investigation for six hour while i get this bullet cut out an then. 
an then continue horse egan for the peppery major s peculiarity of speech and manner be a well know a his tan face. an then ye dissolute half bake putty face scum o connemara if i find a man so much a lookin confuse begad i ll coort martial the whole company. a man that can t get over his liquor in six hour be not fit to belong to the maverick. 
a shout of laughter bore witness to the truth of the sketch. 
it s pretty to think of say the kerry man slowly. mulcahy would have u do all the devilmint and get clear himself someways. he wudn t be takin all this fool s throuble in shpoilin the reputation of the regiment. 
reputation of your grandmother s pig. say dan. 
well an he have a good reputation tu. so it s all right. mulcahy must see his way to clear out behind him or he d not ha come so far talkin power of darkness. 
do you hear anything of a regimental court martial among the black boneens these day. half a company of em take one of the new draft an hang him by his arm with a tent rope from a third story verandah. they give no reason for so doin but he be half dead. i m think that the boneens be short sight. it be a friend of mulcahy s or a man in the same trade. they d a deal good ha take his beer return dan reflectively. 
good still ha hand him up to the colonel say horse egan onless but sure the news wud be all over the counthry an give the reg ment a bad name. 
an there d be no reward for that man he but go about talkin say the kerry man artlessly. 
you speak by your breed say dan with a laugh. there be never a kerry man yet that wudn t sell his brother for a pipe o tobacco an a pat on the back from a p liceman. 
praise god i m not a bloomin orangeman be the answer. 
no nor never will be say dan. they breed men in ulster. would you like to thry the taste of one. 
the kerry man look and long but forbear. the odds of battle be too great. 
then you ll not even give mulcahy a a strike for his money say the voice of horse egan who regard what he call trouble of any kind a the pinnacle of felicity. 
dan answer not at all but creep on tip toe with large stride to the mess room the men follow. the room be empty. in a corner case like the king of dahomey s state umbrella stand the regimental colour. dan lift them tenderly and unroll in the light of the candle the record of the maverick tattered wear and hack. the white satin be darken everywhere with big brown stain the gold thread on the crown harp be fray and discolour and the red bull the totem of the maverick be coffee hue. the stiff embroider fold whose price be human life rustle down slowly. the maverick keep their colour long and guard them very sacredly. 
vittoria salamanca toulouse waterloo moodkee ferozshah an sobraon that be fight close next door here against the very beggar he want u to join. inkermann the alma sebastopol. what be those little business compare to the campaign of general mulcahy. the mut ny think o that. the mut ny an some dirty little matter in afghanistan. an for that an these an those dan point to the name of glorious battle that yankee man with the partin in his hair come an say a easy a have a drink. holy moses there s the captain. 
but it be the mess sergeant who come in just a the men clatter out and find the colour uncase. 
from that day date the mutiny of the maverick to the joy of mulcahy and the pride of his mother in new york the good lady who send the money for the beer. never so far a word go be such a mutiny. the conspirator lead by dan grady and horse egan pour in daily. they be sound men men to be trust and they all want blood. but first they must have beer. they curse the queen they mourn over ireland they suggest hideous plunder of the indian country side and then ala some of the young men would go forth and wallow on the grind in spasm of wicked laughter. 
the genius of the irish for conspiracy be remarkable. none the le they would swear no oath but those of their own make which be rare and curious and they be always at pain to impress mulcahy with the risk they run. naturally the flood of beer work demoralisation. but mulcahy confuse the cause of thing and when a very muzzy maverick smite a sergeant on the nose or call his command officer a bald head old lard bladder and even bad name he fancy that rebellion and not liquor be at the bottom of the outbreak. other gentleman who have concern themselves in large conspiracy have make the same error. 
the hot season in which they protest no man could rebel come to an end and mulcahy suggest a visible return for his teaching. a to the actual upshot of the mutiny he care nothing. it would be enough if the english infatuatedly trust to the integrity of their army should be startle with news of an irish regiment revolt from political consideration. his persistent demand would have end at dan s instigation in a regimental belt which in all probability would have kill him and cut off the supply of beer have not he be send on special duty some fifty mile away from the cantonment to cool his heel in a mud fort and dismount obsolete artillery. then the colonel of the maverick read his newspaper diligently and scent frontier trouble from afar post to the army headquarter and plead with the commander in chief for certain privilege to be grant under certain contingency. which contingency come about only a week late when the annual little war on the border develop itself and the colonel return to carry the good news to the maverick. he hold the promise of the chief for active service and the men must get ready. 
on the even of the same day mulcahy an unconsidered corporal yet great in conspiracy return to cantonment and hear sound of strife and howling from afar off. the mutiny have break out and the barrack of the maverick be one white wash pandemonium. a private tear through the barrack square gasp in his ear service. active service. it s a burnin shame. oh joy the maverick have rise on the eve of battle. they would not noble and loyal son of ireland serve the queen long. the news would flash through the country side and over to england and he mulcahy the trust of the third three have bring about the crash. the private stand in the middle of the square and curse colonel regiment officer and doctor particularly the doctor by his god. an orderly of the native cavalry regiment clatter through the mob of soldier. he be half lift half drag from his horse beat on the back with mighty hand clap till his eye water and call all manner of endear name. yes the maverick have fraternise with the native troop. who then be the agent among the latter that have blindly work with mulcahy so well. 
an officer slink almost run from the mess to a barrack. he be mob by the infuriate soldiery who close round but do not kill him for he fight his way to shelter fly for the life. mulcahy could have weep with pure joy and thankfulness. the very prisoner in the guard room be shake the bar of their cell and howl like wild beast and from every barrack pour the boom a of a big war drum. 
mulcahy hasten to his own barrack. he could hardly hear himself speak. eighty men be pound with fist and heel the table and trestle eighty men flush with mutiny strip to their shirt sleeve their knapsack half pack for the march to the sea make the two inch board thunder again a they chant to a tune that mulcahy know well the sacred war song of the maverick. 
listen in the north my boy there s trouble on the wind. tramp o cossack hoof in front gray great coat behind trouble on the frontier of a most amazin kind trouble on the water o the oxus. 
then a a table break under the furious accompaniment. 
hurrah. hurrah. it s north by west we go. hurrah. hurrah. the chance we want so. let em hear the chorus from umballa to moscow a we go marchin to the kremling. 
mother of all the saint in bliss and all the devil in cinder where s my fine new sock widout the heel. howl horse egan ransack everybody s valise but his own. he be engage in make up deficiency of kit preparatory to a campaign and in that work he steal best who steal last. ah mulcahy you re in good time he shout. we ve get the route and we re off on thursday for a pic nic wid the lancer next door. 
an ambulance orderly appear with a huge basket full of lint roll provide by the forethought of the queen for such a might need them late on. horse egan unroll his bandage and flick it under mulcahy s nose chant. 
sheepskin an bee wax thunder pitch and plaster the more you try to pull it off the more it stick the fast. a i be goin to new orleans. 
you know the rest of it my irish american jew boy. by gad ye have to fight for the queen in the inside av a fortnight my darlin. 
a roar of laughter interrupt. mulcahy look vacantly down the room. bid a boy defy his father when the pantomime cab be at the door. or a girl develop a will of her own when her mother be put the last touch to the first ball dress. but do not ask an irish regiment to embark upon mutiny on the eve of a campaign. when it ha fraternise with the native regiment that accompany it and drive it officer into retirement with ten thousand clamorous question and the prisoner dance for joy and the sick men stand in the open call down all know disease on the head of the doctor who ha certify that they be medically unfit for active service. at even the maverick might have be mistake for mutineer by one so unversed in their nature a mulcahy. at dawn a girl school might have learn deportment from them. they know that their colonel s hand have close and that he who break that iron discipline would not go to the front. nothing in the world will persuade one of our soldier when he be order to the north on the small of affair that he be not immediately go gloriously to slay cossack and cook his kettle in the palace of the czar. a few of the young men mourn for mulcahy s beer because the campaign be to be conduct on strict temperance principle but a dan and horse egan say sternly we ve get the beer man with u. he shall drink now on his own hook. 
mulcahy have not take into account the possibility of be send on active service. he have make up his mind that he would not go under any circumstance but fortune be against him. 
sick you. say the doctor who have serve an unholy apprenticeship to his trade in tralee poorhouse. you re only home sick and what you call varicose vein come from over eat. a little gentle exercise will cure that. and late mulcahy my man everybody be allow to apply for a sick certificate once. if he try it twice we call him by an ugly name. go back to your duty and let s hear no more of your disease. 
i be ashamed to say that horse egan enjoy the study of mulcahy s soul in those day and dan take an equal interest. together they would communicate to their corporal all the dark lore of death which be the portion of those who have see men die. egan have the large experience but dan the fine imagination. mulcahy shiver when the former speak of the knife a an intimate acquaintance or the latter dwell with love particularity on the fate of those who wound and helpless have be overlook by the ambulance and have fall into the hand of the afghan woman folk. 
mulcahy know that the mutiny for the present at least be dead. know too that a change have come over dan s usually respectful attitude towards him and horse egan s laughter and frequent allusion to abortive conspiracy emphasise all that the conspirator have guess. the horrible fascination of the death story however make him seek the men s society. he learn much more than he have bargain for. and in this manner. it be on the last night before the regiment entrain to the front. the barrack be strip of everything movable and the men be too excite to sleep. the bare wall give out a heavy hospital smell of chloride of lime. 
and what say mulcahy in an awe stricken whisper after some conversation on the eternal subject be you go to do to me dan. this might have be the language of an able conspirator conciliate a weak spirit. 
you ll see say dan grimly turn over in his cot or i rather shud say you ll not see. 
this be hardly the language of a weak spirit. mulcahy shake under the bed clothe. 
be easy with him put in egan from the next cot. he ha get his chanst o goin clean. listen mulcahy. all we want be for the good sake of the regiment that you take your death stand up a a man shud. there be heap an heap of enemy plenshus heap. go there an do all you can and die decent. you ll die with a good name there. ti not a hard thing considerin. 
again mulcahy shiver. 
an how could a man wish to die good than fightin. add dan consolingly. 
and if i win t. say the corporal in a dry whisper. 
there ll be a dale of smoke return dan sit up and tick off the situation on his finger sure to be an the noise of the firin ll be tremenjus an we ll be run about up and down the regiment will. but we horse and i we ll stay by you mulcahy and never let you go. maybe there ll be an accident. 
it s play it low on me. let me go. for pity s sake let me go. i never do you harm and and i stand you a much beer a i could. oh don t be hard on me dan. you be you be in it too. you win t kill me up there will you. 
i m not thinkin of the treason. though you shud be glad any honest boy drink with you. it s for the regiment. we can t have the shame o you bringin shame on u. you go to the doctor quiet a a sick cat to get and stay behind an live with the woman at the depot you that want u to run to the sea in wolf pack like the rebel none of your black blood dare to be. but we know about your goin to the doctor for he tell in mess and it s all over the regiment. bein a we be your best friend we didn t allow any one to molest you yet. we will see to you ourselves. fight which you will u or the enemy you ll never lie in that cot again and there s more glory and maybe le kick from fightin the enemy. that s fair speakin. 
and he tell u by word of mouth to go and join with the nigger you ve forget that dan say horse egan to justify sentence. 
what s the use of plaguin the man. one shoot pay for all. sleep ye sound mulcahy. but you onderstand do ye not. 
mulcahy for some week understand very little of anything at all save that ever at his elbow in camp or at parade stand two big men with soft voice adjure him to commit hari kari l a bad thing should happen to die for the honour of the regiment in decency among the near knife. but mulcahy dread death. he remember certain thing that priest have say in his infancy and his mother not the one at new york start from her sleep with shriek to pray for a husband s soul in torment. it be well to be of a culture intelligence but in time of trouble the weak human mind return to the creed it suck in at the breast and if that creed be not a pretty one trouble follow. also the death he would have to face would be physically painful. most conspirator have large imagination. mulcahy could see himself a he lay on the earth in the night die by various cause. they be all horrible. the mother in new york be very far away and the regiment the engine that once you fall in it grip move you forward whether you will or win t be daily come close to the enemy. 
they be bring to the field of marzun katai and with the black boneens to aid they fight a fight that ha never be set down in the newspaper. in response many believe to the fervent prayer of father dennis the enemy not only elect to fight in the open but make a beautiful fight a many weep irish mother know late. they gather behind wall or flicker across the open in shout mass and be pot valiant in artillery. it be expedient to hold a large reserve and wait for the psychological moment that be be prepare by the shriek shrapnel. therefore the maverick lay down in open order on the brow of a hill to watch the play till their call should come. father dennis whose duty be in the rear to smooth the trouble of the wound have naturally manage to make his way to the foremost of his boy and lay like a black porpoise at length on the grass. to him crawl mulcahy ashen gray demand absolution. 
wait till you re shoot say father dennis sweetly. there s a time for everything. 
dan grady chuckle a he blow for the fiftieth time into the breech of his speckle rifle. mulcahy groan and bury his head in his arm till a stray shoot speak like a snipe immediately above his head and a general heave and tremour ripple the line. other shot follow and a few take effect a a shriek or a grunt attest. the officer who have be lie down with the men rise and begin to walk steadily up and down the front of their company. 
this manoeuvre execute not for publication but a a guarantee of good faith to soothe men demand nerve. you must not hurry you must not look nervous though you know that you be a mark for every rifle within extreme range and above all if you be smite you must make a little noise a possible and roll inwards through the file. it be at this hour when the breeze bring the first salt whiff of the powder to nose rather cold at the tip and the eye can quietly take in the appearance of each red casualty that the strain on the nerve be strong. scotch regiment can endure for half a day and abate no whit of their zeal at the end. english regiment sometimes sulk under punishment while the irish like the french be apt to run forward by one and two which be just a bad a run back. the truly wise commandant of highly string troop allow them in season of wait to hear the sound of their own voice uplift in song. there be a legend of an english regiment that lay by it arm under fire chaunting sam hall to the horror of it newly appoint and pious colonel. the black boneens who be suffer more than the maverick on a hill half a mile away begin presently to explain to all who care to listen. 
we ll sound the jubilee from the centre to the sea and ireland shall be free say the shan van vogh. 
sing boy say father dennis softly. it look a if we care for their afghan pea. 
dan grady raise himself to his knee and open his mouth in a song impart to him a to most of his comrade in the strict confidence by mulcahy the mulcahy then lie limp and faint on the grass the chill fear of death upon him. 
company after company catch up the word which the i. a. a. say be to herald the general rise of erin and to breathe which except to those duly appoint to hear be death. wherefore they be print in this place. 
the saxon in heaven s just balance be weigh his doom like belshazzar s in death ha be cast and the hand of the venger shall never be stay till his race faith and speech be a dream of the past. 
they be heart fill line and they run with a swirl. the i. a. a. be good serve by their pen than their petard. dan clap mulcahy merrily on the back ask him to sing up. the officer lay down again. there be no need to walk any more. their men be soothe themselves thunderously thus. 
st. mary in heaven ha write the vow that the land shall not rest till the heretic blood from the babe at the breast to the hand at the plough ha roll to the ocean like shannon in flood. 
i ll speak to you after all s over say father dennis authoritatively in dan s ear. what s the use of confess to me when you do this foolishness. dan you ve be play with fire. i ll lay you more penance in a week than. 
come along to purgatory with u father dear. the boneens be on the move. they ll let u go now. 
the regiment rise to the blast of the bugle a one man. but one man there be who rise more swiftly than all the others for half an inch of bayonet be in the fleshy part of his leg. 
you ve get to do it say dan grimly. do it decent anyhow. and the roar of the rush drown his word for the rear company thrust forward the first still sing a they swing down the slope. 
from the child at the breast to the hand at the plough shall roll to the ocean like shannon in flood. 
they should have sing it in the face of england not of the afghan whom it impress a much a do the wild irish yell. 
they come down sing say the unofficial report of the enemy bear from village to village the next day. they continue to sing and it be write that our men could not abide when they come. it be believe that there be magic in the aforesaid song. 
dan and horse egan keep themselves in the neighbourhood of mulcahy. twice the man would have bolt back in the confusion. twice he be heave kick and shoulder back again into the unpaintable inferno of a hotly contest charge. 
at the end the panic excess of his fear drive him into madness beyond all human courage. his eye star at nothing his mouth open and froth and breathe a one in a cold bath he go forward demented while dan toil after him. the charge check at a high mud wall. it be mulcahy who scramble up tooth and nail and hurl down among the bayonet the amaze afghan who bar his way. it be mulcahy keep to the straight line of the rabid dog who lead a collection of ardent soul at a newly unmask battery and fling himself on the muzzle of a gun a his companion dance among the gunner. it be mulcahy who run wildly on from that battery into the open plain where the enemy be retire in sullen group. his hand be empty he have lose helmet and belt and he be bleed from a wind in the neck. dan and horse egan pant and distress have throw themselves down on the grind by the capture gun when they notice mulcahy s charge. 
mad say horse egan critically. mad with fear. he s go straight to his death an shout s no use. 
let him go. watch now. if we fire we ll hit him maybe. 
the last of a hurry crowd of afghan turn at the noise of shoe foot behind him and shift his knife ready to hand. this he saw be no time to take prisoner. mulcahy tear on sob. the straight hold blade go home through the defenceless breast and the body pitch forward almost before a shoot from dan s rifle bring down the slayer and still further hurry the afghan retreat. the two irishman go out to bring in their dead. 
he be give the point and that be an easy death say horse egan view the corpse. but would you ha shoot him danny if he have live. 
he didn t live so there s no sayin. but i doubt i wud have bekase of the fun he give u let alone the beer. hike up his leg horse and we ll bring him in. perhaps ti good this way. 
they bore the poor limp body to the mass of the regiment loll open mouth on their rifle. and there be a general snigger when one of the young subaltern say that be a good man. 
phew say horse egan when a burial party have take over the burden. i m powerful dhry and this remind me there ll be no more beer at all. 
fwhy not. say dan with a twinkle in his eye a he stretch himself for rest. be we not conspirin all we can an while we conspire be we not entitle to free dhrinks. sure his ould mother in new york would not let her son s comrade perish of drouth if she can be reach at the end of a letter. 
you re a janius say horse egan. o coorse she will not. i wish this crool war be over an we d get back to canteen. faith the commander in chief ought to be hang in his own little sword belt for makin u work on wather. 
the maverick be generally of horse egan s opinion. so they make haste to get their work do a soon a possible and their industry be reward by unexpected peace. we can fight the son of adam say the tribesman but we cannot fight the son of eblis and this regiment never stay still in one place. let u therefore come in. they come in and this regiment withdraw to conspire under the leadership of dan grady. 
excellent a a subordinate dan fail altogether a a chief in command possibly because he be too much sway by the advice of the only man in the regiment who could manufacture more than one kind of handwrite. the same mail that bore to mulcahy s mother in new york a letter from the colonel tell her how valiantly her son have fight for the queen and how assuredly he would have be recommend for the victoria cross have he survive carry a communication sign i grieve to say by that same colonel and all the officer of the regiment explain their willingness to do anything which be contrary to the regulation and all kind of revolution if only a little money could be forward to cover incidental expense. daniel grady esquire would receive fund vice mulcahy who be unwell at this present time of write. 
both letter be forward from new york to tehama street san francisco with marginal comment a brief a they be bitter. the third three read and look at each other. then the second conspirator he who believe in join hand with the practical branch begin to laugh and on recover his gravity say gentleman i consider this will be a lesson to u. we re leave again. those curse irish have let u down. i know they would but here he laugh afresh i d give considerable to know what be at the back of it all. 
his curiosity would have be satisfy have he see dan grady discredit regimental conspirator try to explain to his thirsty comrade in india the non arrival of fund from new york. 
the mark of the beast. 
your god and my god do you or i know which be the strong. native proverb. 
east of suez some hold the direct control of providence cease. man be there hand over to the power of the god and devil of asia and the church of england providence only exercise an occasional and modify supervision in the case of englishman. 
this theory account for some of the more unnecessary horror of life in india. it may be stretch to explain my story. 
my friend strickland of the police who know a much of native of india a be good for any man can bear witness to the fact of the case. dumoise our doctor also saw what strickland and i saw. the inference which he draw from the evidence be entirely incorrect. he be dead now. he die in a rather curious manner which ha be elsewhere describe. 
when fleete come to india he own a little money and some land in the himalaya near a place call dharmsala. both property have be leave him by an uncle and he come out to finance them. he be a big heavy genial and inoffensive man. his knowledge of native be of course limit and he complain of the difficulty of the language. 
he ride in from his place in the hill to spend new year in the station and he stay with strickland. on new year s eve there be a big dinner at the club and the night be excusably wet. when men foregather from the uttermost end of the empire they have a right to be riotous. the frontier have send down a contingent o catch em alive o s who have not see twenty white face for a year and be use to ride fifteen mile to dinner at the next fort at the risk of a khyberee bullet where their drink should lie. they profit by their new security for they try to play pool with a curl up hedgehog find in the garden and one of them carry the marker round the room in his teeth. half a dozen planter have come in from the south and be talk horse to the big liar in asia who be try to cap all their story at once. everybody be there and there be a general close up of rank and take stock of our loss in dead or disable that have fall during the past year. it be a very wet night and i remember that we sing auld lang syne with our foot in the polo championship cup and our head among the star and swear that we be all dear friend. then some of u go away and annex burma and some try to open up the soudan and be open up by fuzzies in that cruel scrub outside suakim and some find star and medal and some be marry which be bad and some do other thing which be bad and the others of u stay in our chain and strive to make money on insufficient experience. 
fleete begin the night with sherry and bitter drink champagne steadily up to dessert then raw rasp capri with all the strength of whisky take benedictine with his coffee four or five whisky and soda to improve his pool stroke beer and bone at half past two wind up with old brandy. consequently when he come out at half past three in the morning into fourteen degree of frost he be very angry with his horse for cough and try to leapfrog into the saddle. the horse break away and go to his stable. so strickland and i form a guard of dishonour to take fleete home. 
our road lay through the bazaar close to a little temple of hanuman the monkey god who be a lead divinity worthy of respect. all god have good point just a have all priest. personally i attach much importance to hanuman and be kind to his people the great gray ape of the hill. one never know when one may want a friend. 
there be a light in the temple and a we pass we could hear voice of men chant hymn. in a native temple the priest rise at all hour of the night to do honour to their god. before we could stop him fleete dash up the step pat two priest on the back and be gravely grind the ash of his cigar butt into the forehead of the red stone image of hanuman. strickland try to drag him out but he sit down and say solemnly. 
shee that. mark of the b beasht. i make it. ishn t it fine. 
in half a minute the temple be alive and noisy and strickland who know what come of pollute god say that thing might occur. he by virtue of his official position long residence in the country and weakness for go among the native be know to the priest and he felt unhappy. fleete sit on the grind and refuse to move. he say that good old hanuman make a very soft pillow. 
then without any warn a silver man come out of a recess behind the image of the god. he be perfectly naked in that bitter bitter cold and his body shine like frost silver for he be what the bible call a leper a white a snow. also he have no face because he be a leper of some year stand and his disease be heavy upon him. we two stoop to haul fleete up and the temple be fill and fill with folk who seem to spring from the earth when the silver man run in under our arm make a noise exactly like the mew of an otter catch fleete round the body and drop his head on fleete s breast before we could wrench him away. then he retire to a corner and sit mew while the crowd block all the door. 
the priest be very angry until the silver man touch fleete. that nuzzle seem to sober them. 
at the end of a few minute silence one of the priest come to strickland and say in perfect english take your friend away. he ha do with hanuman but hanurnan ha not do with him. the crowd give room and we carry fleete into the road. 
strickland be very angry. he say that we might all three have be knife and that fleete should thank his star that he have escape without injury. 
fleete thank no one. he say that he want to go to bed. he be gorgeously drink. 
we move on strickland silent and wrathful until fleete be take with violent shiver fit and sweat. he say that the smell of the bazaar be overpower and he wonder why slaughter house be permit so near english residence. can t you smell the blood. say fleete. 
we put him to bed at last just a the dawn be break and strickland invite me to have another whisky and soda. while we be drink he talk of the trouble in the temple and admit that it baffle him completely. strickland hate be mystify by native because his business in life be to overmatch them with their own weapon. he ha not yet succeed in do this but in fifteen or twenty year he will have make some small progress. 
they should have maul u he say instead of mew at u. i wonder what they mean. i don t like it one little bite. 
i say that the manage committee of the temple would in all probability bring a criminal action against u for insult their religion. there be a section of the indian penal code which exactly meet fleete s offence. strickland say he only hop and pray that they would do this. before i leave i look into fleete s room and saw him lie on his right side scratch his leave breast. then. i go to bed cold depress and unhappy at seven o clock in the morning. 
at one o clock i ride over to strickland s house to inquire after fleete s head. i imagine that it would be a sore one. fleete be breakfast and seem unwell. his temper be go for he be abuse the cook for not supply him with an underdone chop. a man who can eat raw meat after a wet night be a curiosity. i tell fleete this and he laugh. 
you breed queer mosquito in these part he say. i ve be bite to piece but only in one place. 
let s have a look at the bite say strickland. it may have go down since this morning. 
while the chop be be cook fleete open his shirt and show u just over his leave breast a mark the perfect double of the black rosette the five or six irregular blotch arrange in a circle on a leopard s hide. strickland look and say it be only pink this morning. it s grow black now. 
fleete run to a glass. 
by jove. he say this be nasty. what be it. 
we could not answer. here the chop come in all red and juicy and fleete bolt three in a most offensive manner. he eat on his right grinder only and throw his head over his right shoulder a he snap the meat. when he have finish it strike him that he have be behave strangely for he say apologetically i don t think i ever felt so hungry in my life. i ve bolt like an ostrich. 
after breakfast strickland say to me don t go. stay here and stay for the night. 
see that my house be not three mile from strickland s this request be absurd. but strickland insist and be go to say something when fleete interrupt by declare in a shamefaced way that he felt hungry again. strickland send a man to my house to fetch over my bed and a horse and we three go down to strickland s stable to pas the hour until it be time to go out for a ride. the man who ha a weakness for horse never weary of inspect them. and when two men be kill time in this way they gather knowledge and lie the one from the other. 
there be five horse in the stable and i shall never forget the scene a we try to look them over. they seem to have go mad. they rear and scream and nearly tear up their picket. they sweat and shiver and lather and be distraught with fear. strickland s horse use to know him a well a his dog. which make the matter more curious. we leave the stable for fear of the brute throw themselves in their panic. then strickland turn back and call me. the horse be still frighten but they let u gentle and make much of them and put their head in our bosom. 
they aren t afraid of u say strickland. d you know i d give three month pay if outrage here could talk. 
but outrage be dumb and could only cuddle up to his master and blow out his nostril a be the custom of horse when they wish to explain thing but can t. fleete come up when we be in the stall and a soon a the horse saw him their fright break out afresh. it be all that we could do to escape from the place unkicked. strickland say they don t seem to love you fleete. 
nonsense say fleete. my mare will follow me like a dog. he go to her. she be in a loose box. but a he slip the bar she plunge knock him down and break away into the garden. i laugh but strickland be not amuse. he take his moustache in both fist and pull at it till it nearly come out. fleete instead of go off to chase his property yawn say that he felt sleepy. he go to the house to lie down which be a foolish way of spend new year s day. 
strickland sit with me in the stable and ask if i have notice anything peculiar in fleete s manner. i say that he eat his food like a beast. but that this might have be the result of live alone in the hill out of the reach of society a refine and elevate a ours for instance. strickland be not amuse. i do not think that he listen to me for his next sentence refer to the mark on fleete s breast and i say that it might have be cause by blister fly or that it be possibly a birth mark newly bear and now visible for the first time. we both agree that it be unpleasant to look at and strickland find occasion to say that i be a fool. 
i can t tell you what i think now say he because you would call me a madman. but you must stay with me for the next few day if you can. i want you to watch fleete but don t tell me what you think till i have make up my mind. 
but i be din out to night i say. so be i say strickland and so be fleete. at least if he doesn t change his mind. 
we walk about the garden smoke but say nothing because we be friend and talk spoil good tobacco till our pipe be out. then we go to wake up fleete. he be wide awake and fidget about his room. 
i say i want some more chop he say. can i get them. 
we laugh and say go and change. the pony will be round in a minute. 
all right say fleete. i ll go when i get the chop underdone one mind. 
he seem to be quite in earnest. it be four o clock and we have have breakfast at one. still for a long time he demand those underdone chop. then he change into rid clothe and go out into the verandah. his pony the mare have not be catch would not let him come near. all three horse be unmanageable mad with fear and finally fleete say that he would stay at home and get something to eat. strickland and i ride out wonder. a we pass the temple of hanuman the silver man come out and mew at u. 
he be not one of the regular priest of the temple say strickland. i think i should peculiarly like to lay my hand on him. 
there be no spring in our gallop on the racecourse that even. the horse be stale and move a though they have be ride out. 
the fright after breakfast ha be too much for them say strickland. 
that be the only remark he make through the remainder of the ride. once or twice i think he swear to himself. but that do not count. 
we come back in the dark at seven o clock and saw that there be no light in the bungalow. careless ruffian my servant be. say strickland. 
my horse rear at something on the carriage drive and fleete stand up under it nose. 
what be you do grovel about the garden. say strickland. 
but both horse bolt and nearly throw u. we dismount by the stable and return to fleete who be on his hand and knee under the orange bush. 
what the devil s wrong with you. say strickland. 
nothing nothing in the world say fleete speak very quickly and thickly. i ve be garden botanise you know. the smell of the earth be delightful. i think i m go for a walk a long walk all night. 
then i saw that there be something excessively out of order somewhere and i say to strickland i be not din out. 
bless you. say strickland. here fleete get up. you ll catch fever there. come in to dinner and let s have the lamp light. we ll all dine at home. 
fleete stand up unwillingly and say no lamp no lamp. it s much nice here. let s dine outside and have some more chop lot of em and underdone bloody one with gristle. 
now a december even in northern india be bitterly cold and fleete s suggestion be that of a maniac. 
come in say strickland sternly. come in at once. 
fleete come and when the lamp be bring we saw that he be literally plaster with dirt from head to foot. he must have be roll in the garden. he shrink from the light and go to his room. his eye be horrible to look at. there be a green light behind them not in them if you understand and the man s low lip hang down. 
strickland say there be go to be trouble big trouble to night. don t you change your rid thing. 
we wait and wait for fleete s reappearance and order dinner in the meantime. we could hear him move about his own room but there be no light there. presently from the room come the long draw howl of a wolf. 
people write and talk lightly of blood run cold and hair stand up and thing of that kind. both sensation be too horrible to be trifle with. my heart stop a though a knife have be drive through it and strickland turn a white a the tablecloth. 
the howl be repeat and be answer by another howl far across the field. 
that set the gild roof on the horror. strickland dash into fleete s room. i follow and we saw fleete get out of the window. he make beast noise in the back of his throat. he could not answer u when we shout at him. he spat. 
i don t quite remember what follow but i think that strickland must have stun him with the long boot jack or else i should never have be able to sit on his chest. fleete could not speak he could only snarl and his snarl be those of a wolf not of a man. the human spirit must have be give way all day and have die out with the twilight. we be deal with a beast that have once be fleete. 
the affair be beyond any human and rational experience. i try to say hydrophobia but the word wouldn t come because i know that i be lie. 
we bind this beast with leather thong of the punkah rope and tie it thumb and big toe together and gag it with a shoe horn which make a very efficient gag if you know how to arrange it. then we carry it into the din room and send a man to dumoise the doctor tell him to come over at once. after we have despatch the messenger and be draw breath strickland say it s no good. this isn t any doctor s work. i also know that he speak the truth. 
the beast s head be free and it throw it about from side to side. any one enter the room would have believe that we be cure a wolf s pelt. that be the most loathsome accessory of all. 
strickland sit with his chin in the heel of his fist watch the beast a it wriggle on the grind but say nothing. the shirt have be tear open in the scuffle and show the black rosette mark on the leave breast. it stand out like a blister. 
in the silence of the watch we hear something without mew like a she otter. we both rise to our foot and i answer for myself not strickland felt sick actually and physically sick. we tell each other a do the men in pinafore that it be the cat. 
dumoise arrive and i never saw a little man so unprofessionally shock. he say that it be a heart rend case of hydrophobia and that nothing could be do. at least any palliative measure would only prolong the agony. the beast be foam at the mouth. fleete a we tell dumoise have be bite by dog once or twice. any man who keep half a dozen terrier must expect a nip now and again. dumoise could offer no help. he could only certify that fleete be die of hydrophobia. the beast be then howl for it have manage to spit out the shoe horn. dumoise say that he would be ready to certify to the cause of death and that the end be certain. he be a good little man and he offer to remain with u. but strickland refuse the kindness. he do not wish to poison dumoise s new year. he would only ask him not to give the real cause of fleete s death to the public. 
so dumoise leave deeply agitate. and a soon a the noise of the cart wheel have die away strickland tell me in a whisper his suspicion. they be so wildly improbable that he dare not say them out aloud. and i who entertain all strickland s belief be so ashamed of own to them that i pretend to disbelieve. 
even if the silver man have bewtiched fleete for pollute the image of hanuman the punishment could not have fall so quickly. 
a i be whisper this the cry outside the house rise again and the beast fell into a fresh paroxysm of struggle till we be afraid that the thong that hold it would give way. 
watch. say strickland. if this happen six time i shall take the law into my own hand. i order you to help me. 
he go into his room and come out in a few minute with the barrel of an old shoot gun a piece of fish line some thick cord and his heavy wooden bedstead. i report that the convulsion have follow the cry by two second in each case and the beast seem perceptibly weak. 
strickland mutter but he can t take away the life. he can t take away the life. 
i say though i know that i be argue against myself it may be a cat. it must be a cat. if the silver man be responsible why doe he dare to come here. 
strickland arrange the wood on the hearth put the gun barrel into the glow of the fire spread the twine on the table and break a walk stick in two. there be one yard of fish line gut lap with wire such a be use for mahseer fish and he tie the two end together in a loop. 
then he say how can we catch him. he must be take alive and unhurt. 
i say that we must trust in providence and go out softly with polo stick into the shrubbery at the front of the house. the man or animal that make the cry be evidently move round the house a regularly a a night watchman. we could wait in the bush till he come by and knock him over. 
strickland accept this suggestion and we slip out from a bath room window into the front verandah and then across the carriage drive into the bush. 
in the moonlight we could see the leper come round the corner of the house. he be perfectly naked and from time to time he mew and stop to dance with his shadow. it be an unattractive sight and think of poor fleete bring to such degradation by so foul a creature i put away all my doubt and resolve to help strickland from the heat gun barrel to the loop of twine from the loin to the head and back again with all torture that might be needful. 
the leper halt in the front porch for a moment and we jump out on him with the stick. he be wonderfully strong and we be afraid that he might escape or be fatally injure before we catch him. we have an idea that leper be frail creature but this prove to be incorrect. strickland knock his leg from under him and i put my foot on his neck. he mew hideously and even through my rid boot i could feel that his flesh be not the flesh of a clean man. 
he strike at u with his hand and foot stump. we loop the lash of a dog whip round him under the armpit and drag him backwards into the hall and so into the din room where the beast lay. there we tie him with trunk strap. he make no attempt to escape but mew. 
when we confront him with the beast the scene be beyond description. the beast double backwards into a bow a though he have be poison with strychnine and moan in the most pitiable fashion. several other thing happen also but they cannot be put down here. 
i think i be right say strickland. now we will ask him to cure this case. 
but the leper only mew. strickland wrap a towel round his hand and take the gun barrel out of the fire. i put the half of the break walk stick through the loop of fish line and buckle the leper comfortably to strickland s bedstead. i understand then how men and woman and little child can endure to see a witch burn alive. for the beast be moan on the floor and though the silver man have no face you could see horrible feeling pass through the slab that take it place exactly a wave of heat play across red hot iron gun barrel for instance. 
strickland shade his eye with his hand for a moment and we get to work. this part be not to be print. 
the dawn be begin to break when the leper speak. his mew have not be satisfactory up to that point. the beast have faint from exhaustion and the house be very still. we unstrapped the leper and tell him to take away the evil spirit. he crawl to the beast and lay his hand upon the leave breast. that be all. then he fell face down and whine draw in his breath a he do so. 
we watch the face of the beast and saw the soul of fleete come back into the eye. then a sweat break out on the forehead and the eye they be human eye close. we wait for an hour but fleete still sleep. we carry him to his room and bid the leper go give him the bedstead and the sheet on the bedstead to cover his nakedness the glove and the towel with which we have touch him and the whip that have be hook round his body. he put the sheet about him and go out into the early morning without speak or mew. 
strickland wipe his face and sit down. a night gong far away in the city make seven o clock. 
exactly four and twenty hour. say strickland. and i ve do enough to ensure my dismissal from the service besides permanent quarter in a lunatic asylum. do you believe that we be awake. 
the red hot gun barrel have fall on the floor and be singe the carpet. the smell be entirely real. 
that morning at eleven we two together go to wake up fleete. we look and saw that the black leopard rosette on his chest have disappear. he be very drowsy and tire but a soon a he saw u he say oh. confound you fellow. happy new year to you. never mix your liquor. i m nearly dead. 
thank for your kindness but you re over time say strickland. to day be the morning of the second. you ve sleep the clock round with a vengeance. 
the door open and little dumoise put his head in. he have come on foot and fancy that we be lave out fleete. 
i ve bring a nurse say dumoise. i suppose that she can come in for. what be necessary. 
by all mean say fleete cheerily sit up in bed. bring on your nurse. 
dumoise be dumb. strickland lead him out and explain that there must have be a mistake in the diagnosis. dumoise remain dumb and leave the house hastily. he consider that his professional reputation have be injure and be incline to make a personal matter of the recovery. strickland go out too. when he come back he say that he have be to call on the temple of hanuman to offer redress for the pollution of the god and have be solemnly assure that no white man have ever touch the idol and that he be an incarnation of all the virtue labour under a delusion. 
what do you think. say strickland. 
i say there be more thing. 
but strickland hate that quotation. he say that i have wear it threadbare. 
one other curious thing happen which frighten me a much a anything in all the night s work. when fleete be dress he come into the din room and sniff. he have a quaint trick of move his nose when he sniff. horrid doggy smell here say he. you should really keep those terrier of yours in good order. try sulphur strick. 
but strickland do not answer. he catch hold of the back of a chair and without warn go into an amaze fit of hysteric. it be terrible to see a strong man overtake with hysteria. then it strike me that we have fight for fleete s soul with the silver man in that room and have disgrace ourselves a englishman for ever and i laugh and gasp and gurgle just a shamefully a strickland while fleete think that we have both go mad. we never tell him what we have do. 
some year late when strickland have marry and be a church go member of society for his wife s sake we review the incident dispassionately and strickland suggest that i should put it before the public. 
i cannot myself see that this step be likely to clear up the mystery. because in the first place no one will believe a rather unpleasant story and in the second it be well know to every right mind man that the god of the heathen be stone and brass and any attempt to deal with them otherwise be justly condemn. 
the return of imray. 
the door be wide the story saith out of the night come the patient wraith he might not speak and he could not stir a hair of the baron s minniver speechless and strengthless a shadow thin he rove the castle to seek his kin. and oh twas a piteous thing to see the dumb ghost follow his enemy. the baron. 
imray achieve the impossible. without warn for no conceivable motive in his youth at the threshold of his career he choose to disappear from the world which be to say the little indian station where he live. 
upon a day he be alive well happy and in great evidence among the billiard table at his club. upon a morning he be not and no manner of search could make sure where he might be. he have step out of his place. he have not appear at his office at the proper time and his dogcart be not upon the public road. for these reason and because he be hamper in a microscopical degree the administration of the indian empire that empire pause for one microscopical moment to make inquiry into the fate of imray. pond be drag well be plumb telegram be despatch down the line of railway and to the near seaport town twelve hundred mile away. but imray be not at the end of the drag rope nor the telegraph wire. he be go and his place know him no more. 
then the work of the great indian empire sweep forward because it could not be delay and imray from be a man become a mystery such a thing a men talk over at their table in the club for a month and then forget utterly. his gun horse and cart be sell to the high bidder. his superior officer write an altogether absurd letter to his mother say that imray have unaccountably disappear and his bungalow stand empty. 
after three or four month of the scorch hot weather have go by my friend strickland of the police saw fit to rent the bungalow from the native landlord. this be before he be engage to miss youghal an affair which ha be describe in another place and while he be pursue his investigation into native life. his own life be sufficiently peculiar and men complain of his manner and custom. there be always food in his house but there be no regular time for meal. he eat stand up and walk about whatever he might find at the sideboard and this be not good for human being. his domestic equipment be limit to six rifle three shoot gun five saddle and a collection of stiff joint mahseer rod big and strong than the large salmon rod. these occupy one half of his bungalow and the other half be give up to strickland and his dog tietjens an enormous rampur slut who devour daily the ration of two men. she speak to strickland in a language of her own. and whenever walk abroad she saw thing calculate to destroy the peace of her majesty the queen empress she return to her master and lay information. strickland would take step at once and the end of his labour be trouble and fine and imprisonment for other people. the native believe that tietjens be a familiar spirit and treat her with the great reverence that be bear of hate and fear. one room in the bungalow be set apart for her special use. she own a bedstead a blanket and a drink trough and if any one come into strickland s room at night her custom be to knock down the invader and give tongue till some one come with a light. strickland owe his life to her when he be on the frontier in search of a local murderer who come in the gray dawn to send strickland much farther than the andaman island. tietjens catch the man a he be crawl into strickland s tent with a dagger between his teeth. and after his record of iniquity be establish in the eye of the law he be hang. from that date tietjens wear a collar of rough silver and employ a monogram on her night blanket. and the blanket be of double weave kashmir cloth for she be a delicate dog. 
under no circumstance would she be separate from strickland. and once when he be ill with fever make great trouble for the doctor because she do not know how to help her master and would not allow another creature to attempt aid. macarnaght of the indian medical service beat her over her head with a gun butt before she could understand that she must give room for those who could give quinine. 
a short time after strickland have take imray s bungalow my business take me through that station and naturally the club quarter be full i quarter myself upon strickland. it be a desirable bungalow eight room and heavily thatch against any chance of leakage from rain. under the pitch of the roof run a ceiling cloth which look just a neat a a white wash ceiling. the landlord have repaint it when strickland take the bungalow. unless you know how indian bungalow be build you would never have suspect that above the cloth lay the dark three corner cavern of the roof where the beam and the underside of the thatch harbour all manner of rat bat ant and foul thing. 
tietjens meet me in the verandah with a bay like the boom of the bell of st. paul s put her paw on my shoulder to show she be glad to see me. strickland have contrive to claw together a sort of meal which he call lunch and immediately after it be finish go out about his business. i be leave alone with tietjens and my own affair. the heat of the summer have break up and turn to the warm damp of the rain. there be no motion in the heat air but the rain fell like ramrod on the earth and fling up a blue mist when it splash back. the bamboo and the custard apple the poinsettia and the mango tree in the garden stand still while the warm water lash through them and the frog begin to sing among the aloe hedge. a little before the light fail and when the rain be at it bad i sit in the back verandah and hear the water roar from the eaves and scratch myself because i be cover with the thing call prickly heat. tietjens come out with me and put her head in my lap and be very sorrowful. so i give her biscuit when tea be ready and i take tea in the back verandah on account of the little coolness find there. the room of the house be dark behind me. i could smell strickland s saddlery and the oil on his gun and i have no desire to sit among these thing. my own servant come to me in the twilight the muslin of his clothe cling tightly to his drench body and tell me that a gentleman have call and wish to see some one. very much against my will but only because of the darkness of the room i go into the naked draw room tell my man to bring the light. there might or might not have be a caller wait it seem to me that i saw a figure by one of the window but when the light come there be nothing save the spike of the rain without and the smell of the drink earth in my nostril. i explain to my servant that he be no wise than he ought to be and go back to the verandah to talk to tietjens. she have go out into the wet and i could hardly coax her back to me. even with biscuit with sugar top. strickland come home drip wet just before dinner and the first thing he say be. 
ha any one call. 
i explain with apology that my servant have summon me into the draw room on a false alarm. or that some loafer have try to call on strickland and think good of it have flee after give his name. strickiand order dinner without comment and since it be a real dinner with a white tablecloth attach we sit down. 
at nine o clock strickland want to go to bed and i be tire too. tietjens who have be lie underneath the table rise up and swing into the least expose verandah a soon a her master move to his own room which be next to the stately chamber set apart for tietjens. if a mere wife have wish to sleep out of door in that pelt rain it would not have matter. but tietjens be a dog and therefore the good animal. i look at strickland expect to see him flay her with a whip. he smile queerly a a man would smile after tell some unpleasant domestic tragedy. she ha do this ever since i move in here say he. let her go. 
the dog be strickland s dog so i say nothing but i felt all that strickland felt in be thus make light of. tietjens encamp outside my bedroom window and storm after storm come up thunder on the thatch and die away. the lightning spatter the sky a a throw egg spatter a barn door but the light be pale blue not yellow. and look through my split bamboo blind i could see the great dog stand not sleep in the verandah the hackle alift on her back and her foot anchor a tensely a the draw wire rope of a suspension bridge. in the very short pause of the thunder i try to sleep but it seem that some one want me very urgently. he whoever he be be try to call me by name but his voice be no more than a husky whisper. the thunder cease and tietjens go into the garden and howl at the low moon. somebody try to open my door walk about and about through the house and stand breathe heavily in the verandah and just when i be fall asleep i fancy that i hear a wild hammer and clamour above my head or on the door. 
i run into strickland s room and ask him whether he be ill and have be call for me. he be lie on his bed half dress a pipe in his mouth. i think you d come he say. have i be walk round the house recently. 
i explain that he have be tramp in the din room and the smoke room and two or three other place and he laugh and tell me to go back to bed. i go back to bed and sleep till the morning but through all my mix dream i be sure i be do some one an injustice in not attend to his want. what those want be i could not tell. but a flutter whisper bolt fumble lurk loiter someone be reproach me for my slackness and half awake i hear the howl of tietjens in the garden and the thresh of the rain. 
i live in that house for two day. strickland go to his office daily leave me alone for eight or ten hour with tietjens for my only companion. a long a the full light last i be comfortable and so be tietjens. but in the twilight she and i move into the back verandah and cuddle each other for company. we be alone in the house but none the le it be much too fully occupy by a tenant with whom i do not wish to interfere. i never saw him but i could see the curtain between the room quiver where he have just pass through. i could hear the chair creak a the bamboo spring under a weight that have just quit them. and i could feel when i go to get a book from the din room that somebody be wait in the shadow of the front verandah till i should have go away. tietjens make the twilight more interest by glare into the darken room with every hair erect and follow the motion of something that i could not see. she never enter the room but her eye move interestedly. that be quite sufficient. only when my servant come to trim the lamp and make all light and habitable she would come in with me and spend her time sit on her haunch watch an invisible extra man a he move about behind my shoulder. dog be cheerful companion. 
i explain to strickland gently a might be that i would go over to the club and find for myself quarter there. i admire his hospitality be please with his gun and rod but i do not much care for his house and it atmosphere. he hear me out to the end and then smile very wearily but without contempt for he be a man who understand thing. stay on he say and see what this thing mean. all you have talk about i have know since i take the bungalow. stay on and wait. tietjens ha leave me. be you go too. 
i have see him through one little affair connect with a heathen idol that have bring me to the door of a lunatic asylum and i have no desire to help him through further experience. he be a man to whom unpleasantness arrive a do dinner to ordinary people. 
therefore i explain more clearly than ever that i like him immensely and would be happy to see him in the daytime. but that i do not care to sleep under his roof. this be after dinner when tietjens have go out to lie in the verandah. 
pon my soul i don t wonder say strickland with his eye on the ceiling cloth. look at that. 
the tail of two brown snake be hang between the cloth and the cornice of the wall. they throw long shadow in the lamplight. 
if you be afraid of snake of course say strickland. 
i hate and fear snake because if you look into the eye of any snake you will see that it know all and more of the mystery of man s fall and that it feel all the contempt that the devil felt when adam be evict from eden. besides which it bite be generally fatal and it twist up trouser leg. 
you ought to get your thatch overhaul i say. 
give me a mahseer rod and we ll poke em down. 
they ll hide among the roof beam say strickland. i can t stand snake overhead. i m go up into the roof. if i shake em down stand by with a clean rod and break their back. 
i be not anxious to assist strickland in his work but i take the clean rod and wait in the din room while strickland bring a gardener s ladder from the verandah and set it against the side of the room. 
the snake tail draw themselves up and disappear. we could hear the dry rush scuttle of long body run over the baggy ceiling cloth. strickland take a lamp with him while i try to make clear to him the danger of hunt roof snake between a ceiling cloth and a thatch apart from the deterioration of property cause by rip out ceiling cloth. 
nonsense. say strickland. they re sure to hide near the wall by the cloth. the brick be too cold for em and the heat of the room be just what they like. he put his hand to the corner of the stuff and rip it from the cornice. it give with a great sound of tear and strickland put his head through the open into the dark of the angle of the roof beam. i set my teeth and lift the rod for i have not the least knowledge of what might descend. 
h m. say strickland and his voice roll and rumble in the roof. there s room for another set of room up here and by jove some one be occupy em. 
snake. i say from below. 
no. it s a buffalo. hand me up the two last joint of a mahseer rod and i ll prod it. it s lie on the main roof beam. 
i hand up the rod. 
what a nest for owl and serpent. no wonder the snake live here say strickland climb farther into the roof. i could see his elbow thrust with the rod. come out of that whoever you be. head below there. it s fall. 
i saw the ceiling cloth nearly in the centre of the room bag with a shape that be press it downwards and downwards towards the light lamp on the table. i snatch the lamp out of danger and stand back. then the cloth rip out from the wall tear split sway and shoot down upon the table something that i dare not look at till strickland have slide down the ladder and be stand by my side. 
he do not say much be a man of few word. but he pick up the loose end of the tablecloth and throw it over the remnant on the table. 
it strike me say he put down the lamp our friend imray ha come back. oh. you would would you. 
there be a movement under the cloth and a little snake wriggle out to be back break by the butt of the mahseer rod. i be sufficiently sick to make no remark worth record. 
strickland meditate and help himself to drink. the arrangement under the cloth make no more sign of life. 
be it imray. i say. 
strickland turn back the cloth for a moment and look. 
it be imray he say. and his throat be cut from ear to ear. 
then we speak both together and to ourselves. that s why he whisper about the house. 
tietjens in the garden begin to bay furiously. a little late her great nose heave open the din room door. 
she sniff and be still. the tattered ceiling cloth hang down almost to the level of the table and there be hardly room to move away from the discovery. 
tietjens come in and sit down. her teeth bar under her lip and her forepaw plant. she look at strickland. 
it s a bad business old lady say he. men don t climb up into the roof of their bungalow to die and they don t fasten up the ceiling cloth behind em. let s think it out. 
let s think it out somewhere else i say. 
excellent idea. turn the lamp out. we ll get into my room. 
i do not turn the lamp out. i go into strickland s room first and allow him to make the darkness. then he follow me and we light tobacco and think. strickland think. i smoke furiously because i be afraid. 
imray be back say strickland. the question be who kill imray. don t talk i ve a notion of my own. when i take this bungalow i take over most of imray s servant. imray be guileless and inoffensive wasn t he. 
i agree. though the heap under the cloth have look neither one thing nor the other. 
if i call in all the servant they will stand fast in a crowd and lie like aryan. what do you suggest. 
call em in one by one i say. 
they ll run away and give the news to all their fellow say strickland. we must segregate em. do you suppose your servant know anything about it. 
he may for aught i know. but i don t think it s likely. he ha only be here two or three day i answer. what s your notion. 
i can t quite tell. how the dickens do the man get the wrong side of the ceiling cloth. 
there be a heavy cough outside strickland s bedroom door. this show that bahadur khan his body servant have wake from sleep and wish to put strickland to bed. 
come in say strickland. it s a very warm night isn t it. 
bahadur khan a great green turbaned six foot mahomedan say that it be a very warm night. but that there be more rain pending which by his honour s favour would bring relief to the country. 
it will be so if god plea say strickland tug off his boot. it be in my mind bahadur khan that i have work thee remorselessly for many day ever since that time when thou first earnest into my service. what time be that. 
ha the heaven bear forget. it be when imray sahib go secretly to europe without warn give. and i even i come into the honour service of the protector of the poor. 
and imray sahib go to europe. 
it be so say among those who be his servant. 
and thou wilt take service with him when he return. 
assuredly sahib. he be a good master and cherish his dependant. 
that be true. i be very tire but i go buck shoot to morrow. give me the little sharp rifle that i use for black buck. it be in the case yonder. 
the man stoop over the case. hand barrel stock and fore end to strickland who fit all together yawn dolefully. then he reach down to the gun case take a solid draw cartridge and slip it into the breech of the express. 
and imray sahib ha go to europe secretly. that be very strange bahadur khan be it not. 
what do i know of the way of the white man. heaven bear. 
very little truly. but thou shalt know more anon. it ha reach me that imray sahib ha return from his so long journeying and that even now he lie in the next room wait his servant. 
sahib. 
the lamplight slide along the barrel of the rifle a they level themselves at bahadur khan s broad breast. 
go and look. say strickland. take a lamp. thy master be tire and he wait thee. go. 
the man pick up a lamp and go into the din room strickland follow and almost push him with the muzzle of the rifle. he look for a moment at the black depth behind the ceiling cloth. at the writhe snake under foot. and last a gray glaze settle on his face at the thing under the tablecloth. 
hast thou see. say strickland after a pause. 
i have see. i be clay in the white man s hand. what doe the presence do. 
hang thee within the month. what else. 
for kill him. nay sahib consider. walk among u his servant he cast his eye upon my child who be four year old. him he bewitch and in ten day he die of the fever my child. 
what say imray sahib. 
he say he be a handsome child and pat him on the head. wherefore my child die. wherefore i kill imray sahib in the twilight when he have come back from office and be sleep. wherefore i drag him up into the roof beam and make all fast behind him. the heaven bear know all thing. i be the servant of the heaven bear. 
strickland look at me above the rifle and say in the vernacular thou art witness to this say. he ha kill. 
bahadur khan stand ashen gray in the light of the one lamp. the need for justification come upon him very swiftly. i be trap he say but the offence be that man s. he cast an evil eye upon my child and i kill and hide him. only such a be serve by devil he glare at tietjens couch stolidly before him only such could know what i do. 
it be clever. but thou shouldst have lash him to the beam with a rope. now thou thyself wilt hang by a rope. orderly. 
a drowsy policeman answer strickland s call. he be follow by another and tietjens sit wondrous still. 
take him to the police station say strickland. there be a case toward. 
do i hang then. say bahadur khan make no attempt to escape and keep his eye on the grind. 
if the sun shine or the water run yes. say strickland. 
bahadur khan step back one long pace quiver and stand still. the two policeman wait further order. 
go. say strickland. 
nay. but i go very swiftly say bahadur khan. look. i be even now a dead man. 
he lift his foot and to the little toe there cling the head of the half kill snake firm fix in the agony of death. 
i come of land hold stock say bahadur khan rock where he stand. it be a disgrace to me to go to the public scaffold. therefore i take this way. be it remember that the sahib s shirt be correctly enumerate and that there be an extra piece of soap in his washbasin. my child be bewitch and i slew the wizard. why should you seek to slay me with the rope. my honour be save and and i die. 
at the end of an hour he die a they die who be bite by the little brown karait and the policeman bore him and the thing under the tablecloth to their appoint place. all be need to make clear the disappearance of imray. 
this say strickland very calmly a he climb into bed be call the nineteenth century. do you hear what that man say. 
i hear i answer. imray make a mistake. 
simply and solely through not know the nature of the oriental and the coincidence of a little seasonal fever. bahadur khan have be with him for four year. 
i shudder. my own servant have be with me for exactly that length of time. when i go over to my own room i find my man wait impassive a the copper head on a penny to pull off my boot. 
what ha befall bahadur khan. say i. 
he be bite by a snake and die. the rest the sahib know be the answer. 
and how much of this matter hast thou know. 
a much a might be gather from one come in in the twilight to seek satisfaction. gently sahib. let me pull off those boot. 
i have just settle to the sleep of exhaustion when i hear strickland shout from his side of the house. 
tietjens ha come back to her place. 
and so she have. the great deerhound be couch statelily on her own bedstead on her own blanket while in the next room the idle empty ceiling cloth waggle a it trail on the table. 
namgay doola. 
there come to the beach a poor exile of erin the dew on his wet robe hang heavy and chill. ere the steamer that bring him have pass out of hearin he be alderman mike inthrojuicin a bill. american song. 
once upon a time there be a king who live on the road to thibet very many mile in the himalaya. his kingdom be eleven thousand foot above the sea and exactly four mile square. but most of the mile stand on end owe to the nature of the country. his revenue be rather le than four hundred pound yearly and they be expend in the maintenance of one elephant and a stand army of five men. he be tributary to the indian government who allow him certain sum for keep a section of the himalaya thibet road in repair. he further increase his revenue by sell timber to the railway company. for he would cut the great deodar tree in his one forest and they fell thunder into the sutlej river and be sweep down to the plain three hundred mile away and become railway tie. now and again this king whose name doe not matter would mount a ringstraked horse and ride score of mile to simla town to confer with the lieutenant governor on matter of state or to assure the viceroy that his sword be at the service of the queen empress. then the viceroy would cause a ruffle of drum to be sound and the ringstraked horse and the cavalry of the state two men in tatter and the herald who bore the silver stick before the king would trot back to their own place which lay between the tail of a heaven climb glacier and a dark birch forest. 
now from such a king always remember that he possess one veritable elephant and could count his descent for twelve hundred year i expect when it be my fate to wander through his dominion no more than mere license to live. 
the night have close in rain and roll cloud blot out the light of the village in the valley. forty mile away untouched by cloud or storm the white shoulder of donga pa the mountain of the council of the god uphold the even star. the monkey sing sorrowfully to each other a they hunt for dry roost in the fern wreathe tree and the last puff of the day wind bring from the unseen village the scent of damp wood smoke hot cake drip undergrowth and rot pine cone. that be the true smell of the himalaya and if once it creep into the blood of a man that man will at the last forget all else return to the hill to die. the cloud close and the smell go away and there remain nothing in all the world except chill white mist and the boom of the sutlej river race through the valley below. a fat tail sheep who do not want to die bleat piteously at my tent door. he be scuffle with the prime minister and the director general of public education and he be a royal gift to me and my camp servant. i express my thank suitably and ask if i might have audience of the king. the prime minister readjust his turban which have fall off in the struggle and assure me that the king would be very please to see me. therefore i despatch two bottle a a foretaste and when the sheep have enter upon another incarnation go to the king s palace through the wet. he have send his army to escort me but the army stay to talk with my cook. soldier be very much alike all the world over. 
the palace be a four room and whitewash mud and timber house the fine in all the hill for a day s journey. the king be dress in a purple velvet jacket white muslin trouser and a saffron yellow turban of price. he give me audience in a little carpet room open off the palace courtyard which be occupy by the elephant of state. the great beast be sheet and anchor from trunk to tail and the curve of his back stand out grandly against the mist. 
the prime minister and the director general of public education be present to introduce me but all the court have be dismiss l the two bottle aforesaid should corrupt their moral. the king cast a wreath of heavy scent flower round my neck a i bow and inquire how my honour presence have the felicity to be. i say that through see his auspicious countenance the mist of the night have turn into sunshine and that by reason of his beneficent sheep his good deed would be remember by the god. he say that since i have set my magnificent foot in his kingdom the crop would probably yield seventy per cent more than the average. i say that the fame of the king have reach to the four corner of the earth and that the nation gnash their teeth when they hear daily of the glory of his realm and the wisdom of his moon like prime minister and lotus like director general of public education. 
then we sit down on clean white cushion and i be at the king s right hand. three minute late he be tell me that the state of the maize crop be something disgraceful and that the railway company would not pay him enough for his timber. the talk shift to and fro with the bottle and we discuss very many stately thing and the king become confidential on the subject of government generally. most of all he dwell on the shortcoming of one of his subject who from all i could gather have be paralyze the executive. 
in the old day say the king i could have order the elephant yonder to trample him to death. now i must e en send him seventy mile across the hill to be try and his keep would be upon the state. the elephant eat everything. 
what be the man s crime rajah sahib. say i. 
firstly he be an outlander and no man of mine own people. secondly since of my favour i give him land upon his first come he refuse to pay revenue. be i not the lord of the earth above and below entitle by right and custom to one eighth of the crop. yet this devil establish himself refuse to pay a single tax. and he bring a poisonous spawn of babe. 
cast him into jail i say. 
sahib the king answer shift a little on the cushion once and only once in these forty year sickness come upon me so that i be not able to go abroad. in that hour i make a vow to my god that i would never again cut man or woman from the light of the sun and the air of god. for i perceive the nature of the punishment. how can i break my vow. be it only the lop of a hand or a foot i should not delay. but even that be impossible now that the english have rule. one or another of my people he look obliquely at the director general of public education would at once write a letter to the viceroy and perhaps i should be deprive of my ruffle of drum. 
he unscrew the mouthpiece of his silver water pipe fit a plain amber mouthpiece and pass his pipe to me. not content with refuse revenue he continue this outlander refuse also the begar. this be the corvee or force labour on the road. and stir my people up to the like treason. yet he be when he will an expert log snatcher. there be none good or bold among my people to clear a block of the river when the log stick fast. 
but he worship strange god say the prime minister deferentially. 
for that i have no concern say the king who be a tolerant a akbar in matter of belief. to each man his own god and the fire or mother earth for u all at last. it be the rebellion that offend me. 
the king ha an army i suggest. ha not the king burn the man s house and leave him naked to the night dew. 
nay a hut be a hut and it hold the life of a man. but once i send my army against him when his excuse become wearisome. of their head he brake three across the top with a stick. the other two men run away. also the gun would not shoot. 
i have see the equipment of the infantry. one third of it be an old muzzle load fowl piece with a rag rust hole where the nipple should have be one third a wire bind matchlock with a worm eat stock and one third a four bore flint duck gun without a flint. 
but it be to be remember say the king reach out for the bottle that he be a very expert log snatcher and a man of a merry face. what shall i do to him sahib. 
this be interest. the timid hill folk would a soon have refuse tax to their king a revenue to their god. 
if it be the king s permission i say i will not strike my tent till the third day and i will see this man. the mercy of the king be god like and rebellion be like unto the sin of witchcraft. moreover both the bottle and another be empty. 
you have my leave to go say the king. 
next morning a crier go through the state proclaim that there be a log jam on the river and that it behove all loyal subject to remove it. the people pour down from their village to the moist warm valley of poppy field. and the king and i go with them. hundred of dress deodar log have catch on a snag of rock and the river be bring down more log every minute to complete the blockade. the water snarl and wrench and worry at the timber and the population of the state begin prod the near log with a pole in the hope of start a general movement. then there go up a shout of namgay doola. namgay doola. and a large red haired villager hurry up strip off his clothe a he run. 
that be he. that be the rebel say the king. now will the dam be clear. 
but why ha he red hair. i ask since red hair among hill folk be a common a blue or green. 
he be an outlander say the king. well do. oh well do. 
namgay doola have scramble out on the jam and be claw out the butt of a log with a rude sort of boat hook. it slide forward slowly a an alligator move three or four others follow it and the green water spout through the gap they have make. then the villager howl and shout and scramble across the log pull and push the obstinate timber and the red head of namgay doola be chief among them all. the log sway and chafe and groan a fresh consignment from upstream batter the now weaken dam. all give way at last in a smother of foam race log bob black head and confusion indescribable. the river toss everything before it. i saw the red head go down with the last remnant of the jam and disappear between the great grind tree trunk. it rise close to the bank and blow like a grampus. namgay doola wring the water out of his eye and make obeisance to the king. i have time to observe him closely. the virulent redness of his shock head and beard be most startle. and in the thicket of hair wrinkle above high cheek bone shine two very merry blue eye. he be indeed an outlander but yet a thibetan in language habit and attire. he speak the lepcha dialect with an indescribable soften of the guttural. it be not so much a lisp a an accent. 
whence comest thou. i ask. 
from thibet. he point across the hill and grin. that grin go straight to my heart. mechanically i hold out my hand and namgay doola shake it. no pure thibetan would have understand the mean of the gesture. he go away to look for his clothe and a he climb back to his village i hear a joyous yell that seem unaccountably familiar. it be the whoop of namgay doola. 
you see now say the king why i would not kill him. he be a bold man among my log but and he shake his head like a schoolmaster i know that before long there will be complaint of him in the court. let u return to the palace and do justice. it be that king s custom to judge his subject every day between eleven and three o clock. i saw him decide equitably in weighty matter of trespass slander and a little wife steal. then his brow cloud and he summon me. 
again it be namgay doola he say despairingly. not content with refuse revenue on his own part he ha bind half his village by an oath to the like treason. never before ha such a thing befall me. nor be my tax heavy. 
a rabbit face villager with a blush rise stick behind his ear advance tremble. he have be in the conspiracy but have tell everything and hop for the king s favour. 
o king say i if it be the king s will let this matter stand over till the morning. only the god can do right swiftly and it may be that yonder villager ha lie. 
nay for i know the nature of namgay doola. but since a guest ask let the matter remain. wilt thou speak harshly to this red head outlander. he may listen to thee. 
i make an attempt that very even but for the life of me i could not keep my countenance. namgay doola grin persuasively and begin to tell me about a big brown bear in a poppy field by the river. would i care to shoot it. i speak austerely on the sin of conspiracy and the certainty of punishment. namgay doola s face cloud for a moment. shortly afterwards he withdraw from my tent and i hear him sing to himself softly among the pine. the word be unintelligible to me but the tune like his liquid insinuate speech seem the ghost of something strangely familiar. 
dir hane mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
sing namgay doola again and again and i rack my brain for that lose tune. it be not till after dinner that i discover some one have cut a square foot of velvet from the centre of my best camera cloth. this make me so angry that i wander down the valley in the hope of meet the big brown bear. i could hear him grunt like a discontent pig in the poppy field and i wait shoulder deep in the dew drip indian corn to catch him after his meal. the moon be at full and draw out the rich scent of the tasselled crop. then i hear the anguish bellow of a himalayan cow one of the little black crummies no big than newfoundland dog. two shadow that look like a bear and her cub hurry past me. i be in act to fire when i saw that they have each a brilliant red head. the less animal be trail some rope behind it that leave a dark track on the path. they pass within six foot of me and the shadow of the moonlight lay velvet black on their face. velvet black be exactly the word for by all the power of moonlight they be mask in the velvet of my camera cloth. i marvel and go to bed. 
next morning the kingdom be in uproar. namgay doola men say have go forth in the night and with a sharp knife have cut off the tail of a cow belong to the rabbit face villager who have betray him. it be sacrilege unspeakable against the holy cow. the state desire his blood but he have retreat into his hut barricade the door and window with big stone and defy the world. 
the king and i and the populace approach the hut cautiously. there be no hope of capture the man without loss of life for from a hole in the wall project the muzzle of an extremely well care for gun the only gun in the state that could shoot. namgay doola have narrowly miss a villager just before we come up. the stand army stand. it could do no more for when it advance piece of sharp shale fly from the window. to these be add from time to time shower of scald water. we saw red head bob up and down in the hut. the family of namgay doola be aid their sire and blood curdle yell of defiance be the only answer to our prayer. 
never say the king puff ha such a thing befall my state. next year i will certainly buy a little cannon. he look at me imploringly. 
be there any priest in the kingdom to whom he will listen. say i for a light be begin to break upon me. 
he worship his own god say the prime minister. we can starve him out. 
let the white man approach say namgay doola from within. all others i will kill. send me the white man. 
the door be throw open and i enter the smoky interior of a thibetan hut cram with child. and every child have flame red hair. a raw cow s tail lay on the floor and by it side two piece of black velvet my black velvet rudely hack into the semblance of mask. 
and what be this shame namgay doola. say i. 
he grin more winningly than ever. there be no shame say he. i do but cut off the tail of that man s cow. he betray me. i be mind to shoot him sahib. but not to death. indeed not to death. only in the leg. 
and why at all since it be the custom to pay revenue to the king. why at all. 
by the god of my father i cannot tell say namgay doola. 
and who be thy father. 
the same that have this gun. he show me his weapon a tower musket bear date and the stamp of the honourable east india company. 
and thy father s name. say i. 
timlay doola say he. at the first i be then a little child it be in my mind that he wear a red coat. 
of that i have no doubt. but repeat the name of thy father thrice or four time. 
he obey and i understand whence the puzzle accent in his speech come. thimla dhula say he excitedly. to this hour i worship his god. 
may i see that god. 
in a little while at twilight time. 
rememberest thou aught of thy father s speech. 
it be long ago. but there be one word which he say often. thus shun. then i and my brother stand upon our foot our hand to our side. thus. 
even so. and what be thy mother. 
a woman of the hill. we be lepchas of darjeeling but me they call an outlander because my hair be a thou seest. 
the thibetan woman his wife touch him on the arm gently. the long parley outside the fort have last far into the day. it be now close upon twilight the hour of the angelus. very solemnly the red head brat rise from the floor and form a semicircle. namgay doola lay his gun against the wall light a little oil lamp and set it before a recess in the wall. pull aside a curtain of dirty cloth he reveal a wear brass crucifix lean against the helmet badge of a long forget east india regiment. thus do my father he say cross himself clumsily. the wife and child follow suit. then all together they strike up the wail chant that i hear on the hillside. 
dir bane mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
i be puzzle no long. again and again they croon a if their heart would break their version of the chorus of the wear of the green. 
they re hang men and woman too for the wear of the green. 
a diabolical inspiration come to me. one of the brat a boy about eight year old be watch me a he sing. i pull out a rupee hold the coin between finger and thumb and look only look at the gun against the wall. a grin of brilliant and perfect comprehension overspread the face of the child. never for an instant stop the song he hold out his hand for the money and then slide the gun to my hand. i might have shoot namgay doola a he chant. but i be satisfy. the blood instinct of the race hold true. namgay doola draw the curtain across the recess. angelus be over. 
thus my father sing. there be much more but i have forget and i do not know the purport of these word but it may be that the god will understand. i be not of this people and i will not pay revenue. 
and why. 
again that soul compel grin. what occupation would be to me between crop and crop. it be good than scar bear. but these people do not understand. he pick the mask from the floor and look in my face a simply a a child. 
by what road didst thou attain knowledge to make these devilry. i say point. 
i cannot tell. i be but a lepcha of darjeeling and yet the stuff. 
which thou hast steal. 
nay surely. do i steal. i desire it so. the stuff the stuff what else should i have do with the stuff. he twist the velvet between his finger. 
but the sin of maim the cow consider that. 
that be true. but oh sahib that man betray me and i have no think but the heifer s tail wave in the moonlight and i have my knife. what else should i have do. the tail come off ere i be aware. sahib thou knowest more than i. 
that be true say i. stay within the door. i go to speak to the king. 
the population of the state be range on the hillside. i go forth and speak to the king. 
o king say i. touch this man there be two course open to thy wisdom. thou canst either hang him from a tree he and his brood till there remain no hair that be red within the land. 
nay say the king. why should i hurt the little child. 
they have pour out of the hut door and be make plump obeisance to everybody. namgay doola wait with his gun across his arm. 
or thou canst discard the impiety of the cow maim raise him to honour in thy army. he come of a race that will not pay revenue. a red flame be in his blood which come out at the top of his head in that glow hair. make him chief of the army. give him honour a may befall and full allowance of work but look to it o king that neither he nor his hold a foot of earth from thee henceforward. fee him with word and favour and also liquor from certain bottle that thou knowest of and he will be a bulwark of defence. but deny him even a tuft of grass for his own. this be the nature that god ha give him. moreover he ha brother. 
the state groan unanimously. 
but if his brother come they will surely fight with each other till they die. or else the one will always give information concern the other. shall he be of thy army o king. choose. 
the king bow his head and i say come forth namgay doola and command the king s army. thy name shall no more be namgay in the mouth of men but patsay doola for a thou hast say i know. 
then namgay doola new christen patsay doola son of timlay doola which be tim doolan go very wrong indeed clasp the king s foot cuff the stand army and hurry in an agony of contrition from temple to temple make offering for the sin of cattle maim. 
and the king be so please with my perspicacity that he offer to sell me a village for twenty pound sterling. but i buy no village in the himalaya so long a one red head flare between the tail of the heaven climb glacier and the dark birch forest. 
i know that breed. 
burtran and bimi. 
the orang outang in the big iron cage lash to the sheep pen begin the discussion. the night be stiflingly hot and a i and han breitmann the big beam german pass him drag our bed to the fore peak of the steamer he rouse himself and chatter obscenely. he have be catch somewhere in the malayan archipelago and be go to england to be exhibit at a shill a head. for four day he have struggle yell and wrench at the heavy bar of his prison without cease and have nearly slay a lascar incautious enough to come within reach of the great hairy paw. 
it would be well for you mine friend if you be a liddle seasick say han breitmann pause by the cage. you haf too much ego in your cosmos. 
the orang outang s arm slide out negligently from between the bar. no one would have believe that it would make a sudden snakelike rush at the german s breast. the thin silk of the sleep suit tear out. han step back unconcernedly to pluck a banana from a bunch hang close to one of the boat. 
too much ego say he peel the fruit and offer it to the cage devil who be rend the silk to tatter. 
then we lay out our bed in the bow among the sleep lascar to catch any breeze that the pace of the ship might give u. the sea be like smoky oil except where it turn to fire under our forefoot and whirl back into the dark in smear of dull flame. there be a thunderstorm some mile away. we could see the glimmer of the lightning. the ship s cow distress by the heat and the smell of the ape beast in the cage low unhappily from time to time in exactly the same key a that in which the look out man answer the hourly call from the bridge. the trample tune of the engine be very distinct and the jar of the ash lift a it be tip into the sea hurt the procession of hush noise. han lay down by my side and light a good night cigar. this be naturally the begin of conversation. he own a voice a soothe a the wash of the sea and store of experience a vast a the sea itself. for his business in life be to wander up and down the world collect orchid and wild beast and ethnological specimen for german and american dealer. i watch the glow end of his cigar wax and wane in the gloom a the sentence rise and fell till i be nearly asleep. the orang outang trouble by some dream of the forest of his freedom begin to yell like a soul in purgatory and to pluck madly at the bar of the cage. 
if he be out now dere would not be much of u leave hereabout say han lazily. he scream goot. see now how i shall tame him when he stop himself. 
there be a pause in the outcry and from han mouth come an imitation of a snake s hiss so perfect that i almost spring to my foot. the sustain murderous sound run along the deck and the wrench at the bar cease. the orang outang be quake in an ecstasy of pure terror. 
dot stop him say han. i learn dot trick in mogoung tanjong when i be collect liddle monkey for some people in berlin. efery one in d world be afraid of d monkey except d snake. so i blay snake against monkey and he keep quite still. dere be too much ego in his cosmos. dot be d soul custom of monkey. be you asleep or will you listen and i will tell a dale dot you shall not pelief. 
there s no tale in the wide world that i can t believe i say. 
if you haf learn pelief you haf learn somedings. now i shall try your pelief. goot. when i be collect dose liddle monkey it be in or und i be in d island of d archipelago over dere in d dark he point southward to new guinea generally mein gott. i would sooner collect life red devil than liddle monkey. when dey do not bite off your thumb dey be always die from nostalgia home sick for dey haf d imperfect soul which be midway arrest in defelopment und too much ego. i be dere for nearly a year und dere i find a man dot be call bertran. he be a frenchman und he be goot man naturalist to his bone. dey say he be an escape convict but he be naturalist und dot be enough for me. he would call all d life beast from d forest und dey would come. i say he be st. francis of assizi in a new dransmigration produce und he laugh und say he haf never preach to d fish. he sell dem for tripang beche de m. 
und dot man who be king of beast tame men he have in d house shust such anoder a dot devil animal in d cage a great orang outang dot think he be a man. he haf find him when he be a child d orang outang und he be child und brother und opera comique all round to betran. he have his room in dot house not a cage but a room mit a bed und sheet und he would go to bed und get up in d morning und smoke his cigar und eat his dinner mit bertran und walk mit him hand in hand which be most horrible. herr gott. i haf see dot beast throw himself back in his chair und laugh when bertran haf make fun of me. he be not a beast. he be a man und he talk to bertran und bertran comprehend for i have see dem. und he be always politeful to me except when i talk too long to bertran und say nod at all to him. den he would pull me away dis great dark devil mit his enormous paw shust a if i be a child. he be not a beast. he be a man. dis i saw pefore i know him three month und bertran he haf saw the same. and bimi d orang outang haf understand u both mit his cigar between his big dog teeth und d blue gum. 
i be dere a year dere und at dere oder island somedimes for monkey und somedimes for butterfly und orchits. one time bertran say to me dot he will be marry because he haf find a girl dot be goot und he enquire if this marry idee be right. i would not say pecause it be not me dot be go to be marry. den he go off court d girl she be a half caste french girl very pretty. haf you get a new light for my cigar. ouf. very pretty. only i say haf you think of bimi. if he pull me away when i talk to you what will he do to your wife. he will pull her in piece. if i be you bertran i would gif my wife for wed present d stuff figure of bimi. by dot time i have learn some ding about d monkey people. shoot him. say bertran. he be your beast i say. if he be mine he would be shoot now. 
den i felt at d back of my neck d finger of bimi. mein gott. i tell you dot he talk through dose finger. it be d deaf and dumb alphabet all gomplete. he slide his hairy arm round my neck und he tilt up my chin und look into my face shust to see if i understand his talk so well a he understand mine. 
see now dere. say bertran und you would shoot him while he be cuddlin you. dot be d teuton ingrate. 
but i know dot i have make bimi a life s enemy pecause his finger haf talk murder through the back of my neck. next dime i see bimi dere be a pistol in my belt und he touch it once und i open d breech to show him it be load. he haf see d liddle monkey kill in d wood. he understand. 
so bertran he be marry and he forget clean about bimi dot be skippin alone on d beach mit d half of a human soul in his belly. i be see him skip und he take a big bough und thrash d sand till he haf make a great hole like a grave. so i say to bertran for any sake kill bimi. he be mad mit d jealousy. 
bertran haf say he be not mad at all. he haf obey und lofe my wife und if she speak he will get her slipper und he look at his wife agross d room. she be a very pretty girl. 
den i say to him dost dou pretend to know monkey und dis beast dot be lash himself mad upon d sand pecause you do not talk to him. shoot him when he come to d house for he haf d light in his eye dot mean kill und kill. bimi come to d house but dere be no light in his eye. it be all put away cunning so cunning und he fetch d girl her slipper und bertran turn to me und say dost dou know him in nine month more dan i haf know him in twelve year. shall a child stab his fader. i haf feed him und he be my child. do not speak this nonsense to my wife or to me any more. 
dot next day bertran come to my house to help me make some wood case for d specimen und he tell me dot he haf leave his wife a liddle while mit bimi in d garden. den i finish my case quick und i say let u go to your house und get a trink. he laugh and say come along dry man. 
his wife be not in d garden und bimi do not come when bertran call. und his wife do not come when he call und he knock at her bedroom door und dot be shut tight lock. den he look at me und his face be white. i break down d door mit my shoulder und d thatch of d roof be tear into a great hole und d sun come in upon d floor. haf you ever see paper in d waste basket or card at whist on d table scatter. dere be no wife dot could be see. i tell you dere be nod in dot room dot might be a woman. dere be stuff on d floor und dot be all. i look at dese thing und i be very sick. but bertran look a liddle long at what be upon the floor und d wall und d hole in d thatch. den he pegan to laugh soft und low und i know und thank gott dot he be mad. he nefer cry he nefer pray. he stand all still in d doorway und laugh to himself. den he say she haf lock herself in dis room and he haf tear up d thatch. fi donc. dot be so. we will mend d thatch und wait for bimi. he will surely come. 
i tell you we wait ten day in dot house after d room be make into a room again und once or twice we saw bimi comin a liddle way from d wood. he be afraid pecause he haf do wrong. bertran call him when he be come to look on the tenth day und bimi come skip along d beach und make noise mit a long piece of black hair in his hand. den bertran laugh and say fi donc. shust a if it be a glass break upon d table. und bimi come near und bertran be honey sweet in his voice und laugh to himself. for three day he make love to bimi pecause bimi would not let himself be touch. den bimi come to dinner at d same table mit u und the hair on his hand be all black und thick mit mit what have dry on d hand. bertran give him sangaree till bimi be drink and stupid und den. 
han pause to puff at his cigar. 
and then. say i. 
und den bertran he kill him mit his hand und i go for a walk upon d beach. it be bertran s own piziness. when i come back d ape he be dead und bertran he be die abofe him. but still he laugh liddle und low und he be quite content. now you know d formula of d strength of d orang outang it be more a seven to one in relation to man. but bertran he haf kill bimi mit sooch ding a gott gif him. dot be d miracle. 
the infernal clamour in the cage recommence. aha. dot friend of ours haf still too much ego in his cosmos. be quiet dou. 
han hiss long and venomously. we could hear the great beast quake in his cage. 
but why in the world didn t you help bertran instead of let him be kill. i ask. 
my friend say han composedly stretch himself to slumber it be not nice even to mineself dot i should live after i haf see dot room mit d hole in d thatch. und bertran he be her husband. goot night und sleep well. 
moti guj mutineer. 
once upon a time there be a coffee planter in india who wish to clear some forest land for coffee plant. when he have cut down all the tree and burn the under wood the stump still remain. dynamite be expensive and slow fire slow. the happy medium for stump clear be the lord of all beat who be the elephant. he will either push the stump out of the grind with his tusk if he ha any or drag it out with rope. the planter therefore hire elephant by one and two and three and fell to work. the very best of all the elephant belong to the very bad of all the driver or mahout. and the superior beast s name be moti guj. he be the absolute property of his mahout which would never have be the case under native rule for moti guj be a creature to be desire by king. and his name be translate mean the pearl elephant. because the british government be in the land deesa the mahout enjoy his property undisturbed. he be dissipate. when he have make much money through the strength of his elephant he would get extremely drink and give moti guj a beat with a tent peg over the tender nail of the forefoot. moti guj never trample the life out of deesa on these occasion for he know that after the beat be over deesa would embrace his trunk and weep and call him his love and his life and the liver of his soul and give him some liquor. moti guj be very fond of liquor arrack for choice though he would drink palm tree toddy if nothing good offer. then deesa would go to sleep between moti guj s forefoot and a deesa generally choose the middle of the public road and a moti guj mount guard over him and would not permit horse foot or cart to pas by traffic be congest till deesa saw fit to wake up. 
there be no sleep in the daytime on the planter s clear. the wage be too high to risk. deesa sit on moti guj s neck and give him order while moti guj root up the stump for he own a magnificent pair of tusk. or pull at the end of a rope for he have a magnificent pair of shoulder while deesa kick him behind the ear and say he be the king of elephant. at even time moti guj would wash down his three hundred pound weight of green food with a quart of arrack and deesa would take a share and sing song between moti guj s leg till it be time to go to bed. once a week deesa lead moti guj down to the river and moti guj lay on his side luxuriously in the shallow while deesa go over him with a coir swab and a brick. moti guj never mistake the pound blow of the latter for the smack of the former that warn him to get up and turn over on the other side. then deesa would look at his foot and examine his eye and turn up the fringe of his mighty ear in case of sore or bud ophthalmia. after inspection the two would come up with a song from the sea moti guj all black and shin wave a tear tree branch twelve foot long in his trunk and deesa knot up his own long wet hair. 
it be a peaceful well pay life till deesa felt the return of the desire to drink deep. he wish for an orgie. the little draught that lead nowhere be take the manhood out of him. 
he go to the planter and my mother s dead say he weep. 
she die on the last plantation two month ago. and she die once before that when you be work for me last year say the planter who know something of the way of nativedom. 
then it s my aunt and she be just the same a a mother to me say deesa weep more than ever. she ha leave eighteen small child entirely without bread and it be i who must fill their little stomach say deesa beat his head on the floor. 
who bring you the news. say the planter. 
the post say deesa. 
there hasn t be a post here for the past week. get back to your line. 
a devastate sickness ha fall on my village and all my wife be die yell deesa really in tear this time. 
call chihun who come from deesa s village say the planter. chihun ha this man a wife. 
he. say chihun. no. not a woman of our village would look at him. they d sooner marry the elephant. chihun snort. deesa weep and bellow. 
you will get into a difficulty in a minute say the planter. go back to your work. 
now i will speak heaven s truth gulp deesa with an inspiration. i haven t be drink for two month. i desire to depart in order to get properly drink afar off and distant from this heavenly plantation. thus i shall cause no trouble. 
a flicker smile cross the planter s face. deesa say he you ve speak the truth and i d give you leave on the spot if anything could be do with moti guj while you re away. you know that he will only obey your order. 
may the light of the heaven live forty thousand year. i shall be absent but ten little day. after that upon my faith and honour and soul i return. a to the inconsiderable interval have i the gracious permission of the heaven bear to call up moti guj. 
permission be grant and in answer to deesa s shrill yell the lordly tusker swing out of the shade of a clump of tree where he have be squirt dust over himself till his master should return. 
light of my heart protector of the drunken mountain of might give ear say deesa stand in front of him. 
moti guj give ear and salute with his trunk. i be go away say deesa. 
moti guj s eye twinkle. he like jaunt a well a his master. one could snatch all manner of nice thing from the roadside then. 
but you you fubsy old pig must stay behind and work. 
the twinkle die out a moti guj try to look delight. he hat stump haul on the plantation. it hurt his teeth. 
i shall be go for ten day o delectable one. hold up your near forefoot and i ll impress the fact upon it warty toad of a dry mud puddle. deesa take a tent peg and bang moti guj ten time on the nail. moti guj grunt and shuffle from foot to foot. 
ten day say deesa you must work and haul and root tree a chihun here shall order you. take up chihun and set him on your neck. moti guj curl the tip of his trunk chihun put his foot there and be swing on to the neck. deesa hand chihun the heavy ankus the iron elephant goad. 
chihun thump moti guj s bald head a a paviour thump a kerbstone. 
moti guj trumpet. 
be still hog of the backwoods. chihun s your mahout for ten day. and now bid me good bye beast after mine own heart. oh my lord my king. jewel of all create elephant lily of the herd preserve your honour health. be virtuous. adieu. 
moti guj lap his trunk round deesa and swing him into the air twice. that be his way of bid the man good bye. 
he ll work now say dessa to the planter. have i leave to go. 
the planter nod and deesa dive into the wood. moti guj go back to haul stump. 
chihun be very kind to him but he felt unhappy and forlorn notwithstanding. chihun give him ball of spice and tickle him under the chin and chihun s little baby coo to him after work be over and chihun s wife call him a darling. but moti guj be a bachelor by instinct a deesa be. he do not understand the domestic emotion. he want the light of his universe back again the drink and the drunken slumber the savage beating and the savage caress. 
none the le he work well and the planter wonder. deesa have vagabond along the road till he meet a marriage procession of his own caste and drink dance and tipple have drift past all knowledge of the lapse of time. 
the morning of the eleventh day dawn and there return no deesa. moti guj be loose from his rope for the daily stint. he swing clear look round shrug his shoulder and begin to walk away a one have business elsewhere. 
hi. ho. come back you shout chihun. come back and put me on your neck misborn mountain. return splendour of the hillside. adornment of all india heave to or i ll bang every toe off your fat fore foot. 
moti guj gurgle gently but do not obey. chihun run after him with a rope and catch him up. moti guj put his ear forward and chihun know what that mean though he try to carry it off with high word. 
none of your nonsense with me say he. to your picket devil son. 
hrrump. say moti guj and that be all that and the forebent ear. 
moti guj put his hand in his pocket chew a branch for a toothpick and stroll about the clear make jest of the other elephant who have just set to work. 
chihun report the state of affair to the planter who come out with a dog whip and crack it furiously. moti guj pay the white man the compliment of charge him nearly a quarter of a mile across the clear and hrrumping him into the verandah. then he stand outside the house chuckle to himself and shake all over with the fun of it a an elephant will. 
we ll thrash him say the planter. he shall have the fine thrash that ever elephant receive. give kala nag and nazim twelve foot of chain apiece and tell them to lay on twenty blow. 
kala nag which mean black snake and nazim be two of the big elephant in the line and one of their duty be to administer the grave punishment since no man can beat an elephant properly. 
they take the whip chain and rattle them in their trunk a they sidle up to moti guj mean to hustle him between them. moti guj have never in all his life of thirty nine year be whip and he do not intend to open new experience. so he wait weave his head from right to leave and measure the precise spot in kala nag s fat side where a blunt tusk would sink deep. kala nag have no tusk. the chain be his badge of authority. but he judge it good to swing wide of moti guj at the last minute and seem to appear a if he have bring out the chain for amusement. nazim turn round and go home early. he do not feel fight fit that morning and so moti guj be leave stand alone with his ear cock. 
that decide the planter to argue no more and moti guj roll back to his inspection of the clear. an elephant who will not work and be not tie up be not quite so manageable a an eighty one ton gun loose in a heavy sea way. he slap old friend on the back and ask them if the stump be come away easily. he talk nonsense concern labour and the inalienable right of elephant to a long nooning. and wander to and fro thoroughly demoralize the garden till sundown when he return to his picket for food. 
if you win t work you shan t eat say chihun angrily. you re a wild elephant and no educate animal at all. go back to your jungle. 
chihun s little brown baby roll on the floor of the hut stretch it fat arm to the huge shadow in the doorway. moti guj know well that it be the dear thing on earth to chihun. he swing out his trunk with a fascinate crook at the end and the brown baby throw itself shout upon it. moti guj make fast and pull up till the brown baby be crow in the air twelve foot above his father s head. 
great chief. say chihun. flour cake of the best twelve in number two foot across and soak in rum shall be yours on the instant and two hundred pound weight of fresh cut young sugar cane therewith. deign only to put down safely that insignificant brat who be my heart and my life to me. 
moti guj tuck the brown baby comfortably between his forefoot that could have knock into toothpick all chihun s hut and wait for his food. he eat it and the brown baby crawl away. moti guj doze and think of deesa. one of many mystery connect with the elephant be that his huge body need le sleep than anything else that life. four or five hour in the night suffice two just before midnight lie down on one side. two just after one o clock lie down on the other. the rest of the silent hour be fill with eat and fidget and long grumble soliloquy. 
at midnight therefore moti guj stride out of his picket for a think have come to him that deesa might be lie drink somewhere in the dark forest with none to look after him. so all that night he chase through the undergrowth blow and trumpet and shake his ear. he go down to the river and blare across the shallow where deesa use to wash him but there be no answer. he could not find deesa but he disturb all the elephant in the line and nearly frighten to death some gypsy in the wood. 
at dawn deesa return to the plantation. he have be very drink indeed and he expect to fall into trouble for outstay his leave. he draw a long breath when he saw that the bungalow and the plantation be still uninjured. for he know something of moti guj s temper. and report himself with many lie and salaam. moti guj have go to his picket for breakfast. his night exercise have make him hungry. 
call up your beast say the planter and deesa shout in the mysterious elephant language that some mahout believe come from china at the birth of the world when elephant and not men be master. moti guj hear and come. elephant do not gallop. they move from spot at vary rate of speed. if an elephant wish to catch an express train he could not gallop but he could catch the train. thus moti guj be at the planter s door almost before chihun notice that he have leave his picket. he fell into deesa s arm trumpet with joy and the man and beast weep and slobber over each other and handle each other from head to heel to see that no harm have befall. 
now we will get to work say deesa. lift me up my son and my joy. 
moti guj swing him up and the two go to the coffee clear to look for irksome stump. 
the planter be too astonish to be very angry. 
l envoi. 
my new cut ashlar take the light where crimson blank the window flare. by my own work before the night great overseer i make my prayer. 
if there be good in that i work thy hand compel it master thine. where i have fail to meet thy think i know through thee the blame be mine. 
one instant s toil to thee deny stand all eternity s offence of that i do with thee to guide to thee through thee be excellence. 
who l all think of eden fade bring st eden to the craftsman s brain godlike to muse o er his own trade and manlike stand with god again. 
the depth and dream of my desire the bitter path wherein i stray thou knowest who hast make the fire thou knowest who hast make the clay. 
one stone the more swing to her place in that dread temple of thy worth it be enough that through thy grace i saw naught common on thy earth. 
take not that vision from my ken. oh whatso er may spoil or speed help me to need no aid from men that i may help such men a need. 
