the riverside literature series. 
kipling story and poem. 
every child should know. 
book ii. 
from rudyard kipling s the seven. 
sea the day work etc. 
edit by. 
mary e. burt and w. t. chapin ph. d. princeton. 
boston new york chicago san francisco. 
houghton mifflin company. 
the riverside press cambridge. 
copyright. 
by rudyard kipling. 
copyright by wolcott balestier. 
copyright by macmillan & company. 
copyright by d. appleton & company. 
copyright by the century company. 
copyright by harper & brother. 
copyright by the curtis publish company. 
publish april. 
the riverside press. 
cambridge · massachusetts. 
* * * * *. 
content. 
page. 
biographical sketch charles eliot norton vii. 
part iv. 
continue from book i riverside literature series no. 
iv. baa baa black sheep. from under the deodar etc. 
v. wee willie winkie. from under the deodar etc. 
vi. the dive of dacca. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
vii. the smoke upon your altar dy. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
viii. recessional. from the five nation. 
ix. l envoi. from the seven sea. 
part v. 
i. the sing song of old man kangaroo. from just so story. 
ii. fuzzy wuzzy. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
iii. the english flag. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
iv. the king. from the seven sea. 
v. to the unknown goddess. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
vi. the galley slave. from departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
vii. the ship that find herself. from the day s work. 
part vi. 
i. a trip across a continent. from captain courageous. 
ii. the child of the zodiac. from many invention. 
iii. the bridge builder. from the day s work. 
iv. the miracle. from the seven sea. 
v. our lady of the snow. from the five nation. 
vi. the song of the woman. from the naulahka. 
vii. the white man s burden. from the five nation. 
* * * * *. 
illustration by rudyard kipling. 
initial for the sing song of old man kangaroo. 
a picture of old man kangaroo when he be the different animal with four short leg. 
old man kangaroo at five in the afternoon when he have get his beautiful hind leg just a big god nqong have promise. 
* * * * *. 
a biographical sketch. 
by charles eliot norton. 
the deep and widespread interest which the writing of mr. rudyard kipling have excite ha naturally lead to curiosity concern their author and to a desire to know the condition of his life. much ha be write about him which ha have little or no foundation in truth. it seem then worth while in order to prevent false or mistake report from be accept a trustworthy and in order to provide for the public such information concern mr. kipling a it ha a right to posse that a correct and authoritative statement of the chief event in his life should be give to it. this be the object of the follow brief narrative. 
* * * * *. 
rudyard kipling be bear at bombay on the th of december. his mother alice daughter of the rev. g. b. macdonald a wesleyan preacher eminent in that denomination and his father john lockwood kipling the son also of a wesleyan preacher be both of yorkshire birth. they have be marry in london early in the year and they name their first bear child after the pretty lake in staffordshire on the border of which their acquaintance have begin. mr. lockwood kipling after leave school have serve his apprenticeship in one of the famous staffordshire pottery at burslem have afterward work in the studio of the sculptor mr. birnie philip and from to have be engage on the decoration of the south kensington museum. during our american war and in the year immediately follow the trade of bombay be exceedingly flourish the city be immensely prosperous a spirit of inflation possess the government and the people alike there be great design for the improvement and rebuild of large portion of the town and a need be felt for artistic oversight and direction of the work in hand and contemplate. the distinction which mr. lockwood kipling have already win by his native ability and thorough train lead to his be appoint in to go to bombay a the professor of architectural sculpture in the british school of art which have be establish there. 
it be thus that rudyard kipling come to be bear in the most cosmopolitan city of the eastern world and it be there and in it neighbourhood that the first three year of the boy s life be spend year in which every child receive ineffaceable impression shape his conception of the world and in which a child of peculiarly sensitive nature and active disposition such a this boy possess lie open to myriad influence that quicken and give colour to the imagination. 
in the spring of he be take by his mother for a visit to england and there in the same year his sister be bear. in the next year his mother return to india with both her child and the boy s next two year be spend at and near bombay. 
he be a friendly and receptive child eager interest in all the various entertain aspect of life in a city which glean all race from all land present more diversify and picturesque variety of human condition than any other east or west. a little incident which his mother remember be not without a pretty allegoric significance. it be at nasik on the dekhan plain not far from bombay. the little fellow trudge over the plough field with his hand in that of the native husbandman call back to her in the hindustani which be a familiar to him a english good bye this be my brother. 
in mr. and mr. kipling go with their child to england and be compel to return to india the next year they take up the sorrow common to anglo indian life in leave their child at home in charge of friend at southsea near portsmouth. it be a hard and sad experience for the boy. the originality of his nature and the independence of his spirit have already become clearly manifest and be likely to render him unintelligible and perplex to whosoever might have charge of him unless they be gift with unusual perception and quick sympathy. happily his mother s sister mr. now lady. burne jones be near at hand in case of need to care for him. 
in the spring of mr. kipling come to england to see her child and be follow the next year by her husband. the child be remove from southsea and rudyard grow into a companionable active mind interest boy now in his thirteenth year have the delight of spend some week in paris with his father attract thither by the exhibition of that year. his eyesight have be for some time a source of trouble to him and the relief be great from glass which be specially fit to his eye and with which he ha never since be able to dispense. 
on the return of his parent to india early in rudyard be place at the school of westward ho at bideford in devon. this school be one chiefly intend for the son of member of the indian service most of whom be look forward to follow their father career a servant of the crown. it be in charge of an admirable head master mr. cormell price whose character be such that he win the affection of his boy no le than their respect. the young kipling be not an easy boy to manage. he choose his own way. his talent be such that he might have hold a place near the high in his study but he be content to let others surpass him in lesson while he yield to his genius in devote himself to original composition and to much read in book of his own choice. he become the editor of the school paper he contribute to the column of the local bideford journal_ he write a quantity of verse and be venturesome enough to send a copy of verse to a london journal which to his infinite satisfaction be accept and publish. some of his verse be afterward collect in a little volume privately print by his parent at lahore with the title schoolboy lyric. all through his time at school his letter to his parent in india be such a to make it clear to them that his future lay in the field of literature. 
his literary gift come to him by inheritance from both the father and mother and they be nurture and cultivate in the circle of relative and family friend with whom his holiday be spend. a sub master at westward ho though little satisfy with the boy s progress in the study of the school give to him the liberty of his own excellent library. the holiday be spend at the grange in south kensington the home of his aunt and uncle mr. and mr. burne jones and here he come under the happy possible domestic influence and be bring into contact with men of high quality whose life be give to letter and the art especially with william morris the close intimate of the household of the grange. other home be open to him where the pervade influence be that of intellectual pursuit and where he have access to library through which he be allow to wander and to browse at his will. the good which come to him directly and indirectly from these opportunity can hardly be overstate. to know to love and to be love by such a man a burne jones be a supreme bless in his life. 
in the autumn of have finish his course at school a position be secure for him on the civil and military gazette_ lahore and he return to his parent in india who have meanwhile remove from bombay to lahore where his father be at the head of the most important school of the art in india. the civil and military gazette be the chief journal of northwestern india own and conduct by the manager and owner of the allahabad pioneer_ the able and most influential of all indian newspaper publish in the interior of the country. 
for five year he work hard and steadily on the gazette. much of the work be simple drudgery. he shirk nothing. the editor in chief be a somewhat grim man who believe in snub his subordinate and who though he recognize the talent of the clever pup a he call him and allow him a pretty free hand in his contribution to the paper yet be incline to exact from him the full tale of the heavy routine work of a newspaper office. 
but these be happy year. for the youth be feel the spring of his own power be full of interest in life be lay up store of observation and experience and find in his own home not only domestic happiness but a sympathy in taste and a variety of talent and accomplishment which act a a continual stimulus to his own genius. father mother sister and brother all play and work together with rare combination of sympathetic gift. in some of the verse with the write of which he and his sister have amuse themselves be publish at lahore in a little volume entitle echo because most of them be lively parody on some of the poem of the popular poet of the day. the little book have it moment of narrowly limit success and open the way for the wide notoriety and success of a volume into which be gather the departmental ditty that have appear from time to time in the gazette. many of the story also which be afterward collect under the now familiar title of plain tale from the hill make their first appearance in the gazette_ and attract wide attention in the anglo indian community. 
kipling s work for five year at lahore have indeed be of such quality that it be not surprise that he be call down to allahabad in to take a place upon the editorial staff of the pioneer. the train of an anglo indian journalist be peculiar. he ha to master knowledge of many kind to become thoroughly acquaint with the affair of the english administration and the condition of anglo indian life and at the same time with the interest the mode of life and think of the vast underlie native population. the high position in indian journalism be place of genuine importance and of large emolument worthy object of ambition for a young man conscious of literary faculty and inspire with zeal for public end. 
the pioneer issue a weekly a well a a daily edition and in addition to his regular work upon the daily paper kipling continue to write for the weekly issue story similar to those which have already win him reputation and they now attract wide attention than ever. his home at allahabad be with professor hill a man of science attach to the allahabad college. but the continuity of his life be break by various journey undertake in the interest of the paper one through rajputana from which he write a series of descriptive letter call letter of marque. another to calcutta and through bengal which result in the city of dreadful night and other letter describe the little know condition of the vast presidency. and finally in he be send off by the pioneer on a tour round the world on which he be accompany by his friend professor and mr. hill. go first to japan he thence come to america write on the way and in america the letter which appear in the pioneer under the title of from sea to sea. and in september he arrive in london. 
his indian repute have not precede him to such degree a to make the way easy for him through the london crowd. but after a somewhat dreary winter during which he have be make acquaintance and have find irregular employment upon newspaper and magazine arrangement be make with messrs. macmillan & co. for the publication of an edition of plain tale from the hill. the book appear in june. it success be immediate. it be republish at once in america and be welcome a warmly on this side of the atlantic a on the other. the reprint of kipling s other indian story and of his departmental ditty speedily follow together with the new tale and poem which show the wide range of his creative genius. each volume be a fresh success. each extend the circle of mr. kipling s reader till now he be the most widely know of english author. 
in mr. kipling leave england for a long voyage to south africa australia new zealand and ceylon and thence to visit his parent at lahore. on his return to england he be marry in london to miss balestier daughter of the late mr. wolcott balestier of new york. shortly after their marriage mr. and mr. kipling visit japan and in august they come to america. they establish their home at brattleboro vermont where mr. kipling s family have a large estate. and here in a pleasant and beautifully situate house which they have build for themselves their two eldest child be bear and here they continue to live till september. 
during these four year mr. kipling make three brief visit to england to see his parent who have leave india and be now settle in the old country. 
the winter of be spend by mr. kipling and his family accompany by his father in south africa. he be everywhere receive with the utmost cordiality and friendliness. 
return to england in the spring of he take a house at rottingdean near brighton with intention to make it his permanent home. 
of the late incident of his life there be no need to speak. 
iv. 
baa baa black sheep. 
at the school council baa baa black sheep be elect to a very high position among the kipling story because it show how mean they be to a boy and he do n t need it. 
baa baa black sheep have you any wool. yes sir. yes sir. three bag full. one for the master one for the dame none for the little boy that cry down the lane. 
nursery rhyme. 
the first bag. 
when i be in my father s house i be in a good place. 
they be put punch to bed the ayah and the hamal and meeta the big surti boy with the red and gold turban. judy already tuck inside her mosquito curtain be nearly asleep. punch have be allow to stay up for dinner. many privilege have be accord to punch within the last ten day and a great kindness from the people of his world have encompass his way and work which be mostly obstreperous. he sit on the edge of his bed and swing his bare leg defiantly. 
punch baba go to bye lo. say the ayah suggestively. 
no say punch. punch baba want the story about the ranee that be turn into a tiger. meeta must tell it and the hamal shall hide behind the door and make tiger noise at the proper time. 
but judy baba will wake up say the ayah. 
judy baba be wake pip a small voice from the mosquito curtain. there be a ranee that live at delhi. go on meeta and she fell asleep again while meeta begin the story. 
never have punch secure the tell of that tale with so little opposition. he reflect for a long time. the hamal make the tiger noise in twenty different key. 
top. say punch authoritatively. why doe n t papa come in and say he be go to give me put put. 
punch baba be go away say the ayah. in another week there will be no punch baba to pull my hair any more. she sigh softly for the boy of the household be very dear to her heart. 
up the ghauts in a train. say punch stand on his bed. all the way to nassick where the ranee tiger life. 
not to nassick this year little sahib say meeta lift him on his shoulder. down to the sea where the cocoanut be throw and across the sea in a big ship. will you take meeta with you to belait. 
you shall all come say punch from the height of meeta s strong arm. meeta and the ayah and the hamal and bhini in the garden and the salaam captain sahib snake man. 
there be no mockery in meeta s voice when he reply great be the sahib s favour and lay the little man down in the bed while the ayah sit in the moonlight at the doorway lull him to sleep with an interminable canticle such a they sing in the roman catholic church at parel. punch curl himself into a ball and sleep. 
next morning judy shout that there be a rat in the nursery and thus he forget to tell her the wonderful news. it do not much matter for judy be only three and she would not have understand. but punch be five. and he know that go to england would be much nice than a trip to nassick. 
* * * * *. 
and papa and mamma sell the brougham and the piano and strip the house and curtail the allowance of crockery for the daily meal and take long council together over a bundle of letter bear the rocklington postmark. 
the bad of it be that one can t be certain of anything say papa pull his moustache. the letter in themselves be excellent and the term be moderate enough. 
the bad of it be that the child will grow up away from me think mamma. but she do not say it aloud. 
we be only one case among hundred say papa bitterly. you shall go home again in five year dear. 
punch will be ten then and judy eight. oh how long and long and long the time will be. and we have to leave them among stranger. 
punch be a cheery little chap. he s sure to make friend wherever he go. 
and who could help love my ju. 
they be stand over the cot in the nursery late at night and i think that mamma be cry softly. after papa have go away she kneel down by the side of judy s cot. the ayah saw her and put up a prayer that the memsahib might never find the love of her child take away from her and give to a strange. 
mamma s own prayer be a slightly illogical one. summarize it run. let stranger love my child and be a good to them a i should be but let me preserve their love and their confidence for ever and ever. amen. punch scratch himself in his sleep and judy moan a little. that seem to be the only answer to the prayer. and next day they all go down to the sea and there be a scene at the apollo bunder when punch discover that meeta could not come too and judy learn that the ayah must be leave behind. but punch find a thousand fascinate thing in the rope block and steam pipe line on the big p. and o. steamer long before meeta and the ayah have dry their tear. 
come back punch baba say the ayah. 
come back say meeta and be a burra sahib. 
yes say punch lift up in his father s arm to wave good bye. yes i will come back and i will be a burra sahib bahadur. 
at the end of the first day punch demand to be set down in england which he be certain must be close at hand. next day there be a merry breeze and punch be very sick. when i come back to bombay say punch on his recovery i will come by the road in a broom gharri. this be a very naughty ship. 
the swedish boatswain console him and he modify his opinion a the voyage go on. there be so much to see and to handle and ask question about that punch nearly forget the ayah and meeta and the hamal and with difficulty remember a few word of the hindustani once his second speech. 
but judy be much bad. the day before the steamer reach southampton mamma ask her if she would not like to see the ayah again. judy s blue eye turn to the stretch of sea that have swallow all her tiny past and she say. ayah. what ayah. 
mamma cry over her and punch marvel. it be then that he hear for the first time mamma s passionate appeal to him never to let judy forget mamma. see that judy be young ridiculously young and that mamma every even for four week past have come into the cabin to sing her and punch to sleep with a mysterious tune that he call sonny my soul punch could not understand what mamma mean. but he strive to do his duty for the moment mamma leave the cabin he say to judy. ju you bemember mamma. 
torse i do say judy. 
then always bemember mamma r else i win t give you the paper duck that the red haired captain sahib cut out for me. 
so judy promise always to bemember mamma. 
many and many a time be mamma s command lay upon punch and papa would say the same thing with an insistence that awe the child. 
you must make haste and learn to write punch say papa and then you ll be able to write letter to u in bombay. 
i ll come into your room say punch and papa choke. 
papa and mamma be always choke in those day. if punch take judy to task for not bemembering they choke. if punch sprawl on the sofa in the southampton lodge house and sketch his future in purple and gold they choke. and so they do if judy put up her mouth for a kiss. 
through many day all four be vagabond on the face of the earth. punch with no one to give order to judy too young for anything and papa and mamma grave distract and choke. 
where demand punch weary of a loathsome contrivance on four wheel with a mound of luggage atop where be our broom gharri. this thing talk so much that i can t talk. where be our own broom gharri. when i be at bandstand before we come away i ask inverarity sahib why he be sit in it and he say it be his own. and i say i will give it you i like inverarity sahib and i say can you put your leg through the pully wag loop by the window. and inverarity sahib say no and laugh. i can put my leg through the pully wag loop. i can put my leg through these pully wag loop. look. oh mamma s cry again. i do n t know. i be n t not to do so. 
punch draw his leg out of the loop of the four wheeler. the door open and he slide to the earth in a cascade of parcel at the door of an austere little villa whose gate bore the legend downe lodge. punch gather himself together and eye the house with disfavour. it stand on a sandy road and a cold wind tickle his knickerbockered leg. 
let u go away say punch. this be not a pretty place. 
but mamma and papa and judy have quit the cab and all the luggage be be take into the house. at the door step stand a woman in black and she smile largely with dry chap lip. behind her be a man big bony gray and lame a to one leg behind him a boy of twelve black haired and oily in appearance. punch survey the trio and advance without fear a he have be accustom to do in bombay when caller come and he happen to be play in the veranda. 
how do you do. say he. i be punch. but they be all look at the luggage all except the gray man who shake hand with punch and say he be a smart little fellow. there be much run about and bang of box and punch curl himself up on the sofa in the din room and consider thing. 
i don t like these people say punch. but never mind. we ll go away soon. we have always go away soon from everywhere. i wish we be go back to bombay soon. 
the wish bore no fruit. for six day mamma weep at interval and show the woman in black all punch s clothe a liberty which punch resent. but p rap she s a new white ayah he think. i m to call her antirosa but she doe n t call me sahib. she say just punch he confide to judy. what be antirosa. 
judy do n t know. neither she nor punch have hear anything of an animal call an aunt. their world have be papa and mamma who know everything permit everything and love everybody even punch when he use to go into the garden at bombay and fill his nail with mold after the weekly nail cut because a he explain between two stroke of the slipper to his sorely try father his finger felt so new at the end. 
in an undefined way punch judge it advisable to keep both parent between himself and the woman in black and the boy in black hair. he do not approve of them. he like the gray man who have express a wish to be call uncleharri. they nod at each other when they meet and the gray man show him a little ship with rig that take up and down. 
she be a model of the brisk the little brisk that be sore expose that day at navarino. the gray man hum the last word and fell into a reverie. i ll tell you about navarino punch when we go for walk together. and you must n t touch the ship because she s the brisk. 
long before that walk the first of many be take they rouse punch and judy in the chill dawn of a february morning to say good bye. and of all people in the wide earth to papa and mamma both cry this time. punch be very sleepy and judy be cross. 
don t forget u plead mamma. oh my little son don t forget u and see that judy remember too. 
i ve tell judy to bemember say punch wiggle for his father s beard tickle his neck. i ve tell judy ten forty leven thousand time. but ju s so young quite a baby be n t she. 
yes say papa quite a baby and you must be good to judy and make haste to learn to write and and and. 
punch be back in his bed again. judy be fast asleep and there be the rattle of a cab below. papa and mamma have go away. not to nassick. that be across the sea. to some place much near of course and equally of course they would return. they come back after dinner party and papa have come back after he have be to a place call the snow and mamma with him to punch and judy at mr. inverarity s house in marine line. assuredly they would come back again. so punch fell asleep till the true morning when the black haired boy meet him with the information that papa and mamma have go to bombay and that he and judy be to stay at downe lodge forever. antirosa tearfully appeal to for a contradiction say that harry have speak the truth and that it behoove punch to fold up his clothe neatly on go to bed. punch go out and weep bitterly with judy into whose fair head he have drive some idea of the mean of separation. 
when a mature man discover that he ha be desert by providence deprive of his god and cast without help comfort or sympathy upon a world which be new and strange to him his despair which may find expression in evil live the write of his experience or the more satisfactory diversion of suicide be generally suppose to be impressive. a child under exactly similar circumstance a far a it knowledge go cannot very well curse god and die. it howl till it nose be red it eye be sore and it head ache. punch and judy through no fault of their own have lose all their world. they sit in the hall and cry. the black haired boy look on from afar. 
the model of the ship avail nothing though the gray man assure punch that he might pull the rig up and down a much a he please. and judy be promise free entry into the kitchen. they want papa and mamma go to bombay beyond the sea and their grief while it last be without remedy. 
when the tear cease the house be very still. antirosa have decide it be good to let the child have their cry out and the boy have go to school. punch raise his head from the floor and sniff mournfully. judy be nearly asleep. three short year have not teach her how to bear sorrow with full knowledge. there be a distant dull boom in the air a repeat heavy thud. punch know that sound in bombay in the monsoon. it be the sea the sea that must be traverse before anyone could get to bombay. 
quick ju. he cry we re close to the sea. i can hear it. listen. that s where they ve go. p rap we can catch them if we be in time. they do n t mean to go without u. they ve only forget. 
i say judy. they ve only forgotted. le go to the sea. 
the hall door be open and so be the garden gate. 
it s very very big this place he say look cautiously down the road and we will get lose. but i will find a man and order him to take me back to my house like i do in bombay. 
he take judy by the hand and the two flee hatless in the direction of the sound of the sea. downe villa be almost the last of a range of newly build house run out through a chaos of brick mound to a heath where gypsy occasionally camp and where the garrison artillery of rocklington practise. there be few people to be see and the child might have be take for those of the soldiery who range far. half an hour the weary little leg tramp across heath potato field and sand dune. 
i se so tire say judy and mamma will be angry. 
mamma s never angry. i suppose she be wait at the sea now while papa get ticket. we ll find them and go along with them. ju you must n t sit down. only a little more and we ll come to the sea. ju if you sit down i ll thmack you. say punch. 
they climb another dune and come upon the great gray sea at low tide. hundred of crab be scuttle about the beach but there be no trace of papa and mamma not even of a ship upon the water nothing but sand and mud for mile and mile. 
and uncleharri find them by chance very muddy and very forlorn punch dissolve in tear but try to divert judy with an ickle trab and judy wail to the pitiless horizon for mamma mamma. and again mamma. 
the second bag. 
ah well a day for we be soul bereave. of all the creature under heaven s wide scope we be most hopeless who have once most hope and most beliefless who have most believe. 
the city of dreadful night. 
all this time not a word about black sheep. he come late and harry the black haired boy be mainly responsible for his come. judy who could help love little judy. pass by special permit into the kitchen and thence straight to aunty rosa s heart. harry be aunty rosa s one child and punch be the extra boy about the house. there be no special place for him or his little affair and he be forbid to sprawl on sofa and explain his idea about the manufacture of this world and his hope for his future. sprawl be lazy and wear out sofa and little boy be not expect to talk. they be talk to and the talk to be intend for the benefit of their moral. a the unquestioned despot of the house at bombay punch could not quite understand how he come to be of no account in this new life. 
harry might reach across the table and take what he want. judy might point and get what she want. punch be forbid to do either. the gray man be his great hope and stand by for many month after mamma and papa leave and he have forget to tell judy to bemember mamma. 
this lapse be excusable because in the interval he have be introduce by aunty rosa to two very impressive thing an abstraction call god the intimate friend and ally of aunty rosa generally believe to live behind the kitchen range because it be hot there and a dirty brown book fill with unintelligible dot and mark. punch be always anxious to oblige everybody. he therefore weld the story of the creation on to what he could recollect of his indian fairy tale and scandalize aunty rosa by repeat the result to judy. it be a sin a grievous sin and punch be talk to for a quarter of an hour. he could not understand where the iniquity come in but be careful not to repeat the offence because aunty rosa tell him that god have hear every word he have say and be very angry. if this be true why do n t god come and say so think punch and dismiss the matter from his mind. afterward he learn to know the lord a the only thing in the world more awful than aunty rosa a a creature that stand in the background and count the stroke of the cane. 
but the read be just then a much more serious matter than any creed. aunty rosa sit him upon a table and tell him that a b mean ab. 
why. say punch. a be a and b be bee. why doe a b mean ab. 
because i tell you it doe say aunty rosa and you ve get to say it. 
punch say it accordingly and for a month hugely against his will stumble through the brown book not in the least comprehend what it mean. but uncle harry who walk much and generally alone be wont to come into the nursery and suggest to aunty rosa that punch should walk with him. he seldom speak but he show punch all rocklington from the mud bank and the sand of the back bay to the great harbour where ship lay at anchor and the dockyard where the hammer be never still and the marine store shop and the shiny brass counter in the office where uncle harry go once every three month with a slip of blue paper and receive sovereign in exchange. for he hold a wind pension. punch hear too from his lip the story of the battle of navarino where the sailor of the fleet for three day afterward be deaf a post and could only sign to each other. that be because of the noise of the gun say uncle harry and i have get the wad of a bullet somewhere inside me now. 
punch regard him with curiosity. he have not the least idea what wad be and his notion of a bullet be a dockyard cannon ball big than his own head. how could uncle harry keep a cannon ball inside him. he be ashamed to ask for fear uncle harry might be angry. 
punch have never know what anger real anger mean until one terrible day when harry have take his paint box to paint a boat with and punch have protest with a loud and lamentable voice. then uncle harry have appear on the scene and mutter something about stranger child have with a stick smite the black haired boy across the shoulder till he weep and yell and aunty rosa come in and abuse uncle harry for cruelty to his own flesh and blood and punch shudder to the tip of his shoe. it be n t my fault he explain to the boy but both harry and aunty rosa say that it be and that punch have tell tale and for a week there be no more walk with uncle harry. 
but that week bring a great joy to punch. 
he have repeat till he be thrice weary the statement that the cat lay on the mat and the rat come in. 
now i can truly read say punch and now i will never read anything in the world. 
he put the brown book in the cupboard where his schoolbook live and accidentally tumble out a venerable volume without cover label sharpe s magazine. there be the most portentous picture of a griffin on the first page with verse below. the griffin carry off one sheep a day from a german village till a man come with a falchion and split the griffin open. goodness only know what a falchion be but there be the griffin and his history be an improvement upon the eternal cat. 
this say punch mean thing and now i will know all about everything in all the world. he read till the light fail not understand a tithe of the mean but tantalize by glimpse of new world hereafter to be reveal. 
what be a falchion. what be a e wee lamb. what be a base ussurper. what be a verdant me ad. he demand with flush cheek at bedtime of the astonish aunt rosa. 
say your prayer and go to sleep she reply and that be all the help punch then or afterward find at her hand in the new and delightful exercise of read. 
aunt rosa only know about god and thing like that argue punch. uncle harry will tell me. 
the next walk prove that uncle harry could not help either. but he allow punch to talk and even sit down on a bench to hear about the griffin. other walk bring other story a punch range farther afield for the house hold large store of old book that no one ever open from frank fairlegh in serial number and the early poem of tennyson contribute anonymously to sharpe s magazine_ to exhibition catalogue gay with colour and delightfully incomprehensible and odd leaf of gulliver s travel. 
a soon a punch could string a few pot hook together he write to bombay demand by return of post all the book in all the world. papa could not comply with this modest indent but send grimm s fairy tale and a han andersen. that be enough. if he be only leave alone punch could pas at any hour he choose into a land of his own beyond reach of aunty rosa and her god harry and his teasements and judy s claim to be play with. 
don t disturb me i m read. go and play in the kitchen grunt punch. aunty rosa let you go there. judy be cut her second teeth and be fretful. she appeal to aunty rosa who descend on punch. 
i be read he explain read a book. i want to read. 
you re only do that to show off say aunty rosa. but we ll see. play with judy now and don t open a book for a week. 
judy do not pas a very enjoyable playtime with punch who be consume with indignation. there be a pettiness at the bottom of the prohibition which puzzle him. 
it s what i like to do he say and she s find out that and stop me. don t cry ju it be n t your fault please don t cry or she ll say i make you. 
ju loyally mop up her tear and the two play in their nursery a room in the basement and half underground to which they be regularly send after the midday dinner while aunty rosa sleep. she drink wine that be to say something from a bottle in the cellaret for her stomach s sake but if she do not fall asleep she would sometimes come into the nursery to see that the child be really play. now brick wooden hoop ninepin and chinaware cannot amuse forever especially when all fairyland be to be win by the mere open of a book and a often a not punch would be discover read to judy or tell her interminable tale. that be an offence in the eye of the law and judy would be whisk off by aunty rosa while punch be leave to play alone and be sure that i hear you do it. 
it be not a cheer employ for he have to make a playful noise. at last with infinite craft he devise an arrangement whereby the table could be support a to three leg on toy brick leave the fourth clear to bring down on the floor. he could work the table with one hand and hold a book with the other. this he do till an evil day when aunty rosa pounce upon him unawares and tell him that he be act a lie. 
if you re old enough to do that she say her temper be always bad after dinner you re old enough to be beat. 
but i m i m not a animal. say punch aghast. he remember uncle harry and the stick and turn white. aunty rosa have hide a light cane behind her and punch be beat then and there over the shoulder. it be a revelation to him. the room door be shut and he be leave to weep himself into repentance and work out his own gospel of life. 
aunty rosa he argue have the power to beat him with many stripe. it be unjust and cruel and mamma and papa would never have allow it. unless perhaps a aunty rosa seem to imply they have send secret order. in which case he be abandon indeed. it would be discreet in the future to propitiate aunty rosa but then again even in matter in which he be innocent he have be accuse of wish to show off. he have show off before visitor when he have attack a strange gentleman harry s uncle not his own with request for information about the griffin and the falchion and the precise nature of the tilbury in which frank fairlegh ride all point of paramount interest which he be burst to understand. clearly it would not do to pretend to care for aunty rosa. 
at this point harry enter and stand afar off eye punch a dishevel heap in the corner of the room with disgust. 
you re a liar a young liar say harry with great unction and you re to have tea down here because you re not fit to speak to u. and you re not to speak to judy again till mother give you leave. you ll corrupt her. you re only fit to associate with the servant. mother say so. 
have reduce punch to a second agony of tear harry depart upstairs with the news that punch be still rebellious. 
uncle harry sit uneasily in the din room. d it all rosa say he at last can t you leave the child alone. he s a good enough little chap when i meet him. 
he put on his best manner with you henry say aunty rosa but i m afraid i m very much afraid that he be the black sheep of the family. 
harry hear and store up the name for future use. judy cry till she be bid to stop her brother not be worth tear. and the even conclude with the return of punch to the upper region and a private sit at which all the blind horror of hell be reveal to punch with such store of imagery a aunty rosa s narrow mind possess. 
most grievous of all be judy s round eye reproach and punch go to bed in the depth of the valley of humiliation. he share his room with harry and know the torture in store. for an hour and a half he have to answer that young gentleman s question a to his motif for tell a lie and a grievous lie the precise quantity of punishment inflict by aunty rosa and have also to profess his deep gratitude for such religious instruction a harry think fit to impart. 
from that day begin the downfall of punch now black sheep. 
untrustworthy in one thing untrustworthy in all say aunty rosa and harry felt that black sheep be deliver into his hand. he would wake him up in the night to ask him why he be such a liar. 
i don t know punch would reply. 
then don t you think you ought to get up and pray to god for a new heart. 
y yes. 
get out and pray then. and punch would get out of bed with rag hate in his heart against all the world see and unseen. he be always tumble into trouble. harry have a knack of cross examine him a to his day s do which seldom fail to lead him sleepy and savage into half a dozen contradiction all duly report to aunty rosa next morning. 
but it be n t a lie punch would begin charge into a labour explanation that land him more hopelessly in the mire. i say that i do n t say my prayer twice over in the day and that be on tuesday. once i do i know i do but harry say i do n t and so forth till the tension bring tear and he be dismiss from the table in disgrace. 
you use n t to be a bad a this. say judy awe stricken at the catalogue of black sheep s crime. why be you so bad now. 
i don t know black sheep would reply. i m not if i only be n t bother upside down. i know what i do and i want to say so. but harry always make it out different somehow and aunty rosa doe n t believe a word i say. oh ju. don t you say i m bad too. 
aunty rosa say you be say judy. she tell the vicar so when he come yesterday. 
why doe she tell all the people outside the house about me. it be n t fair say black sheep. when i be in bombay and be bad do bad not make up bad like this mamma tell papa and papa tell me he know and that be all. outside people do n t know too even meeta do n t know. 
i don t remember say judy wistfully. i be all little then. mamma be just a fond of you a she be of me be n t she. 
course she be. so be papa. so be everybody. 
aunty rosa like me more than she doe you. she say that you be a trial and a black sheep and i m not to speak to you more than i can help. 
always. not outside of the time when you must n t speak to me at all. 
judy nod her head mournfully. black sheep turn away in despair but judy s arm be round his neck. 
never mind punch she whisper. i will speak to you just the same a ever and ever. you re my own own brother though you be though aunty rosa say you re bad and harry say you re a little coward. he say that if i pull your hair hard you d cry. 
pull then say punch. 
judy pull gingerly. 
pull hard a hard a you can. there. i don t mind how much you pull it now. if you ll speak to me same a ever i ll let you pull it a much a you like pull it out if you like. but i know if harry come and stand by and make you do it i d cry. 
so the two child seal the compact with a kiss and black sheep s heart be cheer within him and by extreme caution and careful avoidance of harry he acquire virtue and be allow to read undisturbed for a week. uncle harry take him for walk and console him with rough tenderness never call him black sheep. it s good for you i suppose punch he use to say. let u sit down. i m get tire. his step lead him now not to the beach but to the cemetery of rocklington amid the potato field. for hour the gray man would sit on a tombstone while black sheep read epitaph and then with a sigh would stump home again. 
i shall lie there soon say he to black sheep. one winter even when his face show white a a wear silver coin under the light of the chapel lodge. you need n t tell aunty rosa. 
a month late he turn sharp round ere half a morning walk be complete and stump back to the house. put me to bed rosa he mutter. i ve walk my last. the wad ha find me out. 
they put him to bed and for a fortnight the shadow of his sickness lay upon the house and black sheep go to and fro unobserved. papa have send him some new book and he be tell to keep quiet. he retire into his own world and be perfectly happy. even at night his felicity be unbroken. he could lie in bed and string himself tale of travel and adventure while harry be downstairs. 
uncle harry s go to die say judy who now live almost entirely with aunty rosa. 
i m very sorry say black sheep soberly. he tell me that a long time ago. 
aunty rosa hear the conversation. will nothing check your wicked tongue. she say angrily. there be blue circle round her eye. 
black sheep retreat to the nursery and read cometh up a a flower with deep and uncomprehending interest. he have be forbid to read it on account of it sinfulness but the bond of the universe be crumble and aunty rosa be in great grief. 
i m glad say black sheep. she s unhappy now. it be n t a lie though. i know. he tell me not to tell. 
that night black sheep wake with a start. harry be not in the room and there be a sound of sob on the next floor. then the voice of uncle harry sing the song of the battle of navarino cut through the darkness. 
our vanship be the asia the albion and genoa. 
he s get well think black sheep who know the song through all it seventeen verse. but the blood freeze at his little heart a he think. the voice leap an octave and ring shrill a a boatswain s pipe. 
and next come on the lovely rise the philomel her fire ship close and the little brisk be sore expose that day at navarino. 
that day at navarino uncle harry. shout black sheep half wild with excitement and fear of he know not what. 
a door open and aunty rosa scream up the staircase. hush. for god s sake hush you little devil. uncle harry be dead. 
the third bag. 
journey end in lover meet every wise man s son doth know. 
i wonder what will happen to me now think black sheep when the semi pagan rite peculiar to the burial of the dead in middle class house have be accomplish and aunty rosa awful in black crape have return to this life. i don t think i ve do anything bad that she know of. i suppose i will soon. she will be very cross after uncle harry s die and harry will be cross too. i ll keep in the nursery. 
unfortunately for punch s plan it be decide that he should be send to a day school which harry attend. this mean a morning walk with harry and perhaps an even one. but the prospect of freedom in the interval be refresh. harry ll tell everything i do but i win t do anything say black sheep. fortify with this virtuous resolution he go to school only to find that harry s version of his character have precede him and that life be a burden in consequence. he take stock of his associate. some of them be unclean some of them talk in dialect many drop their h s and there be two jew and a negro or someone quite a dark in the assembly. that s a hubshi say black sheep to himself. even meeta use to laugh at a hubshi. i don t think this be a proper place. he be indignant for at least an hour till he reflect that any expostulation on his part would be by aunty rosa construe into show off and that harry would tell the boy. 
how do you like school. say aunty rosa at the end of the day. 
i think it be a very nice place say punch quietly. 
i suppose you warn the boy of black sheep s character. say aunty rosa to harry. 
oh yes. say the censor of black sheep s moral. they know all about him. 
if i be with my father say black sheep sting to the quick i should n t speak to those boy. he would n t let me. they live in shop. i saw them go into shop where their father live and sell thing. 
you re too good for that school be you. say aunty rosa with a bitter smile. you ought to be grateful black sheep that those boy speak to you at all. it be n t every school that take little liar. 
harry do not fail to make much capital out of black sheep s ill consider remark. with the result that several boy include the hubshi demonstrate to black sheep the eternal equality of the human race by smack his head and his consolation from aunty rosa be that it serve him right for be vain. he learn however to keep his opinion to himself and by propitiate harry in carry book and the like to secure a little peace. his existence be not too joyful. from nine till twelve he be at school and from two to four except on saturday. in the evening he be send down into the nursery to prepare his lesson for the next day and every night come the dread cross questioning at harry s hand. of judy he saw but little. she be deeply religious at six year of age religion be easy to come by and sorely divide between her natural love for black sheep and her love for aunty rosa who could do no wrong. 
the lean woman return that love with interest and judy when she dare take advantage of this for the remission of black sheep s penalty. failure in lesson at school be furnish at home by a week without read other than schoolbook and harry bring the news of such a failure with glee. further black sheep be then bind to repeat his lesson at bedtime to harry who generally succeed in make him break down and console him by gloomy foreboding for the morrow. harry be at once spy practical joker inquisitor and aunty rosa s deputy executioner. he fill his many post to admiration. from his action now that uncle harry be dead there be no appeal. black sheep have not be permit to keep any self respect at school. at home he be of course utterly discredit and grateful for any pity that the servant girl they change frequently at downe lodge because they too be liar might show. you re just fit to row in the same boat with black sheep be a sentiment that each new jane or eliza might expect to hear before a month be over from aunty rosa s lip. and black sheep be use to ask new girl whether they have yet be compare to him. harry be master harry in their mouth. judy be officially miss judy. but black sheep be never anything more than black sheep tout court. 
a time go on and the memory of papa and mamma become wholly overlay by the unpleasant task of write them letter under aunty rosa s eye each sunday black sheep forget what manner of life he have lead in the begin of thing. even judy s appeal to try and remember about bombay fail to quicken him. 
i can t remember he say. i know i use to give order and mamma kiss me. 
aunty rosa will kiss you if you be good plead judy. 
ugh. i don t want to be kiss by aunty rosa. she d say i be do it to get something more to eat. 
the week lengthen into month and the holiday come. but just before the holiday black sheep fell into deadly sin. 
among the many boy whom harry have incite to punch black sheep s head because he dare n t hit back be one more aggravate than the rest who in an unlucky moment fell upon black sheep when harry be not near. the blow sting and black sheep strike back at random with all the power at his command. the boy drop and whimper. black sheep be astound at his own act but feel the unresisting body under him shake it with both his hand in blind fury and then begin to throttle his enemy. mean honestly to slay him. there be a scuffle and black sheep be tear off the body by harry and some colleague and cuff home tingle but exultant. aunty rosa be out. pending her arrival harry set himself to lecture black sheep on the sin of murder which he describe a the offence of cain. 
why do n t you fight him fair. what do you hit him when he be down for you little cur. 
black sheep look up at harry s throat and then at a knife on the dinner table. 
i don t understand he say wearily. you always set him on me and tell me i be a coward when i blub. will you leave me alone until aunty rosa come in. she ll beat me if you tell her i ought to be beat. so it s all right. 
it s all wrong say harry magisterially. you nearly kill him and i should n t wonder if he dy. 
will he die. say black sheep. 
i daresay say harry and then you ll be hang. 
all right say black sheep possess himself of the table knife. then i ll kill you now. you say thing and do thing and and i don t know how thing happen and you never leave me alone and i don t care what happen. 
he run at the boy with the knife and harry flee upstairs to his room promise black sheep the fine thrash in the world when aunty rosa return. black sheep sit at the bottom of the stair the table knife in his hand and weep for that he have not kill harry. the servant girl come up from the kitchen take the knife away and console him. but black sheep be beyond consolation. he would be badly beat by aunty rosa. then there would be another beat at harry s hand. then judy would not be allow to speak to him. then the tale would be tell at school and then. 
there be no one to help and no one to care and the best way out of the business be by death. a knife would hurt but aunty rosa have tell him a year ago that if he suck paint he would die. he go into the nursery unearth the now disused noah s ark and suck the paint off a many animal a remain. it taste abominable but he have lick noah s dive clean by the time aunty rosa and judy return. he go upstairs and greet them with. please aunty rosa i believe i ve nearly kill a boy at school and i ve try to kill harry and when you ve do all about god and hell will you beat me and get it over. 
the tale of the assault a tell by harry could only be explain on the grind of possession by the devil. wherefore black sheep be not only most excellently beat once by aunty rosa and once when thoroughly cow down by harry but he be further pray for at family prayer together with jane who have steal a cold rissole from the pantry and snuffle audibly a her enormity be bring before the throne of grace. black sheep be sore and stiff but triumphant. he would die that very night and be rid of them all. no he would ask for no forgiveness from harry and at bedtime would stand no question at harry s hand even though address a young cain. 
i ve be beat say he and i ve do other thing. i don t care what i do. if you speak to me to night harry i ll get out and try to kill you. now you can kill me if you like. 
harry take his bed into the spare room and black sheep lay down to die. 
it may be that the maker of noah s ark know that their animal be likely to find their way into young mouth and paint them accordingly. certain it be that the common weary next morning break through the window and find black sheep quite well and a good deal ashamed of himself but rich by the knowledge that he could in extremity secure himself against harry for the future. 
when he descend to breakfast on the first day of the holiday he be greet with the news that harry aunty rosa and judy be go away to brighton while black sheep be to stay in the house with the servant. his late outbreak suit aunty rosa s plan admirably. it give her good excuse for leave the extra boy behind. papa in bombay who really seem to know a young sinner s want to the hour send that week a package of new book. and with these and the society of jane on board wage black sheep be leave alone for a month. 
the book last for ten day. they be eat too quickly in long gulp of four and twenty hour at a time. then come day of do absolutely nothing of dream dream and march imaginary army up and down stair of count the number of banister and of measure the length and breadth of every room in handspans fifty down the side thirty across and fifty back again. jane make many friend and after receive black sheep s assurance that he would not tell of her absence go out daily for long hour. black sheep would follow the ray of the sink sun from the kitchen to the din room and thence upward to his own bedroom until all be gray dark and he run down to the kitchen fire and read by it light. he be happy in that he be leave alone and could read a much a he please. but late he grow afraid of the shadow of window curtain and the flap of door and the creak of shutter. he go out into the garden and the rustle of the laurel bush frighten him. 
he be glad when they all return aunty rosa harry and judy full of news and judy lade with gift. who could help love loyal little judy. in return for all her merry babblement black sheep confide to her that the distance from the hall door to the top of the first land be exactly one hundred and eighty four handspans. he have find it out himself. 
then the old life recommence. but with a difference and a new sin. to his other iniquity black sheep have now add a phenomenal clumsiness be a unfit to trust in action a he be in word. he himself could not account for spill everything he touch upset glass a he put his hand out and bump his head against door that be manifestly shut. there be a gray haze upon all his world and it narrow month by month until at last it leave black sheep almost alone with the flap curtain that be so like ghost and the nameless terror of broad daylight that be only coat on peg after all. 
holiday come and holiday go and black sheep be take to see many people whose face be all exactly alike. be beat when occasion demand and torture by harry on all possible occasion. but defend by judy through good and evil report though she hereby draw upon herself the wrath of aunty rosa. 
the week be interminable and papa and mamma be clean forget. harry have leave school and be a clerk in a bank office. free from his presence black sheep resolve that he should no long be deprive of his allowance of pleasure read. consequently when he fail at school he report that all be well and conceive a large contempt for aunty rosa a he saw how easy it be to deceive her. she say i m a little liar when i don t tell lie and now i do she doe n t know think black sheep. aunty rosa have credit him in the past with petty cunning and stratagem that have never enter into his head. by the light of the sordid knowledge that she have reveal to him he pay her back full tale. in a household where the most innocent of his motif his natural yearn for a little affection have be interpret into a desire for more bread and jam or to ingratiate himself with stranger and so put harry into the background his work be easy. aunty rosa could penetrate certain kind of hypocrisy but not all. he set his child s wit against hers and be no more beat. it grow monthly more and more of a trouble to read the schoolbook and even the page of the open print story book dance and be dim. so black sheep brood in the shadow that fell about him and cut him off from the world invent horrible punishment for dear harry or plot another line of the tangle web of deception that he wrap round aunty rosa. 
then the crash come and the cobweb be break. it be impossible to foresee everything. aunty rosa make personal inquiry a to black sheep s progress and receive information that startle her. step by step with a delight a keen a when she convict an underfed housemaid of the theft of cold meat she follow the trail of black sheep s delinquency. for week and week in order to escape banishment from the book shelf he have make a fool of aunty rosa of harry of god of all the world. horrible most horrible and evidence of an utterly deprave mind. 
black sheep count the cost. it will only be one big beat and then she ll put a card with liar on my back same a she do before. harry will whack me and pray for me and she will pray for me at prayer and tell me i m a child of the devil and give me hymn to learn. but i ve do all my read and she never know. she ll say she know all along. she s an old liar too say he. 
for three day black sheep be shut in his own bedroom to prepare his heart. that mean two beating. one at school and one here. that one will hurt most. and it fell even a he think. he be thrash at school before the jew and the hubshi for the heinous crime of bring home false report of progress. he be thrash at home by aunty rosa on the same count and then the placard be produce. aunty rosa stitch it between his shoulder and bid him go for a walk with it upon him. 
if you make me do that say black sheep very quietly i shall burn this house down and perhaps i ll kill you. i don t know whether i can kill you you re so bony but i ll try. 
no punishment follow this blasphemy though black sheep hold himself ready to work his way to aunty rosa s wither throat and grip there till he be beat off. perhaps aunty rosa be afraid for black sheep have reach the nadir of sin bore himself with a new recklessness. 
in the midst of all the trouble there come a visitor from over the sea to downe lodge who know papa and mamma and be commission to see punch and judy. black sheep be send to the draw room and charge into a solid tea table lade with china. 
gently gently little man say the visitor turn black sheep s face to the light slowly. what s that big bird on the paling. 
what bird. ask black sheep. 
the visitor look deep down into black sheep s eye for a half a minute and then say suddenly. good god the little chap s nearly blind. 
it be a most business like visitor. he give order on his own responsibility that black sheep be not to go to school or open a book until mamma come home. she ll be here in three week a you know of course say he and i m inverarity sahib. i usher you into this wicked world young man and a nice use you seem to have make of your time. you must do nothing whatever. can you do that. 
yes say punch in a daze way. he have know that mamma be come. there be a chance then of another beat. thank heaven papa be n t come too. aunty rosa have say of late that he ought to be beat by a man. 
for the next three week black sheep be strictly allow to do nothing. he spend his time in the old nursery look at the break toy for all of which account must be render to mamma. aunty rosa hit him over the hand if even a wooden boat be break. but that sin be of small importance compare to the other revelation so darkly hint at by aunty rosa. when your mother come and hear what i have to tell her she may appreciate you properly she say grimly and mount guard over judy l that small maiden should attempt to comfort her brother to the peril of her own soul. 
and mamma come in a four wheeler and a flutter of tender excitement. such a mamma. she be young frivolously young and beautiful with delicately flush cheek eye that shine like star and a voice that need no additional appeal of outstretched arm to draw little one to her heart. judy run straight to her but black sheep hesitate. could this wonder be show off. she would not put out her arm when she know of his crime. meantime be it possible that by fondle she want to get anything out of black sheep. only all his love and all his confidence. but that black sheep do not know. aunty rosa withdraw and leave mamma kneel between her child half laugh half cry in the very hall where punch and judy have weep five year before. 
well chick do you remember me. 
no say judy frankly but i say god bless papa and mamma ev vy night. 
a little say black sheep. remember i write to you every week anyhow. that be n t to show off but cause of what come afterward. 
what come after. what should come after my darling boy. and she draw him to her again. he come awkwardly with many angle. not use to pet say the quick mother soul. the girl be. 
she s too little to hurt anyone think black sheep and if i say i d kill her she d be afraid. i wonder what aunty rosa will tell. 
there be a constrain late dinner at the end of which mamma pick up judy and put her to bed with endearment manifold. faithless little judy have show her defection from aunty rosa already. and that lady resent it bitterly. black sheep rise to leave the room. 
come and say good night say aunty rosa offer a wither cheek. 
huh. say black sheep. i never kiss you and i m not go to show off. tell that woman what i ve do and see what she say. 
black sheep climb into bed feel that he have lose heaven after a glimpse through the gate. in half an hour that woman be bend over him. black sheep fling up his right arm. it be n t fair to come and hit him in the dark. even aunty rosa never try that. but no blow follow. 
be you show off. i win t tell you anything more than aunty rosa ha and she doe n t know everything say black sheep a clearly a he could for the arm round his neck. 
oh my son my little little son. it be my fault my fault darling and yet how could we help it. forgive me punch. the voice die out in a break whisper and two hot tear fell on black sheep s forehead. 
ha she be make you cry too. he ask. you should see jane cry. but you re nice and jane be a bear liar aunty rosa say so. 
hush punch hush. my boy don t talk like that. try to love me a little bite a little bite. you don t know how i want it. punch baba come back to me. i be your mother your own mother and never mind the rest. i know yes i know dear. it doe n t matter now. punch win t you care for me a little. 
it be astonish how much pet a big boy of ten can endure when he be quite sure that there be no one to laugh at him. black sheep have never be make much of before and here be this beautiful woman treat him black sheep the child of the devil and the inheritor of undying flame a though he be a small god. 
i care for you a great deal mother dear he whisper at last and i m glad you ve come back. but be you sure aunty rosa tell you everything. 
everything. what doe it matter. but the voice break with a sob that be also laughter punch my poor dear half blind darling don t you think it be a little foolish of you. 
no. it save a lickin. 
mamma shudder and slip away in the darkness to write a long letter to papa. here be an extract. 
judy be a dear plump little prig who adore the woman and wear with a much gravity a her religious opinion only eight jack. a venerable horsehair atrocity which she call her bustle. i have just burn it and the child be asleep in my bed a i write. she will come to me at once. punch i cannot quite understand. he be well nourish but seem to have be worry into a system of small deception which the woman magnify into deadly sin. don t you recollect our own up bring dear when the fear of the lord be so often the begin of falsehood. i shall win punch to me before long. i be take the child away into the country to get them to know me and on the whole i be content or shall be when you come home dear boy and then thank god we shall be all under one roof again at last. 
* * * * *. 
three month late punch no long black sheep ha discover that he be the veritable owner of a real live lovely mamma who be also a sister comforter and friend and that he must protect her till the father come home. deception doe not suit the part of a protector and when one can do anything without question where be the use of deception. 
mother would be awfully cross if you walk through that ditch say judy continue a conversation. 
mother s never angry say punch. she d just say you re a little pagal. and that s not nice but i ll show. 
punch walk through the ditch and mire himself to the knee. mother dear he shout i m just a dirty a i can po sib ly be. 
then change your clothe a quickly a you po sib ly can. ring out mother s clear voice from the house. and don t be a little pagal. 
there. tell you so say punch. it s all different now and we be just a much mother s a if she have never go. 
not altogether o punch for when young lip have drink deep of the bitter water of hate suspicion and despair all the love in the world will not wholly take away that knowledge. though it may turn darken eye for a while to the light and teach faith where no faith be. 
v. 
wee willie winkie. 
an officer and a gentleman. 
his full name be percival william williams but he pick up the other name in a nursery book and that be the end of the christen title. his mother s ayah call him willie baba but a he never pay the faint attention to anything that the ayah say her wisdom do not help matter. 
his father be the colonel of the th and a soon a wee willie winkie be old enough to understand what military discipline mean colonel williams put him under it. there be no other way of manage the child. when he be good for a week he draw good conduct pay. and when he be bad he be deprive of his good conduct stripe. generally he be bad for india offer so many chance to little six year old of go wrong. 
child resent familiarity from stranger and wee willie winkie be a very particular child. once he accept an acquaintance he be graciously please to thaw. he accept brandis a subaltern of the th on sight. brandis be have tea at the colonel s and wee willie winkie enter strong in the possession of a good conduct badge win for not chase the hen round the compound. he regard brandis with gravity for at least ten minute and then deliver himself of his opinion. 
i like you say he slowly get off his chair and come over to brandis. i like you. i shall call you coppy because of your hair. do you mind be call coppy. it be because of ve hair you know. 
here be one of the most embarrass of wee willie winkie s peculiarity. he would look at a strange for some time and then without warn or explanation would give him a name. and the name stick. no regimental penalty could break wee willie winkie of this habit. he lose his good conduct badge for christen the commissioner s wife pob. but nothing that the colonel could do make the station forego the nickname and mr. collen remain mr. pob till the end of her stay. so brandis be christen coppy and rise therefore in the estimation of the regiment. 
if wee willie winkie take an interest in anyone the fortunate man be envy alike by the mess and the rank and file. and in their envy lay no suspicion of self interest. the colonel s son be idolize on his own merit entirely. yet wee willie winkie be not lovely. his face be permanently freckle a his leg be permanently scratch and in spite of his mother s almost tearful remonstrance he have insist upon have his long yellow lock cut short in the military fashion. i want my hair like sergeant tummil s say wee willie winkie and his father abet the sacrifice be accomplish. 
three week after the bestowal of his youthful affection on lieutenant brandis henceforward to be call coppy for the sake of brevity wee willie winkie be destine to behold strange thing and far beyond his comprehension. 
coppy return his like with interest. coppy have let him wear for five rapturous minute his own big sword just a tall a wee willie winkie. coppy have promise him a terrier puppy. and coppy have permit him to witness the miraculous operation of shave. nay more coppy have say that even he wee willie winkie would rise in time to the ownership of a box of shiny knife a silver soap box and a silver handle sputter brush a wee willie winkie call it. decidedly there be no one except his father who could give or take away good conduct badge at pleasure half so wise strong and valiant a coppy with the afghan and egyptian medal on his breast. why then should coppy be guilty of the unmanly weakness of kiss vehemently kiss a big girl miss allardyce to wit. in the course of a morning ride wee willie winkie have see coppy so do and like the gentleman he be have promptly wheel round and canter back to his groom l the groom should also see. 
under ordinary circumstance he would have speak to his father but he felt instinctively that this be a matter on which coppy ought first to be consult. 
coppy shout wee willie winkie rein up outside that subaltern s bungalow early one morning i want to see you coppy. 
come in young un return coppy who be at early breakfast in the midst of his dog. what mischief have you be get into now. 
wee willie winkie have do nothing notoriously bad for three day and so stand on a pinnacle of virtue. 
i ve be do nothing bad say he curl himself into a long chair with a studious affectation of the colonel s langour after a hot parade. he bury his freckle nose in a tea cup and with eye star roundly over the rim ask. i say coppy be it pwoper to kiss big girl. 
by jove. you re begin early. who do you want to kiss. 
no one. my muvver s always kiss me if i don t stop her. if it be n t pwoper how be you kiss major allardyce s big girl last morning by ve canal. 
coppy s brow wrinkle. he and miss allardyce have with great craft manage to keep their engagement secret for a fortnight. there be urgent and imperative reason why major allardyce should not know how matter stand for at least another month and this small marplot have discover a great deal too much. 
i saw you say wee willie winkle calmly. but ve groom do n t see. i say hut jao. 
oh you have that much sense you young rip groan poor coppy half amuse and half angry. and how many people may you have tell about it. 
only me myself. you do n t tell when i twied to wide ve buffalo ven my pony be lame. and i fight you would n t like. 
winkie say coppy enthusiastically shake the small hand you re the best of good fellow. look here you can t understand all these thing. one of these day hang it how can i make you see it. i m go to marry miss allardyce and then she ll be mr. coppy a you say. if your young mind be so scandalize at the idea of kiss big girl go and tell your father. 
what will happen. say wee willie winkie who firmly believe that his father be omnipotent. 
i shall get into trouble say coppy play his trump card with an appeal look at the holder of the ace. 
ven i win t say wee willie winkie briefly. but my faver say it s un man ly to be always kiss and i do n t fink you d do vat coppy. 
i m not always kiss old chap. it s only now and then and when you re big you ll do it too. your father mean it s not good for little boy. 
ah. say wee willie winkle now fully enlighten. it s like ve sputter brush. 
exactly say coppy gravely. 
but i don t fink i ll ever want to kiss big girl nor no one cept my muvver. and i must vat you know. 
there be a long pause break by wee willie winkie. 
be you fond of vi big girl coppy. 
awfully. say coppy. 
fond van you be of bell or ve butcha or me. 
it s in a different way say coppy. you see one of these day miss allardyce will belong to me but you ll grow up and command the regiment and all sort of thing. it s quite different you see. 
very well say wee willie winkie rise. if you re fond of ve big girl i win t tell anyone. i must go now. 
coppy rise and escort his small guest to the door add. you re the best of little fellow winkie. i tell you what. in thirty day from now you can tell if you like tell anyone you like. 
thus the secret of the brandis allardyce engagement be dependent on a little child s word. coppy who know wee willie winkie s idea of truth be at ease for he felt that he would not break promise. wee willie winkie betray a special and unusual interest in miss allardyce and slowly revolve round that embarrass young lady be use to regard her gravely with unwinking eye. he be try to discover why coppy should have kiss her. she be not half so nice a his own mother. on the other hand she be coppy s property and would in time belong to him. therefore it behoove him to treat her with a much respect a coppy s big sword or shiny pistol. 
the idea that he share a great secret in common with coppy keep wee willie winkie unusually virtuous for three week. then the old adam break out and he make what he call a camp fire at the bottom of the garden. how could he have foresee that the fly spark would have light the colonel s little hay rick and consume a week s store for the horse. sudden and swift be the punishment deprivation of the good conduct badge and most sorrowful of all two day confinement to barrack the house and veranda couple with the withdrawal of the light of his father s countenance. 
he take the sentence like the man he strive to be draw himself up with a quiver under lip salute and once clear of the room run to weep bitterly in his nursery call by him my quarter. coppy come in the afternoon and attempt to console the culprit. 
i m under awwest say wee willie winkie mournfully and i do n t ought to speak to you. 
very early the next morning he climb on to the roof of the house that be not forbid and behold miss allardyce go for a ride. 
where be you go. cry wee willie winkie. 
across the river she answer and trot forward. 
now the cantonment in which the th lay be bound on the north by a river dry in the winter. from his early year wee willie winkie have be forbid to go across the river and have note that even coppy the almost almighty coppy have never set foot beyond it. wee willie winkie have once be read to out of a big blue book the history of the princess and the goblin a most wonderful tale of a land where the goblin be always war with the child of men until they be defeat by one curdie. ever since that date it seem to him that the bare black and purple hill across the river be inhabit by goblin and in truth everyone have say that there live the bad men. even in his own house the low half of the window be cover with green paper on account of the bad men who might if allow clear view fire into peaceful draw room and comfortable bedroom. certainly beyond the river which be the end of all the earth live the bad men. and here be major allardyce s big girl coppy s property prepare to venture into their border. what would coppy say if anything happen to her. if the goblin run off with her a they do with curdie s princess. she must at all hazard be turn back. 
the house be still. wee willie winkie reflect for a moment on the very terrible wrath of his father. and then break his arrest. it be a crime unspeakable. the low sun throw his shadow very large and very black on the trim garden path a he go down to the stable and order his pony. it seem to him in the hush of the dawn that all the big world have be bid to stand still and look at wee willie winkie guilty of mutiny. the drowsy groom hand him his mount and since the one great sin make all others insignificant wee willie winkie say that he be go to ride over to coppy sahib and go out at a foot pace step on the soft mould of the flower border. 
the devastate track of the pony s foot be the last misdeed that cut him off from all sympathy of humanity. he turn into the road lean forward and ride a fast a the pony could put foot to the grind in the direction of the river. 
but the lively of twelve two pony can do little against the long canter of a waler. miss allardyce be far ahead have pass through the crop beyond the police post when all the guard be asleep and her mount be scatter the pebble of the river bed a wee willie winkie leave the cantonment and british india behind him. bow forward and still flog wee willie winkie shoot into afghan territory and could just see miss allardyce a black speck flicker across the stony plain. the reason of her wander be simple enough. coppy in a tone of too hastily assume authority have tell her over night that she must not ride out by the river. and she have go to prove her own spirit and teach coppy a lesson. 
almost at the foot of the inhospitable hill wee willie winkie saw the waler blunder and come down heavily. miss allardyce struggle clear but her ankle have be severely twist and she could not stand. have thus demonstrate her spirit she weep copiously and be surprise by the apparition of a white wide eye child in khaki on a nearly spend pony. 
be you badly badly hurt. shout wee willie winkie a soon a he be within range. you do n t ought to be here. 
i don t know say miss allardyce ruefully ignore the reproof. good gracious child what be you do here. 
you say you be go acwoss ve wiver pant wee willie winkie throw himself off his pony. and nobody not even coppy must go acwoss ve wiver and i come after you ever so hard but you would n t stop and now you ve hurt yourself and coppy will be angry wiv me and i ve bwoken my awwest. i ve bwoken my awwest. 
the future colonel of the th sit down and sob. in spite of the pain in her ankle the girl be move. 
have you ride all the way from cantonment little man. what for. 
you belong to coppy. coppy tell me so. wail wee willie winkie disconsolately. i saw him kiss you and he say he be fond of you van bell or ve butcha or me. and so i come. you must get up and come back. you do n t ought to be here. vi be a bad place and i ve bwoken my awwest. 
i can t move winkie say miss allardyce with a groan. i ve hurt my foot. what shall i do. 
she show a readiness to weep afresh which steady wee willie winkie who have be bring up to believe that tear be the depth of unmanliness. still when one be a great a sinner a wee willie winkie even a man may be permit to break down. 
winkie say miss allardyce when you ve rest a little ride back and tell them to send out something to carry me back in. it hurt fearfully. 
the child sit still for a little time and miss allardyce close her eye. the pain be nearly make her faint. she be rouse by wee willie winkie tie up the rein on his pony s neck and set it free with a vicious cut of his whip that make it whicker. the little animal head toward the cantonment. 
oh winkie. what be you do. 
hush. say wee willie winkie. vere s a man come one of ve bad men. i must stay wiv you. my faver say a man must always look after a girl. jack will go home and ven vey ll come and look for u. vat s why i let him go. 
not one man but two or three have appear from behind the rock of the hill and the heart of wee willie winkie sink within him for just in this manner be the goblin wont to steal out and vex curdie s soul. thus have they play in curdie s garden he have see the picture and thus have they frighten the princess s nurse. he hear them talk to each other and recognize with joy the bastard pushto that he have pick up from one of his father s groom lately dismiss. people who speak that tongue could not be the bad men. they be only native after all. 
they come up to the boulder on which miss allardyce s horse have blunder. 
then rise from the rock wee willie winkie child of the dominant race age six and three quarter and say briefly and emphatically jao. the pony have cross the river bed. 
the men laugh and laughter from native be the one thing wee willie winkie could not tolerate. he ask them what they want and why they do not depart. other men with most evil face and crook stock gun creep out of the shadow of the hill till soon wee willie winkie be face to face with an audience some twenty strong. miss allardyce scream. 
who be you. say one of the men. 
i be the colonel sahib s son and my order be that you go at once. you black men be frighten the miss sahib. one of you must run into cantonment and take the news that the miss sahib ha hurt herself and that the colonel s son be here with her. 
put our foot into the trap. be the laugh reply. hear this boy s speech. 
say that i send you i the colonel s son. they will give you money. 
what be the use of this talk. take up the child and the girl and we can at least ask for the ransom. ours be the village on the height say a voice in the background. 
these be the bad men bad than goblin and it need all wee willie winkie s train to prevent him from burst into tear. but he felt that to cry before a native except only his mother s ayah would be an infamy great than any mutiny. moreover he a future colonel of the th have that grim regiment at his back. 
be you go to carry u away. say wee willie winkie very blanch and uncomfortable. 
yes my little sahib bahadur say the tall of the men and eat you afterward. 
that be child s talk say wee willie winkie. men do not eat men. 
a yell of laughter interrupt him but he go on firmly and if you do carry u away i tell you that all my regiment will come up in a day and kill you all without leave one. who will take my message to the colonel sahib. 
speech in any vernacular and wee willie winkie have a colloquial acquaintance with three be easy to the boy who could not yet manage his r s and th s aright. 
another man join the conference cry. oh foolish men. what this babe say be true. he be the heart s heart of those white troop. for the sake of peace let them go both for if he be take the regiment will break loose and gut the valley. our village be in the valley and we shall not escape. that regiment be devil. they break khoda yar s breast bone with kick when he try to take the rifle. and if we touch this child they will fire and rape and plunder for a month till nothing remain. good to send a man back to take the message and get a reward. i say that this child be their god and that they will spare none of u nor our woman if we harm him. 
it be din mahommed the dismiss groom of the colonel who make the diversion and an angry and heat discussion follow. wee willie winkie stand over miss allardyce wait the upshot. surely his wegiment his own wegiment would not desert him if they know of his extremity. 
* * * * *. 
the riderless pony bring the news to the th though there have be consternation in the colonel s household for an hour before. the little beast come in through the parade grind in front of the main barrack where the men be settle down to play spoil five till the afternoon. devlin the colour sergeant of e company glance at the empty saddle and tumble through the barrack room kick up each room corporal a he pass. up ye beggar. there s something happen to the colonel s son he shout. 
he could n t fall off. s elp me e could n t fall off blubber a drummer boy. go an hunt acrost the river. he s over there if he s anywhere an maybe those pathan have get im. for the love o gawd don t look for im in the nullah. let s go over the river. 
there s sense in mott yet say devlin. e company double out to the river sharp. 
so e company in it shirt sleeve mainly double for the dear life and in the rear toil the perspire sergeant adjure it to double yet fast. the cantonment be alive with the men of the th hunt for wee willie winkie and the colonel finally overtake e company far too exhaust to swear struggle in the pebble of the river bed. 
up the hill under which wee willie winkie s bad men be discuss the wisdom of carry off the child and the girl a lookout fire two shot. 
what have i say. shout din mahommed. there be the warn. the pulton be out already and be come across the plain. get away. let u not be see with the boy. 
the men wait for an instant and then a another shoot be fire withdraw into the hill silently a they have appear. 
the wegiment be come say wee willie winkie confidently to miss allardyce and it s all wight. don t cwy. 
he need the advice himself for ten minute late when his father come up he be weep bitterly with his head in miss allardyce s lap. 
and the men of the th carry him home with shout and rejoicing. and coppy who have ride a horse into a lather meet him and to his intense disgust kiss him openly in the presence of the men. 
but there be balm for his dignity. his father assure him that not only would the break of arrest be condone but that the good conduct badge would be restore a soon a his mother could sew it on his blouse sleeve. miss allardyce have tell the colonel a story that make him proud of his son. 
she belong to you coppy say wee willie winkie indicate miss allardyce with a grimy forefinger. i know she do n t ought to go acwoss ve wiver and i know ve wegiment would come to me if i send jack home. 
you re a hero winkie say coppy a pukka hero. 
i don t know what vat mean say wee willie winkie but you must n t call me winkie any no more. i m percival will be will am. 
and in this manner do wee willie winkie enter into his manhood. 
vi. 
the dive of dacca. 
the free dive fly to the rajah s tower flee from the slaughter of moslem king and the thorn have cover the city of gaur. dive dive oh home dive. little white traitor with woe on thy wing. 
the rajah of dacca ride under the wall. he set in his bosom a dive of flight if she return be sure that i fall. dive dive oh home dive. press to his heart in the thick of the fight. 
fire the palace the fort and the keep leave to the foeman no spoil at all. in the flame of the palace lie down and sleep if the dive if the dive if the home dive come and alone to the palace wall. 
the king of the north they be scatter abroad the rajah of dacca he slew them all. hot from slaughter he stoop at the ford and the dive the dive oh the home dive. she think of her cote on the palace wall. 
she open her wing and she fly away flutter away beyond recall. she come to the palace at break of day. dive dive oh home dive. fly so fast for a kingdom s fall. 
the queen of dacca they sleep in flame sleep in the flame of the palace old to save their honour from moslem shame. and the dive the dive oh the home dive. she coo to her young where the smoke cloud roll. 
the rajah of dacca ride far and fleet follow a fast a a horse could fly he come and the palace be black at his foot. and the dive the dive the home dive circle alone in the stainless sky. 
so the dive fly to the rajah s tower flee from the slaughter of moslem king. so the thorn cover the city of gaur and dacca be lose for a white dive s wing. dive dive oh home dive dacca be lose from the roll of the king. 
vii. 
the smoke upon your altar dy. 
to whom it may concern. 
the smoke upon your altar dy the flower decay the goddess of your sacrifice ha fly away. what profit then to sing or slay the sacrifice from day to day. 
we know the shrine be void they say the goddess fly yet wreath be on the altar lay the altar stone be black with fume of sacrifice albeit she ha flee our eye. 
for it may be if still we sing and tend the shrine some deity on wander wing may there incline. and find all in order meet stay while we worship at her foot. 
viii. 
recessional. 
the recessional be one of the most popular poem of this century. it be a warn to age and a nation drink with power a rebuke to materialistic tendency and boastfulness a protest against pride. 
reverence be the master key of knowledge. 
god of our father know of old lord of our far fling battle line beneath whose awful hand we hold dominion over palm and pine lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
the tumult and the shout dy the captain and the king depart still stand thine ancient sacrifice an humble and a contrite heart. lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
far call our navy melt away on dune and headland sink the fire lo all our pomp of yesterday be one with nineveh and tyre. judge of the nation spare u yet l we forget l we forget. 
if drink with sight of power we loose wild tongue that have not thee in awe such boast a the gentile use or less breed without the law lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
for heathen heart that put her trust in reek tube and iron shard all valiant dust that build on dust and guard call not thee to guard for frantic boast and foolish word thy mercy on thy people lord. amen. 
ix. 
l envoi. 
when earth s last picture be paint and the tube be twist and dry when the old colour have fade and the young critic ha die we shall rest and faith we shall need it lie down for an æon or two till the master of all good workman shall set u to work anew. 
and those who be good shall be happy. they shall sit in a golden chair. they shall splash at a ten league canvas with brush of comet s hair. they shall find real saint to draw from magdalene peter and paul. they shall work for an age at a sit and never be tire at all. 
and only the master shall praise u and only the master shall blame. and no one shall work for money and no one shall work for fame. but each for the joy of the work and each in his separate star shall draw the thing a he see it for the god of thing a they be. 
i. 
the sing song of old man kangaroo. 
not always be the kangaroo a now we do behold him but a different animal with four short leg. he be gray and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on an outcrop in the middle of australia and he go to the little god nqa at six before breakfast say make me different from all other animal by five this afternoon. 
up jump nqa from his seat on the sandflat and shout go away. 
he be gray and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on a rockledge in the middle of australia and he go to the middle god nquing. 
he go to nquing at eight after breakfast say make me different from all other animal. make me also wonderfully popular by five this afternoon. 
up jump nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shout go away. 
he be gray and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on a sandbank in the middle of australia and he go to the big god nqong. 
he go to nqong at ten before dinner time say make me different from all other animal. make me popular and wonderfully run after by five this afternoon. 
up jump nqong from his bath in the salt pan and shout yes i will. 
nqong call dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry dusty in the sunshine and show him kangaroo. nqong say dingo. wake up dingo. do you see that gentleman dance on an ash pit. he want to be popular and very truly run after. dingo make him so. 
up jump dingo yellow dog dingo and say what that cat rabbit. 
off run dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry grin like a coal scuttle run after kangaroo. 
off go the proud kangaroo on his four little leg like a bunny. 
this o beloved of mine end the first part of the tale. 
he run through the desert. he run through the mountain. he run through the salt pan. he run through the reed bed. he run through the blue gum. he run through the spinifex. he run till his front leg ache. 
he have to. 
[illustration. this be a picture of old man kangaroo when he be the different animal with four short leg. i have draw him gray and woolly and you can see that he be very proud because he ha a wreath of flower in his hair. he be dance on an outcrop. that mean a ledge of rock. in the middle of australia at six o clock before breakfast. you can see that it be six o clock because the sun be just get up. the thing with the ear and the open mouth be little god nqa. nqa be very much surprise because he ha never see a kangaroo dance like that before. little god nqa be just say go away but the kangaroo be so busy dance that he ha not hear him yet. 
the kangaroo ha n t any real name except boomer. he lose it because he be so proud. ]. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry grin like a rat trap never get near never get farther run after kangaroo. 
he have to. 
still run kangaroo old man kangaroo. he run through the ti tree. he run through the mulga. he run through the long grass. he run through the short grass. he run through the tropic of capricorn and cancer. he run till his hind leg ache. 
he have to. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo hungry and hungry grin like a horse collar never get near never get farther. and they come to the wollgong river. 
now there be n t any bridge and there be n t any ferry boat and kangaroo do n t know how to get over. so he stand on his leg and hop. 
he have to. 
he hop through the flinders. he hop through the cinder. he hop through the desert in the middle of australia. he hop like a kangaroo. 
first he hop one yard. then he hop three yard. then he hop five yard. his leg grow strong. his leg grow long. he have n t any time for rest or refreshment and he want them very much. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo very much bewilder very much hungry and wonder what in the world or out of it make old man kangaroo hop. 
[illustration. this be the picture of old man kangaroo at five in the afternoon when he have get his beautiful hind leg just a big god nqong have promise. you can see that it be five o clock because big god nqong s pet tame clock say so. that be nqong in his bath stick his foot out. old man kangaroo be be rude to yellow dog dingo. yellow dog dingo ha be try to catch kangaroo all across australia. you can see the mark of kangaroo s big new foot run ever so far back over the bare hill. yellow dog dingo be draw black because i be not allow to paint these picture with real colour out of the paint box. and besides yellow dog dingo get dreadfully black and dusty after run through the flinders and the cinder. 
i don t know the name of the flower grow round nqong s bath. the two little squatty thing out in the desert be the other two god that old man kangaroo speak to early in the morning. that thing with the letter on it be old man kangaroo s pouch. he have to have a pouch just a he have to have leg. ]. 
for he hop like a cricket. like a pea in a saucepan. or a new rubber ball on a nursery floor. 
he have to. 
he tuck up his front leg. he hop on his hind leg. he stick out his tail for a balance weight behind him. and he hop through the darling down. 
he have to. 
still run dingo tire dog dingo hungry and hungry very much bewilder and wonder when in the world or out of it would old man kangaroo stop. 
then come nqong from his bath in the salt pan and say it s five o clock. 
down sit dingo poor dog dingo always hungry dusky in the sunshine. hang out his tongue and howl. 
down sit kangaroo old man kangaroo stick out his tail like a milk stool behind him and say thank goodness that s finish. 
then say nqong who be always a gentleman why be n t you grateful to yellow dog dingo. why don t you thank him for all he ha do for you. 
then say kangaroo tire old kangaroo he s chase me out of the home of my childhood. he s chase me out of my regular meal time. he s alter my shape so i ll never get it back. and he s play old scratch with my leg. 
then say nqong perhaps i m mistake but didn t you ask me to make you different from all other animal a well a to make you very truly seek after. and now it be five o clock. 
yes say kangaroo. i wish that i have n t. i think you would do it by charm and incantation but this be a practical joke. 
joke. say nqong from his bath in the blue gum. say that again and i ll whistle up dingo and run your hind leg off. 
no say the kangaroo. i must apologize. leg be leg and you need n t alter em so far a i be concern. i only mean to explain to your lordliness that i ve have nothing to eat since morning and i m very empty indeed. 
yes say dingo yellow dog dingo i be just in the same situation. i ve make him different from all other animal. but what may i have for my tea. 
then say nqong from his bath in the salt pan come and ask me about it to morrow because i m go to wash. 
so they be leave in the middle of australia old man kangaroo and yellow dog dingo and each say that s your fault. 
this be the mouth fill song of the race that be run by a boomer run in a single burst only event of it kind start by big god nqong from warrigaborrigarooma old man kangaroo first. yellow dog dingo behind. 
kangaroo bound away his back leg work like piston bound from morning till dark twenty five foot to a bind. yellow dog dingo lay like a yellow cloud in the distance much too busy to bark. my. but they cover the grind. 
nobody know where they go or follow the track that they fly in for that continent have n t be give a name. they run thirty degree from torres strait to the leeuwin. look at the atlas please. and they run back a they come. 
s pose you could trot from adelaide to the pacific for an afternoon s run half what these gentleman do you would feel rather hot but your leg would develop terrific yes my importunate son you d be a marvellous kid. 
ii. 
fuzzy wuzzy. 
at the school council fuzzy wuzzy be elect vice president of mr. kipling s poem because he be so brave. 
soudan expeditionary force. 
we ve fight with many men acrost the sea an some of em be brave an some be not. the paythan an the zulu an burmese. but the fuzzy be the fine o the lot. we never get a ha porth s change of im. e squat in the scrub an ocked our or e cut our sentry up at suakim an e play the cat an banjo with our force. 
so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the sowdan. you re a poor benight eathen but a first class fightin man. we give you your certifikit an if you want it sign we ll come an ave a romp with you whenever you re incline. 
we take our chanst among the khyber hill the boer knock u silly at a mile the burman guv u irriwaddy chill an a zulu impi dish u up in style. but all we ever get from such a they be pop to what the fuzzy make u swaller. we eld our bloomin own the paper say but man for man the fuzzy knock u oller. 
then ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an the missis an the kid our order be to break you an of course we go an do. we slosh you with martini an it be n t ardly fair. but for all the odds agin you fuzzy wuz you bruk the square. 
e a n t get no paper of be own e a n t get no medal nor reward so we must certify the skill e s show in usin of be long two anded sword. when e s oppin in an out among the bush with be coffin head shield an shovel spear a appy day with fuzzy on the rush will last a ealthy tommy for a year. 
so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an your friend which be no more if we ad n t lose some messmate we would elp you to deplore. but give an take s the gospel an we ll call the bargain fair for if you ave lose more than u you crumple up the square. 
e rush at the smoke when we let drive an before we know e s ackin at our ead. e s all ot sand an ginger when alive an e s generally shammin when e s dead. e s a daisy e s a duck e s a lamb. e s a injun rubber idiot on the spree e s the on y thing that doe n t care a clam for the regiment o british infantree. 
so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the sowdan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. an ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy with your ayrick ead of air you big black boundin beggar for you bruk a british square. 
iii. 
the english flag. 
above the portico the union jack remain flutter in the flame for some time but ultimately when it fell the crowd rent the air with shout and seem to see significance in the incident. daily paper. 
wind of the world give answer. they be whimper to and fro and what should they know of england who only england know. the poor little street breed people that vapour and fume and brag they be lift their head in the stillness to yelp at the english flag. 
must we borrow a clout from the boer to plaster anew with dirt. an irish liar s bandage or an english coward s shirt. we may not speak of england. her flag s to sell or share. what be the flag of england. wind of the world declare. 
the north wind blow. from bergen my steel shoe vanguard go. i chase your lazy whaler home from the disko floe. by the great north light above me i work the will of god that the liner split on the ice field or the dogger fill with cod. 
i bar my gate with iron i shutter my door with flame because to force my rampart your nutshell navy come. i take the sun from their presence i cut them down with my blast and they die but the flag of england blow free ere the spirit pass. 
the lean white bear hath see it in the long long arctic night the musk ox know the standard that flout the northern light. what be the flag of england. ye have but my berg to dare ye have but my drift to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
the south wind sigh. from the virgin my mid sea course be ta en over a thousand island lose in an idle main where the sea egg flame on the coral and the long back breaker croon their endless ocean legend to the lazy lock lagoon. 
stray amid lonely islet mazed amid out key i wake the palm to laughter i toss the scud in the breeze never be isle so little never be sea so lone but over the scud and the palm tree an english flag be fly. 
i have wrench it free from the halliard to hang for a wisp on the horn. i have chase it north to the lizard ribboned and roll and tear. i have spread it fold o er the die adrift in a hopeless sea. i have hurl it swift on the slaver and see the slave set free. 
my bask sunfish know it and wheel albatross where the lone wave fill with fire beneath the southern cross. what be the flag of england. ye have but my reef to dare ye have but my sea to furrow. go forth for it be there. 
the east wind roar. from the kuriles the bitter sea i come and me men call the home wind for i bring the english home. look look well to your ship. by the breath of my mad typhoon i sweep your close pack praya and beach your best at kowloon. 
the reel junk behind me and the race sea before i rap your rich roadstead i plunder singapore. i set my hand on the hoogli. a a hood snake she rise and i fling your stout steamer to roost with the startle crow. 
never the lotos close never the wild fowl wake but a soul go out on the east wind that die for england s sake man or woman or suckle mother or bride or maid because on the bone of the english the english flag be stay. 
the desert dust hath dim it the fly wild as know. the scar white leopard wind it across the taint le snow. what be the flag of england. ye have but my sun to dare ye have but my sand to travel. go forth for it be there. 
the west wind call. in squadron the thoughtless galleon fly that bear the wheat and cattle l street breed people die. they make my might their porter they make my house their path till i loose my neck from their rudder and whelm them all in my wrath. 
i draw the glide fog bank a a snake be draw from the hole. they bellow one to the other the frighten ship bell toll for day be a drift terror till i raise the shroud with my breath and they see strange bow above them and the two go lock to death. 
but whether in calm or wrack wreath whether by dark or day i heave them whole to the conger or rip their plate away first of the scatter legion under a shriek sky dip between the roller the english flag go by. 
the dead dumb fog hath wrap it the freeze dew have kiss the naked star have see it a fellow star in the mist. what be the flag of england. ye have but my breath to dare ye have but my wave to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
iv. 
the king. 
farewell romance. the cave men say. with bone well carve he go away. flint arm the ignoble arrowhead and jasper tip the spear to day. change be the god of hunt and dance and he with these. farewell romance. 
farewell romance. the lake folk sigh. we lift the weight of flatling year. the cavern of the mountain side hold him who scorn our hutted pier. lose hill whereby we dare not dwell guard ye his rest. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the soldier speak. by sleight of sword we may not win but scuffle mid uncleanly smoke of arquebus and culverin. honour be lose and none may tell who pay good blow. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the trader cry. our keel ha lie with every sea. the dull return wind and tide heave up the wharf where we would be. the know and note breeze swell our trudge sail. romance farewell. 
good bye romance. the skipper say. he vanish with the coal we burn. our dial mark full steam ahead. our speed be time to half a turn. sure a the tidal train we ply twixt port and port. romance good bye. 
romance. the season ticket mourn _he never run to catch his train but pass with coach and guard and horn and leave the local late again. confound romance. and all unseen romance bring up the nine fifteen. 
his hand be on the lever lay his oil can soothe the worry crank his whistle wake the snow bind grade his fog horn cut the reek bank. in dock and deep and mine and mill the boy god reckless labour still. 
rob crown and throne he weave his spell where heart blood beat or hearth smoke curl with unconsidered miracle hedge in a backward gaze world. then teach his choose bard to say. the king be with u yesterday. 
v. 
to the unknown goddess. 
will you conquer my heart with your beauty my soul go out from afar. shall i fall to your hand a a victim of crafty and cautious shikar. 
have i meet you and pass you already unknowing unthinking and blind shall i meet you next session at simla oh sweet and best of your kind. 
* * * * *. 
ah goddess. child spinster or widow a of old on mar hill when they raise to the god that they know not an altar so i a young pagan have praise. 
the goddess i know not nor worship. yet if half that men tell me be true you will come in the future and therefore these verse be write to you. 
vi. 
the galley slave. 
oh gallant be our galley from her carven steer wheel to her figurehead of silver and her beak of hammer steel. the leg bar chafe the ankle and we gasp for cool air but no galley on the water with our galley could compare. 
our bulkhead bulge with cotton and our mast be step in gold we run a mighty merchandise of negro in the hold. the white foam spin behind u and the black shark swim below a we grip the kick sweep head and we make that galley go. 
it be merry in the galley for we revel now and then if they wear u down like cattle faith we fight and love like men. a we snatch her through the water so we snatch a minute s bliss and the mutter of the die never spoil the lover s kiss. 
our woman and our child toil beside u in the dark they die we file their fetter and we heave them to the shark we heave them to the fish but so fast the galley speed we have only time to envy for we could not mourn our dead. 
bear witness once my comrade what a hard bite gang be we the servant of the sweep head but the master of the sea. by the hand that drive her forward a she plunge and yaw and sheer woman man or god or devil be there anything we fear. 
be it storm. our father face it and a wild never blow. earth that wait for the wreckage watch the galley struggle through. burn noon or choke midnight sickness sorrow part death. nay our very babe would mock you have they time for idle breath. 
but to day i leave the galley and another take my place. there s my name upon the deck beam let it stand a little space. i be free to watch my messmate beat out to open main free of all that life can offer save to handle sweep again. 
by the brand upon my shoulder by the gall of cling steel by the welt the whip have leave me by the scar that never heal. by eye grow old with star through the sun wash on the brine i be pay in full for service would that service still be mine. 
* * * * *. 
it may be that fate will give me life and leave to row once more set some strong man free for fight a i take awhile his oar. but to day i leave the galley. shall i curse her service then. god be thank whate er come after i have live and toil with men. 
vii. 
the ship that find herself. 
it be her first voyage and though she be but a cargo steamer of twenty five hundred ton she be the very best of her kind the outcome of forty year of experiment and improvement in framework and machinery. and her designer and owner think a much of her a though she have be the lucania. anyone can make a float hotel that will pay expense if he put enough money into the saloon and charge for private bath suite of room and such like. but in these day of competition and low freight every square inch of a cargo boat must be build for cheapness great hold capacity and a certain steady speed. this boat be perhaps two hundred and forty foot long and thirty two foot wide with arrangement that enable her to carry cattle on her main and sheep on her upper deck if she want to. but her great glory be the amount of cargo that she could store away in her hold. her owner they be a very well know scotch firm come round with her from the north where she have be launch and christen and fit to liverpool where she be to take cargo for new york. and the owner s daughter miss frazier go to and fro on the clean deck admire the new paint and the brass work and the patent winch and particularly the strong straight bow over which she have crack a bottle of champagne when she name the steamer the dimbula. it be a beautiful september afternoon and the boat in all her newness she be paint lead colour with a red funnel look very fine indeed. her house flag be fly and her whistle from time to time acknowledge the salute of friendly boat who saw that she be new to the high and narrow sea and wish to make her welcome. 
and now say miss frazier delightedly to the captain she s a real ship be n t she. it seem only the other day father give the order for her and now and now be n t she a beauty. the girl be proud of the firm and talk a though she be the control partner. 
oh she s no so bad the skipper reply cautiously. but i m sayin that it take more than christenin to mak a ship. in the nature o thing miss frazier if ye follow me she s just iron and rivet and plate put into the form of a ship. she ha to find herself yet. 
i think father say she be exceptionally well find. 
so she be say the skipper with a laugh. but it s this way wi ship miss frazier. she s all here but the parrts of her have not learn to work together yet. they ve have no chance. 
the engine be work beautifully. i can hear them. 
yes indeed. but there s more than engine to a ship. every inch of her ye ll understand ha to be liven up and make to work wi it neighbour sweetenin her we call it technically. 
and how will you do it. the girl ask. 
we can no more than drive and steer her and so forth. but if we have rough weather this trip it s likely she ll learn the rest by heart. for a ship ye ll obsairve miss frazier be in no sense a reegid body close at both end. she s a highly complex structure o various an conflictin strain wi tissue that must give an tak accordin to her personal modulus of elasteecity. mr. buchanan the chief engineer be come toward them. i m sayin to miss frazier here that our little dimbula ha to be sweeten yet and nothin but a gale will do it. how s all wi your engine buck. 
well enough true by plumb an rule o course. but there s no spontaneeity yet. he turn to the girl. take my word miss frazier and maybe ye ll comprehend late. even after a pretty girl s christen a ship it doe not follow that there s such a thing a a ship under the men that work her. 
i be sayin the very same mr. buchanan the skipper interrupt. 
that s more metaphysical than i can follow say miss frazier laugh. 
why so. ye re good scotch an i know your mother s father he be fra dumfries ye ve a vest right in metapheesics miss frazier just a ye have in the dimbula_ the engineer say. 
eh well we must go down to the deep watters an earn miss frazier her deevidends. will you not come to my cabin for tea. say the skipper. we ll be in dock the night and when you re goin back to glasgie ye can think of u loadin her down an drivin her forth all for your sake. 
in the next few day they stow some four thousand ton dead weight into the dimbula_ and take her out from liverpool. a soon a she meet the lift of the open water she naturally begin to talk. if you lay your ear to the side of the cabin next time you be in a steamer you will hear hundred of little voice in every direction thrill and buzz and whisper and pop and gurgle and sob and squeak exactly like a telephone in a thunder storm. wooden ship shriek and growl and grunt but iron vessel throb and quiver through all their hundred of rib and thousand of rivet. the dimbula be very strongly build and every piece of her have a letter or number or both to describe it. and every piece have be hammer or forge or roll or punch by man and have live in the roar and rattle of the shipyard for month. therefore every piece have it own separate voice in exact proportion to the amount of trouble spend upon it. cast iron a a rule say very little. but mild steel plate and work iron and rib and beam that have be much bend and weld and rivet talk continuously. their conversation of course be not half a wise a our human talk because they be all though they do not know it bind down one to the other in a black darkness where they cannot tell what be happen near them nor what will overtake them next. 
a soon a she have clear the irish coast a sullen gray head old wave of the atlantic climb leisurely over her straight bow and sit down on her steam capstan use for haul up the anchor. now the capstan and the engine that drive it have be newly paint red and green. besides which nobody like be duck. 
don t you do that again the capstan sputter through the teeth of his cog. hi. where s the fellow go. 
the wave have slouch overside with a plop and a chuckle. but plenty more where he come from say a brother wave and go through and over the capstan who be bolt firmly to an iron plate on the iron deck beam below. 
can t you keep still up there. say the deck beam. what s the matter with you. one minute you weigh twice a much a you ought to and the next you don t. 
it be n t my fault say the capstan. there s a green brute outside that come and hit me on the head. 
tell that to the shipwright. you ve be in position for month and you ve never wriggle like this before. if you be n t careful you ll strain u. 
talk of strain say a low rasp unpleasant voice be any of you fellow you deck beam we mean aware that those exceedingly ugly knee of yours happen to be rivet into our structure ours. 
who might you be. the deck beam inquire. 
oh nobody in particular be the answer. we re only the port and starboard upper deck stringer. and if you persist in heave and hike like this we shall be reluctantly compel to take step. 
now the stringer of the ship be long iron girder so to speak that run lengthways from stern to bow. they keep the iron frame. what be call rib in a wooden ship. in place and also help to hold the end of the deck beam which go from side to side of the ship. stringer always consider themselves most important because they be so long. 
you will take step will you. this be a long echo rumble. it come from the frame score and score of them each one about eighteen inch distant from the next and each rivet to the stringer in four place. we think you will have a certain amount of trouble in that. and thousand and thousand of the little rivet that hold everything together whisper. you will. you will. stop quiver and be quiet. hold on brother. hold on. hot punch. what s that. 
rivet have no teeth so they cannot chatter with fright. but they do their best a a flutter jar sweep along the ship from stern to bow and she shake like a rat in a terrier s mouth. 
an unusually severe pitch for the sea be rise have lift the big throb screw nearly to the surface and it be spin round in a kind of soda water half sea and half air go much fast than be proper because there be no deep water for it to work in. a it sink again the engine and they be triple expansion three cylinder in a row snort through all their three piston be that a joke you fellow outside. it s an uncommonly poor one. how be we to do our work if you fly off the handle that way. 
i do n t fly off the handle say the screw twirl huskily at the end of the screw shaft. if i have you d have be scrap iron by this time. the sea drop away from under me and i have nothing to catch on to. that s all. 
that s all d you call it. say the thrust block whose business it be to take the push of the screw. for if a screw have nothing to hold it back it would crawl right into the engine room. it be the hold back of the screw action that give the drive to a ship. i know i do my work deep down and out of sight but i warn you i expect justice. all i ask for be bare justice. why can t you push steadily and evenly instead of whiz like a whirligig and make me hot under all my collar. the thrust block have six collar each face with brass and he do not wish to get them heat. 
all the bearing that support the fifty foot of screw shaft a it run to the stern whisper. justice give u justice. 
i can only give you what i can get the screw answer. look out. it s come again. 
he rise with a roar a the dimbula plunge and whack flack whack whack go the engine furiously for they have little to check them. 
i m the noble outcome of human ingenuity mr. buchanan say so squeal the high pressure cylinder. this be simply ridiculous. the piston go up savagely and choke for half the steam behind it be mix with dirty water. help. oiler. fit. stoker. help. i m choke it gasp. never in the history of maritime invention ha such a calamity overtake one so young and strong. and if i go who s to drive the ship. 
hush. oh hush. whisper the steam who of course have be to sea many time before. he use to spend his leisure ashore in a cloud or a gutter or a flower pot or a thunder storm or anywhere else where water be need. that s only a little prim a little carry over a they call it. it ll happen all night on and off. i don t say it s nice but it s the best we can do under the circumstance. 
what difference can circumstance make. i m here to do my work on clean dry steam. blow circumstance. the cylinder roar. 
the circumstance will attend to the blow. i ve work on the north atlantic run a good many time it s go to be rough before morning. 
it be n t distressingly calm now say the extra strong frame they be call web frame in the engine room. there s an upward thrust that we don t understand and there s a twist that be very bad for our bracket and diamond plate and there s a sort of west north westerly pull that follow the twist which seriously annoy u. we mention this because we happen to cost a good deal of money and we feel sure that the owner would not approve of our be treat in this frivolous way. 
i m afraid the matter be out of owner s hand for the present say the steam slip into the condenser. you re leave to your own device till the weather better. 
i would n t mind the weather say a flat bass voice below. it s this confound cargo that s break my heart. i m the garboard strake and i m twice a thick a most of the others and i ought to know something. 
the garboard strake be the low plate in the bottom of a ship and the dimbula s garboard strake be nearly three quarter of an inch mild steel. 
the sea push me up in a way i should never have expect the strake grunt and the cargo push me down and between the two i don t know what i m suppose to do. 
when in doubt hold on rumble the steam make head in the boiler. 
yes. but there s only dark and cold and hurry down here. and how do i know whether the other plate be do their duty. those bulwark plate up above i ve hear ain t more than five sixteenth of an inch thick scandalous i call it. 
i agree with you say a huge web frame by the main cargo hatch. he be deep and thick than all the others and curve half way across the ship in the shape of half an arch to support the deck where deck beam would have be in the way of cargo come up and down. i work entirely unsupported and i observe that i be the sole strength of this vessel so far a my vision extend. the responsibility i assure you be enormous. i believe the money value of the cargo be over one hundred and fifty thousand pound. think of that. 
and every pound of it be dependent on my personal exertion. here speak a sea valve that communicate directly with the water outside and be seat not very far from the garboard strake. i rejoice to think that i be a prince hyde valve with best para rubber facing. five patent cover me i mention this without pride five separate and several patent each one fine than the other. at present i be screw fast. should i open you would immediately be swamp. this be incontrovertible. 
patent thing always use the long word they can. it be a trick that they pick up from their inventor. 
that s news say a big centrifugal bilge pump. i have an idea that you be employ to clean deck and thing with. at least i ve use you for that more than once. i forget the precise number in thousand of gallon which i be guarantee to throw per hour. but i assure you my complain friend that there be not the least danger. i alone be capable of clear any water that may find it way here. by my big delivery we pitch then. 
the sea be get up in workmanlike style. it be a dead westerly gale blow from under a rag open of green sky narrow on all side by fat gray cloud. and the wind bite like pincer a it fret the spray into lacework on the flank of the wave. 
i tell you what it be the foremast telephone down it wire stay. i m up here and i can take a dispassionate view of thing. there s an organize conspiracy against u. i m sure of it because every single one of these wave be head directly for our bow. the whole sea be concern in it and so s the wind. it s awful. 
what s awful. say a wave drown the capstan for the hundredth time. 
this organize conspiracy on your part the capstan gurgle take his cue from the mast. 
organize bubble and spindrift. there ha be a depression in the gulf of mexico. excuse me. he leap overside. but his friend take up the tale one after another. 
which ha advance that wave heave green water over the funnel. 
a far a cape hatteras he drench the bridge. 
and be now go out to sea to sea to sea. the third go free in three surge make a clean sweep of a boat which turn bottom up and sink in the darken trough alongside while the break fall whip the davit. 
that s all there be to it seethe the white water roar through the scupper. there s no animus in our proceeding. we re only meteorological corollary. 
be it go to get any bad. say the bow anchor chain down to the deck where he could only breathe once in five minute. 
not know can t say. wind may blow a bite by midnight. thank awfully. good bye. 
the wave that speak so politely have travel some distance aft and find itself all mix up on the deck amidships which be a well deck sink between high bulwark. one of the bulwark plate which be hang on hinge to open outward have swing out and pass the bulk of the water back to the sea again with a clean smack. 
evidently that s what i m make for say the plate close again with a sputter of pride. oh no you don t my friend. 
the top of a wave be try to get in from the outside but a the plate do not open in that direction the defeat water spurt back. 
not bad for five sixteenth of an inch say the bulwark plate. my work i see be lay down for the night. and it begin open and shut a it be design to do with the motion of the ship. 
we be not what you might call idle groan all the frame together a the dimbula climb a big wave lay on her side at the top and shoot into the next hollow twist in the descent. a huge swell push up exactly under her middle and her bow and stern hang free with nothing to support them. then one joke wave catch her up at the bow and another at the stern while the rest of the water slink away from under her just to see how she would like it. so she be hold up at her two end only and the weight of the cargo and the machinery fell on the groan iron keel and bilge stringer. 
ease off. ease off there. roar the garboard strake. i want one eighth of an inch fair play. d you hear me you rivet. 
ease off. ease off. cry the bilge stringer. don t hold u so tight to the frame. 
ease off. grunt the deck beam a the dimbula roll fearfully. you ve cramp our knee into the stringer and we can t move. ease off you flat head little nuisance. 
then two converge sea hit the bow one on each side and fell away in torrent of stream thunder. 
ease off. shout the forward collision bulkhead. i want to crumple up but i m stiffen in every direction. ease off you dirty little forge filing. let me breathe. 
all the hundred of plate that be rivet to the frame and make the outside skin of every steamer echo the call for each plate want to shift and creep a little and each plate accord to it position complain against the rivet. 
we can t help it. we can t help it. they murmur in reply. we re put here to hold you and we re go to do it. you never pull u twice in the same direction. if you d say what you be go to do next we d try to meet your view. 
a far a i could feel say the upper deck plank and that be four inch thick every single iron near me be push or pull in opposite direction. now what s the sense of that. my friend let u all pull together. 
pull any way you please roar the funnel so long a you don t try your experiment on me. i need fourteen wire rope all pull in different direction to hold me steady. be n t that so. 
we believe you my boy. whistle the funnel stay through their clinch teeth a they twang in the wind from the top of the funnel to the deck. 
nonsense. we must all pull together the deck repeat. pull lengthways. 
very good say the stringer. then stop push sideways when you get wet. be content to run gracefully fore and aft and curve in at the end a we do. 
no no curve at the end. a very slight workmanlike curve from side to side with a good grip at each knee and little piece weld on say the deck beam. 
fiddle. cry the iron pillar of the deep dark hold. who ever hear of curve. stand up straight. be a perfectly round column and carry ton of good solid weight like that. there. a big sea smash on the deck above and the pillar stiffen themselves to the load. 
straight up and down be not bad say the frame who run that way in the side of the ship but you must also expand yourselves sideways. expansion be the law of life child. open out. open out. 
come back. say the deck beam savagely a the upward heave of the sea make the frame try to open. come back to your bearing you slack jaw iron. 
rigidity. rigidity. rigidity. thump the engine. absolute unvarying rigidity rigidity. 
you see. whine the rivet in chorus. no two of you will ever pull alike and and you blame it all on u. we only know how to go through a plate and bite down on both side so that it can t and must n t and shan t move. 
i ve get one fraction of an inch play at any rate say the garboard strake triumphantly. so he have and all the bottom of the ship felt the easy for it. 
then we re no good sob the bottom rivet. we be order we be order never to give. and we ve give and the sea will come in and we ll all go to the bottom together. first we re blame for everything unpleasant and now we have n t the consolation of have do our work. 
don t say i tell you whisper the steam consolingly. but between you and me and the last cloud i come from it be bind to happen sooner or late. you have to give a fraction and you ve give without know it. now hold on a before. 
what s the use. a few hundred rivet chatter. we ve give we ve give. and the sooner we confess that we can t keep the ship together and go off our little head the easy it will be. no rivet forge can stand this strain. 
no one rivet be ever mean to. share it among you the steam answer. 
the others can have my share. i m go to pull out say a rivet in one of the forward plate. 
if you go others will follow hiss the steam. there s nothing so contagious in a boat a rivet go. why i know a little chap like you he be an eighth of an inch fat though on a steamer to be sure she be only twelve hundred ton now i come to think of it in exactly the same place a you be. he pull out in a bite of a bobble of a sea not half a bad a this and he start all his friend on the same butt strap and the plate open like a furnace door and i have to climb into the near fog bank while the boat go down. 
now that s peculiarly disgraceful say the rivet. fat than me be he and in a steamer not half our tonnage. reedy little peg. i blush for the family sir. he settle himself more firmly than ever in his place and the steam chuckle. 
you see he go on quite gravely a rivet and especially a rivet in your position be really the one indispensable part of the ship. 
the steam do not say that he have whisper the very same thing to every single piece of iron aboard. there be no sense in tell too much truth. 
and all that while the little dimbula pitch and chop and swing and slew and lay down a though she be go to die and get up a though she have be sting and throw her nose round and round in circle half a dozen time a she dip. for the gale be at it bad. it be inky black in spite of the tear white froth on the wave and to top everything the rain begin to fall in sheet so that you could not see your hand before your face. this do not make much difference to the ironwork below but it trouble the foremast a good deal. 
now it s all finish he say dismally. the conspiracy be too strong for u. there be nothing leave but to. 
_hurraar. brrrraaah. brrrrrrp. roar the steam through the fog horn till the deck quiver. don t be frighten below. it s only me just throw out a few word in case any one happen to be roll round to night. 
you don t mean to say there s any one except u on the sea in such weather. say the funnel in a husky snuffle. 
score of em say the steam clear it throat. _rrrrrraaa. brraaaaa. prrrrp. it s a trifle windy up here. and great boiler. how it rain. 
we re drown say the scupper. they have be do nothing else all night but this steady thrash of rain above them seem to be the end of the world. 
that s all right. we ll be easy in an hour or two. first the wind and then the rain. soon you may make sail again. grrraaaaaah. drrrraaaa. drrrp. i have a notion that the sea be go down already. if it doe you ll learn something about roll. we ve only pitch till now. by the way be n t you chap in the hold a little easy than you be. 
there be just a much groan and strain a ever but it be not so loud or squeaky in tone. and when the ship quiver she do not jar stiffly like a poker hit on the floor but give with a supple little waggle like a perfectly balance golf club. 
we have make a most amaze discovery say the stringer one after another. a discovery that entirely change the situation. we have find for the first time in the history of ship build that the inward pull of the deck beam and the outward thrust of the frame lock u a it be more closely in our place and enable u to endure a strain which be entirely without parallel in the record of marine architecture. 
the steam turn a laugh quickly into a roar up the fog horn. what massive intellect you great stringer have he say softly when he have finish. 
we also begin the deck beam be discoverer and genius. we be of opinion that the support of the hold pillar materially help u. we find that we lock up on them when we be subject to a heavy and singular weight of sea above. 
here the dimbula shoot down a hollow lie almost on her side right at the bottom with a wrench and a spasm. 
in these case be you aware of this steam. the plat at the bow and particularly at the stern we would also mention the floor beneath u help u to resist any tendency to spring. the frame speak in the solemn awe voice which people use when they have just come across something entirely new for the very first time. 
i m only a poor puffy little flutterer say the steam but i have to stand a good deal of pressure in my business. it s all tremendously interest. tell u some more. you fellow be so strong. 
watch u and you ll see say the bow plate proudly. ready behind there. here s the father and mother of wave come. sit tight rivet all. a great sluice comber thunder by but through the scuffle and confusion the steam could hear the low quick cry of the ironwork a the various strain take them cry like these. easy now easy. now push for all your strength. hold out. give a fraction. holdup. pull in. shove crossway. mind the strain at the end. grip now. bite tight. let the water get away from under and there she go. 
the wave race off into the darkness shout not bad that if it s your first run. and the drench and duck ship throb to the beat of the engine inside her. all three cylinder be white with the salt spray that have come down through the engine room hatch. there be white fur on the canvas bind steam pipe and even the bright work deep below be speckle and soil. but the cylinder have learn to make the most of steam that be half water and be pound along cheerfully. 
how s the noble outcome of human ingenuity hit it. say the steam a he whirl through the engine room. 
nothing for nothing in this world of woe the cylinder answer a though they have be work for century and precious little for seventy five pound head. we ve make two knot this last hour and a quarter. rather humiliate for eight hundred horse power be n t it. 
well it s good than drift astern at any rate. you seem rather le how shall i put it. stiff in the back than you be. 
if you d be hammer a we ve be this night you would n t be stiff iff iff either. theoreti retti retti cally of course rigidity be the thing. purrr purr practically there ha to be a little give and take. we find that out by work on our side for five minute at a stretch chch chh. how s the weather. 
sea s go down fast say the steam. 
good business say the high pressure cylinder. whack her up boy. they ve give u five pound more steam. and he begin hum the first bar of say the young obadiah to the old obadiah which a you may have notice be a pet tune among engine not build for high speed. race liner with twin screw sing the turkish patrol and the overture to the bronze horse and madame angot till something go wrong and then they render gounod s funeral march of a marionette with variation. 
you ll learn a song of your own some fine day say the steam a he fly up the fog horn for one last bellow. 
next day the sky clear and the sea drop a little and the dimbula begin to roll from side to side till every inch of iron in her be sick and giddy. but luckily they do not all feel ill at the same time. otherwise she would have open out like a wet paper box. 
the steam whistle warning a he go about his business. it be in this short quick roll and tumble that follow a heavy sea that most of the accident happen for then everything think that the bad be over and go off guard. so he orate and chatter till the beam and frame and floor and stringer and thing have learn how to lock down and lock up on one another and endure this new kind of strain. 
they find ample time to practise for they be sixteen day at sea and it be foul weather till within a hundred mile of new york. the dimbula pick up her pilot and come in cover with salt and red rust. her funnel be dirty gray from top to bottom. two boat have be carry away. three copper ventilator look like hat after a fight with the police. the bridge have a dimple in the middle of it. the house that cover the steam steer gear be split a with hatchet. there be a bill for small repair in the engine room almost a long a the screw shaft. the forward cargo hatch fell into bucket stave when they raise the iron cross bar. and the steam capstan have be badly wrench on it bed. altogether a the skipper say it be a pretty general average. 
but she s soupled he say to mr. buchanan. for all her dead weight she ride like a yacht. ye mind that last blow off the bank. i be proud of her buck. 
it s vera good say the chief engineer look along the dishevel deck. now a man judgin superfeecially would say we be a wreck but we know otherwise by experience. 
naturally everything in the dimbula fairly stiffen with pride and the foremast and the forward collision bulkhead who be push creature beg the steam to warn the port of new york of their arrival. tell those big boat all about u they say. they seem to take u quite a a matter of course. 
it be a glorious clear dead calm morning and in single file with le than half a mile between each their band play and their tug boat shout and wave handkerchief be the majestic_ the paris_ the touraine_ the servia_ the kaiser wilhelm ii. and the werkendam_ all statelily go out to sea. a the dimbula shift her helm to give the great boat clear way the steam. who know far too much to mind make an exhibition of himself now and then. shout. 
oyez. oyez. oyez. prince duke and baron of the high sea. know ye by these present we be the dimbula_ fifteen day nine hour from liverpool have cross the atlantic with four thousand ton of cargo for the first time in our career. we have not founder. we be here eer. eer. we be not disable. but we have have a time wholly unparalleled in the annals of ship build. our deck be sweep. we pitch. we roll. we think we be go to die. hi. hi. but we do n t. we wish to give notice that we have come to new york all the way across the atlantic through the bad weather in the world. and we be the dimbula. we be arr ha ha ha r r r. 
the beautiful line of boat sweep by a steadily a the procession of the season. the dimbula hear the majestic say hmph. and the paris grunt how. and the touraine say oui. with a little coquettish flicker of steam. and the servia say haw. and the kaiser and the werkendam say hoch. dutch fashion and that be absolutely all. 
i do my best say the steam gravely but i don t think they be much impress with u somehow. do you. 
it s simply disgust say the bow plate. they might have see what we ve be through. there be n t a ship on the sea that ha suffer a we have be there now. 
well i would n t go so far a that say the steam because i ve work on some of those boat and send them through weather quite a bad a the fortnight that we ve have in six day. and some of them be a little over ten thousand ton i believe. now i ve see the majestic_ for instance duck from her bow to her funnel. and i ve help the arizona_ i think she be to back off an iceberg she meet with one dark night. and i have to run out of the paris s engine room one day because there be thirty foot of water in it. of course i don t deny the steam shut off suddenly a a tug boat load with a political club and a brass band that have be to see a new york senator off to europe cross their bow go to hoboken. there be a long silence that reach without a break from the cut water to the propeller blade of the dimbula. 
then a new big voice say slowly and thickly a though the owner have just wake up. it s my conviction that i have make a fool of myself. 
the steam know what have happen at once. for when a ship find herself all the talk of the separate piece cease and melt into one voice which be the soul of the ship. 
who be you. he say with a laugh. 
i be the dimbula_ of course. i ve never be anything else except that and a fool. 
the tug boat which be do it very best to be run down get away just in time it band play clashily and brassily a popular but impolite air. 
in the day of old ram be you on. in the day of old ram be you on. in the day of old ram that story have paresis be you on be you on be you on. 
well i m glad you ve find yourself say the steam. to tell the truth i be a little tire of talk to all those rib and stringer. here s quarantine. after that we ll go to our wharf and clean up a little and next month we ll do it all over again. 
i. 
a trip across a continent[ ]. 
harvey n. cheyne a spoil darling perhaps fifteen year old an american first last and all the time have stagger over the wet deck to the near rail after try to smoke a wheel stogie. he be faint from seasickness and a roll of the ship tilt him over the rail where a gray mother wave tuck him under one arm. he be pick up by the fish schooner we re here_ and after many marvellous experience among the sailor arrive in port a happy and wise fellow. his telegram to his father bring the follow result. 
cheyne be fly to meet the only son so miraculously restore to him. the bear be seek his cub not the bull. hard men who have their knife draw to fight for their financial life put away the weapon and wish him god speed while half a dozen panic smite tin pot road perk up their head and speak of the wonderful thing they would have do have not cheyne bury the hatchet. 
[footnote. a selection from captain courageous copyright by the century company. ]. 
it be a busy week end among the wire. for now that their anxiety be remove men and city hasten to accommodate. los angeles call to san diego and barstow that the southern california engineer might know and be ready in their lonely roundhouse. barstow pass the word to the atlantic and pacific. and albuquerque fling it the whole length of the atchison topeka and santa fé management even into chicago. an engine combination car with crew and the great and gild constance private car be to be expedite over those two thousand three hundred and fifty mile. the train would take precedence of one hundred and seventy seven others meet and pass. despatchers and crew of every one of those say train must be notify. sixteen locomotive. sixteen engineer and sixteen fireman would be need each and every one the best available. two and one half minute would be allow for change engine three for water and two for coal. warn the men and arrange tank and chute accordingly. for harvey cheyne be in a hurry a hurry hurry sing the wire. forty mile an hour will be expect and division superintendent will accompany this special over their respective division. from san diego to sixteenth street chicago let the magic carpet be lay down. hurry. oh hurry. 
it will be hot say cheyne a they roll out of san diego in the dawn of sunday. we re go to hurry mamma just a fast a ever we can. but i really don t think there s any good of your put on your bonnet and glove yet. you d much good lie down and take your medicine. i d play you a game o domino but it s sunday. 
i ll be good. oh i will be good. only take off my bonnet make me feel a if we d never get there. 
try to sleep a little mamma and we ll be in chicago before you know. 
but it s boston father. tell them to hurry. 
the six foot driver be hammer their way to san bernardino and the mohave waste but this be no grade for speed. that would come late. the heat of the desert follow the heat of the hill a they turn east to the needle and the colorado river. the car crack in the utter drought and glare and they put crush ice to mr. cheyne s neck and toil up the long long grade past ash fork toward flagstaff where the forest and quarry be under the dry remote sky. the needle of the speed indicator flick and wag to and fro the cinder rattle on the roof and a whirl of dust suck after the whirl wheel. the crew of the combination sit on their bunk pant in their shirt sleeve and cheyne find himself among them shout old old story of the railroad that every trainman know above the roar of the car. he tell them about his son and how the sea have give up it dead and they nod and spat and rejoice with him. ask after her back there and whether she could stand it if the engineer let her out a piece and cheyne think she could. accordingly the great fire horse be let out from flagstaff to winslow till a division superintendent protest. 
but mr. cheyne in the boudoir stateroom where the french maid sallow white with fear cling to the silver door handle only moan a little and beg her husband to bid them hurry. and so they drop the dry sand and moon strike rock of arizona behind them and grill on till the crash of the coupling and the wheeze of the brake hose tell them they be at coolidge by the continental divide. 
three bold and experience men cool confident and dry when they begin. white quiver and wet when they finish their trick at those terrible wheel swing her over the great lift from albuquerque to glorietta and beyond springer up and up to the raton tunnel on the state line whence they drop rock into la junta have sight of the arkansaw and tear down the long slope to dodge city where cheyne take comfort once again from set his watch an hour ahead. 
there be very little talk in the car. the secretary and typewriter sit together on the stamp spanish leather cushion by the plate glass observation window at the rear end watch the surge and ripple of the tie crowd back behind them and it be believe make note of the scenery. cheyne move nervously between his own extravagant gorgeousness and the naked necessity of the combination an unlit cigar in his teeth till the pity crew forget that he be their tribal enemy and do their best to entertain him. 
at night the bunch electric light up that distressful palace of all the luxury and they fare sumptuously swing on through the emptiness of abject desolation. now they hear the swish of a water tank and the guttural voice of a chinaman the clink clink of hammer that test the krupp steel wheel and the oath of a tramp chase off the rear platform. now the solid crash of coal shoot into the tender. and now a beat back of noise a they fly past a wait train. now they look out into great abyss a trestle purr beneath their tread or up to rock that bar out half the star. now scaur and ravine change and roll back to jag mountain on the horizon s edge and now break into hill low and low till at last come the true plain. 
at dodge city an unknown hand throw in a copy of a kansa paper contain some sort of an interview with harvey who have evidently fall in with an enterprising reporter telegraph on from boston. the joyful journalese reveal that it be beyond question their boy and it soothe mr. cheyne for a while. her one word hurry be convey by the crew to the engineer at nickerson topeka and marceline where the grade be easy and they brush the continent behind them. town and village be close together now and a man could feel here that he move among people. 
i can t see the dial and my eye ache so. what be we do. 
the very best we can mamma. there s no sense in get in before the limit. we d only have to wait. 
i don t care. i want to feel we re move. sit down and tell me the mile. 
cheyne sit down and read the dial for her. there be some mile which stand for record to this day. but the seventy foot car never change it long steamer like roll move through the heat with the hum of a giant bee. yet the speed be not enough for mr. cheyne. and the heat the remorseless august heat be make her giddy. the clock hand would not move and when oh when would they be in chicago. 
it be not true that a they change engine at fort madison cheyne pass over to the amalgamate brotherhood of locomotive engineer an endowment sufficient to enable them to fight him and his fellow on equal term for evermore. he pay his obligation to engineer and fireman a he believe they deserve and only his bank know what he give the crew who have sympathize with him. it be on record that the last crew take entire charge of switch operation at sixteenth street because she be in a doze at last and heaven be to help any one who bump her. 
now the highly pay specialist who convey the lake shore and michigan southern limit from chicago to elkhart be something of an autocrat and he doe not approve of be tell how to back up to a car. none the le he handle the constance a if she might have be a load of dynamite and when the crew rebuke him they do it in whisper and dumb show. 
pshaw. say the atchison topeka and santa fé men discuss life late we be n t runnin for a record. harvey cheyne s wife she be sick back an we do n t want to jounce her. come to think of it our runnin time from san diego to chicago be. you can tell that to them eastern way train. when we re tryin for a record we ll let you know. 
to the western man. though this would not please either city. chicago and boston be cheek by jowl and some railroad encourage the delusion. the limit whirl the constance into buffalo and the arm of the new york central and hudson river. illustrious magnate with white whisker and gold charm on their watch chain board her here to talk a little business to cheyne. who slide her gracefully into albany where the boston and albany complete the run from tide water to tide water total time eighty seven hour and thirty five minute or three day fifteen hour and one half. harvey be wait for them. 
ii. 
the child of the zodiac[ ]. 
it s too hard say the big boy. i don t know what zodiac mean. i will hunt up the word for you in the dictionary say the little girl. and when they come to the next story the boy take pleasure in do his own hunt in the dictionary. 
though thou love her a thyself a a self of pure clay though her part dim the day steal grace from all alive heartily know when half god go the god arrive. emerson. 
thousand of year ago when men be great than they be to day the child of the zodiac live in the world. there be six child of the zodiac the ram the bull the lion the twin and the girl. and they be afraid of the six house which belong to the scorpion the balance the crab the fish the goat and the waterman. even when they first step down upon the earth and know that they be immortal god they carry this fear with them. and the fear grow a they become good acquaint with mankind and hear story of the six house. men treat the child a god and come to them with prayer and long story of wrong while the child of the zodiac listen and could not understand. 
[footnote. copyright by harper & brother. ]. 
a mother would fling herself before the foot of the twin or the bull cry. my husband be at work in the field and the archer shoot him and he die. and my son will also be kill by the archer. help me. the bull would low his huge head and answer. what be that to me. or the twin would smile and continue their play for they could not understand why the water run out of people s eye. at other time a man and a woman would come to leo or the girl cry. we two be newly marry and we be very happy. take these flower. a they throw the flower they would make mysterious sound to show that they be happy and leo and the girl wonder even more than the twin why people shout ha. ha. ha. for no cause. 
this continue for thousand of year by human reckon till on a day leo meet the girl walk across the hill and saw that she have change entirely since he have last see her. the girl look at leo saw that he too have change altogether. then they decide that it would be well never to separate again in case even more startle change should occur when the one be not at hand to help the other. leo kiss the girl and all earth felt that kiss and the girl sit down on a hill and the water run out of her eye. and this have never happen before in the memory of the child of the zodiac. 
a they sit together a man and a woman come by and the man say to the woman. 
what be the use of waste flower on those dull god. they will never understand darling. 
the girl jump up and put her arm around the woman cry i understand. give me the flower and i will give you a kiss. 
leo say beneath his breath to the man. what be the new name that i hear you give to your woman just now. 
the man answer darling of course. 
why of course say leo. and if of course what doe it mean. 
it mean very dear and you have only to look at your wife to see why. 
i see say leo. you be quite right. and when the man and the woman have go on he call the girl darling wife. and the girl weep again from sheer happiness. 
i think she say at last wipe her eye i think that we two have neglect men and woman too much. what do you do with the sacrifice they make to you leo. 
i let them burn say leo. i could not eat them. what do you do with the flower. 
i let them wither. i could not wear them i have so many of my own say the girl and now i be sorry. 
there be nothing to grieve for say leo. we belong to each other. 
a they be talk the year of men s life slip by unnoticed and presently the man and the woman come back both white head the man carry the woman. 
we have come to the end of thing say the man quietly. this that be my wife. 
a i be leo s wife say the girl quickly her eye star. 
be my wife ha be kill by one of your house. the man set down his burden and laugh. 
which house. say leo angrily for he hat all the house equally. 
you be god you should know say the man. we have live together and love one another and i have leave a good farm for my son. what have i to complain of except that i still live. 
a he be bend over his wife s body there come a whistle through the air and he start and try to run away cry it be the arrow of the archer. let me live a little long only a little long. the arrow strike him and he die. leo look at the girl and she look at him and both be puzzle. 
he wish to die say leo. he say that he wish to die and when death come he try to run away. he be a coward. 
no he be not say the girl. i think i feel what he felt. leo we must learn more about this for their sake. 
for their sake say leo very loudly. 
because we be never go to die say the girl and leo together still more loudly. 
now sit you still here darling wife say leo while i go to the house whom we hate and learn how to make these men and woman live a we do. 
and love a we do. say the girl. 
i do not think they need to be teach that say leo and he stride away very angry with his lion skin swing from his shoulder till he come to the house where the scorpion life in the darkness brandish his tail over his back. 
why do you trouble the child of men. say leo with his heart between his teeth. 
be you so sure that i trouble the child of men alone. say the scorpion. speak to your brother the bull and see what he say. 
i come on behalf of the child of men say leo. i have learn to love a they do and i wish them to live a i a we do. 
your wish be grant long ago. speak to the bull. he be under my special care say the scorpion. 
leo drop back to the earth again and saw the great star aldebaran that be set in the forehead of the bull blaze very near to the earth. when he come up to it he saw that his brother the bull yoke to a countryman s plough be toil through a wet rice field with his head bend down and the sweat stream from his flank. the countryman be urge him forward with a goad. 
gore that insolent to death cry leo and for the sake of our family honour come out of the mire. 
i cannot say the bull the scorpion ha tell me that some day of which i cannot be sure he will sting me where my neck be set on my shoulder and that i shall die bellow. 
what ha that to do with this disgraceful exhibition. say leo stand on the dyke that bound the wet field. 
everything. this man could not plough without my help. he think that i be a stray bullock. 
but he be a mud crust cottar with mat hair insist leo. we be not mean for his use. 
you may not be. i be. i cannot tell when the scorpion may choose to sting me to death perhaps before i have turn this furrow. the bull fling his bulk into the yoke and the plough tear through the wet grind behind him and the countryman goad him till his flank be red. 
do you like this. leo call down the drip furrow. 
no say the bull over his shoulder a he lift his hind leg from the cling mud and clear his nostril. 
leo leave him scornfully and pass to another country where he find his brother the ram in the centre of a crowd of country people who be hang wreath round his neck and feed him on freshly pluck green corn. 
this be terrible say leo. break up that crowd and come away my brother. their hand be spoil your fleece. 
i cannot say the ram. the archer tell me that on some day of which i have no knowledge he would send a dart through me and that i should die in very great pain. 
what ha that to do with this. say leo but he do not speak a confidently a before. 
everything in the world say the ram. these people never saw a perfect sheep before. they think that i be a stray and they will carry me from place to place a a model to all their flock. 
but they be greasy shepherd we be not intend to amuse them say leo. 
you may not be. i be say the ram. i cannot tell when the archer may choose to send his arrow at me perhaps before the people a mile down the road have see me. the ram lower his head that a yokel newly arrive might throw a wreath of wild garlic leaf over it and wait patiently while the farmer tug his fleece. 
do you like this. cry leo over the shoulder of the crowd. 
no say the ram a the dust of the trample foot make him sneeze and he snuff at the fodder pile before him. 
leo turn back intend to retrace his step to the house but a he be pass down a street he saw two small child very dusty roll outside a cottage door and play with a cat. they be the twin. 
what be you do here. say leo indignant. 
play say the twin calmly. 
cannot you play on the bank of the milky way. say leo. 
we do say they till the fish swim down and tell u that some day they would come for u and not hurt u at all and carry u away. so now we be play at be baby down here. the people like it. 
do you like it. say leo. 
no say the twin but there be no cat in the milky way and they pull the cat s tail thoughtfully. a woman come out of the doorway and stand behind them and leo saw in her face a look that he have sometimes see in the girl s. 
she think that we be foundling say the twin and they trot indoors to the even meal. 
then leo hurry a swiftly a possible to all the house one after another. for he could not understand the new trouble that have come to his brother. he speak to the archer and the archer assure him that so far a that house be concern leo have nothing to fear. the waterman the fish and the goat give the same answer. they know nothing of leo and care le. they be the house and they be busy in kill men. 
at last he come to that very dark house where cancer the crab lie so still that you might think he be asleep if you do not see the ceaseless play and winnow motion of the feathery branch round his mouth. that movement never cease. it be like the eat of a smother fire into rotten timber in that it be noiseless and without haste. 
leo stand in front of the crab and the half darkness allow him a glimpse of that vast blue black back and the motionless eye. now and again he think that he hear some one sob but the noise be very faint. 
why do you trouble the child of men. say leo. there be no answer and against his will leo cry why do you trouble u. what have we do that you should trouble u. 
this time cancer reply what do i know or care. you be bear into my house and at the appoint time i shall come for you. 
when be the appoint time. say leo step back from the restless movement of the mouth. 
when the full moon fail to call the full tide say the crab i shall come for the one. when the other ha take the earth by the shoulder i shall take that other by the throat. 
leo lift his hand to the apple of his throat moisten his lip and recover himself say. 
must i be afraid for two then. 
for two say the crab and a many more a may come after. 
my brother the bull have a good fate say leo sullenly. he be alone. 
a hand cover his mouth before he could finish the sentence and he find the girl in his arm. woman like she have not stay where leo have leave her but have hasten off at once to know the bad and pass all the other house have come straight to cancer. 
that be foolish say the girl whisper. i have be wait in the dark for long and long before you come. then i be afraid. but now she put her head down on his shoulder and sigh a sigh of contentment. 
i be afraid now say leo. 
that be on my account say the girl. i know it be because i be afraid for your sake. let u go husband. 
they go out of the darkness together and come back to the earth leo very silent and the girl strive to cheer him. my brother s fate be the good one leo would repeat from time to time and at last he say. let u each go our own way and live alone till we die. we be bear into the house of cancer and he will come for u. 
i know. i know. but where shall i go. and where will you sleep in the even. but let u try. i will stay here. do you go on. 
leo take six step forward very slowly and three long step backward very quickly and the third step set him again at the girl s side. this time it be she who be beg him to go away and leave her and he be force to comfort her all through the night. that night decide them both never to leave each other for an instant and when they have come to this decision they look back at the darkness of the house of cancer high above their head and with their arm round each other s neck laugh ha. ha. ha. exactly a the child of men laugh. and that be the first time in their life that they have ever laugh. 
next morning they return to their proper home and saw the flower and the sacrifice that have be lay before their door by the villager of the hill. leo stamp down the fire with his heel and the girl fling the flower wreath out of sight shudder a she do so. when the villager re return a of custom to see what have become of their offering they find neither rose nor burn flesh on the altar but only a man and a woman with frighten white face sit hand in hand on the altar step. 
be you not virgo. say a woman to the girl. i send you flower yesterday. 
little sister say the girl flush to her forehead do not send any more flower for i be only a woman like yourself. the man and the woman go away doubtfully. 
now what shall we do. say leo. 
we must try to be cheerful i think say the girl. we know the very bad that can happen to u but we do not know the best that love can bring u. we have a great deal to be glad of. 
the certainty of death. say leo. 
all the child of men have that certainty also. yet they laugh long before we ever know how to laugh. we must learn to laugh leo. we have laugh once already. 
people who consider themselves god a the child of the zodiac do find it hard to laugh because the immortal know nothing worth laughter or tear. leo rise up with a very heavy heart and he and the girl together go to and fro among men. their new fear of death behind them. first they laugh at a naked baby attempt to thrust it fat toe into it foolish pink mouth. next they laugh at a kitten chase her own tail. and then they laugh at a boy try to steal a kiss from a girl and get his ear box. lastly they laugh because the wind blow in their face a they run down a hill side together and break pant and breathless into a knot of villager at the bottom. the villager laugh too at their fly clothe and wind redden face. and in the even give them food and invite them to a dance on the grass where everybody laugh through the mere joy of be able to dance. 
that night leo jump up from the girl s side cry. every one of those people we meet just now will die. 
so shall we say the girl sleepily. lie down again dear. leo could not see that her face be wet with tear. 
but leo be up and far across the field drive forward by the fear of death for himself and for the girl who be dear to him than himself. presently he come across the bull drowse in the moonlight after a hard day s work and look through half shut eye at the beautiful straight furrow that he have make. 
ho. say the bull. so you have be tell these thing too. which of the house hold your death. 
leo point upward to the dark house of the crab and groan. and he will come for the girl too he say. 
well say the bull what will you do. 
leo sit down on the dike and say that he do not know. 
you cannot pull a plough say the bull with a little touch of contempt. i can and that prevent me from think of the scorpion. 
leo be angry and say nothing till the dawn break and the cultivator come to yoke the bull to his work. 
sing say the bull a the stiff muddy ox bow creak and strain. my shoulder be gall. sing one of the song that we sing when we think we be all god together. 
leo step back into the canebrake and lift up his voice in a song of the child of the zodiac the war whoop of the young god who be afraid of nothing. at first he drag the song along unwillingly and then the song drag him and his voice roll across the field and the bull step to the tune and the cultivator bang his flank out of sheer light heartedness and the furrow roll away behind the plough more and more swiftly. then the girl come across the field look for leo and find him sing in the cane. she join her voice to his and the cultivator s wife bring her spin into the open and listen with all her child round her. when it be time for the nooning leo and the girl have sing themselves both thirsty and hungry but the cultivator and his wife give them rye bread and milk and many thank. and the bull find occasion to say. 
you have help me to do a full half field more than i should have do. but the hard part of the day be to come brother. 
leo wish to lie down and brood over the word of the crab. the girl go away to talk to the cultivator s wife and baby and the afternoon plough begin. 
help u now say the bull. the tide of the day be run down. my leg be very stiff. sing if you never sing before. 
to a mud spatter villager. say leo. 
he be under the same doom a ourselves. be you a coward. say the bull. 
leo flush and begin again with a sore throat and a bad temper. little by little he drop away from the song of the child and make up a song a he go along. and this be a thing he could never have do have he not meet the crab face to face. he remember fact concern cultivator and bullock and rice field that he have not particularly notice before the interview and he string them all together grow more interest a he sing and he tell the cultivator much more about himself and his work than the cultivator know. the bull grunt approval a he toil down the furrow for the last time that day and the song end leave the cultivator with a very good opinion of himself in his ache bone. the girl come out of the hut where she have be keep the child quiet and talk woman talk to the wife and they all eat the even meal together. 
now yours must be a very pleasant life say the cultivator. sit a you do on a dyke all day and sing just what come into your head. have you be at it long you two gipsy. 
ah. low the bull from his byre. that s all the thank you will ever get from men brother. 
no. we have only just begin it say the girl. but we be go to keep to it a long a we live. be we not leo. 
yes say he. and they go away hand in hand. 
you can sing beautifully leo say she a a wife will to her husband. 
what be you do. say he. 
i be talk to the mother and the baby she say. you would not understand the little thing that make u woman laugh. 
and and i be to go on with this this gipsy work. say leo. 
yes dear and i will help you. 
there be no write record of the life of leo and of the girl so we cannot tell how leo take to his new employment which he detest. we be only sure that the girl love him when and wherever he sing. even when after the song be do she go round with the equivalent of a tambourine and collect the penny for the daily bread. there be time too when it be leo s very hard task to console the girl for the indignity of horrible praise that people give him and her for the silly wag peacock feather that they stick in his cap and the button and piece of cloth that they sew on his coat. woman like she could advise and help to the end but the meanness of the mean revolt. 
what doe it matter leo would say so long a the song make them a little happy. and they would go down the road and begin again on the old old refrain that whatever come or do not come the child of men must not be afraid. it be heavy teach at first but in process of year leo discover that he could make men laugh and hold them listen to him even when the rain fell. yet there be people who would sit down and cry softly though the crowd be yell with delight and there be people who maintain that leo make them do this. and the girl would talk to them in the pause of the performance and do her best to comfort them. people would die too while leo be talk and sing and laugh. for the archer and the scorpion and the crab and the other house be a busy a ever. sometimes the crowd break and be frighten and leo strive to keep them steady by tell them that this be cowardly. and sometimes they mock at the house that be kill them and leo explain that this be even more cowardly than run away. 
in their wandering they come across the bull or the ram or the twin but all be too busy to do more than nod to each other across the crowd and go on with their work. a the year roll on even that recognition cease for the child of the zodiac have forget that they have ever be god work for the sake of men. the star aldebaran be crust with cake dirt on the bull s forehead the ram s fleece be dusty and tear and the twin be only baby fight over the cat on the door step. it be then that leo say let u stop sing and make joke. and it be then that the girl say no. but she do not know why she say no so energetically. leo maintain that it be perversity till she herself at the end of a dusty day make the same suggestion to him and he say most certainly not. and they quarrel miserably between the hedgerow forget the mean of the star above them. other singer and other talker spring up in the course of the year and leo forget that there could never be too many of these hat them for divide the applause of the child of men which he think should be all his own. the girl would grow angry too and then the song would be break and the jest fall flat for week to come and the child of men would shout. go home you two gipsy. go home and learn something worth sing. 
after one of these sorrowful shameful day the girl walk by leo s side through the field saw the full moon come up over the tree and she clutch leo s arm cry. the time ha come now. oh leo forgive me. 
what be it. say leo. he be think of the other singer. 
my husband. she answer and she lay his hand upon her breast and the breast that he know so well be hard a stone. leo groan remember what the crab have say. 
surely we be god once he cry. 
surely we be god still say the girl. do you not remember when you and i go to the house of the crab and be not very much afraid. and since then. we have forget what we be sing for we sing for the penny and oh we fight for them. we who be the child of the zodiac. 
it be my fault say leo. 
how can there be any fault of yours that be not mine too. say the girl. my time ha come but you will live long and. the look in her eye say all she could not say. 
yes i will remember that we be god say leo. 
it be very hard even for a child of the zodiac who ha forget his godhead to see his wife die slowly and to know that he cannot help her. the girl tell leo in those last month of all that she have say and do among the wife and the baby at the back of the roadside performance and leo be astonish that he know so little of her who have be so much to him. when she be die she tell him never to fight for penny or quarrel with the other singer. and above all to go on with his sing immediately after she be dead. 
then she die and after he have bury her he go down the road to a village that he know and the people hop that he would begin quarrel with a new singer that have spring up while he have be away. but leo call him my brother. the new singer be newly marry and leo know it and when he have finish sing leo straighten himself and sing the song of the girl which he have make come down the road. every man who be marry or hop to be marry whatever his rank or colour understand that song even the bride lean on the new husband s arm understand it too and presently when the song end and leo s heart be burst in him the men sob. that be a sad tale they say at last now make u laugh. because leo have know all the sorrow that a man could know include the full knowledge of his own fall who have once be a god he change his song quickly make the people laugh till they could laugh no more. they go away feel ready for any trouble in reason and they give leo more peacock feather and penny than he could count. know that penny lead to quarrel and that peacock feather be hateful to the girl he put them aside and go away to look for his brother to remind them that they too be god. 
he find the bull gore the undergrowth in a ditch for the scorpion have sting him and he be die not slowly a the girl have die but quickly. 
i know all the bull groan a leo come up. i have forget too but i remember now. go and look at the field i plough. the furrow be straight. i forget that i be a god but i draw the plough perfectly straight for all that. and you brother. 
i be not at the end of the plough say leo. doe death hurt. 
no. but die doe say the bull and he die. the cultivator who then own him be much annoy for there be a field still unploughed. 
it be after this that leo make the song of the bull who have be a god and forget the fact and he sing it in such a manner that half the young men in the world conceive that they too might be god without know it. a half of that half grow impossibly conceited and die early. a half of the remainder strive to be god and fail but the other half accomplish four time more work than they would have do under any other delusion. 
late year late always wander up and down and make the child of men laugh he find the twin sit on the bank of a stream wait for the fish to come and carry them away. they be not in the least afraid and they tell leo that the woman of the house have a real baby of her own and that when that baby grow old enough to be mischievous he would find a well educate cat wait to have it tail pull. then the fish come for them but all that the people saw be two child drown in a brook. and though their foster mother be very sorry she hug her own real baby to her breast and be grateful that it be only the foundling. 
then leo make the song of the twin who have forget that they be god and have play in the dust to amuse a foster mother. that song be sing far and wide among the woman. it cause them to laugh and cry and hug their baby close to their heart all in one breath. and some of the woman who remember the girl say. surely that be the voice of virgo. only she could know so much about ourselves. 
after those three song be make leo sing them over and over again till he be in danger of look upon them a so many mere word and the people who listen grow tire and there come back to leo the old temptation to stop sing once and for all. but he remember the girl s die word and go on. 
one of his listener interrupt him a he be sing. leo say he i have hear you tell u not to be afraid for the past forty year. can you not sing something new now. 
no say leo. it be the only song that i be allow to sing. you must not be afraid of the house even when they kill you. 
the man turn to go wearily but there come a whistle through the air and the arrow of the archer be see skim low above the earth point to the man s heart. he draw himself up and stand still wait till the arrow strike home. 
i die he say quietly. it be well for me leo that you sing for forty year. 
be you afraid. say leo bend over him. 
i be a man not a god say the man. i should have run away but for your song. my work be do and i die without make a show of my fear. 
i be very well pay say leo to himself. now that i see what my song be do i will sing good one. 
he go down the road collect his little knot of listener and begin the song of the girl. in the middle of his sing he felt the cold touch of the crab s claw on the apple of his throat. he lift his hand choke and stop for an instant. 
sing on leo say the crowd. the old song run a well a ever it do. 
leo go on steadily till the end with the cold fear at his heart. when his song be end he felt the grip on his throat tighten. he be old he have lose the girl he know that he be lose more than half his power to sing he could scarcely walk to the diminish crowd that wait for him and could not see their face when they stand about him. none the le he cry angrily to the crab. 
why have you come for me now. 
you be bear under my care. how can i help come for you. say the crab wearily. every human be whom the crab kill have ask that same question. 
but i be just begin to know what my song be do say leo. 
perhaps that be why say the crab and the grip tighten. 
you say you would not come till i have take the world by the shoulder gasp leo fall back. 
i always keep my word. you have do that three time with three song. what more do you desire. 
let me live to see the world know it plead leo. let me be sure that my song. 
make men brave. say the crab. even then there would be one man who be afraid. the girl be brave than you be. come. 
leo be stand close to the restless insatiable mouth. i forget say he simply. the girl be brave. but i be a god too and i be not afraid. 
what be that to me. say the crab. 
then leo s speech be take from him and he lay still and dumb watch death till he die. 
leo be the last of the child of the zodiac. after his death there spring up a breed of little mean men whimper and flinch and howl because the house kill them and theirs who wish to live forever without any pain. they do not increase their life but they increase their own torment miserably and there be no child of the zodiac to guide them and the great part of leo s song be lose. 
only he have carve on the girl s tombstone the last verse of the song of the girl which stand at the head of this story. 
one of the child of men come thousand of year late rub away the lichen read the line and apply them to a trouble other than the one leo mean. be a man men believe that he have make the verse himself. but they belong to leo the child of the zodiac and teach a he teach that what come or doe not come we must not be afraid. 
iii. 
the bridge builder. 
the least that findlayson of the public work department expect be a c. i. e. he dream of a c. s. i. indeed his friend tell him that he deserve more. for three year he have endure heat and cold disappointment discomfort danger and disease with responsibility almost too heavy for one pair of shoulder. and day by day through that time the great kashi bridge over the gang have grow under his charge. now in le than three month if all go well his excellency the viceroy would open the bridge in state an archbishop would bless it the first train load of soldier would come over it and there would be speech. 
findlayson c. e. sit in his trolley on a construction line that run along one of the main revetment the huge stone face bank that flare away north and south for three mile on either side of the river and permit himself to think of the end. with it approach his work be one mile and three quarter in length. a lattice girder bridge truss with the findlayson truss stand on seven and twenty brick pier. each one of those pier be twenty four foot in diameter cap with red agra stone and sink eighty foot below the shift sand of the gang bed. above them run the railway line fifteen foot broad. above that again a cart road of eighteen foot flank with footpath. at either end rise tower of red brick loopholed for musketry and pierce for big gun and the ramp of the road be be push forward to their haunch. the raw earth end be crawl and alive with hundred upon hundred of tiny ass climb out of the yawn borrow pit below with sackful of stuff. and the hot afternoon air be fill with the noise of hoof the rattle of the driver stick and the swish and roll down of the dirt. the river be very low and on the dazzle white sand between the three centre pier stand squat crib of railway sleeper fill within and daub without with mud to support the last of the girder a those be rivet up. in the little deep water leave by the drought an overhead crane travel to and fro along it spile pier jerk section of iron into place snort and back and grunt a an elephant grunt in the timber yard. riveter by the hundred swarm about the lattice side work and the iron roof of the railway line hang from invisible stag under the belly of the girder cluster round the throat of the pier and ride on the overhang of the footpath stanchion. their fire pot and the spurt of flame that answer each hammer stroke show no more than pale yellow in the sun s glare. east and west and north and south the construction train rattle and shriek up and down the embankment the pile truck of brown and white stone bang behind them till the side board be unpin and with a roar and a grumble a few thousand ton more material be throw out to hold the river in place. 
findlayson c. e. turn on his trolley and look over the face of the country that he have change for seven mile around. look back on the hum village of five thousand workman. up stream and down along the vista of spur and sand. across the river to the far pier lessen in the haze. overhead to the guard tower and only he know how strong those be and with a sigh of contentment saw that his work be good. there stand his bridge before him in the sunlight lack only a few week work on the girder of the three middle pier his bridge raw and ugly a original sin but pukka permanent to endure when all memory of the builder yea even of the splendid findlayson truss have perish. practically the thing be do. 
hitchcock his assistant canter along the line on a little switch tail kabuli pony who through long practice could have trot securely over a trestle and nod to his chief. 
all but say he with a smile. 
i ve be think about it the senior answer not half a bad job for two men be it. one and a half. gad what a cooper s hill cub i be when i come on the work. hitchcock felt very old in the crowd experience of the past three year that have teach him power and responsibility. 
you be rather a colt say findlayson. i wonder how you ll like go back to office work when this job s over. 
i shall hate it. say the young man and a he go on his eye follow findlayson s and he mutter be n t it good. 
i think we ll go up the service together findlayson say to himself. you re too good a youngster to waste on another man. cub thou wast. assistant thou art. personal assistant and at simla thou shalt be if any credit come to me out of the business. 
indeed the burden of the work have fall altogether on findlayson and his assistant the young man whom he have choose because of his rawness to break to his own need. there be labour contractor by the half hundred fitter and riveter european borrow from the railway workshop with perhaps twenty white and half caste subordinate to direct under direction the bevy of workman but none know good than these two who trust each other how the underling be not to be trust. they have be try many time in sudden crisis by slip of boom by break of tackle failure of crane and the wrath of the river but no stress have bring to light any man among them whom findlayson and hitchcock would have honour by work a remorselessly a they work themselves. findlayson think it over from the begin. the month of office work destroy at a blow when the government of india at the last moment add two foot to the width of the bridge under the impression that bridge be cut out of paper and so bring to ruin at least half an acre of calculation and hitchcock new to disappointment bury his head in his arm and weep. the heart break delay over the fill of the contract in england. the futile correspondence hint at great wealth of commission if one only one rather doubtful consignment be pass. the war that follow the refusal. the careful polite obstruction at the other end that follow the war till young hitchcock put one month s leave to another month and borrow ten day from findlayson spend his poor little saving of a year in a wild dash to london and there a his own tongue assert and the late consignment prove put the fear of god into a man so great that he fear only parliament and say so till hitchcock work with him across his own dinner table and he fear the kashi bridge and all who speak in it name. then there be the cholera that come in the night to the village by the bridge work. and after the cholera smite the small pox. the fever they have always with them. hitchcock have be appoint a magistrate of the third class with whip power for the good government of the community and findlayson watch him wield his power temperately learn what to overlook and what to look after. it be a long long reverie and it cover storm sudden freshet death in every manner and shape violent and awful rage against red tape half frenzying a mind that know it should be busy on other thing. drought sanitation finance. birth wed burial and riot in the village of twenty war caste. argument expostulation persuasion and the blank despair that a man go to bed upon thankful that his rifle be all in piece in the gun case. behind everything rise the black frame of the kashi bridge plate by plate girder by girder span by span and each pier of it recall hitchcock the all round man who have stand by his chief without fail from the very first to this last. so the bridge be two men s work unless one count peroo a peroo certainly count himself. he be a lascar a kharva from bulsar familiar with every port between rockhampton and london who have rise to the rank of serang on the british india boat but weary of routine muster and clean clothe have throw up the service and go inland where men of his calibre be sure of employment. for his knowledge of tackle and the handle of heavy weight peroo be worth almost any price he might have choose to put upon his service. but custom decree the wage of the overhead men and peroo be not within many silver piece of his proper value. neither run water nor extreme height make him afraid. and a an ex serang he know how to hold authority. no piece of iron be so big or so badly place that peroo could not devise a tackle to lift it a loose end sag arrangement rig with a scandalous amount of talk but perfectly equal to the work in hand. it be peroo who have save the girder of number seven pier from destruction when the new wire rope jam in the eye of the crane and the huge plate tilt in it sling threaten to slide out sideways. then the native workman lose their head with great shouting and hitchcock s right arm be break by a fall t plate and he button it up in his coat and swoon and come to and direct for four hour till peroo from the top of the crane report all s well and the plate swing home. there be no one like peroo serang to lash and guy and hold to control the donkey engine to hoist a fall locomotive craftily out of the borrow pit into which it have tumble. to strip and dive if need be to see how the concrete block round the pier stand the scour of mother gunga or to adventure up stream on a monsoon night and report on the state of the embankment facing. he would interrupt the field council of findlayson and hitchcock without fear till his wonderful english or his still more wonderful lingua franca_ half portuguese and half malay run out and he be force to take string and show the knot that he would recommend. he control his own gang of tacklemen mysterious relative from kutch mandvi gather month by month and try to the uttermost. no consideration of family or kin allow peroo to keep weak hand or a giddy head on the pay roll. my honour be the honour of this bridge he would say to the about to be dismiss. what do i care for your honour. go and work on a steamer. that be all you be fit for. 
the little cluster of hut where he and his gang live centre round the tattered dwell of a sea priest one who have never set foot on black water but have be choose a ghostly counsellor by two generation of sea rover all unaffected by port mission or those creed which be thrust upon sailor by agency along thames bank. the priest of the lascar have nothing to do with their caste or indeed with anything at all. he eat the offering of his church and sleep and smoke and sleep again for say peroo who have hale him a thousand mile inland he be a very holy man. he never care what you eat so long a you do not eat beef and that be good because on land we worship shiva we kharvas. but at sea on the kumpani s boat we attend strictly to the order of the burra malum. the first mate. and on this bridge we observe what finlinson sahib say. 
findlayson sahib have that day give order to clear the scaffold from the guard tower on the right bank and peroo with his mate be cast loose and lower down the bamboo pole and plank a swiftly a ever they have whip the cargo out of a coaster. 
from his trolley he could hear the whistle of the serang s silver pipe and the creak and clatter of the pulley. peroo be stand on the topmost cop of the tower clothe in the blue dungaree of his abandon service and a findlayson motion to him to be careful for his be no life to throw away he grip the last pole and shade his eye ship fashion answer with the long draw wail of the fo c sle lookout. _ham dekhta hai_. i be look out. findlayson laugh and then sigh. it be year since he have see a steamer and he be sick for home. a his trolley pass under the tower peroo descend by a rope ape fashion and cry. it look well now sahib. our bridge be all but do. what think you mother gunga will say when the rail run over. 
she ha say little so far. it be never mother gunga that delay u. 
there be always time for her. and none the le there ha be delay. ha the sahib forget last autumn s flood when the stone boat be sink without warn or only a half day s warn. 
yes but nothing save a big flood could hurt u now. the spur be hold well on the west bank. 
mother gunga eat great allowance. there be always room for more stone on the revetment. i tell this to the chota sahib he mean hitchcock and he laugh. 
no matter peroo. another year thou wilt be able to build a bridge in thine own fashion. 
the lascar grin. then it will not be in this way with stonework sink under water a the quetta be sink. i like sus sus pen sheen bridge that fly from bank to bank with one big step like a gang plank. then no water can hurt. when doe the lord sahib come to open the bridge. 
in three month when the weather be cool. 
ho. ho. he be like the burra malum. he sleep below while the work be be do. then he come upon the quarter deck and touch with his finger and say. this be not clean. jiboon wallah. 
but the lord sahib doe not call me a jiboon wallah peroo. 
no sahib. but he doe not come on deck till the work be all finish. even the burra malum of the nerbudda say once at tuticorin. 
bah. go. i be busy. 
i also. say peroo with an unshaken countenance. may i take the light dinghy now and row along the spur. 
to hold them with thy hand. they be i think sufficiently heavy. 
nay sahib. it be thus. at sea on the black water we have room to be blow up and down without care. here we have no room at all. look you we have put the river into a dock and run her between stone sill. 
findlayson smile at the we. 
we have bitted and bridle her. she be not like the sea that can beat against a soft beach. she be mother gunga in iron. his voice fell a little. 
peroo thou hast be up and down the world more even than i. speak true talk now. how much dost thou in thy heart believe of mother gunga. 
all that our priest say. london be london sahib. sydney be sydney and port darwin be port darwin. also mother gunga be mother gunga and when i come back to her bank i know this and worship. in london i do poojah to the big temple by the river for the sake of the god within. yes i will not take the cushion in the dinghy. 
findlayson mount his horse and trot to the shed of a bungalow that he share with his assistant. the place have become home to him in the last three year. he have grill in the heat sweat in the rain and shiver with fever under the rude thatch roof. the lime wash beside the door be cover with rough drawing and formulæ and the sentry path tread in the mat of the veranda show where he have walk alone. there be no eight hour limit to an engineer s work and the even meal with hitchcock be eat boot and spur. over their cigar they listen to the hum of the village a the gang come up from the river bed and the light begin to twinkle. 
peroo ha go up the spur in your dinghy. he s take a couple of nephew with him and he s loll in the stern like a commodore say hitchcock. 
that s all right. he s get something on his mind. you d think that ten year in the british india boat would have knock most of his religion out of him. 
so it ha say hitchcock chuckle. i over hear him the other day in the middle of a most atheistical talk with that fat old guru of theirs. peroo deny the efficacy of prayer. and want the guru to go to sea and watch a gale out with him and see if he could stop a monsoon. 
all the same if you carry off his guru he d leave u like a shoot. he be yarn away to me about pray to the dome of st. paul s when he be in london. 
he tell me that the first time he go into the engine room of a steamer when he be a boy he pray to the low pressure cylinder. 
not half bad a thing to pray to either. he s propitiate his own god now and he want to know what mother gunga will think of a bridge be run across her. who s there. a shadow darken the doorway and a telegram be put into hitchcock s hand. 
she ought to be pretty well use to it by this time. only a tar. it ought to be ralli s answer about the new rivet. great heaven. hitchcock jump to his foot. 
what be it. say the senior and take the form. _that s what mother gunga think be it he say read. keep cool young un. we ve get all our work cut out for u. let s see. muir wire half an hour ago. flood on the ramgunga. look out. well that give u one two nine and a half for the flood to reach melipur ghaut and seven s sixteen and a half to latodi say fifteen hour before it come down to u. 
curse that hill feed sewer of a ramgunga. findlayson this be two month before anything could have be expect and the leave bank be litter up with stuff still. two full month before the time. 
that s why it happen. i ve only know indian river for five and twenty year and i don t pretend to understand. here come another tar. findlayson open the telegram. cockran this time from the gang canal. heavy rain here. bad. he might have save the last word. well we don t want to know any more. we ve get to work the gang all night and clean up the river bed. you ll take the east bank and work out to meet me in the middle. get everything that float below the bridge. we shall have quite enough river craft come down adrift anyhow without let the stone boat ram the pier. what have you get on the east bank that need look after. 
pontoon one big pontoon with the overhead crane on it. t other overhead crane on the mend pontoon with the cart road rivet from twenty to twenty three pier two construction line and a turn spur. the pile work must take it chance say hitchcock. 
all right. roll up everything you can lay hand on. we ll give the gang fifteen minute more to eat their grub. 
close to the veranda stand a big night gong never use except for flood or fire in the village. hitchcock have call for a fresh horse and be off to his side of the bridge when findlayson take the cloth bind stick and smite with the rub stroke that bring out the full thunder of the metal. 
long before the last rumble cease every night gong in the village have take up the warn. to these be add the hoarse scream of conch in the little temple. the throb of drum and tom tom. and from the european quarter where the riveter live mccartney s bugle a weapon of offence on sunday and festival bray desperately call to stable. engine after engine toil home along the spur after her day s work whistle in answer till the whistle be answer from the far bank. then the big gong thunder thrice for a sign that it be flood and not fire. conch drum and whistle echo the call and the village quiver to the sound of bare foot run upon soft earth. the order in all case be to stand by the day s work and wait instruction. the gang pour by in the dusk. men stop to knot a loin cloth or fasten a sandal. gang foreman shout to their subordinate a they run or pause by the tool issue shed for bar and mattock. locomotive creep down their track wheel deep in the crowd till the brown torrent disappear into the dusk of the river bed race over the pile work swarm along the lattice cluster by the crane and stand still each man in his place. 
then the trouble beat of the gong carry the order to take up everything and bear it beyond high water mark and the flare lamp break out by the hundred between the web of dull iron a the riveter begin a night s work race against the flood that be to come. the girder of the three centre pier those that stand on the crib be all but in position. they need just a many rivet a could be drive into them for the flood would assuredly wash out the support and the ironwork would settle down on the cap of stone if they be not block at the end. a hundred crowbar strain at the sleeper of the temporary line that feed the unfinished pier. it be heave up in length load into truck and back up the bank beyond flood level by the groan locomotive. the tool shed on the sand melt away before the attack of shout army and with them go the stack rank of government store iron bind box of rivet plier cutter duplicate part of the rivet machine spare pump and chain. the big crane would be the last to be shift for she be hoist all the heavy stuff up to the main structure of the bridge. the concrete block on the fleet of stone boat be drop overside where there be any depth of water to guard the pier and the empty boat themselves be pole under the bridge down stream. it be here that peroo s pipe shrill loud for the first stroke of the big gong have bring aback the dinghy at race speed and peroo and his people be strip to the waist work for the honour and credit which be good than life. 
i know she would speak he cry. _i know but the telegraph give u good warn. o son of unthinkable beget child of unspeakable shame be we here for the look of the thing. it be two foot of wire rope fray at the end and it do wonder a peroo leap from gunnel to gunnel shout the language of the sea. 
findlayson be more trouble for the stone boat than anything else. mccartney with his gang be block up the end of the three doubtful span but boat adrift if the flood chance to be a high one might endanger the girder. and there be a very fleet in the shrink channel. 
get them behind the swell of the guard tower he shout down to peroo. it will be dead water there. get them below the bridge. 
_accha. [very good. ] i know. we be moor them with wire rope be the answer. hah. listen to the chota sahib. he be work hard. 
from across the river come an almost continuous whistle of locomotive back by the rumble of stone. hitchcock at the last minute be spend a few hundred more truck of tarakee stone in reinforce his spur and embankment. 
the bridge challenge mother gunga say peroo with a laugh. but when she talk i know whose voice will be the loud. 
for hour the naked men work scream and shout under the light. it be a hot moonless night. the end of it be darken by cloud and a sudden squall that make findlayson very grave. 
she move. say peroo just before the dawn. mother gunga be awake. hear. he dip his hand over the side of a boat and the current mumble on it. a little wave hit the side of a pier with a crisp slap. 
six hour before her time say findlayson mop his forehead savagely. now we can t depend on anything. we d good clear all hand out of the river bed. 
again the big gong beat and a second time there be the rush of naked foot on earth and ring iron. the clatter of tool cease. in the silence men hear the dry yawn of water crawl over thirsty sand. 
foreman after foreman shout to findlayson who have post himself by the guard tower that his section of the river bed have be clean out and when the last voice drop findlayson hurry over the bridge till the iron plat of the permanent way give place to the temporary plank walk over the three centre pier and there he meet hitchcock. 
all clear your side. say findlayson. the whisper ring in the box of latticework. 
yes and the east channel s fill now. we re utterly out of our reckon. when be this thing down on u. 
there s no say. she s fill a fast a she can. look. findlayson point to the plank below his foot where the sand burn and defile by month of work be begin to whisper and fizz. 
what order. say hitchcock. 
call the roll count store sit on your bunker and pray for the bridge. that s all i can think of. good night. don t risk your life try to fish out anything that may go down stream. 
oh i ll be a prudent a you be. night. heaven how she s fill. here s the rain in earnest. findlayson pick his way back to his bank sweep the last of mccartney s riveter before him. the gang have spread themselves along the embankment regardless of the cold rain of the dawn and there they wait for the flood. only peroo keep his men together behind the swell of the guard tower where the stone boat lay tie fore and aft with hawser wire rope and chain. 
a shrill wail run along the line grow to a yell half fear and half wonder. the face of the river whiten from bank to bank between the stone facing and the far away spur go out in spout of foam. mother gunga have come bank high in haste and a wall of chocolate colour water be her messenger. there be a shriek above the roar of the water the complaint of the span come down on their block a the crib be whirl out from under their belly. the stone boat groan and grind each other in the eddy that swing round the abutment and their clumsy mast rise high and high against the dim sky line. 
before she be shut between these wall we know what she would do. now she be thus cramp god only know what she will do. say peroo watch the furious turmoil round the guard tower. ohé. fight then. fight hard for it be thus that a woman wear herself out. 
but mother gunga would not fight a peroo desire. after the first down stream plunge there come no more wall of water but the river lift herself bodily a a snake when she drink in mid summer pluck and finger along the revetment and bank up behind the pier till even findlayson begin to recalculate the strength of his work. 
when day come the village gasp. only last night men say turn to each other it be a a town in the river bed. look now. 
and they look and wonder afresh at the deep water the race water that lick the throat of the pier. the farther bank be veil by rain into which the bridge run out and vanish. the spur up stream be mark by no more than eddy and spout and down stream the pen river once free of her guide line have spread like a sea to the horizon. then hurry by roll in the water dead men and ox together with here and there a patch of thatch roof that melt when it touch a pier. 
big flood say peroo and findlayson nod. it be a big a flood a he have any wish to watch. his bridge would stand what be upon her now but not very much more. and if by any of a thousand chance there happen to be a weakness in the embankment mother gunga would carry his honour to the sea with the other raffle. bad of all there be nothing to do except to sit still. and findlayson sit still under his macintosh till his helmet become pulp on his head and his boot be over ankle in mire. he take no count of time for the river be mark the hour inch by inch and foot by foot along the embankment and he listen numb and hungry to the strain of the stone boat the hollow thunder under the pier and the hundred noise that make the full note of a flood. once a drip servant bring him food but he could not eat. and once he think that he hear a faint toot from a locomotive across the river and then he smile. the bridge s failure would hurt his assistant not a little but hitchcock be a young man with his big work yet to do. for himself the crash mean everything everything that make a hard life worth the live. they would say the men of his own profession he remember the half pity thing that he himself have say when lockhart s big water work burst and break down in brick heap and sludge and lockhart s spirit break in him and he die. he remember what he himself have say when the sumao bridge go out in the big cyclone by the sea. and most he remember poor hartopp s face three week late when the shame have mark it. his bridge be twice the size of hartopp s and it carry the findlayson truss a well a the new pier shoe the findlayson bolt shoe. there be no excuse in his service. government might listen perhaps but his own kind would judge him by his bridge a that stand or fell. he go over it in his head plate by plate span by span brick by brick pier by pier remember compare estimate and recalculate l there should be any mistake. and through the long hour and through the night of formulæ that dance and wheel before him a cold fear would come to pinch his heart. his side of the sum be beyond question. but what man know mother gunga s arithmetic. even a he be make all sure by the multiplication table the river might be scoop pot hole to the very bottom of any one of those eighty foot pier that carry his reputation. again a servant come to him with food but his mouth be dry and he could only drink and return to the decimal in his brain. and the river be still rise. peroo in a mat shelter coat crouch at his foot watch now his face and now the face of the river but say nothing. 
at last the lascar rise and flounder through the mud toward the village but he be careful to leave an ally to watch the boat. 
presently he return most irreverently drive before him the priest of his creed a fat old man with a gray beard that whip the wind with the wet cloth that blow over his shoulder. never be see so lamentable a guru. 
what good be offering and little kerosene lamp and dry grain shout peroo if squat in the mud be all that thou canst do. thou hast deal long with the god when they be content and well wish. now they be angry. speak to them. 
what be a man against the wrath of god. whine the priest cower a the wind take him. let me go to the temple and i will pray there. 
son of a pig pray here. be there no return for salt fish and curry powder and dry onion. call aloud. tell mother gunga we have have enough. bid her be still for the night. i cannot pray but i have serve in the kumpani s boat and when men do not obey my order i a flourish of the wire rope colt round the sentence and the priest break from his disciple flee to the village. 
fat pig. say peroo. after all that we have do for him. when the flood be down i will see to it that we get a new guru. finlinson sahib it darken for night now and since yesterday nothing ha be eat. be wise sahib. no man can endure watch and great think on an empty belly. lie down sahib. the river will do what the river will do. 
the bridge be mine. i cannot leave it. 
wilt thou hold it up with thy hand then. say peroo laugh. i be trouble for my boat and sheer before the flood come. now we be in the hand of the god. the sahib will not eat and lie down. take these then. they be meat and good toddy together and they kill all weariness besides the fever that follow the rain. i have eat nothing else to day at all. 
he take a small tin tobacco box from his sodden waist belt and thrust it into findlayson s hand say nay do not be afraid. it be no more than opium clean malwa opium. 
findlayson shake two or three of the dark brown pellet into his hand and hardly know what he do swallow them. the stuff be at least a good guard against fever the fever that be creep upon him out of the wet mud and he have see what peroo could do in the stew mist of autumn on the strength of a dose from the tin box. 
peroo nod with bright eye. in a little in a little the sahib will find that he think well again. i too will he dive into his treasure box resettle the rain coat over his head and squat down to watch the boat. it be too dark now to see beyond the first pier and the night seem to have give the river new strength. findlayson stand with his chin on his chest think. there be one point about one of the pier the seventh that that he have not fully settle in his mind. the figure would not shape themselves to the eye except one by one and at enormous interval of time. there be a sound rich and mellow in his ear like the deep note of a double bass an entrance sound upon which he ponder for several hour a it seem. then peroo be at his elbow shout that a wire hawser have snap and the stone boat be loose. findlayson saw the fleet open and swing out fanwise to a long draw shriek of wire strain across gunnel. 
a tree hit them. they will all go cry peroo. the main hawser ha part. what doe the sahib do. 
an immensely complex plan have suddenly flash into findlayson s mind. he saw the rope run from boat to boat in straight line and angle each rope a line of white fire. but there be one rope which be the master rope. he could see that rope. if he could pull it once it be absolutely and mathematically certain that the disorder fleet would reassemble itself in the backwater behind the guard tower. but why he wonder be peroo cling so desperately to his waist a he hasten down the bank. it be necessary to put the lascar aside gently and slowly because it be necessary to save the boat and further to demonstrate the extreme ease of the problem that look so difficult. and then but it be of no conceivable importance a wire rope race through his hand burn it the high bank disappear and with it all the slowly disperse factor of the problem. he be sit in the rainy darkness sit in a boat that spin like a top and peroo be stand over him. 
i have forget say the lascar slowly that to those fast and unused the opium be bad than any wine. those who die in gunga go to the god. still i have no desire to present myself before such great one. can the sahib swim. 
what need. he can fly fly a swiftly a the wind be the thick answer. 
he be mad. mutter peroo under his breath. and he throw me aside like a bundle of dung cake. well he will not know his death. the boat cannot live an hour here even if she strike nothing. it be not good to look at death with a clear eye. 
he refresh himself again from the tin box squat down in the bow of the reel peg and stitch craft star through the mist at the nothing that be there. a warm drowsiness creep over findlayson the chief engineer whose duty be with his bridge. the heavy raindrop strike him with a thousand tingle little thrill and the weight of all time since time be make hang heavy on his eyelid. he think and perceive that he be perfectly secure for the water be so solid that a man could surely step out upon it and stand still with his leg apart to keep his balance this be the most important point would be bear with great and easy speed to the shore. but yet a good plan come to him. it need only an exertion of will for the soul to hurl the body ashore a wind drive paper. to waft it kite fashion to the bank. thereafter the boat spin dizzily suppose the high wind get under the free body. would it tower up like a kite and pitch headlong on the far away sand or would it duck about beyond control through all eternity. findlayson grip the gunnel to anchor himself for it seem that he be on the edge of take the flight before he have settle all his plan. opium ha more effect on the white man than the black. peroo be only comfortably indifferent to accident. she cannot live he grunt. her seam open already. if she be even a dinghy with oar we could have ride it out. but a box with hole be no good. finlinson sahib she fill. 
_accha. i be go away. come thou also. 
in his mind findlayson have already escape from the boat and be circle high in air to find a rest for the sole of his foot. his body he be really sorry for it gross helplessness lay in the stern the water rush about it knee. 
how very ridiculous. he say to himself from his eyrie. that be findlayson chief of the kashi bridge. the poor beast be go to be drown too. drown when it s close to shore. i m i m on shore already. why doe n t it come along. 
to his intense disgust he find his soul back in his body again and that body splutter and choke in deep water. the pain of the reunion be atrocious but it be necessary also to fight for the body. he be conscious of grasp wildly at wet sand and stride prodigiously a one stride in a dream to keep foothold in the swirl water till at last he haul himself clear of the hold of the river and drop pant on wet earth. 
not this night say peroo in his ear. the god have protect u. the lascar move his foot cautiously and they rustle among dry stump. this be some island of last year s indigo crop he go on. we shall find no men here. but have great care sahib. all the snake of a hundred mile have be flood out. here come the lightning on the heel of the wind. now we shall be able to look. but walk carefully. 
findlayson be far and far beyond any fear of snake or indeed any merely human emotion. he saw after he have rub the water from his eye with an immense clearness and tread so it seem to himself with world encompass stride. somewhere in the night of time he have build a bridge a bridge that span illimitable level of shin sea. but the deluge have sweep it away leave this one island under heaven for findlayson and his companion sole survivor of the breed of man. 
an incessant lightning fork and blue show all that there be to be see on the little patch in the flood a clump of thorn a clump of sway creak bamboo and a gray gnarl peepul over shadow a hindoo shrine from whose dome float a tattered red flag. the holy man whose summer rest place it be have long since abandon it and the weather have break the red daub image of his god. the two men stumble heavy limbed and heavy eye over the ash of a brick set cook place and drop down under the shelter of the branch while the rain and river roar together. 
the stump of the indigo crackle and there be a smell of cattle a a huge and drip brahminee bull shoulder his way under the tree. the flash reveal the trident mark of shiva on his flank the insolence of head and hump the luminous stag like eye the brow crown with a wreath of sodden marigold bloom and the silky dewlap that night sweep the grind. there be a noise behind him of other beast come up from the flood line through the thicket a sound of heavy foot and deep breathe. 
here be more beside ourselves say findlayson his head against the tree pole look through half shut eye wholly at ease. 
truly say peroo thickly and no small one. 
what be they then. i do not see clearly. 
the god. who else. look. 
ah true. the god surely the god. findlayson smile a his head fell forward on his chest. peroo be eminently right. after the flood who should be alive in the land except the god that make it the god to whom his village pray nightly the god who be in all men s mouth and about all men s way. he could not raise his head or stir a finger for the trance that hold him and peroo be smile vacantly at the lightning. 
the bull pause by the shrine his head lower to the damp earth. a green parrot in the branch preen his wet wing and scream against the thunder a the circle under the tree fill with the shift shadow of beast. there be a black buck at the bull s heel such a buck a findlayson in his far away life upon earth might have see in dream a buck with a royal head ebon back silver belly and gleam straight horn. beside him her head bow to the grind the green eye burn under the heavy brow with restless tail switch the dead grass pace a tigress full belly and deep jowled. 
the bull crouch beside the shrine and there leap from the darkness a monstrous gray ape who seat himself man wise in the place of the fall image and the rain spill like jewel from the hair of his neck and shoulder. 
other shadow come and go behind the circle among them a drunken man flourish staff and drink bottle. then a hoarse bellow break out from near the grind. the flood lessen even now it cry. hour by hour the water fall and their bridge still stand. 
my bridge say findlayson to himself. that must be very old work now. what have the god to do with my bridge. 
his eye roll in the darkness follow the roar. a crocodile the blunt nose ford haunt mugger of the gang draggle herself before the beast lash furiously to right and leave with her tail. 
they have make it too strong for me. in all this night i have only tear away a handful of plank. the wall stand. the tower stand. they have chain my flood and my river be not free any more. heavenly one take this yoke away. give me clear water between bank and bank. it be i mother gunga that speak. the justice of the god. deal me the justice of the god. 
what say i. whisper peroo. this be in truth a punchayet of the god. now we know that all the world be dead save you and i sahib. 
the parrot scream and flutter again and the tigress her ear flat to her head snarl wickedly. 
somewhere in the shadow a great trunk and gleam tusk sway to and fro and a low gurgle break the silence that follow on the snarl. 
we be here say a deep voice the great one. one only and very many. shiv my father be here with indra. kali ha speak already. hanuman listen also. 
kashi be without her kotwal to night shout the man with the drink bottle fling his staff to the grind while the island ring to the bay of hound. give her the justice of the god. 
ye be still when they pollute my water the great crocodile bellow. ye make no sign when my river be trap between the wall. i have no help save my own strength and that fail the strength of mother gunga fail before their guard tower. what could i do. i have do everything. finish now heavenly one. 
i bring the death. i ride the spot sickness from hut to hut of their workman and yet they would not cease. a nose slitten hide wear as lame scissor legged and gall limp forward. i cast the death at them out of my nostril but they would not cease. 
peroo would have move but the opium lay heavy upon him. 
bah. he say spit. here be sitala herself. mata the small pox. ha the sahib a handkerchief to put over his face. 
small help. they feed me the corps for a month and i fling them out on my sand bar but their work go forward. demon they be and so son of demon. and ye leave mother gunga alone for their fire carriage to make a mock of. the justice of the god on the bridge builder. 
the bull turn the cud in his mouth and answer slowly if the justice of the god catch all who make a mock of holy thing there would be many dark altar in the land mother. 
but this go beyond a mock say the tigress dart forward a grip paw. thou knowest shiv and ye too heavenly one. ye know that they have defile gunga. surely they must come to the destroyer. let indra judge. 
the buck make no movement a he answer how long ha this evil be. 
three year a men count year say the mugger close press to the earth. 
doe mother gunga die then in a year that she be so anxious to see vengeance now. the deep sea be where she run but yesterday and to morrow the sea shall cover her again a the god count that which men call time. can any say that this their bridge endure till to morrow. say the buck. 
there be a long hush and in the clear of the storm the full moon stand up above the drip tree. 
judge ye then say the river sullenly. i have speak my shame. the flood fall still. i can do no more. 
for my own part it be the voice of the great ape seat within the shrine it plea me well to watch these men remember that i also build no small bridge in the world s youth. 
they say too snarl the tiger that these men come of the wreck of thy army hanuman and therefore thou hast aid. 
they toil a my army toil in lanka and they believe that their toil endure. indra be too high but shiv thou knowest how the land be thread with their fire carriage. 
yea i know say the bull. their god instruct them in the matter. 
a laugh run round the circle. 
their god. what should their god know. they be bear yesterday and those that make them be scarcely yet cold say the mugger. to morrow their god will die. 
ho. say peroo. mother gunga talk good talk. i tell that to the padre sahib who preach on the mombassa_ and he ask the burra malum to put me in iron for a great rudeness. 
surely they make these thing to please their god say the bull again. 
not altogether the elephant roll forth. it be for the profit of my mahajuns my fat money lender that worship me at each new year when they draw my image at the head of the account book. i look over their shoulder by lamplight see that the name in the book be those of men in far place for all the town be draw together by the fire carriage and the money come and go swiftly and the account book grow a fat a myself. and i who be ganesh of good luck i bless my people. 
they have change the face of the land which be my land. they have kill and make new town on my bank say the mugger. 
it be but the shift of a little dirt. let the dirt dig in the dirt if it plea the dirt answer the elephant. 
but afterward. say the tiger. afterward they will see that mother gunga can avenge no insult and they fall away from her first and late from u all one by one. in the end ganesh we be leave with naked altar. 
the drunken man stagger to his foot and hiccup vehemently in the face of the assemble god. 
kali lie. my sister lie. also this my stick be the kotwal of kashi and he keep tally of my pilgrim. when the time come to worship bhairon and it be always time the fire carriage move one by one and each bear a thousand pilgrim. they do not come afoot any more but roll upon wheel and my honour be increase. 
gunna i have see thy bed at pryag black with the pilgrim say the ape lean forward and but for the fire carriage they would have come slowly and in few number. remember. 
they come to me always bhairon go on thickly. by day and night they pray to me all the common people in the field and the road. who be like bhairon to day. what talk be this of change faith. be my staff kotwal of kashi for nothing. he keep the tally and he say that never be so many altar a to day and the fire carriage serf them well. bhairon be i bhairon of the common people and the chief of the heavenly one to day. also my staff say. 
peace thou. low the bull. the worship of the school be mine and they talk very wisely ask whether i be one or many a be the delight of my people and ye know what i be. kali my wife thou knowest also. 
yea i know say the tigress with lower head. 
great be i than gunga also. for ye know who move the mind of men that they should count gunga holy among the river. who die in that water ye know how men say come to u without punishment and gunga know that the fire carriage ha bear to her score upon score of such anxious one. and kali know that she ha hold her chief festival among the pilgrimage that be feed by the fire carriage. who smite at pooree under the image there her thousand in a day and a night and bind the sickness to the wheel of the fire carriage so that it run from one end of the land to the other. who but kali. before the fire carriage come it be a heavy toil. the fire carriage have serve thee well mother of death. but i speak for mine own altar who be not bhairon of the common folk but shiv. men go to and fro make word and tell talk of strange god and i listen. faith follow faith among my people in the school and i have no anger. for when the word be say and the new talk be end to shiv men return at the last. 
true. it be true murmur hanuman. to shiv and to the others mother they return. i creep from temple to temple in the north where they worship one god and his prophet. and presently my image be alone within their shrine. 
small thank say the buck turn his head slowly. i be that one and his prophet also. 
even so father say hanuman. and to the south i go who be the old of the god a men know the god and presently i touch the shrine of the new faith and the woman whom we know be hew twelve arm and still they call her mary. 
small thank brother say the tigress. i be that woman. 
even so sister. and i go west among the fire carriage and stand before the bridge builder in many shape and because of me they change their faith and be very wise. ho. ho. i be the builder of bridge indeed bridge between this and that and each bridge lead surely to u in the end. be content gunga. neither these men nor those that follow them mock thee at all. 
be i alone then heavenly one. shall i smooth out my flood l unhappily i bear away their wall. will indra dry my spring in the hill and make me crawl humbly between their wharf. shall i bury me in the sand ere i offend. 
and all for the sake of a little iron bar with the fire carriage atop. truly mother gunga be always young. say ganesh the elephant. a child have not speak more foolishly. let the dirt dig in the dirt ere it return to the dirt. i know only that my people grow rich and praise me. shiv ha say that the men of the school do not forget. bhairon be content for his crowd of the common people. and hanuman laugh. 
surely i laugh say the ape. my altar be few beside those of ganesh or bhairon but the fire carriage bring me new worshipper from beyond the black water the men who believe that their god be toil. i run before them beckon and they follow hanuman. 
give them the toil that they desire then say the river. make a bar across my flood and throw the water back upon the bridge. once thou wast strong in lanka hanuman. stoop and lift my bed. 
who give life can take life. the ape scratch in the mud with a long forefinger. and yet who would profit by the kill. very many would die. 
there come up from the water a snatch of a love song such a the boy sing when they watch their cattle in the noon heat of late spring. the parrot scream joyously sidle along his branch with lower head a the song grow loud and in a patch of clear moonlight stand reveal the young herd the darling of the gopis the idol of dream maid and of mother ere their child be bear krishna the well beloved. he stoop to knot up his long wet hair and the parrot flutter to his shoulder. 
fleet and sing and sing and fleet hiccup bhairon. those make thee late for the council brother. 
and then. say krishna with a laugh throw back his head. ye can do little without me or karma here. he fondle the parrot s plumage and laugh again. what be this sit and talk together. i hear mother gunga roar in the dark and so come quickly from a hut where i lay warm. and what have ye do to karma that he be so wet and silent. and what doe mother gunga here. be the heaven full that ye must come paddle in the mud beast wise. karma what do they do. 
gunga ha pray for a vengeance on the bridge builder and kali be with her. now she bid hanuman whelm the bridge that her honour may be make great cry the parrot. i wait here know that thou wouldst come o my master. 
and the heavenly one say nothing. do gunga and the mother of sorrow out talk them. do none speak for my people. 
nay say ganesh move uneasily from foot to foot. i say it be but dirt at play and why should we stamp it flat. 
i be content to let them toil well content say hanuman. 
what have i to do with gunga s anger. say the bull. 
i be bhairon of the common folk and this my staff be kotwal of all kashi. i speak for the common people. 
thou. the young god s eye sparkle. 
be i not the first of the god in their mouth to day. return bhairon unabashed. for the sake of the common people i say very many wise thing which i have now forget but this my staff. 
krishna turn impatiently saw the mugger at his foot and kneel slip an arm round the cold neck. mother he say gently get thee to thy flood again. the matter be not for thee. what harm shall thy honour take of this live dirt. thou hast give them their field new year after year and by thy flood they be make strong. they come all to thee at the last. what need to slay them now. have pity mother for a little and it be only for a little. 
if it be only for a little the slow beast begin. 
be they god then. krishna return with a laugh his eye look into the dull eye of the river. be certain that it be only for a little. the heavenly one have hear thee and presently justice will be do. go now mother to the flood again. men and cattle be thick on the water the bank fall the village melt because of thee. 
but the bridge the bridge stand. the mugger turn grunt into the undergrowth a krishna rise. 
it be end say the tigress viciously. there be no more justice from the heavenly one. ye have make shame and sport of gunga who ask no more than a few score life. 
of my people who lie under the leaf roof of the village yonder of the young girl and the young men who sing to them say krishna. and when all be do what profit. to morrow see them at work. ay if ye sweep the bridge out from end to end they would begin anew. hear me. bhairon be drink always. hanuman mock his people with new riddle. 
nay but they be very old one the ape say laugh. 
shiv hear the talk of the school and the dream of the holy men. ganesh think only of his fat trader. but i i live with these my people ask for no gift and so receive them hourly. 
and very tender art thou of thy people say the tigress. 
they be my own. the old woman dream of me turn in their sleep. the maid look and listen for me when they go to fill their lotahs by the river. i walk by the young men wait without the gate at dusk and i call over my shoulder to the white beard. ye know heavenly one that i alone of u all walk upon the earth continually and have no pleasure in our heaven so long a a green blade spring here or there be two voice at twilight in the stand crop. wise be ye but ye live far off forget whence ye come. so do i not forget. and the fire carriage feed your shrine ye say. and the fire carriage bring a thousand pilgrimage where but ten come in the old year. true. that be true to day. 
but to morrow they be dead brother say ganesh. 
peace. say the bull a hanuman lean forward again. and to morrow beloved what of to morrow. 
this only. a new word creep from mouth to mouth among the common folk a word that neither man nor god can lay hold of an evil word a little lazy word among the common folk say. and none know who set that word afoot. that they weary of ye heavenly one. 
the god laugh together softly. and then beloved. they say. 
and to cover that weariness they my people will bring to thee shiv and to thee ganesh at first great offering and a loud noise of worship. but the word ha go abroad and after they will pay few due to your fat brahmin. next they will forget your altar but so slowly that no man can say how his forgetfulness begin. 
i know i know. i speak this also but they would not hear say the tigress. we should have slay we should have slay. 
it be too late now. ye should have slay at the begin when the men from across the water have teach our folk nothing. now my people see their work and go away think. they do not think of the heavenly one altogether. they think of the fire carriage and the other thing that the bridge builder have do and when your priest thrust forward hand ask alms they give unwillingly a little. that be the begin among one or two or five or ten for i move among my people know what be in their heart. 
and the end jester of the god. what shall the end be. say ganesh. 
the end shall be a it be in the begin o slothful son of shiv. the flame shall die upon the altar and the prayer upon the tongue till ye become little god again god of the jungle name that the hunter of rat and noosers of dog whisper in the thicket and among the cave rag god pot godlings of the tree and the village mark a ye be at the begin. that be the end ganesh for thee and for bhairon bhairon of the common people. 
it be very far away grunt bhairon. also it be a lie. 
many woman have kiss krishna. they tell him this to cheer their own heart when the gray hair come and he ha tell u the tale say the bull below his breath. 
their god come and we change them. i take the woman and make her twelve arm. so shall we twist all their god say hanuman. 
their god. this be no question of their god one or three man or woman. the matter be with the people. they move and not the god of the bridge builder say krishna. 
so be it. i have make a man worship the fire carriage a it stand still breathe smoke and he know not that he worship me say hanuman the ape. they will only change a little the name of their god. i shall lead the builder of the bridge a of old. shiv shall be worship in the school by such a doubt and despise their fellow. ganesh shall have his mahajuns and bhairon the donkey driver the pilgrim and the seller of toy. beloved they will do no more than change the name and that we have see a thousand time. 
surely they will do no more than change the name echo ganesh. but there be an uneasy movement among the god. 
they will change more than the name. me alone they cannot kill so long a maiden and man meet together or the spring follow the winter rain. heavenly one not for nothing have i walk upon the earth. my people know not now what they know. but i who live with them i read their heart. great king the begin of the end be bear already. the fire carriage shout the name of new god that be not the old under new name. drink now and eat greatly. bathe your face in the smoke of the altar before they grow cold. take due and listen to the cymbal and the drum heavenly one while yet there be flower and song. a men count time the end be far off. but a we who know reckon it be to day. i have speak. 
the young god cease and his brother look at each other long in silence. 
this i have not hear before peroo whisper in his companion s ear. and yet sometimes when i oil the brass in the engine room of the goorkha_ i have wonder if our priest be so wise so wise. the day be come sahib. they will be go by the morning. 
a yellow light broaden in the sky and the tone of the river change a the darkness withdraw. 
suddenly the elephant trumpet aloud a though men have goad him. 
let indra judge. father of all speak thou. what of the thing we have hear. ha krishna lie indeed. or. 
ye know say the buck rise to his foot. ye know the riddle of the god. when brahm cease to dream the heaven and the hell and earth disappear. be content. brahm dream still. the dream come and go and the nature of the dream change but still brahm dream. krishna ha walk too long upon earth and yet i love him the more for the tale he ha tell. the god change beloved all save one. 
ay all save one that make love in the heart of men say krishna knot his girdle. it be but a little time to wait and ye shall know if i lie. 
truly it be but a little time a thou sayest and we shall know. get thee to thy hut again beloved and make sport for the young thing for still brahm dream. go my child. brahm dream and till he wake the god die not. 
* * * * *. 
whither go they. say the lascar awe strike shiver a little with the cold. 
god know. say findlayson. the river and the island lay in full daylight now and there be never mark of hoof or pug on the wet earth under the peepul. only a parrot scream in the branch bring down shower of water drop a he flutter his wing. 
up. we be cramp with cold. ha the opium die out. canst thou move sahib. 
findlayson stagger to his foot and shake himself. his head swim and ache but the work of the opium be over and a he sluice his forehead in a pool the chief engineer of the kashi bridge be wonder how he have manage to fall upon the island what chance the day offer of return and above all how his work stand. 
peroo i have forget much. i be under the guard tower watch the river. and then do the flood sweep u away. 
no. the boat break loose sahib and. if the sahib have forget about the opium decidedly peroo would not remind him. in strive to retie them so it seem to me but it be dark a rope catch the sahib and throw him upon a boat. consider that we two with hitchcock sahib build a it be that bridge i come also upon the boat which come rid on horseback a it be on the nose of this island and so split cast u ashore. i make a great cry when the boat leave the wharf and without doubt hitchcock sahib will come for u. a for the bridge so many have die in the build that it cannot fall. 
a fierce sun that draw out all the smell of the sodden land have follow the storm and in that clear light there be no room for a man to think of dream of the dark. findlayson star up stream across the blaze of move water till his eye ache. there be no sign of any bank to the gang much le of a bridge line. 
we come down far he say. it be wonderful that we be not drown a hundred time. 
that be the least of the wonder for no man dy before his time. i have see sydney i have see london and twenty great port but peroo look at the damp discolour shrine under the peepul never man ha see that we saw here. 
what. 
ha the sahib forget. or do we black men only see the god. 
there be a fever upon me. findlayson be still look uneasily across the water. it seem that the island be full of beast and men talk but i do not remember. a boat could live in this water now i think. 
oho. then it be true. when brahm cease to dream the god die. now i know indeed what he mean. once too the guru say a much to me. but then i do not understand. now i be wise. 
what. say findlayson over his shoulder. 
peroo go on a if he be talk to himself. six seven ten monsoon since i be watch on the fo c sle of the rewah the kumpani s big boat and there be a big tufan_ green and black water beat. and i hold fast to the life line choke under the water. then i think of the god of those whom we saw to night he star curiously at findlayson s back but the white man be look across the flood. yes i say of those whom we saw this night past and i call upon them to protect me. and while i pray still keep my lookout a big wave come and throw me forward upon the ring of the great black bow anchor and the rewah rise high and high lean toward the leave hand side and the water draw away from beneath her nose and i lay upon my belly hold the ring and look down into those great deep. then i think even in the face of death if i lose hold i die and for me neither the rewah nor my place by the galley where the rice be cook nor bombay nor calcutta nor even london will be any more for me. how shall i be sure i say that the god to whom i pray will abide at all. this i think and the rewah drop her nose a a hammer fall and all the sea come in and slide me backward along the fo c sle and over the break of the fo c sle and i very badly bruise my shin against the donkey engine. but i do not die and i have see the god. they be good for live men but for the dead they have speak themselves. therefore when i come to the village i will beat the guru for talk riddle which be no riddle. when brahm cease to dream the god go. 
look up stream. the light blind. be there smoke yonder. 
peroo shade his eye with his hand. he be a wise man and quick. hitchcock sahib would not trust a rowboat. he ha borrow the rao sahib s steam launch and come to look for u. i have always say that there should have be a steam launch on the bridge work for u. 
the territory of the rao of baraon lay within ten mile of the bridge. and findlayson and hitchcock have spend a fair portion of their scanty leisure in play billiards and shoot black buck with the young man. he have be bear lead by an english tutor of sport taste for some five or six year and be now royally waste the revenue accumulate during his minority by the indian government. his steam launch with it silver plat rail strip silk awning and mahogany deck be a new toy which findlayson have find horribly in the way when the rao come to look at the bridge work. 
it s great luck murmur findlayson but he be none the le afraid wonder what news might be of the bridge. 
the gaudy blue and white funnel come down stream swiftly. they could see hitchcock in the bow with a pair of opera glass and his face be unusually white. then peroo hail and the launch make for the tail of the island. the rao sahib in tweed shoot suit and a seven hue turban wave his royal hand and hitchcock shout. but he need have ask no question for findlayson s first demand be for his bridge. 
all serene. gad i never expect to see you again findlayson. you re seven kos down stream. yes there s not a stone shift anywhere. but how be you. i borrow the rao sahib s launch and he be good enough to come along. jump in. 
ah finlinson you be very well eh. that be most unprecedented calamity last night eh. my royal palace too it leak like the devil and the crop will also be short all about my country. now you shall back her out hitchcock. i i do not understand steam engine. you be wet. you be cold finlinson. i have some thing to eat here and you will take a good drink. 
i m immensely grateful rao sahib. i believe you ve save my life. how do hitchcock. 
oho. his hair be upon end. he ride to me in the middle of the night and wake me up in the arm of morphus. i be most truly concern finlinson so i come too. my head priest he be very angry just now. we will go quick mister hitchcock. i be due to attend at twelve forty five in the state temple where we sanctify some new idol. if not so i would have ask you to spend the day with me. they be dam bore these religious ceremony finlinson eh. 
peroo well know to the crew have possess himself of the wheel and be take the launch craftily up stream. but while he steer he be in his mind handle two foot of partially untwist wire rope. and the back upon which he beat be the back of his guru. 
iv. 
the miracle. 
i send a message to my dear a thousand league and more to her the dumb sea level thrill to hear and lose atlantis bore to her. 
behind my message hard i come and nigh have find a grave for me. but that i launch of steel and flame do war against the wave for me. 
uprise the deep by gale on gale to bid me change my mind again he break his teeth along my rail and roar swing behind again. 
i stay the sun at noon to tell my way across the waste of it. i read the storm before it fell and make the good haste of it. 
afar i hail the land at night the tower i build have hear of me and ere my rocket reach it height have flash my love the word of me. 
earth give her choose men of strength. they live and strive and die for me. to drive my road a nation s length and toss the mile aside for me. 
i snatch their toil to serve my need too slow their fleet fly for me i tire twenty smoke steed and bid them bait a new for me. 
i send the lightning forth to see where hour by hour she wait me. among ten million one be she and surely all men hat me. 
dawn run to meet u at my goal ah day no tongue shall tell again. and little folk of little soul rise up to buy and sell again. 
v. 
our lady of the snow. 

canadian preferential tariff. 
a nation speak to a nation. a queen send word to a throne. daughter be i in my mother s house but mistress in my own. the gate be mine to open a the gate be mine to close and i set my house in order say our lady of the snow. 
neither with laughter nor weep fear or the child s amaze soberly under the white man s law my white men go their way. not for the gentile clamour insult or threat of blow bow we the knee to baal say our lady of the snow. 
my speech be clean and single i talk of common thing word of the wharf and the market place and the ware the merchant bring. favour to those i favour but a stumble block to my foe. many there be that hate u say our lady of the snow. 
i call my chief to council in the din of a trouble year. for the sake of a sign ye would not see and a word ye would not hear. this be our message and answer. this be the path we choose. for we be also a people say our lady of the snow. 
carry the word to my sister to the queen of the east and the south i have prove faith in the heritage by more than the word of the mouth. they that be wise may follow ere the world s war trumpet blow but i i be first in the battle say our lady of the snow. 
a nation speak to a nation a throne send word to a throne. daughter be i in my mother s house but mistress in my own. the gate be mine to open a the gate be mine to close and i abide by my mother s house say our lady of the snow. 
vi. 
the song of the woman. 
lady dufferin s fund for medical aid to the woman of india. 
how shall she know the worship we would do her. the wall be high and she be very far. how shall the woman s message reach unto her above the tumult of the pack bazaar. free wind of march against the lattice blow bear thou our thank l she depart unknowing. 
go forth across the field we may not roam in go forth beyond the tree that rim the city to whatsoe er fair place she hath her home in who dower u with wealth of love and pity. out of our shadow pas and seek her sing i have no gift but love alone for bring. 
say that we be a feeble folk who greet her but old in grief and very wise in tear. say that we be desolate entreat her that she forget u not in after year. for we have see the light and it be grievous to dim that dawn if our lady leave u. 
by life that ebb with none to stanch the fail by love s sad harvest garner in the spring when love in ignorance weep unavailing o er young bud dead before their blossom. by all the gray owl watch the pale moon view in past grim year declare our gratitude. 
by hand uplift to the god that hear not by gift that find no favour in their sight by face bend above the babe that stir not by nameless horror of the stifle night. by ill foredone by peace her toil discover bid earth be good beneath and heaven above her. 
if she have send her servant in our pain if she have fight with death and dull his sword. if she have give back our sick again and to the breast the weakling lip restore be it a little thing that she ha work. then life and death and motherhood be naught. 
go forth oh wind our message on thy wing and they shall hear thee pas and bid thee speed in red roof hut or white wall home of king who have be help by her in their need. all spring shall give thee fragrance and the wheat shall be a tasselled floor cloth to thy foot. 
haste for our heart be with thee take no rest loud voice ambassador from sea to sea proclaim the bless manifold confest of those in darkness by her hand set free. then very softly to her presence move and whisper. lady lo they know and love. 
vii. 
the white man s burden. 

take up the white man s burden send forth the best ye breed go bind your son to exile to serve your captive need. to wait in heavy harness on flutter folk and wild your new catch sullen people half devil and half child. 
take up the white man s burden in patience to abide to veil the threat of terror and check the show of pride. by open speech and simple an hundred time make plain to seek another s profit and work another s gain. 
take up the white man s burden the savage war of peace fill full the mouth of famine and bid the sickness cease. and when your goal be near the end for others seek watch sloth and heathen folly bring all your hope to naught. 
take up the white man s burden no tawdry rule of king but toil of serf and sweeper the tale of common thing. the port ye shall not enter the road ye shall not tread go make them with your live and mark them with your dead. 
take up the white man s burden and reap his old reward. the blame of those ye good the hate of those ye guard the cry of host ye humour. ah slowly. toward the light. why bring ye u from bondage our love egyptian night. 
take up the white man s burden ye dare not stoop to le nor call too loud on freedom to cloak your weariness. by all ye cry or whisper by all ye leave or do the silent sullen people shall weigh your god and you. 
take up the white man s burden have do with childish day the lightly proffer laurel the easy ungrudged praise. come now to search your manhood through all the thankless year cold edge with dear buy wisdom the judgment of your peer. 
* * * * *. 
