sea warfare. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
macmillan and co. limit st. martin s street london. 
content. 
page. 
the fringe of the fleet. 
tale of the trade. 
destroyer at jutland. 
the fringe of the fleet. 

in lowestoft a boat be lay mark well what i do say. and she be build for the herring trade but she ha go a rovin a rovin a rovin the lord know where. 
they give her government coal to burn and a q. f. gun at bow and stern and send her out a rovin etc. 
her skipper be mate of a bucko ship which always kill one man per trip so he be use to rovin etc. 
her mate be skipper of a chapel in wale and so he fight in topper and tail religi ous tho rovin etc. 
her engineer be fifty eight so he s prepare to meet his fate which ain t unlikely rovin etc. 
her lead stoker s seventeen so he don t know what the judgment mean unless he cop em rovin etc. 
her cook be chef in the lose dog home mark well what i do say. and i m sorry for fritz when they all come a rovin a rovin a roarin and a rovin round the north sea rovin the lord know where. 
the auxiliary. 
i. 
the navy be very old and very wise. much of her wisdom be on record and available for reference. but more of it work in the unconscious blood of those who serve her. she ha a thousand year of experience and can find precedent or parallel for any situation that the force of the weather or the malice of the king s enemy may bring about. 
the main principle of sea warfare hold good throughout all age and so far a the navy ha be allow to put out her strength_ these principle have be apply over all the sea of the world. for matter of detail the navy to whom all day be alike ha simply return to the practice and resurrect the spirit of old day. 
in the late french war a merchant sail out of a channel port might in a few hour find himself lay by the heel and under way for a french prison. his majesty s ship of the line and even the big frigate take little part in police the water for him unless he be in convoy. the sloop cutter gun brig and local craft of all kind be suppose to look after that while the line be busy elsewhere. so the merchant pass resolution against the inadequate protection afford to the trade and the narrow sea be full of single ship action. mail packet west country brig and fat east indiaman fight for their own hull and cargo anything that the watchful french port send against them. the sloop and cutter bear a hand if they happen to be within reach. 
the old navy. 
it be a brutal age minister to by hard fisted men and we have put it a hundred decent year behind u when it all come back again. to day there be no prison for the crew of merchantman but they can go to the bottom by mine and torpedo even more quickly than their ancestor be run into le havre. the submarine take the place of the privateer. the line a in the old war be occupy bombard and blockade elsewhere but the sea bear traffic must continue and that be be look after by the lineal descendant of the crew of the long extinct cutter and sloop and gun brig. the hour strike and they reappear to the tune of fifty thousand odd men in more than two thousand ship of which i have see a few hundred. word of command may have change a little the tool be certainly more complex but the spirit of the new crew who come to the old job be utterly unchanged. it be the same fierce hard live heavy hand very cunning service out of which the navy a we know it to day be bear. it be call indifferently the trawler and auxiliary fleet. it be chiefly compose of fisherman but it take in every one who may have maritime taste from retire admiral to the son of the sea cook. it exist for the benefit of the traffic and the annoyance of the enemy. it do be record by flag stick into chart. it casualty be bury in obscure corner of the newspaper. the grand fleet know it slightly. the restless light cruiser who chaperon it from the background be more intimate. the destroyer work off unlighted coast over unmarked shoal come a you might say in direct contact with it. the submarine alternately praise and since one periscope be very like another curse it activity. but the steady procession of traffic in home water liner and tramp six every sixty minute bless it altogether. 
since this most christian war include lay mine in the fairway of traffic and since these mine may be lay at any time by german submarine especially build for the work or by neutral ship all fairway must be sweep continuously day and night. when a nest of mine be report traffic must be hang up or deviate till it be clear out. when traffic come up channel it must be examine for contraband and other thing. and the examine tug lie out in a blaze of light to remind ship of this. month ago when the war be young the tug do not know what to look for specially. now they do. all this mine search and report and sweep plus the direction and examination of the traffic plus the lay of our own ever shift mine field be part of the trawler fleet s work because the navy a we know it be busy elsewhere. and there be always the enemy submarine with a price on her head whom the trawler fleet hunt and trap with zeal and joy. add to this that there be boat fish for real fish to be protect in their work at sea or chase off dangerous area whither because they be strictly forbid to go they naturally repair and you will begin to get some idea of what the trawler and auxiliary fleet doe. 
the ship and the men. 
now imagine the acreage of several dock basin cram gunwale to gunwale with brown and umber and ochre and rust red steam trawler tug harbour boat and yacht once clean and respectable now dirty and happy. throw in fish steamer surprise packet of unknown line and indescribable junk sampan lorchas catamaran and general service stink pontoon fill with indescribable apparatus man by men no dozen of whom seem to talk the same dialect or wear the same clothe. the mustard colour jersey who be clean a six pounder on a hull boat clip his word between his teeth and would be happy in gaelic. the whitish singlet and grey trouser hold up by what be obviously his soldier brother s spare regimental belt be pure lowestoft. the complete blue serge and soot suit pass a wire down a hatch be glasgow a far a you can hear him which be a fair distance because he want something do to the other end of the wire and the flat face boy who should be attend to it hail from the remote hebrides and be look at a girl on the dock edge. the bow legged man in the ulster and green worst comforter be a warm grimsby skipper worth several thousand. he and his crew who be mostly his own relation keep themselves to themselves and save their money. the pirate with the red beard bark over the rail at a friend with gold earring come from skye. the friend be west country. the noticeably insignificant man with the soft and deprecate eye be skipper and part owner of the big slash iceland trawler on which he droop like a flower. she be build to almost western ocean line carry a little boat deck aft with tremendous stanchion ha a nose cock high against ice and sweep sea and resemble a hawk moth at rest. the small sniff man be report to be a holy terror at sea. 
hunter and fisher. 
the child in the pullman car uniform just go ashore be a wireless operator age nineteen. he be attach to a flagship at least foot long under an admiral age twenty five who be till the other day third mate of a north atlantic tramp but who now lead a squadron of six trawler to hunt submarine. the principle be simple enough. it application depend on circumstance and surround. one class of german submarine mean for murder off the coast may use a wind and rabbit like track between shoal where the choice of water be limit. their career be rarely long but while it last moderately excite. others tell off for deep sea assassination be attend to quite quietly and without any excitement at all. others again work the inside of the north sea make no distinction between neutral and ally ship. these carry gun and since their work keep them a good deal on the surface the trawler fleet a we know engage them there the submarine fire sink and rise again in unexpected quarter. the trawler fire dodge and try to ram. the trawler be strongly build and can stand a great deal of punishment. yet again other german submarine hang about the skirt of fish fleet and fire into the brown of them. when the war be young this give splendidly frightful result but for some reason or other the game be not a popular a it use to be. 
lastly there be german submarine who perish by way so curious and inexplicable that one could almost credit the whisper idea. it must come from the scotch skipper. that the ghost of the woman they drown pilot them to destruction. but what form these shadow take whether of the lusitania lady or humble stewardess and hospital nurse and what light or sound the thing fancy it see or hear before it be blot out no man will ever know. the main fact be that the work be be do. whether it be necessary or politic to re awaken by violence every sport instinct of a sea go people be a question which the enemy may have to consider late on. 
dawn off the foreland the young flood make jumble and short and steep black in the hollow and bright where it s break awkward water to sweep. mine report in the fairway warn all traffic and detain. send up unity claribel assyrian stormcock and golden gain. 
noon off the foreland the first ebb make lumpy and strong in the bight. boom after boom and the golf hut shake and the jackdaw wild with fright. mine locate in the fairway boat now work up the chain sweeper unity claribel assyrian stormcock and golden gain. 
dusk off the foreland the last light go and the traffic crowd through and five damn trawler with their syreens blow head the whole review. sweep complete in the fairway. no more mine remain. send back unity claribel assyrian stormcock and golden gain. 
the auxiliary. 
ii. 
the trawler seem to look on mine a more or le fairplay. but with the torpedo it be otherwise. a yarmouth man lay on his hatch his gear neatly stow away below and tell me that another yarmouth boat have go up with all hand except one. twas a submarine. not a mine say he. they never give our boy no chance. na. she be a yarmouth boat we know em all. they never give the boy no chance. he be a submarine hunter and he illustrate by mean of match place at various angle how the blindfold business be conduct. and then he end there s always what he ll do. you ve get to think that out for yourself while you re work above him same a if twas fish. i should not care to be hunt for the life in shallow water by a man who know every bank and pothole of them even if i have not kill his friend the week before. be nearly all fisherman they discus their work in term of fish and put in their leisure fish overside when they sometimes pull up ghastly souvenir. but they all want gun. those who have three pounder clamour for six. six for twelve. and the twelve pound aristocracy dream of four inchers on anti aircraft mounting for the benefit of rove zeppelin. they will all get them in time and i fancy it will be long ere they give them up. one west country mate announce that a gun be a handy thing to have aboard always. but in peacetime. i say. wouldn t it be in the way. 
we m use to em now be the smile answer. niver go to sea again without a gun i wouldn t if i have my way. it keep all hand please like. 
they talk about men in the army who will never willingly go back to civil life. what of the fisherman who have taste something sharp than salt water and what of the young third and fourth mate who have hold independent command for nine month past. one of them say to me quite irrelevantly. i use to be the animal that get up the trunk for the woman on baggage day in the old bodiam castle and he mimic their request for the large brown box or the black dress basket a a free soul might scoff at his old life in the flesh. 
a common sweeper. 
my sponsor and chaperon in this elizabethan world of eighteenth century seaman be an a. b. who have go down in the landrail_ assist at the heligoland fight see the blücher sink and the bomb drop on our boat when we try to save the drown. whereby a he say those german die gottstrafin their own country because we didn t wait to be strafe. and ha now find more peaceful day in an office ashore. he lead me across many deck from craft to craft to study the various appliance that they specialise in. almost our last be what a north country trawler call a common sweeper that be to say a mine sweeper. she be at tea in her shirt sleeve and she protest loudly that there be nothing in sweep. see that wire rope. she say. well it lead through that lead to the ship which you re sweepin with. she make her end fast and you make yourn. then you sweep together at whichever depth you ve agree upon between you by mean of that arrangement there which regulate the depth. they give you a glass sort o thing for keepin your distance from the other ship but that s not want if you know each other. well then you sweep a the sayin be. there s nothin in it. you sweep till this wire rope foul the bloomin mine. then you go on till they appear on the surface so to say and then you explode them by mean of shootin at em with that rifle in the galley there. there s nothin in sweepin more than that. 
and if you hit a mine. i ask. 
you go up but you hadn t ought to hit em if you re careful. the thing be to get hold of the first mine all right and then you go on to the next and so on in a way o speakin. 
and you can fish too tween time say a voice from the next boat. a man lean over and return a borrow mug. they talk about fish notably that once they catch some red mullet which the common sweeper and his neighbour both agree be not natural in those water. a for mere sweep it bore them profoundly to talk about it. i only learn late a part of the natural history of mine that if you rake the tri nitro toluol by hand out of a german mine you develop eruption and skin poison. but on the authority of two expert there be nothing in sweep. nothing whatever. 
a block in the traffic. 
now imagine not a pistol shoot from these crowd quay a little office hang round with chart that be pencil and note over various shoal and sounding. there be a movable list of the boat at work with quaint and domestic name. outside the window lie the pack harbour outside that again the line of traffic up and down a stately cinema show of six ship to the hour. for the moment the film stick. a boat probably a common sweeper report an obstruction in a traffic lane a few mile away. she ha find and explode one mine. the office hear the dull boom of it before the wireless report come in. in all likelihood there be a nest of them there. it be possible that a submarine may have get in last night between certain shoal and lay them out. the shoal be be shepherd in case she be hide anywhere but the boundary of the newly discover mine area must be fix and the traffic deviate. there be a tramp outside with tug in attendance. she ha hit something and be leak badly. where shall she go. the office give her her destination the harbour be too full for her to settle down here. she swing off between the faithful tug. down coast some one ask by wireless if they shall hold up their traffic. it be exactly like a signaller offer a train to the next block. yes the office reply. wait a while. if it s what we think there will be a little delay. if it isn t what we think there will be a little long delay. meantime sweeper be nose round the suspect area look for cuckoo egg a a voice suggest. and a patrol boat lather her way down coast to catch and stop anything that may be on the move for skipper be sometimes rather careless. word begin to drop out of the air into the chart hang office. six and a half cable south fifteen east of something or other. mark it well and tell them to work up from there be the order. another mine explode. yes and we hear that too say the office. what about the submarine. _elizabeth huggins report. 
elizabeth s scandal must be fairly high flavour for a torpedo boat of immoral aspect sling herself out of harbour and hasten to share it. if elizabeth ha not speak the truth there may be word between the party. for the present a pencil suggestion seem to cover the case together with a demand a far a one can make out for more common sweeper. they will be forthcoming very shortly. those at work have get the run of the mine now and be busily howking them up. a trawler skipper wish to speak to the office. they have order him out but his boiler most of it be on the quay at the present time and ye ll remember it s the same wi my foremast an port rig sir. the office doe not precisely remember but if boiler and foremast be on the quay the rest of the ship have good stay alongside. the skipper fall away relieve. he scrap a tramp a few night ago in a bite of a sea. there be a little mutter of gun fire somewhere across the grey water where a fleet be at work. a monitor a broad a she be long come back from wherever the trouble be slip through the harbour mouth all wreathe with signal be receive by two motherly lighter and to all appearance go to sleep between them. the office doe not even look up. for that be not in their department. they have find a trawler to replace the boilerless one. her name be slide into the rack. the immoral torpedo boat flounce back to her mooring. evidently what elizabeth huggins say be not evidence. the message and reply begin again a the day close. 
the night patrol. 
return now to the inner harbour. at twilight there be a stir among the pack craft like the separation of dry tea leaf in water. the swing bridge across the basin shut against u. a boat shoot out of the jam take the narrow exit at a fair seven knot and round in the out harbour with all the pomp of a flagship which be exactly what she be. others follow break away from every quarter in silence. boat after boat fell into line gear stow away spar and buoy in order on their clean deck gun cast loose and ready wheel house window darken and everything in order for a day or a week or a month out. there be no word anywhere. the interrupt foot traffic star at them a they slide past below. a woman beside me wave her hand to a man on one of them and i saw his face light a he wave back. the boat where they have demonstrate for me with match be the last. her skipper hadn t think it worth while to tell me that he be go that even. then the line straighten up and stand out to sea. 
you never say this be go to happen i say reproachfully to my a. b. 
no more i do say he. it s the night patrol go out. fact be i m so use to the bloomin evolution that it never strike me to mention it a you might say. 
next morning i be at service in a man of war and even a we come to the prayer that the navy might be a safeguard to such a pas upon the sea on their lawful occasion i saw the long procession of traffic resume up and down the channel six ship to the hour. it ha be hang up for a bite they say. 
farewell and adieu to you greenwich lady farewell and adieu to you lady ashore. for we ve receive order to work to the eastward where we hope in a short time to strafe em some more. 
we ll duck and we ll dive like little tin turtle we ll duck and we ll dive underneath the north sea until we strike something that doesn t expect u from here to cuxhaven it s go a you please. 
the first thing we do be to dock in a mine field which isn t a place where repair should be do. and there we lay doggo in twelve fathom water with tri nitro toluol hog our run. 
the next thing we do we rise under a zeppelin with his shiny big belly half block the sky. but what in the heaven can you do with six pounder. so we fire what we have and we bid him good bye. 
submarine. 
i. 
the chief business of the trawler fleet be to attend to the traffic. the submarine in her sphere attend to the enemy. like the destroyer the submarine ha create it own type of officer and man with language and tradition apart from the rest of the service and yet at heart unchangingly of the service. their business be to run monstrous risk from earth air and water in what to be of any use must be the cold of cold blood. 
the commander s be more a one man job a the crew s be more team work than any other employment afloat. that be why the relation between submarine officer and men be what they be. they play hourly for each other s life with death the umpire always at their elbow on tiptoe to give them out. 
there be a stretch of water once dear to amateur yachtsman now give over to scout submarine destroyer and of course contingent of trawler. we be wait the return of some boat which be due to report. a couple surge up the still harbour in the afternoon light and tie up beside their sister. there climb out of them three or four high boot sink eye pirate clothe in sweater under jacket that a stoker of the last generation would have disown. this be their first chance to compare note at close hand. together they lament the loss of a zeppelin a perfect mug of a zepp who have come down very low and offer one of them a sit shoot. but what can you do with our gun. i give him what i have and then he start bomb. 
i know he do another say. i hear him. that s what bring me down to you. i think he have you that last time. 
no i be forty foot under when he heave out the big un. what happen to you. 
my steer gear jam just after i go down and i have to go round in circle till i get it straighten out. but wasn t he a mug. 
be he the brute with the patch on his port side. a sister boat demand. 
no. this fellow have just be hatch. he be almost sit on the water heave bomb over. 
and my blast steer gear go and choose then to go wrong the other commander mourn. i think his last little egg be go to get me. 
half an hour late i be formally introduce to three or four quite strange quite immaculate officer freshly shave and a little tire about the eye whom i think i have meet before. 
labour and refreshment. 
meantime. it be on the hour of even drink. one of the boat be still unaccounted for. no one talk of her. they rather discuss motor car and admiralty constructor but it felt like that queer twilight watch at the front when the home aeroplane drop in. presently a signaller enter. v outside sir. want to know which channel she shall use. oh thank you. tell her to take so and so. mine remember be vermouth and bitter and late on v himself find a soft chair and join the committee of instruction. those next for duty a well a those in train wish to hear what be go on and who have shift what to where and how certain arrangement have work. they be tell in language not to be find in any printable book. question and answer be alike hebrew to one listener but he gather that every boat carry a second in command a strong persevere youth who seem responsible for everything that go wrong from a motor cylinder to a torpedo. then somebody touch on the mercantile marine and it habit. 
say one philosopher. they can t be expect to take any more risk than they do. i wouldn t if i be a skipper. i d loose off at any bless periscope i saw. 
that s all very fine. you wait till you ve have a patriotic tramp try to strafe you at your own back door say another. 
some one tell a tale of a man with a voice notable even in a service where men be not train to whisper. he be come back empty hand dirty tire and best leave alone. from the peace of the german side he have enter our hectic home water where the usual tramp shell and by miraculous luck crumple his periscope. another man might have dive but boanerges keep on rise. majestic and wrathful he rise personally through his main hatch and at yard. have i say it be a still day. address the tramp. even at that distance she gather it be a naval officer with a grievance and by the time he run alongside she be in a state of coma but manage to stammer. well sir at least you ll admit that our shoot be pretty good. 
and that say my informant put the lid on. boanerges go down l he should be tempt to murder. and the tramp affirm she hear him rumble beneath her like an invert thunder storm for fifteen minute. 
all those tramp ought to be disarm and we ought to have all their gun say a voice out of a corner. 
what. still worry over your mug. some one reply. 
he be a mug. go on the man of one idea. if i d have a couple of twelve even i could have strafe him proper. i don t know whether i shall mutiny or desert or write to the first sea lord about it. 
strafe all admiralty constructor to begin with. i could build a good boat with a inch lathe and a sardine tin than the speaker name her by letter and number. 
that s pure jealousy her commander explain to the company. ever since i instal ahem. my patent electric washbasin he s be intriguin to get her. why. we know he doesn t wash. he d only use the basin to keep beer in. 
underwater work. 
however often one meet it a in this war one meet it at every turn one never get use to the holy spirit of man at his job. the common sweeper growl over his mug of tea that there be nothing in sweepin and these idly chaff men new shave and attire from the gate of death which have let them through for the fiftieth time be all of the same fabric incomprehensible i should imagine to the enemy. and the stuff hold good throughout all the world from the dardanelles to the baltic where only a little while ago another batch of submarine have slip in and begin to be busy. i have spend some of the afternoon in look through report of submarine work in the sea of marmora. they read like the diary of energetic weasel in an overcrowd chicken run and the result for each boat be tabulate something like a cricket score. there be no maiden over. one come across jewel of price set in the flat official phraseology. for example one man who be describe some step he be take to remedy certain defect interject casually. at this point i have to go under for a little a a man in a boat be try to grab my periscope with his hand. no reference before or after to the say man or his fate. again. come across a dhow with a turkish skipper. he seem so miserable that i let him go. and elsewhere in those water a submarine overhaul a steamer full of turkish passenger some of whom argue on their ally line promptly leap overboard. our boat fish them out and return them for she be not kill civilian. in another affair which include several ship. now at the bottom. and one submarine the commander relax enough to note that. the men behave very well under direct and flank fire from rifle at about fifteen yard. this be not_ i believe the submarine that fight the turkish cavalry on the beach. and in addition to matter much more marvellous than any i have hint at the report deal with repair and shift and contrivance carry through in the face of danger that read like the last delirium of romance. one boat go down the strait and find herself rather cant over to one side. a mine and chain have jam under her forward dive plane. so far a i make out she shake it off by stand on her head and jerk backwards. or it may have be for the thing ha occur more than once she merely rise a much a she could when she could and then release it by hand a the official phrase go. 
four nightmare. 
and who a few month ago could have invent or have invent would have dare to print such a nightmare a this. there be a boat in the north sea who run into a net and be catch by the nose. she rise still entangle mean to cut the thing away on the surface. but a zeppelin in wait saw and bomb her and she have to go down again at once but not too wildly or she would get herself more wrap up than ever. she go down and by slow work and weave and wriggle guide only by guess at the mean of each scrape and grind of the net on her blind forehead at last she draw clear. then she sit on the bottom and think. the question be whether she should go back at once and warn her confederate against the trap or wait till the destroyer which she know the zeppelin would have signal for should come out to finish her still entangle a they would suppose in the net. it be a simple calculation of comparative speed and position and when it be work out she decide to try for the double event. within a few minute of the time she have allow for them she hear the twitter of four destroyer screw quarter above her. rise. get her shoot in. saw one destroyer crumple. hang round till another take the wreck in tow. say good bye to the spare brace. she be at the end of her supply. and reach the rendezvous in time to turn her friend. 
and since we be deal in nightmare here be two more one genuine the other mercifully false. there be a boat not only at but in the mouth of a river well home in german territory. she be spot and go under her commander perfectly aware that there be not more than five foot of water over her con tower so that even a torpedo boat let alone a destroyer would hit it if she come over. but nothing hit anything. the search be conduct on scientific principle while they sit on the silt and suffer. then the commander hear the rasp of a wire trawl sweep over his hull. it be not a nice sound but there happen to be a couple of gramophone aboard and he turn them both on to drown it. and in due time that boat get home with everybody s hair of just the same colour a when they have start. 
the other nightmare arise out of silence and imagination. a boat have go to bed on the bottom in a spot where she might reasonably expect to be look for but it be a convenient jump off or up place for the work in hand. about the bad hour of. a. m. the commander be wake by one of his men who whisper to him. they ve get the chain on u sir. whether it be pure nightmare an hallucination of long wakefulness something relax and release in that pack box of machinery or the disgustful reality the commander could not tell but it have all the making of panic in it. so the lord and long train put it into his head to reply. have they. well we shan t be come up till nine o clock this morning. well see about it then. turn out that light please. 
he do not sleep but the dreamer and the others do and when morning come and he give the order to rise and she rise unhampered and he saw the grey smear sea from above once again he say it be a very refresh sight. 
lastly which be on all four with the gamble of the chase a man be come home rather bore after an uneventful trip. it be necessary for him to sit on the bottom for awhile and there he play patience. of a sudden it strike him a a vow and an omen that if he work out the next game correctly he would go up and strafe something. the card fell all in order. he go up at once and find himself alongside a german whom a he have promise and prophesy to himself he destroy. she be a mine layer and need only a jar to dissipate like a crack electric light bulb. he be somewhat impress by the contrast between the single hand game fifty foot below the ascent the attack the amaze result and when he descend again his card just a he have leave them. 
the ship destroy u above and ensnare u beneath. we arise we lie down and we move in the belly of death. 
the ship have a thousand eye to mark where we come. and the mirth of a seaport dy when our blow get home. 
submarine. 
ii. 
i be honour by a glimpse into this veil life in a boat which be merely practise between trip. submarine be like cat. they never tell who they be with last night and they sleep a much a they can. if you board a submarine off duty you generally see a perspective of fore shorten fattish men lay all along. the men say that except at certain time it be rather an easy life with relax regulation about smoke calculate to make a man put on flesh. one require well pad nerve. many of the men do not appear on deck throughout the whole trip. after all why should they if they don t want to. they know that they be responsible in their department for their comrade life a their comrade be responsible for theirs. what s the use of flap about. good lay in some magazine and cigarette. 
when we set forth there have be some trouble in the fairway and a mine neutral whose misfortune all bore with exemplary calm be careen on a near by shoal. 
suppose there be more mine knock about. i suggest. 
we ll hope there aren t be the soothe reply. mine be all joss. you either hit em or you don t. and if you do they don t always go off. they scrape alongside. 
what s the etiquette then. 
shut off both propeller and hope. 
we be dodge various craft down the harbour when a squadron of trawler come out on our beam at that extravagant rate of speed which unlimited government coal always lead to. they be lead by an ugly upstanding black side buccaneer with twelve pounder. 
ah. that s the king of the trawler. isn t he carry dog too. give him room. one say. 
we be all in the narrow harbour mouth together. 
there s my young daughter. take a look at her. some one hum a a punctilious navy cap slide by on a very near bridge. 
we ll fall in behind him. they re go over to the neutral. then they ll sweep. by the bye do you hear about one of the passenger in the neutral yesterday. he be take off of course by a destroyer and the only thing he say be. twenty five time i ave insure but not this time. ang it. 
the trawler lunge ahead toward the forlorn neutral. our destroyer nip past u with that high shoulder terrier like pounce action of the new boat and go ahead. a tramp in ballast her propeller half out of water thresh along through the sallow haze. 
lord. what a shoot. somebody say enviously. the men on the little deck look across at the slow move silhouette. one of them a cigarette behind his ear smile at a companion. 
then we go down not a they go when they be press. the record i believe be foot in second from top to bottom. but genteelly to an orchestra of appropriate sound roaring and blowing and after the order which come from the commander alone utter silence and peace. 
there s the bottom. we bump at fifty fifty two he say. 
i didn t feel it. 
we ll try again. watch the gauge and you ll see it flick a little. 
the practice of the art. 
it may have be so but i be more interest in the face and above all the eye all down the length of her. it be to them of course the simple of manoeuvre. they drop into gear a no machine could. but the train of year and the experience of the year leap up behind those steady eye under the electric in the shadow of the tall motor between the pipe and the curve hull or glue to their special gauge. one forget the body altogether but one will never forget the eye or the ennoble face. one man i remember in particular. on deck his be no more than a grave rather strike countenance cast in the unmistakable petty officer s mould. below a i saw him in profile handle a vital control he look like the doge of venice the prior of some sternly rule monastic order an old time pope anything that signify train and store intellectual power utterly and ascetically devote to some vast impersonal end. and so with a much young man who change into such a monk a frank dicksee use to draw. only a couple of torpedo men not be in gear for the moment read an illustrate paper. their time do not come till we go up and get to business which mean fire at our destroyer and i think keep out of the light of a friend s torpedo. 
the attack and everything connect with it be solely the commander s affair. he be the only one who get any fun at all since he be the eye the brain and the hand of the whole this single figure at the periscope. the second in command heave sigh and pray that the dummy torpedo. there be le trouble about the live one. will go off all right or he ll be tell about it. the others wait and follow the quick run of order. it be if not a convention a fairly establish custom that the commander shall inferentially give his world some idea of what be go on. at least i only hear of one man who say nothing whatever and doesn t even wriggle his shoulder when he be on the sight. the others soliloquise etc. accord to their temperament. and the periscope be a reveal a golf. 
submarine nowadays be expect to look out for themselves more than at the old practice when the destroyer walk circumspectly. we dive and circulate under water for a while and then rise for a sight something like this. up a little up. up still. where the deuce ha he get to ah. half a dozen order a to helm and depth of descent and a pause break by a drum noise somewhere above which increase and pass away. that s good. up again. this refer to the periscope. yes. ah. no we don t think. all right. keep her down_ damn it. umm. that ought to be nineteen knot. dirty trick. he s change speed. no he isn t. he s all right. ready forward there. a valve sputter and drip the torpedo men crouch over their tube and nod to themselves. their face have change now. he hasn t spot u yet. we ll ju ust. more helm and depth order but specially helm. wish we be work a beam tube. ne er mind. up. a last string of order. six hundred and he doesn t see u. fire. 
the dummy leave. the second in command cock one ear and look relieve. up we rise. the wet air and spray spatter through the hatch. the destroyer swing off to retrieve the dummy. 
careless brute destroyer be say one officer. that fellow nearly walk over u just now. do you notice. 
the commander be play his game out over again stroke by stroke. with a beam tube i d ha strafe him amidships he conclude. 
why didn t you then. i ask. 
there be load of shiny reason which remind me that we be at war and clear for action and that the interlude have be merely play. a companion rise alongside and want to know whether we have see anything of her dummy. 
no. but we hear it be the short answer. 
i be rather annoy because i have see that particular daughter of destruction on the stock only a short time ago and here she be grow up and talk about her miss child. 
in the harbour again one find more submarine all pattern and make and size with rumour of yet more and large to follow. naturally their men say that we be only at the begin of the submarine. we shall have them presently for all purpose. 
the man and the work. 
now here be a mystery of the service. 
a man get a boat which for two year become his very self. 
his morning hope his even dream his joy throughout the day. 
with him be a second in command an engineer and some others. they prove each other s soul habitually every few day by the direct test of peril till they act think and endure a a unit in and with the boat. that commander be transfer to another boat. he try to take with him if he can which he can t a many of his other self a possible. he be pitch into a new type twice the size of the old one with three time a many gadget an unexplored temperament and unknown leaning. after his first trip he come back clamour for the head of her constructor of his own second in command his engineer his cox and a few other rating. they for their part wish him dead on the beach because last commission with so and so nothing ever go wrong anywhere. a fortnight late you can remind the commander of what he say and he will deny every word of it. she s not he say so very vile thing consider bar her five ton torpedo derrick the abomination of her wireless and the tropical temperature of her beer locker. all of which signify that the new boat ha find her soul and her commander would not change her for battle cruiser. therefore that he may remember he be the service and not a branch of it he be after certain season shift to a battle cruiser where he life in a blaze of admiral and aiguillettes responsible for vast deck and crypt like flat a student of extend above water tactic think in ten of thousand of yard instead of his modest but deadly three to twelve hundred. 
and the man who take his place straight way forget that he ever look down on great roller from a sixty foot bridge under the whole breadth of heaven but crawl and climb and dive through con tower with those same wave wet in his neck and when the cruiser pas him tear the deep open in half a gale thank god he be not a they be and go to bed beneath their distract keel. 
* * * * *. 
expert opinion. 
but submarine work be cold blood business. 
this be at a little session in a green curtain wardroom cum owner s cabin. 
then there s no truth in the yarn that you can feel when the torpedo s go to get home. i ask. 
not a word. you sometimes see it get home or miss a the case may be. of course it s never your fault if it miss. it s all your second in command. 
that s true too say the second. i catch it all round. that s what i be here for. 
and what about the third man. there be one aboard at the time. 
he generally come from a small boat to pick up real work if he can suppress his intellect and doesn t talk last commission. 
the third hand promptly deny the possession of any intellect and be quite dumb about his last boat. 
and the men. 
they train on too. they train each other. yes one get to know em about a well a they get to know u. up topside a man can take you in take himself in for month. for half a commission p rhaps. down below he can t. it s all in cold blood not like at the front where they have something excite all the time. 
then bump mine isn t excite. 
not one little bite. you can t bump back at em. even with a zepp. 
oh now and then one interrupt and they laugh a they explain. 
yes that be rather funny. one of our boat come up slap underneath a low zepp. look for the sky you know and couldn t see anything except this fat shin belly almost on top of em. luckily it wasn t the zepp s stingin end. so our boat go to windward and keep just awash. there be a bite of a sea and the zepp have to work against the wind. they don t like that. our boat send a man to the gun. he be pretty well drown of course but he hang on choke and spit and hold his breath and get in shot where he could. this zepp be strafe bomb about for all she be worth and who be it. macartney i think pot at her between dive. and naturally all hand want to look at the performance so about half the north sea flop down below and oh they have a charlie chaplin time of it. well somehow macartney manage to rip the zepp a bite and she go to leeward with a list on her. we saw her a fortnight late with a patch on her port side. oh if fritz only fight clean this wouldn t be half a bad show. but fritz can t fight clean. 
and we can t do what he doe even if we be allow to one say. 
no we can t. tisn t do. we have to fish fritz out of the water dry him and give him cocktail and send him to donnington hall. 
and what doe fritz do. i ask. 
he sputter and click and bow. he ha all the correct motion you know. but of course when he s your prisoner you can t tell him what he really be. 
and do you suppose fritz understand any of it. i go on. 
no. or he wouldn t have lusitaniaed. this war be his first chance of make his name and he chuck it all away for the sake of showin off a a foul gottstrafer. 
and they talk of that hour of the night when submarine come to the top like mermaid to get and give information. of boat whose business it be to fire a much and to splash about a aggressively a possible. and of other boat who avoid any sort of display dumb boat watch and relieve watch with their periscope just show like a crocodile s eye at the back of island and the mouth of channel where something may some day move out in procession to it doom. 
be well assure that on our side our challenge ocean fight though headlong wind and heap tide make u their sport to night. through force of weather not of war in jeopardy we steer. then welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it shall appear how in all time of our distress a in our triumph too the game be more than the player of the game and the ship be more than the crew. 
be well assure though wave and wind have mighty blow in store that we who keep the watch assign must stand to it the more. and a our stream bow dismiss each billow s baulk career sing welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it be make clear how in all time of our distress a in our triumph too the game be more than the player of the game and the ship be more than the crew. 
be well assure though in our power be nothing leave to give but time and place to meet the hour and leave to strive to live till these dissolve our order hold our service bind u here. then welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it be make clear how in all time of our distress and our deliverance too the game be more than the player of the game and the ship be more than the crew. 
patrol. 
i. 
on the edge of the north sea sit an admiral in charge of a stretch of coast without light or mark along which the traffic move much a usual. in front of him there be nothing but the east wind the enemy and some few our ship. behind him there be town with m. p. s attach who a little while ago didn t see the reason for certain light order. when a zeppelin or two come they saw. leave and right of him be enormous dock with vast crowd shed mile of stone face quay edge load with all manner of supply and crowd with mix ship. 
in this exalt world one meet staff captain staff commander staff lieutenant and secretary with paymaster so senior that they almost rank with admiral. there be warrant officer too who long ago give up splash about deck barefoot and now check and issue store to the ravenous untruthful fleet. say one of these guard a collection of desirable thing to a cross between a sick bay attendant and a junior writer. but he be really an expert burglar. _no. an you can tell mr. so and so with my compliment that the storekeeper s go away right away with the key of these store in his pocket. understand me. in his trouser pocket. 
he snort at my next question. 
_do i know any destroyer lootenants. say he. this coast s rank with em. destroyer lootenants be bear steal. it s a mercy they s too busy to practise forgery or i d be in gaol. engineer commander. engineer lootenants. they re bad. look here. if my own mother be to come to me beggin brass screw for her own coffin i d i d think twice before i d oblige the old lady. war s war i grant you that. but what i ve get to contend with be crime. 
i refer to him a case of conscience in which every one concern act exactly a he should and it nearly end in murder. during a lengthy action the work of a gun be hamper by some empty cartridge case which the lieutenant in charge make sign. no man could hear his neighbour speak just then. should be heave overboard. upon which the gunner rush forward and make other sign that they be on charge and must be tally and account for. he too be train in a strict school. upon which the lieutenant but that he be busy would have slay the gunner for refuse order in action. afterwards he want him shoot by court martial. but every one be voiceless by then and could only mouth and croak at each other till somebody laugh and the pedantic gunner be spar. 
well that s what you might fairly call a naval crux say my friend among the store. the lootenant be right. mustn t refuse order in action. the gunner be right. empty case be on charge. no one ought to chuck em away that way but. damn it they be all of em right. it ought to ha be a marine. then they could have kill him and preserve discipline at the same time. 
a little theory. 
the problem of this coast resolve itself into keep touch with the enemy s movement. in prepare matter to trap and hind him when he move and in so entertain him that he shall not have time to draw clear before a blow descend on him from another quarter. there be then three line of defence. the out the inner and the home water. the traffic and fish be always with u. 
the blackboard idea of it be always to have strong force more immediately available everywhere than those the enemy can send. x german submarine draw a english destroyer. then x call x + y to deal with a_ who in turn call up b_ a scout and possibly a²_ with a fair chance that if x + y + z. a zeppelin. carry on they will run into a² + b² + c cruiser. at this point the equation generally stop. if it continue it would end mathematically in the whole of the german fleet come out. then another factor which we may call the grand fleet would come from another place. to change the comparison. the grand fleet be the strong leave ready to give the knock out blow on the point of the chin when the head be throw up. the other fleet and other arrangement threaten the enemy s solar plexus and stomach. somewhere in relation to the grand fleet lie the blockade cordon which examine neutral traffic. it could be draw a tight a a turkish bowstring but for reason which we may arrive at after the war it doe not seem to have be so draw up to date. 
the enemy lie behind his mine and ours raid our coast when he see a chance and kill seagoing civilian at sight or guess with intent to terrify. most sailor men be mix up with a woman or two. a fair percentage of them have see men drown. they can realise what it be when woman go down choke in horrible tangle and heaving of drapery. to say that the enemy ha cut himself from the fellowship of all who use the sea be rather understate the case. a a man observe thoughtfully. you can t look at any water now without see lusitania sprawlin all across it. and just think of those word north german lloyd hamburg amerika and such thing in the time to come. they simply mustn t be. 
he be an elderly trawler respectable a they make them who after many year of fish have discover his real vocation. i never think i d like killin men he reflect. never seem to be any o my dooty. but it be and i do. 
a great deal of the east coast work concern mine field ours and the enemy s both of which shift a occasion require. we search for and root out the enemy s mine. they do the like by u. it be a perpetual game of find spring and lay trap on the least a well a the most likely runaway that ship use such sea snare and wire a the world never dream of. we be hamper in this because our navy respect neutral. and spend a great deal of it time in make their path safe for them. the enemy doe not. he blow them up because that cow and impress them and so add to his prestige. 
death and the destroyer. 
the easy way of find a mine field be to steam into it on the edge of night for choice with a steep sea run for that bring the bow down like a chopper on the detonator horn. some boat have enjoy this experience and still live. there be one destroyer. and there may have be others since. who come through twenty four hour of highly compress life. she have an idea that there be a mine field somewhere about and leave her companion behind while she explore. the weather be dead calm and she walk delicately. she saw one scandinavian steamer blow up a couple of mile away rescue the skipper and some hand. saw another neutral which she could not reach till all be over ski in another direction. and between her life save effort and her natural curiosity get herself a thoroughly mix up with the field a a camel among tent rope. a destroyer s bow be very fine and her side be very straight. this cause her to cleave the wave with the minimum of disturbance and this boat have no desire to cleave anything else. none the le from time to time she hear a mine grate or tinkle or jar. i could not arrive at the precise note it strike but they say it be unpleasant. on her plate. sometimes she would be free of them for a long while and begin to hope she be clear. at other time they be numerous but when at last she seem to have worry out of the danger zone lieutenant and sub together leave the bridge for a cup of tea. in those day we take mine very seriously you know. a they be in act to drink they hear the hateful sound again just outside the wardroom. both put their cup down with extreme care little finger extend. we felt a if they might blow up too. and tip toe on deck where they meet the foc sle also on tip toe. they pull themselves together and ask severely what the foc sle think it be do. beg pardon sir but there s another of those blighter tap tap alongside our end. they all wait and listen to their common coffin be nail by death himself. but the thing bump away. at this point they think it only decent to invite the rescue skipper warm and blanket in one of their bunk to step up and do any further perish in the open. 
no thank you say he. last time i be blow up in my bunk too. that be all right. so i think now too i stay in my bunk here. it be cold upstairs. 
somehow or other they get out of the mess after all. yes we use to take mine awfully seriously in those day. one comfort be fritz ll take them seriously when he come out. fritz don t like mine. 
who doe. i want to know. 
if you d be here a little while ago you d see a commander comin in with a big un sling under his counter. he bring the beastly thing in to analyse. the rest of his squadron follow at two knot interval and everything in harbour that have steam up scatter. 
the admirable commander. 
presently i have the honour to meet a lieutenant commander admiral who have retire from the service but like others have turn out again at the first flash of the gun and now command he who have great ship erupt at his least signal a squadron of trawler for the protection of the dogger bank fleet. at present price let alone the chance of the pay submarine men would fish in much warm place. his flagship be once a multi millionaire s private yacht. in her mixture of stark carpetless curtainless carbolised present with voluptuously curve broad deck easy stairwayed past she might be queen guinevere in the convent at amesbury. and her lieutenant commander most careful to pay all due compliment to admiral who be midshipman when he be a commander lead a congregation of very hard men indeed. they do precisely what he tell them to and with him go through strange experience because they love him and because his language be volcanic and wonderful what you might call popocatapocalyptic. i saw the old navy make ready to lead out the new under a grey sky and a fall glass the wisdom and cunning of the old man back up by the passion and power of the young breed and the discipline which have be his soul for half a century bind them all. 
what ll he do this time. i ask of one who might know. 
he ll cruise between two and three east. but if you ll tell me what he win t do it ud be more to the point. he s mine hunt i expect just now. 
waste material. 
here be a digression suggest by the sight of a man i have know in other scene despatch rid round a fleet in a petrol launch. there be many of his type yachtsman of sort accustom to take chance who do not hold master certificate and cannot be give sea go command. like my friend they do general utility work often in their own boat. this be a waste of good material. nobody want amateur navigator the traffic lane be none too wide a it be. but these gentleman ought to be distribute among the trawler fleet a strictly combatant officer. a trawler skipper may be an excellent seaman but slow with a submarine shell and dive or in cut out enemy trawler. the young one who can master q. f. gun work in a very short time would though there might be friction a court martial or two and probably loss at first pay for their keep. even a hundred or so of amateur more or le control by their squadron commander would make a happy begin and i be sure they would all be extremely grateful. 
where the east wind be brew fresh and fresh every morning and the balmy night breeze blow straight from the pole i hear a destroyer sing. what an enjoyable life doe one lead on the north sea patrol. 
to blow thing to bit be our business. and fritz s. which mean there be mine field wherever you stroll. unless you ve particular wish to die quick you ll avoid steer close to the north sea patrol. 
we warn from disaster the mercantile master who take in high dudgeon our life save rôle for every one s grouse at dock and dowse the mark and the light on the north sea patrol. 
[twelve verse omit. ]. 
so sweep but survive half drown but still drive i watch her head out through the swell off the shoal and i hear her propeller roar. write to poor feller who run such a hell a the north sea patrol. 
patrol. 
ii. 
the great basin be cram with craft of kind never know before on any navy list. some be a they be bear others have be convert and a multitude have be design for special case. the navy prepare against all contingency by land sea and air. it be a relief to meet a batch of comprehensible destroyer and to drop again into the little mouse trap ward room which be a large hearted a all our ocean. the men one use to know a destroyer lieutenant. bear steal. be serious commander and captain to day but their son lieutenant in command and lieutenant commander do follow them. the sea in peace be a hard life. war only sketch an extra line or two round the young mouth. the routine of ship always ready for action be so part of the blood now that no one notice anything except the absence of formality and of the crime of peace. what warrant officer use to say at length be cut down to a grunt. what the sailor man do not know and expect to have tell him doe not exist. he ha do it all too often at sea and ashore. 
i watch a little party work under a lead hand at a job which eighteen month ago would have require a gunner in charge. it be comic to see his order try to overtake the execution of them. rating come aboard carry themselves with a. to me. new swing not swank but consciousness of adequacy. the high dark foc sle which thank goodness be only wash twice a week receive them and their bag and they turn to on the instant a a man pick up his life at home. like the submarine crew they come to be a breed apart double joint extra toe with brazen bowel and no sort of nerve. 
it be the same in the engine room when the ship come in for their regular look over. those who love them which you would never guess from the language know exactly what they need and get it without fuss. everything that steam ha her individual peculiarity and the great thing be at overhaul to keep to it and not develop a new one. if for example through some trick of her screw not synchronise a destroyer always cast to port when she go astern do not let any zealous soul try to make her run true or you will have to learn her helm all over again. and it be vital that you should know exactly what your ship be go to do three second before she doe it. similarly with men. if any one from lieutenant commander to stoker change his personal trick or habit even the manner in which he clutch his chin or caress his nose at a crisis the matter must be carefully consider in this world where each be trustee for his neighbour s life and vastly more important the corporate honour. 
what be the destroyer do just now. i ask. 
oh run about much the same a usual. 
the navy hasn t the least objection to tell one everything that it be do. unfortunately it speak it own language which be incomprehensible to the civilian. but you will find it all in the channel pilot and the riddle of the sand. 
it be a foul coast hairy with current and rip and mottle with shoal and rock. practically the same men hold on here in the same ship with much the same crew for month and month. a most senior officer tell me that they be good boy on reflection quite good boy but neither he nor the flag on his chart explain how they manage their lightless unmarked navigation through black night blind rain and the crazy rebound north sea gale. they themselves ascribe it to joss that they have not pile up their ship a hundred time. 
i expect it must be because we re always dodge about over the same grind. one get to smell it. we ve bump pretty hard of course but we haven t expend much up to date. you never know your luck on patrol though. 
the nature of the beast. 
personally though they have be true friend to me i loathe destroyer and all the raw rack ricochet life that go with them the smell of the wet lammies and damp wardroom cushion. the galley chimney smoke out the bridge. the obstacle strew deck. and the pervade beastliness of oil grit and greasy iron. even at mooring they shiver and sidle like half back horse. at sea they will neither rise up and fly clear like the hydroplane nor dive and be do with it like the submarine but imitate the vice of both. a scientist of the low deck describe them a. half switchback half water chute and hell continuous. their only merit from a landsman s point of view be that they can crumple themselves up from stem to bridge and. i have see it. still get home. but one doe not breathe these compliment to their commander. other destroyer may be they will point them out to you poisonous bag of trick but their own command never. be she high bow. that be the only type which over ride the sea instead of smother. be she low. low bow glide through the water where those collier nose brute smash it open. be she muck up with submarine catcher. they rather improve her trim. no other ship ha them. have they be deny to her. thank heaven we go to sea without a fish cure plant on deck. doe she roll even for her class. she be dry than dreadnought. be she permanently and infernally wet. stiff. sir stiff. the first requisite of a gun platform. 
service a requisite. 
thus the cæsars and their fortune put out to sea with their sub and their sad eye engineer and their long suffer signaller i do not even know the technical name of the sin which cause a man to be bear a destroyer signaller in this life and the little yellow shell stick all about where they can be easy reach. the rest of their act be write for the information of the proper authority. it read like a page of todhunter. but the master of merchant ship could tell more of eyeless shape barely outline on the foam of their own arrest who shout order through the thick gloom alongside. the stray and anxious neutral know them when their searchlight pin him across the deep or their syrens answer the last yelp of his a steam go out of his torpedo boiler. they stand by to catch and soothe him in his pyjama at the gangway collect his scatter lifeboat and see a warm drink into him before they turn to hunt the slayer. the drifter punch and reel up and down their ten mile line of trap. the out trawler draw the very teeth of death with water sodden finger be grateful for their low guard signal. and when the zeppelin s reveal star shell crack darkness open above him the answer crack of the invisible destroyer gun comfort the busy mine layer. big cruiser talk to them too. and what be more they talk back to the cruiser. sometimes they draw fire pinkish spurt of light a long way off where fritz be try to coax them over a mine field he ha just lay. or they steal on fritz in the midst of his job and the horizon ring with bark which the inevitable neutral who saw it all report a a heavy fleet action in the north sea. the sea after dark can be a alive a the wood of summer night. everything be exactly where you don t expect it and the shy creature be the farthest away from their hole. thing boom overhead like bittern or scutter alongside like hare or arise drip and hiss from below like otter. it be the destroyer s business to find out what their business may be through all the long night and to help or hind accordingly. dawn see them pitch pole insanely between head sea or hang on to bridge that sweep like scythe from one forlorn horizon to the other. a homeward bind submarine choose this hour to rise very ostentatiously and signal by hand to a lieutenant in command. they be the same term at dartmouth and same first ship. 
what s he sayin. secure that gun will you. can t hear oneself speak the gun be a bite noisy on it mounting but that isn t the reason for the destroyer lieutenant s short temper. 
say he s goin down sir the signaller reply. what the submarine have spell out and everybody know it be. cannot approve of this extremely frightful weather. be go to bye bye. 
well. snap the lieutenant to his signaller what be you grin at. the submarine ha hang on to ask if the destroyer will kiss her and whisper good night. a break sea smack her tower in the middle of the insult. she close like an oyster but just too late. habet. there must be a quarter of a ton of water somewhere down below on it way to her ticklish battery. 
what a wag. say the signaller dreamily. well e can t say e didn t get be little kiss. 
the lieutenant in command smile. the sea be a beast but a just beast. 
racial untruth. 
this be trivial enough but what would you have. if admiral will not strike the proper attitude nor lieutenant emit the appropriate sentiment one be force back on the truth which be that the men at the heart of the great matter in our empire be mostly of an even simplicity. from the advertise point of view they be stupid but the breed ha always be stupid in this department. it may be due a our enemy assert to our racial snobbery or a others hold to a certain god give lack of imagination which save u from be over concern at the effect of our appearance on others. either way it deceive the enemy people more than any calculate lie. when you come to think of it though the english be the bad paper work and viva voce liar in the world they have be rigorously train since their early youth to live and act lie for the comfort of the society in which they move and so for their own comfort. the result in this war be interest. 
it be no lie that at the present moment we hold all the sea in the hollow of our hand. for that reason we shuffle over them shame face and apologetic make arrangement here and flagrant compromise there in order to give substance to the lie that we have drop fortuitously into this high seat and be look round the world for some one to resign it to. nor be it any lie that have we use the navy s bare fist instead of it gloved hand from the begin we could in all likelihood have shorten the war. that be so we elect to dab and peck at and half strangle the enemy to let him go and choke him again. it be no lie that we continue on our inexplicable path animate we will try to believe till other proof be give by a cloudy idea of alleviate or mitigate something for somebody not ourselves. [here of course be where our racial snobbery come in which make the german gibber. i cannot understand why he ha not accuse u to our ally of have secret commercial understanding with him. ] for that reason we shall finish the german eagle a the merciful lady kill the chicken. it take her the whole afternoon and then you will remember the carcase have to be throw away. 
meantime there be a large and unlovely water inhabit by plain men in severe boat who endure cold exposure wet and monotony almost a heavy a their responsibility. charge them with heroism but that need heroism indeed. accuse them of patriotism they become ribald. examine into the record of the miraculous work they have do and be do. they will assist you but with perfect sincerity they will make a light of the valour and fore think show a of the end they have gain for mankind. the service take all work for grant. it know long ago that certain thing would have to be do and it do it best to be ready for them. when it disappear over the sky line for manoeuvre it be practise always practise. try it men and stuff and throw out what could not take the strain. that be why when war come only a few name have to be change and those chiefly for the sake of the body not of the spirit. and the senior who hold the key to our plan and know what will be do if thing happen and what line wear thin in the many chain they be of one fibre and speech with the junior and the low deck and all the rest who come out of the undemonstrative household ashore. here be the situation a it exist now say the senior. this be what we do to meet it. look and count and measure and judge for yourself and then you will know. 
it be a safe offer. the civilian only see that the sea be a vast place divide between wisdom and chance. he only know that the uttermost ocean have be sweep clear and the trade route purge one by one even a our army be be convoy along them. that there be no island nor key leave unsearched on any water that might hide an enemy s craft between the arctic circle and the horn. he only know that le than a day s run to the eastward of where he stand the enemy s fleet have be hold for a year and four month in order that civilisation may go about it business on all our water. 
tale of the trade. 

the trade. 
they bear in place of classic name letter and number on their skin. they play their grisly blindfold game in little box make of tin. sometimes they stalk the zeppelin sometimes they learn where mine be lay or where the baltic ice be thin. that be the custom of the trade. 
few prize court sit upon their claim. they seldom tow their target in. they follow certain secret aim down under far from strife or din. when they be ready to begin no flag be fly no fuss be make more than the shear of a pin. that be the custom of the trade. 
the scout s quadruple funnel flame a mark from sweden to the swin the cruiser s thundrous screw proclaim her coming out and going in. but only whiff of paraffin or creamy ring that fizz and fade show where the one eye death ha be. that be the custom of the trade. 
their feat their fortune and their fame be hide from their near kin. no eager public back or blame no journal print the yarn they spin. the censor would not let it in. when they return from run or raid. unheard they work unseen they win. that be the custom of the trade. 
i. 
some work in the baltic. 
no one know how the title of the trade come to be apply to the submarine service. some say that the cruiser invent it because they pretend that submarine officer look like unwashed chauffeur. others think it spring forth by itself which mean that it be coin by the low deck where they always have the proper name for thing. whatever the truth the submarine service be now the trade. and if you ask them why they will answer. what else could you call it. the trade s the trade of course. 
it be a close corporation. yet it recruit it men and officer from every class that us the sea and engine a well a from many class that never expect to deal with either. it take them. they disappear for a while and return change to their very soul for the trade life in a world without precedent of which no generation ha have any previous experience a world still be make and enlarge daily. it create and settle it own problem a it go along and if it cannot help itself no one else can. so the trade life in the dark and think out inconceivable and impossible thing which it afterwards put into practice. 
it keep book too a honest trader should. they be almost a bald a ledger and be write up hour by hour on a little slide table that pull out from beneath the commander s bunk. in due time they go to my lord of the admiralty who presently circulate a few carefully water extract for the confidential information of the junior officer of the trade that these may see what thing be do and how. the junior read but laugh. they have hear the story with all the flame detail and much of the language either from a chief actor while they perch deferentially on the edge of a mess room fender or from his subordinate in which case they be not so deferential or from some return member of the crew present on the occasion who between half shut teeth at the wheel jerk out what really happen. there be very little go on in the trade that the trade doe not know within a reasonable time. but the outside world must wait until my lord of the admiralty release the record. some of them have be release now. 
submarine and ice breaker. 
let u take almost at random an episode in the life of h. m. submarine e. it be true that she be command by commander max horton but the utter impersonality of the tale make it a though the boat herself speak. also never have meet or see any of the gentleman concern in the matter the writer can be impersonal too. some time ago e be in the baltic in the deep of winter where she use to be take to her hunt ground by an ice breaker. obviously a submarine cannot use her sensitive nose to smash heavy ice with so the broad beam push chaperone come along to see her clear of the thick harbour and shore ice. in the open sea apparently she be leave to her own device. in company of the ice breaker then e proceed. neither in the senior nor the junior service doe any one officially go anywhere. to a certain position. 
here it be not state in the book but the trade know every ache single detail of what be leave out she spend a certain time in test arrangement and apparatus which may or may not work properly when immerse in a mixture of block ice and dirty ice cream in a temperature well towards zero. this be a pleasant job make the more delightful by the knowledge that if you slip off the superstructure the deadly baltic chill will stop your heart long before even your heavy clothe can drown you. hence. and this be not in the book either. the remark of the highly train sailor man in these latitude who on be tell by his superior officer in the execution of his duty to go to hell do insubordinately and enviously reply. d you think i d be here if i could. whereby he cause the entire personnel begin with the commander to say amen or word to that effect. e evidently make thing work. 
next day she report. a circumstance be favourable decide to attempt to bag a destroyer. her certain position must have be near a well use destroyer run for shortly afterwards she see three of them but too far off to attack and late a the light be fail a fourth destroyer towards which she manoeuvre. depth keep she note very difficult owe to heavy swell. an observation balloon on a gusty day be almost a stable a a submarine pump in a heavy swell and since the baltic be shallow the submarine run the chance of be let down with a whack on the bottom. none the le e work her way to within yard of the quarry. fire and wait just long enough to be sure that her torpedo be run straight and that the destroyer be hold her course. then she dip to avoid detection. the rest be deadly simple. at the correct moment after fire to second hear the unmistakable noise of torpedo detonate. four minute late she rise and find destroyer have disappear. then for reason probably connect with other destroyer who too may have hear that unmistakable sound she go to bed below in the chill dark till it be time to turn homewards. when she rise she meet storm from the north and log it accordingly. spray freeze a it strike and bridge become a mass of ice. experience considerable difficulty in keep the con tower hatch free from ice. find it necessary to keep a man continuously employ on this work. bridge screen immovable ice six inch thick on it. telegraph freeze. in this state she forge ahead till midnight and any one who plea can imagine the thought of the continuous employee scrap and hammer round the hatch a well a the delight of his friend below when the ice slush spatter down the con tower. at last she consider it advisable to free the boat of ice so go below. 
a requisite. 
in the senior service the two word a requisite cover everything that need not be talk about. e next day proceed a requisite through a series of snowstorm and recur deposit of ice on the bridge till she get in touch with her friend the ice breaker. and in her company plough and root her way back to the work we know. there be nothing to show that it be a near thing for e but somehow one ha the idea that the ice breaker do not arrive any too soon for e s comfort and progress. but what happen in the baltic when the ice breaker doe not arrive. 
that be in winter. in summer quite the other way e have to go to bed by day very often under the long last northern light when the baltic be a smooth a a carpet and one cannot get within a mile and a half of anything with eye in it head without be put down. there be one time when e evidently on information receive take up a certain position and report the sea glassy. she have to suffer in silence while three heavily lade german ship go by. for an attack would have give away her position. her reward come next day when she sight. the word run like marryat s. enemy squadron come up fast from eastward proceed inshore of u. they be two heavy battleship with an escort of destroyer and e turn to attack. she doe not say how she creep up in that smooth sea within a quarter of a mile of the lead ship a three funnel ship of either the deutschland or braunschweig class but she manage it and fire both bow torpedo at her. 
no. torpedo be see and hear to strike her just before foremost funnel. smoke and débris appear to go a high a masthead. that much e saw before one of the guardian destroyer run at her. so say she observe her i take my periscope off the battleship. this be excusable a the destroyer be come up with intent to kill and e have to flood her tank and get down quickly. even so the destroyer only just miss her and she strike bottom in foot. but say e who if she could not see keep her ear open at the correct interval. the or second mention in the previous case. the second torpedo be hear to explode though not actually see. e come up twenty minute late to make sure. the destroyer be wait for her a couple of hundred yard away and again e dip for the life but just have time to see one large vessel approximately four or five mile away. 
put courage aside think for a moment of the mere drill of it all that last dive for that attack on the choose battleship. the eye at the periscope watch no. torpedo get home. the rush of the vengeful destroyer. the instant order for flood everything. the swift descent which have to be arrange for with full knowledge of the shallow sea floor wait below and a guess at the course that might be take by the seek bow above for assume a destroyer to draw foot and a submarine on the bottom to stand foot to the top of her con tower there be not much clearance in foot salt water specially if the boat jump when she touch bottom. and through all these and half a hundred other simultaneous consideration imagine the train mind below count a only torpedo men can count the run of the merciless second that should tell when that second shoot arrive. then at the correct interval a lay down in the table of distance the boom and the jar of no. torpedo the relief the exhale breath and untightened lip. the impatient wait for a second peep and when that have be take and the eye at the periscope have report one little nigger boy in place of two on the water perhaps cigarette &c. while the destroyer sickled about at a venture overhead. 
certainly they give men reward for do such thing but what reward can there be in any gift of king or people to match the endure satisfaction of have do them not alone but with and through and by trusty and prove companion. 
defeat by darkness. 
e also a baltic boat her commander f. n. laurence have her experience too. she go out one summer day and late too late in the even sight three transport. the first she hit. while she be arrange for the second the third inconsiderately try to ram her before her sight be on. so it be necessary to go down at once and waste whole minute of the precious scant light. when she rise the stricken ship be sink and shortly afterwards blow up. the other two be patrol near by. it would have be a fair chance in daylight but the darkness defeat her and she have to give up the attack. 
it be e who during thick weather come across a squadron of battle cruiser and get in on a flank ship probably the moltke. the destroyer be very much on the alert and she have to dive at once to avoid one who only miss her by a few foot. then the fog shut down and stop further development. thus do time and chance come to every man. 
the trade ha many story too of watch patrol when a boat must see chance after chance go by under her nose and write merely write what she ha see. naturally they do not appear in any accessible record. nor which be a pity do the authority release the record of glorious failure when everything go wrong. when torpedo break surface and squat like duck. or arrive full square with a clang and burst of white water and fail to explode. when the devil be in charge of all the motor and clutch develop play that would scare a shore go mechanic bald. when battery begin to give off death instead of power and atop of all ice or wreckage of the strew sea rack and wrench the hull till the whole leak bag of trick limp home on six miss cylinder and one ditto propeller plus the indomitable will of the red eye husky scarecrow in charge. 
there might be bad thing in this world for decent people to read than such record. 
ii. 
business in the sea of marmara. 
this war be like an iceberg. we the public only see an eighth of it above water. the rest be out of sight and a with the berg one guess it extent by great block that break off and shoot up to the surface from some underlie out run spur a quarter of a mile away. so with this war sudden tale come to light which reveal unsuspected activity in unexpected quarter. one take it for grant such thing be always go on somewhere but the actual emergence of the record be always astonish. 
once upon a time there be certain e type boat who work the sea of marmara with thoroughness and humanity. for the two in english hand be compatible. the road to their hunt ground be strew with peril the water they inhabit be full of eye that give them no rest and what they lose or expend in wear and tear of the chase could not be make good till they have run the gauntlet to their base again. the full tale of their improvisation and makee doe will probably never come to light though fragment can be pick up at interval in the proper place a the men concern come and go. the admiralty give only the bone but those be not so dry of the boat s official story. 
when e commander e. courtney boyle go to her work in the sea of marmara she like her sister proceed on her gas engine up the dardanelles. and a gas engine by night between steep cliff ha be describe by the low deck a a full brass band in a railway cut. so a fort pick her up with a searchlight and miss her with artillery. she dive under the minefield that guard the strait and when she rise at dawn in the narrow part of the channel which be about one mile and a half across all the fort fire at her. the water too be thick with steamboat patrol out of which e select a turkish gunboat and give her a torpedo. she have just time to see the great column of water shoot a high a the gunboat s mast when she have to dip again a the men in a small steamboat be lean over try to catch hold of the top of my periscope. 
six hour of blind death. 
this sentence which might have come out of a french exercise book be all lieutenant commander courtney boyle see fit to tell and that officer will never understand why one taxpayer at least demand his arrest after the war till he shall have give the full tale. do he sight the shadowy underline of the small steamboat green through the deadlight. or do she suddenly swim into his vision from behind and obscure without warn his periscope with a single brown clutch hand. be she alone or one of a mob of splash shout small craft. he may well have be too busy to note for there be patrol all around him a minefield of curious design and undefined area somewhere in front and steam trawler vigorously sweep for him astern and ahead. and when e have burrow and bump and scrap through six hour of blind death she find the sea of marmara crawl with craft and be keep down almost continuously and grow hot and stuffy in consequence. nor could she charge her battery in peace so at the end of another hectic hunt day of start them up and break off and dive which be bad for the temper she decide to quit those infest water near the coast and charge up somewhere off the traffic route. 
this accomplish after a long hot run which do the motor no good she go back to her beat where she pick up three destroyer convoy a couple of troopship. but it be a glassy calm and the destroyer come for me. she get off a long range torpedo at one transport and duck before she could judge result. she apologise for this on the ground that one of her periscope have be damage not a one would expect by the gentleman lean out of the little steamboat but by some casual shoot calibre not specify the day before. and so say e i could not risk my remain one be bend. however she hear a thud and the depth gauge those great clock hand on the white face circle flick which be another sign of dreadful certainty down under. when she rise again she saw a destroyer convoy one burn transport to the near beach. that afternoon she meet a sister boat. now go to valhalla. who tell her that she be almost out of torpedo and they arrange a rendezvous for next day but before we could communicate we have to dive and i do not see her again. there must be many such meeting in the trade under all sky boat rise beside boat at the point agree upon for interchange of news and material. the talk shout aloud with the speaker eye always on the horizon and all hand stand by to dive even in the middle of a sentence. 
annoy patrol ship. 
e keep to her job on the edge of the procession of traffic. patrol vessel annoy her to such an extent that a i have not see any transport lately i decide to sink a patrol ship a they be always fire on me. so she torpedo a thing that look like a mine layer and must have be something of that kidney for it sink in le than a minute. a tramp steamer lumber across the dead flat sea be thoughtfully head back to constantinople by fire rifle ahead of her. under fire the whole day e observe philosophically. the nature of her work make this inevitable. she be all among the patrol which keep her down a good deal and make her draw on her battery and when she rise to charge watcher ashore burn oil flare on the beach or make smoke among the hill accord to the light. in either case there would be a general rush of patrol craft of all kind from steam launch to gunboat. nobody love the trade though e do several thing which make her popular. she let off a string of very surprise dhow. they be empty. in charge of a tug which promptly flee back to constantinople. stop a couple of steamer full of refugee also bind for constantinople who be very please at be allow to proceed instead of be lusitaniaed a they have expect. another refugee boat flee from goodness know what horror she chase into rodosto harbour where though she could not see any troop they open a heavy rifle fire on u hit the boat several time. so i go away and chase two more small tramp who return towards constantinople. 
transport of course be fair game and in spite of the necessity she be under of not risk her remain eye e get a big one in a night of wind and make another hurriedly beach itself which then open fire on her assist by the local population. return fire and proceed say e. the diversion of return fire be one much appreciate by the low deck a furnish a pleasant break in what otherwise might be a monotonous and odoriferous task. there be no drill lay down for this evolution but etiquette and custom prescribe that on go up the hatch you shall not too energetically prod the next man ahead with the muzzle of your rifle. likewise when descend in quick time before the hatch close you be request not to jump directly on the head of the next below. otherwise you act a requisite on your own initiative. 
when she have use up all her torpedo e prepare to go home by the way she have come there be no other and be chase towards gallipoli by a mix pack compose of a gunboat a torpedo boat and a tug. they shepherd me to gallipoli one each side of me and one astern evidently expect me to be catch by the net there. she walk very delicately for the next eight hour or so all down the strait underrunning the strong tide duck down when the fire from the fort get too hot verify her position and the position of the minefield but always take note of every ship in sight till towards teatime she saw our navy off the entrance and rise to the surface abeam of a french battleship who give u a rouse cheer. she have be away a nearly a possible three week and a kind destroyer escort her to the base where we will leave her for the moment while we consider the performance of e. lieutenant commander m. e. nasmith. in the same water at about the same season. 
e proceed in the usual way to the usual accompaniment of hostile destroyer up the strait and meet the usual difficulty about charge up when she get through. her wireless naturally take this opportunity to give trouble and e be leave deaf and dumb somewhere in the middle of the sea of marmara dive to avoid hostile destroyer in the interval of try to come at the fault in her aerial. yet it be noteworthy that the language of the trade though technical be no more emphatic or incandescent than that of top side ship. 
then she go towards constantinople find a turkish torpedo gunboat off the port sink her ha her periscope smash by a six pounder retire fit a new top on the periscope and at. a. m. they must have need it pipe all hand to bathe. much refresh she get her wireless link up at last and be able to tell the authority where she be and what she be after. 
mr. silas q. swing. 
at this point it be off rodosto enter a small steamer which doe not halt when request and so be fire at with several round from a rifle. the crew on be tell to abandon her tumble into their boat with such haste that they capsize two out of three. fortunately say e they be able to pick up everybody. you can imagine to yourself the confusion alongside the raffle of odds and end float out of the boat and the general parti colour hurrah s nest all over the bright break water. what you cannot imagine be this. an american gentleman then appear on the upper deck who inform u that his name be silas q. swing of the chicago sun_ and that he be please to make our acquaintance. he then inform u that the steamer be proceed to chanak and he wasn t sure if there be any store aboard. if anything could astonish the trade at this late date one would almost fancy that the apparition of silas q. swing. very happy to meet you gentleman. might have start a rivet or two on e s placid skin. but she never even quiver. she keep a lieutenant of the name of d oyley hughes an expert in demolition party. and he go aboard the tramp and report any quantity of store a six inch gun for instance lash across the top of the forehatch. silas q. swing must have be an unobservant journalist. a six inch gun mount in the forehold pedestal for twelve pounder throw in a dunnage the afterhold full of six inch projectile and a scatter of other commodity. they put the demolition charge well in among the six inch stuff and she take it all to the bottom in a few minute after be touch off. 
simultaneously with the sink of the vessel the e go on smoke be observe to the eastward. it be a steamer who have see the explosion and be run for rodosto. e chase her till she tie up to rodosto pier and then torpedo her where she lay a heavily lade store ship pile high with pack case. the water be shallow here and though e bump along the bottom which doe not make for steadiness of aim she be force to show a good deal of her only periscope and have it dent but not damage by rifle fire from the beach. a she move out of rodosto bay she saw a paddle boat load with barb wire which stop on the hail but a we range alongside her attempt to ram u but fail owe to our superior speed. then she run for the beach very skilfully keep her stern to e till she drive ashore beneath some cliff. the demolition squad be just get to work when a party of horseman appear on the cliff above and open a hot fire on the con tower. e get out but owe to the shoal water it be some time before she could get under enough to fire a torpedo. the stern of a strand paddle boat be no great target and the thing explode on the beach. then she recharge battery and proceed slowly on the surface towards constantinople. all this between the ordinary office hour of a. m. and p. m. 
her next day s work open a no pallid writer of fiction dare begin thus. have dive unobserved into constantinople observe etc. her observation be rather hamper by cross tide mud and current a well a the vagary of one of her own torpedo which turn upside down and run about promiscuously. it hit something at last and so do another shoot that she fire but the water by constantinople arsenal be not healthy to linger in after one ha scar up the whole sea front so turn to go out. matter be a little good below and e in her perilous passage might have be a lady of the harem tie up in a sack and throw into the bosporus. she ground heavily. she bounce up foot be head down again by a manoeuvre easy to shudder over than to describe and when she come to rest on the bottom find herself be swivel right round the compass. they watch the compass with much interest. it be conclude therefore that the vessel. e be one of the few who speak of herself a a vessel a well a a boat. be rest on the shoal under the leander tower and be be turn round by the current. so they correct her start the motor and bump gently down into foot of water with no more knowledge than the lady in the sack where the next bump would land them. 
the preen perch. 
and the follow day be spend rest in the centre of the sea of marmara. that be their favourite preen perch between operation because it give them a chance to tidy the boat and bathe and they be a cleanly people both in their method and their person. when they board a craft and find nothing of consequence they part with many expression of good will and e have a good wash. she give her reason at length. for go in and out of constantinople and the strait be all in the day s work but go dirty you understand be serious. she have of late notice the atmosphere in the boat become very oppressive the reason doubtless be that there be a quantity of dirty linen aboard and also the scarcity of fresh water necessitate a limit be place on the frequency of personal wash. hence the centre of the sea of marmara. all hand play overside and a much laundry work a time and the service allow. one of the reason by the way why we shall be good friend with the turk again be that he ha many of our idea about decency. 
in due time e go back to her base. she have discover a way of use unspent torpedo twice over which surprise the enemy and she have a nearly a possible be cut down by a ship which she think be run away from her. instead of which. she make the discovery at three thousand yard both craft all out. the strange steam straight at her. the enemy then witness a somewhat spectacular dive at full speed from the surface to foot in a many second. he then really do turn tail and be see no more. go through the strait she observe an empty troopship at anchor but reserve her torpedo in the hope of pick up some battleship low down. not find these in the narrow she nose her way back and sink the trooper afterwards continue journey down the strait. off kilid bahr something happen. she get out of trim and have to be fully flood before she could be bring to her require depth. it might have be whirlpool under water or other thing. they tell a story of a boat which once go mad in these very water and for no reason ascertainable from within plunge to depth that contractor do not allow for. rocket up again like a swordfish and would doubtless have so continue till she die have not something she have foul drop off and let her recover her composure. 
an hour late. hear a noise similar to ground. know this to be impossible in the water in which the boat then be i come up to foot to investigate and observe a large mine precede the periscope at a distance of about foot which be apparently hang up by it mooring to the port hydroplane. hydroplane be the fin at bow and stern which regulate a submarine s dive. a mine weigh anything from hundredweight to half ton. sometimes it explode if you merely think about it. at others you can batter it like an empty sardine tin and it submit meekly. but at no time be it mean to wear on a hydroplane. they dare not come up to unhitch it owe to the battery ashore so they push the dim shape ahead of them till they get outside kum kale. they then go full astern and empty the after tank which bring the bow down and in this posture rise to the surface when the rush of water from the screw together with the sternway gather allow the mine to fall clear of the vessel. 
now a fool say dr. johnson would have try to describe that. 
iii. 
ravage and repair. 
before we pick up the further adventure of h. m. submarine e and her partner e here be what you might call a cut out affair in the sea of marmara which e. lieutenant commander k. m. bruce. put through quite on the old line. 
e s main motor give trouble from the first and she seem to have be a cripple for most of that trip. she sight two small steamer one tow two and the other three sail vessel. make seven keel in all. she stop the first steamer notice she carry a lot of store and moreover that her crew she have no boat be all on deck in life belt. not see any gun e run up alongside and tell the first lieutenant to board. the steamer then throw a bomb at e which strike but luckily do not explode and open fire on the board party with rifle and a conceal in. gun. e answer with her six pounder and also with rifle. the two sail ship in tow very properly try to foul e s propeller and also open fire with rifle. 
it be a orientally mix a fight a a man could wish. the first lieutenant and the board party engage on the steamer e foul of the steamer and be foul by the sail ship. the six pounder methodically perforate the steamer from bow to stern. the steamer s in. gun and the rifle from the sail ship rake everything and everybody else. e s coxswain on the con tower pass up ammunition. and e s one workable motor develop slight defect at of course the moment when power to manoeuvre be vital. 
the account be almost a difficult to disentangle a the actual mess must have be. at any rate the six pounder cause an explosion in the steamer s ammunition whereby the steamer sink in a quarter of an hour give time and a hot time it must have be for e to get clear of her and to sink the two sail ship. she then chase the second steamer who slip her three tow and run for the shore. e knock her about a good deal with gun fire a she flee saw her drive on the beach well alight and then since the beach open fire with a gun at yard go away to retinker her motor and write up her log. she approve of her first lieutenant s behaviour under very try circumstance. this probably refer to the explosion of the ammunition by the six pounder which doubtless jar the board party. and of the cox who act a ammunition hoist. and of the gun s crew who all do very well under rifle and small gun fire at a range of about ten yard. but she never say what she really say about her motor. 
a brawl at a pier. 
now we will take e on various work either alone or a flagship of a squadron compose of herself and lieutenant commander nasmith s boat e. hers be a busy midsummer and she come to be intimate with all sort of craft such a the two funnel gunboat off sar kioi who fire at u and miss a usual. hospital ship go back and forth unmolested to constantinople. the gunboat which fire at me on sunday and other old friend afloat and ashore. 
when the crew of the turkish brigantine full of store get into their boat by request and then all stand up and curse u e do not lose her temper even though it be too rough to lie alongside the abandon ship. she tell act lieutenant r. w. lawrence of the royal naval reserve to swim off to her which he do and after a cursory search who can be expect to sherlock holmes for hour with nothing on. set fire to her with the aid of her own match and paraffin oil. 
then e have a brawl with a steamer with a yellow funnel blue top and black band lie at a pier among dhow. the shore take a hand in the game with small gun and rifle and a e manoeuvre about the roadstead a requisite there be a sudden unaccountable explosion which strain her very badly. i think she mus i must have catch the mooring of a mine with my tail a i be turn and explode it. it be possible that it might have be a big shell burst over u but i think this unlikely a we be foot at the time. she be always a philosophical boat anxious to arrive at the reason of fact and when the game be against her she admit it freely. 
there be nondescript craft of a few hundred ton who at a distance do not look very warlike but when chase suddenly play a couple of six pounder and get off two dozen round at u before we be under. some of them be only about yard off. and when a wily steamer after sidle along the shore lay up in front of a town she become indistinguishable from the house and so be safe because we do not löwestrafe open town. 
sail dhow full of grain have to be destroy. at one rendezvous while wait for e e deal with three such case and then tow the crew inshore and give them biscuit beef and rum and water a they be rather wet. passenger steamer be allow to proceed because they be full of people of both sex which be an unkultured way of do business. 
here be another instance of our insular type of mind. an empty dhow be pass which e be go to leave alone but it occur to her that the boat look rather desert and she fancy she see two head in the water. so she go back half a mile pick up a couple of badly exhaust men frighten out of their wit give them food and drink and put them aboard their property. crew that jump overboard have to be pick up even if a happen in one case there be twenty of them and one of them be a german bank manager take a quantity of money to the chanak bank. hospital ship be carefully look over a they come and go and be leave to their own device. but they be rather a nuisance because they force e and others to dive for them when engage in stalk warrantable game. there be a good many hospital ship and a far a we can make out they all play fair. e board one and report everything satisfactory. 
strange messmate. 
a layman cannot tell from the report which of the duty demand the most work whether the continuous clear out of transport dhow and sail ship generally find close to the well gun and attentive beach or the equally continuous attack on arm vessel of every kind. whatever else might be go on there be always the problem how to arrange for the crew of sink ship. if a dhow ha no small boat and you cannot find one handy you have to take the crew aboard where they be horribly in the way and add to the oppressiveness of the atmosphere like the nine people include two very old men whom e make honorary member of her mess for several hour till she could put them ashore after dark. oddly enough she could not get anything out of them. imagine nine bewilder moslem suddenly decant into the reek clamorous bowel of a fabric obviously build by shaitan himself and surround by but our people be people of the book and not dog eat kaffir and i will wager a great deal that that little company go ashore in good heart and stomach than when they be pass down the con tower hatch. 
then there be queer amphibious battle with troop who have to be shell a they march towards gallipoli along the coast road. e go out with e on this job early one morning each boat take her choose section of landscape. thrice e rise to fire think she saw the dust of foot but each time it turn out to be bullock. when the shell be end i think the troop march along that road must have be delay and a good many kill. the turk get up a field gun in the course of the afternoon your true believer never hurry which out range both boat and they leave accordingly. 
the next day she change billet with e who have the luck to pick up and put down a battleship close to gallipoli. it turn out to be the barbarossa. meantime e get a ton supply ship and late have to burn a sail ship load with bale of leaf and cut tobacco turkish tobacco. small wonder that e come alongside that afternoon and remain for an hour probably make cigarette. 
refit under difficulty. 
then e go back to her base. she have a hellish time among the dardanelles net. be of course fire at by the fort just miss a torpedo from the beach scrap a mine and when she have time to take stock find electric mine wire twist round her propeller and all her hull scrap and score with wire mark. but that again be only in the day s work. the point she insist upon be that she have be for seventy day in the sea of marmara with no secure base for refit than the centre of the same and during all that while she have not have any engine room defect which ha not be put right by the engine room staff of the boat. the commander and the third officer go sick for a while. the first lieutenant get gastro enteritis and be in bed. if you could see that bed. for the remainder of our stay in the sea of marmara but this boat ha never be out of run order. the credit be ascribe to the excellence of my chief engine room artificer jam hollier hague o. n. whose name be duly submit to the authority for your consideration for advancement to the rank of warrant officer. 
seventy day of every conceivable sort of risk within and without in a boat which be all engine room except where she be sick bay. twelve thousand mile cover since last overhaul and never out of run order thank to mr. hague. such artist a he be the kind of engine room artificer that commander intrigue to get hold of each for his own boat and when the tale be tell in the trade their name like abou ben adhem s lead all the rest. 
i do not know the exact line of demarcation between engine room and gunnery repair but i imagine it be faint and fluid. e for example while she be help e to shell a beach steamer smash half her gun mount the gun layer be throw overboard and the gun nearly follow him. however the mischief be repair in the next twenty four hour which consider the very limit deck space of a submarine mean that all hand must have be moderately busy. one hope that they have not to dive often during the job. 
but bad be to come. e. commander d. stock. carry an externally mount gun which while she be dive up the dardanelles on business get hang up in the wire and stay of a net. she saw them through the con tower scuttle at a depth of ft one wire hawser round the gun another round the con tower and so on. there be a continuous crackle of small explosion overhead which she think be charge aim at her by the guard boat who watch the net. she consider her position for a while back get up steam barge ahead and shore through the whole affair in one wild surge. imagine the roof of a navigable cottage after it ha snap telegraph line with it chimney and you will get a small idea of what happen to the hull of a submarine when she us her gun to break wire hawser with. 
trouble with a gun. 
e be a wet strain and uncomfortable boat for the rest of her cruise. she sink steamer burn dhow. be worry by torpedo boat and hunt by hun plane. hit bottom freely and frequently. silence fort that fire at her from lonely beach. warn village who might have join in the game that they have good keep to farm. shell railway line and station. would have shell a pier but find there be a hospital build at one end of it so could not bombard. come upon dhow crowd with female refugee which she allow to proceed and be present with fowl in return. but through it all her chief preoccupation be that rack and strain gun and mount. when there be nothing else do she report sourly that she work on gun. a a philosopher of the low deck put it. tisn t what you blanky do that matter it s what you blanky have to do. in other word worry not work kill. 
e s gun do it best to knock the heart out of them all. she have to shift the wretched thing twice. once because the bolt that hold it down be smash. the wire hawser must have pretty well pull it off it seat. and again because the hull beneath it leak on pressure. she go down to make sure of it. but she drill and tap and adjust till in a short time the gun work again and kill steamer a it should. meanwhile the whole boat leak. all the plate under the old gun position forward leak. she leak aft through damage hydroplane guard and on her way home they have to keep the water down by hand pump while she be dive through the net. where she do not leak outside she leak internally tank leak into tank so that the petrol get into the main fresh water supply and the men have to be put on allowance. the last pint be serve out when she be in the narrow part of the narrow a place where one s mouth may well go dry of a sudden. 
here for the moment the record end. i have be at some pain not to pick and choose among them. so far from doctor or heighten any of the incident i have rather understate them. but i hope i have make it clear that through all the haste and fury of these multiply action when life and death and destruction turn on the twitch of a finger not one life of any non combatant be wittingly take. they be carefully pick up or pick out take below transfer to boat and despatch or personally conduct in the interval of business to the safe unexploding beach. sometimes they part from their chaperone with many expression of good will at others they seem greatly relieve and rather surprise at not be knock on the head after the custom of their ally. but the boat with a hundred thing on their mind no more take credit for their humanity than their commander explain the feat for which they win their respective decoration. 
destroyer at jutland. 

have you news of my boy jack. not this tide. when d you think that he ll come back. not with this wind blow and this tide. 
ha any one else have word of him. not this tide. for what be sink will hardly swim not with this wind blow and this tide. 
oh dear what comfort can i find. none this tide nor any tide except he didn t shame his kind not even with that wind blow and that tide. 
then hold your head up all the more this tide and every tide because he be the son you bore and give to that wind blow and that tide. 
i. 
story of the battle. 
cripple and paralytic. 
there be much destroyer work in the battle of jutland. the actual battle field may not have be more than twenty thousand square mile but the incidental patrol from first to last must have cover many time that area. doubtless the next generation will comb out every detail of it. all we need remember be there be many squadron of battleship and cruiser engage over the face of the north sea and that they be accompany in their dread coming and going by multitude of destroyer who attack the enemy both by day and by night from the afternoon of may to the morning of june. we be too close to the gigantic canvas to take in the mean of the picture. our child step backward through the year may get the true perspective and proportion. 
to recapitulate what every one know. 
the german fleet come out of it north sea port scout ship ahead. then destroyer cruiser battle cruiser and last the main battle fleet in the rear. it move north parallel with the coast of steal schleswig holstein and jutland. our fleet be already out. the main battle fleet. admiral jellicoe. sweep down from the north and our battle cruiser fleet. admiral beatty. feel for the enemy. our scout come in contact with the enemy on the afternoon of may about mile off the jutland coast steer north west. they satisfy themselves he be in strength and report accordingly to our battle cruiser fleet which engage the enemy s battle cruiser at about half past three o clock. the enemy steer south east to rejoin their own fleet which be come up from that quarter. we fight him on a parallel course a he run for more than an hour. 
then his battle fleet come in sight and beatty s fleet go about and steer north west in order to retire on our battle fleet which be hurry down from the north. we return fight very much over the same water a we have use in our slant south. the enemy up till now have lie to the eastward of u whereby he have the advantage in that thick weather of see our hull clear against the afternoon light while he himself work in the mist. we then steer a little to the north west bear him off towards the east till at six o clock beatty have head the enemy s lead ship and our main battle fleet come in sight from the north. the enemy break back in a loop first eastward then south then south west a our fleet edge him off from the land and our main battle fleet come up behind them follow in their wake. thus for a while we have the enemy to westward of u where he make a good mark. but the day be close and the weather thicken and the enemy want to get away. at a quarter past eight the enemy still head south west be cover by his destroyer in a great screen of grey smoke and he get away. 
night and morning. 
a darkness fell our fleet lay between the enemy and his home port. during the night our heavy ship keep well clear of possible mine field sweep down south to south and west of the horn reef so that they might pick him up in the morning. when morning come our main fleet could find no trace of the enemy to the southward but our destroyer flotilla further north have be very busy with enemy ship apparently run for the horn reef channel. it look then a if when we lose sight of the enemy in the smoke screen and the darkness he have change course and break for home astern our main fleet. and whether that be a sound manoeuvre or otherwise he and the still flow of the north sea alone can tell. 
but how be a layman to give any coherent account of an affair where a whole country s coast line be background to battle cover geographical degree. the record give an impression of illimitable grey water nick on their uncertain horizon with the smudge and blur of ship sparkle with fury against ship hide under the curve of the world. one see these distance maddeningly obscure by walk mist and weak fog or wipe out by layer of funnel and gun smoke and realise how at the pace the ship be go anything might be stumble upon in the haze or charge out of it when it lift. one comprehend too how the far off glare of a great vessel afire might be report a a local fire on a near by enemy or vice versa. how a silhouette catch for an instant in a shaft of pale light let down from the low sky might be fatally difficult to identify till too late. but add to all these inevitable confusion and misreckoning of time shape and distance charge at every angle of squadron through and across other squadron. sudden shift of the centre of the fight and even swift restoration. wheeling sweeping and regroupments such a accompany the passage across space of collide universe. then blanket the whole inferno with the darkness of night at full speed and see what you can make of it. 
three destroyer. 
a little time after the action begin to heat up between our battle cruiser and the enemy s eight or ten of our destroyer open the ball for their branch of the service by break up the attack of an enemy light cruiser and fifteen destroyer. of these they account for at least two destroyer some think more and drive the others back on their battle cruiser. this scatter that fight a good deal over the sea. three of our destroyer hold on for the enemy s battle fleet who come down on them at range which eventually grow le than yard. our people ought to have be lift off the sea bodily but they manage to fire a couple of torpedo apiece while the range be diminish. they have no illusion. say one of the three speak of her second shoot which she loose at fairly close range this torpedo be fire because it be consider very unlikely that the ship would escape disablement before another opportunity offer. but still they live three destroyer against all a battle cruiser fleet s quick firers a well a the fire of a batch of enemy destroyer at yard. and they be thankful for small mercy. the position be favourable a third torpedo be fire from each while they yet float. 
at yard one destroyer be hit somewhere in the vitals and swerve badly across her next astern who be oblige to alter course to avoid a collision thereby fail to fire a fourth torpedo. then that next astern observe signal for destroyer recall and go back to report to her flotilla captain alone. of her two companion one be badly hit and remain stop between the line. the other remain stop but be afloat when last see. ship that remain stop be liable to be ram or sink by methodical gun fire. that be perhaps fifty minute work put in before there be any really vicious edge to the action and it do not steady the nerve of the enemy battle cruiser any more than another attack make by another detachment of ours. 
what doe one do when one pass a ship that remain stop. i ask of a youth who have have experience. 
nothing special. they cheer and you cheer back. one doesn t think about it till afterwards. you see it may be your luck in another minute. 
luck. 
there be many other torpedo attack in all part of the battle that misty afternoon include a quaint episode of an enemy light cruiser who look a if she be try to torpedo one of our battle cruiser while the latter be particularly engage. a destroyer of ours return from a special job which require delicacy be pick her way back at knot through batch of enemy battle cruiser and light cruiser with the idea of attach herself to the near destroyer flotilla and make herself useful. it occur to her that a she be in a most advantageous position for repel enemy s destroyer endeavour to attack she could not do good than to remain on the engage bow of our battle cruiser. so she remain and consider thing. 
there be an enemy battle cruiser squadron in the off. with several enemy light cruiser ahead of that squadron and the weather be thickish and deceptive. she sight the enemy light cruiser class uncertain only a few thousand yard away and decide to attack her in order to frustrate her fire torpedo at our battle fleet. this in case the authority should think that light cruiser wish to buy rubber. so she fell upon the light cruiser with every gun she have at between two and four thousand yard and secure a number of hit just the same a at target practice. while thus occupy she sight out of the mist a squadron of enemy battle cruiser that have worry her early in the afternoon. leave the light cruiser she close to what she consider a reasonable distance of the newcomer and let them have a she think both her torpedo. she possess an active act sub lieutenant who though officer of that rank think otherwise be not very far remove from an ordinary midshipman of the type one see in tow of relative at the army and navy store. he sit astride one of the tube to make quite sure thing be in order and fire when the sight come on. 
but_ at that very moment a big shell hit the destroyer on the side and there be a tremendous escape of steam. believe since she have see one torpedo leave the tube before the smash come believe that both her tube have be fire the destroyer turn away at greatly reduce speed. the shell reduce it. and pass quite reasonably close the light cruiser whom she have be hammer so faithfully till the large game appear. meantime the sub lieutenant be explore what damage have be do by the big shell. he discover that only one of the two torpedo have leave the tube and observe enemy light cruiser beam on and apparently temporarily stop he fire the providential remainder at her and it hit her below the con tower and well and truly explode a be witness by the sub lieutenant himself the commander a lead signalman and several other rating. luck continue to hold. the act sub lieutenant further report that we still have three torpedo leave and at the same time draw my attention to enemy s line of battleship. they rather look a if they be come down with intent to assault. so the sub lieutenant fire the rest of the torpedo which at least start off correctly from the shell shake tube and must have cross the enemy s line. when torpedo turn up among a squadron they upset the steer and distract the attention of all concern. then the destroyer judge it time to take stock of her injury. among other minor defect she could neither steam steer nor signal. 
tow under difficulty. 
mark how virtue be reward. another of our destroyer an hour or so previously have be knock clean out of action before she have do anything by a big shell which gutted a boiler room and start an oil fire. that be the drawback to oil. she crawl out between the battleship till she reach an area of comparative calm and repair damage. she say. the fire have be deal with it be find a mat keep the stokehold dry. my only trouble now be lack of speed i look round for useful employment and saw a destroyer in great difficulty so close her. that destroyer be our paralytic friend of the intermittent torpedo tube and a grateful ship she be when her cripple sister. but still good for a few knot. offer her a tow under very try condition with large enemy ship approach. so the two set off together cripple and paralytic with heavy shell fall round them a sociable a a couple of lame hound. cripple work up to knot and the weather grow vile and the tow part. paralytic by this time have raise steam in a boiler or two and make shift to get along slowly on her own cripple hirpling beside her till paralytic could not make any more headway in that rise sea and cripple have to tow her once more. once more the tow part. so they tie paralytic up rudely and effectively with a cable round her after bollard and gun. presumably because of strain forward bulkhead. and haul her stern first through heavy sea at continually reduce speed doubtful of their position unable to sound because of the sea and much pester by a wind which back without warn till at last they make land and turn into the hospital appoint for brave wound ship. everybody speak well of cripple. her name crop up in several report with such compliment a the men of the sea use when they see good work. she herself speak well of her lieutenant who a executive officer take charge of the fire and tow arrangement in a very creditable manner and also of tom battye and thomas kerr engine room artificer and stoker petty officer who be in the stokehold at the time of the shell strike and perform cool and prompt decisive action although both suffer from shock and slight injury. 
useful employment. 
have you ever notice that men who do homeric deed often describe them in homeric language. the sentence i look round for useful employment be worthy of ulysses when there be an evil sound at the ship of men who perish and of the ship themselves break at the same time. 
roughly very roughly speak our destroyer enjoy three phase of prompt decisive action the first a period of daylight attack. from to p. m. such a the one i have just describe while the battle be young and the light fairly good on the afternoon of may. the second towards dark when the light have lessen and the enemy be more uneasy and i think in more scatter formation. the third when darkness have fall and the destroyer have be string out astern with order to help the enemy home which they do all night a opportunity offer. one cannot say whether the day or the night work be the more desperate. from private advice the young gentleman concern seem to have function with efficiency either way. a one of them say. after a bite you see we be all pretty much on our own and you could really find out what your ship could do. 
i will tell you late of a piece of night work not without merit. 
ii. 
the night hunt. 
ram an enemy cruiser. 
a i say we will confine ourselves to something quite sane and simple which doe not involve more than half a dozen different report. 
when the german fleet run for home on the night of may it seem to have scatter star i believe be the word for the evolution in a general sauve qui peut_ while the devil livelily represent by our destroyer take the hindmost. our flotilla be string out far and wide on this job. one man compare it to hound hunt half a hundred separate fox. 
i take the adventure of several couple of destroyer who on the night of may be nose along somewhere towards the schleswig holstein coast ready to chop any hun stuff come back to earth by that particular road. the leader of one line be gehenna and the next two ship astern of her be eblis and shaitan in the order give. there be others of course but with the exception of one goblin they don t come violently into this tale. there have be a good deal of promiscuous fire that even and action be go on all round. towards midnight our destroyer be overtake by several three and four funnel german ship. cruiser they think. hurry home. at this stage of the game anybody might have be anybody pursuer or pursue. the german take no chance but switch on their searchlight and open fire on gehenna. her act sub lieutenant report. a salvo hit u forward. i open fire with the after gun. a shell then strike u in a steam pipe and i could see nothing but steam. but both starboard torpedo tube be fire. 
eblis gehenna s next astern at once fire a torpedo at the second ship in the german line a four funnel cruiser and hit her between the second funnel and the mainmast when she appear to catch fire fore and aft simultaneously heel right over to starboard and undoubtedly sink. eblis loose off a second torpedo and turn aside to reload fire at the same time to distract the enemy s attention from gehenna who be now ablaze fore and aft. gehenna s act sub lieutenant. the only executive officer who survive. say that by the time the steam from the break pipe clear he find gehenna stop nearly everybody amidships kill or wound the cartridge box round the gun explode one after the other a the fire take hold and the enemy not to be see. three minute or le do all that damage. eblis have nearly finish reload when a shoot strike the davit that be swing her last torpedo into the tube and wound all hand concern. thereupon she drop torpedo work fire at an enemy searchlight which wink and go out and be close in to help gehenna when she find herself under the nose of a couple of enemy cruiser. the near one he say alter course to ram me apparently. the senior service write in curiously lawyer like fashion but there be no deny that they act quite directly. i therefore put my helm hard aport and the two ship meet and ram each other port bow to port bow. there could have be no time to think and for eblis s commander on the bridge none to gather information. but he have observant subordinate and he write and i would humbly suggest that the word be make the ship s motto for evermore he write those aft note that the enemy cruiser have certain mark on her funnel and certain arrangement of derrick on each side which quite apart from the evidence she leave behind her betray her class. eblis and she meet. say eblis. i consider i must have considerably damage this cruiser a foot of her side plat be leave in my foc sle. twenty foot of rag rivet sling steel razor and reap about in the dark on a foc sle that have collapse like a concertina. it be very fair plat too. there be side scuttle hole in it what we passenger would call porthole. but it might have be good for eblis report sorrowfully by the thickness of the coat of paint. duly give in nd of the inch. she would not appear to have be a very new ship. 
a fugitive on fire. 
new or old the enemy have do her best. she have completely demolish eblis s bridge and searchlight platform bring down the mast and the fore funnel ruin the whaler and the dinghy split the foc sle open above water from the stem to the galley which be abaft the bridge and below water have open it up from the stem to the second bulkhead. she have further rip off eblis s skin plat for an amaze number of yard on one side of her and have fire a couple of large calibre shell into eblis at point blank range narrowly miss her vitals. even so eblis be a impartial a a prize court. she report that the second shoot a trifle of eight inch may have be fire at a different time or just after collide. but the night be yet young and just after get clear of this cruiser an enemy battle cruiser graze past our stern at high speed and again the judgmatic mind i think she must have intend to ram u. she be a large three funnel thing her centre funnel shoot away and light be flicker under her foc sle a if she be on fire forward. fancy the vision of her hurtle out of the dark red light from within and flee on like a man with his throat cut. 
[as an interlude all enemy cruiser that night be not keen on ram. they want to get home. a man i know who be on another part of the drive saw a covey bolt through our destroyer. and have just settle himself for a shoot at one of them when the night throw up a second bird come down full speed on his other beam. he have bare time to jink between the two a they whiz past. one switch on her searchlight and fire a whole salvo at him point blank. the heavy stuff go between his funnel. she must have sight along her own beam of light which be about a thousand yard. 
how do you feel. i ask. 
i be rather sick. it be my best chance all that night and i have to miss it or be cut in two. 
what happen to the cruiser. 
oh they go on and i hear em be attend to by some of our fellow. they didn t know what they be do or they couldn t have miss me sit the way they do. ]. 
the confidential book. 
after all that eblis pick herself up and discover that she be still alive with a dog s chance of get to port. but she do not bank on it. that grand slam have wreck the bridge pin the commander under the wreckage. by the time he have extricate himself he consider it advisable to throw overboard the steel chest and dispatch box of confidential and secret book. these be never allow to fall into strange hand and their proper disposal be the last step but one in the ritual of the burial service of his majesty s ship at sea. gehenna afire and sink out somewhere in the dark be go through it on her own account. this be her act sub lieutenant s report. the confidential book be get up. the first lieutenant give the order. every man aft and the confidential book be throw overboard. the ship soon afterwards heel over to starboard and the bow go under. the first lieutenant give the order. everybody for themselves. the ship sink in about a minute the stern go straight up into the air. 
but it be not write in the book of fate that strip and batter eblis should die that night a gehenna die. after the burial of the book it be find that the several fire on her be manageable that she be not make water aft of the damage which mean two third of her be more or le in commission and best of all that three boiler be usable in spite of the cruiser s shell. so she shape course and speed to make the least water and the most progress towards land. on the way back the wind shift eight point without warn it be this shift if you remember that so embarrass cripple and paralytic on their homeward crawl and what with one thing and another eblis be unable to make port till the scandalously late hour of noon on june the mutual ram have occur about. p. m. on may. she say this time without any legal reservation whatever i cannot speak too highly of the courage discipline and devotion of the officer and ship s company. 
her recommendation be a compendium of godly deed for the use of mariner. they cover pretty much all that man may be expect to do. there be a there always be a first lieutenant who while his commander be be extricate from the bridge wreckage take charge of affair and steer the ship first from the engine room or what remain of it and late from aft and otherwise manoeuvre a requisite among doubtful bulkhead. in his leisure he improvise mean of signal and if there be not one joyous story behind that smooth sentence i be a hun. 
the art of improvise. 
they all improvise like the master of craft they be. the chief engine room artificer after he have help to put out fire improvise stop to the gap which be leave by the carry away of the forward funnel and mast. he get and keep up steam to a much high point than would have appear at all possible and when the sea rise a it always doe if you be in trouble he improvise pump and drainage arrangement thus allow the ship to steam at a good speed on the whole. there could not have be more than foot of hole. 
the surgeon a probationer perform an amputation single hand in the wreckage by the bridge and by his wonderful skill resource and unceasing care and devotion undoubtedly save the life of the many seriously wound men. that no horror might be lack there be a short circuit among the bridge wreckage for a considerable time. the searchlight and wireless be tangle up together and the electricity leak into everything. 
there be also three wise men who save the ship whose name must not be forget. they be chief engine room artificer lee stoker petty officer gardiner and stoker elvins. when the funnel carry away it be touch and go whether the foremost boiler would not explode. these three put on respirator and keep the fan go till all fume etc. be clear away. to each man you will observe his own particular hell which he enter of his own particular initiative. 
lastly there be the two remain quartermaster mutinous dog both of em one wound in the right hand and the other in the leave who take the wheel between them all the way home thus improvise one complete navy pattern quartermaster and refuse to be relieve during the whole thirty six hour before the ship return to port. so eblis pass out of the picture with never a moan or complaint from a single wound man and in spite of the rough weather of june st they all remain cheery. they have one hun cruiser torpedo to their credit and strong evidence abroad that they have knock the end out of another. 
but gehenna go down and those of her crew who remain hang on to the raft that destroyer carry till they be pick up about the dawn by shaitan third in the line who at that hour be in no shape to give much help. here be shaitan s tale. she saw the unknown cruiser overtake the flotilla saw their leader switch on searchlight and open fire a she draw abreast of gehenna and at once fire a torpedo at the third german ship. shaitan could not see eblis her next ahead for a we know eblis after fire her torpedo have haul off to reload. when the enemy switch his searchlight off shaitan haul out too. it be not wholesome for destroyer to keep on the same course within a thousand yard of big enemy cruiser. 
she pick up a destroyer of another division goblin who for the moment have not be catch by the enemy s searchlight and have profit by this decent obscurity to fire a torpedo at the hindmost of the cruiser. almost a shaitan take station behind goblin the latter be light up by a large ship and heavily fire at. the enemy flee but she leave goblin out of control with a grisly list of casualty and her helm jam. goblin swerve return and swerve again. shaitan astern try to clear her and the two fell aboard each other goblin s bow deep in shaitan s fore bridge. while they hang thus lock an unknown destroyer ram shaitan aft cut off several foot of her stern and leave her rudder jam hard over. a complete a mess a the personal devil himself could have devise and all due to the mere accident of a few panicky salvo. presently the two ship work clear in a smother of steam and oil and go their several way. quite a while after she have part from shaitan goblin discover several of shaitan s people some of them wound on her own foc sle where they have be pitch by the collision. goblin work her way homeward on such boiler a remain carry on a one gun fight at a few cable distance with some enemy destroyer who not know what state she be in sheer off after a few round. shaitan hole forward and open up aft come across the survivor from gehenna cling to their raft and take them aboard. then some of our destroyer they be thick on the sea that night try to tow her stern first for goblin have cut her up badly forward. but since shaitan lack any stern and her rudder be jam hard across where the stern should have be the hawser part and after leave ask of lawful authority across all that waste of water they sink shaitan by gun fire have first take all the proper step about the confidential book. yet shaitan have have her little crumb of comfort ere the end. while she lay cripple she saw quite close to her a german cruiser that be trail homeward in the dawn gradually heel over and sink. 
this complete my version of the various account of the four destroyer directly concern for a few hour on one minute section of one wing of our battle. other ship witness other aspect of the agony and duly note them a they go about their business. one of our battleship for instance make out by the glare of burn gehenna that the suppose cruiser that eblis torpedo be a german battleship of a certain class. so gehenna do not die in vain and we may take it that the discovery do not unduly depress eblis s wound in hospital. 
ask for trouble. 
the rest of the flotilla that the four destroyer belong to have their own adventure late. one of them chase or be chase saw goblin out of control just before goblin and shaitan lock and narrowly escape add herself to that triple collision. another loose a couple of torpedo at the enemy ship who be attack gehenna which perhaps account for the anxiety of the enemy to break away from that hornet nest a soon a possible. half a dozen or so of them run into four german battleship which they set about torpedo at range vary from half a mile to a mile and a half. it be ask for trouble and they get it. but they get in return at least one big ship and the same observant battleship of ours who identify eblis s bird report three satisfactory explosion in half an hour follow by a glare that light up all the sky. one of the flotilla close on what she think be the smoke of a sister in difficulty find herself well in among the four battleship. it be too late to get away she say so she attack fire her torpedo be catch up in the glare of a couple of searchlight and pound to piece in five minute not even her raft be leave. she go down with her colour fly have fight to the last available gun. 
another destroyer who have bear a hand in gehenna s trouble have her try at the four battleship and get in a torpedo at yard. she saw it explode and the ship take a heavy list. then i be chase which be not surprise. she pick up a friend who could only do knot. they sight several hun destroyer who flee from them. then drop on to four hun destroyer all together who make great parade of commence action but soon afterwards think good of it and turn away. so you see in that flotilla alone there be every variety of fight from the order attack of squadron under control to single ship affair every turn of which depend on the second s decision of the men concern. endurance to the hopeless end. bluff and cunning. reckless advance and red hot flight. clear vision and a much of blank bewilderment a the senior service permit it child to indulge in. that be not much. when a destroyer who ha be dodge enemy torpedo and gun fire in the dark realise about midnight that she be follow a strange british flotilla have lose sight of my own she decide to remain with them and share their fortune and whatever language be go. 
if lose hound could speak when they cast up next day after an unchecked night among the wild life of the dark they would talk much a our destroyer do. 
the doorkeeper of zion they do not always stand in helmet and whole armour with halberd in their hand. but be sure of zion and all her mystery they rest awhile in zion sit down and smile in zion. ay even jest in zion in zion at their ease. 
the gatekeeper of baal they dare not sit or lean but fume and fret and posture and foam and curse between. for be bind to baal whose sacrifice be vain their rest be scant with baal they glare and pant for baal they mouth and rant for baal for baal in their pain. 
but we will go to zion by choice and not through dread with these our present comrade and those our present dead. and be free of zion in both her fellowship sit down and sup in zion stand up and drink in zion whatever cup in zion be offer to our lip. 
iii. 
the mean of joss. 
a young officer s letter. 
a one dig deep into the record one see the various temperament of men reveal themselves through all the formal word. one commander may be an expert in torpedo work whose first care be how and where his shot go and whether under all circumstance of pace light and angle the best have be achieve. destroyer do not carry unlimited stock of torpedo. it rest with commander whether they shall spend with a free hand at first or save for night work ahead risk a possible while he be yet afloat or hang on coldly for a certainty. so in the old whale day do the harponeer bring up or back off his boat till some shift of the great fish s bulk give him sure open at the deep seat life. 
and then come the question of private judgment. i think so and so would happen. therefore i do thus and thus. thing may or may not turn out a anticipate but that be merely another of the million chance of the sea. take a case in point. a flotilla of our destroyer sight six. there have be eight the previous afternoon. german battleship of kingly and imperial caste very early in the morning of the st june and duly attack. at first our people run parallel to the enemy then a far a one can make out head them and sweep round sharp to the leave fire torpedo from their port or leave hand tube. between them they hit a battleship which go up in flame and débris. but one of the flotilla have not turn with the rest. she have anticipate that the attack would be make on another quarter and for certain technical reason she be not ready. when she be she turn and single hand the rest of the flotilla have finish and go on carry out two attack on the five remain battleship. she get one of them amidships cause a terrific explosion and flame above the masthead which signify that the magazine ha be touch off. she count the battleship when the smoke have clear and there be but four of them. she herself be not hit though shot fell close. she go her way and see nothing of her sister pick up another flotilla and stay with it till the end. do i make clear the maze of blind hazard and wary judgment in which our men of the sea must move. 
save by a smoke screen. 
some of the original flotilla be chase and head about by cruiser after their attack on the six battleship and a single shell from battleship or cruiser reduce one of them to such a condition that she be bring home by her sub lieutenant and a midshipman. her captain first lieutenant gunner torpedo coxswain and both signalman be either kill or wound. the bridge with chart instrument and signal gear go. all torpedo be expend. a gun be out of action and the usual cordite fire develop. luckily the engine be workable. she escape under cover of a smoke screen which be an unbearably filthy outpouring of the dense smoke make by increase the proportion of oil to air in the furnace fee. it roll forth from the funnel look solid enough to sit upon spread in a searchlight proof pat of impenetrable beastliness and in still weather hang for hour. but it save that ship. 
it be curious to note the subdue tone of a boy s report when by some accident of slaughter he be raise to command. there be certain formality which every ship must comply with on enter certain port. no fully strip commander would trouble to detail them any more than he would the aspect of his club porter. the young un put it all down a who should say. i ring the bell wipe my foot on the mat and ask if they be at home. he be most careful of the port propriety and since he will be sub. again to morrow and all his equal will tell him exactly how he ought to have handle her he almost apologise for the step he take deed which ashore might be call cool or dare. 
the senior service doe not gush. there be certain formula appropriate to every occasion. one of our destroyer who be knock out early in the day and lay helpless be sight by several of her companion. one of them report her to the authority but be busy at the time say he do not think himself justify in hamper himself with a disable ship in the middle of an action. it be not a if she be sink either. she be only hole foreward and aft with a bad hit in the engine room and her steer gear knock out. in this posture she cheer the pass ship and set about repair her hurt with good heart and a smile countenance. she manage to get under some sort of way at midnight and next day be take in tow by a friend. she say officially his assistance be invaluable a i have no oil leave and meet heavy weather. 
what actually happen be much le formal. fleet destroyer a a rule do not worry about navigation. they take their order from the flagship and range out and return on signal like sheep dog whose fix point be their shepherd. consequently when they break loose on their own they may fetch up rather doubtful of their whereabouts a this injure one do. after she have be so kindly take in tow she inquire of her friend. message captain to captain. have you any notion where we be. the friend reply i have not but i will find out. so the friend wait on the sun with the necessary implement which luckily have not be smash and in due time make. our observe position at this hour be thus and thus. the tow irreverently be it. didn t know you be a navigator. the friend with hauteur yes. it s rather a hobby of mine. the tow have no idea it be a bad a all that. but i m afraid i ll have to trust you this time. go ahead and be quick about it. they reach a port correctly enough but to this hour the tow have study with the friend at a place call dartmouth insist that it be pure joss. 
concern joss. 
and joss which be luck fortune destiny the irony of fate or nemesis be the great of all the battle god that move on the water. a i will show you late knowledge of gunnery and a delicate instinct for what be in the enemy s mind may enable a destroyer to thread her way slow speed and twist between the heavy salvo of oppose fleet. a the dank smell waterspout rise and break she judge where the next grove of them will sprout. if her judgment be correct she may enter it in her report a a little feather in her cap. but it be joss when the stray inch shell hurl by a giant at some giant ten mile away fall on her from heaven and wipe out her and her profound calculation. this be see to happen to a hun destroyer in mid attack. while she be be laboriously deal with by a inch gun something immense take her and she be not. 
joss it be too when the cruiser s inch shoot that should have rake out your innards from the forward boiler to the ward room stave deflect miraculously like a twig drag through deep water and almost return on it track skip off unbursten and leaf you reprieve by the breadth of a nail from three death in one. late a single splinter no more may cut your oil supply pipe a dreadfully and completely a a break wind screen in a collision cut the surprise motorist s throat. then you must lie useless fight oil fire while the precious fuel gutter away till you have to ask leave to escape while there be yet a few ton leave. one ship who be once bleed white by such a piece of joss suggest it would be good that oil pipe should be lead along certain line which she sketch. a if that would make any difference to joss when he want to show what he can do. 
our sea people who have work with him for a thousand wettish year have acquire something of joss s large toleration and humour. he cause ship in thick weather or under strain to mistake friend for enemy. at such time if your heart be full of highly organise hate you strafe frightfully and efficiently till one of you perish and the survivor report wonder which be duly wirelessed all over the world. but if you worship joss you reflect you put two and two together in a casual insular way and arrive sometimes both party arrive at instinctive conclusion which avoid trouble. 
an affair in the north sea. 
witness this tale. it doe not concern the jutland fight but another little affair which take place a while ago in the north sea. it be understand that a certain type of cruiser of ours would not be take part in a certain show. therefore if anyone saw cruiser very like them he might blaze at them with a clear conscience for they would be hun boat. and one of our destroyer thick weather a usual spy the silhouette of cruiser exactly like our own steal across the haze. say the commander to his sub. with an inflection neither period exclamation nor interrogation mark can render that be them. 
say the sub. in precisely the same tone that be them sir. a my sub. say the commander your observation be strictly in accord with the tradition of the service. now a man to man what be they. we el say the sub. since you put it that way i m d d if i d fire. and they didn t and they be quite right. the destroyer have be off on another job and joss have jam the late wireless order to her at the last moment. but joss have also put it into the heart of the boy to save themselves and others. 
i hold no brief for the hun but honestly i think he ha not lie a much about the jutland fight a people believe and that when he protest he sink a ship he do very completely sink a ship. i be the more confirm in this belief by a still small voice among the jutland report muse aloud over an account of an unaccountable outlying brawl witness by one of our destroyer. the voice suggest that what the destroyer saw be one german ship be sink by another. amen. 
our destroyer saw a good deal that night on the face of the water. some of them who be work in area of comparative calm submit chart of their tangle course all stud with note along the zigzag something like this. 
p. m. hear explosion to the n. w. a neat arrow head point that way. half an inch farther along a short change of course and the word hit explain the mean of _sighted enemy cruiser engage with destroyer. another twist follow. p. m. pass wreckage. engage enemy destroyer port beam opposite course. a long straight line without incident then a tangle and pick up survivor so and so. a stretch over to some ship that they be transfer to a fresh departure and another brush with _single destroyer on parallel course. hit. a. m. pass bow enemy cruiser stick up. join flotilla for attack on battleship squadron. so it run on one little ship in a few short hour pass through more wonder of peril and accident than all the old fleet ever dream. 
a child s letter. 
in year to come naval expert will collate all those diagram and furiously argue over them. a lot of the destroyer work be inevitably a mix a bomb down a trench a the scuffle of a polo match or a the hot heave heart of a football scrum. it be difficult to realise when one consider the size of the sea that it be that very size and absence of boundary which help the confusion. to give an idea here be a letter. it ha be quote before i believe but it be good enough to repeat many time. from a nineteen year old child to his friend age seventeen. and minus one leg. in a hospital. 
i m so awfully sorry you weren t in it. it be rather terrible but a wonderful experience and i wouldn t have miss it for anything but by jove it isn t a thing one want to make a habit of. 
i must say it be very different from what i expect. i expect to be excite but be not a bite. it s hard to express what we do feel like but you know the sort of feel one ha when one go in to bat at cricket and rather a lot depend upon your do well and you be wait for the first ball. well it s very much the same a that. do you know what i mean. a sort of tense feel not quite know what to expect. one doe not feel the slight bite frighten and the idea that there s a chance of you and your ship be scupper doe not enter one s head. there be too many other thing to think about. 
follow the usual no ship like our ship talkee and a note of where she be at the time. 
then they order u to attack so we bustle off full bore. be navigator also have control of all the gun i be on the bridge all the time and remain for twelve hour without leave it at all. when we get fairly close i sight a good look hun destroyer which i think i d like to strafe. you know it s awful fun to know that you can blaze off at a real ship and do a much damage a you like. well i d just get their range on the gun and we d just fire one round when some more of our destroyer come from the opposite direction get between u and the enemy and completely blanket u so we have to stop which be rather rot. shortly afterwards they recall u so we bustle back again. how any destroyer get out of it be perfectly wonderful. 
literally there be hundred of progs. shell fall. all round u from a inch to a inch and you know what a big splash a inch burst in the water doe make. we get wash through by the spray. just a we be get back a whole salvo of big shell fell just in front of u and short of our big ship. the skipper and i do rapid calculation a to how long it would take them to reload fire again time of flight etc. a we have to go right through the spot. we come to the conclusion that a they be short a bite they would probably go up a bite and. they. didn t but luckily they alter deflection and the next fell right astern of u. anyhow we manage to come out of that row without the ship or a man on board be touch. 
what the big ship stand. 
it s extraordinary the amount of knock about the big ship can stand. one saw them hit and they seem to be one mass of flame and smoke and you think they re go but when the smoke clear away they be apparently none the bad and still fire away. but to see a ship blow up be a terrible and wonderful sight. an enormous volume of flame and smoke almost foot high and great piece of metal etc. blow sky high and then when the smoke clear not a sign of the ship. we saw one other extraordinary sight. of course you know the north sea be very shallow. we come across a hun cruiser absolutely on end his stern on the bottom and his bow stick up about foot in the water. and a little farther on a destroyer in precisely the same position. 
i couldn t be certain but i rather think i saw your old ship crash along and blaze away but i expect you have hear from some of your pal. but the night be far and away the bad time of all. it be pitch dark and of course absolutely no light and the fire seem so much more at night a you could see the flash light up the sky and it seem to make much more noise and you could see ship on fire and blow up. of course we show absolutely no light. one expect to be surprise any moment and eventually we be. we suddenly find ourselves within yard of two or three big hun cruiser. they switch on their searchlight and start fire like nothing on earth. then they put their searchlight on u but for some extraordinary reason do not fire on u. a of course we be go full speed we lose them in a moment but i must say that i and i think everybody else think that that be the end but one doe not feel afraid or panicky. i think i felt rather cool then than at any other time. i ask lot of people afterwards what they felt like and they all say the same thing. it all happen in a few second. one hasn t time to think. but never in all my life have i be so thankful to see daylight again and i don t think i ever want to see another night like that it s such an awful strain. one doe not notice it at the time but it s the reaction afterwards. 
i never notice i be tire till i get back to harbour and then we all turn in and absolutely sleep like log. we be seventy two hour with little or no sleep. the skipper be perfectly wonderful. he never leave the bridge for a minute for twenty four hour and be on the bridge or in the chart house the whole time we be out. the chart house be an airy dog kennel that open off the bridge. and i ve never see anybody so cool and unruffled. he stand there smoke his pipe a if nothing out of the ordinary be happen. 
one quite forget all about time. i be relieve at a. m. and on look at my watch find i have be up there nearly twelve hour and then discover i be rather hungry. the skipper and i have some cheese and biscuit ham sandwich and water on the bridge and then i go down and brew some cocoa and ship s biscuit. 
not in the thick of the fight not in the press of the odds do the hero come to their height or we know the demi god. 
that stand over till peace. we can only perceive men return from the sea very grateful for leave. 
they grant u sudden day snatch from their business of war. we be too close to appraise what manner of men they be. 
and whether their name go down with age keep victory or whether they battle and drown unreckoned be hide from our eye. 
they be too near to be great but our child shall understand when and how our fate be change and by whose hand. 
our child shall measure their worth. we be content to be blind for we know that we walk on a new bear earth with the saviour of mankind. 
iv. 
the mind of men. 
how it be do. 
what mystery be there like the mystery of the other man s job or what world so cut off a that which he enter when he go to it. the eminent surgeon be altogether such an one a ourselves even till his hand fall on the knob of the theatre door. after that in the silence among the ether fume no man except his acolyte and they win t tell ha ever see his face. so with the unconsidered curate. yet before the war he have more experience of the business and detail of death than any of the people who contemn him. his face also a he stand his bedside watch that countenance with which he shall justify himself to his maker none have ever look upon. even the ditcher be a priest of mystery at the high moment when he lay out in his mind his level and the fall of the water that he alone can draw off clearly. but catch any of these men five minute after they have leave their altar and you will find the door be shut. 
chance send me almost immediately after the jutland fight a lieutenant of one of the destroyer engage. among other matter i ask him if there be any particular noise. 
well i haven t be in the trench of course he reply but i don t think there could have be much more noise than there be. 
this bear out a report of a destroyer who could not be certain whether an enemy battleship have blow up or not say that in that particular corner it would have be impossible to identify anything le than the explosion of a whole magazine. 
it wasn t exactly noise he reflect. noise be what you take in from outside. this be inside you. it seem to lift you right out of everything. 
and how do the light affect one. i ask try to work out a theory that noise and light produce beyond know endurance form an unknown anaesthetic and stimulant comparable to but infinitely more potent than the soothe effect of the smoke pall of ancient battle. 
the light be rather curious be the answer. i don t know that one notice searchlight particularly unless they mean business. but when a lot of big gun loose off together the whole sea be light up and you could see our destroyer run about like cockroach on a tin soup plate. 
then be black the best colour for our destroyer. some commander seem to think we ought to use grey. 
bless if i know say young dante. everything show black in that light. then it all go out again with a bang. try for the eye if you be spot. 
ship dog. 
and how do the dog take it. i pursue. there be several destroyer more or le own by pet dog who start life a the chance find property of a stoker and end in supreme command of the bridge. 
most of em didn t like it a bite. they go below one time and want to be love. they know it wasn t ordinary practice. 
what do arabella do. i have hear a good deal of arabella. 
oh arabella s quite different. her job ha always be to look after her master s pyjama fold up at the head of the bunk you know. she find out pretty soon the bridge be no place for a lady so she hop downstairs and get in. you know how she make three little jump to it first on to the chair. then on the flap table and then up on the pillow. when the show be over there she be a usual. 
be she glad to see her master. 
_ra ather. arabella be the bold gay lady dog then. 
now arabella be between nine and eleven and a half inch long. 
doe the hun run to pet at all. 
i shouldn t say so. he s an unsympathetic felon the hun. but he might cherish a dachshund or so. we never pick up any ship pet off him and i m sure we should if there have be. 
that i believe a implicitly a the tale of a destroyer attack some month ago the object of which be to flush zeppelin. it succeed for the flotilla be attack by several. right in the middle of the flurry a destroyer ask permission to stop and low dinghy to pick up ship s dog which have fall overboard. permission be grant and the dog be duly rescue. lord know what the hun make of it say my informant. he be rumble round drop bomb. and the dinghy be dig out for all she be worth and the dog fiend be swim for dunkirk. it must have look rather mad from above. but they save the dog fiend and then everybody swear he be a german spy in disguise. 
the fight. 
and about this jutland fight. i hint not for the first time. 
oh that be just a fight. there be more of it than any other fight i suppose but i expect all modern naval action must be pretty much the same. 
but what doe one do how doe one feel. i insist though i know it be hopeless. 
one doe one s job. thing be happen all the time. a man may be right under your nose one minute serve a gun or something and the next minute he isn t there. 
and one notice that at the time. 
yes. but there s no time to keep on notice it. you ve get to carry on somehow or other or your show stop. i tell you what one doe notice though. if one go below for anything or ha to pas through a flat somewhere and one see the old wardroom clock tick or a photograph pin up or anything of that sort one notice that. oh yes and there be another thing the way a ship seem to blow up if you be far off her. you d see a glare then a blaze and then the smoke mile high lift quite slowly. then you d get the row and the jar of it just like bump over submarine. then a long while after p rap you run through a regular rain of bit of burn paper come down on the deck like shower of volcanic ash you know. the door of the operate room seem just about to open but it shut again. 
and the hun gunnery. 
that be various. sometimes they begin quite well and go to piece after they d be strafe a little. but sometimes they pick up again. there be one hun boat that get no end of a hammer and it seem to do her gunnery good. she improve tremendously till we sink her. i expect we d knock out some scientific hun in the control and he d be succeed by a man who know how. 
it use to be fritz last year when they speak of the enemy. now it be hun or a i have hear yahun be a superlative of yahoo. in the napoleonic war we call the frenchman too many name for any one of them to endure. but this be the age of standardisation. 
and what about our low deck. i continue. 
they. oh they carry on a usual. it take a lot to impress the low deck when they re busy. and he mention several little thing that confirm this. they have a great deal to do and they do it serenely because they have be train to carry on under all condition without panic. what they do in the way of run repair be even more wonderful if that be possible than their normal routine. 
the low deck nowadays be full of strange fish with unlooked for accomplishment a in the record case of two simple seaman of a destroyer who when need be sore come to the front a train expert in first aid. 
and now what about the actual hun loss at jutland. i venture. 
you ve see the list haven t you. 
yes but it occur to me that they might have be a shade under estimate and i think perhaps. 
a perfectly plain asbestos fire curtain descend in front of the already lock door. it be none of his business to dispute the drive. if there be any discrepancy between estimate and result one might be sure that the enemy know about them which be the chief thing that matter. 
it be say he joss that the light be so bad at the hour of the last round up when our main fleet have come down from the north and shovel the hun round on his track. per contra_ have it be any other kind of weather the odds be the hun would not have venture so far. a it be the hun s fleet have come out and go back again none the good for air and exercise. we must be thankful for what we have manage to pick up. but talk of pick up there be an instance of almost unparalleled joss which have stick in his memory. a soldier man relate to one of the officer in one of our ship that be put down have get five day leave from the trench which he spend with his relative aboard and thus drop in for the whole performance. he have be employ in help to spot and have live up a mast till the ship sink when he step off into the water and swim about till he be fish out and put ashore. by that time the tale go his engine room dry khaki have shrink half way up his leg and arm in which costume he report himself to the war office and plead for one little day s extension of leave to make himself decent. not a bite of it say the war office. if you choose to spend your leave play with sailor men and get wet all over that s your concern. you will return to duty by to night s boat. this may be a libel on the w. o. but it sound very like them. and he have to say the boy but i expect he spend the next week at headquarter tell fat general all about the fight. 
and of course the admiralty give you all lot of leave. 
u. yes heap. we have nothing to do except clean down and oil up and be ready to go to sea again in a few hour. 
that little fact be bring out at the end of almost every destroyer s report. have return to base at such and such a time i take in oil etc. and report ready for sea at o clock. when you think of the amount of work a ship need even after peace manoeuvre you can realise what ha to be do on the heel of an action. and a there be nothing like housework for the trouble soul of a woman so a general clean up be good for sailor. i have this from a petty officer who have also pass through deep water. if you ve see your best friend go from alongside you and your own officer and your own boat s crew with him and thing of that kind a man s best comfort be small variegate job which he be damn for continuous. 
the silent navy. 
presently my friend of the destroyer go back to his stark desolate life where feeling do not count and the fact of his be cold wet sea sick sleepless or dog tire have no bear whatever on his business which be to turn out at any hour in any weather and do or endure decently accord to ritual what that hour and that weather demand. it be hard to reach the kernel of navy mind. the unbribable sea and mechanism they work on and through have give them the simplicity of element and machine. the habit of deal with swift accident a life of close and strict association with their own caste a well a contact with all kind of men all earth over have add an immense cunning to those quality. and that they be from early youth cut out of all feeling that may come between them and their end make them more incomprehensible than jesuit even to their own people. what then must they be to the enemy. 
here be a service which prowl forth and achieve at the low something of a victory. how far reach a one only the war s end will reveal. it return in gloomy silence break by the occasional hoot of the long shore loafer after issue a bulletin which though it may enlighten the professional mind doe not exhilarate the layman. meantime the enemy triumph wirelessly far and wide. a few frigid and perfunctory seem contradiction be put forward against his resound claim. a naval expert or two be hear talk off. the rest be silence. anon the enemy after a prodigious amount of explanation which not even the neutral seem to take any interest in revise his claim and very modestly enlarge his loss. still no sign. after week there appear a document give our version of the affair which be a colourless detach and scrupulously impartial a the finding of a prize court. it opine that the list of enemy loss which it submit give the minimum in regard to number though it be possibly not entirely accurate in regard to the particular class of vessel especially those that be sink during the night attack. here the matter rest and remain just like our blockade. there be an insolence about it all that make one gasp. 
yet that insolence spring naturally and unconsciously a an oath out of the same spirit that cause the destroyer to pick up the dog. the report themselves and tenfold more the story not in the report be charge with it but no word by any outsider can reproduce just that professional tone and touch. a man write home after the fight point out that the great consolation for not have clean up the enemy altogether be that anyhow those east coast devil a fellow squadron if you please which up till jutland have have most of the fight be not there. they miss that show. we be a cock ahoop a a girl who have be to a dance that her sister ha miss. 
this be one of the figure in that dance. 
a little british destroyer her midships rent by a great shell mean for a battle cruiser. exude steam from every pore. able to go ahead but not to steer. unable to get out of anybody s way likely to be ram by any one of a dozen ship. her syren whimper. let me through. make way. her crew fall in aft dress in life belt ready for her final plunge and cheer wildly a it might have be an enthusiastic crowd when the king pass. 
let u close on that note. we have be compass about so long and so blindingly by wonder and miracle. so overwhelm by revelation of the spirit of men in the base and most high. that we have neither time to keep tally of these furious day nor mind to discern upon which hour of them our world s fate hang. 
the neutral. 
brother how shall it fare with me when the war be lay aside if it be prove that i be he for whom a world ha die. 
if it be prove that all my good and the great good i will make be purchase me by a multitude who suffer for my sake. 
that i be deliver by mere mankind vow to one sacrifice and not a i hold them battle blind but die with open eye. 
that they do not ask me to draw the sword when they stand to endure their lot what they only look to me for a word and i answer i know them not. 
if it be find when the battle clear their death ha set me free then how shall i live with myself through the year which they have buy for me. 
brother how must it fare with me or how be i justify if it be prove that i be he for whom mankind ha die. if it be prove that i be he who be question deny. 
the end. 
print by r. & r. clark limit edinburgh. 
* * * * *. 
