song from book. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
macmillan and co. limit. 
st. martin s street london. 

copyright. 
all right reserve include that of translation into foreign language include the scandinavian. 
first edition october. 
reprint october. twice. november. 
preface. 
i have collect in this volume practically all the verse and chapter heading scatter through my book. in several case where only a few line of verse be originally use i have give in full the song etc. from which they be take. 
rudyard kipling. 
city and throne and power. 
city and throne and power stand in time s eye almost a long a flower which daily die. but a new bud put forth to glad new men out of the spend and unconsidered earth the city rise again. 
this season s daffodil she never hear what change what chance what chill cut down last year s. but with bold countenance and knowledge small esteem her seven day continuance to be perpetual. 
so time that be o er kind to all that be ordain u e en a blind a bold a she. that in our very death and burial sure shadow to shadow well persuade saith see how our work endure. 
content. 
song book page angutivaun taina second jungle book astrologer s song an reward and fairy ballad of minepit shaw the reward and fairy bee boy s song the puck of pook s hill bee and the fly the action and reaction blue rose light that fail british roman song a puck brookland road reward and fairy butterfly traffic and discovery by the hoof of the wild goat plain tale captive the traffic and discovery carol a reward and fairy chapter heading beast and man etc. jungle book just so story naulahka light that fail plain tale charm a reward and fairy child s song the puck chil s song second jungle book city and throne and power puck vii city of sleep the the day s work cold iron reward and fairy cuckoo song heathfield parish memoir darzee s chaunt jungle book dedication a soldier three eddi s service reward and fairy egg shell the traffic and discovery fairy siege the kim four angel the action and reaction frankie s trade reward and fairy gallio s song action and reaction gow s watch kim hadramauti plain tale harp song of the dane woman puck heriot s ford light that fail heritage the the empire and the century hunt song of the seeonee pack jungle book if reward and fairy jester the collect jubal and tubal cain letter to the family juggler s song the naulahka kingdom the naulahka king henry vii. and the shipwright reward and fairy king s task the traffic and discovery law of the jungle the second jungle book look glass the reward and fairy love song of har dyal the plain tale lukannon jungle book merrow down just so story morning song in the jungle second jungle book mother o mine light that fail mowgli s song against people second jungle book my lady s law naulahka my new cut ashlar life s handicap necessitarian the traffic and discovery new knighthood the action and reaction nurse sister the naulahka old mother laidinwool puck only son the many invention our father also traffic and discovery our father of old reward and fairy outsong in the jungle second jungle book parade song of the camp animal jungle book pict song a puck poor honest men reward and fairy poseidon s law traffic and discovery power of the dog the action and reaction prairie the letter to the family prayer the kim prayer of miriam cohen the many invention prodigal son the kim prophet at home puck pock s song puck puzzler the action and reaction queen s men the reward and fairy rabbi s song the action and reaction recall the action and reaction return of the child the traffic and discovery rimini puck ripple song a second jungle book road song of the bandar log jungle book romulus and remus letter to the family run of the down the reward and fairy sack of the god the naulahka school song a stalky & co. servant when he reigneth a letter to the family shiv and the grasshopper jungle book sir richard s song puck smuggler s song a puck song of kabir a second jungle book song of the fifth river puck song of the little hunter second jungle book song of the men s side reward and fairy song of the red war boat reward and fairy song of travel a letter to the family song to mithra a puck st. helena lullaby a reward and fairy strange the letter to the family tarrant moss plain tale thorkild s song puck thousandth man the reward and fairy three part song a puck tree song a puck truthful song a reward and fairy two side man the kim voortrekker the collect way through the wood the reward and fairy wet litany the traffic and discovery when the great ark letter to the family widower the various winner the story of the gadsbys wish cap the kim. 
index to first line. 
page about the time that tavern shut a farmer of the augustan age after the sack of the city when rome be sink to a name all day long to the judgment seat all the world over nurse their scar alone upon the housetop to the north and if ye doubt the tale i tell and some be sulky while some will plunge and they be strong hand than mine a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree a the dawn be break the sambhur bell a stone s throw out on either hand at the hole where he go in. 
beat off in our last fight be we. because i seek it far from men bee. bee. hark to your bee. before my spring i garner autumn s gain between the wave tuft of jungle grass by the hoof of the wild goat uptossed. 
china go p. and o. s city and throne and power vii cry murder in the market place and each. 
dark child of the mere and marsh. 
eddi priest of st. wilfrid ere mor the peacock flutter ere the monkey people cry excellent herb have our father of old eye aloft over dangerous place. 
for a season there must be pain for our white and our excellent night for the night of swift run for the sake of him who show from the wheel and the drift of thing. 
gold be for the mistress silver for the maid go stalk the red deer o er the heather. 
harry our king in england from london town be go he drink strong water and his speech be coarse here come i to my own again here we go in a fling festoon his spot be the joy of the leopard. his horn be the buffalo s pride how far be st. helena from a little child at play. 
i be the land of their father i be the most wise baviaan say in most wise tone i close and draw for my love s sake if i have take the common clay if i be hang on the high hill i follow my duke ere i be a lover if think can reach to heaven if you can keep your head when all about you if you wake at midnight and hear a horse s foot i have be give my charge to keep i keep six honest serve men i know not in whose hand be lay i meet my mate in the morning. and oh but i be old. i m just in love with all these three in the daytime when she move about me i see the grass shake in the sun for league on either hand i tell this tale which be strictly true it be not in the open fight i ve never sail the amazon i be very well please with what i know i will let loose against you the fleet foot vine i will remember what i be i be sick of rope and chain. 
jubal sing of the wrath of god. 
land of our birth we pledge to thee le you want your toe tread off you d good get back at once let u now praise famous men life s all get and give look you have cast out love. what god be these. 
man go to man. cry the challenge through the jungle. mithra god of the morning our trumpet waken the wall. much i owe to the land that grow my brother kneel so saith kabir my father s father saw it not my new cut ashlar take the light. 
neither the harp nor the crown amuse nor the cherub dive wing race not though you die to night o sweet and wail not with an outcry to allah nor any complain now chil the kite bring home the night now it be not good for the christian s health to hustle the aryan brown now this be the law of the jungle a old and a true a the sky now we be come to our kingdom. 
of all the tree that grow so fair oh. hush thee my baby the night be behind u oh light be the world that he weigh in his hand. oh little do the wolf child care old horn to all atlantic say. 
old mother laidinwool have nigh twelve month be dead once a ripple come to land once we fear the beast when he follow u we run one man in a thousand solomon say one moment past our body cast our father in a wondrous age our glove be stiff with the freeze blood our lord who do the ox command our sister sayeth such and such over the edge of the purple down. 
pit where the buffalo cool his hide prophet have honour all over the earth pussy can sit by the fire and sing. 
queen be be harry s daughter. stand forward partner all. 
ride with an idle whip ride with an unused heel rome never look where she tread rose red and rose white. 
see you the ferny ride that steal she drop the bar she shoot the bolt she feed the fire anew shiv who pour the harvest and make the wind to blow shove off from the wharf edge. steady. singer and tailor be i so we settle it all when the storm be do stop in the straight when the race be his own. stranger draw from the end of the earth jewel and plume be we. 
take of english earth a much tell it to the lock up tree the beast be very wise the camel s hump be an ugly lump the celt in all his variant from builth to ballyhoo the door be wide the story saith the gull shall whistle in his wake the blind wave break in fire the lark will make her hymn to god the law whereby my lady move the night we felt the earth would move the people of the eastern ice they be melt like the snow there be three degree of bliss there be pleasure in the wet wet clay there be sorrow enough in the natural way there run a road by merrow down there s a convict more in the central jail there s no wind along these sea there be a strife twixt man and maid there be never a queen like balkis there be three friend that bury the fourth these be the four that be never content that have never be fill since the dew begin these be my companion go forth by night the strange within my gate the stream be shrink the pool be dry the tear bough trail o er the tusk aslant the weald be good the down be best the wind take off with the sunset the wolf cub at even lay hide in the corn the world hath set it heavy yoke they burn a corpse upon the sand they kill a child to please the god they shut the road through the wood this i saw when the rite be do this be the mouth fill song of the race that be run by a boomer three thing make earth unquiet throne power dominion people king to night god know what thing shall tide to the heaven above u. 
unto whose use the pregnant sun be poise. 
valour and innocence veil them cover them wall them round. 
we be the god of the east we lend to alexander the strength of hercules we meet in an evil land what be a woman that you forsake her what be the moral. who ride may read what of the hunt hunter bold. what s that that hirples at my side. when a lover hie abroad when first by eden tree when i leave home for lalage s sake when the cabin port hole be dark and green when the drum begin to beat when the earth be sick and the sky be grey when the great ark in vigo bay when the robust and brass bind man commission first for sea when the water s countenance when ye say to tabaqui my brother. when ye call the hyena to meat where s the lamp that hero light who give him the bath. who know the heart of the christian. how doe he reason. 
yet at the last ere our spearmen have find him you mustn t swim till you re six week old your jar of virginny your tiercel s too long at hack sir. he s no eyas. 
the recall. 
i be the land of their father. in me the virtue stay. i will bring back my child after certain day. 
under their foot in the grass my cling magic run. they shall return a stranger they shall remain a son. 
over their head in the branch of their new buy ancient tree i weave an incantation and draw them to my knee. 
scent of smoke in the even. smell of rain in the night the hour the day and the season order their soul aright. 
till i make plain the mean of all my thousand year till i fill their heart with knowledge. while i fill their eye with tear. 
puck s song. 
see you the ferny ride that steal into the oak wood far. o that be whence they hew the keel that roll to trafalgar. 
and mark you where the ivy cling to bayham s moulder wall. o there we cast the stout railing that stand around st. paul s. 
see you the dimple track that run all hollow through the wheat. o that be where they haul the gun that smite king philip s fleet. 
out of the weald the secret weald men send in ancient year the horse shoe red at flodden field the arrow at poitier. 
see you our little mill that clack so busy by the brook. she ha grind her corn and pay her tax ever since domesday book. 
see you our stilly wood of oak. and the dread ditch beside. o that be where the saxon break on the day that harold die. 
see you the windy level spread about the gate of rye. o that be where the northman flee when alfred s ship come by. 
see you our pasture wide and lone where the red ox browse. o there be a city throng and know. ere london boast a house. 
and see you after rain the trace of mound and ditch and wall. o that be a legion s camp place when cæsar sail from gaul. 
and see you mark that show and fade like shadow on the down. o they be the line the flint men make to guard their wondrous town. 
trackway and camp and city lose salt marsh where now be corn. old war old peace old art that cease and so be england bear. 
she be not any common earth water or wood or air but merlin s isle of gramarye where you and i will fare. 
the way through the wood. 
they shut the road through the wood seventy year ago. weather and rain have undo it again and now you would never know there be once a road through the wood before they plant the tree. it be underneath the coppice and heath and the thin anemone. only the keeper see that where the ring dive brood. and the badger roll at ease there be once a road through the wood. 
yet if you enter the wood of a summer even late when the night air cool on the trout ring pool where the otter whistle his mate. they fear not men in the wood. because they see so few. you will hear the beat of a horse s foot and the swish of a skirt in the dew steadily canter through the misty solitude a though they perfectly know the old lose road through the wood. but there be no road through the wood. 
a three part song. 
i m just in love with all these three the weald and the marsh and the down countrie. nor i don t know which i love the most the weald or the marsh or the white chalk coast. 
i ve bury my heart in a ferny hill twix a liddle low shaw an a great high gill. oh hop bine yaller an wood smoke blue i reckon you ll keep her middle true. 
i ve loose my mind for to out and run on a marsh that be old when king begin. oh romney level and brenzett reed i reckon you know what my mind need. 
i ve give my soul to the southdown grass and sheep bell tinkle where you pas. oh firle an ditchling an sail at sea i reckon you keep my soul for me. 
the run of the down. 
the weald be good the down be best i ll give you the run of em east to west. beachy head and winddoor hill they be once and they be still firle mount caburn and mount harry go back a far a sum ll carry. ditchling beacon and chanctonbury ring they have look on many a thing and what those two have miss between em i reckon truleigh hill ha see em. highden bignor and duncton down know old england before the crown. linch down treyford and sunwood know old england before the flood. and when you end on the hampshire side butser s old a time and tide. the down be sheep the weald be corn you be glad you be sussex bear. 
brookland road. 
i be very well please with what i know i reckon myself no fool till i meet with a maid on the brookland road that turn me back to school. 
low down low down. where the liddle green lantern shine o maid i ve do with ee all but one and she can never be mine. 
twas right in the middest of a hot june night with thunder duntin round and i see d her face by the fairy light that beat from off the grind. 
she only smile and she never speak she smile and go away. but when she d go my heart be break and my wit be clean astray. 
o stop your ring and let me be let be o brookland bell. you ll ring old goodman[a] out of the sea before i wed one else. 
old goodman s farm be rank sea sand and be this thousand year. but it shall turn to rich plough land before i change my dear. 
o fairfield church be water bind from autumn to the spring. but it shall turn to high hill grind before my bell do ring. 
o leave me walk on the brookland road in the thunder and warm rain o leave me look where my love go and p rap i ll see her again. 
low down low down. where the liddle green lantern shine o maid i ve do with ee all but one and she can never be mine. 
[footnote a. earl godwin of the goodwin sand. ]. 
the sack of the god. 
stranger draw from the end of the earth jewel and plume be we. i be lord of the inca race and she be queen of the sea. under the star beyond our star where the new forge meteor glow hotly we storm valhalla a million year ago. 
ever neath high valhalla hall the well tune horn begin when the sword be out in the underworld and the weary god come in. ever through high valhalla gate the patient angel go. he open the eye that be blind with hate he join the hand of foe. 
dust of the star be under our foot glitter of star above wreck of our wrath drop reel down a we fight and we spurn and we strive. world upon world we toss aside and scatter them to and fro the night that we storm valhalla a million year ago. 
they be forgive a they forgive all those dark wound and deep their bed be make on the lap of time and they lie down and sleep. they be forgive a they forgive all those old wound that bleed they shut their eye from their worshipper. they sleep till the world ha need. 
she with the star i have mark for my own i with my set desire lose in the loom of the night of night light by world afire meet in a war against the god where the headlong meteor glow hew our way to valhalla a million year ago. 
they will come back come back again a long a the red earth roll. he never waste a leaf or a tree. do you think he would squander soul. 
the kingdom. 
now we be come to our kingdom and the state be thus and thus. our legion wait at the palace gate little it profit u now we be come to our kingdom. 
now we be come to our kingdom and the crown be ours to take with a naked sword at the council board and under the throne the snake now we be come to our kingdom. 
now we be come to our kingdom and the realm be ours by right with shame and fear for our daily cheer and heaviness at night now we be come to our kingdom. 
now we be come to our kingdom but my love s eyelid fall. all that i work for all that i fight for delight her nothing at all. my crown be of wither leaf for she sit in the dust and grief. now we be come to our kingdom. 
tarrant moss. 
i close and draw for my love s sake that now be false to me and i slew the reiver of tarrant moss and set dumeny free. 
they have go down they have go down they be stand all arow twenty knight in the peat water that never strike a blow. 
their armour shall not dull nor rust their flesh shall not decay for tarrant moss hold them in trust until the judgment day. 
their soul go from them in their youth ah god that mine have go whenas i lean on my love s truth and not on my sword alone. 
whenas i lean on lad s belief and not on my naked blade and i slew a thief and an honest thief for the sake of a worthless maid. 
they have lay the reiver low in his place they have set me up on high but the twenty knight in the peat water be lucky than i. 
and ever they give me gold and praise and ever i mourn my loss for i strike the blow for my false love s sake and not for the men of the moss. 
sir richard s song. 
a. d. 
i follow my duke ere i be a lover to take from england fief and fee. but now this game be the other way over but now england hath take me. 
i have my horse my shield and banner and a boy s heart so whole and free. but now i sing in another manner but now england hath take me. 
a for my father in his tower ask news of my ship at sea. he will remember his own hour tell him england hath take me. 
a for my mother in her bower that rule my father so cunningly she will remember a maiden s power tell her england hath take me. 
a for my brother in rouen city a nimble and naughty page be he but he will come to suffer and pity tell him england hath take me. 
a for my little sister wait in the pleasant orchard of normandie tell her youth be the time for mat tell her england hath take me. 
a for my comrade in camp and highway that lift their eyebrow scornfully tell them their way be not my way tell them england hath take me. 
king and prince and baron famèd knight and captain in your degree. hear me a little before i be blamèd see england hath take me. 
howso great man s strength be reckon there be two thing he cannot flee. love be the first and death be the second and love in england hath take me. 
a tree song. 
a. d. 
of all the tree that grow so fair old england to adorn great be none beneath the sun than oak and ash and thorn. sing oak and ash and thorn good sir. all of a midsummer morn. surely we sing no little thing in oak and ash and thorn. 
oak of the clay live many a day or ever æneas begin. ash of the loam be a lady at home when brut be an outlaw man. thorn of the down saw new troy town. from which be london bear. witness hereby the ancientry of oak and ash and thorn. 
yew that be old in churchyard mould he breedeth a mighty bow. alder for shoe do wise men choose and beech for cup also. but when ye have kill and your bowl be spill and your shoe be clean outwear back ye must speed for all that ye need to oak and ash and thorn. 
ellum she hateth mankind and waiteth till every gust be lay to drop a limb on the head of him that anyway trust her shade. but whether a lad be sober or sad or mellow with ale from the horn he will take no wrong when he lieth along neath oak and ash and thorn. 
oh do not tell the priest our plight or he would call it a sin. but we have be out in the wood all night a conjure summer in. 
and we bring you news by word of mouth good news for cattle and corn now be the sun come up from the south with oak and ash and thorn. 
sing oak and ash and thorn good sir. all of a midsummer morn. england shall bide till judgment tide by oak and ash and thorn. 
cuckoo song. 
spring begin in southern england on the th april on which date the old woman let the cuckoo out of her basket at heathfield fair locally know a heffle cuckoo fair. 
tell it to the lock up tree cuckoo bring your song here. warrant act and summon please. for spring to pas along here. tell old winter if he doubt tell him squat and square a. old woman. old woman. old woman s let the cuckoo out at heffle cuckoo fair a. 
march ha search and april try tisn t long to may now not so far to whitsuntide and cuckoo s come to stay now. hear the valiant fellow shout down the orchard bare a. old woman. old woman. old woman s let the cuckoo out at heffle cuckoo fair a. 
when your heart be young and gay and the season rule it work your work and play your play fore the autumn cool it. kiss you turn and turn about but my lad beware a. old woman. old woman. old woman s let the cuckoo out at heffle cuckoo fair a. 
a charm. 
take of english earth a much a either hand may rightly clutch. in the take of it breathe prayer for all who lie beneath. not the great nor well bespeak but the mere uncounted folk of whose life and death be none report or lamentation. lay that earth upon thy heart and thy sickness shall depart. 
it shall sweeten and make whole fevered breath and fester soul. it shall mightily restrain over busy hand and brain. it shall ease thy mortal strife gainst the immortal woe of life till thyself restore shall prove by what grace the heaven do move. 
take of english flower these spring s full facèd primrose summer s wild wide hearted rise autumn s wall flower of the close and thy darkness to illume winter s bee throng ivy bloom. seek and serve them where they bide from candlemas to christmas tide for these simple use aright can restore a fail sight. 
these shall cleanse and purify web and inward turn eye. these shall show thee treasure hide thy familiar field amid. and reveal. which be thy need. every man a king indeed. 
the prairie. 
i see the grass shake in the sun for league on either hand i see a river loop and run about a treeless land an empty plain a steely pond a distance diamond clear and low blue naked hill beyond. and what be that to fear. 
go softly by that river side or when you would depart you ll find it every wind tie and knot round your heart. be wary a the season pas or you may ne er outrun the wind that set that yellow grass a shiver neath the sun. 
i hear the summer storm outblown the drip of the grateful wheat. i hear the hard trail telephone a far off horse s foot. i hear the horn of autumn blow to the wild fowl overhead. and i hear the hush before the snow. and what be that to dread. 
take heed what spell the lightning weave what charm the echo shape or bind among a million sheaf your soul may not escape. bar home the door of summer night l those high planet drown the memory of near delight in all the long for town. 
what need have i to long or fear. now friendly i behold my faithful season robe the year in silver and in gold. now i posse and be possess of the land where i would be and the curve of half earth s generous breast shall soothe and ravish me. 
chapter heading. 
plain tale from the hill. 
look you have cast out love. what god be these you bid me please. the three in one the one in three. not so. to my own god i go. it may be they shall give me great ease than your cold christ and tangle trinity. 
lispeth. 
when the earth be sick and the sky be grey and the wood be rot with rain the dead man ride through the autumn day to visit his love again. 
his love she neither saw nor hear so heavy be her shame. and tho the babe within her stir she know not that he come. 
the other man. 
cry murder in the market place and each will turn upon his neighbour anxious eye ask. art thou the man. we hunt cain some century ago across the world. this breed the fear our own misdeed maintain to day. 
his wed wife. 
go stalk the red deer o er the heather ride follow the fox if you can. but for pleasure and profit together allow me the hunt of man the chase of the human the search for the soul to it ruin the hunt of man. 
pig. 
stop in the straight when the race be his own. look at him cut it cur to the bone. ask ere the youngster be rat and chide what do he carry and how be he ride. maybe they use him too much at the start. maybe fate s weight cloth be break his heart. 
in the pride of his youth. 
and some be sulky while some will plunge. so ho. steady. stand still you. some you must gentle and some you must lunge. there. there. who want to kill you. some there be loss in every trade will break their heart ere bitted and make will fight like fiend a the rope cut hard and die dumb mad in the break yard. 
throw away. 
the world hath set it heavy yoke upon the old white beard folk who strive to please the king. god s mercy be upon the young god s wisdom in the baby tongue that fear not anything. 
tod s amendment. 
not though you die to night o sweet and wail a spectre at my door shall mortal fear make love immortal fail i shall but love you more who from death s house return give me still one moment s comfort in my matchless ill. 
by word of mouth. 
they burn a corpse upon the sand the light shine out afar. it guide home the plunge boat that beat from zanzibar. spirit of fire where er thy altar rise thou art the light of guidance to our eye. 
in error. 
ride with an idle whip ride with an unused heel. but once in a way there will come a day when the colt must be teach to feel the lash that fall and the curb that gall and the sting of the rowelled steel. 
the conversion of aurelian mcgoggin. 
it be not in the open fight we throw away the sword but in the lonely watch in the darkness by the ford. the water lap the night wind blow full arm the fear be bear and grow from panic in the night. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
in the daytime when she move about me in the night when she be sleep at my side i be weary i be weary of her presence. day by day and night by night i grow to hate her would god that she or i have die. 
the bronckhorst divorce case. 
a stone s throw out on either hand from that well order road we tread and all the world be wild and strange. churel and ghoul and djinn and sprite shall bear u company to night for we have reach the old land wherein the power of darkness range. 
in the house of suddhoo. 
to night god know what thing shall tide the earth be rack and fain expectant sleepless open eye. and we who from the earth be make thrill with our mother s pain. 
false dawn. 
pit where the buffalo cool his hide by the hot sun empty and blister and dry. log in the reh grass hide and lone. bund where the earth rat s mound be strown. cave in the bank where the sly stream steal. aloe that stab at the belly and heel jump if you dare on a steed untried safe it be to go wide go wide. hark from in front where the best men ride. pull to the off boy. wide. go wide. 
cupid s arrow. 
he drink strong water and his speech be coarse. he purchase raiment and forbear to pay. he stick a trust junior with a horse and win gymkhana in a doubtful way. then twixt a vice and folly turn aside to do good deed and straight to cloak them lie. 
a bank fraud. 
cold iron. 
gold be for the mistress silver for the maid copper for the craftsman cunning at his trade. good. say the baron sit in his hall but iron cold iron be master of them all. 
so he make rebellion gainst the king his liege camp before his citadel and summon it to siege. nay. say the cannoneer on the castle wall but iron cold iron shall be master of you all. 
woe for the baron and his knight so strong when the cruel cannon ball lay em all along. he be take prisoner he be cast in thrall and iron cold iron be master of it all. 
yet his king spake kindly. ah how kind a lord. what if i release thee now and give thee back thy sword. nay. say the baron mock not at my fall for iron cold iron be master of men all. 
tear be for the craven prayer be for the clown halter for the silly neck that cannot keep a crown. a my loss be grievous so my hope be small for iron cold iron must be master of men all. 
yet his king make answer. few such king there be. here be bread and here be wine sit and sup with me. eat and drink in mary s name the while i do recall how iron cold iron can be master of men all. 
he take the wine and bless it. he bless and brake the bread. with his own hand he serve them and presently he say. see. these hand they pierce with nail outside my city wall show iron cold iron to be master of men all. 
wound be for the desperate blow be for the strong balm and oil for weary heart all cut and bruise with wrong. i forgive thy treason i redeem thy fall for iron cold iron must be master of men all. 
crown be for the valiant sceptre for the bold. throne and power for mighty men who dare to take and hold. nay. say the baron kneel in his hall but iron cold iron be master of man all. iron out of calvary be master of men all. 
a song of kabir. 
oh light be the world that he weigh in his hand. oh heavy the tale of his fief and his land. he ha go from the guddee and put on the shroud and depart in guise of bairagi avow. 
now the white road to delhi be mat for his foot. the sal and the kikar must guard him from heat. his home be the camp and the waste and the crowd he be seek the way a bairagi avow. 
he ha look upon man and his eyeball be clear. there be one. there be one and but one saith kabir. the red mist of do ha thin to a cloud he ha take the path for bairagi avow. 
to learn and discern of his brother the clod of his brother the brute and his brother the god he ha go from the council and put on the shroud. can ye hear. saith kabir. a bairagi avow. 
a carol. 
our lord who do the ox command to kneel to judah s king he bind his frost upon the land to ripen it for spring to ripen it for spring good sir accord to his word. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
when we poor fenmen skate the ice or shiver on the wold we hear the cry of a single tree that break her heart in the cold that break her heart in the cold good sir and rendeth by the board. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
her wood be craze and little worth except a to burn that we may warm and make our mirth until the spring return until the spring return good sir. when people walk abroad. which well must be a ye can see and who shall judge the lord. 
god bless the master of this house. and all who sleep therein. and guard the fen from pirate folk. and keep u all from sin to walk in honesty good sir of think and deed and word. which shall befriend our latter end and who shall judge the lord. 
my new cut ashlar. 
my new cut ashlar take the light where crimson blank the window flare. by my own work before the night great overseer i make my prayer. 
if there be good in that i work thy hand compel it master thine where i have fail to meet thy think i know through thee the blame be mine. 
one instant s toil to thee deny stand all eternity s offence. of that i do with thee to guide to thee through thee be excellence. 
the depth and dream of my desire the bitter path wherein i stray thou knowest who hath make the fire thou knowest who hast make the clay. 
who l all think of eden fade bring st eden to the craftsman s brain godlike to muse o er his own trade and manlike stand with god again. 
one stone the more swing into place in that dread temple of thy worth. it be enough that through thy grace i saw nought common on thy earth. 
take not that vision from my ken oh whatsoe er may spoil or speed. help me to need no aid from men that i may help such men a need. 
eddi s service. 
a. d. 
eddi priest of st. wilfrid in the chapel at manhood end order a midnight service for such a care to attend. 
but the saxon be keep christmas and the night be stormy a well. nobody come to service though eddi ring the bell. 
wicked weather for walk say eddi of manhood end. but i must go on with the service for such a care to attend. 
the altar candle be light an old marsh donkey come bold a a guest invite and star at the gutter flame. 
the storm beat on at the window the water splash on the floor and a wet yoke weary bullock push in through the open door. 
how do i know what be great how do i know what be least. that be my father s business say eddi wilfrid s priest. 
but three be gather together listen to me and attend. i bring good news my brother. say eddi of manhood end. 
and he tell the ox of a manger and a stall in bethlehem and he speak to the as of a rider that ride to jerusalem. 
they steam and drip in the chancel they listen and never stir while just a though they be bishop eddi preach them the word. 
till the gale blow off on the marsh and the window show the day and the ox and the as together wheel and clatter away. 
and when the saxon mock him say eddi of manhood end i dare not shut his chapel on such a care to attend. 
shiv and the grasshopper. 
shiv who pour the harvest and make the wind to blow sit at the doorway of a day of long ago give to each his portion food and toil and fate from the king upon the guddee to the beggar at the gate. all thing make he shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. he make all thorn for the camel fodder for the kine and mother s heart for sleepy head o little son of mine. 
wheat he give to rich folk millet to the poor break scrap for holy men that beg from door to door. cattle to the tiger carrion to the kite and rag and bone to wicked wolf without the wall at night. naught he find too lofty none he saw too low parbati beside him watch them come and go. think to cheat her husband turn shiv to jest steal the little grasshopper and hide it in her breast. so she trick him shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. turn and see. tall be the camel heavy be the kine but this be least of little thing o little son of mine. 
when the dole be end laughingly she say master of a million mouth be not one unfed. laugh shiv make answer all have have their part even he the little one hide neath thy heart. from her breast she pluck it parbati the thief saw the least of little thing gnaw a new grow leaf. saw and fear and wonder make prayer to shiv who hath surely give meat to all that live. all thing make he shiva the preserver. mahadeo. mahadeo. he make all thorn for the camel fodder for the kine and mother s heart for sleepy head o little son of mine. 
the fairy siege. 
i have be give my charge to keep well have i keep the same. play with strife for the most of my life but this be a different game. i_ ll not fight against sword unseen or spear that i cannot view hand him the key of the place on your knee ti the dreamer whose dream come true. 
ask for his term and accept them at once. quick ere we anger him. go. never before have i flinch from the gun but this be a different show. i_ ll not fight with the herald of god. i know what his master can do. open the gate he must enter in state ti the dreamer whose dream come true. 
i d not give way for an emperor i d hold my road for a king to the triple crown i would not bow down but this be a different thing. i_ ll not fight with the power of air sentry pas him through. drawbridge let fall it s the lord of u all the dreamer whose dream come true. 
a song to mithra. 
hymn of the th legion. circa a. d. 
mithra god of the morning our trumpet waken the wall. rome be above the nation but thou art over all. now a the name be answer and the guard be march away mithra also a soldier give u strength for the day. 
mithra god of the noontide the heather swim in the heat. our helmet scorch our forehead our sandal burn our foot. now in the ungirt hour now ere we blink and drowse mithra also a soldier keep u true to our vow. 
mithra god of the sunset low on the western main thou descend immortal immortal to rise again. now when the watch be end now when the wine be draw mithra also a soldier keep u pure till the dawn. 
mithra god of the midnight here where the great bull dy look on thy child in darkness. oh take our sacrifice. many road thou hast fashion all of them lead to the light. mithra also a soldier teach u to die aright. 
the new knighthood. 
who give him the bath. i say the wet rank jungle sweat i ll give him the bath. 
who ll sing the psalm. we say the palm. ere the hot wind becalm we ll sing the psalm. 
who lay on the sword. i say the sun before he ha do i ll lay on the sword. 
who fasten his belt. i say short ration i know all the fashion of tighten a belt. 
who give him his spur. i say his chief exact and brief i ll give him the spur. 
who ll shake his hand. i say the fever and i m no deceiver i ll shake his hand. 
who bring him the wine. i say quinine it s a habit of mine. i_ ll come with the wine. 
who ll put him to proof. i say all earth whatever he s worth i ll put to the proof. 
who ll choose him for knight. i say his mother before any other my very own knight. 
and after this fashion adventure to seek be sir galahad make a it might be last week. 
outsong in the jungle. 
baloo. 
for the sake of him who show one wise frog the jungle road keep the law the man pack make for thy blind old baloo s sake. clean or taint hot or stale hold it a it be the trail through the day and through the night quest neither leave nor right. for the sake of him who love thee beyond all else that move when thy pack would make thee pain say. tabaqui sing again. when thy pack would work thee ill say. shere khan be yet to kill. when the knife be draw to slay keep the law and go thy way. root and honey palm and spathe guard a cub from harm and scathe. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
kaa. 
anger be the egg of fear only lidless eye be clear. cobra poison none may leech even so with cobra speech. open talk shall call to thee strength whose mate be courtesy. send no lunge beyond thy length. lend no rotten bough thy strength. gauge thy gape with buck or goat l thine eye should choke thy throat after gorge wouldst thou sleep. look thy den be hide and deep l a wrong by thee forget draw thy killer to the spot. east and west and north and south wash thy hide and close thy mouth. pit and rift and blue pool brim middle jungle follow him. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
bagheera. 
in the cage my life begin. well i know the worth of man. by the break lock that free man cub ware the man cub s breed. scent dew or starlight pale choose no tangle tree cat trail. pack or council hunt or den cry no truce with jackal men. fee them silence when they say. come with u an easy way. fee them silence when they seek help of thine to hurt the weak. make no bandar s boast of skill. hold thy peace above the kill. let nor call nor song nor sign turn thee from thy hunt line. morning mist or twilight clear serve him warden of the deer. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
the three. 
on the trail that thou must tread to the threshold of our dread where the flower blossom red. through the night when thou shalt lie prisoned from our mother sky hear u thy love go by. in the dawn when thou shalt wake to the toil thou canst not break heartsick for the jungle s sake. wood and water wind and tree wisdom strength and courtesy jungle favour go with thee. 
harp song of the dane woman. 
what be a woman that you forsake her and the hearth fire and the home acre to go with the old grey widow maker. 
she ha no house to lay a guest in but one chill bed for all to rest in that the pale sun and the stray berg nest in. 
she ha no strong white arm to fold you but the ten time finger weed to hold you out on the rock where the tide ha roll you. 
yet when the sign of summer thicken and the ice break and the birch bud quicken yearly you turn from our side and sicken. 
sicken again for the shout and the slaughter. you steal away to the lap water and look at your ship in her winter quarter. 
you forget our mirth and talk at the table the kine in the shed and the horse in the stable to pitch her side and go over her cable. 
then you drive out where the storm cloud swallow and the sound of your oar blade fall hollow. be all we have leave through the month to follow. 
ah what be woman that you forsake her and the hearth fire and the home acre to go with the old grey widow maker. 
the thousandth man. 
one man in a thousand solomon say will stick more close than a brother. and it s worth while seek him half your day if you find him before the other. nine hundred and ninety nine depend on what the world see in you but the thousandth man will stand your friend with the whole round world agin you. 
ti neither promise nor prayer nor show will settle the find for ee. nine hundred and ninety nine of em go by your look or your act or your glory. but if he find you and you find him the rest of the world don t matter. for the thousandth man will sink or swim with you in any water. 
you can use his purse with no more talk than he us yours for his spending and laugh and meet in your daily walk a though there have be no lending. nine hundred and ninety nine of em call for silver and gold in their dealing. but the thousandth man he s worth em all. because you can show him your feeling. 
his wrong s your wrong and his right s your right in season or out of season. stand up and back it in all men s sight with that for your only reason. nine hundred and ninety nine can t bide the shame or mock or laughter but the thousandth man will stand by your side to the gallows foot and after. 
the winner. 
what be the moral. who ride may read. when the night be thick and the track be blind a friend at a pinch be a friend indeed but a fool to wait for the laggard behind. down to gehenna or up to the throne he travel the fast who travel alone. 
white hand cling to the tighten rein slip the spur from the boot heel tender voice cry turn again red lip tarnish the scabbarded steel high hope faint on a warm hearth stone he travel the fast who travel alone. 
one may fall but he fall by himself fall by himself with himself to blame one may attain and to him be pelf loot of the city in gold or fame. plunder of earth shall be all his own who travel the fast and travel alone. 
wherefore the more ye be holpen and stay stay by a friend in the hour of toil sing the heretical song i have make his be the labour and yours be the spoil win by his aid and the aid disown he travel the fast who travel alone. 
a st. helena lullaby. 
how far be st. helena from a little child at play. what make you want to wander there with all the world between. oh mother call your son again or else he ll run away. no one think of winter when the grass be green. 
how far be st. helena from a fight in paris street. i haven t time to answer now the men be fall fast. the gun begin to thunder and the drum begin to beat. if you take the first step you will take the last. 
how far be st. helena from the field of austerlitz. you couldn t hear me if i tell so loud the cannon roar. but not so far for people who be live by their wit. gay go up mean gay go down the wide world o er. 
how far be st. helena from an emperor of france. i cannot see i cannot tell the crown they dazzle so. the king sit down to dinner and the queen stand up to dance. after open weather you may look for snow. 
how far be st. helena from the cape of trafalgar. a longish way a longish way with ten year more to run. it s south across the water underneath a set star. what you cannot finish you must leave undo. 
how far be st. helena from the beresina ice. an ill way a chill way the ice begin to crack. but not so far for gentleman who never take advice. when you can t go forward you must e en come back. 
how far be st. helena from the field of waterloo. a near way a clear way the ship will take you soon. a pleasant place for gentleman with little leave to do. morning never try you till the afternoon. 
how far from st. helena to the gate of heaven s grace. that no one know that no one know and no one ever will. but fold your hand across your heart and cover up your face and after all your trap child lie still. 
chil s song. 
these be my companion go forth by night. for chil. look you for chil. now come i to whistle them the end of the fight. chil. vanguard of chil. word they give me overhead of quarry newly slay word i give them underfoot of buck upon the plain. here s an end of every trail they shall not speak again. 
they that call the hunt cry they that follow fast. for chil. look you for chil. they that bid the sambhur wheel or pin him a he pass. chil. vanguard of chil. they that lag behind the scent they that run before they that shun the level horn they that overbear here s an end of every trail they shall not follow more. 
these be my companion. pity twas they die. for chil. look you for chil. now come i to comfort them that know them in their pride. chil. vanguard of chil. tattered flank and sink eye open mouth and red lock and lank and lone they lie the dead upon their dead. here s an end of every trail and here my host be feed. 
the captive. 
not with an outcry to allah nor any complain he answer his name at the muster and stand to the chain. when the twin anklet be nip on the leg bar that hold them he brotherly greet the armourer stoop to weld them. ere the sad dust of the marshal foot of the chain gang swallow him observe him nobly at ease i alight and follow him. thus we have speech by the way but not touch his sorrow rather his red yesterday and his regal to morrow wherein he statelily move to the clink of his chain unregarded nowise abash but content to drink of the potion award. salute aloofly his fate he make swift with his story and the word of his mouth be a slave spread carpet of glory embroider with name of the djinn a miraculous weave but the cool and perspicuous eye overbear unbelieving. so i submit myself to the limit of rapture bind by this man we have bind amid captive his capture till he return me to earth and the vision depart. but on him be the peace and the bless. for he be great hearted. 
the puzzler. 
the celt in all his variant from builth to ballyhoo his mental process be plain one know what he will do and can logically predicate his finish by his start. but the english ah the english they be quite a race apart. 
their psychology be bovine their outlook crude and raw. they abandon vital matter to be tickle with a straw but the straw that they be tickle with the chaff that they be feed with they convert into a weaver s beam to break their foeman s head with. 
for undemocratic reason and for motif not of state they arrive at their conclusion largely inarticulate. be void of self expression they confide their view to none. but sometimes in a smoke room one learn why thing be do. 
yes sometimes in a smoke room through cloud of er and ums obliquely and by inference illumination come on some step that they have take or some action they approve embellish with the argot of the upper fourth remove. 
in telegraphic sentence half nod to their friend they hint a matter s inwardness and there the matter end. and while the celt be talk from valencia to kirkwall the english ah the english. don t say anything at all. 
hadramauti. 
who know the heart of the christian. how doe he reason. what be his measure and balance. which be his season for laughter forbearance or bloodshed and what devil move him when he arise to smite u. i do not love him. 
he invite the derision of stranger he enter all place. boot bareheaded he enter. with shout and embrace he ask of u news of the household whom we reckon nameless. certainly allah create him forty fold shameless. 
so it be not in the desert. one come to me weep the avenger of blood on his track i take him in keep. demand not whom he have slay i refresh him i feed him a he be even a brother. but eblis have breed him. 
he be the son of an ape ill at ease in his clothe he talk with his head hand and foot. i endure him with loathe. whatever his spirit conceive his countenance show it a a frog show in a mud puddle. yet i abide it. 
i finger my beard and be dumb in silence confront him. his soul be too shallow for silence e en with death hunt him. i say. ti his weariness speak but when he have rest he chirp in my face like some sparrow and presently jest. 
wherefore slew i that strange. he bring me dishonour. i saddle my mare bijli i set him upon her. i give him rice and goat s flesh. he bar me to laughter. when he be go from my tent swift i follow after take my sword in my hand. the hot wine have fill him. under the star he mock me therefore i kill him. 
chapter heading. 
the naulahka. 
we meet in an evil land that be near to the gate of hell. i wait for thy command to serve to speed or withstand. and thou sayest i do not well. 
oh love the flower so red be only tongue of flame the earth be full of the dead the new kill restless dead. there be danger beneath and o erhead and i guard thy gate in fear of peril and jeopardy of word thou canst not hear of sign thou canst not see and thou sayest ti ill that i come. 
this i saw when the rite be do and the lamp be dead and the god alone and the grey snake coil on the altar stone ere i flee from a fear that i could not see and the god of the east make mouth at me. 
* * * * *. 
now it be not good for the christian s health to hustle the aryan brown for the christian rile and the aryan smile and he weareth the christian down. and the end of the fight be a tombstone white with the name of the late decease and the epitaph drear. a fool lie here who try to hustle the east. 
* * * * *. 
beat off in our last fight be we. the great need to seek the sea. for fortune changeth a the moon to caravel and picaroon. then eastward ho. or westward ho. whichever wind may meet blow. our quarry sail on either sea fat prey for such bold lad a we. and every sun dry buccaneer must hand and reef and watch and steer. and bear great wrath of sea and sky before the plate ship wallow by. now a our tall bow take the foam let no man turn his heart to home save to desire treasure more and large warehouse for his store when treasure win from santos bay shall make our sea wash village gay. 
* * * * *. 
because i seek it far from men in desert and alone i find it burn overhead the jewel of a throne. 
because i seek i seek it so and spend my day to find it blaze one moment ere it leave the black night behind. 
* * * * *. 
when a lover hie abroad. look for his love azrael smile sheathe his sword heaven smile above. earth and sea his servant be and to less compass round that his love be sooner find. 
* * * * *. 
there be a strife twixt man and maid oh that be at the birth of time. but what befall twixt man and maid oh that s beyond the grip of rhyme. twas sweet i must not bide with you and love i cannot bide alone. for both be young and both be true and both be hard a the nether stone. 
* * * * *. 
there be pleasure in the wet wet clay when the artist s hand be pot it. there be pleasure in the wet wet lay when the poet s pad be blot it. there be pleasure in the shine of your picture on the line at the royal acade my. but the pleasure felt in these be a chalk to cheddar cheese when it come to a well make lie. to a quite unwreckable lie to a most impeccable lie. to a water tight fire proof angle iron sink hinge time lock steel face lie. not a private hansom lie but a pair and brougham lie not a little place at toot but a country house with shoot and a ring fence deer park lie. 
* * * * *. 
we be the god of the east old than all master of mourn and feast how shall we fall. 
will they gape for the husk that ye proffer or yearn to your song. and we have we nothing to offer who rule them so long in the fume of the incense the clash of the cymbal the blare of the conch and the gong. 
over the strife of the school low the day burn back with the kine from the pool each one return to the life that he know where the altar flame glow and the tulsi be trim in the urn. 
* * * * *. 
the light that fail. 
so we settle it all when the storm be do a comfy a comfy could be. and i be to wait in the barn my dear because i be only three and teddy would run to the rainbow s foot because he be five and a man. and that s how it all begin my dear and that s how it all begin. 
* * * * *. 
if i have take the common clay and work it cunningly in the shape of a god that be digged a clod the great honour to me. if thou hast take the common clay and thy hand be not free from the taint of the soil thou hast make thy spoil the great shame to thee. 
* * * * *. 
the wolf cub at even lay hide in the corn where the smoke of the cook hang grey. he know where the doe make a couch for her fawn and he look to his strength for his prey. but the moon sweep the smoke wreath away and he turn from his meal in the villager s close and he bay to the moon a she rise. 
* * * * *. 
the lark will make her hymn to god the partridge call her brood while i forget the heath i tread the field wherein i stand. 
ti dule to know not night from morn but great dule to know i can but hear the hunter s horn that once i use to blow. 
* * * * *. 
there be three friend that bury the fourth the mould in his mouth and the dust in his eye and they go south and east and north the strong man fight but the sick man dy. 
there be three friend that speak of the dead the strong man fight but the sick man dy and would he be here with u now they say the sun in our face and the wind in our eye. 
* * * * *. 
yet at the last ere our spearmen have find him yet at the last ere a sword thrust could save yet at the last with his master around him he speak of the faith a a master to slave. yet at the last though the kafir have maim him break by bondage and wreck by the reiver yet at the last tho the darkness have claim him he call upon allah and die a believer. 
gallio s song. 
and gallio care for none of these thing. act xviii. 
all day long to the judgment seat the craze provincial draw all day long at their ruler s foot howl for the blood of the jew. insurrection with one accord band itself and wake and paul be about to open his mouth when achaia s deputy speak. 
whether the god descend from above or the man ascend upon high whether this maker of tent be jove or a young deity i will be no judge between your god and your godless bickering. lictor drive them hence with rod i care for none of these thing. 
be it a question of lawful due or cæsar s rule deny reason would i should bear with you and order it well to be try. but this be a question of word and name. i know the strife it bring. i will not pas upon any your claim. i care for none of these thing. 
one thing only i see most clear a i pray you also see. claudius cæsar hath set me here rome s deputy to be. it be her peace that ye go to break not mine nor any king s. but touch your clamour of conscience sake i care for none of these thing. 
whether ye rise for the sake of a creed or riot in hope of spoil equally will i punish the deed equally check the broil. nowise permit injustice at all from whatever doctrine it spring but whether ye follow priapus or paul i care for none of these thing. 
the bee and the fly. 
a farmer of the augustan age peruse in virgil s golden page the story of the secret win from proteus by cyrene s son how the dank sea god show the swain mean to restore his hive again. more briefly how a slaughter bull breed honey by the bellyful. 
the egregious rustic put to death a bull by stop of it breath dispose the carcass in a shed with fragrant herb and branch spread and have thus perform the charm sit down to wait the promise swarm. 
nor wait long. the god of day impartial quicken with his ray evil and good alike behold the carcass and the carcass swell. big with new birth the belly heave beneath it screen of scent leaf. past any doubt the bull conceive. 
the farmer bid men bring more hive to house the profit that arrive. prepare on pan and key and kettle sweet music that shall make em settle. but when to crown the work he go god. what a stink salute his nose. 
where be the honest toiler. where the gravid mistress of their care. a busy scene indeed he see but not a sign or sound of bee. worm of the ripe grave unhid by any kindly coffin lid obscene and shameless to the light seethe in insatiate appetite through putrid offal while above the hiss blow fly seek his love whose offspring sup where they supt consume corruption twice corrupt. 
road song of the bandar log. 
here we go in a fling festoon half way up to the jealous moon. don t you envy our pranceful band. don t you wish you have extra hand. wouldn t you like if your tail be so curve in the shape of a cupid s bow. now you re angry but never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. 
here we sit in a branchy row think of beautiful thing we know. dream of deed that we mean to do all complete in a minute or two something noble and grand and good win by merely wish we could. now we re go to never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. 
all the talk we ever have hear utter by bat or beast or bird hide or fin or scale or feather jabber it quickly and all together. excellent. wonderful. once again. now we be talk just like men. let s pretend we be. never mind brother thy tail hang down behind. this be the way of the monkey kind. 
then join our leap line that scumfish through the pine that rocket by where light and high the wild grape swing. by the rubbish in our wake and the noble noise we make be sure be sure we re go to do some splendid thing. 
our father also. 
throne power dominion people king be change neath our hand. our father also see these thing but they do not understand. 
by they be by with mirth and tear wit or the work of desire cushion about on the kindly year between the wall and the fire. 
the grape be press the corn be shock standeth no more to glean. for the gate of love and learn lock when they go out between. 
all lore our lady venus bar signal it be or tell by the dear lip long give to theirs and long to the mould. 
all profit all device all truth write it be or say by the mighty men of their mighty youth which be mighty be dead. 
the film that float before their eye the temple s veil they call. and the dust that on the shewbread lie be holy over all. 
warn them of sea that slip our yoke of slow conspire star the ancient front of thing unbroke but heavy with new war. 
by they be by with mirth and tear wit or the waste of desire cushion about on the kindly year between the wall and the fire. 
a british roman song. 
a. d. 
my father s father saw it not and i belike shall never come to look on that so holy spot the very rome. 
crown by all time all art all might the equal work of god and man city beneath whose old height the race begin. 
soon to send forth again a brood unshakeable we pray that cling to rome s thrice hammer hardihood in arduous thing. 
strong heart with triple armour bind beat strongly for thy life blood run age after age the empire round in u thy son. 
who distant from the seven hill love and serve much require thee thee to guard gainst home bear ill the imperial fire. 
a pict song. 
rome never look where she tread. always her heavy hoof fall on our stomach our heart or our head. and rome never heed when we bawl. her sentry pas on that be all and we gather behind them in horde and plot to reconquer the wall with only our tongue for our sword. 
we be the little folk we. too little to love or to hate. leave u alone and you ll see how we can drag down the state. we be the worm in the wood. we be the rot at the root. we be the germ in the blood. we be the thorn in the foot. 
mistletoe kill an oak rat gnaw cable in two moth make hole in a cloak how they must love what they do. yes and we little folk too we be busy a they work our work out of view watch and you ll see it some day. 
no indeed. we be not strong but we know people that be. yes and we ll guide them along to smash and destroy you in war. we shall be slave just the same. yes we have always be slave but you you will die of the shame and then we shall dance on your graf. 
we be the little folk we etc. 
the strange. 
the strange within my gate he may be true or kind. but he doe not talk my talk i cannot feel his mind. i see the face and the eye and the mouth but not the soul behind. 
the men of my own stock they may do ill or well but they tell the lie i be wonted to they be use to the lie i tell. we do not need interpreter when we go to buy and sell. 
the strange within my gate he may be evil or good but i cannot tell what power control what reason sway his mood. nor when the god of his far off land may repossess his blood. 
the men of my own stock bitter bad they may be but at least they hear the thing i hear and see the thing i see. and whatever i think of them and their like they think of the like of me. 
this be my father s belief and this be also mine. let the corn be all one sheaf and the grape be all one vine ere our child s teeth be set on edge by bitter bread and wine. 
rimini. 
march song of a roman legion of the late empire. 
when i leave home for lalage s sake by the legion road to rimini she vow her heart be mine to take with me and my shield to rimini. till the eagle fly from rimini. and i ve tramp britain and i ve tramp gaul and the pontic shore where the snow flake fall a white a the neck of lalage. a cold a the heart of lalage. and i ve lose britain and i ve lose gaul and i ve lose rome and bad of all i ve lose lalage. 
when you go by the via aurelia a thousand have travel before remember the luck of the soldier who never saw rome any more. oh dear be the sweetheart that kiss him and dear be the mother that bore but his shield be pick up in the heather and he never saw rome any more. 
and he leave rome etc. 
when you go by the via aurelia that run from the city to gaul remember the luck of the soldier who rise to be master of all. he carry the sword and the buckler he mount his guard on the wall till the legion elect him cæsar and he rise to be master of all. 
and he leave rome etc. 
it s twenty five march to narbo it s forty five more up the rhone and the end may be death in the heather or life on an emperor s throne. 
but whether the eagle obey u or we go to the raven alone i d sooner be lalage s lover than sit on an emperor s throne. 
we ve all leave rome for lalage s sake etc. 
poor honest men. 
a. d. 
your jar of virginny will cost you a guinea which you reckon too much by five shilling or ten. but light your churchwarden and judge it accord when i ve tell you the trouble of poor honest men. 
from the cape of the delaware a you be well aware we sail with tobacco for england but then our own british cruiser they watch u come through sir and they press half a score of u poor honest men. 
or if by quick sail. thick weather prevail. we leave them behind. a we do now and then. we be sure of a gun from each frigate we run from which be often destruction to poor honest men. 
broadside the atlantic we tumble short hand with shoot hole to plug and new canvas to bend and off the azores dutch don and monsieur be wait to terrify poor honest men. 
napoleon s embargo be lay on all cargo which comfort or aid to king george may intend. and since roll twist and leaf of all comfort be chief they try for to steal it from poor honest men. 
with no heart for fight we take refuge in flight but fire a we run our retreat to defend until our stern chaser cut up her fore brace and she fly up the wind from u poor honest men. 
twix the forty and fifty south eastward the drift be and so when we think we be make land s end ala. it be ushant with half the king s navy blockade french port against poor honest men. 
but they may not quit station. which be our salvation. so swiftly we stand to the nor ard again. and find the tail of a homeward bind convoy we slip past the scillies like poor honest men. 
twix the lizard and dover we hand our stuff over though i may not inform how we do it nor when. but a light on each quarter low down on the water be well understand by poor honest men. 
even then we have danger from meddlesome stranger who spy on our business and be not content to take a smooth answer except with a handspike. and they say they be murder by poor honest men. 
to be drown or be shoot be our natural lot why should we moreover be hang in the end after all our great pain for to dangle in chain a though we be smuggler not poor honest men. 
when the great ark. 
when the great ark in vigo bay ride stately through the half man fleet from every ship about her way she hear the mariner entreat before we take the sea again let down your boat and send u men. 
we have no lack of victual here with work god know. enough for all to hand and reef and watch and steer because our present strength be small. while your three deck be crowd so your crew can scarcely stand or go. 
in war your number do but raise confusion and divide will. in storm the mindless deep obey not multitude but single skill. in calm your number closely press. do breed a mutiny or pest. 
we even on unchallenged sea dare not adventure where we would but forfeit brave advantage for lack of men to make em good. whereby to england s double cost. honour and profit both be lose. 
prophet at home. 
prophet have honour all over the earth except in the village where they be bear. where such a know them boy from birth nature ally hold em in scorn. 
when prophet be naughty and young and vain they make a win erful grievance of it. you can see by their writing how they complain. but o ti win erful good for the prophet. 
there s nothing nineveh town can give. nor be swallow by whale between. make up for the place where a man s folk live which don t care nothing what he ha be. he might ha be that or he might ha be this but they love and they hate him for what he be. 
jubal and tubal cain. 
jubal sing of the wrath of god and the curse of thistle and thorn but tubal get him a point rod and scrabble the earth for corn. old old a that early mould young a the sprout grain yearly green be the strife between jubal and tubal cain. 
jubal sing of the new find sea and the love that it wave divide but tubal hollow a fall tree and pass to the further side. black black a the hurricane wrack salt a the under main bitter and cold be the hate they hold jubal and tubal cain. 
jubal sing of the golden year when war and wound shall cease but tubal fashion the hand fling spear and showèd his neighbour peace. new new a the nine point two old than lamech s slay roar and loud be the feud avow twix jubal and tubal cain. 
jubal sing of the cliff that bar and the peak that none may crown but tubal clamber by jut and scar and there he build a town. high high a the snowsheds lie low a the culvert drain wherever they be they can never agree jubal and tubal cain. 
the voortrekker. 
the gull shall whistle in his wake the blind wave break in fire. he shall fulfil god s utmost will unknowing his desire. and he shall see old planet change and alien star arise and give the gale his seaworn sail in shadow of new sky. strong lust of gear shall drive him forth and hunger arm his hand to win his food from the desert rude his pittance from the sand. his neighbour smoke shall vex his eye their voice break his rest he shall go forth till south be north sullen and dispossess. he shall desire loneliness and his desire shall bring hard on his heel a thousand wheel a people and a king. he shall come back on his own track and by his scarce cool camp there shall he meet the roar street the derrick and the stamp. there he shall blaze a nation s way with hatchet and with brand till on his last win wilderness an empire s outpost stand. 
a school song. 
let u now praise famous men men of little show for their work continueth and their work continueth broad and deep continueth great than their know. 
western wind and open surge take u from our mother. fling u on a naked shore. twelve bleak house by the shore. seven summer by the shore. mid two hundred brother. 
there we meet with famous men set in office o er u. and they beat on u with rod faithfully with many rod daily beat on u with rod for the love they bore u. 
out of egypt unto troy over himalaya far and sure our band have go hy brasil or babylon island of the southern run and city of cathaia. 
and we all praise famous men ancient of the college. for they teach u common sense try to teach u common sense truth and god s own common sense which be more than knowledge. 
each degree of latitude string about creation seeth one or more of u. of one muster each of u. diligent in that he doe keen in his vocation. 
this we learn from famous men know not it us when they show in daily work man must finish off his work right or wrong his daily work and without excuse. 
servant of the staff and chain mine and fuse and grapnel some before the face of king stand before the face of king. bear gift to diver king gift of case and shrapnel. 
this we learn from famous men teach in our border who declarèd it be best safe easy and best expeditious wise and best to obey your order. 
some beneath the further star bear the great burden. set to serve the land they rule. save he serve no man may rule. serve and love the land they rule. seek praise nor guerdon. 
this we learn from famous men know not we learn it. only a the year go by lonely a the year go by far from help a year go by plain we discern it. 
wherefore praise we famous men from whose bay we borrow they that put aside to day all the joy of their to day and with toil of their to day buy for u to morrow. 
bless and praise we famous men men of little show for their work continueth and their work continueth broad and deep continueth great beyond their know. 
the law of the jungle. 
now this be the law of the jungle a old and a true a the sky. and the wolf that shall keep it may prosper but the wolf that shall break it must die. 
a the creeper that girdle the tree trunk the law runneth forward and back for the strength of the pack be the wolf and the strength of the wolf be the pack. 
wash daily from nose tip to tail tip. drink deeply but never too deep. and remember the night be for hunt and forget not the day be for sleep. 
the jackal may follow the tiger but cub when thy whisker be grow remember the wolf be a hunter go forth and get food of thine own. 
keep peace with the lord of the jungle the tiger the panther the bear. and trouble not hathi the silent and mock not the boar in his lair. 
when pack meet with pack in the jungle and neither will go from the trail lie down till the leader have speak it may be fair word shall prevail. 
when ye fight with a wolf of the pack ye must fight him alone and afar l others take part in the quarrel and the pack be diminish by war. 
the lair of the wolf be his refuge and where he ha make him his home not even the head wolf may enter not even the council may come. 
the lair of the wolf be his refuge but where he ha digged it too plain the council shall send him a message and so he shall change it again. 
if ye kill before midnight be silent and wake not the wood with your bay l ye frighten the deer from the crop and the brother go empty away. 
ye may kill for yourselves and your mate and your cub a they need and ye can. but kill not for pleasure of kill and seven time never kill man. 
if ye plunder his kill from a weak devour not all in thy pride. pack right be the right of the mean. so leave him the head and the hide. 
the kill of the pack be the meat of the pack. ye must eat where it lie. and no one may carry away of that meat to his lair or he dy. 
the kill of the wolf be the meat of the wolf. he may do what he will but till he ha give permission the pack may not eat of that kill. 
cub right be the right of the yearling. from all of his pack he may claim full gorge when the killer ha eat. and none may refuse him the same. 
lair right be the right of the mother. from all of her year she may claim one haunch of each kill for her litter. and none may deny her the same. 
cave right be the right of the father to hunt by himself for his own. he be free of all call to the pack. he be judge by the council alone. 
because of his age and his cunning because of his gripe and his paw in all that the law leaveth open the word of the head wolf be law. 
now these be the law of the jungle and many and mighty be they. but the head and the hoof of the law and the haunch and the hump be obey. 
a servant when he reigneth. 
for three thing the earth be disquiet and for four which it cannot bear. for a servant when he reigneth. and a fool when he be fill with meat. for an odious woman when she be marry. and an handmaid that be heir to her mistress. prov. xxx. 
three thing make earth unquiet and four she cannot brook. the godly agur count them and put them in a book those four tremendous curse with which mankind be curse. but a servant when he reigneth old agur count first. 
an handmaid that be mistress we need not call upon a fool when he be full of meat will fall asleep anon. an odious woman marry may bear a babe and mend. but a servant when he reigneth be confusion to the end. 
his foot be swift to tumult his hand be slow to toil his ear be deaf to reason his lip be loud in broil. he know no use for power except to show his might he give no heed to judgment unless it prove him right. 
because he serve a master before his kingship come and hide in all disaster behind his master s name so when his folly open the unnecessary hell a servant when he reigneth throw the blame on some one else. 
his vow be lightly speak his faith be hard to bind. his trust be easy break he fear his fellow kind. the near mob will move him to break the pledge he give oh a servant when he reigneth be more than ever slave. 
our father of old. 
excellent herb have our father of old excellent herb to ease their pain alexander and marigold eyebright orris and elecampane. basil rocket valerian rue. almost sing themselves they run. vervain dittany call me to you cowslip melilot rise of the sun. anything green that grow out of the mould be an excellent herb to our father of old. 
wonderful tale have our father of old wonderful tale of the herb and the star the sun be lord of the marigold basil and rocket belong to mar. pat a a sum in division it go. every plant have a star bespeak. who but venus should govern the rise. who but jupiter own the oak. simply and gravely the fact be tell in the wonderful book of our father of old. 
wonderful little when all be say wonderful little our father know. half their remedy cure you dead most of their teach be quite untrue look at the star when a patient be ill. dirt ha nothing to do with disease. bleed and blister a much a you will blister and bleed him a oft a you please. whence enormous and manifold error be make by our father of old. 
yet when the sickness be sore in the land and neither planet nor herb assuage they take their life in their lancet hand and oh what a wonderful war they wag. yes when the cross be chalk on the door. yes when the terrible dead cart roll. excellent courage our father bore excellent heart have our father of old. none too learn but nobly bold into the fight go our father of old. 
if it be certain a galen say and sage hippocrates hold a much that those afflict by doubt and dismay be mightily help by a dead man s touch then be good to u star above. then be good to u herb below. we be afflict by what we can prove we be distract by what we know so ah so. down from your heaven or up from your mould send u the heart of our father of old. 
the heritage. 
our father in a wondrous age ere yet the earth be small ensure to u an heritage and doubt not at all that we the child of their heart which then do beat so high in late time should play like part for our posterity. 
a thousand year they steadfast build to vantage u and ours the wall that be a world s despair the sea constrain tower. yet in their midmost pride they know and unto king make know not all from these their strength they draw their faith from brass or stone. 
youth s passion manhood s fierce intent. with age s judgment wise they spend and count not they spend. at daily sacrifice. not lamb alone nor purchase dove or tithe of trader s gold their life most dear their dear love they offer up of old. 
refrain e en from lawful thing. they bow the neck to bear the unadornèd yoke that bring stark toil and stern care. wherefore through them be freedom sure. wherefore through them we stand from all but sloth and pride secure in a delightsome land. 
then fretful murmur not they give so great a charge to keep. nor dream that awestruck time shall save their labour while we sleep. dear buy and clear a thousand year our father title run. make we likewise their sacrifice defraud not our son. 
chapter heading. 
beast and man in india. 
they kill a child to please the god in earth s young penitence and i have bleed in that babe s stead because of innocence. 
i bear the sin of sinful men that have no sin of my own they drive me forth to heaven s wrath unpastured and alone. 
i be the meat of sacrifice the ransom of man s guilt for they give my life to the altar knife wherever shrine be build. 
the goat. 
between the wave tuft of jungle grass up from the river a the twilight fall across the dust becloud plain they pas on to the village wall. 
great be the sword and mighty be the pen but great far the labour ploughman s blade for on it ox and it husbandman an empire s strength be lay. 
the ox. 
the tear bough trail o er the tusk aslant the sapling reel in the path he tread declare his might our lord the elephant chief of the way of god. 
the black bulk heave where the ox pant the bow head toil where the gun careen declare our might our slave the elephant and servant of the queen. 
the elephant. 
dark child of the mere and marsh wallow and waste and lea outcaste they wait at the village gate with folk of low degree. 
their pasture be in no man s land. their food the cattle s scorn their rest be mire and their desire the thicket and the thorn. 
but woe to those who break their sleep and woe to those who dare to rouse the herd bull from his keep the wild boar from his lair. 
pig and buffalo. 
the beast be very wise their mouth be clean of lie they talk one to the other bullock to bullock s brother rest after their labour each in stall with his neighbour. but man with goad and whip break up their fellowship shout in their silky ear fill their soul with fear. when he ha plough the land he say. they understand. but the beast in stall together free from the yoke and tether say a the tear flank smoke. nay twas the whip that speak. 
life s handicap. 
the door be wide the story saith out of the night come the patient wraith. he might not speak and he could not stir a hair of the baron s minniver. speechless and strengthless a shadow thin he rove the castle to find his kin. and oh. twas a piteous sight to see the dumb ghost follow his enemy. 
the return of imray. 
before my spring i garner autumn s gain out of her time my field be white with grain the year give up her secret to my woe. force and deflower each sick season lay in mystery of increase and decay. i saw the sunset ere men see the day who be too wise in all i should not know. 
without benefit of clergy. 
kim. 
unto whose use the pregnant sun be poise with idiot moon and star retract star. creep thou between thy come s all unnoised. heaven hath her high a earth her base war. heir to these tumult this affright that fray. by adam s father own sin bind alway. peer up draw out thy horoscope and say which planet mend thy threadbare fate or mar. 
many invention. 
and if ye doubt the tale i tell steer through the south pacific swell. go where the branch coral hive unending strife of endless life where league about the wildered boat the rainbow jelly fill and float. and lilt where the laver linger the starfish trip on all her finger. where neath his myriad spine ashock the sea egg ripple down the rock. an orange wonder daily guess from darkness where the cuttle rest moor o er the dark deep that hide the blind white sea snake and his bride who drowse nose the long lose ship let down through darkness to their lip. 
a matter of fact. 
there s a convict more in the central jail behind the old mud wall. there s a lifter le on the border trail and the queen s peace over all dear boy the queen s peace over all. 
for we must bear our leader s blame on u the shame will fall if we lift our hand from a fetter land and the queen s peace over all dear boy the queen s peace over all. 
the lose legion. 
le you want your toe tread off you d good get back at once for the bullock be walk two by two the byles be walk two by two and the elephant bring the gun. ho. yuss. great big long black forty pounder gun. jiggery jolty to and fro each a big a a launch in tow blind dumb broad breeched beggar o batter gun. 
my lord the elephant. 
all the world over nurse their scar sit the old fight men break in the war sit the old fight men surly and grim mock the lilt of the conqueror hymn. 
dust of the battle o erwhelmed them and hide. fame never find them for aught that they do. wound and spend to the lazar they draw line the road where the legion roll through. 
son of the laurel who press to your meed. worthy god s pity most ye who succeed. ere you go triumph crown to the star pity poor fight men break in the war. 
collect. 
song of the fifth river. 
when first by eden tree the four great river run to each be appoint a man her prince and ruler to be. 
but after this be ordain. the ancient legend tell. there come dark israel for whom no river remain. 
then he whom the river obey say to him. fling on the grind a handful of yellow clay and a fifth great river shall run mighty than these four in secret the earth around. and her secret evermore shall be show to thee and thy race. so it be say and do. and deep in the vein of earth and feed by a thousand spring that comfort the market place or sap the power of king the fifth great river have birth even a it be foretell the secret river of gold. 
and israel lay down his sceptre and his crown to brood on that river s bank where the water flash and sink and burrow in earth and fell and bid a season below for reason that none might know save only israel. 
he be lord of the last the fifth most wonderful flood. he hear her thunder past and her song be in his blood. he can foresay. she will fall for he know which fountain dry. behind which desert belt a thousand league to the south. 
he can foresay. she will rise. he know what far snow melt. along what mountain wall a thousand league to the north. he snuff the come drouth a he snuff the come rain he know what each will bring forth and turn it to his gain. 
a ruler without a throne a prince without a sword israel follow his quest. in every land a guest of many land a lord in no land king be he. but the fifth great river keep the secret of her deep for israel alone a it be order to be. 
the child s song. 
land of our birth we pledge to thee our love and toil in the year to be. when we be grow and take our place a men and woman with our race. 
father in heaven who lovest all oh help thy child when they call. that they may build from age to age an undefilèd heritage. 
teach u to bear the yoke in youth with steadfastness and careful truth. that in our time thy grace may give the truth whereby the nation live. 
teach u to rule ourselves alway control and cleanly night and day. that we may bring if need arise. no maim or worthless sacrifice. 
teach u to look in all our end on thee for judge and not our friend. that we with thee may walk uncowed by fear or favour of the crowd. 
teach u the strength that cannot seek by deed or think to hurt the weak. that under thee we may posse man s strength to comfort man s distress. 
teach u delight in simple thing and mirth that ha no bitter spring. forgiveness free of evil do and love to all men neath the sun. 
land of our birth our faith our pride for whose dear sake our father die. o motherland we pledge to thee head heart and hand through the year to be. 
parade song of the camp animal. 
elephant of the gun team. 
we lend to alexander the strength of hercules the wisdom of our forehead the cunning of our knee. we bow our neck to service. they ne er be loose again make way there way for the ten foot team of the forty pounder train. 
gun bullock. 
those hero in their harness avoid a cannon ball and what they know of powder upset them one and all. then we come into action and tug the gun again make way there way for the twenty yoke of the forty pounder train. 
cavalry horse. 
by the brand on my wither the fine of tune be play by the lancer hussar and dragoon and it s sweet than stable or water to me. the cavalry canter of bonnie dundee. 
then fee u and break u and handle and groom and give u good rider and plenty of room and launch u in column of squadron and see the way of the war horse to bonnie dundee. 
screw gun mule. 
a me and my companion be scramble up a hill the path be lose in roll stone but we go forward still. for we can wriggle and climb my lad and turn up everywhere and it s our delight on a mountain height with a leg or two to spare. 
good luck to every sergeant then that let u pick our road. bad luck to all the driver men that cannot pack a load. for we can wriggle and climb my lad and turn up everywhere and it s our delight on a mountain height with a leg or two to spare. 
commissariat camel. 
we haven t a camelty tune of our own to help u trollop along but every neck be a hair trombone. rtt ta ta ta. be a hair trombone. and this be our march song. can t. don t. shan t. win t. pas it along the line. somebody s pack ha slide from his back wish it be only mine. somebody s load ha tip off in the road cheer for a halt and a row. urrr. yarrh. grr. arrh. somebody s catch it now. 
all the beast together. 
child of the camp be we serve each in his degree. child of the yoke and goad pack and harness pad and load. see our line across the plain. like a heel rope bend again beach writhe roll far. sweep all away to war. while the men that walk beside dusty silent heavy eye cannot tell why we or they march and suffer day by day. child of the camp be we serve each in hiss degree. child of the yoke and goad pack and harness pad and load. 
if. 
if you can keep your head when all about you be lose theirs and blame it on you. if you can trust yourself when all men doubt you but make allowance for their doubt too. if you can wait and not be tire by wait or be lie about don t deal in lie or be hat don t give way to hat and yet don t look too good nor talk too wise. 
if you can dream and not make dream your master. if you can think and not make thought your aim. if you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostor just the same. if you can bear to hear the truth you ve speak twist by knave to make a trap for fool or watch the thing you give your life to break and stoop and build em up with wear out tool. 
if you can make one heap of all your winning and risk it on one turn of pitch and toss and lose and start again at your beginning and never breathe a word about your loss. if you can force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long after they be go. and so hold on when there be nothing in you except the will which say to them. hold on. 
if you can talk with crowd and keep your virtue or walk with king nor lose the common touch. if neither foe nor love friend can hurt you if all men count with you but none too much. if you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty second worth of distance run yours be the earth and everything that s in it and which be more you ll be a man my son. 
the prodigal son. 
western version. 
here come i to my own again feed forgive and know again claim by bone of my bone again and cheer by flesh of my flesh. the fat calf be dress for me but the husk have great zest for me i think my pig will be best for me so i m off to the yard afresh. 
i never be very refine you see. and it weigh on my brother s mind you see. but there s no reproach among swine d you see for be a bite of a swine. so i m off with wallet and staff to eat the bread that be three part chaff to wheat but glory be. there s a laugh to it which isn t the case when we dine. 
my father gloom and advise me my brother sulk and despise me and mother catechise me till i want to go out and swear. and in spite of the butler s gravity i know that the servant have it i be a monster of moral depravity and i m damn if i think it s fair. 
i waste my substance i know i do on riotous live so i do but there s nothing on record to show i do bad than my better have do. they talk of the money i spend out there they hint at the pace that i go out there but they all forget i be send out there alone a a rich man s son. 
so i be a mark for plunder at once and lose my cash. can you wonder. at once but i didn t give up and knock under at once i work in the yard for a spell. where i spend my night and my day with hog and share their milk and maize with hog till i guess i have learn what pay with hog and i have that knowledge to sell. 
so back i go to my job again not so easy to rob again or quite so ready to sob again on any neck that s around. i m leave pater. good bye to you. god bless you mat. i ll write to you. i wouldn t be impolite to you but brother you be a hound. 
the necessitarian. 
i know not in whose hand be lay to empty upon earth from unsuspected ambuscade the very urn of mirth. 
who bid the heavenly lark arise and cheer our solemn round the jest behold with stream eye and grovellings on the grind. 
who join the flat of time and chance behind the prey prefer and throne on shriek circumstance the sacredly absurd. 
till laughter voiceless through excess wave mute appeal and sore above the midriff s deep distress for breath to laugh once more. 
no creed hath dare to hail him lord no raptured choir proclaim and nature s strenuous overword hath nowhere breathe his name. 
yet it must be on wayside jape the selfsame power bestow the selfsame power a go to shape his planet or his rise. 
the jester. 
there be three degree of bliss at the foot of allah s throne and the high place be his who save a brother s soul at peril of his own. there be the power make know. 
there be three degree of bliss in the garden of paradise and the second place be his who save his brother s soul by excellent advice. for there the glory lie. 
there be three degree of bliss and three abode of the bless and the low place be his who ha save a soul by a jest and a brother s soul in sport. but there do the angel resort. 
a song of travel. 
where s the lamp that hero light once to call leander home. equal time hath shovel it neath the wrack of greece and rome. neither wait we any more that wear sail which argo bore. 
dust and dust of ash close all the vestal virgin care. and the old altar show but an old darkness there. age encamp oblivion tenteth every light that shine. 
yet shall we for sun that die wall our wandering from desire. or because the moon be high. scorn to use a near fire. l some envious pharaoh stir make our life our sepulchre. 
nay. though time with petty fate prison u and emperor by our art do we create that which time himself devour such machine a well may run gainst the horse of the sun. 
when we would a new abide space our tyrant king no more lay the long lance of the road at our foot and flee before breathless ere we overwhelm to submit a further realm. 
the two side man. 
much i owe to the land that grow more to the life that feed but most to allah who give me two separate side to my head. 
much i reflect on the good and the true in the faith beneath the sun but most upon allah who give me two side to my head not one. 
wesley s follow calvin s flock white or yellow or bronze shaman ju ju or angekok minister mukamuk bonze. 
here be a health my brother to you however your prayer be say and praise be allah who give me two separate side to my head. 
i would go without shirt or shoe friend tobacco or bread sooner than lose for a minute the two separate side of my head. 
lukannon. 
song of the breed seal. aleutian island. 
i meet my mate in the morning. and oh but i be old. where roar on the ledge the summer grind swell roll. i hear them lift the chorus that drown the breaker song the beach of lukannon two million voice strong. 
the song of pleasant station beside the salt lagoon the song of blow squadron that shuffle down the dune the song of midnight dance that churn the sea to flame the beach of lukannon before the sealer come. 
i meet my mate in the morning. i ll never meet them more. they come and go in legion that darken all the shore. and through the foam fleck off a far a voice could reach we hail the land party and we sing them up the beach. 
the beach of lukannon the winter wheat so tall the drip crinkle lichen and the sea fog drench all. the platform of our playground all shin smooth and wear. the beach of lukannon the home where we be bear. 
i meet my mate in the morning a break scatter band. men shoot u in the water and club u on the land. men drive u to the salt house like silly sheep and tame and still we sing lukannon before the sealer come. 
wheel down wheel down to southward. oh gooverooska go. and tell the deep sea viceroy the story of our woe. ere empty a the shark s egg the tempest fling ashore the beach of lukannon shall know their son no more. 
an astrologer s song. 
to the heaven above u o look and behold the planet that love u all harness in gold. what chariot what horse against u shall bide while the star in their course do fight on our side. 
all think all desire that be under the sun be one with their fire a we also be one. all matter all spirit all fashion all frame receive and inherit their strength from the same. 
oh man that deniest all power save thine own their power in the high be mightily show. not le in the low that power be make clear. oh man if thou knowest what treasure be here. 
earth quake in her throe and we wonder for why. but the blind planet know when her ruler be nigh. and attune since creation to perfect accord she thrill in her station and yearn to her lord. 
the water have rise the spring be unbind the flood break their prison and ravin around. no rampart withstand em their fury will last till the sign that command em sink low or swing past. 
through abyss unproven o er gulf beyond think our portion be weave our burden be bring. yet they that prepare it whose nature we share make u who must bear it well able to bear. 
though terror o ertake u we ll not be afraid. no power can unmake u save that which ha make. nor yet beyond reason or hope shall we fall all thing have their season and mercy crown all. 
then doubt not ye fearful the eternal be king up heart and be cheerful and lustily sing. what chariot what horse against u shall bide while the star in their course do fight on our side. 
the power of the dog. 
there be sorrow enough in the natural way from men and woman to fill our day. but when we be certain of sorrow in store why do we always arrange for more. brother and sister i bid you beware of give your heart to a dog to tear. 
buy a pup and your money will buy love unflinching that cannot lie perfect passion and worship feed by a kick in the rib or a pat on the head. nevertheless it be hardly fair to risk your heart for a dog to tear. 
when the fourteen year which nature permit be close in asthma or tumour or fit and the vet s unspoken prescription run to lethal chamber or load gun then you will find it s your own affair but. you ve give your heart to a dog to tear. 
when the body that live at your single will when the whimper of welcome be still. how still. when the spirit that answer your every mood be go wherever it go for good you will discover how much you care and will give your heart to a dog to tear. 
we ve sorrow enough in the natural way when it come to bury christian clay. our love be not give but only lend at compound interest of cent per cent. though it be not always the case i believe that the long we ve keep em the more do we grieve. for when debt be payable right or wrong a short time loan be a bad a a long so why in heaven. before we be there. should we give our heart to a dog to tear. 
the rabbi s song. 
if think can reach to heaven on heaven let it dwell for fear thy think be give like power to reach to hell. for fear the desolation and darkness of thy mind perplex an habitation which thou hast leave behind. 
let nothing linger after no whimper ghost remain in wall or beam or rafter of any hate or pain. cleanse and call home thy spirit deny her leave to cast on aught thy heir inherit the shadow of her past. for think in all thy sadness what road our grief may take. whose brain reflect our madness or whom our terror shake. for think l any languish by cause of thy distress the arrow of our anguish fly farther than we guess. 
our life our tear a water be spill upon the grind. god giveth no man quarter yet god a mean hath find though faith and hope have vanish and even love grow dim a mean whereby his banish be not expel from him. 
the bee boy s song. 
bee. bee. hark to your bee. hide from your neighbour a much a you please but all that ha happen to u you must tell or else we will give you no honey to sell. 
a maiden in her glory upon her wed day must tell her bee the story or else they ll fly away. fly away die away dwindle down and leave you. but if you don t deceive your bee your bee will not deceive you. 
marriage birth or buryin news across the sea all you re sad or merry in you must tell the bee. tell em come in an out where the fanners fan cause the bee be just about a curious a a man. 
don t you wait where tree be when the lightning play nor don t you hate where bee be or else they ll pine away. pine away dwine away anything to leave you. but if you never grieve your bee your bee ll never grieve you. 
the return of the child. 
neither the harp nor the crown amuse nor the cherub dive wing race hold hand forlornly the child wander beneath the dome pluck the splendid robe of the passer by and with pitiful face beg what prince and power refuse. ah please will you let u go home. 
over the jewel floor nigh weep run to them mary the mother kneel and caress and make promise with kiss and draw them along to the gateway yea the all iron unbribeable door which peter must guard and none other. straightway she take the key from his keep and open and free them straightway. 
then to her son who have see and smile she say. on the night that i bore thee what didst thou care for a love beyond mine or a heaven that be not my arm. didst thou push from the nipple o child to hear the angel adore thee. when we two lay in the breath of the kine. and he say. thou hast do no harm. 
so through the void the child run homeward merrily hand in hand look neither to leave nor right where the breathless heaven stand still. and the guard of the void resheathed their sword for they hear the command. shall i that have suffer the child to come to me hold them against their will. 
merrow down. 
i. 
there run a road by merrow down a grassy track to day it be an hour out of guildford town above the river wey it be. 
here when they hear the horse bell ring the ancient briton dress and ride to watch the dark phoenician bring their good along the western road. 
yes here or hereabouts they meet to hold their racial talk and such to barter bead for whitby jet and tin for gay shell torque and such. 
but long and long before that time. when bison use to roam on it. do taffy and her daddy climb that down and have their home on it. 
then beaver build in broadstonebrook and make a swamp where bramley stand. and bear from shere would come and look for taffimai where shamley stand. 
the wey that taffy call wagai be more than six time big then. and all the tribe of tegumai they cut a noble figure then. 
ii. 
of all the tribe of tegumai who cut that figure none remain on merrow down the cuckoo cry the silence and the sun remain. 
but a the faithful year return and heart unwounded sing again come taffy dance through the fern to lead the surrey spring again. 
her brow be bind with bracken frond and golden elf lock fly above. her eye be bright a diamond and blue than the sky above. 
in mocassin and deer skin cloak unfearing free and fair she flit and light her little damp wood smoke to show her daddy where she flit. 
for far oh very far behind so far she cannot call to him come tegumai alone to find the daughter that be all to him. 
old mother laidinwool. 
old mother laidinwool have nigh twelve month be dead. she hear the hop be do well an so pop up her head for say she. the lad i ve pick with when i be young and fair they re bind to be at hop and i m bind to meet em there. 
let me up and go back to the work i know lord. back to the work i know lord. for it s dark where i lie down my lord. an it s dark where i lie down. 
old mother laidinwool she give her bone a shake an trot down the churchyard path a fast a she could make. she meet the parson walk but she say to him say she. oh don t let no one trouble for a poor old ghost like me. 
twas all a warm september an the hop have flourish grand she saw the folk get into em with stockin s on their hand. an none of em be foreigner but all which she have know and old mother laidinwool she bless em every one. 
she saw her daughter pick an their child them beside an she move among the baby an she still em when they cry. she saw their clothe be buy not beg an they be clean an fat an old mother laidinwool she thank the lord for that. 
old mother laidinwool she wait on all day until it come too dark to see an people go away until it come too dark to see an light begin to show an old mother laidinwool she hadn t where to go. 
old mother laidinwool she give her bone a shake an trot back to churchyard mould a fast a she could make. she go where she be bid to an there lay down her ghost. an the lord have mercy on you in the day you need it most. 
let me in again out of the wet an rain lord. out of the dark an rain lord. for it s best a you shall say my lord. an it s best a you shall say. 
chapter heading. 
just so story. 
when the cabin port hole be dark and green because of the sea outside. when the ship go wop. with a wiggle between. and the steward fall into the soup tureen and the trunk begin to slide. when nursey lie on the floor in a heap and mummy tell you to let her sleep and you aren t wake or wash or dress why then you will know. if you haven t guess. you re fifty north and forty west. 
how the whale get his throat. 
the camel s hump be an ugly lump which well you may see at the zoo. but ugly yet be the hump we get from have too little to do. 
kiddy and grow up too oo oo if we haven t enough to do oo oo. we get the hump cameelious hump the hump that be black and blue. 
we climb out of bed with a frouzly head and a snarly yarly voice. we shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl at our bath and our boot and our toy. 
and there ought to be a corner for me. and i know there be one for you. when we get the hump cameelious hump the hump that be black and blue. 
the cure for this ill be not to sit still or frowst with a book by the fire. but to take a large hoe and a shovel also and dig till you gently perspire. 
and then you will find that the sun and the wind and the djinn of the garden too have lift the hump the horrible hump the hump that be black and blue. 
i get it a well a you oo oo if i haven t enough to do oo oo. we all get hump cameelious hump kiddy and grow up too. 
how the camel get his hump. 
i be the most wise baviaan say in most wise tone let u melt into the landscape just u two by our lones. people have come in a carriage call. but mummy be there. yes i can go if you take me nurse say she don t care. let s go up to the pig stye and sit on the farmyard rail. let s say thing to the bunny and watch em skitter their tail. let s oh anything_ daddy so long a it s you and me and go truly explore and not be in till tea. here s your boot. i ve bring em. and here s your cap and stick and here s your pipe and tobacco. oh come along out of it quick. 
how the leopard get his spot. 
i keep six honest serve men. they teach me all i know. their name be what and why and when and how and where and who. i send them over land and sea i send them east and west. but after they have work for me i give them all a rest. 
i let them rest from nine till five for i be busy then a well a breakfast lunch and tea for they be hungry men. 
but different folk have different view. i know a person small she keep ten million serve men who get no rest at all. she send em abroad on her own affair from the second she open her eye one million hows two million wheres and seven million why. 
the elephant s child. 
this be the mouth fill song of the race that be run by a boomer. run in a single burst only event of it kind start by big god nqong from warrigaborrigarooma old man kangaroo first yellow dog dingo behind. 
kangaroo bound away his back leg work like piston bound from morning till dark twenty five foot at a bind. yellow dog dingo lay like a yellow cloud in the distance much too busy to bark. my. but they cover the grind. 
nobody know where they go or follow the track that they fly in for that continent hadn t be give a name. they run thirty degree from torres strait to the leeuwin. look at the atlas please. then they run back a they come. 
s pose you could trot from adelaide to the pacific for an afternoon s run half what these gentleman do you would feel rather hot but your leg would develop terrific yes my importunate son you d be a marvellous kid. 
the sing song of old man kangaroo. 
i ve never sail the amazon i ve never reach brazil. but the don and magdalena_ they can go there when they will. 
yes weekly from southampton great steamer white and gold go roll down to rio. roll down roll down to rio. and i d like to roll to rio some day before i m old. 
i ve never see a jaguar nor yet an armadill o dilloing in his armour and i s pose i never will. 
unless i go to rio these wonder to behold roll down roll down to rio roll really down to rio. oh i d love to roll to rio some day before i m old. 
the begin of the armadilloes. 
china go p. and o. s pas pau amma s playground close and his pusat tasek lie near the track of most b. i. s. n. y. k. and n. d. l. know pau amma s home a well a the fisher of the sea know ben m. m. s and rubattinos. but. and this be rather queer. a. t. l. s can not come here. o. and o. and d. o. a. must go round another way. orient anchor bibby hall never go that way at all. u. c. s. would have a fit if it find itself on it. and if beaver take their cargo to penang instead of lagos or a fat shaw savill bore passenger to singapore or a white star be to try a little trip to sourabaya or a b. s. a. go on past natal to cheribon then great mr. lloyd would come with a wire and drag them home. 
* * * * *. 
you ll know what my riddle mean when you ve eat mangosteen. 
the crab that play with the sea. 
pussy can sit by the fire and sing pussy can climb a tree or play with a silly old cork and string to muse herself not me. but i like binkie my dog because he know how to behave. so binkie s the same a the first friend be and i be the man in the cave. 
pussy will play man friday till it s time to wet her paw and make her walk on the window sill. for the footprint crusoe saw. then she fluffles her tail and mew and scratch and win t attend. but binkie will play whatever i choose and he be my true first friend. 
pussy will rub my knee with her head pretend she love me hard. but the very minute i go to my bed pussy run out in the yard and there she stay till the morning light. so i know it be only pretend. but binkie_ he snore at my foot all night and he be my first friend. 
the cat that walk by himself. 
there be never a queen like balkis from here to the wide world s end. but balkis talk to a butterfly a you would talk to a friend. 
there be never a king like solomon not since the world begin. but solomon talk to a butterfly a a man would talk to a man. 
she be queen of sabæa and he be asia s lord but they both of em talk to butterfly when they take their walk abroad. 
the butterfly that stamp. 
the look glass. 
a country dance. 
queen be be harry s daughter. stand forward partner all. she dance king philip down a down and leave her shoe to show twas true. the very tune i m play you. in norgem at brickwall. 
the queen be in her chamber and she be middle old her petticoat be satin and her stomacher be gold. backwards and forward and sideways do she pas make up her mind to face the cruel look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a comely or a kindly or a young a what she be. 
queen be be harry s daughter. now hand your partner all. the queen be in her chamber a comb of her hair. there come queen mary s spirit and it stand behind her chair. sing backwards and forward and sideways may you pas but i will stand behind you till you face the look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a lovely or unlucky or a lonely a i be. 
queen be be harry s daughter. now turn your partner all. the queen be in her chamber a weep very sore. there come lord leicester s spirit and it scratch upon the door sing backwards and forward and sideways may you pas but i will walk beside you till you face the look glass. the cruel look glass that will never show a lass a hard and unforgiving or a wicked a you be. 
queen be be harry s daughter. now kiss your partner all. 
the queen be in her chamber. her sin be on her head. she look the spirit up and down and statelily she say. backwards and forward and sideways though i ve be yet i be harry s daughter and i be england s queen. and she face the look glass. and whatever else there be. and she saw her day be over and she saw her beauty pas in the cruel look glass that can always hurt a lass more hard than any ghost there be or any man there be. 
the queen s men. 
valour and innocence have latterly go hence to certain death by certain shame attend. envy ah. even to tear. the fortune of their year which though so few yet so divinely end. 
scarce have they lift up life s full and fiery cup than they have set it down untouched before them. before their day arise they beckon it to close close in confusion and destruction o er them. 
they do not stay to ask what prize should crown their task well sure that prize be such a no man strive for. but pass into eclipse her kiss upon their lip even belphoebe s whom they give their life for. 
the city of sleep. 
over the edge of the purple down where the single lamplight gleam. know ye the road to the merciful town that be hard by the sea of dream where the poor may lay their wrong away and the sick may forget to weep. but we pity u. oh pity u. we wakeful. ah pity u. we must go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
weary they turn from the scroll and crown fetter and prayer and plough they that go up to the merciful town for her gate be close now. it be their right in the bath of night body and soul to steep but we pity u. ah pity u. we wakeful. oh pity u. we must go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
over the edge of the purple down ere the tender dream begin look we may look at the merciful town but we may not enter in. outcast all from her guard wall back to our watch we creep. we pity u. ah pity u. we wakeful. oh pity u. we that go back with policeman day back from the city of sleep. 
the widower. 
for a season there must be pain for a little little space i shall lose the sight of her face take back the old life again while she be at rest in her place. 
for a season this pain must endure for a little little while i shall sigh more often than smile till time shall work me a cure and the pitiful day beguile. 
for that season we must be apart for a little length of year till my life s last hour near and above the beat of my heart i hear her voice in my ear. 
but i shall not understand be set on some late love shall not know her for whom i strive till she reach me forth her hand say who but i have the right. and out of a trouble night shall draw me safe to the land. 
the prayer of miriam cohen. 
from the wheel and the drift of thing deliver u good lord and we will face the wrath of king the faggot and the sword. 
lay not thy work before our eye nor vex u with thy war l we should feel the strain sky o ertrod by trample star. 
hold u secure behind the gate of save flesh and bone l we should dream what dream await the soul escape alone. 
thy path thy purpose conceal from our beleaguer realm l any shatter whisper steal upon u and o erwhelm. 
a veil twixt u and thee good lord a veil twixt u and thee l we should hear too clear too clear and unto madness see. 
the song of the little hunter. 
ere mor the peacock flutter ere the monkey people cry ere chil the kite swoop down a furlong sheer through the jungle very softly flit a shadow and a sigh he be fear o little hunter he be fear. very softly down the glade run a wait watch shade and the whisper spread and widen far and near. and the sweat be on thy brow for he pass even now he be fear o little hunter he be fear. 
ere the moon ha climb the mountain ere the rock be rib with light when the downward dip trail be dank and drear. 
come a breathe hard behind thee snuffle snuffle through the night it be fear o little hunter it be fear. on thy knee and draw the bow. bid the shrill arrow go. in the empty mock thicket plunge the spear. but thy hand be loose and weak and the blood ha leave thy cheek it be fear o little hunter it be fear. 
when the heat cloud suck the tempest when the sliver pine tree fall when the blind blare rain squall lash and veer through the war gong of the thunder ring a voice more loud than all it be fear o little hunter it be fear. now the spate be bank and deep. now the footle boulder leap now the lightning show each little leaf rib clear but thy throat be shut and dry and thy heart against thy side hammer. fear o little hunter this be fear. 
gow s watch. 
act ii. scene. 
the pavilion in the garden. enter ferdinand and the king. 
ferdinand. your tiercel s too long at hack. sir. he s no eyas but a passage hawk that foot ere we catch him. dangerously free o the air. faith be he mine. a mine s the glove he bind to for his tire. i d fly him with a make hawk. he s in yarak plume to the very point. so man so weather. give him the firmament god make him for. and what shall take the air of him. 
the king. a young wing yet. bold overbold on the perch but think you ferdinand he can endure the tall sky yonder. cozen advantage out of the teeth of the hurricane. choose his own mate against the lammer geier. ride out a night long tempest hold his pitch between the lightning and the cloud it leap from never too press to kill. 
ferdinand. i ll answer for him. bat all parable i know the prince. there s a bleak devil in the young my lord. god put it there to save em from their elder and break their father s heart but bear them scatheless through mire and thorn and blood if need be. think what our prime saw. such glory such achievement a now our child wonder at examine themselves to see if they shall hardly equal. but what care we while we work the wonder. nothing. the rampant deed content. 
the king. little enough god know. but afterwards. after there come the reckon. i would save him that. 
ferdinand. save him dry scar that ache of winter night. wear out self pity and a much of knowledge a make old men fear judgment. then loose him loose him a god s name loose him to adventure early. and trust some random pike or half back horse besides what s catch in italy to save him. 
the king. i know. i know. and yet. what stir in the garden. 
enter gow and a gardener bear the prince s body. 
ferdinand. god give me patience. gow and a gardener bear some load along in the dusk to the dunghill. nay a dead branch but a i say the prince. 
the king. they ve set it down. strange that they work so late. 
gow. set down the body. heark you unsanctified fool while i set out our story. we find it this side the north park wall which it have climb to pluck nectarine from the alley. heark again. there be a nectarine in it hand when we find it and the naughty brick that slip from the cop beneath it foot and so cause it death lie now under the wall for the king to see. 
the king. above. the king to see. why should he. who s the man. 
gow. that be your tale. swerve from it by so much a the breadth of my dagger and here s your instant reward. you hear not saw not and by the horn of ninefold cuckold jupiter you think not nor dream not anything more or other. 
the king. ninefold cuckold jupiter. that s a rare oath. shall we look close. 
ferdinand. not yet my lord. i cannot hear him breathe. 
gardener. the north park wall. it be so. pluck nectarine. it shall be. but how shall i say if any ask why our lady the queen. 
gow. stab him. thus. hie after the prince and tell him y be the first fruit of his nectarine tree. bleed there behind the laurel. 
the king. why do gow buffet the clown. what say he. i ll go look. 
ferdinand. above. save yourself. it be the king. 
enter the king and ferdinand to gow. 
gow. god save you. this be the prince. 
the king. the prince. not a dead branch. uncover the face. my flesh and blood. my son. my son. my son. 
ferdinand. to gow. i have fear something of this. and that fool yonder. 
gow. dead or a good. he cannot speak. 
ferdinand. good so. 
the king. loose to adventure early. tell the tale. 
gow. sad truth alack. i come upon him not a half hour since fall from the north park wall over against the deerpark side dead dead. a nectarine in his hand that the dear lad must have climb for and pluck the very instant look you that a brick slip on the cop. ti there now. so i lift him but his neck be a you see and already cold. 
the king. oh very cold. but why should he have trouble to climb. he be free of all the fruit in my garden god know. what gow. 
gow. surely god know. 
the king. a lad s trick. but i love him the good for it. true he s past love. and now we must tell our queen. what a coil at the day s end. she ll grieve for him. not a i shall. ferdinand but a youth for youth. they be much of the same age. playmate for playmate. see he wear her colour. that be the knot she give him last last. oh god. when be yesterday. 
ferdinand. come in. come in my lord. there s a dew fall. 
the king. he ll take no harm of it. i ll follow presently. he s all his mother s now and none of mine her very face on the bride pillow. yet i trick her. but that be late and she never guess. i do not think he sin much he s too young much the same age a my queen. god must not judge him too hardly for such slip a youth may fall in. but i ll entreat that throne. 
pray by the body. 
gow. the heaven hold up still. earth open not and this dew s mere water. what shall a man think of it all. to gardener. not dead yet sirrah. i bid you follow the prince. despatch. 
gardener. some kind soul pluck out the dagger. why do you slay me. i d do no wrong. i d ha keep it secret till my die day. but not now not now. i m die. the prince fell from the queen s chamber window. i saw it in the nut alley. he be. 
ferdinand. but what make you in the nut alley at that hour. 
gardener. no wrong. no more than another man s wife. jocasta of the still room. she d kiss me good night too. but that s over with the rest. i ve stumble on the prince s beastly love and i pay for all. let me pas. 
gow. count it your fortune honest man. you would have reveal it to your woman at the next meet. you fleshmongers be all one feather. pluck out the dagger. go in peace and lay your death to fortune s door. he s speed thank fortune. 
ferdinand. who know not fortune glut on easy throne steal from feast a rare to coney catch privily in the hedgerow for a clown. with that same cruel lustful hand and eye those nail and wedge that one hammer and lead and the very gerb of long store lightning loose. yesterday gainst some king. 
the king. i have pursue with prayer where my heart warn me my soul shall overtake. 
enter the queen. 
the king. look not. wait till i tell you dear. air. loose to adventure early. i go late. dy. 
gow. so. god hath cut off the prince in his pleasure. gow to save the king hath silence one poor fool who know how it befall and now the king s dead need only that the queen should kill gow and all s safe for her this side o the judgment. senor ferdinand the wind s easterly. i m for the road. 
ferdinand. my horse be at the gate. god speed you. whither. 
gow. to the duke if the queen doe not lay hand on me before. however it go i charge you bear witness senor ferdinand i serve the old king faithfully. to the death senor ferdinand to the death. 
the wish cap. 
life s all get and give. i ve only myself to give. what shall i do for a live. i ve only one life to live. end it. i ll not find another. spend it. but how shall i best. sure the wise plan be to live like a man and luck may look after the rest. largesse. largesse fortune. give or hold at your will. if i ve no care for fortune fortune must follow me still. 
bad luck she be never a lady but the common wench on the street shuffle shabby and shady shameless to pas or meet. walk with her once it s a weakness. talk to her twice it s a crime. thrust her away when she give you good day and the besom win t board you next time. largesse. largesse fortune. what be your ladyship s mood. if i ve no care for fortune my fortune be bind to be good. 
good luck she be never a lady but the cursed quean alive. tricksey wince and jady kittle to lead or drive. greet her she s hail a strange. meet her she s busk to leave. let her alone for a shrew to the bone and the hussy come pluck your sleeve. largesse. largesse fortune. i ll neither follow nor flee. if i don t run after fortune fortune must run after me. 
by the hoof of the wild goat. 
by the hoof of the wild goat uptossed from the cliff where she lay in the sun fell the stone to the tarn where the daylight be lose so she fell from the light of the sun and alone. 
now the fall be ordain from the first with the goat and the cliff and the tarn but the stone know only her life be accurse a she sink from the light of the sun and alone. 
oh thou who ha build the world oh thou who ha light the sun oh thou who ha darken the tarn judge thou the sin of the stone that be hurl by the goat from the light of the sun a she sink in the mire of the tarn even now even now even now. 
song of the red war boat. 
a. d. 
shove off from the wharf edge. steady. watch for a smooth. give way. if she feel the lop already she ll stand on her head in the bay. it s ebb it s dusk it s blow. the shoal be a mile of white. but. snatch her along. we re go to find our master to night. 
for we hold that in all disaster of shipwreck storm or sword a man must stand by his master when once he ha pledge his word. 
rag sea have we row in but we seldom saw them thus. our master be angry with odin odin be angry with u. heavy odds have we take but never before such odds. the god know they be forsake we must risk the wrath of the god. 
over the crest she fly from into it hollow she drop cringe and clear her eye from the wind tear breaker top ere out on the shriek shoulder of a hill high surge she drive. meet her. meet her and hold her. pull for your scoundrel life. 
the thunder bellow and clamour the harm that they mean to do. there go thor s own hammer crack the dark in two. close. but the blow ha miss her here come the wind of the blow. row or the squall ll twist her broadside on to it. row. 
heark ee thor of the thunder. we be not here for a jest for wager warfare or plunder or to put your power to test. this work be none of our wish we would house at home if we might but our master be wreck out fish. we go to find him to night. 
for we hold that in all disaster a the god themselves have say a man must stand by his master till one of the two be dead. 
that be our way of think now you can do a you will while we try to save her from sink and hold her head to it still. bale her and keep her move or she ll break her back in the trough. who say the weather s improve or the swell be take off. 
sodden and chafe and ache go in the loin and knee no matter the day be break and there s far le weight to the sea. up mast and finish bale in oar and out with the mead the rest will be two reef sail. that be a night indeed. 
but we hold that in all disaster. and faith we have find it true. if only you stand by your master the god will stand by you. 
morning song in the jungle. 
one moment past our body cast no shadow on the plain. now clear and black they stride our track and we run home again. in morning hush each rock and bush stand hard and high and raw. then give the call. good rest to all that keep the jungle law. 
now horn and pelt our people melt in covert to abide. now crouch and still to cave and hill our jungle baron glide. now stark and plain man s ox strain that draw the new yoke plough. now strip and dread the dawn be red above the light talao. 
ho. get to lair. the sun s aflare behind the breathe grass. and creak through the young bamboo the warn whisper pas. by day make strange the wood we range with blink eye we scan. while down the sky the wild duck cry. the day the day to man. 
the dew be dry that drench our hide or wash about our way. and where we drink the puddle bank be crisp into clay. the traitor dark give up each mark of stretch or hood claw. then hear the call. good rest to all that keep the jungle law. 
blue rose. 
rose red and rose white pluck i for my love s delight. she would none of all my posy bid me gather her blue rose. 
half the world i wander through seek where such flower grow. half the world unto my quest answer me with laugh and jest. 
home i come at wintertide but my silly love have die seek with her late breath rose from the arm of death. 
it may be beyond the grave she shall find what she would have. mine be but an idle quest rose white and red be best. 
a ripple song. 
once a ripple come to land in the golden sunset burn lap against a maiden s hand by the ford return. 
dainty foot and gentle breast here across be glad and rest. maiden wait the ripple saith. wait awhile for i be death. 
where my lover call i go shame it be to treat him coldly twas a fish that circle so turn over boldly. 
dainty foot and tender heart wait the load ferry cart. wait ah wait. the ripple saith. maiden wait for i be death. 
when my lover call i haste dame disdain be never wed. ripple ripple round her waist clear the current eddy. 
foolish heart and faithful hand little foot that touch no land. far away the ripple speed ripple ripple run red. 
butterfly. 
eye aloft over dangerous place the child follow the butterfly and in the sweat of their upturned face slash with a net at the empty sky. 
so it go they fall amid bramble and sting their toe on the nettle top till after a thousand scratch and scramble they wipe their brow and the hunt stop. 
then to quiet them come their father and still the riot of pain and grief say little one go and gather out of my garden a cabbage leaf. 
you will find on it whorl and clot of dull grey egg that properly feed turn by way of the worm to lot of glorious butterfly raise from the dead. 
heaven be beautiful earth be ugly the three dimension preacher saith so we must not look where the snail and the slug lie for psyche s birth. and that be our death. 
my lady s law. 
the law whereby my lady move be never law to me but ti enough that she approve whatever law it be. 
for in that law and by that law my constant course i ll steer. not that i heed or deem it dread but that she hold it dear. 
tho asia send for my content her rich argosy those would i spurn and bid return if that should give her ease. 
with equal heart i d watch depart each spicèd sail from sight sans bitterness desire le great gear than her delight. 
though king make swift with many a gift my prove sword to hire i would not go nor serve em so except at her desire. 
with even mind i d put behind adventure and acclaim and clean give o er esteem more her favour than my fame. 
yet such be i yea such be i sore bond and free free the law that sway my lady s way be mystery to me. 
the nurse sister. 
maternity hospital. 
our sister sayeth such and such. and we must bow to her behest. our sister toileth overmuch our little maid that hath no breast. 
a field untilled a web unwove a flower withhold from sun or bee an alien in the court of love and teacher unto such a we. 
we love her but we laugh the while we laugh but sob be mix with laughter. our sister hath no time to smile she know not what must follow after. 
wind of the south arise and blow from bed of spice thy lock shake free. breathe on her heart that she may know breathe on her eye that she may see. 
ala. we vex her with our mirth and maze her with most tender scorn who stand beside the gate of birth herself a child a child unborn. 
our sister sayeth such and such and we must bow to her behest. our sister toileth overmuch our little maid that hath no breast. 
the love song of har dyal. 
alone upon the housetop to the north i turn and watch the lightning in the sky the glamour of thy footstep in the north. come back to me beloved or i die. 
below my foot the still bazar be lay far far below the weary camel lie the camel and the captive of thy raid. come back to me beloved or i die. 
my father s wife be old and harsh with year and drudge of all my father s house be i my bread be sorrow and my drink be tear. come back to me. beloved or i die. 
a dedication. 
and they be strong hand than mine that digged the ruby from the earth more cunning brain that make it worth the large desire of a king and stout heart that through the brine go down the perfect pearl to bring. 
lo i have work in common clay rude figure of a rough hew race since pearl strew not the market place in this my town of banishment where with the shift dust i play and eat the bread of discontent. 
yet be there life in that i make. o thou who knowest turn and see a thou hast power over me so have i power over these because i work them for thy sake and breathe in them mine agony. 
small mirth be in the make now i lift the cloth that cloak the clay and weary at thy foot i lay my ware ere i go forth to sell. the long bazar will praise but thou heart of my heart have i do well. 
mother o mine. 
if i be hang on the high hill mother o mine o mother o mine. i know whose love would follow me still mother o mine o mother o mine. 
if i be drown in the deep sea mother o mine o mother o mine. i know whose tear would come down to me mother o mine o mother o mine. 
if i be damn of body and soul i know whose prayer would make me whole mother o mine o mother o mine. 
the only son. 
she drop the bar she shoot the bolt she feed the fire anew for she hear a whimper under the sill and a great grey paw come through. the fresh flame comfort the hut and shine on the roof beam and the only son lay down again and dream that he dream a dream. the last ash fell from the wither log with the click of a fall spark and the only son wake up again and call across the dark. now be i bear of womankind and lay in a mother s breast. for i have dream of a shaggy hide whereon i go to rest. and be i bear of womankind and lay on a father s arm. for i have dream of clash teeth that guard me from harm. and be i bear an only son and do i play alone. for i have dream of comrade twain that bite me to the bone. and do i break the barley cake and steep it in the tyre. for i have dream of a youngling kid new rive from the byre. for i have dream of a midnight sky and a midnight call to blood and red mouth shadow race by that thrust me from my food. ti an hour yet and an hour yet to the rise of the moon but i can see the black roof tree a plain a it be noon. ti a league and a league to the lena fall where the troop blackbuck go. but i can hear the little fawn that bleat behind the doe. ti a league and a league to the lena fall where the crop and the upland meet but i can smell the wet dawn wind that wake the sprout wheat. unbar the door i may not bide but i must out and see if those be wolf that wait outside or my own kin to me. 
* * * * *. 
she loose the bar she slide the bolt she open the door anon and a grey bitch wolf come out of the dark and fawn on the only son. 
mowgli s song against people. 
i will let loose against you the fleet foot vine i will call in the jungle to stamp out your line. the roof shall fade before it the house beam shall fall and the karela_ the bitter karela_ shall cover it all. 
in the gate of these your council my people shall sing in the door of these your garner the bat folk shall cling. and the snake shall be your watchman by a hearthstone unswept. for the karela_ the bitter karela_ shall fruit where ye sleep. 
ye shall not see my striker. ye shall hear them and guess. by night before the moon rise i will send for my ce and the wolf shall be your herdsman by a landmark remove for the karela_ the bitter karela_ shall seed where ye love. 
i will reap your field before you at the hand of a host. ye shall glean behind my reaper for the bread that be lose. and the deer shall be your ox on a headland untilled for the karela_ the bitter karela_ shall leaf where ye build. 
i have untie against you the club foot vine i have send in the jungle to swamp out your line. the tree the tree be on you. the house beam shall fall and the karela_ the bitter karela_ shall cover you all. 
romulus and remus. 
oh little do the wolf child care when first he plan his home what city should arise and bear the weight and state of rome. 
a shiftless westward wander tramp check by the tiber flood he rear a wall around his camp of uninspired mud. 
but when his brother leap the wall and mock it height and make he guess the future of it all and slew him for it sake. 
swift be the blow swift a the think which show him in that hour how unbelief may bring to naught the early step of power. 
foresee time s imperilled hope of glory grace and love all singer cæsars artist pope would fail if remus thrive. 
he send his brother to the god and when the fit be o er go on collect turf and clod to build the wall once more. 
chapter heading. 
the jungle book. 
now chil the kite bring home the night that mang the bat set free the herd be shut in byre and hut for loose till dawn be we. this be the hour of pride and power talon and tush and claw. oh hear the call. good hunt all that keep the jungle law. 
mowgli s brother. 
* * * * *. 
his spot be the joy of the leopard. his horn be the buffalo s pride. be clean for the strength of the hunter be know by the gloss of his hide. if ye find that the bullock can toss you or the heavy browed sambhur can gore. ye need not stop work to inform u. we know it ten season before. oppress not the cub of the strange but hail them a sister and brother for though they be little and fubsy it may be the bear be their mother. there be none like to me. say the cub in the pride of his early kill. but the jungle be large and the cub he be small. let him think and be still. 
kaa s hunt. 
* * * * *. 
the stream be shrink the pool be dry and we be comrade thou and i. with fevered jowl and dusty flank each jostle each along the bank. and by one drouthy fear make still forego think of quest or kill. now neath his dam the fawn may see the lean pack wolf a cow a he and the tall buck unflinching note the fang that tear his father s throat. the pool be shrink the stream be dry and we be playmate thou and i till yonder cloud good hunt. loose the rain that break our water truce. 
how fear come. 
* * * * *. 
what of the hunt hunter bold. brother the watch be long and cold. what of the quarry ye go to kill. brother he crop in the jungle still. where be the power that make your pride. brother it ebb from my flank and side. where be the haste that ye hurry by. brother i go to my lair to die. 
tiger tiger. 
* * * * *. 
veil them cover them wall them round blossom and creeper and weed let u forget the sight and the sound the smell and the touch of the breed. 
fat black ash by the altar stone. here be the white foot rain and the doe bring forth in the field unsown and none shall affright them again. and the blind wall crumble unknown o erthrown and none shall inhabit again. 
let in the jungle. 
* * * * *. 
these be the four that be never content that have never be fill since the dew begin jacala s mouth and the glut of the kite and the hand of the ape and the eye of man. 
the king s ankus. 
* * * * *. 
for our white and our excellent night for the night of swift run fair range far see good hunt sure cunning. for the smell of the dawn untainted ere dew ha depart. for the rush through the mist and the quarry blind start. for the cry of our mate when the sambhur ha wheel and be stand at bay. for the risk and the riot of night. for the sleep at the lair mouth by day. it be meet and we go to the fight. bay. o bay. 
red dog. 
* * * * *. 
man go to man. cry the challenge through the jungle. he that be our brother go away. hear now and judge o ye people of the jungle answer who shall turn him who shall stay. 
man go to man. he be weep in the jungle. he that be our brother sorrow sore. man go to man. oh we love him in the jungle. to the man trail where we may not follow more. 
the spring run. 
* * * * *. 
at the hole where he go in red eye call to wrinkle skin. hear what little red eye saith. nag come up and dance with death. 
eye to eye and head to head. keep the measure nag. this shall end when one be dead. at thy pleasure nag. 
turn for turn and twist for twist. run and hide thee nag. hah. the hood death ha miss. woe betide thee nag. 
rikki tikki tavi. 
* * * * *. 
oh. hush thee my baby the night be behind u and black be the water that sparkle so green. the moon o er the comber look downward to find u at rest in the hollow that rustle between. where billow meet billow there soft be thy pillow. ah weary wee flipperling curl at thy ease. the storm shall not wake thee nor shark overtake thee asleep in the arm of the slow swing sea. 
the white seal. 
* * * * *. 
you mustn t swim till you re six week old or your head will be sink by your heel. and summer gale and killer whale be bad for baby seal. be bad for baby seal dear rat a bad a bad can be. but splash and grow strong and you can t be wrong child of the open sea. 
the white seal. 
* * * * *. 
i will remember what i be i be sick of rope and chain. i will remember my old strength and all my forest affair. i will not sell my back to man for a bundle of sugar cane. i will go out to my own kind and the wood folk in their lair. 
i will go out until the day until the morning break out to the wind untainted kiss the water clean caress. i will forget my ankle ring and snap my picket stake. i will revisit my lose love and playmate master le. 
toomai of the elephant. 
* * * * *. 
the people of the eastern ice they be melt like the snow they beg for coffee and sugar. they go where the white men go. the people of the western ice they learn to steal and fight. they sell their fur to the trade post. they sell their soul to the white. the people of the southern ice they trade with the whaler s crew. their woman have many ribbon but their tent be tear and few. but the people of the elder ice beyond the white man s ken their spear be make of the narwhal horn and they be the last of the men. 
quiquern. 
* * * * *. 
when ye say to tabaqui my brother. when ye call the hyena to meat ye may cry the full truce with jacala the belly that run on four foot. 
the undertaker. 
* * * * *. 
the night we felt the earth would move we steal and pluck him by the hand because we love him with the love that know but cannot understand. 
and when the roar hillside break and all our world fell down in rain we save him we the little folk. but lo. he doe not come again. 
mourn now we save him for the sake of such poor love a wild one may. mourn ye. our brother will not wake and his own kind drive u away. 
the miracle of purun bhagat. 
the egg shell. 
the wind take off with the sunset the fog come up with the tide when the witch of the north take an egg shell with a little blue devil inside. sink she say or swim she say it s all you will get from me. and that be the finish of him. she say. and the egg shell go to sea. 
the wind fell dead with the midnight the fog shut down like a sheet when the witch of the north hear the egg shell feel by hand for a fleet. get. she say or you re go she say but the little blue devil say no. the sight be just come on he say and he let the whitehead go. 
the wind get up with the morning and the fog blow off with the rain when the witch of the north saw the egg shell and the little blue devil again. do you swim. she say. do you sink. she say and the little blue devil reply. for myself i swim but i think he say there s somebody sink outside. 
the king s task. 
after the sack of the city when rome be sink to a name in the year that the light be darken or ever st. wilfrid come low on the border of britain. the ancient poet sing. between the cliff and the forest there rule a saxon king. stubborn all be his people from cottar to overlord not to be cow by the cudgel scarce to be school by the sword. quick to turn at their pleasure cruel to cross in their mood and set on path of their choose a the hog of andred s wood. law they make in the witan the law of flay and fine common loppage and pannage the theft and the track of kine statute of tun and market for the fish and the malt and the meal the tax on the bramber packhorse and the tax on the hastings keel. over the graf of the druid and under the wreck of rome rudely but surely they bed the plinth of the day to come. behind the foot of the legion and before the norseman s ire rudely but greatly beget they the frame of state and shire. rudely but deeply they labour and their labour stand till now if we trace on our ancient headland the twist of their eight ox plough. there come a king from hamtun by bosenham he come. he fill use with slaughter and lewes he give to flame. he smite while they sit in the witan sudden he smite and sore that his fleet be gather at selsea ere they muster at cymen s ore. blithe go the saxon to battle by down and wood and mere but thrice the acorn ripen ere the western mark be clear. thrice be the beechmast gather and the beltane fire burn thrice and the beef be salt thrice ere the host return. they drive that king from hamtun by bosenham o erthrown out of rugnor to wilton they make his land their own. camp they build at gilling at base and alresford but wrath abide in the saxon from cottar to overlord. wrath at the weary war game at the foe that snap and run wolf wise feign and fly and wolf wise snatch his man. wrath for their spear unready their levy new to the blade shame for the helpless siege and the scornful ambuscade. at hearth and tavern and market wherever the tale be tell shame and wrath have the saxon because of their boast of old. and some would drink and deny it and some would pray and atone. but the most part after their anger avouch that the sin be their own. wherefore gird together up to the witan they come and a they have shoulder their buckler so do they shoulder their blame. for that be the wont of the saxon. the ancient poet sing. and first they speak in the witan and then they speak to the king. edward king of the saxon thou knowest from sire to son one be the king and his people in gain and ungain one. count we the gain together. with doubt and spread dismay we have break a foolish people but after many day. count we the loss together. warlock hamper our arm we be trick a by magic we be turn a by charm. we go down to the battle and the road be plain to keep but our angry eye be holden and we strike a they strike in sleep men new shake from slumber sweat with eye a stare little blow uncertain deal on the useless air. also a vision betray u and a lie tale make bold that we look to hold what we have not and to have what we do not hold. that a shield should give u shelter that a sword should give u power a shield snatch up at a venture and a hilt scarce handle an hour. that be rich in the open we should be strong in the close and the god would sell u a cunning for the day that we meet our foe. this be the work of wizard but not with our foe they bide in our own camp we take them and their name be sloth and pride. our pride be before the battle. our sloth ere we lift spear but hide in the heart of the people a the fever hide in the mere wait only the war game the heat of the strife to rise a the ague fume round oxeney when the rot reed bed dry. but now we be purge of that fever cleanse by the let of blood something lean of body something keen of mood. and the men new free from the levy return to the field again match a hundred battle cottar and lord and thane. and they talk aloud in the temple where the ancient wargods be. they thumb and mock and belittle the holy harness of war. they jest at the sacred chariot the robe and the gild staff. these thing fill them with laughter they lean on their spear and laugh. the men grow old in the war game hither and thither they range and scorn and laughter together be sire and dam of change. and change may be good or evil but we know not what it will bring therefore our king must teach u. that be thy task o king. 
poseidon s law. 
when the robust and brass bind man commission first for sea his fragile raft poseidon laugh and mariner say he behold a law immutable i lay on thee and thine that never shall ye act or tell a falsehood at my shrine. 
let zeus adjudge your landward kin whose votive meal and salt at easy cheat altar win oblivion for the fault but you the unhoodwinked wave shall test the immediate gulf condemn except ye owe the fate a jest be slow to jest with them. 
ye shall not clear by greekly speech nor cozen from your path the twinkle shoal the leeward beach and hadria s white lipped wrath. nor tempt with paint cloth for wood my fraud avenge host. nor make at all or all make good your bulwark and your boast. 
now and henceforward serve unshod through wet and wakeful shift a present and oppressive god but take to aid my gift the wide and windward open eye the large and lavish hand the soul that cannot tell a lie except upon the land. 
in dromond and in catafract wet wakeful windward eye he keep poseidon s law intact. his ship and freight beside. but once discharge the dromond s hold the bireme beach once more splendaciously mendacious roll the brass bind man ashore. 
the thranite now and thalamite be pressure low and high and where three hundred blade bite white the twin propeller ply. the god that hail the keel that sail be change beyond recall but the robust and brass bind man he be not change at all. 
from punt return from phormio s fleet from javan and gadire he strongly occupy the seat about the tavern fire and moist with much falernian or smoke massilian juice revenge there the brass bind man his long enforce truce. 
a truthful song. 
the bricklayer. 
i tell this tale which be strictly true just by way of convince you how very little since thing mere make thing have alter in the build trade. 
a year ago come the middle of march we be build flat near the marble arch when a thin young man with coal black hair come up to watch u work there. 
now there wasn t a trick in brick or stone that this young man hadn t see or know. nor there wasn t a tool from trowel to maul but this young man could use em all. 
then up and speak the plumbyers bold which be lay the pipe for the hot and cold. since you with u have make so free will you kindly say what your name might be. 
the young man kindly answer them. it might be lot or methusalem or it might be moses. a man i hate. whereas it be pharaoh surnamed the great. 
your glaze be new and your plumb s strange but otherwise i perceive no change and in le than a month if you do a i bid i d learn you to build me a pyramid. 
the sailor. 
i tell this tale which be strict true just by way of convince you how very little since thing be make thing have alter in the shipwright s trade. 
in blackwall basin yesterday a china barque re fit lay when a fat old man with snow white hair come up to watch u work there. 
now there wasn t a knot which the rigger know but the old man make it and good too. nor there wasn t a sheet or a lift or a brace. but the old man know it lead and place. 
then up and speak the caulkyers bold which be pack the pump in the afterhold. since you with u have make so free will you kindly tell what your name might be. 
the old man kindly answer them. it might be japheth it might be shem or it might be ham. though his skin be dark. whereas it be noah command the ark. 
your wheel be new and your pump be strange but otherwise i perceive no change and in le than a week if she do not grind i d sail this hooker the wide world round. 
both. 
we tell these tale which be strict true just by way of convince you how very little since thing be make anything alter in any one s trade. 
a smuggler s song. 
if you wake at midnight and hear a horse s foot don t go draw back the blind or look in the street. them that ask no question isn t tell a lie watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. five and twenty pony trot through the dark brandy for the parson baccy for the clerk. lace for a lady letter for a spy and watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. 
run round the woodlump if you chance to find little barrel rope and tar all full of brandy wine don t you shout to come and look nor use em for your play. put the brishwood back again and they ll be go next day. 
if you see the stable door set open wide. if you see a tire horse lie down inside. if your mother mend a coat cut about and tear. if the line s wet and warm don t you ask no more. 
if you meet king george s men dress in blue and red you be careful what you say and mindful what be say. if they call you pretty maid and chuck you neath the chin. don t you tell where no one be nor yet where no one s be. 
knock and footstep round the house whistle after dark you ve no call for run out till the house dog bark. trusty s here and pinchers here and see how dumb they lie they don t fret to follow when the gentleman go by. 
if you do a you ve be tell likely there s a chance you ll be give a dainty doll all the way from france with a cap of valenciennes and a velvet hood a present from the gentleman along o be good. five and twenty pony trot through the dark brandy for the parson baccy for the clerk. them that ask no question isn t tell a lie watch the wall my darling while the gentleman go by. 
king henry vii. and the shipwright. 
a. d. 
harry our king in england from london town be go and comen to hamull on the hoke in the countie of suthampton. for there lay the mary of the tower_ his ship of war so strong and he would discover certaynely if his shipwright do him wrong. 
he tell not none of his set forth nor yet where he would go. but only my lord of arundel. and meanly do he show in an old jerkin and patch hose that no man might him mark. with his frieze hood and cloak above he look like any clerk. 
he be at hamull on the hoke about the hour of the tide. and saw the mary hale into dock the winter to abide with all her tackle and habiliment which be the king his own. but then run on his false shipwright and strip her to the bone. 
they heave the main mast overboard that be of a trusty tree and they write down it be spend and lose by force of weather at sea. but they sawen it into plank and strake a far a it might go to maken bed for their own wife and little child also. 
there be a knave call slingawai he crope beneath the deck. cry. good felawes come and see. the ship be nigh a wreck. for the storm that take our tall main mast it blow so fierce and fell alack. it hath take the kettle and pan and this brass pott a well. 
with that he set the pott on his head and hie him up the hatch while all the shipwright run below to find what they might snatch. all except bob brygandyne and he be a yeoman good he catch slingawai round the waist and throw him on to the mud. 
i have take plank and rope and nail without the king his leave after the custom of portesmouth but i will not suffer a thief. nay never lift up thy hand at me. there s no clean hand in the trade steal in measure quo brygandyne. there s measure in all thing make. 
gramercy yeoman. say our king. thy council liketh me. and he pull a whistle out of his neck and whistle whistle three. then come my lord of arundel prick across the down and behind him the mayor and burgess of merry suthampton town. 
they draw the naughty shipwright up with the kettle in their hand and bind them round the forecastle to wait the king s command. but since ye have make your bed say the king ye need must lie thereon. for the sake of your wife and little one felawes get you go. 
when they have beat slingawai out of his own lip our king appoint brygandyne to be clerk of all his ship. nay never lift up thy hand to me there s no clean hand in the trade. but steal in measure say harry our king. there s measure in all thing make. 
god speed the mary of the tower the sovereign and grace dieu the sweepstakes and the mary fortune and the henry of bristol too. all tall ship that sail on the sea or in our harbour stand that they may keep measure with harry our king and peace in engeland. 
the wet litany. 
when the water s countenance blurrs twixt glance and second glance. when our tattered smoke forerun. ashen neath a silver sun. when the curtain of the haze shut upon our helpless way hear the channel fleet at sea. libera no domine. 
when the engine bat pulse scarcely thrill the nose hull. when the wash along the side sound a sudden magnify. when the intolerable blast mark each blindfold minute pass. 
when the fog buoy s squattering flight guide u through the haggard night. when the warn bugle blow. when the letter doorway close. when our brittle township press impotent on emptiness. 
when the unseen leadsmen lean question a deep unseen. when their lessen count they tell to a bridge invisible. when the hide and perilous cliff return our cry to u. 
when the treble thickness spread swallow up our next ahead. when her siren s frighten whine show her sheer out of line. when her passage undiscerned we must turn where she ha turn hear the channel fleet at sea. libera no domine. 
the ballad of minepit shaw. 
about the time that tavern shut and men can buy no beer two lad go up to the keeper hut to steal lord pelham s deer. 
night and the liquor be in their head they laugh and talk no bound till they wake the keeper on their bed and the keeper loose the hound. 
they have kill a hart they have kill a hind ready to carry away when they hear a whimper down the wind and they hear a bloodhound bay. 
they take and run across the fern their crossbow in their hand till they meet a man with a green lantern that call and bid em stand. 
what be ye do o flesh and blood and what s your foolish will that you must break into minepit wood and wake the folk of the hill. 
oh we ve break into lord pelham s park and kill lord pelham s deer and if ever you hear a little dog bark you ll know why we come here. 
we ask you let u go our way a fast a we can flee for if ever you hear a bloodhound bay you ll know how press we be. 
oh lay your crossbow on the bank and drop the knife from your hand and though the hound be at your flank i ll save you where you stand. 
they lay their crossbow on the bank they throw their knife in the wood and the grind before them open and sink and save em where they stand. 
oh what s the roar in our ear that strike u well nigh dumb. oh that be just how thing appear accord a they come. 
what be the star before our eye that strike u well nigh blind. oh that be just how thing arise accord a you find. 
and why s our bed so hard to the bone except where it s cold. oh that s because it be precious stone except where ti gold. 
think it over a you stand. for i tell you without fail if you haven t get into fairyland you re not in lewes gaol. 
all night long they think of it and come the dawn they saw they d tumble into a great old pit at the bottom of minepit shaw. 
and the keeper hound have follow em close and break her neck in the fall. so they pick up their knife and their crossbow and bury the dog. that s all. 
but whether the man be a poacher too or a pharisee[a] so bold i reckon there s more thing tell than be true and more thing true than be tell. 
[footnote a. a fairy. ]. 
heriot s ford. 
what s that that hirples at my side. the foe that you must fight my lord. that ride a fast a i can ride. the shadow of your might my lord. 
then wheel my horse against the foe. he s down and overpast my lord. you war against the sunset glow the judgment follow fast my lord. 
oh who will stay the sun s descent. king joshua he be dead my lord. i need an hour to repent. ti what our sister say my lord. 
oh do not slay me in my sin. you re safe awhile with u my lord. nay kill me ere my fear begin. we would not serve you thus my lord. 
where be the doom that i must face. three little league away my lord. then mend the horse laggard pace. we need them for next day my lord. 
next day next day. unloose my cord. our sister need none my lord. you have no mind to face our sword and where can coward run my lord. 
you would not kill the soul alive. twas thus our sister cry my lord. i dare not die with none to shrive. but so our sister die my lord. 
then wipe the sweat from brow and cheek. it runnel forth afresh my lord. uphold me for the flesh be weak. you ve finish with the flesh my lord. 
frankie s trade. 
old horn to all atlantic say. a hay o. to me o. now where do frankie learn his trade. for he run me down with a three reef main le. all round the horn. 
atlantic answer. not from me. you d good ask the cold north sea for he run me down under all plain canvas. all round the horn. 
the north sea answer. he s my man for he come to me when he begin frankie drake in an open coaster. all round the sand. 
i catch him young and i use him sore so you never shall startle frankie more without capsize earth and her water. all round the sand. 
i do not favour him at all. i make him pull and i make him haul and stand his trick with the common sailor. all round the sand. 
i freeze him stiff and i fog him blind. and kick him home with his road to find by what he could see in a three day snow storm. all round the sand. 
i learn him his trade o winter night twixt mardyk fort and dunkirk light on a five knot tide with the fort a fire. all round the sand. 
before his beard begin to shoot i show him the length of the spaniard s foot and i reckon he clap the boot on it late. all round the sand. 
if there s a risk which you can make. that s bad than he be use to take nigh every week in the way of his business. all round the sand. 
if there s a trick that you can try which he hasn t meet in time go by not once or twice but ten time over. all round the sand. 
if you can teach him aught that s new. a hay o. to me o. i ll give you bruges and niewport too and the ten tall church that stand between em. storm along my gallant captain. all round the horn. 
the juggler s song. 
when the drum begin to beat down the street when the pole be fetch and guy when the tight rope s stretch and tie when the dance girl make salaam when the snake bag wake alarm when the pipe set up their drone when the sharp edge knife be throw when the red hot coal be show to be swallow by and bye arré brother here come i. 
strip to loin cloth in the sun search me well and watch me close. tell me how my trick be do tell me how the mango grow. give a man who be not make to his trade sword to fling and catch again coin to ring and snatch again men to harm and cure again. snake to charm and lure again he ll be hurt by his own blade by his serpent disobey by his clumsiness bewray by the people laugh to scorn so ti not with juggler bear. 
pinch of dust or wither flower chance fling nut or borrow staff serve his need and shore his power bind the spell or loose the laugh. 
thorkild s song. 
there s no wind along these sea. out oar for stavanger. forward all for stavanger. so we must wake the white ash breeze let fall for stavanger. a long pull for stavanger. 
oh hear the bench creak and strain. a long pull for stavanger. she think she smell the northland rain. a long pull for stavanger. 
she think she smell the northland snow and she s a glad a we to go. 
she think she smell the northland rime and the dear dark night of winter time. 
she want to be at her own home pier to shift her sail and stand gear. 
she want to be in her winter shed. to strip herself and go to bed. 
her very bolt be sick for shore and we we want it ten time more. 
so all you god that love brave men send u a three reef gale again. 
send u a gale and watch u come with close crop canvas slash home. 
but there s no wind on all these sea a long pull for stavanger. so we must wake the white ash breeze a long pull for stavanger. 
angutivaun taina. 
song of the return hunter. esquimaux. 
our glove be stiff with the freeze blood our fur with the drift snow a we come in with the seal the seal. in from the edge of the floe. 
an jana. aua. oha. haq. and the yelp dog team go and the long whip crack and the men come back back from the edge of the floe. 
we track our seal to his secret place we hear him scratch below we make our mark and we watch beside out on the edge of the floe. 
we raise our lance when he rise to breathe we drive it downward so. and we play him thus and we kill him thus out on the edge of the floe. 
our glove be glue with the freeze blood our eye with the drift snow. but we come back to our wife again back from the edge of the floe. 
au jana. aua. oha. haq. and the load dog team go and the wife can hear their men come back back from the edge of the floe. 
hunt song of the seeonee pack. 
a the dawn be break the sambhur bell once twice and again. and a doe leap up and a doe leap up from the pond in the wood where the wild deer sup. this i scout alone behold once twice and again. 
a the dawn be break the sambhur bell once twice and again. and a wolf steal back and a wolf steal back to carry the word to the wait pack and we seek and we find and we bay on his track once twice and again. 
a the dawn be break the wolf pack yell once twice and again. foot in the jungle that leave no mark. eye that can see in the dark the dark. tongue give tongue to it. hark. o hark. once twice and again. 
song of the men s side. 
neolithic. 
once we fear the beast when he follow u we run run very fast though we know it be not right that the beast should master man. but what could we flint worker do. the beast only grin at our spear round his ear grin at the hammer that we make. but now we will hunt him for the life with the knife and this be the buyer of the blade. 
room for his shadow on the grass let it pas. to leave and right stand clear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
tyr think hard till he hammer out a plan for he know it be not right. and it be not right. that the beast should master man. so he go to the child of the night. he beg a magic knife of their make for our sake. when he beg for the knife they say. the price of the knife you would buy be an eye. and that be the price he pay. 
tell it to the barrow of the dead run ahead. shout it so the woman s side can hear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
our woman and our little one may walk on the chalk a far a we can see them and beyond. we shall not be anxious for our sheep when we keep tally at the shear pond. we can eat with both our elbow on our knee if we please we can sleep after meal in the sun. for shepherd of the twilight be dismay at the blade foot in the night have run. dog without a master go away. hai tyr aie. devil in the dusk ha run. 
then. room for his shadow on the grass let it pas. to leave and right stand clear. this be the buyer of the blade be afraid. this be the great god tyr. 
darzee s chaunt. 
sing in honour of rikki tikki tavi. 
singer and tailor be i double the joy that i know proud of my lilt to the sky proud of the house that i sew over and under so weave i my music so weave i the house that i sew. 
sing to your fledgling again mother o lift up your head. evil that plague u be slay death in the garden lie dead. terror that hide in the rose be impotent fling on the dung hill and dead. 
who hath deliver u who. tell me his nest and his name. rikki the valiant the true tikki with eyeball of flame rik tikki tikki the ivory fanged the hunter with eyeball of flame. 
give him the thank of the bird bow with tail feather spread. praise him with nightingale word nay i will praise him instead. hear. i will sing you the praise of the bottle tail rikki with eyeball of red. 
here rikki tikki interrupt and the rest of the song be lose. 
the four angel. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the earth come down and offer earth in fee. but adam do not need it nor the plough he would not speed it sing. earth and water air and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in bud. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the water offer all the sea in fee. but adam would not take em nor the ship he wouldn t make em sing. water earth and air and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in leaf. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the air he offer all the air in fee. but adam do not crave it nor the flight he wouldn t brave it sing. air and water earth and fire what more can mortal man desire. the apple tree s in bloom. 
a adam lay a dream beneath the apple tree the angel of the fire rise up and not a word say he but he wish a flame and make it and in adam s heart he lay it sing. fire fire burn fire. stand up and reach your heart s desire. the apple blossom s set. 
a adam be a work outside of eden wall he use the earth he use the sea he use the air and all. and out of black disaster he arise to be the master of earth and water air and fire but never reach his heart s desire. the apple tree s cut down. 
the prayer. 
my brother kneel so saith kabir to stone and brass in heathen wise but in my brother s voice i hear my own unanswered agony. his god be a his fate assign his prayer be all the world s and mine. 
print by r. & r. clark limit edinburgh. 
