just so story. 
by rudyard kipling. 
table of content. 
how the whale get his throat how the camel get his hump how the rhinoceros get his skin how the leopard get his spot the elephant s child the sing song of old man kangaroo the begin of the armadillo how the first letter be write how the alphabet be make the crab that play with the sea the cat that walk by himself the butterfly that stamp. 
how the whale get his throat. 
in the sea once upon a time o my best beloved there be a whale and he eat fish. he eat the starfish and the garfish and the crab and the dab and the plaice and the dace and the skate and his mate and the mackereel and the pickereel and the really truly twirly whirly eel. all the fish he could find in all the sea he eat with his mouth so. till at last there be only one small fish leave in all the sea and he be a small stute fish and he swim a little behind the whale s right ear so a to be out of harm s way. then the whale stand up on his tail and say i m hungry. and the small stute fish say in a small stute voice noble and generous cetacean have you ever taste man. 
no say the whale. what be it like. 
nice say the small stute fish. nice but nubbly. 
then fetch me some say the whale and he make the sea froth up with his tail. 
one at a time be enough say the stute fish. if you swim to latitude fifty north longitude forty west. that be magic. you will find sit on a raft in the middle of the sea with nothing on but a pair of blue canvas breech a pair of suspender. you must not forget the suspender best beloved. and a jack knife one ship wreck mariner who it be only fair to tell you be a man of infinite resource and sagacity. 
so the whale swim and swim to latitude fifty north longitude forty west a fast a he could swim and on a raft in the middle of the sea with nothing to wear except a pair of blue canvas breech a pair of suspender. you must particularly remember the suspender best beloved. and a jack knife he find one single solitary shipwreck mariner trail his toe in the water. he have his mummy s leave to paddle or else he would never have do it because he be a man of infinite resource and sagacity. 
then the whale open his mouth back and back and back till it nearly touch his tail and he swallow the shipwreck mariner and the raft he be sit on and his blue canvas breech and the suspender. which you must not forget. and the jack knife he swallow them all down into his warm dark inside cup board and then he smack his lip so and turn round three time on his tail. 
but a soon a the mariner who be a man of infinite resource and sagacity find himself truly inside the whale s warm dark inside cup board he stump and he jump and he thump and he bump and he prance and he dance and he bang and he clang and he hit and he bite and he leap and he creep and he prowl and he howl and he hop and he drop and he cry and he sigh and he crawl and he bawl and he step and he lepped and he dance hornpipe where he shouldn t and the whale felt most unhappy indeed. have you forget the suspender. 
so he say to the stute fish this man be very nubbly and besides he be make me hiccough. what shall i do. 
tell him to come out say the stute fish. 
so the whale call down his own throat to the shipwreck mariner come out and behave yourself. i ve get the hiccough. 
nay nay. say the mariner. not so but far otherwise. take me to my natal shore and the white cliff of albion and i ll think about it. and he begin to dance more than ever. 
you have good take him home say the stute fish to the whale. i ought to have warn you that he be a man of infinite resource and sagacity. 
so the whale swim and swim and swim with both flipper and his tail a hard a he could for the hiccough. and at last he saw the mariner s natal shore and the white cliff of albion and he rush half way up the beach and open his mouth wide and wide and wide and say change here for winchester ashuelot nashua keene and station on the fitch_burg road. and just a he say fitch the mariner walk out of his mouth. but while the whale have be swim the mariner who be indeed a person of infinite resource and sagacity have take his jack knife and cut up the raft into a little square grate all run criss cross and he have tie it firm with his suspender. now_ you know why you be not to forget the suspender. and he drag that grate good and tight into the whale s throat and there it stick. then he recite the follow sloka_ which a you have not hear it i will now proceed to relate. 
by mean of a grate i have stop your ating. 
for the mariner he be also an hi ber ni an. and he step out on the shingle and go home to his mother who have give him leave to trail his toe in the water. and he marry and live happily ever afterward. so do the whale. but from that day on the grate in his throat which he could neither cough up nor swallow down prevent him eat anything except very very small fish. and that be the reason why whale nowadays never eat men or boy or little girl. 
the small stute fish go and hide himself in the mud under the door sill of the equator. he be afraid that the whale might be angry with him. 
the sailor take the jack knife home. he be wear the blue canvas breech when he walk out on the shingle. the suspender be leave behind you see to tie the grate with. and that be the end of that tale. 
when the cabin port hole be dark and green because of the sea outside. when the ship go wop. with a wiggle between. and the steward fall into the soup tureen and the trunk begin to slide. when nursey lie on the floor in a heap and mummy tell you to let her sleep and you aren t wake or wash or dress why then you will know. if you haven t guess. you re fifty north and forty west. 
how the camel get his hump. 
now this be the next tale and it tell how the camel get his big hump. 
in the begin of year when the world be so new and all and the animal be just begin to work for man there be a camel and he live in the middle of a howl desert because he do not want to work. and besides he be a howler himself. so he eat stick and thorn and tamarisk and milkweed and prickle most scruciating idle. and when anybody speak to him he say humph. just humph. and no more. 
presently the horse come to him on monday morning with a saddle on his back and a bite in his mouth and say camel o camel come out and trot like the rest of u. 
humph. say the camel. and the horse go away and tell the man. 
presently the dog come to him with a stick in his mouth and say camel o camel come and fetch and carry like the rest of u. 
humph. say the camel. and the dog go away and tell the man. 
presently the ox come to him with the yoke on his neck and say camel o camel come and plough like the rest of u. 
humph. say the camel. and the ox go away and tell the man. 
at the end of the day the man call the horse and the dog and the ox together and say three o three i m very sorry for you. with the world so new and all. but that humph thing in the desert can t work or he would have be here by now so i be go to leave him alone and you must work double time to make up for it. 
that make the three very angry. with the world so new and all. and they hold a palaver and an indaba_ and a punchayet_ and a pow wow on the edge of the desert. and the camel come chew on milkweed most scruciating idle and laugh at them. then he say humph. and go away again. 
presently there come along the djinn in charge of all desert roll in a cloud of dust. djinn always travel that way because it be magic. and he stop to palaver and pow pow with the three. 
djinn of all desert say the horse be it right for any one to be idle with the world so new and all. 
certainly not say the djinn. 
well say the horse there s a thing in the middle of your howl desert. and he s a howler himself. with a long neck and long leg and he hasn t do a stroke of work since monday morning. he win t trot. 
whew. say the djinn whistle that s my camel for all the gold in arabia. what doe he say about it. 
he say humph. say the dog. and he win t fetch and carry. 
doe he say anything else. 
only humph. and he win t plough say the ox. 
very good say the djinn. i ll humph him if you will kindly wait a minute. 
the djinn roll himself up in his dust cloak and take a bear across the desert and find the camel most scruciatingly idle look at his own reflection in a pool of water. 
my long and bubble friend say the djinn what s this i hear of your do no work with the world so new and all. 
humph. say the camel. 
the djinn sit down with his chin in his hand and begin to think a great magic while the camel look at his own reflection in the pool of water. 
you ve give the three extra work ever since monday morning all on account of your scruciating idleness say the djinn. and he go on think magic with his chin in his hand. 
humph. say the camel. 
i shouldn t say that again if i be you say the djinn. you might say it once too often. bubble i want you to work. 
and the camel say humph. again. but no sooner have he say it than he saw his back that he be so proud of puff up and puff up into a great big lollop humph. 
do you see that. say the djinn. that s your very own humph that you ve bring upon your very own self by not work. to day be thursday and you ve do no work since monday when the work begin. now you be go to work. 
how can i say the camel with this humph on my back. 
that s make a purpose say the djinn all because you miss those three day. you will be able to work now for three day without eat because you can live on your humph. and don t you ever say i never do anything for you. come out of the desert and go to the three and behave. humph yourself. 
and the camel humphed himself humph and all and go away to join the three. and from that day to this the camel always wear a humph. we call it hump now not to hurt his feeling. but he ha never yet catch up with the three day that he miss at the begin of the world and he ha never yet learn how to behave. 
the camel s hump be an ugly lump which well you may see at the zoo. but ugly yet be the hump we get from have too little to do. 
kiddy and grow up too oo oo if we haven t enough to do oo oo we get the hump cameelious hump the hump that be black and blue. 
we climb out of bed with a frouzly head and a snarly yarly voice. we shiver and scowl and we grunt and we growl at our bath and our boot and our toy. 
and there ought to be a corner for me. and i know there be one for you. when we get the hump cameelious hump the hump that be black and blue. 
the cure for this ill be not to sit still or frowst with a book by the fire. but to take a large hoe and a shovel also and dig till you gently perspire. 
and then you will find that the sun and the wind. and the djinn of the garden too have lift the hump the horrible hump the hump that be black and blue. 
i get it a well a you oo oo if i haven t enough to do oo oo we all get hump cameelious hump kiddy and grow up too. 
how the rhinoceros get his skin. 
once upon a time on an uninhabited island on the shore of the red sea there live a parsee from whose hat the ray of the sun be reflect in more than oriental splendour. and the parsee live by the red sea with nothing but his hat and his knife and a cook stave of the kind that you must particularly never touch. and one day he take flour and water and currant and plum and sugar and thing and make himself one cake which be two foot across and three foot thick. it be indeed a superior comestible. that s magic. and he put it on stave because he be allow to cook on the stave and he bake it and he bake it till it be all do brown and smelt most sentimental. but just a he be go to eat it there come down to the beach from the altogether uninhabited interior one rhinoceros with a horn on his nose two piggy eye and few manner. in those day the rhinoceros s skin fit him quite tight. there be no wrinkle in it anywhere. he look exactly like a noah s ark rhinoceros but of course much big. all the same he have no manner then and he ha no manner now and he never will have any manner. he say how. and the parsee leave that cake and climb to the top of a palm tree with nothing on but his hat from which the ray of the sun be always reflect in more than oriental splendour. and the rhinoceros upset the oil stave with his nose and the cake roll on the sand and he spike that cake on the horn of his nose and he eat it and he go away wave his tail to the desolate and exclusively uninhabited interior which abut on the island of mazanderan socotra and promontory of the large equinox. then the parsee come down from his palm tree and put the stave on it leg and recite the follow sloka which a you have not hear i will now proceed to relate. 
them that take cake which the parsee man bake make dreadful mistake. 
and there be a great deal more in that than you would think. 
because five week late there be a heat wave in the red sea and everybody take off all the clothe they have. the parsee take off his hat. but the rhinoceros take off his skin and carry it over his shoulder a he come down to the beach to bathe. in those day it button underneath with three button and look like a waterproof. he say nothing whatever about the parsee s cake because he have eat it all. and he never have any manner then since or henceforward. he waddle straight into the water and blow bubble through his nose leave his skin on the beach. 
presently the parsee come by and find the skin and he smile one smile that run all round his face two time. then he dance three time round the skin and rub his hand. then he go to his camp and fill his hat with cake crumb for the parsee never eat anything but cake and never sweep out his camp. he take that skin and he shake that skin and he scrub that skin and he rub that skin just a full of old dry stale tickly cake crumb and some burn currant a ever it could possibly hold. then he climb to the top of his palm tree and wait for the rhinoceros to come out of the water and put it on. 
and the rhinoceros do. he button it up with the three button and it tickle like cake crumb in bed. then he want to scratch but that make it bad. and then he lay down on the sand and roll and roll and roll and every time he roll the cake crumb tickle him bad and bad and bad. then he run to the palm tree and rub and rub and rub himself against it. he rub so much and so hard that he rub his skin into a great fold over his shoulder and another fold underneath where the button use to be. but he rub the button off. and he rub some more fold over his leg. and it spoil his temper but it didn t make the least difference to the cake crumb. they be inside his skin and they tickle. so he go home very angry indeed and horribly scratchy. and from that day to this every rhinoceros ha great fold in his skin and a very bad temper all on account of the cake crumb inside. 
but the parsee come down from his palm tree wear his hat from which the ray of the sun be reflect in more than oriental splendour pack up his cook stave and go away in the direction of orotavo amygdala the upland meadow of anantarivo and the marsh of sonaput. 
this uninhabited island be off cape gardafui by the beach of socotra and the pink arabian sea. but it s hot too hot from suez for the like of you and me ever to go in a p. and o. and call on the cake parsee. 
how the leopard get his spot. 
in the day when everybody start fair best beloved the leopard live in a place call the high veldt. member it wasn t the low veldt or the bush veldt or the sour veldt but the sclusively bare hot shiny high veldt where there be sand and sandy colour rock and sclusively tuft of sandy yellowish grass. the giraffe and the zebra and the eland and the koodoo and the hartebeest live there. and they be sclusively sandy yellow brownish all over. but the leopard he be the sclusivest sandy yellowish brown of them all a greyish yellowish catty shape kind of beast and he match the sclusively yellowish greyish brownish colour of the high veldt to one hair. this be very bad for the giraffe and the zebra and the rest of them. for he would lie down by a sclusively yellowish greyish brownish stone or clump of grass and when the giraffe or the zebra or the eland or the koodoo or the bush buck or the bonte buck come by he would surprise them out of their jumpsome life. he would indeed. and also there be an ethiopian with bow and arrow. a sclusively greyish brownish yellowish man he be then. who live on the high veldt with the leopard. and the two use to hunt together the ethiopian with his bow and arrow and the leopard sclusively with his teeth and claw till the giraffe and the eland and the koodoo and the quagga and all the rest of them didn t know which way to jump best beloved. they didn t indeed. 
after a long time thing live for ever so long in those day they learn to avoid anything that look like a leopard or an ethiopian. and bite by bite the giraffe begin it because his leg be the long they go away from the high veldt. they scuttle for day and day and day till they come to a great forest sclusively full of tree and bush and stripy speckly patchy blatchy shadow and there they hide. and after another long time what with stand half in the shade and half out of it and what with the slippery slidy shadow of the tree fall on them the giraffe grow blotchy and the zebra grow stripy and the eland and the koodoo grow dark with little wavy grey line on their back like bark on a tree trunk. and so though you could hear them and smell them you could very seldom see them and then only when you know precisely where to look. they have a beautiful time in the sclusively speckly spickly shadow of the forest while the leopard and the ethiopian run about over the sclusively greyish yellowish reddish high veldt outside wonder where all their breakfast and their dinner and their tea have go. at last they be so hungry that they eat rat and beetle and rock rabbit the leopard and the ethiopian and then they have the big tummy ache both together. and then they meet baviaan the dog head bark baboon who be quite the wise animal in all south africa. 
say leopard to baviaan. and it be a very hot day. where ha all the game go. 
and baviaan wink. he know. 
say the ethiopian to baviaan can you tell me the present habitat of the aboriginal fauna. that mean just the same thing but the ethiopian always use long word. he be a grow up. 
and baviaan wink. he know. 
then say baviaan the game ha go into other spot. and my advice to you leopard be to go into other spot a soon a you can. 
and the ethiopian say that be all very fine but i wish to know whither the aboriginal fauna ha migrate. 
then say baviaan the aboriginal fauna ha join the aboriginal flora because it be high time for a change. and my advice to you ethiopian be to change a soon a you can. 
that puzzle the leopard and the ethiopian but they set off to look for the aboriginal flora and presently after ever so many day they saw a great high tall forest full of tree trunk all sclusively speckle and sprottled and spottled dot and splash and slash and hatch and cross hatch with shadow. say that quickly aloud and you will see how very shadowy the forest must have be. 
what be this say the leopard that be so sclusively dark and yet so full of little piece of light. 
i don t know say the ethiopian but it ought to be the aboriginal flora. i can smell giraffe and i can hear giraffe but i can t see giraffe. 
that s curious say the leopard. i suppose it be because we have just come in out of the sunshine. i can smell zebra and i can hear zebra but i can t see zebra. 
wait a bite say the ethiopian. it s a long time since we ve hunt em. perhaps we ve forget what they be like. 
fiddle. say the leopard. i remember them perfectly on the high veldt especially their marrow bone. giraffe be about seventeen foot high of a sclusively fulvous golden yellow from head to heel. and zebra be about four and a half foot high of a sclusively grey fawn colour from head to heel. 
umm say the ethiopian look into the speckly spickly shadow of the aboriginal flora forest. then they ought to show up in this dark place like ripe banana in a smokehouse. 
but they didn t. the leopard and the ethiopian hunt all day. and though they could smell them and hear them they never saw one of them. 
for goodness sake say the leopard at tea time let u wait till it get dark. this daylight hunt be a perfect scandal. 
so they wait till dark and then the leopard hear something breathe sniffily in the starlight that fell all stripy through the branch and he jump at the noise and it smelt like zebra and it felt like zebra and when he knock it down it kick like zebra but he couldn t see it. so he say be quiet o you person without any form. i be go to sit on your head till morning because there be something about you that i don t understand. 
presently he hear a grunt and a crash and a scramble and the ethiopian call out i ve catch a thing that i can t see. it smell like giraffe and it kick like giraffe but it hasn t any form. 
don t you trust it say the leopard. sit on it head till the morning same a me. they haven t any form any of em. 
so they sit down on them hard till bright morning time and then leopard say what have you at your end of the table brother. 
the ethiopian scratch his head and say it ought to be sclusively a rich fulvous orange tawny from head to heel and it ought to be giraffe. but it be cover all over with chestnut blotch. what have you at your end of the table brother. 
and the leopard scratch his head and say it ought to be sclusively a delicate greyish fawn and it ought to be zebra. but it be cover all over with black and purple stripe. what in the world have you be do to yourself zebra. don t you know that if you be on the high veldt i could see you ten mile off. you haven t any form. 
yes say the zebra but this isn t the high veldt. can t you see. 
i can now say the leopard. but i couldn t all yesterday. how be it do. 
let u up say the zebra and we will show you. 
they let the zebra and the giraffe get up. and zebra move away to some little thorn bush where the sunlight fell all stripy and giraffe move off to some tallish tree where the shadow fell all blotchy. 
now watch say the zebra and the giraffe. this be the way it s do. one two three. and where s your breakfast. 
leopard star and ethiopian star but all they could see be stripy shadow and blotch shadow in the forest but never a sign of zebra and giraffe. they have just walk off and hide themselves in the shadowy forest. 
hi. hi. say the ethiopian. that s a trick worth learn. take a lesson by it leopard. you show up in this dark place like a bar of soap in a coal scuttle. 
ho. ho. say the leopard. would it surprise you very much to know that you show up in this dark place like a mustard plaster on a sack of coal. 
well call name win t catch dinner say the ethiopian. the long and the little of it be that we don t match our background. i m go to take baviaan s advice. he tell me i ought to change. and a i ve nothing to change except my skin i m go to change that. 
what to. say the leopard tremendously excite. 
to a nice work blackish brownish colour with a little purple in it and touch of slaty blue. it will be the very thing for hide in hollow and behind tree. 
so he change his skin then and there and the leopard be more excite than ever. he have never see a man change his skin before. 
but what about me. he say when the ethiopian have work his last little finger into his fine new black skin. 
you take baviaan s advice too. he tell you to go into spot. 
so i do say the leopard. i go into other spot a fast a i could. i go into this spot with you and a lot of good it ha do me. 
oh say the ethiopian baviaan didn t mean spot in south africa. he mean spot on your skin. 
what s the use of that. say the leopard. 
think of giraffe say the ethiopian. or if you prefer stripe think of zebra. they find their spot and stripe give them per foot satisfaction. 
umm say the leopard. i wouldn t look like zebra not for ever so. 
well make up your mind say the ethiopian because i d hate to go hunt without you but i must if you insist on look like a sun flower against a tar fence. 
i ll take spot then say the leopard. but don t make em too vulgar big. i wouldn t look like giraffe not for ever so. 
i ll make em with the tip of my finger say the ethiopian. there s plenty of black leave on my skin still. stand over. 
then the ethiopian put his five finger close together. there be plenty of black leave on his new skin still. and press them all over the leopard and wherever the five finger touch they leave five little black mark all close together. you can see them on any leopard s skin you like best beloved. sometimes the finger slip and the mark get a little blur. but if you look closely at any leopard now you will see that there be always five spot off five fat black finger tip. 
now you be a beauty. say the ethiopian. you can lie out on the bare grind and look like a heap of pebble. you can lie out on the naked rock and look like a piece of pudding stone. you can lie out on a leafy branch and look like sunshine sift through the leaf. and you can lie right across the centre of a path and look like nothing in particular. think of that and purr. 
but if i m all this say the leopard why didn t you go spotty too. 
oh plain black s best for a nigger say the ethiopian. now come along and we ll see if we can t get even with mr. one two three where s your breakfast. 
so they go away and live happily ever afterward best beloved. that be all. 
oh now and then you will hear grow up say can the ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his spot. i don t think even grow up would keep on say such a silly thing if the leopard and the ethiopian hadn t do it once do you. but they will never do it again best beloved. they be quite content a they be. 
i be the most wise baviaan say in most wise tone let u melt into the landscape just u two by our lones. people have come in a carriage call. but mummy be there. yes i can go if you take me nurse say she don t care. let s go up to the pig sty and sit on the farmyard rail. let s say thing to the bunny and watch em skitter their tail. let s oh anything daddy so long a it s you and me and go truly explore and not be in till tea. here s your boot. i ve bring em. and here s your cap and stick and here s your pipe and tobacco. oh come along out of it quick. 
the elephant s child. 
in the high and far off time the elephant o best beloved have no trunk. he have only a blackish bulgy nose a big a a boot that he could wriggle about from side to side. but he couldn t pick up thing with it. but there be one elephant a new elephant an elephant s child who be full of satiable curtiosity and that mean he ask ever so many question. and he live in africa and he fill all africa with his satiable curtiosities. he ask his tall aunt the ostrich why her tail feather grow just so and his tall aunt the ostrich spank him with her hard hard claw. he ask his tall uncle the giraffe what make his skin spotty and his tall uncle the giraffe spank him with his hard hard hoof. and still he be full of satiable curtiosity. he ask his broad aunt the hippopotamus why her eye be red and his broad aunt the hippopotamus spank him with her broad broad hoof. and he ask his hairy uncle the baboon why melon taste just so and his hairy uncle the baboon spank him with his hairy hairy paw. and still he be full of satiable curtiosity. he ask question about everything that he saw or hear or felt or smelt or touch and all his uncle and his aunt spank him. and still he be full of satiable curtiosity. 
one fine morning in the middle of the precession of the equinox this satiable elephant s child ask a new fine question that he have never ask before. he ask what doe the crocodile have for dinner. then everybody say hush. in a loud and dretful tone and they spank him immediately and directly without stop for a long time. 
by and by when that be finish he come upon kolokolo bird sit in the middle of a wait a bite thorn bush and he say my father ha spank me and my mother ha spank me. all my aunt and uncle have spank me for my satiable curtiosity. and still i want to know what the crocodile ha for dinner. 
then kolokolo bird say with a mournful cry go to the bank of the great grey green greasy limpopo river all set about with fever tree and find out. 
that very next morning when there be nothing leave of the equinox because the precession have precede accord to precedent this satiable elephant s child take a hundred pound of banana. the little short red kind. and a hundred pound of sugar cane. the long purple kind. and seventeen melon. the greeny crackly kind. and say to all his dear family goodbye. i be go to the great grey green greasy limpopo river all set about with fever tree to find out what the crocodile ha for dinner. and they all spank him once more for luck though he ask them most politely to stop. 
then he go away a little warm but not at all astonish eat melon and throw the rind about because he could not pick it up. 
he go from graham s town to kimberley and from kimberley to khama s country and from khama s country he go east by north eat melon all the time till at last he come to the bank of the great grey green greasy limpopo river all set about with fever tree precisely a kolokolo bird have say. 
now you must know and understand o best beloved that till that very week and day and hour and minute this satiable elephant s child have never see a crocodile and do not know what one be like. it be all his satiable curtiosity. 
the first thing that he find be a bi colour python rock snake curl round a rock. 
scuse me say the elephant s child most politely but have you see such a thing a a crocodile in these promiscuous part. 
have i see a crocodile. say the bi colour python rock snake in a voice of dretful scorn. what will you ask me next. 
scuse me say the elephant s child but could you kindly tell me what he ha for dinner. 
then the bi colour python rock snake uncoil himself very quickly from the rock and spank the elephant s child with his scalesome flailsome tail. 
that be odd say the elephant s child because my father and my mother and my uncle and my aunt not to mention my other aunt the hippopotamus and my other uncle the baboon have all spank me for my satiable curtiosity and i suppose this be the same thing. 
so he say good bye very politely to the bi colour python rock snake and help to coil him up on the rock again and go on a little warm but not at all astonish eat melon and throw the rind about because he could not pick it up till he tread on what he think be a log of wood at the very edge of the great grey green greasy limpopo river all set about with fever tree. 
but it be really the crocodile o best beloved and the crocodile wink one eye like this. 
scuse me say the elephant s child most politely but do you happen to have see a crocodile in these promiscuous part. 
then the crocodile wink the other eye and lift half his tail out of the mud. and the elephant s child step back most politely because he do not wish to be spank again. 
come hither little one say the crocodile. why do you ask such thing. 
scuse me say the elephant s child most politely but my father ha spank me my mother ha spank me not to mention my tall aunt the ostrich and my tall uncle the giraffe who can kick ever so hard a well a my broad aunt the hippopotamus and my hairy uncle the baboon and include the bi colour python rock snake with the scalesome flailsome tail just up the bank who spank hard than any of them. and so if it s quite all the same to you i don t want to be spank any more. 
come hither little one say the crocodile for i be the crocodile and he weep crocodile tear to show it be quite true. 
then the elephant s child grow all breathless and pant and kneel down on the bank and say you be the very person i have be look for all these long day. will you please tell me what you have for dinner. 
come hither little one say the crocodile and i ll whisper. 
then the elephant s child put his head down close to the crocodile s musky tusky mouth and the crocodile catch him by his little nose which up to that very week day hour and minute have be no big than a boot though much more useful. 
i think say the crocodile and he say it between his teeth like this i think to day i will begin with elephant s child. 
at this o best beloved the elephant s child be much annoy and he say speak through his nose like this lead go. you be hurtig be. 
then the bi colour python rock snake scuffle down from the bank and say my young friend if you do not now immediately and instantly pull a hard a ever you can it be my opinion that your acquaintance in the large pattern leather ulster. and by this he mean the crocodile. will jerk you into yonder limpid stream before you can say jack robinson. 
this be the way bi colour python rock snake always talk. 
then the elephant s child sit back on his little haunch and pull and pull and pull and his nose begin to stretch. and the crocodile flounder into the water make it all creamy with great sweep of his tail and he pull and pull and pull. 
and the elephant s child s nose keep on stretch. and the elephant s child spread all his little four leg and pull and pull and pull and his nose keep on stretch. and the crocodile thresh his tail like an oar and he pull and pull and pull and at each pull the elephant s child s nose grow long and long and it hurt him hijjus. 
then the elephant s child felt his leg slip and he say through his nose which be now nearly five foot long this be too butch for be. 
then the bi colour python rock snake come down from the bank and knot himself in a double cleave hitch round the elephant s child s hind leg and say rash and inexperienced traveller we will now seriously devote ourselves to a little high tension because if we do not it be my impression that yonder self propel man of war with the armour plat upper deck. and by this o best beloved he mean the crocodile. will permanently vitiate your future career. 
that be the way all bi colour python rock snake always talk. 
so he pull and the elephant s child pull and the crocodile pull. but the elephant s child and the bi colour python rock snake pull hard. and at last the crocodile let go of the elephant s child s nose with a plop that you could hear all up and down the limpopo. 
then the elephant s child sit down most hard and sudden. but first he be careful to say thank you to the bi colour python rock snake. and next he be kind to his poor pull nose and wrap it all up in cool banana leaf and hang it in the great grey green greasy limpopo to cool. 
what be you do that for. say the bi colour python rock snake. 
scuse me say the elephant s child but my nose be badly out of shape and i be wait for it to shrink. 
then you will have to wait a long time say the bi colour python rock snake. some people do not know what be good for them. 
the elephant s child sit there for three day wait for his nose to shrink. but it never grow any short and besides it make him squint. for o best beloved you will see and understand that the crocodile have pull it out into a really truly trunk same a all elephant have to day. 
at the end of the third day a fly come and sting him on the shoulder and before he know what he be do he lift up his trunk and hit that fly dead with the end of it. 
vantage number one. say the bi colour python rock snake. you couldn t have do that with a mere smear nose. try and eat a little now. 
before he think what he be do the elephant s child put out his trunk and pluck a large bundle of grass dust it clean against his fore leg and stuff it into his own mouth. 
vantage number two. say the bi colour python rock snake. you couldn t have do that with a mear smear nose. don t you think the sun be very hot here. 
it be say the elephant s child and before he think what he be do he schlooped up a schloop of mud from the bank of the great grey green greasy limpopo and slap it on his head where it make a cool schloopy sloshy mud cap all trickly behind his ear. 
vantage number three. say the bi colour python rock snake. you couldn t have do that with a mere smear nose. now how do you feel about be spank again. 
scuse me say the elephant s child but i should not like it at all. 
how would you like to spank somebody. say the bi colour python rock snake. 
i should like it very much indeed say the elephant s child. 
well say the bi colour python rock snake you will find that new nose of yours very useful to spank people with. 
thank you say the elephant s child i ll remember that. and now i think i ll go home to all my dear family and try. 
so the elephant s child go home across africa frisk and whisk his trunk. when he want fruit to eat he pull fruit down from a tree instead of wait for it to fall a he use to do. when he want grass he pluck grass up from the grind instead of go on his knee a he use to do. when the fly bite him he break off the branch of a tree and use it a fly whisk. and he make himself a new cool slushy squshy mud cap whenever the sun be hot. when he felt lonely walk through africa he sing to himself down his trunk and the noise be loud than several brass band. 
he go especially out of his way to find a broad hippopotamus. she be no relation of his. and he spank her very hard to make sure that the bi colour python rock snake have speak the truth about his new trunk. the rest of the time he pick up the melon rind that he have drop on his way to the limpopo for he be a tidy pachyderm. 
one dark even he come back to all his dear family and he coil up his trunk and say how do you do. they be very glad to see him and immediately say come here and be spank for your satiable curtiosity. 
pooh say the elephant s child. i don t think you people know anything about spank. but i do and i ll show you. then he uncurl his trunk and knock two of his dear brother head over heel. 
o banana. say they where do you learn that trick and what have you do to your nose. 
i get a new one from the crocodile on the bank of the great grey green greasy limpopo river say the elephant s child. i ask him what he have for dinner and he give me this to keep. 
it look very ugly say his hairy uncle the baboon. 
it doe say the elephant s child. but it s very useful and he pick up his hairy uncle the baboon by one hairy leg and heave him into a hornet s nest. 
then that bad elephant s child spank all his dear family for a long time till they be very warm and greatly astonish. he pull out his tall ostrich aunt s tail feather. and he catch his tall uncle the giraffe by the hind leg and drag him through a thorn bush. and he shout at his broad aunt the hippopotamus and blow bubble into her ear when she be sleep in the water after meal. but he never let any one touch kolokolo bird. 
at last thing grow so excite that his dear family go off one by one in a hurry to the bank of the great grey green greasy limpopo river all set about with fever tree to borrow new nose from the crocodile. when they come back nobody spank anybody any more. and ever since that day o best beloved all the elephant you will ever see besides all those that you win t have trunk precisely like the trunk of the satiable elephant s child. 
i keep six honest serve men. they teach me all i know. their name be what and where and when and how and why and who. i send them over land and sea i send them east and west. but after they have work for me i give them all a rest. 
i let them rest from nine till five. for i be busy then a well a breakfast lunch and tea for they be hungry men. but different folk have different view. i know a person small she keep ten million serve men who get no rest at all. she send em abroad on her own affair from the second she open her eye one million hows two million wheres and seven million why. 
the sing song of old man kangaroo. 
not always be the kangaroo a now we do behold him but a different animal with four short leg. he be grey and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on an outcrop in the middle of australia and he go to the little god nqa. 
he go to nqa at six before breakfast say make me different from all other animal by five this afternoon. 
up jump nqa from his seat on the sandflat and shout go away. 
he be grey and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on a rock ledge in the middle of australia and he go to the middle god nquing. 
he go to nquing at eight after breakfast say make me different from all other animal. make me also wonderfully popular by five this afternoon. 
up jump nquing from his burrow in the spinifex and shout go away. 
he be grey and he be woolly and his pride be inordinate. he dance on a sandbank in the middle of australia and he go to the big god nqong. 
he go to nqong at ten before dinner time say make me different from all other animal. make me popular and wonderfully run after by five this afternoon. 
up jump nqong from his bath in the salt pan and shout yes i will. 
nqong call dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry dusty in the sunshine and show him kangaroo. nqong say dingo. wake up dingo. do you see that gentleman dance on an ashpit. he want to be popular and very truly run after. dingo make him so. 
up jump dingo yellow dog dingo and say what that cat rabbit. 
off run dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry grin like a coal scuttle run after kangaroo. 
off go the proud kangaroo on his four little leg like a bunny. 
this o beloved of mine end the first part of the tale. 
he run through the desert. he run through the mountain. he run through the salt pan. he run through the reed bed. he run through the blue gum. he run through the spinifex. he run till his front leg ache. 
he have to. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo always hungry grin like a rat trap never get near never get farther run after kangaroo. 
he have to. 
still run kangaroo old man kangaroo. he run through the ti tree. he run through the mulga. he run through the long grass. he run through the short grass. he run through the tropic of capricorn and cancer. he run till his hind leg ache. 
he have to. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo hungry and hungry grin like a horse collar never get near never get farther. and they come to the wollgong river. 
now there wasn t any bridge and there wasn t any ferry boat and kangaroo didn t know how to get over. so he stand on his leg and hop. 
he have to. 
he hop through the flinders. he hop through the cinder. he hop through the desert in the middle of australia. he hop like a kangaroo. 
first he hop one yard. then he hop three yard. then he hop five yard. his leg grow strong. his leg grow long. he hadn t any time for rest or refreshment and he want them very much. 
still run dingo yellow dog dingo very much bewilder very much hungry and wonder what in the world or out of it make old man kangaroo hop. 
for he hop like a cricket. like a pea in a saucepan. or a new rubber ball on a nursery floor. 
he have to. 
he tuck up his front leg. he hop on his hind leg. he stick out his tail for a balance weight behind him. and he hop through the darling down. 
he have to. 
still run dingo tire dog dingo hungry and hungry very much bewilder and wonder when in the world or out of it would old man kangaroo stop. 
then come nqong from his bath in the salt pan and say it s five o clock. 
down sit dingo poor dog dingo always hungry dusky in the sunshine. hang out his tongue and howl. 
down sit kangaroo old man kangaroo stick out his tail like a milk stool behind him and say thank goodness that s finish. 
then say nqong who be always a gentleman why aren t you grateful to yellow dog dingo. why don t you thank him for all he ha do for you. 
then say kangaroo tire old kangaroo he s chase me out of the home of my childhood. he s chase me out of my regular meal time. he s alter my shape so i ll never get it back. and he s play old scratch with my leg. 
then say nqong perhaps i m mistake but didn t you ask me to make you different from all other animal a well a to make you very truly seek after. and now it be five o clock. 
yes say kangaroo. i wish that i hadn t. i think you would do it by charm and incantation but this be a practical joke. 
joke. say nqong from his bath in the blue gum. say that again and i ll whistle up dingo and run your hind leg off. 
no say the kangaroo. i must apologise. leg be leg and you needn t alter em so far a i be concern. i only mean to explain to your lordliness that i ve have nothing to eat since morning and i m very empty indeed. 
yes say dingo yellow dog dingo i be just in the same situation. i ve make him different from all other animal. but what may i have for my tea. 
then say nqong from his bath in the salt pan come and ask me about it tomorrow because i m go to wash. 
so they be leave in the middle of australia old man kangaroo and yellow dog dingo and each say that s your fault. 
this be the mouth fill song of the race that be run by a boomer run in a single burst only event of it kind start by big god nqong from warrigaborrigarooma old man kangaroo first. yellow dog dingo behind. 
kangaroo bound away his back leg work like piston bound from morning till dark twenty five foot to a bind. yellow dog dingo lay like a yellow cloud in the distance much too busy to bark. my. but they cover the grind. 
nobody know where they go or follow the track that they fly in for that continent hadn t be give a name. they run thirty degree from torres strait to the leeuwin. look at the atlas please. and they run back a they come. 
s pose you could trot from adelaide to the pacific for an afternoon s run half what these gentleman do you would feel rather hot but your leg would develop terrific yes my importunate son you d be a marvellous kid. 
the begin of the armadillo. 
this o best beloved be another story of the high and far off time. in the very middle of those time be a stickly prickly hedgehog and he live on the bank of the turbid amazon eat shelly snail and thing. and he have a friend a slow solid tortoise who live on the bank of the turbid amazon eat green lettuce and thing. and so that be all right best beloved. do you see. 
but also and at the same time in those high and far off time there be a paint jaguar and he live on the bank of the turbid amazon too. and he eat everything that he could catch. when he could not catch deer or monkey he would eat frog and beetle. and when he could not catch frog and beetle he go to his mother jaguar and she tell him how to eat hedgehog and tortoise. 
she say to him ever so many time graciously wave her tail my son when you find a hedgehog you must drop him into the water and then he will uncoil and when you catch a tortoise you must scoop him out of his shell with your paw. and so that be all right best beloved. 
one beautiful night on the bank of the turbid amazon paint jaguar find stickly prickly hedgehog and slow solid tortoise sit under the trunk of a fall tree. they could not run away and so stickly prickly curl himself up into a ball because he be a hedgehog and slow solid tortoise draw in his head and foot into his shell a far a they would go because he be a tortoise. and so that be all right best beloved. do you see. 
now attend to me say paint jaguar because this be very important. my mother say that when i meet a hedgehog i be to drop him into the water and then he will uncoil and when i meet a tortoise i be to scoop him out of his shell with my paw. now which of you be hedgehog and which be tortoise. because to save my spot i can t tell. 
be you sure of what your mummy tell you. say stickly prickly hedgehog. be you quite sure. perhaps she say that when you uncoil a tortoise you must shell him out the water with a scoop and when you paw a hedgehog you must drop him on the shell. 
be you sure of what your mummy tell you. say slow and solid tortoise. be you quite sure. perhaps she say that when you water a hedgehog you must drop him into your paw and when you meet a tortoise you must shell him till he uncoil. 
i don t think it be at all like that say paint jaguar but he felt a little puzzle. but please say it again more distinctly. 
when you scoop water with your paw you uncoil it with a hedgehog say stickly prickly. remember that because it s important. 
but say the tortoise when you paw your meat you drop it into a tortoise with a scoop. why can t you understand. 
you be make my spot ache say paint jaguar. and besides i didn t want your advice at all. i only want to know which of you be hedgehog and which be tortoise. 
i shan t tell you say stickly prickly but you can scoop me out of my shell if you like. 
aha. say paint jaguar. now i know you re tortoise. you think i wouldn t. now i will. paint jaguar dart out his paddy paw just a stickly prickly curl himself up and of course jaguar s paddy paw be just fill with prickle. bad than that he knock stickly prickly away and away into the wood and the bush where it be too dark to find him. then he put his paddy paw into his mouth and of course the prickle hurt him bad than ever. a soon a he could speak he say now i know he isn t tortoise at all. but and then he scratch his head with his un prickly paw how do i know that this other be tortoise. 
but i be tortoise say slow and solid. your mother be quite right. she say that you be to scoop me out of my shell with your paw. begin. 
you didn t say she say that a minute ago say paint jaguar suck the prickle out of his paddy paw. you say she say something quite different. 
well suppose you say that i say that she say something quite different i don t see that it make any difference. because if she say what you say i say she say it s just the same a if i say what she say she say. on the other hand if you think she say that you be to uncoil me with a scoop instead of paw me into drop with a shell i can t help that can i. 
but you say you want to be scoop out of your shell with my paw say paint jaguar. 
if you ll think again you ll find that i didn t say anything of the kind. i say that your mother say that you be to scoop me out of my shell say slow and solid. 
what will happen if i do. say the jaguar most sniffily and most cautious. 
i don t know because i ve never be scoop out of my shell before. but i tell you truly if you want to see me swim away you ve only get to drop me into the water. 
i don t believe it say paint jaguar. you ve mix up all the thing my mother tell me to do with the thing that you ask me whether i be sure that she didn t say till i don t know whether i m on my head or my paint tail. and now you come and tell me something i can understand and it make me more mixy than before. my mother tell me that i be to drop one of you two into the water and a you seem so anxious to be drop i think you don t want to be drop. so jump into the turbid amazon and be quick about it. 
i warn you that your mummy win t be please. don t tell her i didn t tell you say slow solid. 
if you say another word about what my mother say the jaguar answer but he have not finish the sentence before slow and solid quietly dive into the turbid amazon swim under water for a long way and come out on the bank where stickly prickly be wait for him. 
that be a very narrow escape say stickly prickly. i don t rib paint jaguar. what do you tell him that you be. 
i tell him truthfully that i be a truthful tortoise but he wouldn t believe it and he make me jump into the river to see if i be and i be and he be surprise. now he s go to tell his mummy. listen to him. 
they could hear paint jaguar roar up and down among the tree and the bush by the side of the turbid amazon till his mummy come. 
son son. say his mother ever so many time graciously wave her tail what have you be do that you shouldn t have do. 
i try to scoop something that say it want to be scoop out of it shell with my paw and my paw be full of per ickles say paint jaguar. 
son son. say his mother ever so many time graciously wave her tail by the prickle in your paddy paw i see that that must have be a hedgehog. you should have drop him into the water. 
i do that to the other thing. and he say he be a tortoise and i didn t believe him and it be quite true and he ha dive under the turbid amazon and he win t come up again and i haven t anything at all to eat and i think we have good find lodging somewhere else. they be too clever on the turbid amazon for poor me. 
son son. say his mother ever so many time graciously wave her tail now attend to me and remember what i say. a hedgehog curl himself up into a ball and his prickle stick out every which way at once. by this you may know the hedgehog. 
i don t like this old lady one little bite say stickly prickly under the shadow of a large leaf. i wonder what else she know. 
a tortoise can t curl himself up mother jaguar go on ever so many time graciously wave her tail. he only draw his head and leg into his shell. by this you may know the tortoise. 
i don t like this old lady at all at all say slow and solid tortoise. even paint jaguar can t forget those direction. it s a great pity that you can t swim stickly prickly. 
don t talk to me say stickly prickly. just think how much good it would be if you could curl up. this be a mess. listen to paint jaguar. 
paint jaguar be sit on the bank of the turbid amazon suck prickle out of his paw and say to himself. 
can t curl but can swim slow solid that s him. curl up but can t swim stickly prickly that s him. 
he ll never forget that this month of sunday say stickly prickly. hold up my chin slow and solid. i m go to try to learn to swim. it may be useful. 
excellent. say slow and solid. and he hold up stickly prickly s chin while stickly prickly kick in the water of the turbid amazon. 
you ll make a fine swimmer yet say slow and solid. now if you can unlace my back plate a little i ll see what i can do towards curl up. it may be useful. 
stickly prickly help to unlace tortoise s back plate so that by twist and strain slow and solid actually manage to curl up a tiddy wee bite. 
excellent. say stickly prickly. but i shouldn t do any more just now. it s make you black in the face. kindly lead me into the water once again and i ll practice that side stroke which you say be so easy. and so stickly prickly practice and slow solid swim alongside. 
excellent. say slow and solid. a little more practice will make you a regular whale. now if i may trouble you to unlace my back and front plate two hole more i ll try that fascinate bend that you say be so easy. win t paint jaguar be surprise. 
excellent. say stickly prickly all wet from the turbid amazon. i declare i shouldn t know you from one of my own family. two hole i think you say. a little more expression please and don t grunt quite so much or paint jaguar may hear u. when you ve finish i want to try that long dive which you say be so easy. win t paint jaguar be surprise. 
and so stickly prickly dive and slow and solid dive alongside. 
excellent. say slow and solid. a leetle more attention to hold your breath and you will be able to keep house at the bottom of the turbid amazon. now i ll try that exercise of put my hind leg round my ear which you say be so peculiarly comfortable. win t paint jaguar be surprise. 
excellent. say stickly prickly. but it s strain your back plate a little. they be all overlap now instead of lie side by side. 
oh that s the result of exercise say slow and solid. i ve notice that your prickle seem to be melt into one another and that you re grow to look rather more like a pinecone and le like a chestnut burr than you use to. 
be i. say stickly prickly. that come from my soak in the water. oh win t paint jaguar be surprise. 
they go on with their exercise each help the other till morning come. and when the sun be high they rest and dry themselves. then they saw that they be both of them quite different from what they have be. 
stickly prickly say tortoise after breakfast i be not what i be yesterday. but i think that i may yet amuse paint jaguar. 
that be the very thing i be think just now say stickly prickly. i think scale be a tremendous improvement on prickle to say nothing of be able to swim. oh win t paint jaguar be surprise. let s go and find him. 
by and by they find paint jaguar still nurse his paddy paw that have be hurt the night before. he be so astonish that he fell three time backward over his own paint tail without stop. 
good morning. say stickly prickly. and how be your dear gracious mummy this morning. 
she be quite well thank you say paint jaguar. but you must forgive me if i do not at this precise moment recall your name. 
that s unkind of you say stickly prickly see that this time yesterday you try to scoop me out of my shell with your paw. 
but you hadn t any shell. it be all prickle say paint jaguar. i know it be. just look at my paw. 
you tell me to drop into the turbid amazon and be drown say slow solid. why be you so rude and forgetful to day. 
don t you remember what your mother tell you. say stickly prickly. 
can t curl but can swim stickly prickly that s him. curl up but can t swim slow solid that s him. 
then they both curl themselves up and roll round and round paint jaguar till his eye turn truly cart wheel in his head. 
then he go to fetch his mother. 
mother he say there be two new animal in the wood to day and the one that you say couldn t swim swim and the one that you say couldn t curl up curl. and they ve go share in their prickle i think because both of them be scaly all over instead of one be smooth and the other very prickly. and besides that they be roll round and round in circle and i don t feel comfy. 
son son. say mother jaguar ever so many time graciously wave her tail a hedgehog be a hedgehog and can t be anything but a hedgehog. and a tortoise be a tortoise and can never be anything else. 
but it isn t a hedgehog and it isn t a tortoise. it s a little bite of both and i don t know it proper name. 
nonsense. say mother jaguar. everything ha it proper name. i should call it armadillo till i find out the real one. and i should leave it alone. 
so paint jaguar do a he be tell especially about leave them alone. but the curious thing be that from that day to this o best beloved no one on the bank of the turbid amazon ha ever call stickly prickly and slow solid anything except armadillo. there be hedgehog and tortoise in other place of course. there be some in my garden. but the real old and clever kind with their scale lie lippety lappety one over the other like pine cone scale that live on the bank of the turbid amazon in the high and far off day be always call armadillo because they be so clever. 
so that. all right best beloved. do you see. 
i ve never sail the amazon i ve never reach brazil. but the don and magdelana they can go there when they will. 
yes weekly from southampton great steamer white and gold go roll down to rio. roll down roll down to rio. and i d like to roll to rio some day before i m old. 
i ve never see a jaguar nor yet an armadill o dilloing in his armour and i s pose i never will. 
unless i go to rio these wonder to behold roll down roll down to rio roll really down to rio. oh i d love to roll to rio some day before i m old. 
how the first letter be write. 
once upon a most early time be a neolithic man. he be not a jute or an angle or even a dravidian which he might well have be best beloved but never mind why. he be a primitive and he live cavily in a cave and he wear very few clothe and he couldn t read and he couldn t write and he didn t want to and except when he be hungry he be quite happy. his name be tegumai bopsulai and that mean man who doe not put his foot forward in a hurry. but we o best beloved will call him tegumai for short. and his wife s name be teshumai tewindrow and that mean lady who ask a very many question. but we o best beloved will call her teshumai for short. and his little girl daughter s name be taffimai metallumai and that mean small person without any manner who ought to be spank. but i m go to call her taffy. and she be tegumai bopsulai s best beloved and her own mummy s best beloved and she be not spank half a much a be good for her. and they be all three very happy. a soon a taffy could run about she go everywhere with her daddy tegumai and sometimes they would not come home to the cave till they be hungry and then teshumai tewindrow would say where in the world have you two be to to get so shock dirty. really my tegumai you re no good than my taffy. 
now attend and listen. 
one day tegumai bopsulai go down through the beaver swamp to the wagai river to spear carp fish for dinner and taffy go too. tegumai s spear be make of wood with shark s teeth at the end and before he have catch any fish at all he accidentally break it clean across by jab it down too hard on the bottom of the river. they be mile and mile from home. of course they have their lunch with them in a little bag. and tegumai have forget to bring any extra spear. 
here s a pretty kettle of fish. say tegumai. it will take me half the day to mend this. 
there s your big black spear at home say taffy. let me run back to the cave and ask mummy to give it me. 
it s too far for your little fat leg say tegumai. besides you might fall into the beaver swamp and be drown. we must make the best of a bad job. he sit down and take out a little leather mendy bag full of reindeer sinew and strip of leather and lump of bee s wax and resin and begin to mend the spear. 
taffy sit down too with her toe in the water and her chin in her hand and think very hard. then she say i say daddy it s an awful nuisance that you and i don t know how to write isn t it. if we do we could send a message for the new spear. 
taffy say tegumai how often have i tell you not to use slang. awful isn t a pretty word but it could be a convenience now you mention it if we could write home. 
just then a strange man come along the river but he belong to a far tribe the tewaras and he do not understand one word of tegumai s language. he stand on the bank and smile at taffy because he have a little girl daughter of his own at home. tegumai draw a hank of deer sinew from his mendy bag and begin to mend his spear. 
come here say taffy. do you know where my mummy life. and the strange man say um. be a you know a tewara. 
silly. say taffy and she stamp her foot because she saw a shoal of very big carp go up the river just when her daddy couldn t use his spear. 
don t bother grow up say tegumai so busy with his spear mend that he do not turn round. 
i aren t say taffy. i only want him to do what i want him to do and he win t understand. 
then don t bother me say tegumai and he go on pull and strain at the deer sinew with his mouth full of loose end. the strange man a genuine tewara he be sit down on the grass and taffy show him what her daddy be do. the strange man think this be a very wonderful child. she stamp her foot at me and she make face. she must be the daughter of that noble chief who be so great that he win t take any notice of me. so he smile more politely than ever. 
now say taffy i want you to go to my mummy because your leg be long than mine and you win t fall into the beaver swamp and ask for daddy s other spear the one with the black handle that hang over our fireplace. 
the strange man. and he be a tewara. think this be a very very wonderful child. she wave her arm and she shout at me but i don t understand a word of what she say. but if i don t do what she want i greatly fear that that haughty chief man who turn his back on caller will be angry. he get up and twist a big flat piece of bark off a birch tree and give it to taffy. he do this best beloved to show that his heart be a white a the birch bark and that he mean no harm. but taffy didn t quite understand. 
oh. say she. now i see. you want my mummy s live address. of course i can t write but i can draw picture if i ve anything sharp to scratch with. please lend me the shark s tooth off your necklace. 
the strange man. and he be a tewara. didn t say anything so taffy put up her little hand and pull at the beautiful bead and seed and shark tooth necklace round his neck. 
the strange man. and he be a tewara. think this be a very very very wonderful child. the shark s tooth on my necklace be a magic shark s tooth and i be always tell that if anybody touch it without my leave they would immediately swell up or burst but this child doesn t swell up or burst and that important chief man who attend strictly to his business who ha not yet take any notice of me at all doesn t seem to be afraid that she will swell up or burst. i have good be more polite. 
so he give taffy the shark s tooth and she lay down flat on her tummy with her leg in the air like some people on the draw room floor when they want to draw picture and she say now i ll draw you some beautiful picture. you can look over my shoulder but you mustn t joggle. first i ll draw daddy fish. it isn t very like him. but mummy will know because i ve draw his spear all break. well now i ll draw the other spear that he want the black handle spear. it look a if it be stick in daddy s back but that s because the shark s tooth slip and this piece of bark isn t big enough. that s the spear i want you to fetch. so i ll draw a picture of me myself splaining to you. my hair doesn t stand up like i ve draw but it s easy to draw that way. now i ll draw you. i think you re very nice really but i can t make you pretty in the picture so you mustn t be fend. be you fend. 
the strange man. and he be a tewara. smile. he think there must be a big battle go to be fight somewhere and this extraordinary child who take my magic shark s tooth but who doe not swell up or burst be tell me to call all the great chief s tribe to help him. he be a great chief or he would have notice me. 
look say taffy draw very hard and rather scratchily now i ve draw you and i ve put the spear that daddy want into your hand just to remind you that you re to bring it. now i ll show you how to find my mummy s live address. you go along till you come to two tree. those be tree. and then you go over a hill. that s a hill. and then you come into a beaver swamp all full of beaver. i haven t put in all the beaver because i can t draw beaver but i ve draw their head and that s all you ll see of them when you cross the swamp. mind you don t fall in. then our cave be just beyond the beaver swamp. it isn t a high a the hill really but i can t draw thing very small. that s my mummy outside. she be beautiful. she be the most beautifullest mummy there ever be but she win t be fend when she see i ve draw her so plain. she ll be please of me because i can draw. now in case you forget i ve draw the spear that daddy want outside our cave. it s inside really but you show the picture to my mummy and she ll give it you. i ve make her hold up her hand because i know she ll be so please to see you. isn t it a beautiful picture. and do you quite understand or shall i splain again. 
the strange man. and he be a tewara. look at the picture and nod very hard. he say to himself if i do not fetch this great chief s tribe to help him he will be slay by his enemy who be come up on all side with spear. now i see why the great chief pretend not to notice me. he fear that his enemy be hide in the bush and would see him. therefore he turn to me his back and let the wise and wonderful child draw the terrible picture show me his difficulty. i will away and get help for him from his tribe. he do not even ask taffy the road but race off into the bush like the wind with the birch bark in his hand and taffy sit down most please. 
now this be the picture that taffy have draw for him. 
what have you be do taffy. say tegumai. he have mend his spear and be carefully wave it to and fro. 
it s a little berangement of my own daddy dear say taffy. if you win t ask me question you ll know all about it in a little time and you ll be surprise. you don t know how surprise you ll be daddy. promise you ll be surprise. 
very well say tegumai and go on fish. 
the strange man do you know he be a tewara. hurry away with the picture and run for some mile till quite by accident he find teshumai tewindrow at the door of her cave talk to some other neolithic lady who have come in to a primitive lunch. taffy be very like teshumai especially about the upper part of the face and the eye so the strange man always a pure tewara smile politely and hand teshumai the birch bark. he have run hard so that he pant and his leg be scratch with bramble but he still try to be polite. 
a soon a teshumai saw the picture she scream like anything and fly at the strange man. the other neolithic lady at once knock him down and sit on him in a long line of six while teshumai pull his hair. 
it s a plain a the nose on this strange man s face she say. he ha stick my tegumai all full of spear and frighten poor taffy so that her hair stand all on end. and not content with that he bring me a horrid picture of how it be do. look. she show the picture to all the neolithic lady sit patiently on the strange man. here be my tegumai with his arm break. here be a spear stick into his back. here be a man with a spear ready to throw. here be another man throw a spear from a cave and here be a whole pack of people. they be taffy s beaver really but they do look rather like people. come up behind tegumai. isn t it shock. 
most shock. say the neolithic lady and they fill the strange man s hair with mud. at which he be surprise. and they beat upon the reverberate tribal drum and call together all the chief of the tribe of tegumai with their hetmans and dolman all negus woons and akhoonds of the organisation in addition to the warlock angekoks juju men bonzes and the rest who decide that before they chop the strange man s head off he should instantly lead them down to the river and show them where he have hide poor taffy. 
by this time the strange man. in spite of be a tewara. be really annoy. they have fill his hair quite solid with mud. they have roll him up and down on knobby pebble. they have sit upon him in a long line of six. they have thump him and bump him till he could hardly breathe. and though he do not understand their language he be almost sure that the name the neolithic lady call him be not ladylike. however he say nothing till all the tribe of tegumai be assemble and then he lead them back to the bank of the wagai river and there they find taffy make daisy chain and tegumai carefully spear small carp with his mend spear. 
well you have be quick. say taffy. but why do you bring so many people. daddy dear this be my surprise. be you surprise daddy. 
very say tegumai. but it ha ruin all my fish for the day. why the whole dear kind nice clean quiet tribe be here taffy. 
and so they be. first of all walk teshumai tewindrow and the neolithic lady tightly hold on to the strange man whose hair be full of mud. although he be a tewara. behind them come the head chief the vice chief the deputy and assistant chief. all arm to the upper teeth. the hetmans and head of hundred platoffs with their platoon and dolman with their detachment. woons negus and akhoonds rank in the rear. still arm to the teeth. behind them be the tribe in hierarchical order from owner of four cave. one for each season. a private reindeer run and two salmon leap to feudal and prognathous villein semi entitle to half a bearskin of winter night seven yard from the fire and adscript serf hold the reversion of a scrap marrow bone under heriot. aren t those beautiful word best beloved. they be all there prance and shout and they frighten every fish for twenty mile and tegumai thank them in a fluid neolithic oration. 
then teshumai tewindrow run down and kiss and hug taffy very much indeed. but the head chief of the tribe of tegumai take tegumai by the top knot feather and shake him severely. 
explain. explain. explain. cry all the tribe of tegumai. 
goodness sake alive. say tegumai. let go of my top knot. can t a man break his carp spear without the whole countryside descend on him. you re a very interfere people. 
i don t believe you ve bring my daddy s black handle spear after all say taffy. and what be you do to my nice strange man. 
they be thump him by two and three and ten till his eye turn round and round. he could only gasp and point at taffy. 
where be the bad people who spear you my darling. say teshumai tewindrow. 
there weren t any say tegumai. my only visitor this morning be the poor fellow that you be try to choke. aren t you well or be you ill o tribe of tegumai. 
he come with a horrible picture say the head chief a picture that show you be full of spear. 
er um pr aps i d good splain that i give him that picture say taffy but she do not feel quite comfy. 
you. say the tribe of tegumai all together. small person with no manner who ought to be spank. you. 
taffy dear i m afraid we re in for a little trouble say her daddy and put his arm round her so she didn t care. 
explain. explain. explain. say the head chief of the tribe of tegumai and he hop on one foot. 
i want the strange man to fetch daddy s spear so i drawded it say taffy. there wasn t lot of spear. there be only one spear. i drawded it three time to make sure. i couldn t help it look a if it stick into daddy s head there wasn t room on the birch bark. and those thing that mummy call bad people be my beaver. i drawded them to show him the way through the swamp. and i drawded mummy at the mouth of the cave look please because he be a nice strange man and i think you be just the stupid people in the world say taffy. he be a very nice man. why have you fill his hair with mud. wash him. 
nobody say anything at all for a longtime till the head chief laugh. then the strange man. who be at least a tewara. laugh. then tegumai laugh till he fell down flat on the bank. then all the tribe laugh more and bad and loud. the only people who do not laugh be teshumai tewindrow and all the neolithic lady. they be very polite to all their husband and say idiot. ever so often. 
then the head chief of the tribe of tegumai cry and say and sing o small person with out any manner who ought to be spank you ve hit upon a great invention. 
i didn t intend to. i only want daddy s black handle spear say taffy. 
never mind. it be a great invention and some day men will call it write. at present it be only picture and a we have see to day picture be not always properly understand. but a time will come o babe of tegumai when we shall make letter all twenty six of em and when we shall be able to read a well a to write and then we shall always say exactly what we mean without any mistake. let the neolithic lady wash the mud out of the strange s hair. 
i shall be glad of that say taffy because after all though you ve bring every single other spear in the tribe of tegumai you ve forget my daddy s black handle spear. 
then the head chief cry and say and sing taffy dear the next time you write a picture letter you d good send a man who can talk our language with it to explain what it mean. i don t mind it myself because i be a head chief but it s very bad for the rest of the tribe of tegumai and a you can see it surprise the strange. 
then they adopt the strange man. a genuine tewara of tewar. into the tribe of tegumai because he be a gentleman and do not make a fuss about the mud that the neolithic lady have put into his hair. but from that day to this. and i suppose it be all taffy s fault. very few little girl have ever like learn to read or write. most of them prefer to draw picture and play about with their daddy just like taffy. 
there run a road by merrow down a grassy track to day it be an hour out of guildford town above the river wey it be. 
here when they hear the horse bell ring the ancient briton dress and ride to watch the dark phoenician bring their good along the western road. 
and here or hereabouts they meet to hold their racial talk and such to barter bead for whitby jet and tin for gay shell torque and such. 
but long and long before that time. when bison use to roam on it. do taffy and her daddy climb that down and have their home on it. 
then beaver build in broadstone brook and make a swamp where bramley stand. and hear from shere would come and look for taffimai where shamley stand. 
the wey that taffy call wagai be more than six time big then. and all the tribe of tegumai they cut a noble figure then. 
how the alphabet be make. 
the week after taffimai metallumai. we will still call her taffy best beloved. make that little mistake about her daddy s spear and the strange man and the picture letter and all she go carp fish again with her daddy. her mummy want her to stay at home and help hang up hide to dry on the big dry pole outside their neolithic cave but taffy slip away down to her daddy quite early and they fish. presently she begin to giggle and her daddy say don t be silly child. 
but wasn t it incite. say taffy. don t you remember how the head chief puff out his cheek and how funny the nice strange man look with the mud in his hair. 
well do i say tegumai. i have to pay two deerskin soft one with fringe to the strange man for the thing we do to him. 
we didn t do anything say taffy. it be mummy and the other neolithic lady and the mud. 
we win t talk about that say her daddy let s have lunch. 
taffy take a marrow bone and sit mousy quiet for ten whole minute while her daddy scratch on piece of birch bark with a shark s tooth. then she say daddy i ve think of a secret surprise. you make a noise any sort of noise. 
ah. say tegumai. will that do to begin with. 
yes say taffy. you look just like a carp fish with it mouth open. say it again please. 
ah. ah. ah. say her daddy. don t be rude my daughter. 
i m not mean rude really and truly say taffy. it s part of my secret surprise think. do say ah daddy and keep your mouth open at the end and lend me that tooth. i m go to draw a carp fish s mouth wide open. 
what for. say her daddy. 
don t you see. say taffy scratch away on the bark. that will be our little secret s prise. when i draw a carp fish with his mouth open in the smoke at the back of our cave if mummy doesn t mind it will remind you of that ah noise. then we can play that it be me jump out of the dark and s prise you with that noise same a i do in the beaver swamp last winter. 
really. say her daddy in the voice that grow up use when they be truly attend. go on taffy. 
oh bother. she say. i can t draw all of a carp fish but i can draw something that mean a carp fish s mouth. don t you know how they stand on their head root in the mud. well here s a pretence carp fish. we can play that the rest of him be draw. here s just his mouth and that mean ah. and she draw this. 
that s not bad say tegumai and scratch on his own piece of bark for himself. but you ve forget the feeler that hang across his mouth. 
but i can t draw daddy. 
you needn t draw anything of him except just the open of his mouth and the feeler across. then we ll know he s a carp fish cause the perch and trout haven t get feeler. look here taffy. and he draw this. 
now i ll copy it. say taffy. will you understand this when you see it. 
perfectly say her daddy. 
and she draw this. and i ll be quite a s prise when i see it anywhere a if you have jump out from behind a tree and say ah. 
now make another noise say taffy very proud. 
yah. say her daddy very loud. 
h m say taffy. that s a mixy noise. the end part be ah carp fish mouth. but what can we do about the front part. yer yer yer and ah. ya. 
it s very like the carp fish mouth noise. let s draw another bite of the carp fish and join em say her daddy. he be quite incite too. 
no. if they re join i ll forget. draw it separate. draw his tail. if he s stand on his head the tail will come first. side i think i can draw tail easy say taffy. 
a good notion say tegumai. here s a carp fish tail for the yer noise. and he draw this. 
i ll try now say taffy. member i can t draw like you daddy. will it do if i just draw the split part of the tail and the sticky down line for where it join. and she draw this. 
her daddy nod and his eye be shiny bright with citement. 
that s beautiful she say. now make another noise daddy. 
oh. say her daddy very loud. 
that s quite easy say taffy. you make your mouth all around like an egg or a stone. so an egg or a stone will do for that. 
you can t always find egg or stone. we ll have to scratch a round something like one. and he draw this. 
my gracious. say taffy what a lot of noise picture we ve make carp mouth carp tail and egg. now make another noise daddy. 
ssh. say her daddy and frown to himself but taffy be too incite to notice. 
that s quite easy she say scratch on the bark. 
eh what. say her daddy. i mean i be think and didn t want to be disturb. 
it s a noise just the same. it s the noise a snake make daddy when it be think and doesn t want to be disturb. let s make the ssh noise a snake. will this do. and she draw this. 
there she say. that s another s prise secret. when you draw a hissy snake by the door of your little back cave where you mend the spear i ll know you re think hard. and i ll come in most mousy quiet. and if you draw it on a tree by the river when you be fish i ll know you want me to walk most most mousy quiet so a not to shake the bank. 
perfectly true say tegumai. and there s more in this game than you think. taffy dear i ve a notion that your daddy s daughter ha hit upon the fine thing that there ever be since the tribe of tegumai take to use shark s teeth instead of flint for their spear head. i believe we ve find out the big secret of the world. 
why. say taffy and her eye shine too with incitement. 
i ll show say her daddy. what s water in the tegumai language. 
ya of course and it mean river too like wagai ya the wagai river. 
what be bad water that give you fever if you drink it black water swamp water. 
yo of course. 
now look say her daddy. s pose you saw this scratch by the side of a pool in the beaver swamp. and he draw this. 
carp tail and round egg. two noise mix. yo bad water say taffy. course i wouldn t drink that water because i d know you say it be bad. 
but i needn t be near the water at all. i might be mile away hunt and still. 
and still it would be just the same a if you stand there and say g way taffy or you ll get fever. all that in a carp fish tail and a round egg. o daddy we must tell mummy quick. and taffy dance all round him. 
not yet say tegumai. not till we ve go a little further. let s see. yo be bad water but so be food cook on the fire isn t it. and he draw this. 
yes. snake and egg say taffy so that mean dinner s ready. if you saw that scratch on a tree you d know it be time to come to the cave. so d i. 
my winkie. say tegumai. that s true too. but wait a minute. i see a difficulty. so mean come and have dinner but sho mean the dry pole where we hang our hide. 
horrid old dry pole. say taffy. i hate help to hang heavy hot hairy hide on them. if you draw the snake and egg and i think it mean dinner and i come in from the wood and find that it mean i be to help mummy hang the two hide on the dry pole what would i do. 
you d be cross. so d mummy. we must make a new picture for sho. we must draw a spotty snake that hiss sh sh and we ll play that the plain snake only hiss sss. 
i couldn t be sure how to put in the spot say taffy. and p rap if you be in a hurry you might leave them out and i d think it be so when it be sho and then mummy would catch me just the same. no. i think we d good draw a picture of the horrid high dry pole their very self and make quite sure. i ll put them in just after the hissy snake. look. and she draw this. 
p rap that s safe. it s very like our dry pole anyhow say her daddy laugh. now i ll make a new noise with a snake and dry pole sound in it. i ll say shi. that s tegumai for spear taffy. and he laugh. 
don t make fun of me say taffy a she think of her picture letter and the mud in the strange man s hair. you draw it daddy. 
we win t have beaver or hill this time eh. say her daddy i ll just draw a straight line for my spear. and he draw this. 
even mummy couldn t mistake that for me be kill. 
please don t daddy. it make me uncomfy. do some more noise. we re get on beautifully. 
er hm. say tegumai look up. we ll say shu. that mean sky. 
taffy draw the snake and the dry pole. then she stop. we must make a new picture for that end sound mustn t we. 
shu shu u u u. say her daddy. why it s just like the round egg sound make thin. 
then s pose we draw a thin round egg and pretend it s a frog that hasn t eat anything for year. 
n no say her daddy. if we draw that in a hurry we might mistake it for the round egg itself. shu shu shu. i tell you what we ll do. we ll open a little hole at the end of the round egg to show how the o noise run out all thin ooo oo oo. like this. and he draw this. 
oh that s lovely. much good than a thin frog. go on say taffy use her shark s tooth. her daddy go on draw and his hand shake with incitement. he go on till he have draw this. 
don t look up taffy he say. try if you can make out what that mean in the tegumai language. if you can we ve find the secret. 
snake pole break egg carp tail and carp mouth say taffy. shu ya. sky water. rain. just then a drop fell on her hand for the day have cloud over. why daddy it s rain. be that what you mean to tell me. 
of course say her daddy. and i tell it you without say a word didn t i. 
well i think i would have know it in a minute but that raindrop make me quite sure. i ll always remember now. shu ya mean rain or it be go to rain. why daddy. she get up and dance round him. s pose you go out before i be awake and draw shu ya in the smoke on the wall i d know it be go to rain and i d take my beaver skin hood. wouldn t mummy be surprise. 
tegumai get up and dance. daddy didn t mind do those thing in those day. more than that. more than that. he say. s pose i want to tell you it wasn t go to rain much and you must come down to the river what would we draw. say the word in tegumai talk first. 
shu ya la ya maru. sky water end. river come to. what a lot of new sound. i don t see how we can draw them. 
but i do but i do. say tegumai. just attend a minute taffy and we win t do any more to day. we ve get shu ya all right haven t we. but this la be a teaser. la la la and he wave his shark tooth. 
there s the hissy snake at the end and the carp mouth before the snake a a a. we only want la la say taffy. 
i know it but we have to make la la. and we re the first people in all the world who ve ever try to do it taffimai. 
well say taffy yawn for she be rather tire. la mean break or finish a well a end doesn t it. 
so it doe say tegumai. to la mean that there s no water in the tank for mummy to cook with just when i m go hunt too. 
and shi la mean that your spear be break. if i d only think of that instead of draw silly beaver picture for the strange. 
la. la. la. say tegumai waive his stick and frown. oh bother. 
i could have draw shi quite easily taffy go on. then i d have draw your spear all break this way. and she draw. 
the very thing say tegumai. that s la all over. it isn t like any of the other mark either. and he draw this. 
now for ya. oh we ve do that before. now for maru. mum mum mum. mum shut one s mouth up doesn t it. we ll draw a shut mouth like this. and he draw. 
then the carp mouth open. that make ma ma ma. but what about this rrrrr thing taffy. 
it sound all rough and edgy like your shark tooth saw when you re cut out a plank for the canoe say taffy. 
you mean all sharp at the edge like this. say tegumai. and he draw. 
xactly say taffy. but we don t want all those teeth. only put two. 
i ll only put in one say tegumai. if this game of ours be go to be what i think it will the easy we make our sound picture the good for everybody. and he draw. 
now we ve get it say tegumai stand on one leg. i ll draw em all in a string like fish. 
hadn t we good put a little bite of stick or something between each word so s they win t rub up against each other and jostle same a if they be carp. 
oh i ll leave a space for that say her daddy. and very incitedly he draw them all without stop on a big new bite of birch bark. 
shu ya la ya maru say taffy read it out sound by sound. 
that s enough for to day say tegumai. besides you re get tire taffy. never mind dear. we ll finish it all to morrow and then we ll be remember for year and year after the big tree you can see be all chop up for firewood. 
so they go home and all that even tegumai sit on one side of the fire and taffy on the other draw ya s and yo s and shu s and shi s in the smoke on the wall and giggle together till her mummy say really tegumai you re bad than my taffy. 
please don t mind say taffy. it s only our secret s prise mummy dear and we ll tell you all about it the very minute it s do. but please don t ask me what it be now or else i ll have to tell. 
so her mummy most carefully didn t. and bright and early next morning tegumai go down to the river to think about new sound picture and when taffy get up she saw ya la. water be end or run out. chalk on the side of the big stone water tank outside the cave. 
um say taffy. these picture sound be rather a bother. daddy s just a good a come here himself and tell me to get more water for mummy to cook with. she go to the spring at the back of the house and fill the tank from a bark bucket and then she run down to the river and pull her daddy s leave ear the one that belong to her to pull when she be good. 
now come along and we ll draw all the leave over sound picture say her daddy and they have a most incite day of it and a beautiful lunch in the middle and two game of romp. when they come to t taffy say that a her name and her daddy s and her mummy s all begin with that sound they should draw a sort of family group of themselves hold hand. that be all very well to draw once or twice. but when it come to draw it six or seven time taffy and tegumai draw it scratchier and scratchier till at last the t sound be only a thin long tegumai with his arm out to hold taffy and teshumai. you can see from these three picture partly how it happen. 
many of the other picture be much too beautiful to begin with especially before lunch but a they be draw over and over again on birch bark they become plain and easy till at last even tegumai say he could find no fault with them. they turn the hissy snake the other way round for the z sound to show it be hiss backwards in a soft and gentle way. and they just make a twiddle for e because it come into the picture so often. and they draw picture of the sacred beaver of the tegumais for the b sound. and because it be a nasty nosy noise they just draw nose for the n sound till they be tire. and they draw a picture of the big lake pike s mouth for the greedy ga sound. and they draw the pike s mouth again with a spear behind it for the scratchy hurty ka sound. and they draw picture of a little bite of the wind wagai river for the nice windy windy wa sound. and so on and so forth and so follow till they have do and draw all the sound picture that they want and there be the alphabet all complete. 
and after thousand and thousand and thousand of year and after hieroglyphic and demotic and nilotic and cryptics and cufics and runics and doric and ionic and all sort of other rick and trick. because the woons and the negus and the akhoonds and the repository of tradition would never leave a good thing alone when they saw it. the fine old easy understandable alphabet a b c d e and the rest of em get back into it proper shape again for all best beloved to learn when they be old enough. 
but i remember tegumai bopsulai and taffimai metallumai and teshumai tewindrow her dear mummy and all the day go by. and it be so just so a little time ago on the bank of the big wagai. 
of all the tribe of tegumai who cut that figure none remain on merrow down the cuckoo cry the silence and the sun remain. 
but a the faithful year return and heart unwounded sing again come taffy dance through the fern to lead the surrey spring again. 
her brow be bind with bracken frond and golden elf lock fly above. her eye be bright a diamond and blue than the sky above. 
in mocassin and deer skin cloak unfearing free and fair she flit and light her little damp wood smoke to show her daddy where she flit. 
for far oh very far behind so far she cannot call to him come tegumai alone to find the daughter that be all to him. 
the crab that play with the sea. 
before the high and far off time o my best beloved come the time of the very beginning. and that be in the day when the eldest magician be get thing ready. first he get the earth ready. then he get the sea ready. and then he tell all the animal that they could come out and play. and the animal say o eldest magician what shall we play at. and he say i will show you. he take the elephant all the elephant there be and say play at be an elephant and all the elephant there be play. he take the beaver all the beaver there be and say play at be a beaver and all the beaver there be play. he take the cow all the cow there be and say play at be a cow and all the cow there be play. he take the turtle all the turtle there be and say play at be a turtle and all the turtle there be play. one by one he take all the beast and bird and fish and tell them what to play at. 
but towards even when people and thing grow restless and tire there come up the man. with his own little girl daughter. yes with his own best beloved little girl daughter sit upon his shoulder and he say what be this play eldest magician. and the eldest magician say ho son of adam this be the play of the very begin. but you be too wise for this play. and the man salute and say yes i be too wise for this play. but see that you make all the animal obedient to me. 
now while the two be talk together pau amma the crab who be next in the game scuttle off sideways and step into the sea say to himself i will play my play alone in the deep water and i will never be obedient to this son of adam. nobody saw him go away except the little girl daughter where she lean on the man s shoulder. and the play go on till there be no more animal leave without order. and the eldest magician wipe the fine dust off his hand and walk about the world to see how the animal be play. 
he go north best beloved and he find all the elephant there be dig with his tusk and stamp with his foot in the nice new clean earth that have be make ready for him. 
kun. say all the elephant there be mean be this right. 
payah kun say the eldest magician mean that be quite right. and he breathe upon the great rock and lump of earth that all the elephant there be have throw up and they become the great himalayan mountain and you can look them out on the map. 
he go east and he find all the cow there be feed in the field that have be make ready for her and she lick her tongue round a whole forest at a time and swallow it and sit down to chew her cud. 
kun. say all the cow there be. 
payah kun say the eldest magician. and he breathe upon the bare patch where she have eat and upon the place where she have sit down and one become the great indian desert and the other become the desert of sahara and you can look them out on the map. 
he go west and he find all the beaver there be make a beaver dam across the mouth of broad river that have be get ready for him. 
kun. say all the beaver there be. 
payah kun say the eldest magician. and he breathe upon the fall tree and the still water and they become the everglades in florida and you may look them out on the map. 
then he go south and find all the turtle there be scratch with his flipper in the sand that have be get ready for him and the sand and the rock whirl through the air and fell far off into the sea. 
kun. say all the turtle there be. 
payah kun say the eldest magician. and he breathe upon the sand and the rock where they have fall in the sea and they become the most beautiful island of borneo celebes sumatra java and the rest of the malay archipelago and you can look them out on the map. 
by and by the eldest magician meet the man on the bank of the perak river and say ho. son of adam be all the animal obedient to you. 
yes say the man. 
be all the earth obedient to you. 
yes say the man. 
be all the sea obedient to you. 
no say the man. once a day and once a night the sea run up the perak river and drive the sweet water back into the forest so that my house be make wet. once a day and once a night it run down the river and draw all the water after it so that there be nothing leave but mud and my canoe be upset. be that the play you tell it to play. 
no say the eldest magician. that be a new and a bad play. 
look. say the man and a he speak the great sea come up the mouth of the perak river drive the river backwards till it overflow all the dark forest for mile and mile and flood the man s house. 
this be wrong. launch your canoe and we will find out who be play with the sea say the eldest magician. they step into the canoe. the little girl daughter come with them. and the man take his kris a curve wavy dagger with a blade like a flame and they push out on the perak river. then the sea begin to run back and back and the canoe be suck out of the mouth of the perak river past selangor past malacca past singapore out and out to the island of bingtang a though it have be pull by a string. 
then the eldest magician stand up and shout ho. beast bird and fish that i take between my hand at the very begin and teach the play that you should play which one of you be play with the sea. 
then all the beast bird and fish say together eldest magician we play the play that you teach u to play we and our child s child. but not one of u play with the sea. 
then the moon rise big and full over the water and the eldest magician say to the hunchbacked old man who sit in the moon spin a fish line with which he hope one day to catch the world ho. fisher of the moon be you play with the sea. 
no say the fisherman i be spin a line with which i shall some day catch the world. but i do not play with the sea. and he go on spin his line. 
now there be also a rat up in the moon who always bite the old fisherman s line a fast a it be make and the eldest magician say to him ho. rat of the moon be you play with the sea. 
and the rat say i be too busy bite through the line that this old fisherman be spin. i do not play with the sea. and he go on bite the line. 
then the little girl daughter put up her little soft brown arm with the beautiful white shell bracelet and say o eldest magician. when my father here talk to you at the very begin and i lean upon his shoulder while the beast be be teach their play one beast go away naughtily into the sea before you have teach him his play. 
and the eldest magician say how wise be little child who see and be silent. what be the beast like. 
and the little girl daughter say he be round and he be flat. and his eye grow upon stalk. and he walk sideways like this. and he be cover with strong armour upon his back. 
and the eldest magician say how wise be little child who speak truth. now i know where pau amma go. give me the paddle. 
so he take the paddle. but there be no need to paddle for the water flow steadily past all the island till they come to the place call pusat tasek the heart of the sea where the great hollow be that lead down to the heart of the world and in that hollow grow the wonderful tree pauh janggi that bear the magic twin nut. then the eldest magician slide his arm up to the shoulder through the deep warm water and under the root of the wonderful tree he touch the broad back of pau amma the crab. and pau amma settle down at the touch and all the sea rise up a water rise in a basin when you put your hand into it. 
ah. say the eldest magician. now i know who ha be play with the sea. and he call out what be you do pau amma. 
and pau amma deep down below answer once a day and once a night i go out to look for my food. once a day and once a night i return. leave me alone. 
then the eldest magician say listen pau amma. when you go out from your cave the water of the sea pour down into pusat tasek and all the beach of all the island be leave bare and the little fish die and raja moyang kaban the king of the elephant his leg be make muddy. when you come back and sit in pusat tasek the water of the sea rise and half the little island be drown and the man s house be flood and raja abdullah the king of the crocodile his mouth be fill with the salt water. 
then pau amma deep down below laugh and say i do not know i be so important. henceforward i will go out seven time a day and the water shall never be still. 
and the eldest magician say i cannot make you play the play you be mean to play pau amma because you escape me at the very begin. but if you be not afraid come up and we will talk about it. 
i be not afraid say pau amma and he rise to the top of the sea in the moonlight. there be nobody in the world so big a pau amma for he be the king crab of all crab. not a common crab but a king crab. one side of his great shell touch the beach at sarawak. the other touch the beach at pahang. and he be tall than the smoke of three volcano. a he rise up through the branch of the wonderful tree he tear off one of the great twin fruit the magic double kernelled nut that make people young and the little girl daughter saw it bob alongside the canoe and pull it in and begin to pick out the soft eye of it with her little golden scissor. 
now say the magician make a magic pau amma to show that you be really important. 
pau amma roll his eye and wave his leg but he could only stir up the sea because though he be a king crab he be nothing more than a crab and the eldest magician laugh. 
you be not so important after all pau amma he say. now let me try and he make a magic with his leave hand with just the little finger of his leave hand and lo and behold best beloved pau amma s hard blue green black shell fell off him a a husk fall off a cocoa nut and pau amma be leave all soft soft a the little crab that you sometimes find on the beach best beloved. 
indeed you be very important say the eldest magician. shall i ask the man here to cut you with kris. shall i send for raja moyang kaban the king of the elephant to pierce you with his tusk or shall i call raja abdullah the king of the crocodile to bite you. 
and pau amma say i be ashamed. give me back my hard shell and let me go back to pusat tasek and i will only stir out once a day and once a night to get my food. 
and the eldest magician say no pau amma i will not give you back your shell for you will grow big and proud and strong and perhaps you will forget your promise and you will play with the sea once more. 
then pau amma say what shall i do. i be so big that i can only hide in pusat tasek and if i go anywhere else all soft a i be now the shark and the dogfish will eat me. and if i go to pusat tasek all soft a i be now though i may be safe i can never stir out to get my food and so i shall die. then he wave his leg and lament. 
listen pau amma say the eldest magician. i cannot make you play the play you be mean to play because you escape me at the very begin. but if you choose i can make every stone and every hole and every bunch of weed in all the sea a safe pusat tasek for you and your child for always. 
then pau amma say that be good but i do not choose yet. look. there be that man who talk to you at the very begin. if he have not take up your attention i should not have grow tire of wait and run away and all this would never have happen. what will he do for me. 
and the man say if you choose i will make a magic so that both the deep water and the dry grind will be a home for you and your child so that you shall be able to hide both on the land and in the sea. 
and pau amma say i do not choose yet. look. there be that girl who saw me run away at the very begin. if she have speak then the eldest magician would have call me back and all this would never have happen. what will she do for me. 
and the little girl daughter say this be a good nut that i be eat. if you choose i will make a magic and i will give you this pair of scissor very sharp and strong so that you and your child can eat cocoa nut like this all day long when you come up from the sea to the land. or you can dig a pusat tasek for yourself with the scissor that belong to you when there be no stone or hole near by. and when the earth be too hard by the help of these same scissor you can run up a tree. 
and pau amma say i do not choose yet for all soft a i be these gift would not help me. give me back my shell o eldest magician and then i will play your play. 
and the eldest magician say i will give it back pau amma for eleven month of the year. but on the twelfth month of every year it shall grow soft again to remind you and all your child that i can make magic and to keep you humble pau amma. for i see that if you can run both under the water and on land you will grow too bold. and if you can climb tree and crack nut and dig hole with your scissor you will grow too greedy pau amma. 
then pau amma think a little and say i have make my choice. i will take all the gift. 
then the eldest magician make a magic with the right hand with all five finger of his right hand and lo and behold best beloved pau amma grow small and small and small till at last there be only a little green crab swim in the water alongside the canoe cry in a very small voice give me the scissor. 
and the girl daughter pick him up on the palm of her little brown hand and sit him in the bottom of the canoe and give him her scissor and he wave them in his little arm and open them and shut them and snap them and say i can eat nut. i can crack shell. i can dig hole. i can climb tree. i can breathe in the dry air and i can find a safe pusat tasek under every stone. i do not know i be so important. kun. be this right. 
payah kun say the eldest magician and he laugh and give him his bless. and little pau amma scuttle over the side of the canoe into the water. and he be so tiny that he could have hide under the shadow of a dry leaf on land or of a dead shell at the bottom of the sea. 
be that well do. say the eldest magician. 
yes say the man. but now we must go back to perak and that be a weary way to paddle. if we have wait till pau amma have go out of pusat tasek and come home the water would have carry u there by itself. 
you be lazy say the eldest magician. so your child shall be lazy. they shall be the lazy people in the world. they shall be call the malazy the lazy people. and he hold up his finger to the moon and say o fisherman here be the man too lazy to row home. pull his canoe home with your line fisherman. 
no say the man. if i be to be lazy all my day let the sea work for me twice a day for ever. that will save paddle. 
and the eldest magician laugh and say payah kun. that be right. 
and the rat of the moon stop bite the line. and the fisherman let his line down till it touch the sea and he pull the whole deep sea along past the island of bintang past singapore past malacca past selangor till the canoe whirl into the mouth of the perak river again. kun. say the fisherman of the moon. 
payah kun say the eldest magician. see now that you pull the sea twice a day and twice a night for ever so that the malazy fisherman may be save paddle. but be careful not to do it too hard or i shall make a magic on you a i do to pau amma. 
then they all go up the perak river and go to bed best beloved. 
now listen and attend. 
from that day to this the moon ha always pull the sea up and down and make what we call the tide. sometimes the fisher of the sea pull a little too hard and then we get spring tide. and sometimes he pull a little too softly and then we get what be call neap tide. but nearly always he be careful because of the eldest magician. 
and pau amma. you can see when you go to the beach how all pau amma s baby make little pusat taseks for themselves under every stone and bunch of weed on the sand. you can see them wave their little scissor. and in some part of the world they truly live on the dry land and run up the palm tree and eat cocoa nut exactly a the girl daughter promise. but once a year all pau ammas must shake off their hard armour and be soft to remind them of what the eldest magician could do. and so it isn t fair to kill or hunt pau amma s baby just because old pau amma be stupidly rude a very long time ago. 
oh yes. and pau amma s baby hate be take out of their little pusat taseks and bring home in pickle bottle. that be why they nip you with their scissor and it serf you right. 
china go p s and o s pas pau amma s playground close and his pusat tasek lie near the track of most b. i. s. u. y. k. and n. d. l. know pau amma s home a well a the fisher of the sea know ben m. m. s and rubattinos. but. and this be rather queer. a. t. l. s can not come here. o. and o. and d. o. a. must go round another way. orient anchor bibby hall never go that way at all. u. c. s. would have a fit if it find itself on it. and if beaver take their cargo to penang instead of lagos or a fat shaw savill bore passenger to singapore or a white star be to try a little trip to sourabaya or a b. s. a. go on past natal to cheribon then great mr. lloyd would come with a wire and drag them home. 
you ll know what my riddle mean when you ve eat mangosteen. 
or if you can t wait till then ask them to let you have the outside page of the time. turn over to page where it be mark ship on the top leave hand. then take the atlas. and that be the fine picture book in the world. and see how the name of the place that the steamer go to fit into the name of the place on the map. any steamer kiddy ought to be able to do that. but if you can t read ask some one to show it you. 
the cat that walk by himself. 
hear and attend and listen. for this befall and behappened and become and be o my best beloved when the tame animal be wild. the dog be wild and the horse be wild and the cow be wild and the sheep be wild and the pig be wild a wild a wild could be and they walk in the wet wild wood by their wild lones. but the wild of all the wild animal be the cat. he walk by himself and all place be alike to him. 
of course the man be wild too. he be dreadfully wild. he didn t even begin to be tame till he meet the woman and she tell him that she do not like live in his wild way. she pick out a nice dry cave instead of a heap of wet leaf to lie down in. and she strew clean sand on the floor. and she light a nice fire of wood at the back of the cave. and she hang a dry wild horse skin tail down across the open of the cave. and she say wipe you foot dear when you come in and now we ll keep house. 
that night best beloved they eat wild sheep roast on the hot stone and flavour with wild garlic and wild pepper. and wild duck stuff with wild rice and wild fenugreek and wild coriander. and marrow bone of wild ox. and wild cherry and wild grenadillas. then the man go to sleep in front of the fire ever so happy. but the woman sit up comb her hair. she take the bone of the shoulder of mutton the big fat blade bone and she look at the wonderful mark on it and she throw more wood on the fire and she make a magic. she make the first sing magic in the world. 
out in the wet wild wood all the wild animal gather together where they could see the light of the fire a long way off and they wonder what it mean. 
then wild horse stamp with his wild foot and say o my friend and o my enemy why have the man and the woman make that great light in that great cave and what harm will it do u. 
wild dog lift up his wild nose and smell the smell of roast mutton and say i will go up and see and look and say. for i think it be good. cat come with me. 
nenni. say the cat. i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. i will not come. 
then we can never be friend again say wild dog and he trot off to the cave. but when he have go a little way the cat say to himself all place be alike to me. why should i not go too and see and look and come away at my own like. so he slip after wild dog softly very softly and hide himself where he could hear everything. 
when wild dog reach the mouth of the cave he lift up the dry horse skin with his nose and sniff the beautiful smell of the roast mutton and the woman look at the blade bone hear him and laugh and say here come the first. wild thing out of the wild wood what do you want. 
wild dog say o my enemy and wife of my enemy what be this that smell so good in the wild wood. 
then the woman pick up a roast mutton bone and throw it to wild dog and say wild thing out of the wild wood taste and try. wild dog gnaw the bone and it be more delicious than anything he have ever taste and he say o my enemy and wife of my enemy give me another. 
the woman say wild thing out of the wild wood help my man to hunt through the day and guard this cave at night and i will give you a many roast bone a you need. 
ah. say the cat listen. this be a very wise woman but she be not so wise a i be. 
wild dog crawl into the cave and lay his head on the woman s lap and say o my friend and wife of my friend i will help your man to hunt through the day and at night i will guard your cave. 
ah. say the cat listen. that be a very foolish dog. and he go back through the wet wild wood wave his wild tail and walk by his wild lone. but he never tell anybody. 
when the man wake up he say what be wild dog do here. and the woman say his name be not wild dog any more but the first friend because he will be our friend for always and always and always. take him with you when you go hunt. 
next night the woman cut great green armful of fresh grass from the water meadow and dry it before the fire so that it smelt like new mow hay and she sit at the mouth of the cave and plait a halter out of horse hide and she look at the shoulder of mutton bone at the big broad blade bone and she make a magic. she make the second sing magic in the world. 
out in the wild wood all the wild animal wonder what have happen to wild dog and at last wild horse stamp with his foot and say i will go and see and say why wild dog ha not return. cat come with me. 
nenni. say the cat. i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. i will not come. but all the same he follow wild horse softly very softly and hide himself where he could hear everything. 
when the woman hear wild horse trip and stumble on his long mane she laugh and say here come the second. wild thing out of the wild wood what do you want. 
wild horse say o my enemy and wife of my enemy where be wild dog. 
the woman laugh and pick up the blade bone and look at it and say wild thing out of the wild wood you do not come here for wild dog but for the sake of this good grass. 
and wild horse trip and stumble on his long mane say that be true. give it me to eat. 
the woman say wild thing out of the wild wood bend your wild head and wear what i give you and you shall eat the wonderful grass three time a day. 
ah say the cat listen this be a clever woman but she be not so clever a i be. wild horse bend his wild head and the woman slip the plait hide halter over it and wild horse breathe on the woman s foot and say o my mistress and wife of my master i will be your servant for the sake of the wonderful grass. 
ah say the cat listen that be a very foolish horse. and he go back through the wet wild wood wave his wild tail and walk by his wild lone. but he never tell anybody. 
when the man and the dog come back from hunt the man say what be wild horse do here. and the woman say his name be not wild horse any more but the first servant because he will carry u from place to place for always and always and always. ride on his back when you go hunt. 
next day hold her wild head high that her wild horn should not catch in the wild tree wild cow come up to the cave and the cat follow and hide himself just the same a before. and everything happen just the same a before. and the cat say the same thing a before and when wild cow have promise to give her milk to the woman every day in exchange for the wonderful grass the cat go back through the wet wild wood wave his wild tail and walk by his wild lone just the same a before. but he never tell anybody. and when the man and the horse and the dog come home from hunt and ask the same question same a before the woman say her name be not wild cow any more but the giver of good food. she will give u the warm white milk for always and always and always and i will take care of her while you and the first friend and the first servant go hunt. 
next day the cat wait to see if any other wild thing would go up to the cave but no one move in the wet wild wood so the cat walk there by himself. and he saw the woman milk the cow and he saw the light of the fire in the cave and he smelt the smell of the warm white milk. 
cat say o my enemy and wife of my enemy where do wild cow go. 
the woman laugh and say wild thing out of the wild wood go back to the wood again for i have braid up my hair and i have put away the magic blade bone and we have no more need of either friend or servant in our cave. 
cat say i be not a friend and i be not a servant. i be the cat who walk by himself and i wish to come into your cave. 
woman say then why do you not come with first friend on the first night. 
cat grow very angry and say ha wild dog tell tale of me. 
then the woman laugh and say you be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to you. your be neither a friend nor a servant. you have say it yourself. go away and walk by yourself in all place alike. 
then cat pretend to be sorry and say must i never come into the cave. must i never sit by the warm fire. must i never drink the warm white milk. you be very wise and very beautiful. you should not be cruel even to a cat. 
woman say i know i be wise but i do not know i be beautiful. so i will make a bargain with you. if ever i say one word in your praise you may come into the cave. 
and if you say two word in my praise. say the cat. 
i never shall say the woman but if i say two word in your praise you may sit by the fire in the cave. 
and if you say three word. say the cat. 
i never shall say the woman but if i say three word in your praise you may drink the warm white milk three time a day for always and always and always. 
then the cat arch his back and say now let the curtain at the mouth of the cave and the fire at the back of the cave and the milk pot that stand beside the fire remember what my enemy and the wife of my enemy ha say. and he go away through the wet wild wood wave his wild tail and walk by his wild lone. 
that night when the man and the horse and the dog come home from hunt the woman do not tell them of the bargain that she have make with the cat because she be afraid that they might not like it. 
cat go far and far away and hide himself in the wet wild wood by his wild lone for a long time till the woman forget all about him. only the bat the little upside down bat that hang inside the cave know where cat hide. and every even bat would fly to cat with news of what be happen. 
one even bat say there be a baby in the cave. he be new and pink and fat and small and the woman be very fond of him. 
ah say the cat listen but what be the baby fond of. 
he be fond of thing that be soft and tickle say the bat. he be fond of warm thing to hold in his arm when he go to sleep. he be fond of be play with. he be fond of all those thing. 
ah say the cat listen then my time ha come. 
next night cat walk through the wet wild wood and hide very near the cave till morning time and man and dog and horse go hunt. the woman be busy cook that morning and the baby cry and interrupt. so she carry him outside the cave and give him a handful of pebble to play with. but still the baby cry. 
then the cat put out his paddy paw and pat the baby on the cheek and it coo. and the cat rub against it fat knee and tickle it under it fat chin with his tail. and the baby laugh. and the woman hear him and smile. 
then the bat the little upside down bat that hang in the mouth of the cave say o my host and wife of my host and mother of my host s son a wild thing from the wild wood be most beautifully play with your baby. 
a bless on that wild thing whoever he may be say the woman straighten her back for i be a busy woman this morning and he ha do me a service. 
that very minute and second best beloved the dry horse skin curtain that be stretch tail down at the mouth of the cave fell down whoosh. because it remember the bargain she have make with the cat and when the woman go to pick it up lo and behold. the cat be sit quite comfy inside the cave. 
o my enemy and wife of my enemy and mother of my enemy say the cat it be i. for you have speak a word in my praise and now i can sit within the cave for always and always and always. but still i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. 
the woman be very angry and shut her lip tight and take up her spin wheel and begin to spin. but the baby cry because the cat have go away and the woman could not hush it for it struggle and kick and grow black in the face. 
o my enemy and wife of my enemy and mother of my enemy say the cat take a strand of the wire that you be spin and tie it to your spin whorl and drag it along the floor and i will show you a magic that shall make your baby laugh a loudly a he be now cry. 
i will do so say the woman because i be at my wit end. but i will not thank you for it. 
she tie the thread to the little clay spindle whorl and draw it across the floor and the cat run after it and pat it with his paw and roll head over heel and toss it backward over his shoulder and chase it between his hind leg and pretend to lose it and pounce down upon it again till the baby laugh a loudly a it have be cry and scramble after the cat and frolic all over the cave till it grow tire and settle down to sleep with the cat in it arm. 
now say the cat i will sing the baby a song that shall keep him asleep for an hour. and he begin to purr loud and low low and loud till the baby fell fast asleep. the woman smile a she look down upon the two of them and say that be wonderfully do. no question but you be very clever o cat. 
that very minute and second best beloved the smoke of the fire at the back of the cave come down in cloud from the roof puff. because it remember the bargain she have make with the cat and when it have clear away lo and behold. the cat be sit quite comfy close to the fire. 
o my enemy and wife of my enemy and mother of my enemy say the cat it be i for you have speak a second word in my praise and now i can sit by the warm fire at the back of the cave for always and always and always. but still i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. 
then the woman be very very angry and let down her hair and put more wood on the fire and bring out the broad blade bone of the shoulder of mutton and begin to make a magic that should prevent her from say a third word in praise of the cat. it be not a sing magic best beloved it be a still magic. and by and by the cave grow so still that a little wee wee mouse creep out of a corner and run across the floor. 
o my enemy and wife of my enemy and mother of my enemy say the cat be that little mouse part of your magic. 
ouh. chee. no indeed. say the woman and she drop the blade bone and jump upon the footstool in front of the fire and braid up her hair very quick for fear that the mouse should run up it. 
ah say the cat watch then the mouse will do me no harm if i eat it. 
no say the woman braid up her hair eat it quickly and i will ever be grateful to you. 
cat make one jump and catch the little mouse and the woman say a hundred thank. even the first friend be not quick enough to catch little mouse a you have do. you must be very wise. 
that very moment and second o best beloved the milk pot that stand by the fire crack in two piece ffft because it remember the bargain she have make with the cat and when the woman jump down from the footstool lo and behold. the cat be lap up the warm white milk that lay in one of the break piece. 
o my enemy and wife of my enemy and mother of my enemy say the cat it be i. for you have speak three word in my praise and now i can drink the warm white milk three time a day for always and always and always. but still i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. 
then the woman laugh and set the cat a bowl of the warm white milk and say o cat you be a clever a a man but remember that your bargain be not make with the man or the dog and i do not know what they will do when they come home. 
what be that to me. say the cat. if i have my place in the cave by the fire and my warm white milk three time a day i do not care what the man or the dog can do. 
that even when the man and the dog come into the cave the woman tell them all the story of the bargain while the cat sit by the fire and smile. then the man say yes but he ha not make a bargain with me or with all proper men after me. then he take off his two leather boot and he take up his little stone axe. that make three. and he fetch a piece of wood and a hatchet. that be five altogether. and he set them out in a row and he say now we will make our bargain. if you do not catch mouse when you be in the cave for always and always and always i will throw these five thing at you whenever i see you and so shall all proper men do after me. 
ah say the woman listen this be a very clever cat but he be not so clever a my man. 
the cat count the five thing. and they look very knobby. and he say i will catch mouse when i be in the cave for always and always and always. but still i be the cat who walk by himself and all place be alike to me. 
not when i be near say the man. if you have not say that last i would have put all these thing away for always and always and always. but i be now go to throw my two boot and my little stone axe. that make three. at you whenever i meet you. and so shall all proper men do after me. 
then the dog say wait a minute. he ha not make a bargain with me or with all proper dog after me. and he show his teeth and say if you be not kind to the baby while i be in the cave for always and always and always i will hunt you till i catch you and when i catch you i will bite you. and so shall all proper dog do after me. 
ah say the woman listen this be a very clever cat but he be not so clever a the dog. 
cat count the dog s teeth. and they look very point. and he say i will be kind to the baby while i be in the cave a long a he doe not pull my tail too hard for always and always and always. but still i be the cat that walk by himself and all place be alike to me. 
not when i be near say the dog. if you have not say that last i would have shut my mouth for always and always and always. but now i be go to hunt you up a tree whenever i meet you. and so shall all proper dog do after me. 
then the man throw his two boot and his little stone axe. that make three. at the cat and the cat run out of the cave and the dog chase him up a tree. and from that day to this best beloved three proper men out of five will always throw thing at a cat whenever they meet him and all proper dog will chase him up a tree. but the cat keep his side of the bargain too. he will kill mouse and he will be kind to baby when he be in the house just a long a they do not pull his tail too hard. but when he ha do that and between time and when the moon get up and night come he be the cat that walk by himself and all place be alike to him. then he go out to the wet wild wood or up the wet wild tree or on the wet wild roof wave his wild tail and walk by his wild lone. 
pussy can sit by the fire and sing pussy can climb a tree or play with a silly old cork and string to muse herself not me. but i like binkie my dog because he lnows how to behave. so binkie s the same a the first friend be and i be the man in the cave. 
pussy will play man friday till it s time to wet her paw and make her walk on the window sill. for the footprint crusoe saw. then she fluffles her tail and mew and scratch and win t attend. but binkie will play whatever i choose and he be my true first friend. 
pussy will rub my knee with her head pretend she love me hard. but the very minute i go to my bed pussy run out in the yard and there she stay till the morning light. so i know it be only pretend. but binkie he snore at my foot all night and he be my first friend. 
the butterfly that stamp. 
this o my best beloved be a story a new and a wonderful story a story quite different from the other story a story about the most wise sovereign suleiman bin daoud solomon the son of david. 
there be three hundred and fifty five story about suleiman bin daoud. but this be not one of them. it be not the story of the lapwing who find the water. or the hoopoe who shade suleimanbin daoud from the heat. it be not the story of the glass pavement or the ruby with the crook hole or the gold bar of balkis. it be the story of the butterfly that stamp. 
now attend all over again and listen. 
suleiman bin daoud be wise. he understand what the beast say what the bird say what the fish say and what the insect say. he understand what the rock say deep under the earth when they bow in towards each other and groan. and he understand what the tree say when they rustle in the middle of the morning. he understand everything from the bishop on the bench to the hyssop on the wall and balkis his head queen the most beautiful queen balkis be nearly a wise a he be. 
suleiman bin daoud be strong. upon the third finger of the right hand he wear a ring. when he turn it once afrits and djinn come out of the earth to do whatever he tell them. when he turn it twice fairy come down from the sky to do whatever he tell them. and when he turn it three time the very great angel azrael of the sword come dress a a water carrier and tell him the news of the three world above below and here. 
and yet suleiman bin daoud be not proud. he very seldom show off and when he do he be sorry for it. once he try to fee all the animal in all the world in one day but when the food be ready an animal come out of the deep sea and eat it up in three mouthful. suleiman bin daoud be very surprise and say o animal who be you. and the animal say o king live for ever. i be the small of thirty thousand brother and our home be at the bottom of the sea. we hear that you be go to fee all the animal in all the world and my brother send me to ask when dinner would be ready. suleiman bin daoud be more surprise than ever and say o animal you have eat all the dinner that i make ready for all the animal in the world. and the animal say o king live for ever but do you really call that a dinner. where i come from we each eat twice a much a that between meal. then suleiman bin daoud fell flat on his face and say o animal. i give that dinner to show what a great and rich king i be and not because i really want to be kind to the animal. now i be ashamed and it serf me right. suleiman bin daoud be a really truly wise man best beloved. after that he never forget that it be silly to show off. and now the real story part of my story begin. 
he marry ever so many wife. he marry nine hundred and ninety nine wife besides the most beautiful balkis. and they all live in a great golden palace in the middle of a lovely garden with fountain. he didn t really want nine hundred and ninety nine wife but in those day everybody marry ever so many wife and of course the king have to marry ever so many more just to show that he be the king. 
some of the wife be nice but some be simply horrid and the horrid one quarrel with the nice one and make them horrid too and then they would all quarrel with suleiman bin daoud and that be horrid for him. but balkis the most beautiful never quarrel with suleiman bin daoud. she love him too much. she sit in her room in the golden palace or walk in the palace garden and be truly sorry for him. 
of course if he have choose to turn his ring on his finger and call up the djinn and the afrits they would have magicked all those nine hundred and ninety nine quarrelsome wife into white mule of the desert or greyhound or pomegranate seed. but suleiman bin daoud think that that would be show off. so when they quarrel too much he only walk by himself in one part of the beautiful palace garden and wish he have never be bear. 
one day when they have quarrel for three week all nine hundred and ninety nine wife together suleiman bin daoud go out for peace and quiet a usual. and among the orange tree he meet balkis the most beautiful very sorrowful because suleiman bin daoud be so worry. and she say to him o my lord and light of my eye turn the ring upon your finger and show these queen of egypt and mesopotamia and persia and china that you be the great and terrible king. but suleiman bin daoud shake his head and say o my lady and delight of my life remember the animal that come out of the sea and make me ashamed before all the animal in all the world because i show off. now if i show off before these queen of persia and egypt and abyssinia and china merely because they worry me i might be make even more ashamed than i have be. 
and balkis the most beautiful say o my lord and treasure of my soul what will you do. 
and suleiman bin daoud say o my lady and content of my heart i shall continue to endure my fate at the hand of these nine hundred and ninety nine queen who vex me with their continual quarrel. 
so he go on between the lily and the loquat and the rose and the canna and the heavy scent ginger plant that grow in the garden till he come to the great camphor tree that be call the camphor tree of suleiman bin daoud. but balkis hide among the tall iris and the spot bamboo and the red lillie behind the camphor tree so a to be near her own true love suleiman bin daoud. 
presently two butterfly fly under the tree quarrel. 
suleiman bin daoud hear one say to the other i wonder at your presumption in talk like this to me. don t you know that if i stamp with my foot all suleiman bin daoud s palace and this garden here would immediately vanish in a clap of thunder. 
then suleiman bin daoud forget his nine hundred and ninety nine bothersome wife and laugh till the camphor tree shake at the butterfly s boast. and he hold out his finger and say little man come here. 
the butterfly be dreadfully frighten but he manage to fly up to the hand of suleiman bin daoud and cling there fan himself. suleiman bin daoud bend his head and whisper very softly little man you know that all your stamp wouldn t bend one blade of grass. what make you tell that awful fib to your wife. for doubtless she be your wife. 
the butterfly look at suleiman bin daoud and saw the most wise king s eye twinkle like star on a frosty night and he pick up his courage with both wing and he put his head on one side and say o king live for ever. she be my wife. and you know what wife be like. 
suleiman bin daoud smile in his beard and say yes i know little brother. 
one must keep them in order somehow say the butterfly and she ha be quarrel with me all the morning. i say that to quiet her. 
and suleiman bin daoud say may it quiet her. go back to your wife little brother and let me hear what you say. 
back fly the butterfly to his wife who be all of a twitter behind a leaf and she say he hear you. suleiman bin daoud himself hear you. 
hear me. say the butterfly. of course he do. i mean him to hear me. 
and what do he say. oh what do he say. 
well say the butterfly fan himself most importantly between you and me my dear of course i don t blame him because his palace must have cost a great deal and the orange be just ripen he ask me not to stamp and i promise i wouldn t. 
gracious. say his wife and sit quite quiet. but suleiman bin daoud laugh till the tear run down his face at the impudence of the bad little butterfly. 
balkis the most beautiful stand up behind the tree among the red lily and smile to herself for she have hear all this talk. she think if i be wise i can yet save my lord from the persecution of these quarrelsome queen and she hold out her finger and whisper softly to the butterfly s wife little woman come here. up fly the butterfly s wife very frighten and cling to balkis s white hand. 
balkis bend her beautiful head down and whisper little woman do you believe what your husband ha just say. 
the butterfly s wife look at balkis and saw the most beautiful queen s eye shin like deep pool with starlight on them and she pick up her courage with both wing and say o queen be lovely for ever. you know what men folk be like. 
and the queen balkis the wise balkis of sheba put her hand to her lip to hide a smile and say little sister i know. 
they get angry say the butterfly s wife fan herself quickly over nothing at all but we must humour them o queen. they never mean half they say. if it plea my husband to believe that i believe he can make suleiman bin daoud s palace disappear by stamp his foot i m sure i don t care. he ll forget all about it to morrow. 
little sister say balkis you be quite right. but next time he begin to boast take him at his word. ask him to stamp and see what will happen. we know what men folk be like don t we. he ll be very much ashamed. 
away fly the butterfly s wife to her husband and in five minute they be quarrel bad than ever. 
remember. say the butterfly. remember what i can do if i stamp my foot. 
i don t believe you one little bite say the butterfly s wife. i should very much like to see it do. suppose you stamp now. 
i promise suleiman bin daoud that i wouldn t say the butterfly and i don t want to break my promise. 
it wouldn t matter if you do say his wife. you couldn t bend a blade of grass with your stamp. i dare you to do it she say. stamp. stamp. stamp. 
suleiman bin daoud sit under the camphor tree hear every word of this and he laugh a he have never laugh in his life before. he forget all about his queen. he forget all about the animal that come out of the sea. he forget about show off. he just laugh with joy and balkis on the other side of the tree smile because her own true love be so joyful. 
presently the butterfly very hot and puffy come whirl back under the shadow of the camphor tree and say to suleiman she want me to stamp. she want to see what will happen o suleiman bin daoud. you know i can t do it and now she ll never believe a word i say. she ll laugh at me to the end of my day. 
no little brother say suleiman bin daoud she will never laugh at you again and he turn the ring on his finger just for the little butterfly s sake not for the sake of show off and lo and behold four huge djinn come out of the earth. 
slave say suleiman bin daoud when this gentleman on my finger. that be where the impudent butterfly be sit. stamp his leave front forefoot you will make my palace and these garden disappear in a clap of thunder. when he stamp again you will bring them back carefully. 
now little brother he say go back to your wife and stamp all you ve a mind to. 
away fly the butterfly to his wife who be cry i dare you to do it. i dare you to do it. stamp. stamp now. stamp. balkis saw the four vast djinn stoop down to the four corner of the garden with the palace in the middle and she clap her hand softly and say at last suleiman bin daoud will do for the sake of a butterfly what he ought to have do long ago for his own sake and the quarrelsome queen will be frighten. 
the the butterfly stamp. the djinn jerk the palace and the garden a thousand mile into the air. there be a most awful thunder clap and everything grow inky black. the butterfly s wife flutter about in the dark cry oh i ll be good. i m so sorry i speak. only bring the garden back my dear darling husband and i ll never contradict again. 
the butterfly be nearly a frighten a his wife and suleiman bin daoud laugh so much that it be several minute before he find breath enough to whisper to the butterfly stamp again little brother. give me back my palace most great magician. 
yes give him back his palace say the butterfly s wife still fly about in the dark like a moth. give him back his palace and don t let s have any more horrid. magic. 
well my dear say the butterfly a bravely a he could you see what your nag ha lead to. of course it doesn t make any difference to me i m use to this kind of thing but a a favour to you and to suleiman bin daoud i don t mind put thing right. 
so he stamp once more and that instant the djinn let down the palace and the garden without even a bump. the sun shine on the dark green orange leaf. the fountain play among the pink egyptian lily. the bird go on sing and the butterfly s wife lay on her side under the camphor tree waggle her wing and pant oh i ll be good. i ll be good. 
suleiman bin daolld could hardly speak for laugh. he lean back all weak and hiccoughy and shake his finger at the butterfly and say o great wizard what be the sense of return to me my palace if at the same time you slay me with mirth. 
then come a terrible noise for all the nine hundred and ninety nine queen run out of the palace shriek and shout and call for their baby. they hurry down the great marble step below the fountain one hundred abreast and the most wise balkis go statelily forward to meet them and say what be your trouble o queen. 
they stand on the marble step one hundred abreast and shout what be our trouble. we be live peacefully in our golden palace a be our custom when upon a sudden the palace disappear and we be leave sit in a thick and noisome darkness. and it thunder and djinn and afrits move about in the darkness. that be our trouble o head queen and we be most extremely trouble on account of that trouble for it be a troublesome trouble unlike any trouble we have know. 
then balkis the most beautiful queen suleiman bin daoud s very best beloved queen that be of sheba and sable and the river of the gold of the south from the desert of zinn to the tower of zimbabwe balkis almost a wise a the most wise suleiman bin daoud himself say it be nothing o queen. a butterfly ha make complaint against his wife because she quarrel with him and it ha please our lord suleiman bin daoud to teach her a lesson in low speak and humbleness for that be count a virtue among the wife of the butterfly. 
then up and speak an egyptian queen the daughter of a pharoah and she say our palace cannot be pluck up by the root like a leek for the sake of a little insect. no. suleiman bin daoud must be dead and what we hear and saw be the earth thunder and darken at the news. 
then balkis beckon that bold queen without look at her and say to her and to the others come and see. 
they come down the marble step one hundred abreast and beneath his camphor tree still weak with laugh they saw the most wise king suleiman bin daoud rock back and forth with a butterfly on either hand and they hear him say o wife of my brother in the air remember after this to please your husband in all thing l he be provoke to stamp his foot yet again. for he ha say that he be use to this magic and he be most eminently a great magician one who steal away the very palace of suleirnan bin daoud himself. go in peace little folk. and he kiss them on the wing and they fly away. 
then all the queen except balkis the most beautiful and splendid balkis who stand apart smile fell flat on their face for they say if these thing be do when a butterfly be displease with his wife what shall be do to u who have vex our king with our loud speak and open quarrel through many day. 
then they put their veil over their head and they put their hand over their mouth and they tiptoe back to the palace most mousy quiet. 
then balkis the most beautiful and excellent balkis go forward through the red lily into the shade of the camphor tree and lay her hand upon suleiman bin daoud s shoulder and say o my lord and treasure of my soul rejoice for we have teach the queen of egypt and ethiopia and abyssinia and persia and india and china with a great and a memorable teach. 
and suleiman bin daoud still look after the butterfly where they play in the sunlight say o my lady and jewel of my felicity when do this happen. for i have be jest with a butterfly ever since i come into the garden. and he tell balkis what he have do. 
balkis the tender and most lovely balkis say o my lord and regent of my existence i hide behind the camphor tree and saw it all. it be i who tell the butterfly s wife to ask the butterfly to stamp because i hop that for the sake of the jest my lord would make some great magic and that the queen would see it and be frighten. and she tell him what the queen have say and see and think. 
then suleiman bin daoud rise up from his seat under the camphor tree and stretch his arm and rejoice and say o my lady and sweetener of my day know that if i have make a magic against my queen for the sake of pride or anger a i make that feast for all the animal i should certainly have be put to shame. but by mean of your wisdom i make the magic for the sake of a jest and for the sake of a little butterfly and behold it ha also deliver me from the vexation of my vexatious wife. tell me therefore o my lady and heart of my heart how do you come to be so wise. and balkis the queen beautiful and tall look up into suleiman bin daoud s eye and put her head a little on one side just like the butterfly and say first o my lord because i love you. and secondly o my lord because i know what woman folk be. 
then they go up to the palace and live happily ever afterwards. 
but wasn t it clever of balkis. 
there be never a queen like balkis from here to the wide world s end. but balkis tail to a butterfly a you would talk to a friend. 
there be never a king like solomon not since the world begin. but solomon talk to a butterfly a a man would talk to a man. 
she be queen of sabaea and he be asia s lord but they both of em talk to butterfly when they take their walk abroad. 
