traffic and discovery. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
from the masjid al aqsa of sayyid ahmed. wahabi. 
the captive. 
poseidon s law. 
the bond of discipline. 
the runner. 
a sahib war. 
the wet litany. 
their lawful occasion part i. 
their lawful occasion part ii. 
the king s task. 
the comprehension of private cooper. 
the necessitarian. 
steam tactic. 
kaspar s song in varda. 
wireless. 
song of the old guard. 
the army of a dream part i. 
the army of a dream part ii. 
the return of the child. 
they. 
from lyden s irenius_. 
mr. bathurst. 
_our father also_. 
below the mill dam. 
the captive. 
from the masjid al aqsa of sayyid ahmed. wahabi. 
not with an outcry to allah nor any complain he answer his name at the muster and stand to the chain. when the twin anklet be nip on the leg bar that hold them he brotherly greet the armourer stoop to weld them. ere the sad dust of the marshal foot of the chain gang swallow him observe him nobly at ease i alight and follow him. thus we have speech by the way but not touch his sorrow rather his red yesterday and his regal to morrow wherein he statelily move to the clink of his chain unregarded nowise abash but content to drink of the potion award. salute aloofly his fate he make swift with his story. and the word of his mouth be a slave spread carpet of glory embroider with name of the djinn a miraculous weave but the cool and perspicuous eye overbear unbelieving. so i submit myself to the limit of rapture bind by this man we have bind amid captive his capture till he return me to earth and the vision depart. but on him be the peace and the bless. for he be great hearted. 
the captive. 
he that believeth shall not make haste. isaiah. 
the guard boat lay across the mouth of the bath pool her crew idly spank the water with the flat of their oar. a red coat militia man rifle in hand sit at the bow and a petty officer at the stern. between the snow white cutter and the flat top honey colour rock on the beach the green water be trouble with shrimp pink prisoner of war bath. behind their orderly tin camp and the electric light pole rise those stone dot spur that throw heat on simonstown. beneath them the little barracouta nod to the big gibraltar_ and the old penelope_ that in ten year ha be bachelor club natural history museum kindergarten and prison root and dig at her fix mooring. far out a three funnel atlantic transport with turtle bow and stern waddle in from the deep sea. 
say the sentry assure of the visitor s good faith talk to em. you can to any that speak english. you ll find a lot that do. 
here and there earnest group gather round minister of the dutch reform church who doubtless preach conciliation but the majority prefer their bath. the god who look after small thing have cause the visitor that day to receive two week delay mail in one from a casual postman and the whole heavy bundle of newspaper tie with a strap he dangle a bait. at the edge of the beach cross legged undress to his sky blue army shirt sit a lean ginger haired man on guard over a dozen heap of clothe. his eye follow the incoming atlantic boat. 
excuse me mister he say without turn. and the speech betray his nationality. would you mind keep away from these garment. i ve be elect janitor on the dutch vote. 
the visitor move over against the barb wire fence and sit down to his mail. at the rustle of the newspaper wrapper the ginger colour man turn quickly the hunger of a press ride people in his close set iron grey eye. 
have you any use for paper. say the visitor. 
have i any use. a quick curve forefinger be already snick off the out cover. why that s the new york postmark. give me the ad. at the back of harper s and m clure s and i m in touch with god s country again. do you know how i be ache for paper. 
the visitor tell the tale of the casual postman. 
providential. say the ginger colour man keen a a terrier on his task. both in time and matter. yes. the scientific american yet once more. oh it s good. it s good. his voice break a he press his hawk like nose against the heavily ink patent specification at the end. can i keep it. i thank you i thank you. why why well well. the american tyler of all thing create. do you subscribe to that. 
i m on the free list say the visitor nod. 
he extend his blue tan hand with that air of oriental spaciousness which distinguish the native bear american and meet the visitor s grasp expertly. i can only say that you have treat me like a brother. yes i ll take every last one you can spare. and if ever he pluck at the bosom of his shirt. psha. i forget i d no card on me. but my name s zigler laughton g. zigler. an american. if ohio s still in the union i be sir. but i m no extreme state right man. i ve use all of my native country and a few others a i have find occasion and now i be the captive of your bow and spear. i m not kick at that. i be not a coerce alien nor a naturalise texas mule tender nor an adventurer on the instalment plan. i don t tag after our consul when he come around expect the american eagle to lift me out o this by the slack of my pant. no sir. if a britisher go into indian territory and shoot up his surround with a colt automatic. not that she s any sort of weapon but i take her for an illustration. he d be string up quick n a snowflake ud melt in hell. no ambassador of yours ud save him. i m my neck ahead on this game anyway. that s how i regard the proposition. 
have i go gun against the british. to a certain extent i presume you never hear tell of the laughton zigler automatic two inch field gun with self feed hopper single oil cylinder recoil and ballbearing gear throughout. or laughtite the new explosive. absolutely uniform in effect and one ninth the bulk of any present effete charge flake cannonite cordite troisdorf cellulose cocoa cord or prism i don t care what it be. laughtite s immense. so s the zigler automatic. it s me. it s fifteen year of me. you be not a gun sharp. i be sorry. i could have surprise you. apart from my gun my tale don t amount to much of anything. i thank you but i don t use any tobacco you d be likely to carry. bull durham. bull durham. i take it all back every last word. bull durham here. if ever you strike akron ohio when this fool war s over remember you ve laughton o. zigler in your vest pocket. include the city of akron. we ve a little club there. hell. what s the sense of talk akron with no pant. 
my gun. for two cent i d have ship her to our filipeens. come mighty near it too. but from what i d read in the paper you can t trust aguinaldo s crowd on scientific matter. why don t i offer it to our army. well you ve an effete aristocracy run yours and we ve a crowd of politician. the result be practically identical. i be not take any u. s. army in mine. 
i go to amsterdam with her to this dutch junta that suppose it s boss the war. i wasn t bring up to love the british for one thing and for another i know that if she get in her fine work. my gun. i d stand more chance of receive an unbiassed report from a crowd of dam fool british officer than from a hatful of politician nephew do duty a commissary and ordnance sharp. a i say i put the brown man out of the question. that s the way i regard the proposition. 
the dutch in holland don t amount to a row of pin. maybe i misjudge em. maybe they ve be swindle too often by self seek adventurer to know a enthusiast when they see him. anyway they re slow than the wrath o god. but on delusion a to their win out next thursday week at a. m. they be if i may say so quite british. 
i ll tell you a curious thing too. i fight em for ten day before i could get the financial side of my game fix to my like. i know they didn t believe in the zigler but they d no call to be crazy mean. i fix it free passage and freight for me and the gun to delagoa bay and beyond by steam and rail. then i go aboard to see her crate and there i strike my fellow passenger all deadhead same a me. well sir i turn in my track where i stand and besiege the ticket office and i say look at here van dunk. i m pay for my passage and her room in the hold every square and cubic foot. guess he knock down the fare to himself. but i pay. i pay. i wasn t go to deadhead along o that crowd of pentecostal sweeping. twould have hoodoo my gun for all time. that be the way i regard the proposition. no sir they be not pretty company. 
when we strike pretoria i have a hell and a half of a time try to interest the dutch vote in my gun an her potentiality. the bottom be out of thing rather much just about that time. kruger be pray some and steal some and the hollander lot be sing if you haven t any money you needn t come round nobody be spend his dough on anything except ticket to europe. we be both grossly neglect. when i think how i use to give performance in the public street with dummy cartridge fill the hopper and turn the handle till the sweat drop off me i blush sir. i ve make her to do her stunt before kaffir naked son of ham in commissioner street try to get a holt somewhere. 
do i talk. i despise exaggeration tain t american or scientific but a true a i m sit here like a blue end baboon in a kloof teddy roosevelt s western tour be a maiden s sigh compare to my advertise work. 
long in the spring i be rescue by a commandant call van zyl a big fleshy man with a lame leg. take away his hair and his gun and he d make a first class schenectady bar keep. he find me and the zigler on the veldt. pretoria wasn t wholesome at that time. and he annex me in a somnambulistic sort o way. he be dead against the war from the start but be a dutchman he fight a sight good than the rest of that god and the mauser outfit. adrian van zyl. sleep a heap in the daytime and didn t love nigger. i like him. i be the only foreigner in his commando. the rest be georgia cracker and pennsylvania dutch with a dash o philadelphia lawyer. i could tell you thing about them would surprise you. religion for one thing. woman for another. but i don t know a their notion o geography weren t the crazy. guess that must be some sort of automatic compensation. there wasn t one blame ant hill in their district they didn t know and use. but the world be flat they say and england be a day s trek from cape town. 
they could fight in their own way and don t you forget it. but i guess you will not. they fight to kill and by what i could make out the british fight to be kill. so both party be accommodate. 
i be the captive of your bow and spear sir. the position ha it obligation on both side. you could not be offensive or partisan to me. i cannot for the same reason be offensive to you. therefore i will not give you my opinion on the conduct of your war. 
anyway i didn t take the field a an offensive partisan but a an inventor. it be a condition and not a theory that confront me. yes sir i m a democrat by conviction and that be one of the best thing grover cleveland ever get off. 
after three month trek old man van zyl have his commando in good shape and refit off the british and he reckon he d wait on a british general of his acquaintance that do business on a circuit between stompiesneuk jackhalputs vrelegen and odendaalstroom year in and year out. he be a fixture in that section. 
he s a dam good man say van zyl. he s a friend of mine. he send in a fine doctor when i be wound and our hollander doc. want to cut my leg off. ya i ll guess we ll stay with him. up to date me and my zigler have live in innocuous desuetude owe to little odds and end rid out of gear. how in thunder be i to know there wasn t the ghost of any road in the country. but raw hide s cheap and lastin. i guess i ll make my next gun a thousand pound heavy though. 
well sir we strike the general on his beat vrelegen it be and our crowd open with the usual compliment at two thousand yard. van zyl shake himself into his greasy old saddle and say now we shall be quite happy mr. zigler. no more trek. joost twelve mile a day till the apricot be ripe. 
then we hitch on to his outpost and vedettes and cossack picquets or whatever they be call and we wander around the veldt arm in arm like brother. 
the way we work lodge be this way. the general he have his breakfast at. a. m. to the tick. he might have be a long island commuter. at. a. m. i d go down to the thirty fourth street ferry to meet him i mean i d see the zigler into position at two thousand. i begin at three thousand but that be cold and distant. and blow him off to two full hopper eighteen round just a they be bring in his coffee. if his crowd be busy celebrate the anniversary of waterloo or the last royal kid s birthday they d open on me with two gun. i ll tell you about them late on. but if they be disengage they d all stand to their horse and pile on the ironmongery and washer and typewriter and five week grub and in half an hour they d sail out after me and the rest of van zyl s boy. lie down and fire till. a. m. or maybe high noon. then we d go from labour to refreshment resooming at p. m. and battle till tea time. tuesday and friday be the general s move day. he d trek ahead ten or twelve mile and we d loaf around his flanker and exercise the pony a piece. sometimes he d get hang up in a drift stall crossin a crick and we d make playful snatch at his wagon. first time that happen i turn the zigler loose with high hope sir. but the old man be well post on rearguard with a gun to em and i have to haul her out with three mule instead of six. i be pretty mad. i wasn t look for any expert back of the royal british artillery. otherwise the game be mostly even. he d lay out three or four of our commando and we d gather in four or five of his once a week or thereon. one time i remember long towards dusk we saw em bury five of their boy. they stand pretty thick around the graf. we wasn t more than fifteen hundred yard off but old van zyl wouldn t fire. he just take off his hat at the proper time. he say if you stretch a man at his prayer you d have to hump his bad luck before the throne a well a your own. i be incline to agree with him. so we browse along week in and week out. a war sharp might have judge it sort of docile but for an inventor need practice one day and peace the next for check his theory it suit laughton o. zigler. 
and friendly. friendly be no word for it. we be brother in arm. 
why i know those two gun of the royal british artillery a well a i use to know the old fifth avenoo stage. they might have be brother too. 
they d jolt into action and wiggle around and skid and spit and cough and prize emselves back again during our hour of bloody battle till i could have weep sir at the spectacle of modern white men chain up to these old hand power back number flint and steel reap machine. one of em i call her baldy she d a long white scar all along her barrel i d make sure of twenty time. i know her crew by sight but she d come switch and teturing out of the dust of my shell like like a hen from under a buggy and she d dip into a gully and next thing i d know ud be her old nose peek over the ridge sniffin for u. her runnin mate have two grey mule in the lead and a natural wood wheel repaint and a whole raft of rope end trailin around. jever see tom reed with his vest off steerin congress through a heat wave. i ve be to washington often too often filin my patent. i call her tom reed. we three ud play pussy want a corner all round the outpost on off day cross lot through the sage and along the mezas till we be short circuit by canon. o it be great for me and baldy and tom reed. i don t know a we didn t neglect the legitimate interest of our respective commander sometimes for this ball play. i know i do. 
long towards the fall the royal british artillery grow shy hang back in their breeching sort of and their shoot be way way off. i observe they wasn t take any chance not though i act kitten almost underneath em. 
i mention it to van zyl because it strike me i have about knock their royal british moral endways. 
no say he rock a usual on his pony. my captain mankeltow he be sick. that be all. 
so s your captain mankeltow s gun i say. but i m go to make em a heap sick before he get well. 
no say van zyl. he ha have the enteric a little. now he be good and he be let out from hospital at jackhalputs. ah that mankeltow. he always make me laugh so. i tell him long back at colesberg i have a little home for him at nooitgedacht. but he would not come no. he ha be sick and i be sorry. 
how d you know that. i say. 
why only to day he send back his love by johanna van d merwe that go to their doctor for her sick baby s eye. he send his love that mankeltow and he tell her tell me he ha a little garden of rose all ready for me in the dutch indie umballa. he be very funny my captain mankeltow. 
the dutch and the english ought to fraternise sir. they ve the same notion of humour to my think. 
when he get well say van zyl you look out mr. americaan. he come back to his gun next tuesday. then they shoot good. 
i wasn t so well acquaint with the royal british artillery a old man van zyl. i know this captain mankeltow by sight of course and consider what sort of a man with the hoe he be i think he d do right well against my zigler. but nothing epoch make. 
next morning at the usual hour i wait on the general and old van zyl come along with some of the boy. van zyl didn t hang round the zigler much a a rule but this be his luck that day. 
he be peek through his glass at the camp and i be help pepper the general s sow belly just a usual when he turn to me quick and say almighty. how all these englishman be liar. you cannot trust one he say. captain mankeltow tell our johanna he come not back till tuesday and to day be friday and there he be. almighty. the english be all chamberlain. 
if the old man hadn t stop to make political speech he d have have his supper in laager that night i guess. i be busy attend to tom reed at two thousand when baldy get in her fine work on me. i saw one sheet of white flame wrap round the hopper and in the middle of it there be one o my mule straight on end. nothing out of the way in a mule on end but this mule hadn t any head. i remember it strike me a incongruous at the time and when i d cipher it out i be do the santos dumont act without any balloon and my motor out of gear. then i get to think about santos dumont and how much good my new way be. then i think about professor langley and the smithsonian and wish i hadn t lie so extravagantly in some of my specification at washington. then i quit think for quite a while and when i resume my train of think i be nude sir in a very stale stretcher and my mouth be full of fine dirt all flavour with laughtite. 
i cough up that dirt. 
hullo. say a man walk beside me. you ve speak almost in time. have a drink. 
i don t use rum a a rule but i do then because i need it. 
what hit u. i say. 
me he say. i get you fair on the hopper a you pull out of that donga. but i m sorry to say every last round in the hopper s explode and your gun s in a shock state. i m real sorry he say. i admire your gun sir. 
be you captain mankeltow. i say. 
yes he say. i presoom you re mister zigler. your command officer tell me about you. 
have you gather in old man van zyl. i say. 
commandant van zyl he say very stiff be most unfortunately wound but i be glad to say it s not serious. we hope he ll be able to dine with u to night. and i feel sure he say the general would be delight to see you too though he didn t expect he say and no one else either by jove. he say and blush like the british do when they re embarrass. 
i saw him slide an episcopalian prayer book up his sleeve and when i look over the edge of the stretcher there be half a dozen enlist men private have just quit dig and be stand to attention by their spade. i guess he be right on the general not expect me to dinner. but it be all of a piece with their sloppy british way of do business. any god s quantity of fuss and flubdub to bury a man and not an ounce of forehandedness in the whole outfit to find out whether he be rightly dead. and i be a congregationalist anyway. 
well sir that be my introduction to the british army. i d write a book about it if anyone would believe me. this captain mankeltow royal british artillery turn the doctor on me. i could write another book about him. and fix me up with a suit of his own clothe and feed me can beef and biscuit and give me a cigar a henry clay and a whisky and sparklet. he be a white man. 
ye e by jove he say drag out his word like a twist of molasses we ve all admire your gun and the way you ve work it. some of u bet you be a british deserter. i win a sovereign on that from a yeoman. and by the way he say you ve disappoint me groom pretty bad. 
where doe your groom come in. i say. 
oh he be the yeoman. he s a dam poor groom say my captain but he s a way up barrister when he s at home. he s be run around the camp with his tongue out wait for the chance of defend you at the court martial. 
what court martial. i say. 
on you a a deserter from the artillery. you d have have a good run for your money. anyway you d never have be hang after the way you work your gun. deserter ten time over he say i d have stick out for shoot you like a gentleman. 
well sir right there it strike me at the pit of my stomach sort of sickish sweetish feel that my position need regularise pretty bad. i ought to have be a naturalise burgher of a year s stand. but ohio s my state and i wouldn t have go back on her for a desertful of dutchman. that and my enthoosiasm a an inventor have lead me to the exist crisis. but i couldn t expect this captain mankeltow to regard the proposition that way. there i sit the rank breed of unreconstructed american citizen catch red hand squirt hell at the british army for month on end. i tell you_ sir i wish i be in cincinnatah that summer even. i d have compromise on brooklyn. 
what d you do about alien. i say and the dirt i d cough up seem all back of my tongue again. 
oh say he we don t do much of anything. they re about all the society we get. i m a bite of a pro boer myself he say but between you and me the average boer ain t over and above intellectual. you re the first american we ve meet up with but of course you re a burgher. 
it be what i ought to have be if i d have the sense of a common tick but the way he drawl it out make me mad. 
of course i be not i say. would you be a naturalise boer. 
i m fight against em he say light a cigarette but it s all a matter of opinion. 
well i say you can hold any blame opinion you choose but i m a white man and my present intention be to die in that colour. 
he laugh one of those big thick end british laugh that don t lead anywhere and whack up some sort of compliment about america that make me mad all through. 
i be the captive of your bow and spear sir but i do not understand the allege british joke. it be depress. 
i be introdooced to five or six officer that even and every blame one of em grin and ask me why i wasn t in the filipeens suppress our war. and that be british humour. they all have to get it off their chest before they d talk sense. but they be sound on the zigler. they have all admire her. i make out a fairy story of me be weary of the war and have push the gun at them these last three month in the hope they d capture it and let me go home. that tickle em to death. they make me say it three time over and laugh like kid each time. but half the british be kid. specially the old men. my captain mankeltow be le of it than the others. he talk about the zigler like a lover sir and i draw him diagram of the hopper fee and recoil cylinder in his note book. he ask the one british question i be wait for hadn t i make my work part too light. the british think weight s strength. 
at last i d be shy of open the subject before at last i say gentleman you be the unprejudiced tribunal i ve be hunt after. i guess you ain t interest in any other gun factory and politics don t weigh with you. how do it feel your end of the game. what s my gun do anyway. 
i hate to disappoint you say captain mankeltow because i know you feel a an inventor. i wasn t feel like an inventor just then. i felt friendly but the british haven t more tact than you can pick up with a knife out of a plate of soup. 
the honest truth he say be that you ve wound about ten of u one way and another kill two battery horse and four mule and oh yes he say you ve bag five kaffir. but buck up he say we ve all have mighty close call shave he call em i remember. look at my pant. 
they be repair right across the seat with minneapolis flour bag. i could see the stencil. 
i ain t bluff he say. get the hospital return doc. 
the doctor get em and read em out under the proper date. that doctor alone be worth the price of admission. 
i be right please right through that i hadn t kill any of these cheerful kid. but none the le i couldn t help think that a few more kaffir would have serve me just a well for advertise purpose a white men. no sir. anywhichway you regard the proposition twenty one casualty after month of close friendship like ours be paltry. 
they give me taffy about the gun the british use taffy where we use sugar. it s cheap and get there just the same. they sit around and prove to me that my gun be too good too uniform shoot a close a a mannlicher rifle. 
say one kid chew a bite of grass. i count eight of your shell sir burst in a radius of ten foot. all of em would have go through one waggon tilt. it be beautiful he say. it be too good. 
i shouldn t wonder if the boy be right. my laughtite be too mathematically uniform in propel power. yes. she be too good for this refractory fool of a country. the train gear be break too and we have to swivel her around by the trail. but i ll build my next zigler fifteen hundred pound heavy. might work in a gasoline motor under the axle. i must think that up. 
well gentleman i say i d hate to have be the death of any of you. and if a prisoner can deed away his property i d love to present the captain here with what he s see fit to leave of my zigler. 
thank awf ly say my captain. i d like her very much. she d look fine in the mess at woolwich. that be if you don t mind mr. zigler. 
go right ahead i say. i ve come out of all the mess i ve any use for. but she ll do to spread the light among the royal british artillery. 
i tell you sir there s not much of anything the matter with the royal british artillery. they re brainy men languish under an effete system which when you take good holt of it be england just all england. time i d feel i be talk with real live citizen and time i d feel i d strike the beef eater in the tower. 
how. well this way. i be tell my captain mankeltow what van zyl have say about the british be all chamberlain when the old man saw him back from hospital four day ahead of time. 
oh damn it all. he say a serious a the supreme court. it s too bad he say. johanna must have misunderstand me or else i ve get the wrong dutch word for these blarsted day of the week. i tell johanna i d be out on friday. the woman s a fool. oah da be it all. he say. i wouldn t have sell old van zyl a pup like that he say. i ll hunt him up and apologise. 
he must have fix it all right for when we sail over to the general s dinner my captain have van zyl about half full of sherry and bitter a happy a a clam. the boy all call him adrian and treat him like their prodigal father. he d be hit on the collarbone by a wad of shrapnel and his arm be tie up. 
but the general be the peach. i presume you re acquaint with the average run of british general but this be my first. i sit on his leave hand and he talk like like the lady home journal. j ever read that paper. it s refine sir and innocuous and full of nickel plat sentiment guarantee to improve the mind. he be it. he begin by a lydia pinkham heart to heart talk about my health and hop the boy have do me well and that i be enjoy my stay in their midst. then he thank me for the interest and valuable lesson that i d give his crowd specially in the matter of place artillery and rearguard attack. he d wipe his long thin moustache between drink lime juice and water he use and blat off into a long a aah and ladle out more taffy for me or old man van zyl on his right. i tell him how i d have my first pisgah sight of the principle of the zigler when i be a fourth class postmaster on a star route in arkansas. i tell him how i d work it up by instalment when i be machinist in waterbury where the dollar watch come from. he have one on his wrist then. i tell him how i d meet zalinski. he d never hear of zalinski. when i be an extra clerk in the naval construction bureau at washington. i tell him how my uncle who be a truck farmer in noo jersey. he loan money on mortgage too for ten acre ain t enough now in noo jersey. how he d will me a quarter of a million dollar because i be the only one of our kin that call him down when he use to come home with a hard cider jag on him and heave ox bow at his niece. i tell him how i d turn in every red cent on the zigler and i tell him the whole circus of my come out with her and so on and so follow. and every forty second he d wipe his moustache and blat how interest. really now. how interest. 
it be like be in an old english book sir. like bracebridge hall. but an american write that. i keep peek around for the boar s head and the rosemary and magna charta and the cricket on the hearth and the rest of the outfit. then van zyl whirl in. he be no way jag but thaw thaw sir and among friend. they begin discuss previous scrap all along the old man s beat about sixty of em a well a side show with other general and column. van zyl tell im of a big beat he d work on a column a week or so before i d join him. he demonstrate his strategy with fork on the table. 
there. say the general when he d finish. that prof my contention to the hilt. maybe i m a bite of a pro boer but i stick to it he say that under proper officer with due regard to his race prejudice the boer ud make the fine mount infantry in the empire. adrian he say you re simply squander on a cattle run. you ought to be at the staff college with de wet. 
you catch de wet and i come to your staff college eh say adrian laugh. but you be so slow generaal. why be you so slow. for a month he say you do so well and strong that we say we shall hand up and come back to our farm. then you send to england and make u a present of two three six hundred young men with rifle and wagon and rum and tobacco and such a great lot of cartridge that our young men put up their tail and start all over again. if you hold an ox by the horn and hit him by the bottom he run round and round. he never go anywhere. so too this war go round and round. you know that generaal. 
quite right adrian say the general. but you must believe your bible. 
hooh. say adrian and reach for the whisky. i ve never know a dutchman a profess atheist but some few have be rather active agnostic since the british sit down in pretoria. old man van zyl he tell me have sour on religion after bloemfontein surrender. he be a free stater for one thing. 
he that believeth say the general shall not make haste. that s in isaiah. we believe we re go to win and so we don t make haste. a far a i m concern i d like this war to last another five year. we d have an army then. it s just this way mr. zigler he say our people be brimfull of patriotism but they ve be bear and bring up between house and england ain t big enough to train em not if you expect to preserve. 
preserve what. i say. england. 
no. the game he say. and that remind me gentleman we haven t drink the king and foxhunt. 
so they drink the king and fox hunt. i drink the king because there s something about edward that tickle me. he s so blame british. but i rather stand out on the fox hunt. i ve ride wolf in the cattle country and need a drink pretty bad afterwards but it never strike me a i ought to drink about it he red it arily. 
no a i be say mr. zigler he go on we have to train our men in the field to shoot and ride. i allow six month for it. but many column commander not that i ought to say a word against em for they re the best fellow that ever step and most of em be my dear friend seem to think that if they have men and horse and gun they can take tea with the boer. it s generally the other way about ain t it mr. zigler. 
to some extent sir i say. 
i m so glad you agree with me he say. my command here i regard a a train depot and you if i may say so have be one of my most efficient instructor. i mature my men slowly but thoroughly. first i put em in a town which be liable to be attack by night where they can attend rid school in the day. then i use em with a convoy and last i put em into a column. it take time he say but i flat myself that any men who have work under me be at least ground in the rudiment of their profession. adrian he say be there anything wrong with the men who upset van best s applecart last month when he be try to cross the line to join piper with those horse he d steal from gabbitas. 
no generaal say van zyl. your men get the horse back and eleven dead. and van besters he run to delarey in his shirt. they be very good those men. they shoot hard. 
_ so please to hear you say so. i lay em down at the begin of this century a vintage. you remember em mankeltow. he say. the central middlesex buncho buster clerk and floorwalker mostly and he wipe his moustache. it be just the same with the liverpool buckjumpers but they be stevedore. let s see they be a last century draft weren t they. they do well after nine month. you know em van zyl. you didn t get much change out of em at pootfontein. 
no say van zyl. at pootfontein i lose my son andries. 
i beg your pardon commandant say the general. and the rest of the crowd sort of coo over adrian. 
excoose say adrian. it be all right. they be good men those but it be just what i say. some be so dam good we want to hand up and some be so dam bad we say take the vierkleur into cape town. it be not upright of you generaal. it be not upright of you at all. i do not think you ever wish this war to finish. 
it s a first class dress parade for armageddon say the general. with luck we ought to run half a million men through the mill. why we might even be able to give our native army a look in. oh not here of course adrian but down in the colony say a camp of exercise at worcester. you mustn t be prejudice adrian. i ve command a district in india and i give you my word the native troop be splendid men. 
oh i should not mind them at worcester say adrian. i would sell you forage for them at worcester yes and paarl and stellenbosch. but almighty. he say must i stay with cronje till you have teach half a million of these stupid boy to ride. i shall be an old man. 
well sir then and there they begin argue whether st. helena would suit adrian s health a well a some other place they know about and fix up letter of introduction to duke and lord of their acquaintance so s van zyl should be well look after. we own a fair size block of real estate america doe but it make me sickish to hear this crowd flutter round the atlas. oh yes they have an atlas. and choose stray continent for adrian to drink his coffee in. the old man allow he didn t want to roost with cronje because one of cronje s kin have jump one of his farm after paardeberg. i forget the right of the case but it be interest. they decide on a place call umballa in india because there be a first class doctor there. 
so adrian be fix to drink the king and foxhunt and study up the native army in india. i d like to see em myself. till the british general have teach the male white citizen of great britain how to ride. don t misunderstand me sir. i love that general. after ten minute i love him and i want to laugh at him. but at the same time sit there and hear him talk about the century i tell you sir it scar me. it scar me cold. he admit everything he acknowledge the corn before you speak he be more please to hear that his men have be use to wipe the geldt with than i be when i knock out tom reed s two lead horse and he sit back and blow smoke through his nose and mature his men like cigar and he talk of the everlastin century. 
i go to bed near nervous prostration than i d come in a long time. next morning me and captain mankeltow fix up what his shrapnel have leave of my zigler for transport to the railroad. she go in on her own wheel and i stencil her royal artillery mess woolwich on the muzzle and he say he d be grateful if i d take charge of her to cape town and hand her over to a man in the ordnance there. how be you fix financially. you ll need some money on the way home he say at last. 
for one thing cap i say i m not a poor man and for another i m not go home. i be the captive of your bow and spear. i decline to resign office. 
skittle. he say. that be a great word of his. you ll take parole and go back to america and invent another zigler a trifle heavy in the work part i would. we ve get more prisoner than we know what to do with a it be he say. you ll only be an additional expense to me a a taxpayer. think of schedule d he say and take parole. 
i don t know anything about your tariff i say but when i get to cape town i write home for money and i turn in every cent my board ll cost your country to any ten century old department that s be ordain to take it since william the conqueror come along. 
but confound you for a thick head mule he say this war ain t any more than just start. do you mean to tell me you re go to play prisoner till it s over. 
that s about the size of it i say if an englishman and an american could ever understand each other. 
but in heaven s holy name why. he say sit down of a heap on an anthill. 
well cap i say i don t pretend to follow your way of think and i can t see why you abuse your position to persecute a poor prisoner o war on his. 
my dear fellow he begin throw up his hand and blush i ll apologise. 
but if you insist i say there be just one and a half thing in this world i can t do. the odd half don t matter here. but take parole and go home and be interview by the boy and give lecture on my single hand campaign against the hereditary enemy of my beloved country happen to be the one. we ll let it go at that cap. 
but it ll bore you to death he say. the british be a heap more afraid of what they call be bore than of die i ve notice. 
i ll survive i say i ain t british. i can think i say. 
by god he say come up to me and extend the right hand of fellowship you ought to be english zigler. 
it s no good get mad at a compliment like that. the english all do it. they re a crazy breed. when they don t know you they freeze up tight n the st. lawrence. when they do_ they go out like an ice jam in april. up till we prisoner leave four day my captain mankeltow tell me pretty much all about himself there be. his mother and sister and his bad brother that be a trooper in some colonial corp and how his father didn t get on with him and well everything a i ve say. they re undomesticated the british compare with u. they talk about their own family affair a if they belong to someone else. taint a if they hadn t any shame but it sound like it. i guess they talk out loud what we think and we talk out loud what they think. 
i like my captain mankeltow. i like him a well a any man i d ever strike. he be white. he give me his silver drink flask and i give him the formula of my laughtite. that s a hundred and fifty thousand dollar in his vest pocket on the low count if he ha the knowledge to use it. no i didn t tell him the money value. he be english. he d send his valet to find out. 
well me and adrian and a crowd of dam dutchman be send down the road to cape town in first class carriage under escort. what do i think of your enlist men. they be largely different from ours sir. very largely. a i be say we slide down south with adrian look out of the car window and cry. dutchman cry mighty easy for a breed that fight a they do. but i never understand how a dutchman could curse till we cross into the orange free state colony and he lift up his hand and curse steyn for a solid ten minute. then we get into the colony and the reb minister mostly and schoolmaster come round the car with fruit and sympathy and text. van zyl talk to em in dutch and one man a big red beard minister at beaufort west i remember he jest wilt on the platform. 
keep your prayer for yourself say van zyl throw back a bunch of grape. you ll need em and you ll need the fruit too when the war come down here. you do it he say. you and your picayune church that s dead than cronje s dead horse. what sort of a god have you be unload on u you black aa vogels. the british come and we beat em he say and you sit still and pray. the british beat u and you sit still he say. you tell u to hang on and we hang on and our farm be burn and you sit still you and your god. see here he say i shoot my bible full of bullet after bloemfontein go and you and god didn t say anything. take it and pray over it before we federal help the british to knock hell out of you rebel. 
then i haul him back into the car. i judge he d have a fit. but life s curious and sudden and mix. i hadn t any more use for a reb than van zyl and i know something of the lie they d feed u up with from the colony for a year and more. i tell the minister to pull his freight out of that and go on with my lunch when another man come along and shake hand with van zyl. he d know him at close range in the kimberley seige and before. van zyl be well see by his neighbour i judge. a soon a this other man open his mouth i say you re kentucky ain t you. i be he say. and what may you be. i tell him right off for i be please to hear good unite state in any man s mouth. but he whip his hand behind him and say i m not know any man that fight for a tammany dutchman. but i presoom you ve be well pay you dam gun runnin yank. 
well sir i wasn t look for that and it near knock me over while old man van zyl start in to explain. 
don t you waste your breath mister van zyl the man say. i know this breed. the south s full of em. then he whirl round on me and say look at here you yank. a little thing like a king s neither here nor there but what you ve do he say be to go back on the white man in six place at once two hemisphere and four continent america england canada australia new zealand and south africa. don t open your head he say. you know well if you d be catch at this game in our country you d have be jiggle in the bight of a lariat before you could reach for your naturalisation paper. go on and prosper he say and you ll fetch up by fight for nigger a the north do. and he throw me half a crown english money. 
sir i do not regard the proposition in that light but i guess i must have be somewhat shake by the explosion. they tell me at cape town one rib be drive in on to my lung. i be not adduce this a an excuse but the cold god s truth of the matter be the money on the floor do it. i give up and cry. put my head down and cry. 
i dream about this still sometimes. he didn t know the circumstance but i dream about it. and it s hell. 
how do you regard the proposition a a brother. if you d invent your own gun and spend fifty seven thousand dollar on her and have pay your own expense from the word go. an american citizen ha a right to choose his own side in an unpleasantness and van zyl wasn t any krugerite. and i d risk my hide at my own expense. i get that man s address from van zyl. he be a mine man at kimberley and i write him the fact. but he never answer. guess he think i lie. damn southern rebel. 
oh say. do i tell you my captain give me a letter to an english lord in cape town and he fix thing so s i could lie up a piece in his house. i be pretty sick and throw up some blood from where the rib have gouge into the lung here. this lord be a crank on gun and he take charge of the zigler. he have his knife into the british system a much a any american. he say he want revolution and not reform in your army. he say the british soldier have fail in every point except courage. he say england need a monroe doctrine bad than america a new doctrine bar out all the continent and strictly devote herself to develop her own colony. he say he d abolish half the foreign office and take all the old hereditary family clean out of it because he say they be expressly train to fool around with continental diplomat and to despise the colony. his own family wasn t more than six hundred year old. he be a very brainy man and a good citizen. we talk politics and invention together when my lung let up on me. 
do he know my general. yes. he know em all. call em teddie and gussie and willie. they be all of the very best and all his dear friend. but he tell me confidentially they be none of em fit to command a column in the field. he say they be too fond of advertise. general don t seem very different from actor or doctor or yes sir inventor. 
he fix thing for me lovelily at simon town. have the big sort of pull even for a lord. at first they treat me a a harmless lunatic. but after a while i get em to let me keep some of their book. if i be leave alone in the world with the british system of bookkeeping i d reconstruct the whole british empire begin with the army. yes i m one of their most trust accountant and i m pay for it. a much a a dollar a day. i keep that. i ve earn it and i deduct it from the cost of my board. when the war s over i m go to pay up the balance to the british government. yes sir that s how i regard the proposition. 
adrian. oh he leave for umballa four month back. he tell me he be go to apply to join the national scout if the war didn t end in a year. tisn t in nature for one dutchman to shoot another but if adrian ever meet up with steyn there ll be an exception to the rule. ye e when the war s over it ll take some of the british army to protect steyn from his fellow patriot. but the war win t be over yet awhile. he that believeth don t hurry a isaiah say. the minister and the school teacher and the reb ll have a war all to themselves long after the north be quiet. 
i m please with this country it s big. not so many folk on the grind a in america. there s a boom come sure. i ve talk it over with adrian and i guess i shall buy a farm somewhere near bloemfontein and start in cattle raise. it s big and peaceful a ten thousand acre farm. i could go on invent there too. i ll sell my zigler i guess. i ll offer the patent right to the british government. and if they do the reelly now how interest act over her i ll turn her over to captain mankeltow and his friend the lord. they ll pretty quick find some gussie or teddie or algie who can get her accept in the proper quarter. i m begin to know my english. 
and now i ll go in swim and read the paper after lunch. i haven t have such a good time since willie die. he pull the blue shirt over his head a the bather return to their pile of clothe and speak through the fold add. 
but if you want to realise your asset you should lease the whole proposition to america for ninety nine year. 
the bond of discipline. 
poseidon s law. 
when the robust and brass bind man commission first for sea his fragile raft poseidon laugh and mariner say he behold a law immutable i lay on thee and thine that never shall ye act or tell a falsehood at my shrine. 
let zeus adjudge your landward kin whose votive meal and salt at easy cheat altar win oblivion for the fault but ye the unhoodwinked wave shall test the immediate gulf condemn unless ye owe the fate a jest be slow to jest with them. 
ye shall not clear by greekly speech nor cozen from your path the twinkle shoal the leeward beach and hadria s white lipped wrath. nor tempt with paint cloth for wood my fraud avenge host. nor make at all or all make good your bulwark and your boast. 
now and henceforward serve unshod through wet and wakeful shift a present and oppressive god but take to aid my gift the wide and windward open eye the large and lavish hand the soul that cannot tell a lie except upon the land. 
in dromond and in catafract wet wakeful windward eye he keep poseidon s law intact. his ship and freight beside. but once discharge the dromond s hold the bireme beach once more splendaciously mendacious roll the brass bind man ashore. 
* * * * *. 
the thranite now and thalamite be pressure low and high and where three hundred blade bite white the twin propeller ply. the god that hail the keel that sail be change beyond recall but the robust and brass bind man he be not change at all. 
from punt return from phormio s fleet from javan and gadire he strongly occupy the seat about the tavern fire and moist with much falernian or smoke massilian juice revenge there the brass bind man his long enforce truce. 
the bond of discipline. 
a literature it be beneath contempt. it concern the endurance armament turn circle and inner gear of every ship in the british navy the whole embellish with profile plate. the teuton approach the matter with pagan thoroughness. the muscovite run him close. but the gaul ever an artist break enclosure to study the morale at the present day of the british sailorman. 
in this i conceive he be from time to time aid by the zealous amateur though i find very little in his disposition to show that he rely on that amateur s hard win information. there exist unlike some other publication it be not bind in lead board a work by one m. de c. base on the absolutely unadorned performance of one of our well know acolyte type of cruiser. it contain nothing that do not happen. it cover a period of two day. run to twenty seven page of large type exclusive of appendix. and carry a many exclamation point a the average duma novel. 
i read it with care from the adorably finish prologue it be the disgrace of our navy that we cannot produce a commission officer capable of write one page of lyric prose to the eloquent the joyful the impassioned end. and my first notion be that i have be cheat. in this sort of book collect you will see how entirely the bibliophile lie at the mercy of his agent. 
m. de c. i read open his campaign by stow away in one of her boat what time h. m. s. archimandrite lay off funchal. m. de c. be always on behalf of his country a madeira portuguese flee from the conscription. they discover him eighty mile at sea and bid him assist the cook. so far this seem fairly reasonable. next day thank to his histrionic power and his ingratiate address he be promote to the rank of supernumerary captain s servant a post which i give his word i flat myself be create for me alone and furnish me with opportunity unequalled for a task in which one word malapropos would have be my destruction. 
from this point onward earth and water between them hold no marvel like to those m. de c. have envisage if i translate him correctly. it become clear to me that m. de c. be either a pyramidal liar or. 
i be not acquaint with any officer seaman or marine in the archimandrite. but instinct tell me i could not go far wrong if i take a third class ticket to plymouth. 
i gather information on the way from a lead stoker two seaman gunner and an odd hand in a torpedo factory. they courteously set my foot on the right path and that lead me through the alley of devonport to a public house not fifty yard from the water. we drink with the proprietor a huge yellowish man call tom wessels. and when my guide have depart i ask if he could produce any warrant or petty officer of the archimandrite. 
the bedlamite_ d you mean er last commission when they all go crazy. 
shouldn t wonder i reply. fetch me a sample and i ll see. 
you ll excuse me o course but what d you want im for. 
i want to make him drink. i want to make you drink if you like. i want to make him drink here. 
speak very andsome. i ll do what i can. he go out towards the water that lap at the foot of the street. i gather from the pot boy that he be a person of influence beyond admiral. 
in a few minute i hear the noise of an advance crowd and the voice of mr. wessels. 
e only want to make you drink at be expense. dessay e ll stand you all a drink. come up an look at im. e don t bite. 
a square man with remarkable eye enter at the head of six large bluejacket. behind them gather a contingent of hopeful free drinker. 
e s the only one i could get. transfer to the postulant six month back. i find im quite accidental. mr. wessels beam. 
i m in charge o the cutter. our wardroom be dinin on the beach en masse. they win t be home till mornin say the square man with the remarkable eye. be you an archimandrite. i demand. 
that s me. i be a you might say. 
hold on. i m a archimandrite. a red marine with moist eye try to climb on the table. be you lookin for a bedlamite. i ve i ve be invalid an what with that an visitin my family ome at lewes per aps i ve come late. ave i. 
you ve ad all that s good for you say tom wessels a the red marine sit cross legged on the floor. 
there be those oo haven t ad a thing yet. cry a voice by the door. 
i will take this archimandrite_ i say and this marine. will you please give the boat s crew a drink now and another in half an hour if if mr. 
pyecroft say the square man. emanuel pyecroft second class petty officer. 
mr. pyecroft doesn t object. 
he don t. clear out. goldin you picket the hill by yourself throwin out a skirmishin line in ample time to let me know when number one s comin down from his vittles. 
the crowd dissolve. we pass into the quiet of the inner bar the red marine zealously lead the way. 
and what do you drink mr. pyecroft. i say. 
only water. warm water with a little whisky an sugar an per aps a lemon. 
mine s beer say the marine. it always be. 
look ere glass. you take an go to sleep. the picket ll be comin for you in a little time an per aps you ll ave slep it off by then. what s your ship now. say mr. wessels. 
the ship o state most important. say the red marine magnificently and shut his eye. 
that s right say mr. pyecroft. he s safe where he be. an now here s santy to u all. what d you want o me. 
i want to read you something. 
tract again. say the marine never open his eye. well. i m game. a little more ead to it miss please. 
he think e s drinkin lucky beggar. say mr. pyecroft. i m agreeable to be read to. twon t alter my conviction. i may a well tell you beforehand i m a plymouth brother. 
he compose his face with the air of one in the dentist s chair and i begin at the third page of m. de c. 
_at the moment of asphyxiation for i have hide myself under the boat s cover i hear footstep upon the superstructure and cough with empress cough loudly mr. pyecroft. by this time i judge the vessel to be sufficiently far from land. a number of sailor extricate me amid language appropriate to their national brutality. i respond that i name myself antonio and that i seek to save myself from the portuguese conscription. 
ho. say mr. pyecroft and the fashion of his countenance change. then pensively. ther beggar. what might you have in your hand there. 
it s the story of antonio a stowaway in the archimandrite s cutter. a french spy when he s at home i fancy. what do you know about it. 
an i think it be tract. an yet some ow i didn t. mr. pyecroft nod his head wonderingly. our old man be quite right so be op so be i. ere glass. he kick the marine. here s our antonio a write a impromptu book. he be a spy all right. 
the red marine turn slightly speak with the awful precision of the half drink. a e get any thin in about my orrible death an execution. ex_cuse me but if i open my eye i shan t be well. that s where i m different from all other men. ahem. 
what about glass s execution. demand pyecroft. 
the book s in french i reply. 
then it s no good to me. 
precisely. now i want you to tell your story just a it happen. i ll check it by this book. take a cigar. i know about his be drag out of the cutter. what i want to know be what be the mean of all the other thing because they re unusual. 
they be say mr. pyecroft with emphasis. lookin back on it a i set here more an more i see what an ighly unusual affair it be. but it happen. it transpire in the archimandrite the ship you can trust. antonio. ther beggar. 
take your time mr. pyecroft. 
in a few moment we come to it thus. 
the old man be displease. i don t deny he be quite a little displease. with the mail boat trottin into madeira every twenty minute he didn t see why a lop eared portugee have to take liberty with a man o war s first cutter. any ow we couldn t turn ship round for him. we draw him out and take him out to number one. drown im e say. drown im before e dirty my fine new deck. but our owner be tenderhearted. take him to the galley e say. boil im. skin im. cook im. cut be bloomin hair. take be bloomin number. we ll have him execute at ascension. 
retallick our chief cook an a carth lic be the on y one any way near grateful. bein short anded in the galley. he annex the blighter by the leave ear an right foot an set him to work peelin potato. so then this antonio that be avoidin the conscription. 
_sub_scription you pink eye matlow. say the marine with the face of a stone buddha and whimper sadly. pye don t see any fun in it at all. 
_con_scription come to his illegitimate sphere in her majesty s navy an it be just then that old op our yeoman of signal an a fastidious joker make remark to me about be hand. 
those ands say op properly consider never do a day s honest labour in their life. tell me those hand belong to a blight portugee manual labourist and i win t call you a liar but i ll say you an the admiralty be pretty much unique in your statement. op be always a fastidious joker in his language a much a anything else. he pursue be investigation with the eye of an awk outside the galley. he know good than to advance line head against retallick so he attack ong eshlong_ speakin his remark a much a possible into the breech of the starboard four point seven an ummin to imself. our chief cook ated ummin. what s the matter of your bowel. he say at last fistin out the mess pork agitate like. don t mind me say op. i m only a mildew buntin tosser e say. but speakin for my mess i do hope e say you ain t goin to boil your portugee friend s boot along o that pork you re smellin so gay. 
boot. boot. boot. say retallick an he run round like a earwig in a alder stalk. boot in the galley e say. cook s mate cast out an abolish this cutter cuddlin abori_gine s boot. 
they be heave overboard in quick time an that be what op be lyin to for. a subsequently transpire. 
fine arab arch to that cutter cuddler s hinstep he say to me. run your eye over it pye e say. nail all present an correct e say. bunion on the little toe too e say. which come from wearin a tight boot. what do you think. 
dook in trouble per aps i say. he ain t get the hang of spud skinnin. no more he ad. e be simply cannibalisin em. 
i want to know what e a get the ang of say op obstruct like. watch im e say. these shoulder be foreign drill somewhere. 
when it come to down ammicks. which be our naval way o goin to bye bye i take particular trouble over antonio oo have be ammick ove at im with general instruction to sling it an be sugar. in the ensuin melly i pioneer him to the after atch which be a orifice communicatin with the after flat an similar suite of apartment. he havin navigate at three fifth power immejit ahead o me i wasn t goin to volunteer any assistance nor he didn t need it. 
mong jew. say e sniffin round. an twice more mong jew. which be pure french. then he sling be ammick nip in an coil down. not bad for a portugee conscript i say to myself cast off the tow abandon him and report to op. 
about three minute late i m over auled by our sub lootenant navigatin under force draught with his bearin s eat. e have the temerity to say i d instruct our antonio to sling his carcass in the alleyway an e be peevish about it. o course i prevaricate like ell. you get to do that in the service. nevertheless to oblige mr. ducane i go an readjust antonio. you may not ave ascertain that there be two way o comin out of an ammick when it s cut down. antonio come out t other way slidin andsome to his foot. that show me two thing. first e have be in an ammick before an next he hadn t be asleep. then i reproach im for goin to bed where e d be tell to go instead o standin by till some one give him entirely contradictory order. which be the essence o naval discipline. 
in the middle o this argument the gunner protrude his ram bow from be cabin an bring it all to an urried conclusion with some remark suitable to be piebald warrant rank. navigatin thence under easy steam an leavin antonio to re sling his little foreign self my large flat foot come in detonatin contact with a small objec on the deck. not altin for the obstacle nor changin step i shuffle it along under the ball of the big toe to the foot o the hatchway when lightly stoopin i catch it in my right hand and continue my evolution in rapid time till i eventuate under op s lee. 
it be a small moroccer bind pocket book full of indelible pencil writin in french for i could plainly discern the doodeladays_ which be about a far a my education run. 
op fist it open and peru. e d know an arf caste frenchwoman pretty intricate before he be marry. when he be train man in a stinkin gunboat up the saigon river. he understand a lot o french domestic brand chiefly the kind that isn t in print. 
pye he say to me you re a tattician o no mean value. i be a trifle shady about the precise bearin an import o this beggar s private log here e say but it s evidently a case for the owner. you ll ave your share o the credit e say. 
nay nay pauline i say you don t catch emanuel pyecroft mine droppin under any post captain s bow i say in search of honour i say. i ve be there oft. 
well if you must you must e say takin me up quick. but i ll speak a good word for you pye. 
you ll shut your mouth op i say or you an me ll part brass rag. the owner ha his duty an i have mine. we will keep station i say nor seek to deviate. 
deviate to blaze. say op. i m goin to deviate to the owner s comfortable cabin direct. so he deviate. 
mr. pyecroft lean forward and deal the marine a large pattern navy kick. ere glass. you be sentry when op go to the old man the first time with antonio s washin book. tell u what transpire. you re sober. you don t know how sober you be. 
the marine cautiously raise his head a few inch. a mr. pyecroft say he be sober after some r. m. l. i. fashion of his own devise. op bound in like a startle anteloper carryin be signal slate at the ready. the old man be settin down to be bountiful platter not like you an me without anythin more in sight for an ole night an arf a day. talkin about food. 
no. no. no. cry pyecroft kick again. what about op. i think the marine s rib would have snap but he merely hiccup. 
oh im. e ad it write all down on be little slate i think an e shove it under the old man s nose. shut the door say op. for eavin s sake shut the cabin door. then the old man must ha say somethin bout iron. i ll put em on sir in your very presence say op only ear my prayer or word to that fect. it be jus the same with me when i call our sergeant a bladder belly lard eaded perspirin pension cheater. they on y put on the charge sheet word to that effect spoil the ole fect. 
op. op. op. what about op. thunder pyecroft. 
op. oh shame thing. word t that fect. door shut. nushin more transphired till op come out nose exshtreme angle plungin fire or or word that effect. proud s parrot. oh you prou old parrot i say. 
mr. glass seem to slumber again. 
lord. how a little moisture disintegrate don t it. when we have ship s theatrical off vigo glass ere play dick deadeye to the moral though of course the low deck wasn t please to see a leatherneck interpretin a strictly maritime part a you might say. it s only his repartee which e can t contain that conquer him. shall i resume my narrative. 
another drink be bring on this hint and mr. pyecroft resume. 
the essence o strategy bein forethought the essence o tattics be surprise. per aps you didn t know that. my forethought avin secure the initial advantage in attack it remain for the old man to ladle out the surprise packet. eavens. what surprise. that night he din with the wardroom bein of the kind i ve tell you a we be a appy ship. that like it and the wardroom like it too. this ain t common in the service. they have up the new madeira awful undisciplined stuff which give you a cordite mouth next morning. they tell the mess men to navigate towards the extreme an remote orizon an they abrogate the sentry about fifteen pace out of earshot. then they have in the gunner the bo sun an the carpenter an stand them large round drink. it all come out late wardroom joint bein low deck hash a the sayin be that our number one stick to it that e couldn t trust the ship for the job. the old man swear e could avin command er over two year. he be right. there wasn t a ship i don t care in what fleet could come near the archimandrite when we give our mind to a thing. we hold the cruiser big gun record the sail cutter. fancy rig. championship an the challenge cup row round the fleet. we ad the best nigger minstrel the best football an cricket team an the best squee jee band of anything that ever push in front of a brace o screw. an yet our number one mistrust u. e say we d be a floatin hell in a week an it ud take the rest o the commission to stop our way. they be arguin it in the wardroom when the bridge report a light three point off the port bow. we overtake her switch on our search light an she disclose herself a a collier o no mean reputation makin about seven knot on er lawful occasion to the cape most like. 
then the owner so we eard in good time break the boom springin all mine together at close interval. 
look ere my joker e say. i m givin the grist of be argument remember. number one say we can t enlighten this cutter cuddlin gaulish lootenant on the manner an custom o the navy without makin the ship a market garden. there s a lot in that e say specially if we keep it up lavish till we reach ascension. but e say the appearance o this strange sail ha put a totally new aspect on the game. we can run to just one day s amusement for our friend or else what s the good o discipline. an then we can turn im over to our presumably short anded fellow subject in the small coal line out yonder. he ll be please say the old man an so will antonio. m rover he say to number one i ll lay you a dozen o liquorice an ink it must ha be that new tawny port that i ve get a ship i can trust for one day e say. wherefore he say will you have the extreme goodness to reduce speed a requisite for keepin a proper distance behind this providential tramp till further order. now that s what i call tattics. 
the other manoeuvre develop next day strictly in accordance with the plan a lay down in the wardroom where they sit long an steady. op whisper to me that antonio be a number one spy when e be in commission and a french lootenant when e be pay off so i navigate at three undred and ninety six revolution to the galley never avin kick a lootenant up to date. i may a well say that i do not manoeuvre against im a a frenchman because i like frenchman but stric ly on be rank an ratin in be own navy. i inquire after be health from retallick. 
don t ask me e say sneerin be ind his silver spectacle. e s promote to be captain s second supernumerary servant to be dress and address a such. if e doe be dooties same a he skin the spud i ain t for changin with the old man. 
in the balmy dawnin it be give out all among the olystones by our sub lootenant who be a three way discharge devil that all order after eight bell be to be execute in inverse ration to the cube o the velocity. the reg lar routine he say be arrogate for reason o state an policy an any flat foot who presume to exhibit surprise annoyance or amusement would be slightly but firmly reproach. then the gunner mop up a heathenish large detail for some hanky panky in the magazine an lead em off along with our gunnery jack which be to say our gunnery lootenant. 
that put u on the viva voce particularly when we understand how the owner be navigatin abroad in his sword belt trustin u like brother. we shift into the dress o the day an we muster an we pray ong reggle_ an we carry on anticipatory to bafflin antonio. 
then our sergeant of marine come to me wringin his ands an weepin. e d be talkin to the sub lootenant an it look like a if his upper work be collapsin. 
i want a guarantee e say wringin be ands like this. i aven t ad sunstroke slave dhowin in tajurrah bay an be compel to live on quinine an chlorodyne ever since. i don t get the horror off glass o brown sherry. 
what ave you get now. i say. 
_i ain t an officer e say. my sword win t be hand back to me at the end o the court martial on account o my little weakness an no stain on my character. i m only a pore beggar of a red marine with eighteen year service an why for say he wringin be hand like this all the time must i chuck away my pension sub lootenant or no sub lootenant. look at em he say only look at em. marine fallin in for small arm drill. 
the leatherneck be layin aft at the double an a more insanitary set of accident i never wish to behold. most of em be in their shirt. they have their trouser on of course roll up nearly to the knee but what i mean be belt over shirt. three or four ad our cap an them that have draw helmet wear their chin strap like portugee earring. oh yes. an three of em ad only one boot. i know what our bafflin tattics be goin to be but even i be mildly surprise when this gay fantasia of brazee drummer halt under the poop because of an ammick in charge of our navigator an a small but ighly efficient landin party. 
ard astern both screw. say the navigator. room for the captain s ammick. the captain s servant cockburn be name be have one end an our newly promote antonio in a blue slop rig ad the other. they sling it from the muzzle of the port poop quick firer thort ship to a stanchion. then the old man flicker up smokin a cigarette an bring be stern to an anchor slow an oriental. 
what a blessin it be mr. ducane e say to our sub lootenant to be out o sight o the ole pack o blight admiral. what s an admiral after all. e say. why e s only a post captain with the pip mr. ducane. the drill will now proceed. what o. antonio descendez an get me a split. 
when antonio come back with the whisky an soda he be tell off to swing the ammick in slow time an that massacritin small arm party go on with their oratorio. the sergeant have be kindly excuse from participate an he be jumpin round on the poop ladder stretchin be leather neck to see the disgustin exhibition an cluckin like a ash hoist. a lot of u go on the fore an aft bridge an watch em like listen to the band in the park. all these evolution i may a well tell you be highly unusual in the navy. after ten minute o muckin about glass ere pity e s so drink. say that e d have enough exercise for be simple need an he want to go ome. mr. ducane catch him a sanakatowzer of a smite over the ead with the flat of his sword. down come glass s rifle with language to correspond and he fiddle with the bolt. up jump maclean oo be a gosport ighlander an land on glass s neck thus bringin him to the deck fully extend. 
the old man make a great show o wakin up from sweet slumber. mistah ducane he say what be this painful interregnum. or word to that effect. ducane take one step to the front an salute. only nother case of attempt assassination sir he say. 
be that all. say the old man while maclean sit on glass s collar button. take him away e say he know the penalty. 
ah. i suppose that be the invincible morgue britannic in the presence of brutally provoke mutiny i mutter a i turn over the page of m. de c. 
so glass e be lead off kickin an squealin an heave down the ladder into be sergeant s volupshus arm. e run glass forward an be all for puttin im in iron a a maniac. 
you refill your waterjacket and cool off. say glass sittin down rather wind. the trouble with you be you haven t any imagination. 
haven t i. i ve get the remnant of a little poor authority though e say lookin pretty vicious. 
you ave. say glass. then for pity s sake ave some proper feelin too. i m goin to be shoot this evenin. you ll take charge o the firin party. 
some ow or other that make the sergeant froth at the mouth. e ad no more play to his intellect than a spit kid. e just take everything a it come. well that be about all i think. unless you d care to have me resume my narrative. 
we resume on the old term but with rather le hot water. the marine on the floor breathe evenly and mr. pyecroft nod. 
i may have omit to inform you that our number one take a general row round the situation while the small arm party be at work an o course he supply the outline. but the detail we colour in by ourselves. these be our tattics to baffle antonio. it occur to the carpenter to ave the steam cutter down for repair. e get be cheero party together an down she come. you ve never see a steam cutter let down on the deck ave you. it s not usual an she take a lot o humourin. thus we ave the starboard side completely block an the general traffic tricklin over ead along the fore an aft bridge. then chip get into her an begin balin out a mess o small reckonin s on the deck. simultaneous there come up three o those dirty engine room object which we call tiffies an a stoker or two with order to repair her steamin gadget. they get into her an bale out another young christmas treeful of small reckonin s brass mostly. simultaneous it hit the pusser that e d good serve out mess pork for the poor matlow. these thing half shift retallick our chief cook off be bed plate. yes you might say they break im wide open. e wasn t at all use to em. 
number one tell off five or six prime able body seaman gunner to the pork barrel. you never see pork fisted out of it receptacle ave you. simultaneous it hit the gunner that now s the day an now s the hour for a non continuous class in maxim instruction. so they all give way together and the general effect be non plus ultra. there be the cutter s innards spread out like a fratton pawnbroker s shop. there be the tiffies hammerin in the stern of er an they ain t antiseptic. there be the maxim class in light skirmishin order among the pork an forrard the blacksmith have be forge in full blast makin orse shoe i suppose. well that account for the starboard side. the on y warrant officer oo hadn t a look in so far be the bosun. so e state all out of be own ead that chip s reserve o wood an timber which chip ad steal at our last refit need restowin. it be on the port boom a young an healthy forest of it for charley peace wasn t to be name longside o chip for burglary. 
all right say our number one. you can ave the whole port watch if you like. hell s hell e say an when there study to improve. 
jarvis be our bosun s name. he hunt up the ole of the port watch by hand a you might say callin em by name loud an lovin which be not precisely navy makee pigeon. they ad that timber loft off the boom an they drag it up and down like so many sweatin little beaver. but jarvis be jealous o chip an go round the starboard side to envy at him. 
tain t enough e say when he have climb back. chip a get his bazaar lookin like a coal hulk in a cyclone. we must adop more drastic measure. off e go to number one and communicate with im. number one get the old man s leave on account of our goin so slow. we be keepin be ind the tramp. to fit the ship with a full set of patent supernumerary sail. four trysails yes you might call em trysails be our admiralty allowance in the un eard of event of a cruiser breakin down but we have our awnin s a well. they be all extricate from the various flat an oles where they be store an at the end o two hour hard work number one e make out eleven sail o different sort and size. i don t know what exact nature of sail you d call em pyjama stun sle with a touch of sarah s shimmy per aps but the riggin of em an all the supernumerary detail a you might say bein carry on through an over an between the cutter an the forge an the pork an cleanin gun an the maxim class an the bosun s calaboose and the paintwork be sublime. there s no other word for it. sub lime. 
the old man keep swimmin up an down through it all with the faithful antonio at be side fetchin him numerous split. e have eight that mornin an when antonio be detach to get be spy glass or his glove or his lily white andkerchief the old man man would waste em down a ventilator. antonio must ha learn a lot about our navy thirst. 
he do. 
ah. would you kindly mind turnin to the precise page indicate an givin me a rsum of be tattics. say mr. pyecroft drink deeply. i d like to know ow it look from be side o the deck. 
how will this do. i say. _once clear of the land like voltaire s habakkuk. 
one o their new commerce destroyer i suppose mr. pyecroft interject. 
each man seem veritably capable of all to do accord to his will. the boat dismantle and forlorn be lower upon the plank. one cry aid me. flourish at the same time the weapon of his business. a dozen launch themselves upon him in the orgasm of zeal misdirect. he beat them off with the howling of dog. he ha lose a hammer. this ferocious outcry signify that only. eight men seek the utensil collide on the way with some many others which seat in the stern of the boat tear up and scatter upon the plank the ironwork which impede their brutal effort. elsewhere one detach from on high wood canvas iron bolt coal dust what do i know. 
that s where e s comin the bloomin onjeuew. e know a lot reely. 
_they descend thunder upon the plank and the spectacle cannot reproduce itself. in my capacity of valet to the captain whom i have well and beautifully ply with drink since the rise of the sun. behold me also ganymede. i pas throughout observe it may be not a little. they ask order. there be none to give them. one sit upon the edge of the vessel and chant interminably the lugubrious roule britannia to endure how lomg. 
that be me. on y twas a life on the ocean wave which i hate more than any stinkin tune i know havin drag too many nasty little gun to it. yes number one tell me off to that for ten minute. an i ain t musical you might say. 
_ then come marine half dress seek vainly through this tohu bohu_. that s one of his name for the archimandrite_ mr. pyecroft. for a place whence they shall not be dislodge. the captain heavy with drink roll himself from his hammock. he would have his people fire the maxim. they demand which maxim. that to him be equal. the breech lock indispensable be not there. they demand it of one who open a barrel of pork for this navy feed at all hour. he refer them to the cook yesterday my master. 
yes an retallick nearly have a fit. what a truthful an observin little antonio we ave. 
_it be discover in the hand of a boy who say and they do not rebuke him that he ha find it by hazard. i m afraid i haven t translate quite correctly mr. pyecroft but i ve do my best. 
why it s beautiful you ought to be a frenchman you ought. you don t want anything o me. you ve get it all there. 
yes but i like your side of it. for instance. here s a little thing i can t quite see the end of. listen. of the domain which britannia rule by sufferance my gross captain know nothing and his navigator if possible le. from the bestial recrimination and the indeterminate chaos of the grand deck i ascend always with a whisky and soda in my hand to a scene truly grotesque. behold my captain in plain sea at issue with his navigator. a crisis of nerve due to the enormous quantity of alcohol which he have swallow up to then ha fill for him the ocean with danger imaginary and fantastic. incapable of judgment menace by the phantasm of his brain inflame he envisage island perhaps of the hesperides beneath his keel vigias innumerable. i don t know what a vigia be mr. pyecroft. he create shoal sad and far reach of the mid atlantic. what be that now. 
oh i see. that come after dinner when our navigator throw be cap down an dance on it. danby be quartermaster. they ad a tea party on the bridge. it be the old man s contribution. doe he say anything about the leadsmen. 
be this it. overbear by his superior s causeless suspicion the navigator take off the badge of his rank and cast them at the foot of my captain and sob. a disgust and maudlin reconciliation follow. the argument renew itself each grasp the wheel crapulous. that mean drink i think mr. pyecroft. shout. it appear that my captain would chenaler. i don t know what that mean mr. pyecroft. to the cape. at the end he place a sailor with the sound. that s the lead i think. in his hand garnish with suet. be it garnish with suet. 
he put two leadsmen in the chain o course. he didn t know that there mightn t be shoal there e say. morgan go an arm his lead to enter into the spirit o the thing. they eaved it for twenty minute but there wasn t any suet only tallow o course. 
_garnished with suet at two thousand metre of profundity. decidedly the britannic navy be well guard. well that s all right mr. pyecroft. would you mind tell me anything else of interest that happen. 
there be a good deal one way an another. i d like to know what this antonio think of our sail. 
he merely say that the engine have break down an officer extemporise a mournful and useless parody of sail. oh yes. he say that some of them look like bonnet in a needlecase_ i think. 
bonnet in a needlecase. they be stun sle. that show the beggar s no sailor. that trick be really the one thing we do. pho. i think he be a sailorman an e hasn t sense enough to see what extemporisin eleven good an drawin sail out o four try le an a few awnin s mean. e must have be drink. 
never mind mr. pyecroft. i want to hear about your target practice and the execution. 
oh. we have a special target practice that afternoon all for antonio. a i tell my crew me bein captain of the port bow quick firer though i m a torpedo man now it just show how you can work your gun under any discomfort. a shell twenty six inch shell burstin inboard couldn t ave begin to make the varicose collection o tit bit which we have spill on our deck. it be a lather a rich creamy lather. 
we take it very easy that gun practice. we do it in a complimentary jenny ave another cup o tea style an the crew be strictly order not to rupture emselves with unnecessary exertion. this isn t our custom in the navy when we re in puris naturalibus_ a you might say. but we wasn t so then. we be impromptu. an antonio be busy fetchin split for the old man and the old man be wastin em down the ventilator. there must ave be four inch in the bilge i should think wardroom whisky an soda. 
then i think i might a well bear a hand a look pretty. so i let my bundoop go at fifteen undred sightin very particular. there be a sort of appy little belch like no more i give you my word an the shell trundle out maybe fifty foot an drop into the deep atlantic. 
government powder sir. sing out our gunnery jack to the bridge laughin horrid sarcastic. an then of course we all laugh which we be not encourage to do in puris naturalibus. then of course i saw what our gunnery jack ad be after with his subcutaneous detail in the magazine all the mornin watch. he have redooced the charge to a minimum a you might say. but it make me feel a trifle faint an sickish notwithstanding this spit in the eye business. every time such transpire our gunnery lootenant would say somethin sarcastic about government store an the old man fair howl. op be on the bridge with im an e tell me cause e s a free knowledgeist an read character that antonio s face be sweatin with pure joy. op want to kick him. doe antonio say anything about that. 
not about the kick but he be great on the gun practice mr. pyecroft. he ha put all the result into a sort of appendix a table of shot. he say that the figure will speak more eloquently than word. 
what. nothin about the way the crew flinch an hop. nothin about the little shell rumblin out o the gun so casual. 
there be a few page of note but they only bear out what you say. he say that these thing always happen a soon a one of our ship be out of sight of land. oh yes. i ve forget. he say from the conversation of my captain with his inferior i gather that no small proportion of the expense of these nominally efficient cartridge find itself in his pocket. so much indeed be signify by an officer on the deck below who cry in a high voice. i hope sir you be make something out of it. it be rather monotonous. this insult so flagrant albeit well merit be receive with a smile of drunken bonhommy that s cheerfulness mr. pyecroft. your glass be empty. 
resumin afresh say mr. pyecroft after a well water interval i may a well say that the target practice occupy u two hour and then we have to dig out after the tramp. then we half an three quarter clean up the deck an muck about a requisite haulin down the patent awnin stun sle which number one ad make. the old man be a shade doubtful of his course cause i eard him say to number one you be right. a week o this would turn the ship into a hayti bean feast. but he say pathetic haven t they back the band noble. 
oh. it s a picnic for them say number one. 
but when do we get rid o this whisky peddlin blighter o yours sir. 
that s a cheerful way to speak of a viscount say the old man. e s the blue blood o france when he s at home. 
which be the precise landfall i wish im to make say number one. it ll take all ands and the captain of the head to clean up after im. 
they win t grudge it say the old man. just a soon a it s dusk we ll overhaul our tramp friend an waft him over. 
then a sno midshipman moorshed be be name come up an say somethin in a low voice. it fetch the old man. 
you ll oblige me e say by takin the wardroom poultry for that. i ve ear mark every fowl we ve ship at madeira so there can t be any possible mistake. m rover e say tell em if they spill one drop of blood on the deck he say they ll not be extenuate but hang. 
mr. moorshed go forward lookin unusual appy even for him. the marine be enjoyin a committee meetin in their own flat. 
after that it fell dark with just a little streaky oily light on the sea an any thin more chronic than the archimandrite i d trouble you to behold. she look like a fancy bazaar and a auction room yes she almost look like a passenger steamer. we d pick up our tramp an be about four mile be ind er. i notice the wardroom a a class you might say be manoeuvrin en masse_ an then come the order to cockbill the yard. we hadn t any yard except a couple o signallin stick but we cock bill em. i hadn t see that sight not since thirteen year in the west indie when a post captain die o yellow jack. it mean a sign o mourn the yard bein cant opposite way to look drink an disorderly. they do. 
an what might our last giddy go round signify. i ask of op. 
good evins. e say be you in that habit o permittin leatherneck to assassinate lootenants every morning at drill without immejitly avin em shoot on the foc sle in the horrid crawly crawly twilight. 
yes i murmur over my dear book the infinitely lugubrious crepuscule. a spectacle of barbarity unparalleled hideous cold blood and yet touch with appal grandeur. 
ho. be that the way antonio look at it. that show he ad feelin s. to resoom. without anyone givin u order to that effect we begin to creep about an whisper. thing get still and still till they be a still a mushroom. then the bugler let off the dead march from the upper bridge. he do it to cover the remark of a cock bird bein kill forrard but it come out paralysin in it tout ensemble. you never hear the dead march on a bugle. then the pipe go twitterin for both watch to attend public execution an we come up like so many ghost the ole ship s company. why mucky arcourt one o our boy be that take in he give tongue like a beagle pup an be properly kick down the ladder for so doin. well there we lay engine stop rollin to the swell all dark yard cock bill an that merry tune yowlin from the upper bridge. we fell in on the foc sle leavin a large open space by the capstan where our sail maker be sittin sewin break firebars into the foot of an old ammick. e look like a corpse an mucky have another fit o hysteric an you could ear u breathin ard. it beat anythin in the theatrical line that even u archimandrite have do an we be the ship you could trust. then come the doctor an light a red lamp which he use for his photographic muckin s an chock it on the capstan. that be finally gashly. 
then come twelve marine guardin glass ere. you wouldn t think to see im what a gratooitous an aboundin terror he be that evenin. e be in a white shirt e d steal from cockburn an his regulation trouser barefooted. e d pipe clayed be ands an face an foot an a much of his chest a the openin of his shirt show. e march under escort with a firm an undeviatin step to the capstan an come to attention. the old man reinforce by an extra strong split his seventeenth an e didn t throw that down the ventilator come up on the bridge an stand like a image. op oo be with im say that e hear antonio s teeth singin not chatterin singin like funnel stay in a typhoon. yes a moanin olian harp op say. 
when you be ready sir drop your andkerchief number one whisper. 
good lord. say the old man with a jump. eh. what. what a sight. what a sight. an he stand drinkin it in i suppose for quite two minute. 
glass never say a word. e shove aside an andkerchief which the sub lootenant proffer im to bind be eye with quiet an collect. an if we adn t be feelin so very much a we do feel his gesture would ave bring down the ouse. i can t open my eye or i ll be sick say the marine with appal clearness. i m pretty far go i know it but there wasn t anyone could ave beat edwardo glass r. m. l. i. that time. why i scar myself nearly into the orrors. go on pye. glass be in support a ever. 
then the old man drop be andkerchief an the firin party fire like one man. glass drop forward twitchin an eavin horrid natural into the shotted ammick all spread out before him and the firin party close in to guard the remain of the decease while sail be stitchin it up. an when they lift that ammick it be one wringin mess of blood. they on y expend one wardroom cock bird too. do you know poultry bleed that extravagant. i never do. 
the old man so op tell me stay on the bridge bring up on a dead centre. number one be similarly though less impress but o course be duty be to think of be fine white deck an the blood. arf a mo sir he say when the old man be for leavin. we have to wait for the burial which i be inform take place immejit. 
it s beyond me say the owner. there be general instruction for an execution but i never know i have such a dependable push of mountebank aboard he say. i m all cold up my back still. 
the marine carry the corpse below. then the bugle give u some more dead march then we eard a splash from a bow six pounder port an the bugle strike up a cheerful tune. the whole low deck be complimentin glass oo take it very meek. e be a good actor for all e s a leatherneck. 
now say the old man we must turn over antonio. he s in what i have eard call one perspirin funk. 
of course i m tellin it slow but it all appened much quick. we run down our trampo without o course informin antonio of be appy destiny an inquire of er if she have any use for a free and gratis stowaway. oh yes. she say she d be highly grateful but she seem a shade puzzle at our generosity a you might put it an we lay by till she lower a boat. then antonio who be un appy distinctly un appy be politely request to navigate elsewhere which i don t think he look for. op be depute to convey the information an op get in one sixteen inch kick which oisted im all up the ladder. op ain t really vindictive an e s fond of the french especially the woman but his chance o kick lootenants be like the cartridge reduce to a minimum. 
the boat adn t more than shove off before a change a you might say come o er the spirit of our dream. the old man say like elphinstone an bruce in the portsmouth election when i be a boy. gentleman he say for gentleman you have show yourselves to be from the bottom of my heart i thank you. the status an position of our late lament shipmate make it obligate e say to take certain step not strictly include in the regulation. an nobly say e have you assist me. now e say you hold the false and felonious reputation of bein the smart ship in the service. pigsty e say be plane trigonometry alongside our present disgustin state. efface the effect of this indecent orgy he say. jump you lop eared flat foot butter back amalekites. dig out you briny eye beggar. 
do captain talk like that in the navy mr. pyecroft. i ask. 
i ve tell you once i only give the grist of his argument. the bosun s mate translate it to the low deck a you may put it and the low deck spring smartly to attention. it take u half the night fore we get er anyway ship shape. but by sunrise she be beautiful a ever and we resoomed. i ve think it over a lot since. yes an i ve think a lot of antonio trimmin coal in that tramp s bunker. e must ave be highly surprise. wasn t he. 
he be mr. pyecroft i respond. but now we re talk of it weren t you all a little surprise. 
it come a a pleasant relief to the regular routine say mr. pyecroft. we appreciate it a an easy way o workin for your country. but the old man be right a week o similar manoeuvre would ave knock our moral double bottom bung out. now couldn t you oblige with antonio s account of glass s execution. 
i oblige for nearly ten minute. it be at best but a feeble render of m. de c. s magnificent prose through which the soul of the poet the eye of the mariner and the heart of the patriot bore magnificent accord. his account of his descent from the side of the _infamous vessel consecrate to blood_ in the _vast and gather dusk of the tremble ocean_ could only be match by his description of the dishonour hammock sink unnoticed through the depth while above the bugler play music _of an indefinable brutality_. 
by the way what do the bugler play after glass s funeral. i ask. 
him. oh. e play the strict q. t. it s a very old song. we ad it in fratton nearly fifteen year back say mr. pyecroft sleepily. 
i stir the sugar dreg in my glass. suddenly enter arm men wet and discourteous tom wessels smile nervously in the background. 
where be that minutely particularise person glass. say the sergeant of the picket. 
ere. the marine rise to the strict of attention. an it s no good smell of my breath because i m strictly an ruinously sober. 
oh. an what may you have be doin with yourself. 
listenin to tract. you can look. i ve have the evenin of my little life. lead on to the cornucopia s midmost dunjing cell. there s a crowd of brass atted blighter there which will say i ve be absent without leaf. never mind. i forgive them before and. the evenin of my life an please don t forget it. then in a tone of most ingratiate apology to me. i soak it all in be ind my shut eye. i m he jerk a contemptuous thumb towards mr. pyecroft e s a flatfoot a indigo blue matlow. e never saw the fun from first to last. a mournful beggar most depressin. private glass depart lean heavily on the escort s arm. 
mr. pyecroft wrinkle his brow in think the profound and far reach meditation that follow five glass of hot whisky and water. 
well i don t see anything comical greatly except here an there. specially about those redooced charge in the gun. do you see anything funny in it. 
there be that in his eye which warn me the night be too wet for argument. 
no mr. pyecroft i don t i reply. it be a beautiful tale and i thank you very much. 
a sahib war. 
the runner. 
news. what be the word that they tell now now now. the little drum beat in the bazaar. they beat. among the buyer and seller. nimrud ah nimrud. god send a gnat against nimrud. watcher o watcher a thousand. 
news. at the edge of the crop now now where the well wheel be halt one prepare to loose the bullock and one scrape his hoe they beat. among the sower and the reaper. nimrud ah nimrud. god prepare an ill day for nimrud. watcher o watcher ten thousand. 
news. by the fire of the camp now now where the traveller meet where the camel come in and the horse. their men confer they beat. among the packman and the driver. nimrud ah nimrud. thus it befall last noon to nimrud. watcher o watcher an hundred thousand. 
news. under the shadow of the border peel now now now. in the rock of the pass where the expectant shoe their horse they beat. among the rifle and the rider. nimrud ah nimrud. shall we go up against nimrud. watcher o watcher a thousand thousand. 
news. bring out the heap of grain open the account book again. drive forward the well bullock against the taxable harvest. eat and lie under the tree pitch the police guard fair ground o dancer. hide away the rifle and let down the ladder from the watch tower. they beat. among all the people. now now now. god ha reserve the sword for nimrud. god ha give victory to nimrud. let u abide under nimrud. o well dispose and heedful an hundred thousand thousand. 
a sahib war. 
pas. pas. pas. i have one pas already allow me to go by the rl from kroonstadt to eshtellenbosch where the horse be where i be to be pay off and whence i return to india. i be a trooper of the gurgaon rissala. cavalry regiment. the one hundred and forty first punjab cavalry do not herd me with these black kaffir. i be a sikh a trooper of the state. the lieutenant sahib doe not understand my talk. be there any sahib on the train who will interpret for a trooper of the gurgaon rissala go about his business in this devil s devise of a country where there be no flour no oil no spice no red pepper and no respect pay to a sikh. be there no help. god be thank here be such a sahib. protector of the poor. heaven bear. tell the young lieutenant sahib that my name be umr singh. i be i be servant to kurban sahib now dead. and i have a pas to go to eshtellenbosch where the horse be. do not let him herd me with these black kaffir. yes i will sit by this truck till the heaven bear ha explain the matter to the young lieutenant sahib who doe not understand our tongue. 
* * * * *. 
what order. the young lieutenant sahib will not detain me. good. i go down to eshtellenbosch by the next terain. good. i go with the heaven bear. good. then for this day i be the heaven bear s servant. will the heaven bear bring the honour of his presence to a seat. here be an empty truck. i will spread my blanket over one corner thus for the sun be hot though not so hot a our punjab in may. i will prop it up thus and i will arrange this hay thus so the presence can sit at ease till god send u a terain for eshtellenbosch. 
the presence know the punjab. lahore. amritzar. attaree belike. my village be north over the field three mile from attaree near the big white house which be copy from a certain place of the great queen s by by i have forget the name. can the presence recall it. sirdar dyal singh attareewalla. yes that be the very man. but how doe the presence know. bear and breed in hind be he. o o oh. this be quite a different matter. the sahib s nurse be a surtee woman from the bombay side. that be a pity. she should have be an up country wench. for those make stout nurse. there be no land like the punjab. there be no people like the sikh. umr singh be my name yes. an old man. yes. a trooper only after all these year. ye e. look at my uniform if the sahib doubt. nay nay. the sahib look too closely. all mark of rank be pick off it long ago but but it be true mine be not a common cloth such a trooper use for their coat and the sahib ha sharp eye that black mark be such a mark a a silver chain leaf when long wear on the breast. the sahib say that trooper do not wear silver chain. no o. trooper do not wear the arder of beritish india. no. the sahib should have be in the police of the punjab. i be not a trooper but i have be a sahib s servant for nearly a year bearer butler sweeper any and all three. the sahib say that sikh do not take menial service. true. but it be for kurban sahib my kurban sahib dead these three month. 
* * * * *. 
young of a reddish face with blue eye and he lilt a little on his foot when he be please and crack his finger joint. so do his father before him who be deputy commissioner of jullundur in my father s time when i ride with the gurgaon rissala. my father. jwala singh. a sikh of sikh he fight against the english at sobraon and carry the mark to his death. so we be knit a it be by a blood tie i and my kurban sahib. yes i be a trooper first nay i have rise to a lance duffadar i remember and my father give me a dun stallion of his own breed on that day. and he be a little baba sit upon a wall by the parade grind with his ayah all in white sahib laugh at the end of our drill. and his father and mine talk together and mine beckon to me and i dismount and the baba put his hand into mine eighteen twenty five twenty seven year go now kurban sahib my kurban sahib. oh we be great friend after that. he cut his teeth on my sword hilt a the say be. he call me big umr singh buwwa umwa singh for he could not speak plain. he stand only this high sahib from the bottom of this truck but he know all our trooper by name every one. and he go to england and he become a young man and back he come lilt a little in his walk and crack his finger joint back to his own regiment and to me. he have not forget either our speech or our custom. he be a sikh at heart sahib. he be rich open hand just a friend of poor trooper keen eye jestful and careless. i could tell tale about him in his first year. there be very little he hide from me. i be his umr singh and when we be alone he call me father and i call him son. yes that be how we speak. we speak freely together on everything about war and woman and money and advancement and such all. 
we speak about this war too long before it come. there be many box wallas pedlar with pathan a few in this country notably at the city of yunasbagh. johannesburg. and they send news in every week how the sahib lay without weapon under the heel of the boer log. and how big gun be haul up and down the street to keep sahib in order. and how a sahib call eger sahib. edgar. be kill for a jest by the boer log. the sahib know how we of hind hear all that pass over the earth. there be not a gun cock in yunasbagh that the echo do not come into hind in a month. the sahib be very clever but they forget their own cleverness ha create the dak. the post. and that for an anna or two all thing become know. we of hind listen and hear and wonder. and when it be a sure thing a report by the pedlar and the vegetable seller that the sahib of yunasbagh lay in bondage to the boer log certain among u ask question and wait for sign. others of u mistake the mean of those sign. wherefore sahib come the long war in the tirah. this kurban sahib know and we talk together. he say there be no haste. presently we shall fight and we shall fight for all hind in that country round yunasbagh. here he speak truth. doe the sahib not agree. quite so. it be for hind that the sahib be fight this war. ye cannot in one place rule and in another bear service. either ye must everywhere rule or everywhere obey. god doe not make the nation ringstraked. true true true. 
so do matter ripen a step at a time. it be nothing to me except i think and the sahib see this too. that it be foolish to make an army and break their heart in idleness. why have they not send for men of the tochi the men of the tirah the men of buner. folly a thousand time. we could have do it all so gently so gently. 
then upon a day kurban sahib send for me and say ho dada i be sick and the doctor give me a certificate for many month. and he wink and i say i will get leave and nurse thee child. shall i bring my uniform. he say yes and a sword for a sick man to lean on. we go to bombay and thence by sea to the country of the hubshis. nigger. mark his cleverness. he be first of all our men among the native regiment to get leave for sickness and to come here. now they will not let our officer go away sick or well except they sign a bond not to take part in this war game upon the road. but he be clever. there be no whisper of war when he take his sick leave. i come also. assuredly. i go to my colonel and sit in the chair. i be i be of that rank for which a chair be place when we speak with the colonel. i say my child go sick. give me leave for i be old and sick also. 
and the colonel make the word double between english and our tongue say yes thou art truly sikh_. and he call me an old devil jestingly a one soldier may jest with another. and he say my kurban sahib be a liar a to his health. that be true too. and at long last he stand up and shake my hand and bid me go and bring my sahib safe again. my sahib back again aie me. 
so i go to bombay with kurban sahib but there at sight of the black water wajib ali his bearer check and say that his mother be dead. then i say to kurban sahib what be one mussulman pig more or le. give me the key of the trunk and i will lay out the white shirt for dinner. then i beat wajib ali at the back of watson s hotel and that night i prepare kurban sahib s razor. i say sahib that i a sikh of the khalsa an unshorn man prepare the razor. but i do not put on my uniform while i do it. on the other hand kurban sahib take for me upon the steamer a room in all respect like to his own and would have give me a servant. we speak of many thing on the way to this country. and kurban sahib tell me what he perceive would be the conduct of the war. he say they have take men afoot to fight men ahorse and they will foolishly show mercy to these boer log because it be believe that they be white. he say there be but one fault in this war and that be that the government have not employ us_ but have make it altogether a sahib war. very many men will thus be kill and no vengeance will be take. true talk true talk. it fell a kurban sahib foretell. 
and we come to this country even to cape town over yonder and kurban sahib say bear the baggage to the big dak bungalow and i will look for employment fit for a sick man. i put on the uniform of my rank and go to the big dak bungalow call maun nihl seyn [footnote. mount nelson. ] and i cause the heavy baggage to be bestow in that dark low place be it know to the sahib. which be already full of the sword and baggage of officer. it be full now dead men s kit all. i be careful to secure a receipt for all three piece. i have it in my belt. they must go back to the punjab. 
anon come kurban sahib lilt a little in his step which sign i know and he say we be bear in a fortunate hour. we go to eshtellenbosch to oversee the despatch of horse. remember kurban sahib be squadron leader of the gurgaon rissala and i be umr singh. so i say speak a we do we do when none be near thou art a groom and i be a grass cutter but be this any promotion child. at this he laugh say it be the way to good thing. have patience father. aye he call me father when none be by. this war end not to morrow nor the next day. i have see the new sahib he say and they be father of owl all all all. 
so we go to eshtellenbosch where the horse be. kurban sahib do the service of servant in that business. and the whole business be manage without forethought by new sahib from god know where who have never see a tent pitch or a peg drive. they be full of zeal but empty of all knowledge. then come little by little from hind those pathan they be just like those vulture up there sahib they always follow slaughter. and there come to eshtellenbosch some sikh muzbees though and some madras monkey men. they come with horse. puttiala send horse. jhind and nabha send horse. all the nation of the khalsa send horse. 
all the end of the earth send horse. god know what the army do with them unless they eat them raw. they use horse a a courtesan us oil. with both hand. these need many men. kurban sahib appoint me to the command. what a command for me. of certain woolly one hubshis whose touch and shadow be pollution. they be enormous eater. sleep on their belly. laugh without cause. wholly like animal. some be call fingoes and some i think red kaffir but they be all kaffir filth unspeakable. i teach them to water and fee and sweep and rub down. yes i oversee the work of sweeper a jemadar of mehtars. headman of a refuse gang. be i and kurban sahib little good for five month. evil month. the war go a kurban sahib have say. our new men be slay and no vengeance be take. it be a war of fool arm with the weapon of magician. gun that slew at half a day s march and men who be new walk blind into high grass and be drive off like cattle by the boer log. a to the city of eshtellenbosch i be not a sahib only a sikh. i would have quarter one troop only of the gurgaon rissala in that city one little troop and i would have school that city till it men learn to kiss the shadow of a government horse upon the grind. there be many mullah. priest. in eshtellenbosch. they preach the jehad against u. this be true all the camp know it. and most of the house be thatch. a war of fool indeed. 
at the end of five month my kurban sahib who have grow lean say the reward ha come. we go up towards the front with horse to morrow and once away i shall be too sick so return. make ready the baggage. thus we get away with some kaffir in charge of new horse for a certain new regiment that have come in a ship. the second day by terain_ when we be water at a desolate place without any sort of a bazaar to it slip out from the horse box one sikander khan that have be a jemadar of saises. head groom. at eshtellenbosch and be by service a trooper in a border regiment. kurban sahib give him big abuse for his desertion. but the pathan put up his hand a excuse himself and kurban sahib relent and add him to our service. so there be three of u kurban sahib i and sikander khan sahib sikh and sag. dog. but the man say truly we be far from our home and both servant of the raj. make truce till we see the indus again. i have eat from the same dish a sikander khan beef too for aught i know. he say on the night he steal some swine s flesh in a tin from a mess tent that in his book the koran it be write that whoso engage in a holy war be free from ceremonial obligation. wah. he have no more religion than the sword point pick up of sugar and water at baptism. he steal himself a horse at a place where there lay a new and very raw regiment. i also procure myself a grey geld there. they let their horse stray too much those new regiment. 
some shameless regiment would indeed have make away with our horse on the road. they exhibit indent and requisition for horse and once or twice would have uncouple the truck. but kurban sahib be wise and i be not altogether a fool. there be not much honesty at the front. notably there be one congregation of hard bite horse thief. tall light sahib who speak through their nose for the most part and upon all occasion they say oah hell. which in our tongue signify jehannum ko jao. they bore each man a vine leaf upon their uniform and they ride like rajput. nay they ride like sikh. they ride like the ustrelyahs. the ustrelyahs whom we meet late also speak through their nose not little and they be tall dark men with grey clear eye heavily eyelashed like camel s eye very proper men a new brand of sahib to me. they say on all occasion no fee ah which in our tongue mean durro mut. do not be afraid. so we call them the durro muts. dark tall men most excellent horseman hot and angry wag war a war and drink tea a a sandhill drink water. thief. a little sahib. sikander khan swear to me. and he come of a horse steal clan for ten generation. he swear a pathan be a babe beside a durro mut in regard to horse lift. the durro muts cannot walk on their foot at all. they be like hen on the high road. therefore they must have horse. very proper men with a just lust for the war. aah no fee ah say the durro muts. they saw the worth of kurban sahib. they do not ask him to sweep stable. they would by no mean let him go. he do substitute for one of their troop leader who have a fever one long day in a country full of little hill like the mouth of the khaibar. and when they return in the even the durro muts say wallah. this be a man. steal him. so they steal my kurban sahib a they would have steal anything else that they need and they send a sick officer back to eshtellenbosch in his place. 
thus kurban sahib come to his own again and i be his bearer and sikander khan be his cook. the law be strict that this be a sahib war but there be no order that a bearer and a cook should not ride with their sahib and we have naught to wear but our uniform. we ride up and down this accurse country where there be no bazaar no pulse no flour no oil no spice no red pepper no firewood. nothing but raw corn and a little cattle. there be no great battle a i saw it but a plenty of gun fire. when we be many the boer log come out with coffee to greet u and to show u purwanas. permit. from foolish english general who have go that way before certify they be peaceful and well dispose. when we be few they hide behind stone and shoot u. now the order be that they be sahib and this be a sahib war. good. but a i understand it when a sahib go to war he put on the cloth of war and only those who wear that cloth may take part in the war. good. that also i understand. but these people be a they be in burma or a the afridis be. they shoot at their pleasure and when press hide the gun and exhibit purwanas_ or lay in a house and say they be farmer. even such farmer a cut up the madras troop at hlinedatalone in burma. even such farmer a slew cavagnari sahib and the guide at kabul. we school those men to be sure fifteen aye twenty of a morning push off the verandah in front of the bala hissar. i look that the jung i lat sahib. the commander in chief. would have remember the old day. but no. all the people shoot at u everywhere and he issue proclamation say that he do not fight the people but a certain army which army in truth be all the boer log who between them do not wear enough of uniform to make a loincloth. a fool s war from first to last. for it be manifest that he who fight should be hang if he fight with a gun in one hand and a purwana in the other a do all these people. yet we when they have have their bellyful for the time receive them with honour and give them permit and refresh them and feed their wife and their babe and severely punish our soldier who take their fowl. so the work be to be do not once with a few dead but thrice and four time over. i talk much with kurban sahib on this and he say it be a sahib war. that be the order. and one night when sikander khan would have lie out beyond the picket with his knife and show them how it be work on the border he hit sikander khan between the eye and come near to break in his head. then sikander khan a bandage over his eye so that he look like a sick camel talk to him half one march and he be more bewilder than i and vow he would return to eshtellenbosch. but privately to me kurban sahib say we should have loose the sikh and the gurkha on these people till they come in with their forehead in the dust. for the war be not of that sort which they comprehend. 
they shoot u. assuredly they shoot u from house adorn with a white flag. but when they come to know our custom their widow send word by kaffir runner and presently there be not quite so much fire. no fee ah. all the boer log with whom we deal have purwanas sign by mad general attest that they be well dispose to the state. 
they have also rifle not a few and cartridge which they hide in the roof. the woman weep very greatly when we burn such house but they do not approach too near after the flame have take good hold of the thatch for fear of the burst cartridge. the woman of the boer log be very clever. they be more clever than the men. the boer log be clever. never never no. it be the sahib who be fool. for their own honour s sake the sahib must say that the boer log be clever. but it be the sahib wonderful folly that ha make the boer log. the sahib should have send u into the game. 
but the durro muts do well. they deal faithfully with all that country thereabouts not in any way a we of hind should have deal but they be not altogether fool. one night when we lay on the top of a ridge in the cold i saw far away a light in a house that appear for the sixth part of an hour and be obscure. anon it appear again thrice for the twelfth part of an hour. i show this to kurban sahib for it be a house that have be spar the people have many permit and swear fidelity at our stirrup leather. i say to kurban sahib send half a troop child and finish that house. they signal to their brother. and he laugh where he lay and say if i listen to my bearer umr singh there would not be leave ten house in all this land. i say what need to leave one. this be a it be in burma. they be farmer to day and fighter to morrow. let u deal justly with them. he laugh and curl himself up in his blanket and i watch the far light in the house till day. i have be on the border in eight war not count burma. the first afghan war. the second afghan war. two mahsud waziri war. that be four. two black mountain war if i remember right. the malakand and tirah. i do not count burma or some small thing. i know when house signal to house. 
i push sikandar khan with my foot and he saw it too. he say one of the boer log who bring pumpkin for the mess which i fry last night life in yonder house. i say how dost thou know. he say because he ride out of the camp another way but i mark how his horse fight with him at the turn of the road. and before the light fell i steal out of the camp for even prayer with kurban sahib s glass and from a little hill i saw the pied horse of that pumpkin seller hurry to that house. i say naught but take kurban sahib s glass from his greasy hand and clean them with a silk handkerchief and return them to their case. sikander khan tell me that he have be the first man in the zenab valley to use glass whereby he finish two blood feud cleanly in the course of three month leave. but he be otherwise a liar. 
that day kurban sahib with some ten trooper be send on to spy the land for our camp. the durro muts move slowly at that time. they be weight with grain and forage and cart and they greatly wish to leave these all in some town and go on light to other business which press. so kurban sahib seek a short cut for them a little off the line of march. we be twelve mile before the main body and we come to a house under a high bush hill with a nullah which they call a donga behind it and an old sangar of pile stone which they call a kraal before it. two thorn bush grow on either side of the door like babul bush cover with a golden colour bloom and the roof be all of thatch. before the house be a valley of stone that rise to another bush cover hill. there be an old man in the verandah an old man with a white beard and a wart upon the leave side of his neck. and a fat woman with the eye of a swine and the jowl of a swine. and a tall young man deprive of understand. his head be hairless no large than an orange and the pit of his nostril be eat away by a disease. he laugh and slaver and he sport sportively before kurban sahib. the man bring coffee and the woman show u purwanas from three general sahib certify that they be people of peace and goodwill. here be the purwanas_ sahib. doe the sahib know the general who sign them. 
they swear the land be empty of boer log. they hold up their hand and swear it. that be about the time of the even meal. i stand near the verandah with sikander khan who be nose like a jackal on a lose scent. at last he take my arm and say see yonder. there be the sun on the window of the house that signal last night. this house can see that house from here and he look at the hill behind him all hairy with bush and suck in his breath. then the idiot with the shrivel head dance by me and throw back that head and regard the roof and laugh like a hyena and the fat woman talk loudly a it be to cover some noise. after this pass i to the back of the house on pretence to get water for tea and i saw fresh fresh horse dung on the grind and that the grind be cut with the new mark of hoof. and there have drop in the dirt one cartridge. then kurban sahib call to me in our tongue say be this a good place to make tea. and i reply know what he mean there be over many cook in the cook house. mount and go child. then i return and he say smile to the woman prepare food and when we have loosen our girth we will come in and eat. but to his men he say in a whisper ride away. no. he do not cover the old man or the fat woman with his rifle. that be not his custom. some fool of the durro muts_ be hungry raise his voice to dispute the order to flee and before we be in our saddle many shot come from the roof from rifle thrust through the thatch. upon this we ride across the valley of stone and men fire at u from the nullah behind the house and from the hill behind the nullah a well a from the roof of the house so many shot that it sound like a drum in the hill. then sikandar khan rid low say this play be not for u alone but for the rest of the durro muts_ and i say be quiet. keep place. for his place be behind me and i ride behind kurban sahib. but these new bullet will pas through five men arow. we be not hit not one of u and we reach the hill of rock and scatter among the stone and kurban sahib turn in his saddle and say look at the old man. he stand in the verandah fire swiftly with a gun the woman beside him and the idiot also both with gun. kurban sahib laugh and i catch him by the wrist but his fate be write at that hour. the bullet pass under my arm pit and strike him in the liver and i pull him backward between two great rock atilt kurban sahib my kurban sahib. from the nullah behind the house and from the hill come our boer log in number more than a hundred and sikandar khan say _now we see the mean of last night s signal. give me the rifle. he take kurban sahib s rifle in this war of fool only the doctor carry sword and lay belly flat to the work but kurban sahib turn where he lay and say be still. it be a sahib war and kurban sahib put up his hand thus. and then his eye roll on me and i give him water that he might pas the more quickly. and at the drink his spirit receive permission. 
thus go our fight sahib. we durro muts be on a ridge work from the north to the south where lay our main body and the boer log lay in a valley work from east to west. there be more than a hundred and our men be ten but they hold the boer log in the valley while they swiftly pass along the ridge to the south. i saw three boer drop in the open. then they all hide again and fire heavily at the rock that hide our men. but our men be clever and do not show but move away and away always south. and the noise of the battle withdraw itself southward where we could hear the sound of big gun. so it fell stark dark and sikandar khan find a deep old jackal s earth amid rock into which we slide the body of kurban sahib upright. sikandar khan take his glass and i take his handkerchief and some letter and a certain thing which i know hang round his neck and sikandar khan be witness that i wrap them all in the handkerchief. then we take an oath together and lay still and mourn for kurban sahib. sikandar khan weep till daybreak even he a pathan a mohammedan. all that night we hear fire to the southward and when the dawn break the valley be full of boer log in cart and on horse. they gather by the house a we could see through kurban sahib s glass and the old man who i take it be a priest bless them and preach the holy war wave his arm. and the fat woman bring coffee. and the idiot caper among them and kiss their horse. presently they go away in haste. they go over the hill and be not. and a black slave come out and wash the door sill with bright water. sikandar khan saw through the glass that the stain be blood and he laugh say wound men lie there. we shall yet get vengeance. 
about noon we saw a thin high smoke to the southward such a smoke a a burn house will make in sunshine and sikandar khan who know how to take a bear across a hill say at last we have burn the house of the pumpkin seller whence they signal. and i say. what need now that they have slay my child. let me mourn. it be a high smoke and the old man a i saw come out into the verandah to behold it and shake his clench hand at it. so we lay till the twilight foodless and without water for we have vow a vow neither to eat nor to drink till we have accomplish the matter. i have a little opium leave of which i give sikandar khan the half because he love kurban sahib. when it be full dark we sharpen our sabre upon a certain softish rock which mix with water sharpen steel well and we take off our boot and we go down to the house and look through the window very softly. the old man sit read in a book and the woman sit by the hearth. and the idiot lay on the floor with his head against her knee and he count his finger and laugh and she laugh again. so i know they be mother and son and i laugh too for i have suspect this when i claim her life and her body from sikandar khan in our discussion of the spoil. then we enter with bare sword. indeed these boer log do not understand the steel for the old man run towards a rifle in the corner. but sikandar khan prevent him with a blow of the flat across the hand and he sit down and hold up his hand and i put my finger on my lip to signify they should be silent. but the woman cry and one stir in an inner room and a door open and a man bind about the head with rag stand stupidly fumble with a gun. his whole head fell inside the door and none follow him. it be a very pretty stroke for a pathan. they then be silent star at the head upon the floor and i say to sikandar khan fetch rope. not even for kurban sahib s sake will i defile my sword. so he go to seek and return with three long leather one and say four wound lie within and doubtless each ha a permit from a general and he stretch the rope and laugh. then i bind the old man s hand behind his back and unwillingly for he laugh in my face and would have finger my beard the idiot s. at this the woman with the swine s eye and the jowl of a swine run forward and sikandar khan say shall i strike or bind. she be thy property on the division. and i say refrain. i have make a chain to hold her. open the door. i push out the two across the verandah into the dark shade of the thorn tree and she follow upon her knee and lay along the grind and paw at my boot and howl. then sikandar khan bore out the lamp say that he be a butler and would light the table and i look for a branch that would bear fruit. but the woman hinder me not a little with her screeching and plunge and speak fast in her tongue and i reply in my tongue i be childless to night because of thy perfidy and my child be praise among men and love among woman. he would have beget men not animal. thou hast more year to live than i but my grief be the great. 
i stoop to make sure the noose upon the idiot s neck and fling the end over the branch and sikandar khan hold up the lamp that she might well see. then appear suddenly a little beyond the light of the lamp the spirit of kurban sahib. one hand he hold to his side even where the bullet have strike him and the other he put forward thus and say no. it be a sahib war. and i say wait a while child and thou shalt sleep. but he come near rid a it be upon my eye and say no. it be a sahib war. and sikandar khan say be it too heavy. and set down the lamp and come to me. and a he turn to tally on the rope the spirit of kurban sahib stand up within arm s reach of u and his face be very angry and a third time he say no. it be a sahib war. and a little wind blow out the lamp and i hear sikandar khan s teeth chatter in his head. 
so we stay side by side the rope in our hand a very long while for we could not shape any word. then i hear sikandar khan open his water bottle and drink. and when his mouth be slake he pass to me and say we be absolve from our vow. so i drink and together we wait for the dawn in that place where we stand the rope in our hand. a little after third cockcrow we hear the foot of horse and gun wheel very far off and so soon a the light come a shell burst on the threshold of the house and the roof of the verandah that be thatch fell in and blaze before the window. and i say what of the wound boer log within. and sikandar khan say we have hear the order. it be a sahib war. stand still. then come a second shell good line but short and scatter dust upon u where we stand. and then come ten of the little quick shell from the gun that speak like a stammerer yes pompom the sahib call it and the face of the house fold down like the nose and the chin of an old man mumble and the forefront of the house lay down. then sikandar khan say if it be the fate of the wound to die in the fire i shall not prevent it. and he pass to the back of the house and presently come back and four wound boer log come after him of whom two could not walk upright. and i say what hast thou do. and he say i have neither speak to them nor lay hand on them. they follow in hope of mercy. and i say it be a sahib war. let them wait the sahib mercy. so they lay still the four men and the idiot and the fat woman under the thorn tree and the house burn furiously. then begin the know sound of cartouch in the roof one or two at first. then a trill and last of all one loud noise and the thatch blow here and there and the captive would have crawl aside on account of the heat that be wither the thorn tree and on account of wood and brick fly at random. but i say abide. abide. ye be sahib and this be a sahib war o sahib. there be no order that ye should depart from this war. they do not understand my word. yet they abide and they live. 
presently ride down five trooper of kurban sahib s command and one i know speak my tongue have sail to calcutta often with horse. so i tell him all my tale use bazaar talk such a his kidney of sahib would understand. and at the end i say an order ha reach u here from the dead that this be a sahib war. i take the soul of my kurban sahib to witness that i give over to the justice of the sahib these sahib who have make me childless. then i give him the rope and fell down senseless my heart be very full but my belly be empty except for the little opium. 
they put me into a cart with one of their wound and after a while i understand that they have fight against the boer log for two day and two night. it be all one big trap sahib of which we with kurban sahib saw no more than the out edge. they be very angry the durro muts very angry indeed. i have never see sahib so angry. they bury my kurban sahib with the rite of his faith upon the top of the ridge overlook the house and i say the proper prayer of the faith and sikandar khan pray in his fashion and steal five signal candle which have each three wick and light the grave a if it have be the grave of a saint on a friday. he weep very bitterly all that night and i weep with him and he take hold of my foot and beseech me to give him a remembrance from kurban sahib. so i divide equally with him one of kurban sahib s handkerchief not the silk one for those be give him by a certain woman. and i also give him a button from a coat and a little steel ring of no value that kurban sahib use for his key and he kiss them and put them into his bosom. the rest i have here in that little bundle and i must get the baggage from the hotel in cape town some four shirt we send to be wash for which we could not wait when we go up country and i must give them all to my colonel sahib at sialkote in the punjab. for my child be dead my baba be dead. i would have come away before. there be no need to stay the child be dead. but we be far from the rail and the durro muts be a brother to me and i have come to look upon sikandar khan a in some sort a friend and he get me a horse and i ride up and down with them. but the life have depart. god know what they call me orderly chaprassi. messenger. cook sweeper i do not know nor care. but once i have pleasure. we come back in a month after wide circle to that very valley. i know it every stone and i go up to the grave and a clever sahib of the durro muts. we leave a troop there for a week to school those people with purwanas. have cut an inscription upon a great rock. and they interpret it to me and be be a jest such a kurban sahib himself would have love. oh. i have the inscription well copy here. read it aloud sahib and i will explain the jest. there be two very good one. begin sahib. 
in memory of walter decies corbyn late captain st punjab cavalry. 
the gurgaon rissala that be. go on sahib. 
treacherously shoot near this place by the connivance of the late hendrik dirk uys a minister of god who thrice take the oath of neutrality and piet his son this little work. 
aha. this be the first jest. the sahib should see this little work. 
be accomplish in partial and inadequate recognition of their loss by some men who love him. 
si monumentum requiris circumspice. 
that be the second jest. it signify that those who would desire to behold a proper memorial to kurban sahib must look out at the house. and sahib the house be not there nor the well nor the big tank which they call dam nor the little fruit tree nor the cattle. there be nothing at all sahib except the two tree wither by the fire. the rest be like the desert here or my hand or my heart. empty sahib all empty. 
their lawful occasion. 
the wet litany. 
when the water s countenance blurrs twixt glance and second glance. when the tattered smoke forerun ashen neath a silver sun. when the curtain of the haze shut upon our helpless way hear the channel fleet at sea. libera no domine. 
when the engine bat pulse scarcely thrill the nose hull. when the wash along the side sound a sudden magnify when the intolerable blast mark each blindfold minute pass. 
when the fog buoy s squattering flight guide u through the haggard night. when the warn bugle blow. when the letter doorway close. when our brittle township press impotent on emptiness. 
when the unseen leadsmen lean question a deep unseen. when their lessen count they tell to a bridge invisible. when the hide and perilous cliff return our cry to u. 
when the treble thickness spread swallow up our next ahead. when her siren s frighten whine show her sheer out of line. when her passage undiscerned we must turn where she ha turn hear the channel fleet at sea. libera no domine. 
their lawful occasion. 
part i. 
and a security for such a pas on the sea upon their lawful occasion. navy prayer. 
disregard the invention of the marine captain whose other name be gubbins let a plain statement suffice. 
h. m. s. caryatid go to portland to join blue fleet for manoeuvre. i travel overland from london by way of portsmouth where i fell among friend. when i reach portland h. m. s. caryatid_ whose guest i be to have be have with blue fleet already sail for some secret rendezvous off the west coast of ireland and portland breakwater be fill with red fleet my official enemy and joyous acquaintance who receive me with unstinted hospitality. for example lieutenant commander a. l. hignett in charge of three destroyer wraith stiletto_ and kobbold_ due to depart at p. m. that even offer me a berth on his thirty knot flagship but i prefer my comfort and so accept sleep room in h. m. s. pedantic. ton. leader of the second line. after din aboard her i take boat to weymouth to get my kit aboard a the battleship would go to war at midnight. in transfer my allegiance from blue to red fleet whatever the marine captain may say i do no wrong. i truly intend to return to the pedantic and help to fight blue fleet. all i need be a new toothbrush which i buy from a chemist in a side street at. p. m. a i turn to go one enter seek alleviation of a gum boil. he be dress in a check ulster a black silk hat three size too small cord breech boot and pure brass spur. these he manage painfully step like a prisoner fresh from leg iron. a he adjust the pepper plaster to the gum the light fell on his face and i recognise mr. emanuel pyecroft late second class petty officer of h. m. s. archimandrite_ an unforgettable man meet a year before under tom wessel s roof in plymouth. it occur to me that when a petty officer take to spur he may conceivably meditate desertion. for that reason i though a taxpayer make no sign. indeed it be mr. pyecroft follow me out of the shop who say hollowly. what might you be do here. 
i m go on manoeuvre in the pedantic_ i reply. 
ho. say mr. pyecroft. an what manner o manoeuvre d you expect to see in a blight cathedral like the pedantic. i know er. i know her in malta when the vulcan be her permanent tender. manoeuvre. you win t see more than man an arm watertight door. in your little woollen undervest. 
i m sorry for that. 
why. he lurch heavily a his spur catch and twang like tune fork. war s declare at midnight. pedantics be sugar. buy an be an see life. 
for the moment i fancy mr. pyecroft a fugitive from justice purpose that we two should embrace a robin hood career in the upland of dorset. the spur trouble me and i make bold to say a much. them. he say come to an intricate halt. they re part of the prima facie evidence. but a for me let me carry your bag i m second in command leadin hand cook steward an lavatory man with a few incidental for sixpence a day extra on no. torpedo boat. 
they wear spur there. 
well say mr. peycroft seein that two six seven belong to blue fleet which leave the day before yesterday disguise be imperative. it transpire thus. the right honourable lord gawd almighty admiral master frankie frobisher k. c. b. commandin blue fleet can t be bother with one tin torpedo boat more or le. and what with lyin in the reserve four year an what with the new kind o tiffy which clean dynamo with brick dust and oil. blast these spur. they win t render. two six seven s steam gadget be paralytic. our mr. moorshed do his painstakin best it s his first command of a war canoe matoor age nineteen. down that alleyway please. but be that a it may his holiness frankie be aware of u crabbin ourselves round the breakwater at five knot an steerin pari passu_ a the french say. up this alley way please. if he d give mr. hinchcliffe our chief engineer a little time it would never have transpire for what hinch can t drive he can coax. but the new port bein a trifle cloudy an be joint tinglin after a post captain dinner frankie come on the upper bridge seekin for a sacrifice. we offerin a broadside target get it. he tell u what be grandmamma oo be a lady an go to sea in stick and string batteaus have tell him about steam. he throw in his own prayer for the ealth an safety of all steam packet an their officer. then he give u several distinct order. the first few i keep tally be all about go to hell. the next many be about not evolutin in his company when there. an the last all be simply repeatin the motion in quick time. knowin frankie s groovin to be badly erode by age and lack of attention i didn t much panic. but our mr. moorshed e take it a little to heart. me an mr. hinchcliffe console im a well a service condition permit of an we have a rsum supper at the back o the camber seclude an lugubrious. then one thing leadin up to another an our order except about anchorin where he s book for leavin u a clear orizon number two six seven be now mind the edge of the wharf here. 
by mysterious doubling he have bring me out on to the edge of a narrow strip of water crowd with coastwise ship that run far up into weymouth town. a large foreign timber brig lay at my foot and under the round of her stern cower close to the wharf edge a slate colour unkempt two funnel craft of a type but i be no expert between the first class torpedo boat and the full blood destroyer. from her archaic torpedo tube at the stern and quick firers forward and amidship she must have date from the early ninety. hammering and clink with spurt of steam and fume of hot oil arise from her inside and a figure in a strip jersey squat on the engine room grating. 
she ain t much of a war canoe but you ll see more life in er than on an whole squadron of bleedin pedantics. 
but she s lay up here and blue fleet have go i protest. precisely. only in his comprehensive order frankie didn t put u out of action. thus we re a non neglectable fightin factor which you mightn t think from this elevation. an m rover red fleet don t know we re ere. most of u he glance proudly at his boot didn t run to spur but we re disguise pretty devious a you might say. morgan our signaliser when last see be a dawlish bath machine proprietor. hinchcliffe be naturally a german waiter and me you behold a a squire of low degree. while yonder levantine dragoman on the hatch be our mr. moorshed. he be the second cutter s snotty my snotty on the archimandrite two year cape station. likewise on the west coast mangrove swampin an gettin the cutter stave in on small an unlikely bar an manufacturin lie to correspond. what i don t know about mr. moorshed be precisely the same gauge a what mr. moorshed don t know about me half a millimetre a you might say. he come into awful opulence of his own when e s of age. an judgin from what pass between u when frankie curse im i don t think e care whether he s break to morrow or the day after. be you beginnin to follow our tatties. they ll be worth followin. or be you goin back to your nice little cabin on the pedantic which i lay they ve just dismount the third engineer out of to eat four fat meal per diem an smoke in the casement. 
the figure in the jersey lift it head and mumble. 
yes sir be mr. pyecroft s answer. i ave ascertain that stiletto wraith_ and kobbold leave at p. m. with the first division o red fleet s cruiser except devulotion and cryptic_ which be delay by engine room defect. then to me. win t you go aboard. mr. moorshed ud like some one to talk to. you buy an be an see life. 
at this he vanish. and the demon of pure irresponsibility bid me low myself from the edge of the wharf to the tea tray plate of no. 
what d you want. say the strip jersey. 
i want to join blue fleet if i can i reply. i ve be leave behind by an accident. 
well. 
mr. pyecroft tell me to buy a ham and see life. about how big a ham do you need. 
i don t want any ham thank you. that s the way up the wharf. good night. 
good night. i retrace my step wander in the dark till i find a shop and there purchase of sardine can tongue lobster and salmon not le than half a hundredweight. a belated sausage shop supply me with a partially cut ham of pantomime tonnage. these thing i sweat bore out to the edge of the wharf and set down in the shadow of a crane. it be a clear dark summer night and from time to time i laugh happily to myself. the adventure be preordain on the face of it. pyecroft alone spur or barefoot would have draw me very far from the path of circumspection. his advice to buy a ham and see life clinch it. presently mr. pyecroft i hear spur clink pass me. then the jersey voice say. what the mischief s that. 
asn t the visitor come aboard sir. e tell me he d purposely abandon the pedantic for the pleasure of the trip with u. tell me he be official correspondent for the time. an i know he s littery by the way e try to talk navy talk. haven t you see im sir. 
slowly and dispassionately the answer drawl long on the night. pye you be without exception the big liar in the service. 
then what be i to do with the bag sir. it s mark with his name. there be a pause till mr. moorshed say oh. in a tone which the listener might construe precisely a he please. 
_he be the maniac who want to buy a ham and see life be he. if he go back to the pedantic. 
pre cisely sir. give u all away sir. 
then what possess you to give it away to him you owl. 
i ve get his bag. if e give anything away he ll have to go naked. 
at this point i think it best to rattle my tin and step out of the shadow of the crane. 
i ve buy the ham i call sweetly. have you still any objection to my see life mr. moorshed. 
all right if you re insure. win t you come down. 
i descend. pyecroft by a silent flank movement possess himself of all the provision which he bore to some hole forward. 
have you know mr. pyecroft long. say my host. 
meet him once a year ago at devonport. what do you think of him. 
what do you think of him. 
i ve leave the pedantic her boat will be wait for me at ten o clock too simply because i happen to meet him i reply. 
that s all right. if you ll come down below we may get some grub. 
we descend a naked steel ladder to a steel beam tunnel perhaps twelve foot long by six high. leather top locker run along either side. a swing table with tray and lamp above occupy the centre. other furniture there be none. 
you can t shave here of course. we don t wash and a a rule we eat with our finger when we re at sea. d you mind. 
mr. moorshed black haired black browed sallow complexion look me over from head to foot and grin. he be not handsome in any way but his smile draw the heart. you didn t happen to hear what frankie tell me from the flagship do you. his last instruction and i ve log them here in shorthand be he open a neat pocket book _ get out of this and conduct your own damn manoeuvre in your own damn tinker fashion. you re a disgrace to the service and your boat s offal. 
awful. i say. 
no offal tripe swipe ullage. mr. pyecroft enter in the costume of his call with the ham and an assortment of tin dish which he deal out like card. 
i shall take these a my order say mr. moorshed. i m chuck the service at the end of the year so it doesn t matter. 
we cut into the ham under the ill trim lamp wash it down with whisky and then smoke. from the foreside of the bulkhead come an uninterrupted hammer and clink and now and then a hiss of steam. 
that s mr. hinchcliffe say pyecroft. he s what be call a first class engine room artificer. if you hand im a drum of oil an leave im alone he can coax a steal bicycle to do typewritin. 
very leisurely at the end of his first pipe mr. moorshed draw out a fold map cut from a newspaper of the area of manoeuvre with the rule that regulate these wonderful thing below. 
well i suppose i know a much a an average stick and string admiral he say yawn. be our petticoat ready yet mr. pyecroft. 
a a preparation for naval manoeuvre these council seem inadequate. i follow up the ladder into the gloom cast by the wharf edge and the big lumber ship s side. a my eye stretch to the darkness i saw that no. have miraculously sprout an extra pair of funnel soft for they give a i touch them. 
more prima facie evidence. you run a rope fore an aft an you erect perpendick u arly two canvas tube which you distend with cane hoop thus avin a many funnel a a destroyer. at the word o command up they go like a pair of concertina an consequently collapse equally andy when requisite. comin aft we shall doubtless overtake the dawlish bathin machine proprietor fittin on her bustle. 
mr. pyecroft whisper this in my ear a moorshed move toward a group at the stern. 
none of u who ain t build that way can be destroyer but we can look a near it a we can. let me explain to you sir that the stern of a thorneycroft boat which we be not_ come out in a pretty bulge totally different from the yarrow mark which again we be not. but on the other and dirk stiletto goblin ghoul djinn_ and a frite red fleet dee stroyers with oom we hope to consort late on term o perfect equality be thorneycrofts an carry that grecian bend which we be now adjustin to our arriere pense a the french would put it by mean of paint canvas an iron rod bend a requisite. between you an me an frankie we be the gnome_ now in the fleet reserve at pompey portsmouth i should say. 
the first sea will carry it all away say moorshed lean gloomily outboard but it will do for the present. 
we ve a lot of prima facie evidence about u mr. pyecroft go on. a first class torpedo boat sit low in the water than a destroyer. hence we artificially raise our side with a black canvas wash streak to represent extra freeboard. at the same time paddin out the cover of the forward three pounder like a if it be a twelve pounder an variously fakin up the bow of er. a you might say we ve take think an add a cubic to our stature. it s our len th that sugar u. a undred an forty foot which be our len th into two undred and ten which be about the gnome s leaf seventy foot over which we haven t get. 
be this all your own notion mr. pyecroft. i ask. 
in spot you might say yes. though we all contribute to make up deficiency. but mr. moorshed not much carin for further navy after what frankie say certainly throw himself into the part with avidity. 
what the dickens be we go to do. 
speak a a seaman gunner i should say we d wait till the sight come on an then fire. speakin a a torpedo coxswain l. t. o. t. i. m. d. etc. i presume we fall in number one in rear of the tube etc. secure tube to ball or diaphragm clear away securin bar release safety pin from lockin lever an pray heaven to look down on u. a second in command o i say wait an see. 
what s happen. we re off i say. the timber ship have slide away from u. 
we be. stern first an broadside on. if we don t hit anything too hard we ll do. 
come on the bridge say mr. moorshed. i saw no bridge but fell over some sort of con tower forward near which be a wheel. for the next few minute i be more occupy with curse my own folly than with the science of navigation. therefore i cannot say how we get out of weymouth harbour nor why it be necessary to turn sharp to the leave and wallow in what appear to be surf. 
excuse me say mr. pyecroft behind u _i don t mind rammin a bathin machine. but if only one of them week end weymouth blighter ha throw his empty baccy tin into the sea here we ll rip our plate open on it. isn t the archimandrite s old cutter. 
i be hug the shore be the answer. 
there s no actual arm in huggin but it can come expensive if pursooed. 
right o. say moorshed put down the wheel and a we leave those scant water i felt move more freely. 
a thin cough run up the speak tube. 
well what be it mr. hinchcliffe. say moorshed. 
i merely wish to report that she be still continuin to go sir. 
right o. can we whack her up to fifteen d you think. 
i ll try sir. but we d prefer to have the engine room hatch open at first sir. 
whack up then she be and for half an hour be career largely through the night turn at last with a suddenness that sling u across the narrow deck. 
this say mr. pyecroft who receive me on his chest a a large rock receive a shadow represent the gnome arrivin cautious from the direction o portsmouth with admiralty order. 
he point through the darkness ahead and after much star my eye open to a dozen destroyer in two line some few hundred yard away. 
those be the red fleet destroyer flotilla which be too frail to panic about among the full blood cruiser inside portland breakwater and several millimetre too excite over the approachin war to keep a look out inshore. hence our tattics. 
we wail through our siren a long malignant hyena like howl and a voice hail u a we go astern tumultuously. 
the gnome carteret jones from portsmouth with order mm mm stiletto_ moorshed answer through the megaphone in a high whine voice rather like a chaplain s. 
_who. be the answer. 
carter et jones. 
oh lord. 
there be a pause. a voice cry to some friend it s podgie adrift on the high sea in charge of a whole dee stroyer. 
another voice echo podgie. and from it note i gather that mr. carteret jones have a reputation but not for independent command. 
who s your sub. say the first speaker a shadow on the bridge of the dirk. 
a gunner at present sir. the stiletto break down turn over to u. 
when do the stiletto break down. 
off the start sir. two hour after after she leave here this even i believe. my order be to report to you for the manoeuvre signal code and join commander hignett s flotilla which be in attendance on stiletto. 
a smother chuckle greet this last. moorshed s voice be high and uneasy. say pyecroft with a sigh. the amount o trouble me an my bright spur ad fishin out that information from torpedo coxswain and similar blighter in pub all this afternoon you would never believe. 
but ha the stiletto break down. i ask weakly. 
how else be we to get red fleet s private signal code. any way if she asn t now she will before manoeuvre be end. it s only executin in anticipation. 
go astern and send your coxswain aboard for order mr. jones. water carry sound well but i do not know whether we be intend to hear the next sentence. they must have give him one intelligent keeper. 
that s me say mr. pyecroft a a black and coal stain dinghy i do not foresee how well i should come to know her be fling overside by three men. 
havin buy an be we will now see life. he step into the boat and be away. 
i say podgie. the speaker be in the last of the line of destroyer a we thump astern aren t you lonely out there. 
oh don t rag me. say moorshed. do you suppose i ll have to manoeuvre with your flo tilla. 
no podgie. i m pretty sure our commander will see you sift cinder in tophet before you come with our flo tilla. 
thank you. she steer rather wild at high speed. 
two men laugh together. 
by the way who be mr. carteret jones when he s at home. i whisper. 
i be with him in the britannia. i didn t like him much but i m grateful to him now. i must tell him so some day. 
they seem to know him hereabouts. 
he ram the caryatid twice with her own steam pinnace. 
presently move by long stroke mr. pyecroft return skim across the dark. the dinghy swing up behind him even a his heel spurn it. 
commander fasset s compliment to mr. l. carteret jones and the sooner he dig out in pursuance of admiralty order a receive at portsmouth the good please commander fasset will be. but there s a lot more. 
whack her up mr. hinchcliffe. come on to the bridge. we can settle it a we go. well. 
mr. pyecroft draw an important breath and slide off his cap. 
day an night private signal of red fleet com_plete sir. he hand a little paper to moorshed. you see sir the trouble be that mr. carteret jones bein so to say a little new to his duty ad forget to give be gunner his admiralty order in writin but a i tell commander fasset mr. jones have be repeatin em to me nervous like most of the way from portsmouth so i know em by heart an good. the commander recognisin in me a man of agility caution me to be a father an mother to mr. carteret jones. 
didn t he know you. i ask think for the moment that there could be no duplicate of emanuel pyecroft in the navy. 
what s a torpedo gunner more or le to a full lootenant command six thirty knot destroyer for the first time. e seem to cherish the ope that e might use the gnome for be own orrible purpose. but what i tell him about mr. jones s sad lack o nerve comin from pompey an go dead slow on account of the dark short circuit that connection. m rover i say to him our order be explicit. stiletto s report break down somewhere off the start an we ve be tryin to coil down a new stiff wire hawser all the evenin so it look like towin er back don t it. i say. that more than ever jam his turret an make him keen to get rid of u. e even hint that mr. carteret jones passin hawser an assistin the impotent in a sea way might come pretty expensive on the tax payer. i agree in a discipline way. i ain t proud. gawd know i ain t proud. but when i m really diggin out in the fancy line i sometimes think that me in a copper punt single anded ud beat a cutter full of de rougemongs in a row round the fleet. 
at this point i recline without shame on mr. pyecroft s bosom support by his quiver arm. 
well. say moorshed scowl into the darkness a s bow snap at the shore sea of the broad channel and we sway together. 
you d good go on say commander fassett an do what you re tell to do. i don t envy hignett if he ha to dry nurse the gnome s commander. but what d you want with signal. e say. it s criminal lunacy to trust mr. jones with anything that steam. 
may i make an observation sir. i say. suppose i say you be torpedo gunner on the gnome_ an mr. carteret jones be your commandin officer an you have your reputation a a second in command for the first time i say well knowin it be his first command of a flotilla what ud you do sir. that gouge be unprotected end open clear back to the citadel. 
what do he say. moorshed jerk over be shoulder. 
if you be mr. carteret jones it might be disrespect for me to repeat it sir. 
go ahead i hear the boy chuckle. 
do. e say. i d rub the young blighter s nose into it till i make a perishin man of him or a perspirin pillow case e say which he add be forty per cent more than he be at present. 
whilst he s gettin the private signal they re rather particular one i go forrard to see the dirk s gunner about borrowin a holdin down bolt for our twelve pounder. my open ear while i be rovin over his packet get the followin authentic particular. i hear his voice change and his foot shift. there s be a last council o war of destroyer captain at the flagship an a lot of thing a come out. to begin with cryptic and devolution_ captain panke and captain malan. 
_cryptic and devolution_ first class cruiser say mr. moorshed dreamily. go on pyecroft. 
bein delay by minor defect in engine room do not_ a we know accompany red fleet s first division of scout cruiser whose rendezvous be unknown but presume to be somewhere off the lizard. cryptic an devolution leave at. p. m. still reportin copious minor defect in engine room. admiral s final instruction be they be to put into torbay an mend themselves there. if they can do it in twenty four hour they re to come on and join the battle squadron at the first rendezvous down channel somewhere. i couldn t get that sir. if they can t he ll think about sendin them some destroyer for escort. but his present intention be to go ammer and tongs down channel usin be destroyer for all they re worth an thus keepin blue fleet too busy off the irish coast to sniff into any eshtuaries. 
but if those cruiser be crock why doe the admiral let em out of weymouth at all. i ask. 
the tax payer say mr. moorshed. 
an newspaper add mr. pyecroft. in torbay they ll look a they be muckin about for strategical purpose hanamerin like blaze in the engine room all the weary day an the skipper droppin question down the engine room hatch every two or three minute. i ve be there. now sir. i saw the white of his eye turn broad on mr. moorshed. 
the boy drop his chin over the speak tube. 
mr. hinchcliffe what s her extreme economical radius. 
three hundred and forty knot down to sweep bunker. 
can do say moorshed. by the way have her revolution any bear on her speed mr. hinchcliffe. 
none that i can make out yet sir. 
then slow to eight knot. we ll jog down to forty nine forty five or four about and three east. that put u say forty mile from torbay by nine o clock to morrow morning. we ll have to muck about till dusk before we run in and try our luck with the cruiser. 
yes sir. their picket boat will be panickin round them all night. it s consider good for the young gentleman. 
hallo. war s declare. they re off. say moorshed. 
he swing s head round to get a good view. a few mile to our right the low horizon be spangle with small ball of fire while near run a procession of tiny cigar end. 
red hot. set em alight say mr. pyecroft. that s the second destroyer flotilla diggin out for commander fassett s reputation. 
the small light disappear. the glare of the destroyer funnel dwindle even a we watch. 
they re go down channel with light out thus showin their zeal an drivin all watch officer crazy. now if you ll excuse me i think i ll get you your pyjama an you ll turn in say pyecroft. 
he pilot me to the steel tunnel where the ham still swing majestically over the sway table and drag out trouser and a coat with a monk s hood all hew from one hairy inch thick board. 
if you fall over in these you ll be drown. they re lammies. i ll chock you off with a pillow. but sleepin in a torpedo boat s what you might call an acquire habit. 
i coil down on an iron hard horse hair pillow next the quiver steel wall to acquire that habit. the sea slide over s skin worry me with importunate half catch confidence. it drum tackily to gather my attention cough spat clear it throat and on the eve of that portentous communication retire up stage a a multitude whisper. anon i catch the tramp of army afoot the hum of crowd city await the event the single sob of a woman and dry roar of wild beast. a drop shovel clang on the stokehold floor be naturally enough the unbar of arena gate. our suck uplift across the crest of some little swell nothing le than the hale forth of new world. our half turn descent into the hollow of it mate the abysmal plunge of god forget planet. through all these phenomenon and more though i run with wild horse over illimitable plain of rustle grass. though i crouch belly flat under appal fire of musketry. though i be livingstone painless and incurious in the grip of his lion my shut eye saw the lamp swing in it gimbal the irregularly glide patch of light on the steel ladder and every elastic shadow in the corner of the frail angle iron. while my body strive to accommodate itself to the infernal vibration of the machine. at the last i roll limply on the floor and wake to real life with a bruise nose and a great call to go on deck at once. 
it s all right say a voice in my boom ear. morgan and laughton be bad than you. 
i be grip a rail. mr. pyecroft point with his foot to two bundle beside a torpedo tube which at weymouth have be a signaller and a most able seaman. she d do good in a big sea say mr. pyecroft. this lop be what fetch it up. 
the sky behind u whiten a i labour and the first dawn drive down the channel tip the wave top with a chill glare. to me that round wind which run before the true day ha ever be fortunate and of good omen. it clear the trouble from my body and set my soul dance to s heel and toe across the northerly set of the wave such wave a i have often watch contemptuously from the deck of a ten thousand ton liner. they shoulder our little hull sideways and pass scallop and splay out toward the coast carry our white wake in loop along their hollow back. in succession we look down a lead grey cut of water for half a clear mile be fling up on it ridge behold the channel traffic full sail to that fair breeze all about u and swing slantwise light a a bladder elastic a a basket into the next furrow. then the sun find u strike the wet gray bow to live leap opal the colourless deep to hard sapphire the many sail to pearl and the little steam plume of our escape to an inconstant rainbow. 
a fair day and a fair wind for all thank god. say emanuel pyecroft throw back the cowl like hood of his blanket coat. his face be pit with coal dust and grime pallid for lack of sleep. but his eye shine like a gull s. 
i tell you you d see life. think o the pedantic now. think o her number one chasin the mobilise gobbies round the low deck flat. think o the pore little snotties now bein wash feed and teach an the yeoman o signal with a pink eye wakin bright an brisk to another perishin day of five flag hoist. whereas we shall caulk an smoke cigarette same a the spanish destroyer do for three week after war be declare. he drop into the wardroom sing. 
if you re go to marry me marry me bill it s no use muckin about. 
the man at the wheel uniform in what have once be a tam o shanter a pair of very wear r. m. l. i. trouser roll up to the knee and a black sweater be smoke a cigarette. moorshed in a gray balaclava and a brown mackintosh with a flap cape haul at our supplementary funnel guy and a thing like a waiter from a soho restaurant sit at the head of the engine room ladder exhort the unseen below. the follow wind beat down our smoke and cover all thing with an inch thick layer of stoker so that eyelid teeth and foot grit in their motion. i begin to see that my previous experience among battleship and cruiser have be altogether beside the mark. 
part ii. 
the wind go down with the sunset the fog come up with the tide when the witch of the north take an egg shell. bi. with a little blue devil inside. sink she say or swim she say it s all you will get from me. and that be the finish of him. she say and the egg shell go to sea. 
the wind get up with the morning and the fog blow off with the rain when the witch of the north saw the egg shell and the little blue devil again. do you swim. she say. do you sink. she say and the little blue devil reply. for myself i swim but i think he say there s somebody sink outside. 
but for the small detail that i be a passenger and a civilian and might not alter her course torpedo boat no. be mine to me all that priceless day. moorshed after breakfast frizzle ham and a devil that pyecroft make out of sardine anchovy and french mustard smash together with a spanner show me his few and simple navigate tool and take an observation. morgan the signaller let me hold the chamois leather while he clean the searchlight. we seem to be good equip with electricity than most of our class. that live under a bulbous umbrella cover amidship. then pyecroft and morgan stand easy talk together of the king s service a reformer and revolutionist so notably that be i not engage on this tale i would for it conclusion substitute theirs. 
i would speak of hinchcliffe henry salt hinchcliffe first class engine room artificer and genius in his line who be proud of have take part in the hat crusade in his youth than of all his dare his skill and his nickel steel nerve. i consort with him for an hour in the pack and dance engine room when moorshed suggest whack her up to eighteen knot to see if she would stand it. the floor be ankle deep in a creamy batter of oil and water. each move part flick more oil in zoetrope circle and the gauge invisible for their dizzy chatter on the chatter steel bulkhead. lead stoker grant say to be a bigamist an ox eye man smother in hair take me to the stokehold and plant me between a sear white furnace and some hell hot iron plate for fifteen minute while i listen to the drone of fan and the worry of the sea without strive to wrench all that palpitate firepot wide open. 
then i come on deck and watch moorshed revolve in his orbit from the canvas bustle and torpedo tube aft by way of engine room con tower and wheel to the doll s house of a foc sle learn in experience withhold from me move by law beyond my knowledge authoritative entirely adequate and yet in heart a child at his play. i could not take ten step along the crowd deck but i collide with some body or thing. but he and his satellite swing pass and return on their vocation with the freedom and spaciousness of the well poise star. 
even now i can at will recall every tone and gesture with each dissolve picture inboard or overside hinchcliffe s white arm bury to the shoulder in a hornet s nest of spin machinery. moorshed s halt and jerk to windward a he look across the water. pyecroft s back bend over the berthon collapsible boat while he drill three men in expand it swiftly. the outflung white water at the foot of a homeward bind chinaman not a hundred yard away and her shadow slash rope purfled sail bulge sideways like insolent cheek. the rib and pit coal dust on our deck all iridescent under the sun. the first filmy haze that pal the shadow of our funnel about lunch time. the gradual die down and dull over of the short cheery sea. the sea that change to a swell. the swell that crumble up and run allwhither oilily. the triumphant almost audible roll inward of wander fog wall that have be stalk u for two hour and welt upon welt chill a the grave the drive of the interminable main fog of the atlantic. we slow to little more than steerage way and lay listen. presently a hand bellow foghorn jar like a corncrake and there rattle out of the mist a big ship literally above u. we could count the rivet in her plate a we scrooped by and the little drop of dew gather below them. 
wonder why they re always bark always steel always four masted an never le than two thousand ton. but they be say pyecroft. he be out on the turtle back bow of her. moorshed be at the wheel and another man work the whistle. 
this fog be the best thing could ha happen to u say moorshed. it give u our chance to run in on the quiet. hal lo. 
a crack bell ring. clean and sharp. beautifully grain too. a bowsprit surge over our starboard bow the bobstay confidentially hook itself into our forward rail. 
i saw pyecroft s arm fly up. hear at the same moment the sever of the tense rope the work of the wheel moorshed s voice down the tube say astern a little please mr. hinchcliffe. and pyecroft s cry trawler with her gear down. look out for our propeller sir or we ll be wrap up in the rope. 
surge quickly under my foot a the pressure of the downward bear bobstay be remove. half a dozen men of the foc sle have already throw out fender and stand by to bear off a just visible bulwark. 
still go astern we touch slowly broadside on to a suggestive crunch of fender and i look into the deck of a brixham trawler her crew strike dumb. 
any luck. say moorshed politely. 
not till we meet yeou be the answer. the lard he save u from they big ship to be spit by the little wan. where be e gwine tu with our fine new bobstay. 
yah. you ve have time to splice it by now say pyecroft with contempt. 
aie. but we m all crush to port like aigs. you be runnin twenty seven knot u reckon it. didn t u albert. 
like twenty nine an niver no whistle. 
yes we always do that. do you want a tow to brixham. say moorshed. 
a great silence fell upon those wet men of the sea. 
we lift a little toward their side but our silent quick breathe crew brace and strain outboard bore u off a though we have be a mere picket boat. 
what for. say a puzzle voice. 
for love. for nothing. you ll be abed in brixham by midnight. 
yi. but trawl s down. 
no hurry. i ll pas you a line and go ahead. sing out when you re ready. a rope smack on their deck with the word. they make it fast. we slide forward and in ten second saw nothing save a few foot of the wire rope run into fog over our stern. but we hear the noise of debate. 
catch a brixham trawler let go of a free tow in a fog say moorshed listen. 
but what in the world do you want him for. i ask. 
oh he ll come in handy late. 
be that your first collision. 
yes. i shake hand with him in silence and our tow hail u. 
aie. yeou little man o war. the voice rise muffle and wail. after u ve up trawl u ll be glad of a tow. leave line just slack abaout a ti now and kip a good fine look out be ind ee. 
there s an accommodatin blighter for you. say pyecroft. where doe he expect we ll be with these current evolutin like sailormen at the agricultural hall. 
i leave the bridge to watch the wire rope at the stern a it draw out and smack down upon the water. by what instinct or guidance keep it from foul her languidly flap propeller i cannot tell. the fog now thicken and thin in streak that bother the eye like the glare of intermittent flash lamp. by turn grant u the vision of a sick sun that leer and flee or bury all a thousand fathom deep in gulf of vapour. at no time could we see the trawler though we hear the click of her windlass the jar of her trawl beam and the very flap of the fish on her deck. forward be pyecroft with the lead. on the bridge moorshed paw a channel chart. aft sit i listen to the whole of the british mercantile marine. never a keel le. return to england and watch the fog dew run round the bight of the tow back to it mother fog. 
aie. yeou little man o war. we m do with trawl. you can take u home if you know the road. 
right o. say moorshed. we ll give the fishmonger a run for his money. whack her up mr. hinchcliffe. 
the next few hour complete my education. i saw that i ought to be afraid but more clearly. this be when a liner hoot down the back of my neck. that any fear which would begin to do justice to the situation would if yield to incapacitate me for the rest of my day. a shadow of spread sail deep than the darken twilight brood over u like the wing of azrael. pyecroft say she be a swede. and miraculously withdraw persuade me that there be a work chance that i should reach the beach any beach alive if not dry. and. this be when an economical tramp lave our port rail with her condenser water. be i so spar i vow i would tell my tale worthily. 
thus we float in space a soul drift through raw time. night add herself to the fog and i lay hold on my limb jealously l they too should melt in the general dissolution. 
where s that prevaricatin fishmonger. say pyecroft turn a lantern on a scant yard of the gleam wire rope that point like a stick to my leave. he s doin some fancy steerin on his own. no wonder mr. hincheliffe be blasphemious. the tow s sheer off to starboard sir. he ll fair pull the stern out of u. 
moorshed invisible curse through the megaphone into invisibility. 
aie. yeou little man o war. the voice butt through the fog with the monotonous insistence of a stray sheep s. we don t all like the road you m takin. ti no road to brixham. you ll be buckle up under prawle point by mbye. 
do you pretend to know where you be. the megaphone roar. 
i i reckon. but there s no pretence to me. 
o peter. say pyecroft. let s hang him at be own gaff. 
i could not see what follow but moorshed say. take another man with you. if you lose the tow you re do. i ll slow her down. 
i hear the dinghy splash overboard ere i could cry murder. hear the rasp of a boat hook along the wire rope and then a it have be in my ear pyecroft s enormous and jubilant bellow astern. why he s here. right atop of u. the blighter a pouch half the tow like a shark. a long pause fill with soft devonian bleat. then pyecroft solo arpeggie. rum. rum. rum. be that all. come an try it uncle. 
i lift my face to where once god s sky have be and beseech the true i might not die inarticulate amid these half work miracle but live at least till my fellow mortal could be make one millionth a happy a i be happy. i pray and i wait and we go slow slow a the process of evolution till the boat hook rasp again. 
he s not what you might call a scientific navigator say pyecroft still in the dinghy but rise like a fairy from a pantomime trap. the lead s what e go by mostly. rum be what he s come for. an brixham be be ome. lay on mucduff. 
a white whisker man in a frock coat a i live by bread a frock coat. sea boot and a comforter crawl over the torpedo tube into moorshed s grip and vanish forward. 
e ll probably old three gallon. look sharp with that dinghy. but be nephew leave in charge of the agatha_ want two bottle command allowance. you re a tax payer sir. do you think that excessive. 
lead there. lead. ring out from forward. 
didn t i say e wouldn t understand compass deviation. watch him close. it ll be worth it. 
a i near the bridge i hear the strange say. let me zmell un. and to his nose be the lead present by a train man of the king s navy. 
i ll tell ee where to goo if yeou ll tell your donkey man what to du. i m no hand wi steam. on these line we proceed miraculously and under moorshed s order i be the fisherman s ganymede even a m. de c. have serve the captain i find both rum and curaoa in a locker and mix them equal bulk in an enamel iron cup. 
now we m just abeam o where we should be he say at last an here we ll lay till she lift. i d take e in for another bottle and wan for my nevvy. but i reckon yeou m shart allowance for rum. that s nivver no navy rum yeou m give me. know ee by the smack tu un. anchor now. 
i be between pyecroft and moorshed on the bridge and hear them spring to vibrate attention at my side. a man with a lead a few foot to port catch the panic through my body and check like a wild boar at gaze for not far away an unmistakable ship s bell be ring. it cease and another begin. 
them. say pyecroft. anchor. 
more. say our pilot pass me the cup and i fill it. the trawler astern clatter vehemently on her bell. pyecroft with a jerk of his arm throw loose the forward three pounder. the bar of the back sight be heavily blob with dew. the foresight be invisible. 
no they wouldn t have their picket boat out in this weather though they ought to. he return the barrel to it crotch slowly. 
be yeou gwine to anchor. say macduff smack his lip or be yeou gwine straight on to livermead beach. 
tell him what we re drive at. get it into his head somehow say moorshed. and pyecroft snatch the cup from me enfold the old man with an arm and a mist of wonderful word. 
and if you pull it off say moorshed at the last i ll give you a five. 
lard. what s fiver to me young man. my nevvy he like em. but i do cherish more on fine drink than filthy lucre any day o god s good week. leave goo my arm yeou common sailorman. i tall ee gentleman i hain t the ram face ruddle nose old fule yeou reckon i be. before the mast i ve fare in my time. fisherman i ve be since i seed the unsense of sea dangerin. baccy and spirit yi an cigar too i ve run a plenty. i m no blind harse or boy to be coax with your forty mile free towin and rum atop of all. there s none more sober to brix be this tide i don t care who ti than me. i know i know. yander m two great king s ship. yeou m wishful to sink burn and destroy they while u kip em busy sellin fish. no need tall me so twanty taime over. u ll find they ship. u ll find em if u ha to break our fine new bowsprit so close a crump s bull s horn. 
good egg. quoth moorshed and bring his hand down on the wide shoulder with the smack of a beaver s tail. 
u ll go look for they by hand. u ll give they something to play upon. an do ee deal with them faithfully an may the lard have mercy on your sowls. amen. put i in dinghy again. 
the fog be a dense a ever we move in the very womb of night but i cannot recall that i take the faint note of it a the dinghy guide by the tow rope disappear toward the agatha_ pyecroft row. the bell begin again on the starboard bow. 
we re pretty near say moorshed slow down. out with the berthon. we ll sell em fish too. and if any one row navy stroke i ll break his jaw with the tiller. mr. hinchcliffe. this down the tube. you ll stay here in charge with gregory and shergold and the engine room staff. morgan stay too for signal purpose. a deep groan break from morgan s chest but he say nothing. if the fog thin and you re see by any one keep em quiet with the signal. i can t think of the precise lie just now but you can morgan. 
yes sir. 
suppose their torpedo net be down. i whisper shiver with excitement. 
if they ve be repair minor defect all day they win t have any one to spare from the engine room and out net. be a job for the whole ship s company. i expect they ve trust to the fog like u. well pyecroft. 
that great soul have blow up on to the bridge like a feather. ad to see the first o the rum into the agathites_ sir. they be a bite jealous o their commandin officer comin ome so richly lacquer and at first the conversazione languish a you might say. but they spring to attention ere i leave. six sharp stroke on the bell if any of em be sober enough to keep tally will be the signal that our consort a cast off her tow an be manceuvrin on er own. 
right o. take laughton with you in the dinghy. put that berthon over quietly there. be you all right mr. hinchcliffe. 
i stand back to avoid the rush of half a dozen shadow drop into the berthon boat. a hand catch me by the slack of my garment move me in generous arc through the night and i rest on the bottom of the dinghy. 
i want you for prima facie evidence in case the vaccination don t take say pyecroft in my ear. push off alf. 
the last bell ring be high overhead. it be follow by six little tinkle from the agatha_ the roar of her fall anchor the clash of pan and loose shout. 
where be gwine tu. port your ellum. aie. you mud dredger in the fairway goo astern. out boat. she ll sink u. 
a clear cut navy voice drawl from the cloud. quiet. you gardener there. this be the cryptic at anchor. 
thank you for the range say pyecroft and paddle gingerly. feel well out in front of you alf. remember your fat fist be our only marconi installation. the voice resume. 
bournemouth steamer he say she be. 
then where be brixham harbor. 
damme i m a tax payer tu. they ve no right to cruise about this way. i ll have the laa on ee if anything carry away. 
then the man of war. 
short on your anchor. heave short you howl maniac. you ll get yourselves smash in a minute if you drift. 
the air be full of these and other voice a the dinghy check swing. i pass one hand down laughton s stretch arm and felt an iron gooseneck and a foot or two of a backward slop torpedo net boom. the other hand i lay on broad cold iron even the flank of h. m. s. cryptic_ which be twelve thousand ton. 
i hear a scrubby raspy sound a though pyecroft have choose that hour to shave and i smell paint. drop aft a bite alf. we ll put a stencil under the stern six inch casement. 
boom by boom laughlin slide the dinghy along the tower curve wall. once twice and again we stop and the keen scrub sound be renew. 
umpire be ard earted blighter but this ought to convince em. captain panke s stern walk be now above our defenceless eads. repeat the evolution up the starboard side alf. 
i be only conscious that we move around an iron world palpitate with life. though my knowledge be all by touch a for example when pyecroft lead my surrender hand to the base of some bulge sponson or when my palm close on the knife edge of the stem and pat it timidly yet i felt lonely and unprotected a the enormous helpless ship be withdraw and we drift away into the void where voice sing. 
tom pearce tom pearce lend me thy gray mare all along out along down along lea. i want for to go to widdicombe fair with bill brewer sam sewer peter gurney harry hawke old uncle tom cobley an all. 
that s old sinbad an be little lot from the agatha. give way alf. you might sing somethin too. 
i m no burnin patti. ain t there noise enough for you pye. 
yes but it s only amateur. give me the tone of earth and ome. ha. list to the blighter on the orizon sayin his prayer navy fashion. eaven elp me argue that way when i m a warrant officer. 
we head with little lap stroke toward what seem to be a fair size riot. 
an i ve eard the devolution call a happy ship too say pyecroft. just show ow a man s mislead by prejudice. she s peevish that s what she be nasty peevish. prob ly all because the agathites be scratch er paint. well rub along alf. i ve get the lymph. 
a voice which mr. pyecroft assure me belong to a chief carpenter be speak through an aperture. starboard bow twelve pounder on the low deck. he do not wish to purchase any fish even at grossly reduce rate. nobody wish to buy any fish. this ship be the devolution at anchor and desire no communication with shore boat. 
mark how the navy old it s own. he s sober. the agathites be not a you might say an yet they can t live with im. it s the discipline that doe it. ark to the bald an unconvincin watch officer chimin in. i wonder where mr. moorshed ha get to. 
we drift down the devolution s side a we have drift down her sister s. and we deal with her in that dense gloom a we have deal with her sister. 
whai. ti a man o war after all. i can see the captain s whisker all gild at the edge. we take ee for the bournemouth steamer. three cheer for the real man o war. 
that cry come from under the devolution s stern. pyecroft hold something in his teeth for i hear him mumble our mister moorshed. 
say a boy s voice above u just a we dodge a jet of hot water from some valve. i don t half like that cheer. if i d be the old man i d ha turn loose the quick firers at the first go off. aren t they row navy stroke yonder. 
true say pyecroft listen to retreat oar. it s time to go ome when snotties begin to think. the fog s thinnin too. 
i felt a chill breath on my forehead and saw a few foot of the steel stand out dark than the darkness disappear it be then the dinghy shoot away from it and emerge once more. 
hallo. what boat s that. say the voice suspiciously. 
why i do believe it s a real man o war after all say pyecroft and kick laughton. 
what s that for. laughton be no dramatist. 
answer in character you blighter. say somethin opposite. 
what boat s thatt. the hail be repeat. 
what do yee say ay. pyecroft bellow and under his breath to me. give u a hand. 
it s call the marietta f. j. stoke torquay i begin quaveringly. at least that s the name on the name board. i ve be din on a yacht. 
i see. the voice shake a little and my way open before me with disgraceful ease. 
yesh. din private yacht. eshmesheralda. i belong to torquay yacht club. be you member torquay yacht club. 
you d good go to bed sir. good night. we slide into the rapidly thin fog. 
dig out alf. put your nix mangiare back into it. the fog s peelin off like a petticoat. where s two six seven. 
i can t see her i reply but there s a light low down ahead. 
the agatha. they row desperately through the uneasy dispersal of the fog for ten minute and duck round the trawler s bow. 
well emanuel mean god with u so far. pyecroft wipe his brow lay a hand on the low rail and a he boost me up to the trawler i saw moorshed s face white a pearl in the thin dark. 
be it all right. say he over the bulwark. 
vaccination ain t in it. she s take beautiful. but where s sir. pyecroft reply. 
go. we come here a the fog lift. i give the devolution four. be that you behind u. 
yes sir. but i only get in three on the devolution. i give the cryptic nine though. they re what you might call more or le vaccinate. 
he lift me inboard where moorshed and six pirate lay round the agatha s hatch. there be a hint of daylight in the cool air. 
where be the old man. i ask. 
still sell em fish i suppose. he s a darling. but i wish i could get this filthy paint off my hand. hallo. what the deuce be the cryptic signal. 
a pale masthead light wink through the last of the fog. it be answer by a white pencil to the southward. 
destroyer signal with searchlight. pyecroft leap on the stern rail. the first part be private signal. ah. now she s morsing against the fog. p o s t yes postpone d e p. go on. departure till further order which will be com. he s drop the other m. unicated verbally. end. he swing round. _cryptic be now answer. ready proceed immediately. what news promise destroyer flotilla. 
hallo. say moorshed. well never mind they ll come too late. 
whew. that s some igh bear suckle on the destroyer. destroyer signal. care not. all will be know late. what merry beehive s break loose now. 
what odds. we ve do our little job. 
why why it s two six seven. 
here pyecroft drop from the rail among the fishy net and shake the agatha with heaving. moorshed cast aside his cigarette look over the stern and fell into his subordinate s arm. i hear the guggle of engine the rattle of a little anchor go over not a hundred yard away a cough and morgan s subdue hail. so far a i remember it be laughton whom i hug. but the men who hug me most be pyecroft and moorshed adrift among the fishy net. 
there be no semblance of discipline in our flight over the agatha s side nor indeed be ordinary precaution take for the common safety because. i be in the berthon. they hold that patent boat open by hand for the most part. we regain our own craft cackle like wild goose and crowd round moorshed and hinchcliffe. behind u the agatha s boat return from her fish sell cruise yell. have ee do the trick. have ee do the trick. and we could only shout hoarsely over the stern guarantee them rum by the hold full. 
fog get patchy here at. say henry salt hinchcliffe grow clear every instant in the dawn. go down to brixham harbour to keep out of the road. hear whistle to the south and go to look. i have her up to sixteen good. morgan keep on shed private red fleet signal out of the signal book a the fog clear till we be answer by three destroyer. morgan signal em by searchlight. alter course to south seventeen east so a not to lose time they come round quick. we keep well away on their port beam and morgan give em their order. he look at morgan and cough. 
the signalman act a second in command say morgan swell then inform destroyer flotilla that cryptic and devolution have make good defect and in obedience to admiral s supplementary order. i be afraid they might suspect that but they didn t. have proceed at seven knot at. p. m. to rendezvous near channel island seven mile n. n. w. the casquet light. i ve rendezvous there myself sir. destroyer flotilla would therefore follow cruiser and catch up with them on their course. destroyer flotilla then dig out on course indicate all funnel spark briskly. 
who be the destroyer. 
_wraith kobbold stiletto_ lieutenant commander a. l. hignett act under admiral s order to escort cruiser receive off the dodman at p. m. they d come slow on account of fog. 
then who be you. 
we be the afrite_ port engine break down put in to torbay and there instruct by cryptic_ previous to her departure with devolution. to inform commander hignett of change of plan. lieutenant commander hignett signal that our meet be quite providential. after this we return to pick up our command officer and be interrogate by cryptic_ mark time signal a requisite which you may have see. the agatha represent the last know rally point or a i should say pivot ship of the evolution it be decide to repair to the agatha at conclusion of manoeuvre. 
be there such a thing a one fine big drink aboard this one fine big battleship. can do sir say pyecroft and get it. begin with mr. moorshed and end with myself junior to the third first class stoker we drink and it be a water of the brook that two and a half inch of stiff treacly navy rum. and we look each in the other s face and we nod bright eye burn with bliss. 
moorshed walk aft to the torpedo tube and pace back and forth a captain victorious on his own quarterdeck. and the triumphant day break over the green bed villa of torquay to show u the magnitude of our victory. there lay the cruiser. i have reason to believe that they have make good their defect. they be each four hundred and forty foot long and sixty six wide. they hold close upon eight hundred men apiece and they have cost say a million and a half the pair. and they be ours and they do not know it. indeed the cryptic_ senior ship be signal vehement remark to our address which we do not notice. 
if you take these glass you ll get the general run o last night s vaccination say pyecroft. each one represent a torpedo get ome a you might say. 
i saw on the cryptic s port side a she lay half a mile away across the glassy water four neat white square in outline a white blur in the centre. 
there be five more to starboard. ere s the original. he hand me a paint dapple copper stencil plate two foot square bear in the centre the six inch initial g. m. 
ten minute ago i d ha eulogise about that little trick of ours but morgan s performance ha short circuit me. be you happy morgan. 
bustin say the signalman briefly. 
you may be. gawd forgive you morgan for a queen enrietta say to the ousemaid i never will. i d ha give a year s pay for ten minute o your signallin work this mornin. 
i wouldn t ave take it up be the answer. perishin eavens above. look at the devolution s semaphore. two black wooden arm wave from the junior ship s upper bridge. they ve see it. 
_the mote on their neighbour s beam of course say pyecroft and read syllable by syllable. captain malan to captain panke. be sten cilled frieze your starboard side new admiralty regulation or your number one s private expense. now cryptic be say not understand. poor old crippy_ the devolute s raggin er sore. who be g. m. she say. that s fetch the cryptic. she s answerin. you ought to know. examine own paintwork. oh lord. they re both on to it now. this be balm. this be begin to be balm. i forgive you morgan. 
two frantic pipe twitter. from either cruiser a whaler drop into the water and madly row round the ship. a a gay colour hoist rise to the cryptic s yardarm. destroyer will close at once. wish to speak by semaphore. then on the bridge semaphore itself. have be try to attract your attention last half hour. send command officer aboard at once. 
our attention. after all the attention we ve give er too say pyecroft. what a greedy old woman. to moorshed. signal from the cryptic_ sir. 
never mind that. say the boy peer through his glass. our dinghy quick or they ll paint our mark out. come along. 
by this time i be long past even hysteria. i remember pyecroft s bend back the surge of the drive dinghy a knot of amaze face a we skim the cryptic s ram and the drop jaw of the midshipman in her whaler when we barge fairly into him. 
mind my paint. he yell. 
you mind mine snotty say moorshed. i be all night put these little ear mark on you for the umpire to sit on. leave em alone. 
we splash past him to the devolution s boat where sit no one le than her first lieutenant a singularly unhandy look officer. 
what the deuce be the mean of this. he roar with an accuse forefinger. 
you re sink that s all. you ve be dead half a tide. 
dead be i. i ll show you whether i m dead or not sir. 
well you may be a survivor say moorshed ingratiatingly though it isn t at all likely. 
the officer choke for a minute. the midshipman crouch up in stern say half aloud. then i be right last night. 
yesh i gasp from the dinghy s coal dust. be you member torquay yacht club. 
hell. say the first lieutenant and flee away. the cryptic s boat be already at that cruiser s side and semaphore flick zealously from ship to ship. we float a minute speck between the two hull while the pipe go for the captain s galley on the devolution. 
that s all right say moorshed. wait till the gangway s down and then board her decently. we oughtn t to be expect to climb up a ship we ve sink. 
pyecroft lay on his disreputable oar till captain malan full uniform descend the devolution s side. with due compliment not acknowledge i grieve to say we fell in behind his sumptuous galley and at last upon press invitation climb black a sweep all the lower gangway of the cryptic. at the top stand a fine a constellation of marine star a ever sing together of a morning on a king s ship. every one who could get within earshot find that his work take him aft. i count eleven able seaman polish the breechblock of the stern nine point two four marine zealously relieve each other at the life buoy six call boy nine midshipman of the watch exclusive of naval cadet and the high rank past all census. 
if i die o joy say pyecroft behind his hand remember i die forgivin morgan from the bottom of my eart because like martha we ave scoff the good part. you d good try to come to attention sir. 
moorshed run his eye voluptuously over the upper deck battery the huge beam and the immaculate perspective of power. captain panke and captain malan stand on the well brown flash plate by the dazzle hatch. precisely over the flagstaff i saw two six seven astern her black petticoat half hitch up meekly float on the still sea. she look like the pious abigail who ha just speak her mind and with fold hand sit thank heaven among the piece. i could almost have swear that she wear black worst glove and have a little dry cough. but it be captain panke that cough so austerely. he favour u with a lecture on uniform deportment and the urgent necessity of answer signal from a senior ship. he tell u that he disapprove of masquerade that he love discipline and would be oblige by an explanation. and while he deliver himself deep and more deeply into our hand i saw captain malan wince. he be watch moorshed s eye. 
i belong to blue fleet sir. i command number two six seven say moorshed and captain planke be dumb. have you such a thing a a frame plan of the cryptic aboard. he speak with win politeness a he open a small and neatly fold paper. 
i have sir. the little man s face be work with passion. 
ah. then i shall be able to show you precisely where you be torpedo last night in he consult the paper with one finely arch eyebrow in nine place. and since the devolution be i understand a sister ship he bow slightly toward caplain malan the same plan. 
i have follow the clear precision of each word with a dumb amazement which seem to leave my mind abnormally clear. i saw captain malan s eye turn from moorshed and seek that of the cryptic s commander. and he telegraph a clearly a moorshed be speak. my dear friend and brother officer i know panke. you know panke. we know panke good little panke. in le than three greenwich chronometer second panke will make an enormous as of himself and i shall have to put thing straight unless you who be a man of tact and discernment. 
carry on. the commander s order supply the unspoken word. the cruiser boil about her business around u. watch and watch officer together up to the limit of noise permissible. i saw captain malan turn to his senior. 
come to my cabin. say panke gratingly and lead the way. pyecroft and i stay still. 
it s all right say pyecroft. they daren t leave u loose aboard for one revolution and i know that he have see what i have see. 
you too. say captain malan return suddenly. we pass the sentry between white enamel wall of speckle small arm and since that royal marine light infantryman be visibly suffocate from curiosity i wink at him. we enter the chintz adorn photo speckle brass fendered tile stoved main cabin. moorshed with a ruler be demonstrate before the frame plan of h. m. s. cryptic. 
make nine stencil in all of my initial g. m. i hear him say. further you will find attach to your rudder and you too sir he bow to captain malan yet again one fourteen inch mark iv practice torpedo a issue to first class torpedo boat properly buoy. i have send full particular by telegraph to the umpire and have request them to judge on the fact a they appear. he nod through the large window to the stencil devolution awink with brass work in the morning sun and cease. 
captain panke face u. i remember that this be only play and catch myself wonder with what keen agony come the real defeat. 
good god johnny. he say drop his low lip like a child this young pup say he ha put u both out of action. inconceivable eh. my first command of one of the class. eh. what shall we do with him. what shall we do with him eh. 
a far a i can see there s no get over the stencil his companion answer. 
why didn t i have the net down. why didn t i have the net down. the cry tear itself from captain panke s chest a he twist his hand. 
i suppose we d good wait and find out what the umpire will say. the admiral win t be exactly please. captain malan speak very soothingly. moorshed look out through the stern door at two six seven. pyecroft and i at attention study the paintwork opposite. captain panke have drop into his desk chair and scribble nervously at a blot pad. 
just before the tension become unendurable he look at his junior for a lead. what what be you go to do about it johnny eh. 
well if you don t want him i m go to ask this young gentleman to breakfast and then we ll make and mend clothe till the umpire have decide. 
captain panke fling out a hand swiftly. 
come with me say captain malan. your men have good go back in the dinghy to their own ship. 
yes i think so say moorshed and pass out behind the captain. we follow at a respectful interval wait till they have ascend the ladder. 
say the sentry rigid a the naked barometer behind him. for gawd s sake. ere come ere. for gawd s sake. what s appened. oh. come ere an tell. 
tell. you. say pyecroft. neither man s lip move and the word be whisper. your ultimate illegitimate grandchild might begin to understand not you nor ever will. 
captain malan s galley away sir cry a voice above. and one reply. then get those two greaser into their dinghy and hoist the blue peter. we re out of action. 
can you do it sir. say pyecroft at the foot of the ladder. do you think it be in the english language or do you not. 
i don t think i can but i ll try. if it take me two year i ll try. 
* * * * *. 
there be witness who can testify that i have use no artifice. i have on the contrary cut away priceless slab of opus alexandrinum. my gold i have lacquer down to dull bronze my purple overlay with sepia of the sea and for hell hearted ruby and blind diamond i have substitute pale amethyst and mere jargoon. because i would say again disregard the invention of the marine captain whose other name be gubbins let a plain statement suffice. 
the comprehension of private copper. 
the king s task. 
after the sack of the city when rome be sink to a name in the year when the light be darken or ever saint wilfrid come. low on the border of britain the ancient poet sing between the cliff and the forest there rule a saxon king. 
stubborn all be his people a stark and a jealous horde not to be school by the cudgel scarce to be cow by the sword. blithe to turn at their pleasure bitter to cross in their mood and set on the way of their choose a the hog of andred s wood. 
they make them law in the witan the law of flay and fine folkland common and pannage the theft and the track of kine. statute of tun and of market for the fish and the malt and the meal the tax on the bramber packhorse and the tax on the hastings keel. over the graf of the druid and over the wreck of rome rudely but deeply they bed the plinth of the day to come. behind the foot of the legion and before the northman s ire rudely but greatly beget they the body of state and of shire. rudely but greatly they labour and their labour stand till now if we trace on our ancient headland the twist of their eight ox plough. 
the comprehension of private copper. 
private copper s father be a southdown shepherd. in early youth copper have study under him. five year army service have somewhat blunt private copper s pastoral instinct but it occur to him a a memory of the chalk that sheep or in this case buck do not move towards one across turf or in this case the colesberg kopje unless a strange or in this case an enemy be in the neighbourhood. copper helmet back first advance with caution leave his mate of the picket full a mile behind. the picket concern for it even meal do not protest. a year ago it would have be an officer s command move a such. to day it pay casual allegiance to a canadian nominally a sergeant actually a trooper of irregular horse discover convalescent in naauwport hospital and forthwith employ on odd job. private copper crawl up the side of a bluish rock strew hill thinly fringe with brush atop and remember how he have peer at sussex cony through the edge of furze clump cautiously part the dry stem before his face. at the foot of the long slope sit three farmer smoke. to his natural lust for tobacco be add personal wrath because spiky plant be prick his belly and private copper slide the backsight up to fifteen hundred yard. 
good even khaki. please don t move say a voice on his leave and a he jerk his head round he saw entirely down the barrel of a well keep lee metford protrude from an insignificant tuft of thorn. very few grave image have move le than do private copper through the next ten second. 
it s near seventeen hundred than fifteen say a young man in an obviously ready make suit of grey tweed possess himself of private copper s rifle. thank you. we ve get a post of thirty seven men out yonder. you ve eleven eh. we don t want to kill em. we have no quarrel with poor uneducated khaki and we do not want prisoner we do not keep. it be demoralise to both side eh. 
private cooper do not feel call upon to lay down the conduct of guerilla warfare. this dark skin dark haired and dark eye strange be his first intimate enemy. he speak allow for a clip cadence that recall to copper vague memory of umballa in precisely the same offensive accent that the young squire of wilmington have use fifteen year ago when he catch and kick alf copper a rabbit in each pocket out of the ditch of cuckmere. the enemy look copper up and down fold and re pocket a copy of an english weekly which he have be read and say. you seem an inarticulate sort of swine like the rest of them eh. 
you say copper think somehow of the crush answer he have never give to the young squire be a renegid. why you ain t dutch. you re english same a me. 
_no_ khaki. if you cannot talk civilly to a gentleman i will blow your head off. 
copper cringe and the action overbalance him so that he roll some six or eight foot downhill under the lee of a rough rock. his brain be work with a swiftness and clarity strange in all his experience of alf copper. while he roll he speak and the voice from his own jaw amaze him. if you do twouldn t make you any le of a renegid. a a useful afterthought he add. i ve sprain my ankle. 
the young man be at his side in a flash. copper make no motion to rise but cross legged under the rock grunt. ow much do old krujer pay you for this. what be you want for at ome. where do you desert from. 
khaki say the young man sit down in his turn you be a shade good than your mate. you do not make much more noise than a yoke of ox when you try to come up this hill but you be an ignorant diseased beast like the rest of your people eh. when you be at the rag school do they teach you any history tommy istory i mean. 
don t need no schoolin to know a renegid say copper. he have make three yard down the hill out of sight unless they could see through rock of the enemy s smoke party. 
the young man laugh. and toss the soldier a black sweat stick of true affection. private copper have not smoke a pipe for three week. 
_you don t get this eh. say the young man. _we do. we take it from the train a we want it. you can keep the cake you po ah tommee. copper ram the good stuff into his long cold pipe and puff luxuriously. two year ago the sister of gunner guard de souza east india railway have at a dance give by the sergeant to the allahabad railway volunteer inform copper that she could not think of waltz with a poo ah tommee. private copper wonder why that memory should have return at this hour. 
i m go to waste a little trouble on you before i send you back to your picket quite naked eh. then you can say how you be overpower by twenty of u and fire off your last round like the men we pick up at the drift play card at stryden s farm eh. what s your name eh. 
private copper think for a moment of a far away housemaid who might still if the local postman have not go too far be interest in his fate. on the other hand he be by temperament economical of the truth. pennycuik he say john pennycuik. 
thank you. well mr. john pennycuik i m go to teach you a little istory a you d call it eh. 
ow. say copper stuff his leave hand in his mouth. so long since i ve smoke i ve burn my and an the pipe s drop too. no objection to my movin down to fetch it be there sir. 
i ve get you cover say the young man graciously and private copper hop on one leg because of his sprain recover the pipe yet another three yard downhill and squat under another rock slightly large than the first. a roundish boulder make a pleasant rest for his captor who sit cross legged once more face copper his rifle across his knee his hand on the trigger guard. 
well mr. pennycuik a i be go to tell you. a little after you be bear in your english workhouse your kind honourable brave country england send an english gentleman who could not tell a lie to say that so long a the sun rise and the river run in their course the transvaal would belong to england. do you ever hear that khaki eh. 
oh no sir say copper. this sentence about the sun and the river happen to be a very age jest of mcbride the professional humorist of d company when they discuss the probable length of the war. copper have throw beef tin at mcbride in the grey dawn of many wet and dry camp for intone it. 
_of course you would not. now mann i tell you listen. he spat aside and clear his throat. because of that little promise my father he move into the transvaal and buy a farm a little place of twenty or thirty thousand acre don t you know. 
the tone in spite of the sing song cadence fight with the labour parody of the english drawl be unbearably like the young wilmington squire s and copper find himself say. i ought to. i ve elped burn some. 
yes you ll pay for that late. and he open a store. 
ho. shopkeeper be he. 
the kind you call sir and sweep the floor for pennycuik. you see in those day one use to believe in the british government. my father do. then the transvaal wipe thee earth with the english. they beat them six time run. you know thatt eh. 
isn t what we ve come ere for. 
_but my father. he know good now. keep on believe in the english. i suppose it be the pretty talk about river and sun that cheat him eh. anyhow he believe in his own country. inn his own country. so you see he be a little startle when he find himself hand over to the transvaal a a prisoner of war. that s what it come to tommy a prisoner of war. you know what that be eh. england be too honourable and too gentlemanly to take trouble. there be no term make for my father. 
so e make em imself. useful old bird. private copper slice up another pipeful and look out across the wrinkle sea of kopje through which come the roar of the rush orange river so unlike quiet cuckmere. 
the young man s face darken. i think i shall sjambok you myself when i ve quite do with you. no_ my father. he be a fool. make no term for eight year ninety six month and for every day of them the transvaal make his life hell for my father and his people. 
i m glad to hear that say the impenitent copper. 
be you. you can think of it when i m take the skin off your back eh. my father he lose everything everything down to his self respect. you don t know what thatt mean eh. 
why. say copper. i m smokin baccy steal by a renegid. why wouldn t i know. 
if it come to a flog on that hillside there might be a chance of reprisal. of course he might be march to the boer camp in the next valley and there operate upon. but army life teach no man to cross bridge unnecessarily. 
yes after eight year my father cheat by your bitch of a country he find out who be the upper dog in south africa. 
that s me say copper valiantly. if it take another alf century it s me an the like of me. 
you. heaven help you. you ll be scream at a wagon wheel in an hour. then it strike my father that he d like to shoot the people who d betray him. you you you. he tell his son all about it. he tell him never to trust the english. he tell him to do them all the harm he could. mann i tell you i don t want much tell. i be bear in the transvaal i m a burgher. if my father didn t love the english by the lord mann i tell you i hate them from the bottom of my soul. 
the voice quaver and run high. once more for no conceivable reason private copper find his inward eye turn upon umballa cantonment of a dry dusty afternoon when the saddle colour son of a local hotel keeper come to the barrack to complain of a theft of fowl. he saw the dark face the plover s egg tint eyeball and the thin excite hand. above all he remember the passionate queerly string word. slowly he return to south africa use the very sentence his sergeant have use to the poultry man. 
go on with your complaint. i m listenin. 
complaint. complaint about you_ you ox. we strip and kick your sort by thousand. 
the young man rock to and fro above the rifle whose muzzle thus deflect itself from the pit of private copper s stomach. his face be dusky with rage. 
yes i m a transvaal burgher. it take u about twenty year to find out how rotten you be. we know and you know it now. your army it be the laugh stock of the continent. he tap the newspaper in his pocket you think you re go to win you poor fool. your people your own people your silly rotten fool of people will crawl out of it a they do after majuba. they be begin now. look what your own work class the diseased lie drink white stuff that you come out of be say. he thrust the english weekly double at the lead article on copper s knee. see what dirty dog your master be. they do not even back you in your dirty work. we clear the country down to ladysmith to estcourt. we clear the country down to colesberg. 
yes we ad to clean up be ind you. messy i call it. 
you ve have to stop farm burn because your people daren t do it. they be afraid. you daren t kill a spy. you daren t shoot a spy when you catch him in your own uniform. you daren t touch our loyall people in cape town. your master wont let you. you will fee our woman and child till we be quite ready to take them back. you can t put your cowardly nose out of the town you say you ve occupy. you daren t move a convoy twenty mile. you think you ve do something. you ve do nothing and you ve take a quarter of a million of men to do it. there isn t a nigger in south africa that doesn t obey u if we lift our finger. you pay the stuff four pound a month and they lie to you. we flog em a i shall flog you. 
he clasp his hand together and lean forward his out thrust chin within two foot of copper s leave or pipe hand. 
yuss say copper it s a fair knock out. the fist land to a hair on the chin point the neck snick like a gun lock and the back of the head crash on the boulder behind. 
copper grab up both rifle unshipped the cross bandolier draw forth the english weekly and pick up the lax hand look long and intently at the fingernail. 
no. not a sign of it there he say. be nail be a clean a mine but he talk just like em though. and he s a landlord too. a land proprietor. shockin i call it. 
the arm begin to flap with return consciousness. private copper rise up and whisper. if you open your head i ll bash it. there be no suggestion of sprain in the fling back leave boot. now walk in front of me both arm perpendicularly elevate. i m only a third class shoot so if you don t object i ll rest the muzzle of my rifle lightly but firmly on your collar button coverin the serviceable vertebree. if your friend see u thus engage you pray ard. 
private and prisoner stagger downhill. no shot break the peace of the afternoon but once the young man check and be sick. 
there s a lot of thing i could say to you copper observe at the close of the paroxysm but it doesn t matter. look ere you call me pore tommy again. 
the prisoner hesitate. 
oh i ain t goin to do anythin to you. i m recon noiterin in my own. say pore tommy alf a dozen time. 
the prisoner obey. 
_that s what s be puzzlin me since i ad the pleasure o meetin you say copper. you ain t alf caste but you talk chee chee pukka bazar chee chee. proceed. 
hullo say the sergeant of the picket twenty minute late where do you round him up. 
on the top o yonder craggy mount. there s a mob of em sit round their bible seventeen undred yard. you say it be seventeen undred. t other side an i want some coffee. he sit down on the smoke blacken stone by the fire. 
ow do you get im. say mcbride professional humorist quietly filch the english weekly from under copper s armpit. 
on the chin while e be waggin it at me. 
what be e. nother colonial rebel to be orribly disenfranchise or a cape minister or only a loyal farmer with dynamite in both boot. tell u all about it burjer. 
you leave my prisoner alone say private copper. e s ad loss an trouble. an it s in the family too. e think i never read the paper so e kindly lend me his very own jerrold s weekly an e explain it to me a patronisin a a a a militia subaltern doin railway staff officer. e s a leave over from majuba one of the bad kind an earin the evidence a i do i don t exactly blame im. it be this way. 
to the picket private copper hold forth for ten minute on the life history of his captive. allow for some purple patch it be an absolute fair render. 
but what i dis like be this baccy priggin beggar oo s people on be own showin couldn t ave be more than thirty or forty year in the coun on this gawd forsake dust eap comin the squire over me. they re all parson we know that_ but parson an squire be a bite too thick for alf copper. why i catch im in the shameful act of tryin to start a aristocracy on a gun an a wagon an a shambuk. yes. that s what it be. a bloomin aristocracy. 
no it weren t say mcbride at length on the dirt above the purloin weekly. you re the aristocrat alf. old jerrold s givin it you ot. you re the uneducated ireling of a callous aristocracy which a sell itself to the ebrew financier. meantime ducky he run his finger down a column of assort paragraph you re slakin your brutal instincks in furious excess. shriekin woman an desolate omesteads be what you enjoy alf. halloa. what s a smokin ektacomb. 
ere. let s look. aven t see a proper spicy paper for a year. good old jerrold s. pinewood and moppet reservist fling themselves on mcbride s shoulder pin him to the grind. 
lie over your own bloomin side of the bed an we can all look he protest. 
they re only po ah tommies say copper apologetically to the prisoner. po ah unedicated khaki. they don t know what they re fightin for. they re lookin for what the diseased lie drinkin white stuff that they come from be sayin about em. 
the prisoner set down his tin of coffee and star helplessly round the circle. 
i i don t understand them. 
the canadian sergeant pick his teeth with a thorn nod sympathetically. 
if it come to that we don t in my country. say boy when you re through with your english mail you might s well provide an escort for your prisoner. he s waitin. 
arf a mo sergeant say mcbride still read. 
ere s old barbarity on the ramp again with some of be lady friend oo don t like concentration camp. wish they d visit ours. pinewood s a marry man. he d know how to be ave. 
well i ain t goin to amuse my prisoner alone. e s gettin omesick cry copper. one of you thief read out what s vexin old barbarity an be arem these day. you d good listen burjer because afterwards i m goin to fall out an perpetrate those nameless barbarity all over you to keep up the reputation of the british army. 
from that english weekly to bar out which a large and perspire staff of press censor toil seven day of the week at cape town do pinewood of the reserve read unctuously excerpt of the speech of the accredit leader of his majesty s opposition. the night picket arrive in the middle of it but stay entrance without pay any compliment till pinewood have entirely finish the lead article and several occasional note. 
gentleman of the jury say alf copper hitch up what war have leave to him of trouser you ve eard what e s be feed up with. do you blame the beggar. cause i don t. leave im alone mcbride. he s my first and only cap ture an i m goin to walk ome with im ain t i ducky. fall in burjer. it s bermuda or umballa or ceylon for you and i d give a month s pay to be in your little shoe. 
a not infrequently happen the actual move off the grind break the prisoner s nerve. he star at the tint hill round him gasp and begin to struggle kick swear weep and flutter all together. 
pore beggar oh pore pore beggar. say alf lean in on one side of him while pinewood block him on the other. 
let me go. let me go. mann i tell you let me go. 
e scream like a woman. say mcbride. they ll ear im five mile off. 
there s one or two ought to ear im in england say copper put aside a wildly wave arm. 
marry ain t e. say pinewood. i ve see em go like this before just at the last. old on old man no one s goin to urt you. 
the last of the sun throw the enormous shadow of a kopje over the little anxious wriggle group. 
quit that say the serjeant of a sudden. you re only make him bad. hand up_ prisoner. now you get a holt of yourself or this ll go off. 
and indeed the revolver barrel square at the man s pant chest seem to act like a tonic. he choke recover himself and fell in between copper and pinewood. 
a the picket near the camp it break into song that be hear among the officer tent. 
e send u be blessin from london town. the beggar that kep the cordite down. but what do we care if e smile or frown the beggar that kep the cordite down. the mildly nefarious wildly barbarious beggar that keep the cordite down. 
say a captain a mile away. why be they sing that. we haven t have a mail for a month have we. 
an hour late the same captain say to his servant. jenkins i understand the picket have get a get a newspaper off a prisoner to day. i wish you could lay hand on it jenkins. copy of the times_ i think. 
yes sir. copy of the times_ sir say jenkins without a quiver and go forth to make his own arrangement. 
copy of the times_ say the blameless alf from beneath his blanket. i ain t a member of the soldier s institoot. go an look in the reg mental readin room veldt row kopje street second turnin to the leave between ere an naauwport. 
jenkins summarise briefly in a tense whisper the thing that alf copper need not be. 
but my particular copy of the time be specially pro ibited by the censor from corruptin the moral of the army. get a write order from k. o k. properly countersign an i ll think about it. 
i ve get all you want say jenkins. urry up. i want to ave a squint myself. 
something gurgle in the darkness and private copper fell back smack his lip. 
gawd bless my prisoner and make me a good boy. amen. ere you be jenkins. it s dirt cheap at a tot. 
steam tactic. 
the necessitarian. 
i know not in whose hand be lay to empty upon earth from unsuspected ambuscade the very urn of mirth. 
who bid the heavenly lark arise and cheer our solemn round the jest behold with stream eye and grovellings on the grind. 
who join the flat of time and chance behind the prey prefer and throne on shriek circumstance the sacredly absurd. 
till laughter voiceless through excess. wave mute appeal and sore above the midriff s deep distress for breath to laugh once more. 
no creed hath dare to hail him lord no raptured choir proclaim and nature s strenuous overword hath nowhere breathe his name. 
yet may it be on wayside jape the selfsame power bestow the selfsame power a go to shape his planet or his rise. 
steam tactic i catch sight of their face a we come up behind the cart in the narrow sussex lane. but though it be not eleven o clock they be both asleep. 
that the carrier be on the wrong side of the road make no difference to his language when i ring my bell. he say aloud of motor car and specially of steam one all the thing which i have read in the face of superior coachman. then he pull slantwise across me. 
there be a vociferous steam air pump attach to that car which could be apply at pleasure. 
the cart be remove about a bowshot s length in seven and a quarter second to the accompaniment of parcel clatter. at the foot of the next hill the horse stop and the two men come out over the tail board. 
my engineer back and swing the car ready to move out of reach. 
the blight egg boiler ha steam up say mr. hinchcliffe pause to gather a large stone. temporise with the beggar pye till the sight come on. 
i can t leave my orse. roar the carrier. but bring em up ere an i ll kill em all over again. 
good morning mr. pyecroft i call cheerfully. can i give you a lift anywhere. 
the attack break up round my forewheels. 
well we do ave the knack o meet in puris naturalibus a i ve so often say. mr. pyecroft wring my hand. yes i m on leaf. so s hinch. we re visit friend among these kopje. 
a monotonous bellow up the road persist where the carrier be still call for corps. 
that s agg. he s hinch s cousin. you aren t fortunit in your family connection hinch. e s usin language in derogation of good manner. go and abolish im. 
henry salt hinchcliffe stalk back to the cart and speak to his cousin. i recall much that the wind bore to me of his word and the carrier s. it seem a if the friendship of year be dissolve amid throe. 
ave it your own silly way then roar the carrier an get into linghurst on your own silly foot. i ve do with you two runagates. he lash his horse and pass out of sight still rumble. 
the fleet s sail say pyecroft leavin u on the beach a before. have you any particular port in your mind. 
well i be go to meet a friend at instead wick but i don t mind. 
oh. that ll do a well a anything. we re on leaf you see. 
she ll hardly hold four say my engineer. i have break him of the foolish habit of be surprise at thing but he be visibly uneasy. 
hinchcliffe return draw a by rope to my steam car round which he walk in narrow circle. 
what s her speed. he demand of the engineer. 
twenty five say that loyal man. 
easy to run. 
no. very difficult be the emphatic answer. 
that just show that you ain t fit for your rat. d you suppose that a man who earn his livin by runnin knot destroyer for a parstime for a parstime mark you. be go to lie down before any blight land crab steam pinnace on spring. 
yet that be what he do. directly under the car he lay and look upward into pipe petrol steam and water with a keen and search eye. 
i telegraph mr. pyecroft a question. 
not in the least be the answer. steam gadget always take him that way. we have a bite of a riot at parsley green through his tryin to show a traction engine haulin gipsy wagon how to turn corner. 
tell him everything he want to know i say to the engineer a i drag out a rug and spread it on the roadside. 
_he don t want much show say the engineer. now the two men have not count the time we take to stuff our pipe be together more than three minute. 
this say pyecroft drive an elbow back into the deep verdure of the hedge foot be a little bite of all right. hinch i shouldn t let too much o that hot muck drop in my eye your leaf s up in a fortnight an you ll be wantin em. 
here. say hinchcliffe still on his back to the engineer. come here and show me the lead of this pipe. and the engineer lay down beside him. 
that s all right say mr. hinchcliffe rise. but she s more of a bag of trick than i think. unship this superstructure aft he point to the back seat and i ll have a look at the force draught. 
the engineer obey with alacrity. i hear him volunteer the fact that he have a brother an artificer in the navy. 
they couple very well those two say pyecroft critically while hinchcliffe sniff round the asbestos lag boiler and turn on gay jet of steam. 
now take me up the road he say. my man for form s sake look at me. 
yes take him i say. he s all right. 
no i m not say hinchcliffe of a sudden not if i m expect to judge my water out of a little shave glass. 
the water gauge of that steam car be reflect on a mirror to the right of the dashboard. i also have find it inconvenient. 
throw up your arm and look at the gauge under your armpit. only mind how you steer while you re do it or you ll get ditch. i cry a the car run down the road. 
i wonder. say pyecroft muse. but after all it s your steamin gadget he s usin for his libretto a you might put it. he say to me after breakfast only this mornin ow he thank his maker on all four that he wouldn t see nor smell nor thumb a runnin bulgine till the nineteenth prox. now look at him only look at im. 
we could see down the long slope of the road my driver surrender his seat to hinchcliffe while the car flicker generously from hedge to hedge. 
what happen if he upset. 
the petrol will light up and the boiler may blow up. 
how rambunkshus. and pyecroft blow a slow cloud agg s about three hoop up this mornin too. 
what s that to do with u. he s go down the road i retort. 
ye e but we ll overtake him. he s a vindictive carrier. he and hinch ad word about pig breed this morning. o course hinch don t know the element o that evolution. but he fell back on be naval rank an office an agg grow peevish. i wasn t sorry to get out of the cart. have you ever consider how when you an i meet so to say there s nearly always a remarkable hectic day ahead of u. hullo. behold the beef boat returnin. 
he rise a the car climb up the slope and shout. in bow. way nuff. 
you be quiet. cry hinchcliffe and draw up opposite the rug his dark face shin with joy. she s the poetry o motion. she s the angel s dream. she s he shut off steam and the slope be against her the car slide soberly downhill again. 
what s this. i ve get the brake on. he yell. 
it doesn t hold backwards i say. put her on the mid link. 
that s a nasty one for the chief engineer o the djinn_ knot t. b. d. say pyecroft. _do you know what the mid link be hinch. 
once more the car return to u. but a pyecroft stoop to gather up the rug hinchcliffe jerk the lever testily and with prawn like speed she retire backwards into her own steam. 
apparently e don t say pyecroft. what s he do now sir. 
reverse her. i ve do it myself. 
but he s an engineer. 
for the third time the car manoeuvre up the hill. 
i ll teach you to come alongside properly if i keep you tiffies out all night. shout pyecroft. it be evidently a quotation. hinchcliffe s face grow livid and his hand ever so slightly work on the throttle the car buzz twenty yard uphill. 
that s enough. we ll take your word for it. the mountain will go to ma ommed. stand fast. 
pyecroft and i and the rug march up where she and hinchcliffe fume together. 
not a easy a it look eh hinch. 
it be dead easy. i m go to drive her to instead wick aren t i. say the first class engine room artificer. i think of his performance with no. and nod. after all it be a small privilege to accord to pure genius. 
but my engineer will stand by at first i add. 
an you a family man too mutter pyecroft swing himself into the right rear seat. sure to be a remarkably hectic day when we meet. 
we adjust ourselves and in the language of the immortal navy doctor pave our way towards linghurst distant by mile post / mile. 
mr. hinchcliffe every nerve and muscle brace talk only to the engineer and that professionally. i recall the time when i too have enjoy the rack on which he voluntarily extend himself. 
and the county of sussex slide by in slow time. 
how cautious be the tiffy bird. say pyecroft. 
even in a destroyer hinch snap over his shoulder you ain t expect to con and drive simultaneous. don t address any remark to me. 
pump. say the engineer. your water s droppin. 
_i know that. where the heaven be that blight by pas. 
he beat his right or throttle hand madly on the side of the car till he find the bend rod that more or le control the pump and neglect all else twist it furiously. 
my engineer grab the steer bar just in time to save u lurch into a ditch. 
if i be a burnin peacock with two hundred bloodshot eye in my shinin tail i d need em all on this job. say hinch. 
don t talk. steer. this ain t the north atlantic pyecroft reply. 
blast my stoker. why the steam s drop fifty pound. hinchcliffe cry. 
fire s blow out say the engineer. stop her. 
doe she do that often. say hinch descend. 
sometimes. 
anytime. 
any time a cross wind catch her. 
the engineer produce a match and stoop. 
that car. now thank heaven no more than an evil memory. never light twice in the same fashion. this time she back fire superbly and pyecroft go out over the right rear wheel in a column of rich yellow flame. 
i ve see a mine explode at bantry once prematoor he volunteer. 
that s all right say hinchcliffe brush down his sing beard with a sing forefinger. he have be watch too closely. ha she any more little surprise up her dainty sleeve. 
she hasn t begin yet say my engineer with a scornful cough. some one a open the petrol supply valve too wide. 
change place with me pyecroft i command for i remember that the petrol supply the steam lock and the force draught be all control from the right rear seat. 
me. why. there s a whole switchboard full o nickel plat muckin s which i haven t begin to play with yet. the starboard side s crawlin with em. 
change or i ll kill you. say hinchcliffe and he look like it. 
that s the tiffy all over. when anything go wrong blame it on the low deck. navigate by your automatic self then. i win t help you any more. 
we navigate for a mile in dead silence. 
talkin o wake say pyecroft suddenly. 
we weren t hinchcliffe grunt. 
there s some wake would break a snake s back. but this of yours so to speak would fair turn a tapeworm giddy. that s all i wish to observe hinch. cart at anchor on the port bow. it s agg. 
far up the shade road into seclude bromlingleigh we saw the carrier s cart at rest before the post office. 
he s bung in the fairway. how m i to get past. say hinchcliffe. there s no room. here pye come and relieve the wheel. 
nay nay pauline. you ve make your own bed. you ve a good a leave your happy home an family cart to steal it. now you lie on it. 
ring your bell i suggest. 
glory. say pyecroft fall forward into the nape of hinchcliffe s neck a the car stop dead. 
get out o my back hair. that must have be the brake i touch off hinchcliffe mutter and repair his error tumultuously. 
we pass the cart a though we have be all bruges belfry. agg from the port office door regard u with a too pacific eye. i remember late that the pretty postmistress look on u pityingly. 
hinchcliffe wipe the sweat from his brow and draw breath. it be the first vehicle that he have pass and i sympathise with him. 
you needn t grip so hard say my engineer. she steer a easy a a bicycle. 
ho. you suppose i ride bicycle up an down my engine room. be the answer. i ve other thing to think about. she s a terror. she s a whistlin lunatic. i d sooner run the old south easter at simon s town than her. 
one of the nice thing they say about her i interrupt be that no engineer be need to run this machine. 
no. they d need about seven. 
common sense only be need i quote. 
make a note of that hinch. just common sense pyecroft put in. 
and now i say we ll have to take in water. there isn t more than a couple of inch of water in the tank. 
where d you get it from. 
oh. cottage and such like. 
yes but that be so where doe your much advertise twenty five mile an hour come in. ain t a dung cart more to the point. 
if you want to go anywhere i suppose it would be i reply. 
_i don t want to go anywhere. i m thinkin of you who ve get to live with her. she ll burn her tube if she lose her water. 
she will. 
i ve never scorch yet and i not beginnin now. he shut off steam firmly. out you get pye an shove her along by hand. 
where to. 
the near water tank be the reply. and sussex be a dry county. 
she ought to have drag rope little pipe clayed one say pyecroft. 
we get out and push under the hot sun for half a mile till we come to a cottage sparsely inhabit by one child who weep. 
all out haymakin o course say pyecroft thrust his head into the parlour for an instant. what s the evolution now. 
skirmish till we find a well i say. 
hmm. but they wouldn t ave leave that kid without a chaperon so to say. i think so. where s a stick. 
a bluish and silent beast of the true old sheep dog breed glide from behind an outhouse and without word fell to work. 
pyecroft keep him at bay with a rake handle while our party in rally square retire along the box border brick path to the car. 
at the garden gate the dumb devil halt look back on the child and sit down to scratch. 
that s his three mile limit thank heaven. say pyecroft. fall in push party and proceed with land transport o pinnace. i ll protect your flank in case this sniffin flea bag be tempt beyond be strength. 
we push off in silence. the car weigh lb. and even on ball bearing be a powerful sudorific. from somewhere behind a hedge we hear a gross rustic laugh. 
those be the beggar we lie awake for patrollin the high sea. there ain t a port in china where we wouldn t be good treat. yes a boxer ud be ashamed of it say pyecroft. 
a cloud of fine dust boom down the road. 
some happy craft with a well find engine room. how different. pant hinchcliffe bend over the starboard mudguard. 
it be a claret colour petrol car and it stop courteously a good car will at sight of trouble. 
water only water i answer in reply to offer of help. 
there s a lodge at the end of these oak paling. they ll give you all you want. say i send you. gregory michael gregory. good bye. 
ought to ave be in the service. prob ly be be pyecroft s comment. 
at that thrice bless lodge our water tank be fill. i dare not quote mr. hinchcliffe s remark when he saw the collapsible rubber bucket with which we do it. and we re embark. it seem that sir michael gregory own many acre and that his park run for mile. 
no objection to your go through it say the lodge keeper. it ll save you a goodish bite to instead wick. 
but we need petrol which could be purchase at pigginfold a few mile farther up and so we hold to the main road a our fate have decree. 
we ve come seven mile in fifty four minute so far say hinchcliffe. he be drive with great freedom and le responsibility. and now we have to fill our bunker. this be bad than the channel fleet. 
at pigginfold after ten minute we refill our petrol tank and lavishly oil our engine. mr. hinchcliffe wish to discharge our engineer on the ground that he. mr. hinchcliffe. be now entirely abreast of his work. to this i demur for i know my car. she have in the language of the road hold up for a day and a half and by most bitter experience i suspect that her time be very near. therefore three mile short of linghurst i be le surprise than any one except always my engineer when the engine set up a lunatic cluck and after two or three kick jam. 
heaven forgive me all the harsh thing i may have say about destroyer in my sinful time. wail hinchcliffe snap back the throttle. what s worryin ada now. 
the forward eccentric strap screw s drop off say the engineer investigate. 
that all. i think it be a propeller blade. 
we must go an look for it. there isn t another. 
not me say pyecroft from his seat. out pinnace hinch an creep for it. it win t be more than five mile back. 
the two men with bow head move up the road. 
look like etymologist don t they. doe she decant her innards often so to speak. pyecroft ask. 
i tell him the true tale of a race full of ball bearing strew four mile along a hampshire road and by me recover in detail. he be profoundly touch. 
poor hinch. poor poor hinch. he say. and that s only one of her little game be it. he ll be homesick for the navy by night. 
when the search party double back with the miss screw it be hinchcliffe who replace it in le than five minute while my engineer look on admiringly. 
your boiler s only seat on four little paperclip he say crawl from beneath her. she s a wicker willow lunch basket below. she s a runnin miracle. have you have this combustible spirit lamp long. 
i tell him. 
and yet you be afraid to come into the nightmare s engine room when we be runnin trial. 
it s all a matter of taste pyecroft volunteer. but i will say for you hinch you ve certainly get the hang of her steamin gadget in quick time. 
he be drive her very sweetly but with a worry look in his eye and a tremor in his arm. 
she don t seem so answer her helm somehow he say. 
there s a lot of play to the steer gear say my engineer. we generally tighten it up every few mile. 
like me to stop now. we ve run a much a one mile and a half without incident he reply tartly. 
then you re lucky say my engineer bristle in turn. 
they ll wreck the whole turret out o nasty professional spite in a minute say pyecroft. that s the bad o machinery. man dead ahead hinch semaphorin like the flagship in a fit. 
amen. say hinchcliffe. shall i stop or shall i cut him down. 
he stop for full in the centre of the linghurst road stand a person in pepper and salt raiment. ready make. with a brown telegraph envelope in his hand. 
twenty three and a half mile an hour he begin weigh a small beam engine of a waterbury in one red paw. from the top of the hill over our measure quarter mile twenty three and a half. 
you manurial gardener hinchcliffe begin. i prod him warningly from behind and lay the other hand on pyecroft s stiffen knee. 
also on information receive drink and disorderly in charge of a motor car to the common danger two men like sailor in appearance the man go on. 
like sailor. that s agg s little roose. no wonder he smile at u say pyecroft. 
i ve be wait for you some time the man conclude fold up the telegram. 
who s the owner. 
i indicate myself. 
then i want you a well a the two seafaring men. drink and disorderly can be treat summary. you come on. 
my relation with the sussex constabulary have so far be of the best but i could not love this person. 
of course you have your authority to show. i hint. 
i ll show it you at linghurst he retort hotly all the authority you want. 
i only want the badge or warrant or whatever it be a plain clothe man ha to show. 
he make a though to produce it but check himself repeat le politely the invitation to linghurst. the action and the tone confirm my many time test theory that the bulk of english shoregoing institution be base on conformable stratum of absolutely impervious inaccuracy. i reflect and become aware of a drum on the back of the front seat that pyecroft bow forward and relax be tap with his knuckle. the hardly check fury on hinchcliffe s brow have give place to a greasy imbecility and he nod over the steer bar. in long and short a lay down by the pious and immortal mr. morse pyecroft tap out sham drink. get him in the car. 
i can t stay here all day say the constable. 
pyecroft raise his head. then be see with what majesty the british sailor man envisage a new situation. 
meet gennelman heavy sheeway say he. do tell me british gelman can t give ole brish navy lif own blight ste cart. have another drink. 
i didn t know they be a drink a all that when they stop me i explain. 
you can say all that at linghurst be the answer. come on. 
quite right i say. but the question be if you take these two out on the road they ll fall down or start kill you. 
then i d call on you to assist me in the execution o my duty. 
but i d see you further first. you d good come with u in the car. i ll turn this passenger out. this be my engineer sit quite silent. you don t want him and anyhow he d only be a witness for the defence. 
that s true say the constable. but it wouldn t make any odds at linghurst. 
my engineer skip into the bracken like a rabbit. i bid him cut across sir michael gregory s park and if he catch my friend to tell him i should probably be rather late for lunch. 
i ain t go to be drive by him. our destine prey point at hinchcliffe with apprehension. 
of course not. you sake my seat and keep the big sailor in order. he s too drink to do much. i ll change place with the other one. only be quick. i want to pay my fine and get it over. 
that s the way to look at it he say drop into the leave rear seat. we re make quite a lot out o you motor gentry. he fold his arm judicially a the car gather way under hinchcliffe s stealthy hand. 
but you aren t drive. he cry half rise. 
you ve notice it. say pyecroft and embrace him with one anaconda like leave arm. 
don t kill him say hinchcliffe briefly. i want to show him what twenty three and a quarter be. we be go a fair twelve which be about the car s limit. 
our passenger swear something and then groan. 
hush darling. say pyecroft or i ll have to hug you. 
the main road white under the noon sun lay broad before u run north to linghurst. we slow and look anxiously for a side track. 
and now say i i want to see your authority. 
the badge of your ratin. pyecroft add. 
i m a constable he say and kick. indeed his boot would have bewray him across half a county s plough. but boot be not legal evidence. 
i want your authority i repeat coldly. some evidence that you be not a common drunken tramp. 
it be a i have expect. he have forget or mislay his badge. he have neglect to learn the outline of the work for which he receive money and consideration. and he expect me the tax payer to go to infinite trouble to supplement his deficiency. 
if you don t believe me come to linghurst be the burden of his almost national anthem. 
but i can t run all over sussex every time a blackmailer jump up and say he be a policeman. 
why it s quite close he persist. 
twon t be soon say hinchcliffe. 
none of the other people ever make any trouble. to be sure they be gentleman he cry. all i can say be it may be very funny but it ain t fair. 
i labour with him in this dense fog but to no end. he have forget his badge and we be villain for that we do not cart him to the pub or barrack where he have leave it. 
pyecroft listen critically a we spin along the hard road. 
if he be a concentrate boer he couldn t expect much more he observe. now suppose i d be a lady in a delicate state o health you d ha make me very ill with your do. 
i wish i ad. ere. elp. elp. hi. 
the man have see a constable in uniform fifty yard ahead where a lane run into the road and would have say more but that hinchcliffe jerk her up that lane with a wrench that nearly capsize u a the constable come run heavily. 
it seem to me that both our guest and his fellow villain in uniform smile a we flee down the road easterly betwixt the narrow hedge. 
you ll know all about it in a little time say our guest. you ve only yourselves to thank for runnin your ead into a trap. and he whistle ostentatiously. 
we make no answer. 
if that man ad choose e could have identify me he say. 
still we be silent. 
but e ll do it late when you re catch. 
not if you go on talk. e win t be able to say pyecroft. i don t know what traverse you think you re workin but your duty till you re put in cell for a highway robber be to love honour an cherish me most special performin all evolution signal in rapid time. i tell you this in case o anything turnin up. 
don t you fret about thing turnin up be the reply. 
hinchcliffe have give the car a generous throttle and she be well set to work when without warn the road there be two or three in sussex like it turn down and cease. 
holy muckins. he cry and stand on both brake a our helpless tyre slither over wet grass and bracken down and down into forest early british woodland. it be the change of a nightmare and that all should fit fifty yard ahead of u a babble brook bar our way. on the far side a velvet green ride sprinkle with rabbit and fern gently slop upwards and away but behind u be no hope. forty horse power would never have roll wet pneumatic tyre up that verdurous cliff we have descend. 
h m. our guest cough significantly. a great many car think they can take this road. but they all come back. we walk after em at our convenience. 
meanin that the other jaunty be now pursuin u on his lily foot. say pyecroft. 
_pre_cisely. 
an you think say pyecroft. i have no hope to render the scorn of the word. _that ll make any odds. get out. 
the man obey with alacrity. 
see those spar up end over there. i mean that wickyup thing. hop pole then you rural blighter. keep on fetch me hop pole at the double. 
and he double pyecroft at his heel. for they have arrive at a perfect understand. 
there be a stack of hurdle a few yard down. 
stream lay aside after sheep wash. and there be step stone in the brook. hinchcliffe rearrange these last to make some sort of causeway. i bring up the hurdle. and when pyecroft and his subaltern have drop a dozen hop pole across the stream lay them down over all. 
talk o the agricultur l hall. he say mop his brow tisn t in it with u. the approach to the bridge must now be pave with hurdle owin to the squashy nature o the country. yes an we d good have one or two on the far side to lead her on to terror fermior. now hinch. give her full steam and op along. if she slip off we re do. shall i take the wheel. 
no. this be my job say the first class engine room artificer. get over the far side and be ready to catch her if she jib on the uphill. 
we cross that elastic structure and stand ready amid the bracken. hinchcliffe give her a full steam and she come like a destroyer on her trial. there be a crack a flicker of white water and she be in our arm fifty yard up the slope. or rather we be behind her push her madly towards a patch of raw gravel whereon her wheel could bite. of the bridge remain only a few wildly vibrate hop pole and those hurdle which have be sink in the mud of the approach. 
she she kick out all the loose one behind her a she finish with em hinchcliffe pant. 
at the agricultural hall they would ave be fasten down with ribbon say pyecroft. but this ain t olympia. 
she nearly wrench the tiller out of my hand. don t you think i con her like a cock angel pye. 
_i never saw anything like it say our guest propitiatingly. and now gentleman if you ll let me go back to linghurst i promise you you win t hear another word from me. 
get in say pyecroft a we puff out on to a metal road once more. we aven t begin on you yet. 
a joke s a joke he reply. i don t mind a little bite of a joke myself but this be go beyond it. 
mile an mile beyond it if this machine stand up. we ll want water pretty soon. 
our guest s countenance brighten and pyecroft perceive it. 
let me tell you he say earnestly i win t make any difference to you whatever happen. barrin a dhow or two tajurrah way prize be scarce in the navy. hence we never abandon em. 
there be a long silence. pyecroft break it suddenly. 
robert he say have you a mother. 
yes. 
have you a big brother. 
yes. 
an a little sister. 
yes. 
robert. doe your mamma keep a dog. 
yes. why. 
all right robert. i win t forget it. 
i look for an explanation. 
i saw his cabinet photograph in full uniform on the mantelpiece o that cottage before faithful fido turn up pyecroft whisper. ain t you glad it s all in the family somehow. 
we fill with water at a cottage on the edge of st. leonard s forest and despite our increase leakage make shift to climb the ridge above instead wick. know the car a i do i felt sure that final collapse would not be long delay. my sole concern be to run our guest well into the wilderness before that come. 
on the roof of the world a naked plateau clothe with young heather she retire from active life in flood of tear. her fee water heater. hinchcliffe bless it and it maker for three minute. be leak beyond hope of repair. she have shift most of her pack and her water pump would not lift. 
if i have a bite of pip i could disconnect this tin cartridge case an fee direct into the boiler. it ud knock down her speed but we could get on say he and look hopelessly at the long dun ridge that heave u above the panorama of sussex. northward we could see the london haze. southward between gap of the whale back down lay the channel s zinc blue. but all our available population in that vast survey be one cow and a kestrel. 
it s down hill to instead wick. we can run her there by gravity i say at last. 
then he ll only have to walk to the station to get home. unless we take off be boot first pyecroft reply. 
that say our guest earnestly would be theft atop of assault and very serious. 
oh let s hang him an be do hinchcliffe grunt. it s evidently what he s sufferin for. 
somehow murder do not appeal to u that warm noon. we sit down to smoke in the heather and presently out of the valley below come the thick beat of a petrol motor ascend. i pay little attention to it till i hear the roar of a horn that ha no duplicate in all the home county. 
that s the man i be go to lunch with. i cry. hold on. and i run down the road. 
it be a big black black dash tonneaued twenty four horse octopod. and it bore not only kysh my friend and salmon his engineer but my own man who for the first time in our acquaintance smile. 
do they get you. what do you get. i be come into linghurst a witness to character your man tell me what happen but i be stop near instead wick myself cry kysh. 
what for. 
leave car unattended. an infernal swindle when you think of the loose cart outside every pub in the county. i be jaw with the police for an hour but it s no use. they ve get it all their own way and we re helpless. 
hereupon i tell him my tale and for proof a we top the hill point out the little group round my car. 
all supreme emotion be dumb. kysh put on the brake and hug me to his bosom till i groan. then a i remember he croon like a mother return to her suckle. 
divine. divine. he murmur. command me. 
take charge of the situation i say. you ll find a mr. pyecroft on the quarter deck. i m altogether out of it. 
he shall stay there. who be i but the instrument of vengeance in the hand of an over rule providence. and i put in fresh spark plug this morning. salmon take that steam kettle home somehow. i would be alone. 
leggat i say to my man help salmon home with my car. 
home. now. it s hard. it s cruel hard say leggat almost with a sob. 
hinchcliffe outline my car s condition briefly to the two engineer. mr. pyecroft cling to our guest who star with affright eye at the palpitate octopod. and the free wind of high sussex whimper across the ling. 
i be quite agreeable to walkin ome all the way on my foot say our guest. i wouldn t go to any railway station. it ud be just the proper finish to our little joke. he laugh nervously. 
what s the evolution. say pyecroft. do we turn over to the new cruiser. 
i nod and he escort our guest to the tonneau with care. when i be in he sit himself broad arm on the little flap seat which control the door. hinchcliffe sit by kysh. 
you drive. kysh ask with the smile that ha win him his chequer way through the world. 
steam only and i ve about have my whack for to day thank. 
i see. 
the long low car slide forward and then drop like a bullet down the descent our steam toy have so painfully climb. our guest s face blanch and he clutch the back of the tonneau. 
new commander s evidently be train on a destroyer say hinchcliffe. 
what s be wonderful name. whisper pyecroft. ho. well i m glad it ain t saul we ve run up against nor nimshi for that matter. this be makin me feel religious. 
our impetus carry u half way up the next slope where we steady to a resonant fifteen an hour against the collar. 
what do you think. i call to hinchcliffe. 
taint a sweet a steam o course. but for power it s twice the furious against half the jaseur in a head sea. 
volume could not have touch it more exactly. his bright eye be glue on kysh s hand juggle with lever behind the discreet backward slop dash. 
an what sort of a brake might you use. he say politely. 
this kysh reply a the last of the hill shoot up to one in eight. he let the car run back a few foot and catch her deftly on the brake repeat the performance cup and ball fashion. it be like be daped above the pit at the end of an uncoil solar plexus. even pyecroft hold his breath. 
it ain t fair. it ain t fair. our guest moan. you re makin me sick. 
what an ungrateful blighter he be. say pyecroft. money couldn t buy you a run like this. do it well overboard. 
we ll just trundle up the forest and drop into the park row i think say kysh. there s a bite of good go hereabouts. 
he fling a careless knee over the low rake tiller that the ordinary expert put under his armpit and down four mile of yellow road cut through barren waste the octopod sing like a six inch shell. 
whew. but you know your job say hinchcliffe. you re waste here. i d give something to have you in my engine room. 
he s steer with be little hind leg say pyecroft. stand up and look at him robert. you ll never see such a sight again. 
nor don t want to be our guest s reply. five undred pound wouldn t begin to cover be fine even since i ve be with him. 
park row be reach by one hill which drop three hundred foot in half a mile. kysh have the think to steer with his hand down the aby but the manner in which he take the curve bridge at the bottom bring my few remain hair much near the grave. 
we re in surrey now. good look out i say. 
never mind. i ll roll her into kent for a bite. we ve lot of time. it s only three o clock. 
win t you want to fill your bunker or take water or oil her up. say hinchcliffe. 
we don t use water and she s good for two hundred on one tank o petrol if she doesn t break down. 
two hundred mile from ome and mother and faithful fido to night robert say pyecroft slap our guest on the knee. cheer up. why i ve know a destroyer do le. 
we pass with some decency through some town till by way of the hastings road we whirl into cramberhurst which be a deep pit. 
now say kysh we begin. 
previous service not reckon towards pension say pyecroft. we be doin you lavish robert. 
but when s this silly game to finish any ow. our guest snarl. 
don t worry about the when of it robert. the where s the interestin point for you just now. 
i have see kysh drive before and i think i know the octopod but that afternoon he and she be exalt beyond my knowledge. he improvise on the key the snap lever and quiver accelerator marvellous variation so that our progress be sometimes a fugue and sometimes a barn dance vary on open green by the weave of fairy ring. when i protest all that he would say be. i ll hypnotise the fowl. i ll dazzle the rooster. or other word equally futile. and she oh. that i could do her justice. she turn her broad black bow to the westering light and lift u high upon hill that we might see and rejoice with her. she whoop into veil hollow of elm and sussex oak. she devour infinite perspective of park paling. she surge through forget hamlet whose single street give back reduplicate the clatter of her exhaust and tireless she repeat the motion. over naked upland she drone like a home bee her shadow lengthen in the sun that she chase to his lair. she nose up unparochial byway and accommodation road of the least accommodation and put old scar turf or new raise molehill under her most marvellous spring with never a jar. and since the king s highway be use for every purpose save traffic in mid career she step aside for or fling amaze loop about the brainless driver the driverless horse the drunken carrier the engage couple the female student of the bicycle and her stagger instructor the pig the perambulator and the infant school. where it disembogued yelp on cross road. with the grace of nellie farren. upon whom be the peace. and the lithe abandon of all the vokes family. but at heart she be ever judic a i remember that judic long ago judic clothe in bourgeois black from wrist to ankle achieve incredible impropriety. 
we be silent hinchcliffe and pyecroft through professional appreciation. i with a layman s delight in the expert. and our guest because of fear. 
at the edge of the even she smelt the sea to southward and sheer thither like the strong wing albatross to circle enormously amid green flat fringe by martello tower. 
ain t that eastbourne yonder. say our guest revive. i ve a aunt there she s cook to a j. p. could identify me. 
don t worry her for a little thing like that say pyecroft. and ere he have cease to praise family love our unpaid judiciary and domestic service the down rise between u and the sea and the long man of hillingdon lay out upon the turf. 
trevington up yonder be a fairly isolate little dorp i say for i be begin to feel hungry. 
no say kysh. he d get a lift to the railway in no time. besides i m enjoy myself. three pound eighteen and sixpence. infernal swindle. 
i take it one of his more recent fine be rankle in kysh s brain. but he drive like the archangel of the twilight. 
about the longitude of cassock hinchcliffe yawn. aren t we goin to maroon our robert. i m hungry too. 
the commodore want his money back i answer. 
if he drive like this habitual there must be a tidyish little lump owin to him say pyecroft. well i m agreeable. 
i didn t know it could be do. s welp me i didn t our guest murmur. 
but you will say kysh. and that be the first and last time he address the man. 
we run through penfield green half stupefy with open air drug with the relentless boom of the octopod and extinct with famine. 
i use to shoot about here say kysh a few mile further on. open that gate please and he slow a the sun touch the sky line. at this point we leave metal road and buck vigorously amid ditch and under tree for twenty minute. 
only cross country car on the market he say a we wheel into a straw yard where a lone bull bellow defiance to our growling. open that gate please. i hope the cattle bridge will stand up. 
i ve take a few risk in my time say pyecroft a timber crack beneath u and we enter between thicket but i m a babe to this man hinch. 
don t talk to me. watch him. it s a liberal education a shakespeare say. fall tree on the port bow sir. 
right. that s my mark. sit tight. 
she fling up her tail like a sound whale and bury u in a fifteen foot deep bridle path buttress with the expose root of enormous beech. the wheel leap from root to round boulder and it be very dark in the shadow of the foliage. 
there ought to be a hammer pond somewhere about here. kysh be let her down this chute in brakeful spasm. 
water dead ahead sir. stack o brushwood on the starboard beam and no road sing pyecroft. 
cr r ri key. say hinchcliffe a the car on a wild cant to the leave go astern screw herself round the angle of a track that overhang the pond. if she only have two propeller i believe she d talk poetry. she can do everything else. 
we re rather on our port wheel now say kysh. but i don t think she ll capsize. this road isn t use much by motor. 
you don t say so say pyecroft. what a pity. 
she bore through a mass of crackle brushwood and emerge into an upward slop fern glade fence with wood so virgin so untouched that william rufus might have ride off a we enter. we climb out of the violet purple shadow towards the upland where the last of the day linger. i be fill to my moist eye with the almost sacred beauty of sense and association that clothe the landscape. 
doe unger produce alluciations. say pyecroft in a whisper. because i ve just see a sacred ibis walkin arm in arm with a british cock pheasant. 
what be you panickin at. say hinchcliffe. i ve be seein zebra for the last two minute but i aven t complain. 
he point behind u and i behold a superb paint zebra. burchell s i think. follow our track with palpitate nostril. the car stop and it flee away. 
there be a little pond in front of u from which rise a dome of irregular stick crown with a blunt muzzle beast that sit upon it haunch. 
be it catch. say pyecroft. 
yes. i m see beaver i reply. 
it be here. say kysh with the air and gesture of captain nemo and half turn. 
no no no. for eaven s sake not ere. our guest gasp like a sea bath child a four efficient hand swing him far out board on to the turf. the car run back noiselessly down the slope. 
look. look. it s sorcery. cry hinchcliffe. 
there be a report like a pistol shoot a the beaver dive from the roof of his lodge but we watch our guest. he be on his knee pray to kangaroo. yea in his bowler hat he kneel before kangaroo gigantic erect silhouette against the light four buck kangaroo in the heart of sussex. 
and we retrogress over the velvet grass till our hind wheel strike well roll gravel lead u to sanity main road and half an hour late the grapnel inn at horsham. 
* * * * *. 
after a great meal we pour libation and make burn offering in honour of kysh who receive our homage graciously and by the way explain a few thing in the natural history line that have puzzle u. england be a most marvellous country but one be not till one know the eccentricity of large land owner train to accept kangaroo zebra or beaver a part of it landscape. 
when we go to bed pyecroft press my hand his voice thick with emotion. 
we owe it to you he say. we owe it all to you. didn t i say we never meet in pup pup puris naturalibus_ if i may so put it without a remarkably hectic day ahead of u. 
that s all right i say. mind the candle. he be trace smoke pattern on the wall. 
but what i want to know be whether we ll succeed in acclimatisin the blighter or whether sir william gardner s keeper ll kill im before e get accustom to be surroundin s. 
some day i think we must go up the linghurst road and find out. 
wireless. 
kaspar s song in varda. 
from the swedish of stagnelius. 
eye aloft over dangerous place the child follow where psyche fly and in the sweat of their upturned face slash with a net at the empty sky. 
so it go they fall amid bramble and sting their toe on the nettle top till after a thousand scratch and scramble they wipe their brow and the hunt stop. 
then to quiet them come their father and still the riot of pain and grief say little one go and gather out of my garden a cabbage leaf. 
you will find on it whorl and clot of dull grey egg that properly feed turn by way of the worm to lot of radiant psyche raise from the dead. 
* * * * *. 
heaven be beautiful earth be ugly the three dimension preacher saith so we must not look where the snail and the slug lie for psyche s birth. and that be our death. 
wireless it s a funny thing this marconi business isn t it. say mr. shaynor cough heavily. nothing seem to make any difference by what they tell me storm hill or anything. but if that s true we shall know before morning. 
of course it s true i answer step behind the counter. where s old mr. cashell. 
he s have to go to bed on account of his influenza. he say you d very likely drop in. 
where s his nephew. 
inside get the thing ready. he tell me that the last time they experiment they put the pole on the roof of one of the big hotel here and the battery electrify all the water supply and he giggle the lady get shock when they take their bath. 
i never hear of that. 
the hotel wouldn t exactly advertise it would it. just now by what mr. cashell tell me they re try to signal from here to poole and they re use strong battery than ever. but you see he be the guvnor s nephew and all that. and it will be in the paper too. it doesn t matter how they electrify thing in this house. be you go to watch. 
very much. i ve never see this game. aren t you go to bed. 
we don t close till ten on saturday. there s a good deal of influenza in town too and there ll be a dozen prescription come in before morning. i generally sleep in the chair here. it s warm than jump out of bed every time. bitter cold isn t it. 
freeze hard. i m sorry your cough s bad. 
thank you. i don t mind cold so much. it s this wind that fair cut me to piece. he cough again hard and hackingly a an old lady come in for ammoniate quinine. we ve just run out of it in bottle madam say mr. shaynor return to the professional tone but if you will wait two minute i ll make it up for you madam. 
i have use the shop for some time and my acquaintance with the proprietor have ripen into friendship. it be mr. cashell who reveal to me the purpose and power of apothecary hall what time a fellow chemist have make an error in a prescription of mine have lie to cover his sloth and when error and lie be bring home to him have write vain letter. 
a disgrace to our profession say the thin mild eye man hotly after study the evidence. you couldn t do a good service to the profession than report him to apothecary hall. 
i do so not know what djinn i should evoke. and the result be such an apology a one might make who have spend a night on the rack. i conceive great respect for apothecary hall and esteem for mr. cashell a zealous craftsman who magnify his call. until mr. shaynor come down from the north his assistant have by no mean agree with mr. cashell. they forget say he that first and foremost the compound be a medicine man. on him depend the physician s reputation. he hold it literally in the hollow of his hand sir. 
mr. shaynor s manner have not perhaps the polish of the grocery and italian warehouse next door but he know and love his dispensary work in every detail. for relaxation he seem to go no farther afield than the romance of drug their discovery preparation pack and export but it lead him to the end of the earth and on this subject and the pharmaceutical formulary and nicholas culpepper most confident of physician we meet. 
little by little i grow to know something of his beginning and his hope of his mother who have be a school teacher in one of the northern county and of his red head father a small job master at kirby moor who die when he be a child. of the examination he have pass and of their exceed and increase difficulty. of his dream of a shop in london. of his hate for the price cut co operative store. and most interest of his mental attitude towards customer. 
there s a way you get into he tell me of serve them carefully and i hope politely without stop your own think. i ve be read christie s new commercial plant all this autumn and that need keep your mind on it i can tell you. so long a it isn t a prescription of course i can carry a much a half a page of christie in my head and at the same time i could sell out all that window twice over and not a penny wrong at the end. a to prescription i think i could make up the general run of em in my sleep almost. 
for reason of my own i be deeply interest in marconi experiment at their outset in england. and it be of a piece with mr. cashell s unvarying thoughtfulness that when his nephew the electrician appropriate the house for a long range installation he should a i have say invite me to see the result. 
the old lady go away with her medicine and mr. shaynor and i stamp on the tile floor behind the counter to keep ourselves warm. the shop by the light of the many electric look like a paris diamond mine for mr. cashell believe in all the ritual of his craft. three superb glass jar red green and blue of the sort that lead rosamund to part with her shoe blaze in the broad plate glass window and there be a confuse smell of orris kodak film vulcanite tooth powder sachet and almond cream in the air. mr. shaynor feed the dispensary stave and we suck cayenne pepper jujube and menthol lozenge. the brutal east wind have clear the street and the few passer by be muffle to their pucker eye. in the italian warehouse next door some gay feather bird and game hang upon hook sag to the wind across the leave edge of our window frame. 
they ought to take these poultry in all knock about like that say mr. shaynor. doesn t it make you feel fair perish. see that old hare. the wind s nearly blow the fur off him. 
i saw the belly fur of the dead beast blow apart in ridge and streak a the wind catch it show bluish skin underneath. bitter cold say mr. shaynor shudder. fancy go out on a night like this. oh here s young mr. cashell. 
the door of the inner office behind the dispensary open and an energetic spade beard man step forth rub his hand. 
i want a bite of tin foil shaynor he say. good even. my uncle tell me you might be come. this to me a i begin the first of a hundred question. 
i ve everything in order he reply. we re only wait until poole call u up. excuse me a minute. you can come in whenever you like but i d good be with the instrument. give me that tin foil. thank. 
while we be talk a girl evidently no customer have come into the shop and the face and bear of mr. shaynor change. she lean confidently across the counter. 
but i can t i hear him whisper uneasily the flush on his cheek be dull red and his eye shine like a drug moth s. i can t. i tell you i m alone in the place. 
no you aren t. who s that. let him look after it for half an hour. a brisk walk will do you good. ah come now john. 
but he isn t. 
i don t care. i want you to. we ll only go round by st. agnes. if you don t. 
he cross to where i stand in the shadow of the dispensary counter and begin some sort of break apology about a lady friend. 
yes she interrupt. you take the shop for half an hour to oblige me_ win t you. 
she have a singularly rich and promise voice that well match her outline. 
all right i say. i ll do it but you d good wrap yourself up mr. shaynor. 
oh a brisk walk ought to help me. we re only go round by the church. i hear him cough grievously a they go out together. 
i refill the stave and after reckless expenditure of mr. cashell s coal drive some warmth into the shop. i explore many of the glass knobbed drawer that line the wall taste some disconcert drug and by the aid of a few cardamom grind ginger chloric ether and dilute alcohol manufacture a new and wildish drink of which i bore a glassful to young mr. cashell busy in the back office. he laugh shortly when i tell him that mr. shaynor have step out but a frail coil of wire hold all his attention and he have no word for me bewilder among the battery and rod. the noise of the sea on the beach begin to make itself hear a the traffic in the street cease. then briefly but very lucidly he give me the name and us of the mechanism that crowd the table and the floor. 
when do you expect to get the message from poole. i demand sip my liquor out of a graduate glass. 
about midnight if everything be in order. we ve get our installation pole fix to the roof of the house. i shouldn t advise you to turn on a tap or anything tonight. we ve connect up with the plumb and all the water will be electrify. he repeat to me the history of the agitate lady at the hotel at the time of the first installation. 
but what be it. i ask. electricity be out of my beat altogether. 
ah if you know that you d know something nobody know. it s just it what we call electricity but the magic the manifestation the hertzian wave be all reveal by this. the coherer we call it. 
he pick up a glass tube not much thick than a thermometer in which almost touch be two tiny silver plug and between them an infinitesimal pinch of metallic dust. that s all he say proudly a though himself responsible for the wonder. that be the thing that will reveal to u the power whatever the power may be at work through space a long distance away. 
just then mr. shaynor return alone and stand cough his heart out on the mat. 
serf you right for be such a fool say young mr. cashell a annoy a myself at the interruption. never mind we ve all the night before u to see wonder. 
shaynor clutch the counter his handkerchief to his lip. when he bring it away i saw two bright red stain. 
i i ve get a bite of a rasp throat from smoke cigarette he pant. i think i ll try a cubeb. 
good take some of this. i ve be compound while you ve be away. i hand him the brew. 
twon t make me drink will it. i m almost a teetotaller. my word. that s grateful and comfort. 
he sit down the empty glass to cough afresh. 
brr. but it be cold out there. i shouldn t care to be lie in my grave a night like this. don t you ever have a sore throat from smoke. he pocket the handkerchief after a furtive peep. 
oh yes sometimes i reply wonder while i speak into what agony of terror i should fall if ever i saw those bright red danger signal under my nose. young mr. cashell among the battery cough slightly to show that he be quite ready to continue his scientific explanation but i be think still of the girl with the rich voice and the significantly cut mouth at whose command i have take charge of the shop. it flash across me that she distantly resemble the seductive shape on a gold frame toilet water advertisement whose charm be unholily heighten by the glare from the red bottle in the window. turn to make sure i saw mr. shaynor s eye bend in the same direction and by instinct recognise that the flamboyant thing be to him a shrine. what do you take for your cough. i ask. 
well i m the wrong side of the counter to believe much in patent medicine. but there be asthma cigarette and there be pastille. to tell you the truth if you don t object to the smell which be very like incense i believe though i m not a roman catholic blaudett s cathedral pastille relieve me a much a anything. 
let s try. i have never raid a chemist s shop before so i be thorough. we unearth the pastille brown gummy cone of benzoin and set them alight under the toilet water advertisement where they fume in thin blue spiral. 
of course say mr. shaynor to my question what one us in the shop for one s self come out of one s pocket. why stock take in our business be nearly the same a with jeweller and i can t say more than that. but one get them he point to the pastille box at trade price. evidently the cense of the gay seven tint wench with the teeth be an establish ritual which cost something. 
and when do we shut up shop. 
we stay like this all night. the gov old mr. cashell doesn t believe in lock and shutter a compare with electric light. besides it bring trade. i ll just sit here in the chair by the stave and write a letter if you don t mind. electricity isn t my prescription. 
the energetic young mr. cashell snort within and shaynor settle himself up in his chair over which he have throw a star red black and yellow austrian jute blanket rather like a table cover. i cast about amid patent medicine pamphlet for something to read but find little return to the manufacture of the new drink. the italian warehouse take down it game and go to bed. across the street blank shutter fling back the gaslight in cold smear. the dry pavement seem to rough up in goose flesh under the scour of the savage wind and we could hear long ere he pass the policeman flap his arm to keep himself warm. within the flavour of cardamom and chloric ether dispute those of the pastille and a score of drug and perfume and soap scent. our electric light set low down in the window before the tunbellied rosamund jar fling inward three monstrous daub of red blue and green that break into kaleidoscopic light on the facetted knob of the drug drawer the cut glass scent flagon and the bulb of the sparklet bottle. they flush the white tile floor in gorgeous patch. splash along the nickel silver counter rail and turn the polish mahogany counter panel to the liken of intricate grain marble slab of porphyry and malachite. mr. shaynor unlock a drawer and ere he begin to write take out a meagre bundle of letter. from my place by the stave i could see the scallop edge of the paper with a flare monogram in the corner and could even smell the reek of chypre. at each page he turn toward the toilet water lady of the advertisement and devour her with over luminous eye. he have draw the austrian blanket over his shoulder and among those war light he look more than ever the incarnation of a drug moth a tiger moth a i think. 
he put his letter into an envelope stamp it with stiff mechanical movement and drop it in the drawer. then i become aware of the silence of a great city asleep the silence that underlay the even voice of the breaker along the sea front a thick tingle quiet of warm life still down for it appoint time and unconsciously i move about the glitter shop a one move in a sick room. young mr. cashell be adjust some wire that crackle from time to time with the tense knuckle stretch sound of the electric spark. upstairs where a door shut and open swiftly i could hear his uncle cough abed. 
here i say when the drink be properly warm take some of this mr. shaynor. 
he jerk in his chair with a start and a wrench and hold out his hand for the glass. the mixture of a rich port wine colour froth at the top. 
it look he say suddenly it look those bubble like a string of pearl wink at you rather like the pearl round that young lady s neck. he turn again to the advertisement where the female in the dive colour corset have see fit to put on all her pearl before she clean her teeth. 
not bad be it. i say. 
eh. 
he roll his eye heavily full on me and a i star i behold all mean and consciousness die out of the swiftly dilate pupil. his figure lose it stark rigidity soften into the chair and chin on chest hand drop before him he rest open eye absolutely still. 
i m afraid i ve rather cook shaynor s goose i say bear the fresh drink to young mr. cashell. perhaps it be the chloric ether. 
oh he s all right. the spade beard man glance at him pityingly. consumptive go off in those sort of dos very often. it s exhaustion. i don t wonder. i dare say the liquor will do him good. it s grand stuff he finish his share appreciatively. well a i be say before he interrupt about this little coherer. the pinch of dust you see be nickel filing. the hertzian wave you see come out of space from the station that despatch em and all these little particle be attract together cohere we call it for just so long a the current pass through them. now it s important to remember that the current be an induce current. there be a good many kind of induction. 
yes but what be induction. 
that s rather hard to explain untechnically. but the long and the short of it be that when a current of electricity pass through a wire there s a lot of magnetism present round that wire. and if you put another wire parallel to and within what we call it magnetic field why then the second wire will also become charge with electricity. 
on it own account. 
on it own account. 
then let s see if i ve get it correctly. mile off at poole or wherever it be. 
it will be anywhere in ten year. 
you ve get a charge wire. 
charge with hertzian wave which vibrate say two hundred and thirty million time a second. mr. cashell snake his forefinger rapidly through the air. 
all right a charge wire at poole give out these wave into space. then this wire of yours stick out into space on the roof of the house in some mysterious way get charge with those wave from poole. 
or anywhere it only happen to be poole tonight. 
and those wave set the coherer at work just like an ordinary telegraph office ticker. 
no. that s where so many people make the mistake. the hertzian wave wouldn t be strong enough to work a great heavy morse instrument like ours. they can only just make that dust cohere and while it cohere. a little while for a dot and a long while for a dash. the current from this battery the home battery he lay his hand on the thing can get through to the morse print machine to record the dot or dash. let me make it clear. do you know anything about steam. 
very little. but go on. 
well the coherer be like a steam valve. any child can open a valve and start a steamer s engine because a turn of the hand let in the main steam doesn t it. now this home battery here ready to print be the main steam. the coherer be the valve always ready to be turn on. the hertzian wave be the child s hand that turn it. 
i see. that s marvellous. 
marvellous isn t it. and remember we re only at the begin. there s nothing we sha n t be able to do in ten year. i want to live my god how i want to live and see it develop. he look through the door at shaynor breathe lightly in his chair. poor beast. and he want to keep company with fanny brand. 
fanny who. i say for the name strike an obscurely familiar chord in my brain something connect with a stain handkerchief and the word arterial. 
fanny brand the girl you keep shop for. he laugh that s all i know about her and for the life of me i can t see what shaynor see in her or she in him. 
_can t you see what he see in her. i insist. 
oh yes if that s what you mean. she s a great big fat lump of a girl and so on. i suppose that s why he s so crazy after her. she isn t his sort. well it doesn t matter. my uncle say he s bind to die before the year s out. your drink s give him a good sleep at any rate. young mr. cashell could not catch mr. shaynor s face which be half turn to the advertisement. 
i stoke the stave anew for the room be grow cold and light another pastille. mr. shaynor in his chair never move look through and over me with eye a wide and lustreless a those of a dead hare. 
poole s late say young mr. cashell when i step back. i ll just send them a call. 
he press a key in the semi darkness and with a rend crackle there leap between two brass knob a spark stream of spark and spark again. 
grand isn t it. that s the power our unknown power kick and fight to be let loose say young mr. cashell. there she go kick kick kick into space. i never get over the strangeness of it when i work a send machine wave go into space you know. t. r. be our call. poole ought to answer with l. l. l. 
we wait two three five minute. in that silence of which the boom of the tide be an orderly part i catch the clear _kiss kiss kiss_ of the halliard on the roof a they be blow against the installation pole. 
poole be not ready. i ll stay here and call you when he be. 
i return to the shop and set down my glass on a marble slab with a careless clink. a i do so shaynor rise to his foot his eye fix once more on the advertisement where the young woman bath in the light from the red jar simper pinkly over her pearl. his lip move without cessation. i step near to listen. and throw and throw and throw he repeat his face all sharp with some inexplicable agony. 
i move forward astonish. but it be then he find word deliver roundly and clearly. these. 
and throw warm gules on madeleine s young breast. 
the trouble pass off his countenance and he return lightly to his place rub his hand. 
it have never occur to me though we have many time discuss read and prize competition a a diversion that mr. shaynor ever read keats or could quote him at all appositely. there be after all a certain stain glass effect of light on the high bosom of the highly polish picture which might by stretch of fancy suggest a a vile chromo recall some incomparable canvas the line he have speak. night my drink and solitude be evidently turn mr. shaynor into a poet. he sit down again and write swiftly on his villainous note paper his lip quiver. 
i shut the door into the inner office and move up behind him. he make no sign that he saw or hear. i look over his shoulder and read amid half form word sentence and wild scratch. 
very cold it be. very cold the hare the hare the hare the bird. 
he raise his head sharply and frown toward the blank shutter of the poulterer s shop where they jut out against our window. then one clear line come. 
the hare in spite of fur be very cold. 
the head move machine like turn right to the advertisement where the blaudett s cathedral pastille reek abominably. he grunt and go on. 
incense in a censer before her darling picture frame in gold maiden s picture angel s portrait. 
hsh. say mr. cashell guardedly from the inner office a though in the presence of spirit. there s something come through from somewhere. but it isn t poole. i hear the crackle of spark a he depress the key of the transmitter. in my own brain too something crackle or it might have be the hair on my head. then i hear my own voice in a harsh whisper. mr. cashell there be something come through here too. leave me alone till i tell you. 
but i think you d come to see this wonderful thing sir indignantly at the end. 
leave me alone till i tell you. be quiet. 
i watch i wait. under the blue vein hand the dry hand of the consumptive come away clear without erasure. 
and my weak spirit fail to think how the dead must freeze he shiver a he write. 
beneath the churchyard mould. 
then he stop lay the pen down and lean back. 
for an instant that be half an eternity the shop spin before me in a rainbow tint whirl in and through which my own soul most dispassionately consider my own soul a that fight with an over master fear. then i smelt the strong smell of cigarette from mr. shaynor s clothe and hear a though it have be the rend of trumpet the rattle of his breathe. i be still in my place of observation much a one would watch a rifle shoot at the butt half bend hand on my knee and head within a few inch of the black red and yellow blanket of his shoulder. i be whisper encouragement evidently to my other self sound sentence such a men pronounce in dream. 
if he ha read keats it prof nothing. if he hasn t like cause must beget like effect. there be no escape from this law. you ought to be grateful that you know st. agnes eve without the book. because give the circumstance such a fanny brand who be the key of the enigma and approximately represent the latitude and longitude of fanny brawne. allow also for the bright red colour of the arterial blood upon the handkerchief which be just what you be puzzle over in the shop just now. and count the effect of the professional environment here almost perfectly duplicate the result be logical and inevitable. a inevitable a induction. 
still the other half of my soul refuse to be comfort. it be cower in some minute and inadequate corner at an immense distance. 
hereafter i find myself one person again my hand still grip my knee and my eye glue on the page before mr. shaynor. a dreamer accept and explain the upheaval of landscape and the resurrection of the dead with excerpt from the even hymn or the multiplication table so i have accept the fact whatever they might be that i should witness and have devise a theory sane and plausible to my mind that explain them all. nay i be even in advance of my fact walk hurriedly before them assure that they would fit my theory. and all that i now recall of that epoch make theory be the lofty word. if he ha read keats it s the chloric ether. if he hasn t it s the identical bacillus or hertzian wave of tuberculosis plus fanny brand and the professional status which in conjunction with the main stream of subconscious think common to all mankind ha throw up temporarily an induce keats. 
mr. shaynor return to his work erase and rewrite a before with swiftness. two or three blank page he toss aside. then he write mutter. 
the little smoke of a candle that go out. 
no he mutter. little smoke little smoke little smoke. what else. he thrust his chin forward toward the advertisement whereunder the last of the blaudett s cathedral pastille fume in it holder. ah. then with relief. 
the little smoke that dy in moonlight cold. 
evidently he be snare by the rhyme of his first verse for he write and rewrite gold cold mould many time. again he seek inspiration from the advertisement and set down without erasure the line i have overhear. 
and throw warm gules on madeleine s young breast. 
a i remember the original it be fair a trite word instead of young and i find myself nod approval though i admit that the attempt to reproduce it little smoke in pallid moonlight die be a failure. 
follow without a break ten or fifteen line of bald prose the naked soul s confession of it physical yearn for it beloved unclean a we count uncleanliness. unwholesome but human exceedingly. the raw material so it seem to me in that hour and in that place whence keats weave the twenty sixth seventh and eighth stanza of his poem. shame i have none in oversee this revelation. and my fear have go with the smoke of the pastille. 
that s it i murmur. that s how it s block out. go on. ink it in man. ink it in. 
mr. shaynor return to break verse wherein loveliness be make to rhyme with a desire to look upon her empty dress. he pick up a fold of the gay soft blanket spread it over one hand caress it with infinite tenderness think mutter trace some snatch which i could not decipher shut his eye drowsily shake his head and drop the stuff. here i find myself at fault for i could not then see. a i do now. in what manner a red black and yellow austrian blanket colour his dream. 
in a few minute he lay aside his pen and chin on hand consider the shop with thoughtful and intelligent eye. he throw down the blanket rise pass along a line of drug drawer and read the name on the label aloud. return he take from his desk christie s new commercial plant and the old culpepper that i have give him open and lay them side by side with a clerky air all trace of passion go from his face read first in one and then in the other and pause with pen behind his ear. 
what wonder of heaven s come now. i think. 
manna manna manna he say at last under wrinkle brow. that s what i want. good. now then. now then. good. good. oh by god that s good. his voice rise and he speak rightly and fully without a falter. 
candy apple quince and plum and gourd and jelly smooth than the creamy curd and lucent syrup tinct with cinnamon manna and date in argosy transfer from fez. and spice dainty every one from silken samarcand to cedared lebanon. 
he repeat it once more use bland for smooth in the second line. then write it down without erasure but this time. my set eye miss no stroke of any word. he substitute soother for his atrocious second think so that it come away under his hand a it be write in the book a it be write in the book. 
a wind go shout down the street and on the heel of the wind follow a spurt and rattle of rain. 
after a smile pause and good right have he to smile he begin anew always toss the last sheet over his shoulder. 
the sharp rain fall on the window pane rattle sleet the wind blow sleet. 
then prose. it be very cold of morning when the wind bring rain and sleet with it. i hear the sleet on the window pane outside and think of you my darling. i be always think of you. i wish we could both run away like two lover into the storm and get that little cottage by the sea which we be always think about my own dear darling. we could sit and watch the sea beneath our window. it would be a fairyland all of our own a fairy sea a fairy sea. 
he stop raise his head and listen. the steady drone of the channel along the sea front that have bear u company so long leap up a note to the sudden full surge that signal the change from ebb to flood. it beat in like the change of step throughout an army this renew pulse of the sea and fill our ear till they accept it mark it no long. 
a fairyland for you and me across the foam beyond. a magic foam a perilous sea. 
he grunt again with effort and bite his underlip. my throat dry but i dare not gulp to moisten it l i should break the spell that be draw him near and near to the high water mark but two of the son of adam have reach. remember that in all the million permit there be no more than five five little line of which one can say. these be the pure magic. these be the clear vision. the rest be only poetry. and mr. shaynor be play hot and cold with two of them. 
i vow no unconscious think of mine should influence the blindfold soul and pin myself desperately to the other three repeat and re repeat. 
a savage spot a holy and enchant a e er beneath a wan moon be haunt by woman wail for her demon lover. 
but though i believe my brain thus occupy my every sense hang upon the write under the dry bony hand all brown finger with chemical and cigarette smoke. 
our window front on the dangerous foam. 
he write after long irresolute snatch. and then. 
our open casement face desolate sea forlorn forlorn. 
here again his face grow peak and anxious with that sense of loss i have first see when the power snatch him. but this time the agony be tenfold keen. a i watch it mount like mercury in the tube. it light his face from within till i think the visibly scourge soul must leap forth naked between his jaw unable to endure. a drop of sweat trickle from my forehead down my nose and splash on the back of my hand. 
our window face on the desolate sea and pearly foam of magic fairyland. 
not yet not yet he mutter wait a minute. please wait a minute. i shall get it then. 
our magic window front on the sea the dangerous foam of desolate sea. for aye. 
_ouh_ my god. 
from head to heel he shake shake from the marrow of his bone outwards then leap to his foot with raise arm and slide the chair screech across the tile floor where it strike the drawer behind and fell with a jar. mechanically i stoop to recover it. 
a i rise mr. shaynor be stretch and yawn at leisure. 
i ve have a bite of a doze he say. how do i come to knock the chair over. you look rather. 
the chair startle me i answer. it be so sudden in this quiet. 
young mr. cashell behind his shut door be offendedly silent. 
i suppose i must have be dream say mr. shaynor. 
i suppose you must i say. talk of dream i i notice you write before. 
he flush consciously. 
i mean to ask you if you ve ever read anything write by a man call keats. 
oh. i haven t much time to read poetry and i can t say that i remember the name exactly. be he a popular writer. 
middle. i think you might know him because he s the only poet who be ever a druggist. and he s rather what s call the lover s poet. 
indeed. i must dip into him. what do he write about. 
a lot of thing. here s a sample that may interest you. 
then and there carefully i repeat the verse he have twice speak and once write not ten minute ago. 
ah. anybody could see he be a druggist from that line about the tincture and syrup. it s a fine tribute to our profession. 
i don t know say young mr. cashell with icy politeness open the door one half inch if you still happen to be interest in our trifle experiment. but should such be the case. 
i draw him aside whisper shaynor seem go off into some sort of fit when i speak to you just now. i think even at the risk of be rude it wouldn t do to take you off your instrument just a the call be come through. don t you see. 
grant grant a soon a ask he say unbend. i do think it a shade odd at the time. so that be why he knock the chair down. 
i hope i haven t miss anything i say. i m afraid i can t say that but you re just in time for the end of a rather curious performance. you can come in too mr. shaynor. listen while i read it off. 
the morse instrument be tick furiously. mr. cashell interpret. _k. k. v. can make nothing of your signal. a pause. _m. m. v. m. m. v. signal unintelligible. purpose anchor sandown bay. examine instrument to morrow. do you know what that mean. it s a couple of men o war work marconi signal off the isle of wight. they be try to talk to each other. neither can read the other s message but all their message be be take in by our receiver here. they ve be go on for ever so long. i wish you could have hear it. 
how wonderful. i say. do you mean we re overhear portsmouth ship try to talk to each other that we re eavesdrop across half south england. 
just that. their transmitter be all right but their receiver be out of order so they only get a dot here and a dash there. nothing clear. 
why be that. 
god know and science will know to morrow. perhaps the induction be faulty. perhaps the receiver aren t tune to receive just the number of vibration per second that the transmitter send. only a word here and there. just enough to tantalise. 
again the morse spring to life. 
that s one of em complain now. listen. dishearten most dishearten. it s quite pathetic. have you ever see a spiritualistic seance. it remind me of that sometimes odds and end of message come out of nowhere a word here and there no good at all. 
but medium be all impostor say mr. shaynor in the doorway light an asthma cigarette. they only do it for the money they can make. i ve see em. 
here s poole at last clear a a bell. l. l. l. now we sha n t be long. mr. cashell rattle the key merrily. anything you d like to tell em. 
no i don t think so i say. i ll go home and get to bed. i m feel a little tire. 
the army of a dream. 
song of the old guard. 
and thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold of beat work shall the candlestick be make. his shaft and it branch his bowl his knops and his flower shall be the same. 
and there shall be a knop under two branch of the same and a knop under two branch of the same and a knop under two branch of the same accord to the six branch that proceed out of the candlestick. their knops and their branch shall be the same. exodus. 
know this my brother heaven be clear and all the cloud be go the proper sort shall flourish now good time be come on the evil that be threaten late to all of our degree hath pass in discord and debate and hey then up go we. 
a common people strive in vain to shame u unto toil but they be spend and we remain and we shall share the spoil accord to our several need a beauty shall decree a age ordain or birth concede and hey then up go we. 
and they that with accurse zeal our service would amend shall own the odds and come to heel ere bad befall their end for though no naked word be write yet plainly shall they see what pinneth order to their coat and hey then up go we. 
our doorway that in time of fear we open overwide shall softly close from year to year till all be purify. for though no flutter fan be hear nor chaff be see to flee the lord shall winnow the lord s prefer and hey then up go we. 
our altar which the heathen brake shall rankly smoke anew and anise mint and cummin take their dread and sovereign due whereby the button of our trade shall all restore be with curious work in gild and braid and hey then up go we. 
then come my brother and prepare the candlestick and bell the scarlet brass and badger s hair wherein our honour dwell and straitly fence and strictly keep the ark s integrity till armageddon break our sleep. and hey then up go we. 
the army of a dream. 
part i. 
i sit down in the club smoke room to fill a pipe. 
* * * * *. 
it be entirely natural that i should be talk to boy bayley. we have meet first twenty odd year ago at the indian mess of the tyneside tail twister. our last meet i remember have be at the mount nelson hotel which be by no mean india and there we have talk half the night. boy bayley have go up that week to the front where i think he stay a long long time. 
but now he have come back. 
be you still a tynesider. i ask. 
i command the imperial guard battalion of the old regiment my son he reply. 
guard which. they ve be fusilier since fontenoy. don t pull my leg boy. 
i say guard not guard s. the i. g. battalion of the tail twister. doe that make it any clear. 
not in the least. 
then come over to the mess and see for yourself. we aren t a step from barrack. keep on my right side. i m i m a bite deaf on the near. 
we leave the club together and cross the street to a vast four storied pile which more resemble a rowton lodge house than a barrack. i could see no sentry at the gate. 
there ain t any say the boy lightly. he lead me into a many table restaurant full of civilian and grey green uniform. at one end of the room on a slightly raise dais stand a big table. 
here we be. we usually lunch here and dine in mess by ourselves. these be our chap but what be i think of. you must know most of em. devine s my second in command now. there s old luttrell remember him at cherat. burgard verschoyle. you be at school with him. harrison pigeon and kyd. 
with the exception of this last i know them all but i could not remember that they have all be tynesiders. 
i ve never see this sort of place i say look round. half the men here be in plain clothe and what be those woman and child do. 
eat i hope boy bayley answer. our canteen would never pay if it wasn t for the line and militia trade. when they be first start people look on em rather a catsmeat shop. but we get a duchess or two to lunch in em and they ve be grossly fashionable since. 
so i see i answer. a woman of the type that shop at the store come up the room look about her. a man in the dull grey uniform of the corp rise up to meet her pilot her to a place between three other uniform and there begin a very merry little meal. 
i give it up i say. this be guilty splendour that i don t understand. 
quite simple say burgard across the table. the barrack supply breakfast dinner and tea on the army scale to the imperial guard. which we call i. g. when it s in barrack a well a to the line and militia. they can all invite their friend if they choose to pay for them. that s where we make our profit. look. 
near one of the door be four or five table crowd with workman in the raiment of their calling. they eat steadily but find time to jest with the uniform about them. and when one o clock clang from a big half build block of flat across the street file out. 
those devine explain be either our line or militiaman a such entitle to the regulation whack at regulation cost. it s cheap than they could buy it. an they meet their friend too. a man ll walk a mile in his dinner hour to mess with his own lot. 
wait a minute i plead. will you tell me what those plumber and plasterer and bricklayer that i saw go out just now have to do with what i be teach to call the line. 
tell him say the boy over his shoulder to burgard. he be busy talk with the large verschoyle my old schoolmate. 
the line come next to the guard. the linesman s generally a town bird who can t afford to be a volunteer. he ha to go into camp in an area for two month his first year six week his second and a month the third. he get about five bob a week the year round for that and for be on duty two day of the week and for be liable to be order out to help the guard in a row. he needn t live in barrack unless he want to and he and his family can fee at the regimental canteen at usual rate. the woman like it. 
all this i say politely but intensely be the rave of delirium. where may your precious recruit who needn t live in barrack learn his drill. 
at his precious school my child like the rest of u. the notion of allow a human be to reach his twentieth year before ask him to put his foot in the first position be rave lunacy if you like. boy bayley dive back into the conversation. 
very good i say meekly. i accept the virtuous plumber who put in two month of his valuable time at aldershot. 
aldershot. the table explode. i felt a little annoy. 
a camp in an area be not exactly aldershot say burgard. the line isn t exactly what you fancy. some of them even come to u. 
you recruit from em. 
i beg your pardon say devine with mock solemnity. the guard doesn t recruit. it select. 
it would i say with a spiers and pond restaurant. pretty girl to play with. and. 
a room apiece four bob a day and all find say verschoyle. don t forget that. 
of course. i say. it probably beat off recruit with a club. 
no with the ballot box say verschoyle laugh. at least in all r. c. company. 
i didn t know roman catholic be so particular i venture. 
they grin. r. c. company say the boy mean right of choice. when a company ha be very good and pious for a long time it may if the c. o. think fit choose it own men all same one piecee club. all our company be r. c. s and a the battalion be make up a few vacancy ere start once more on the wild and trackless heef into the area the linesman be here in force to day suck up to our non coms. 
would some one mind explain to me the mean of every other word you ve use i say. what s a trackless heef. what s an area. what s everything generally. i ask. 
oh heefs part of the british constitution say the boy. it begin long ago when they d first map out the big military manoeuvre ground we call em area for short where the i. g. spend two third of their time and the other regiment get their train. it be slang originally for beef on the hoof because in the military area two third of your meat ration at least be hand over to you on the hoof and you make your own arrangement. the word heef become a parable for camp in the military area and all it misery. there be two area in ireland one in wale for hill work a couple in scotland and a sort of parade grind in the lake district. but the real work area be in india africa and australia and so on. 
and what do you do there. 
we heef under service condition which be rather like hard work. we heef in an english area for about a year come into barrack for one month to make up wastage. then we may heef foreign for another year or eighteen month. then we do sea time in the war boat. 
_what t. i say. 
sea time bayley repeat. just like marine to learn about the big gun and how to embark and disembark quick. then we come back to our territorial headquarter for six month to educate the line and volunteer camp to go to hythe to keep abreast of any new idea and then we fill up vacancy. we call those six month school then we begin all over again thus. home heef foreign heef sea time school. heefing isn t precisely luxurious but it s on heef that we make our head money. 
or lose it say the sallow pigeon and all laugh a men will at regimental joke. 
the dive never let me forget that say boy bayley. it happen last march. we be out in the second northern area at the top end of scotland where a lot of those silly deer forest use to be. i d sooner heef in the middle of australia myself or athabasca with all respect to the dive he s a native of those part. we be camp somewhere near caithness and the armity. that s the combine navy and army board that run our show. send u about eight hundred raw remount to break in to keep u warm. 
why horse for a foot regiment. 
i. g. s don t foot it unless they re oblige to. no have gee gee how can move. i ll show you late. well a i be say we break those beast in on compress forage and small box spur and then we start across scotland to applecross to hand em over to a horse depot there. it be snow cruel and we didn t know the country overmuch. you remember the th the old east lancashire at mian mir. 
their guard battalion have be heefing round those part for six month. we think they d be snow up all quiet and comfy but burden their c. o. get wind of our come and send spy in to eschol. 
confound him say luttrell who be fat and well like. i entertain one of em in a red worst comforter under bean derig. he say he be a crofter. give him a drink too. 
i don t mind admit say the boy that what with the cold and the remount we be move rather base over apex. burden bottle u under sghurr mohr in a snowstorm. he stampede half the horse cut off a lot of u in a snow bank and generally rub our nose in the dirt. 
be he allow to do that. i say. 
there be no peace in a military area. if we d beat him off or get away without lose anyone we d have be entitle to a day s pay from every man engage against u. but we didn t. he cut off fifty of ours hold em a prisoner for the regulation three day and then send in his bill three day pay for each man take. fifty men at twelve bob a head plus five pound for the dive a a capture officer and kyd here his junior three make about forty quid to burden & co. they crow over u horrid. 
couldn t you have appeal to an umpire or or something. 
we could but we talk it over with the men and decide to pay and look happy. we be fairly have. the th know every foot of sghurr mohr. i spend three day huntin em in the snow but they go off on our remount about twenty mile that night. 
do you always do this sham fight business. i ask. 
once inside an area you must look after yourself. but i tell you that a fight which mean that every man jack of u may lose a week s pay isn t so damn sham after all. it keep the men nippy. still in the long run it s like whist on a p. & o. it come out fairly level if you play long enough. now and again though one get a present say when a line regiment s out on the heef and signify that it s ready to abide by the rule of the game. you mustn t take head money from a line regiment in an area unless it say that it ll play you. but after a week or two those clever linesman always think they see a chance of make a pot and send in their compliment to the near i. g. then the fun begin. we catch a line regiment single hand about two year ago in ireland catch it on the hop between a bog and a beach. it have just move in to join it brigade and we make a forty two mile march in fourteen hour and cut it off lock stock and barrel. it go to grind like a badger i will say those line regiment can dig but we get out privily by night and break up the only road it could expect to get it baggage and company gun along. then we blow up a bridge that some sapper have make for experimental purpose. they be rather stuffy about it. on it line of retreat while we lay up in the mountain and signal for the a. c. of those part. 
who s an a. c. i ask. 
the adjustment committee the umpire of the military area. they re a set of superannuate old aunt of colonel keep for the purpose but they occasionally combine to do justice. our a. c. come saw our disposition and say it be a sanguinary massacre for the line and that we be entitle to our full pound of flesh head money for one whole regiment with equipment four company gun and all kit. at line rate this work out a one fat cheque for two hundred and fifty. not bad. 
but we have to pay the sapper seventy four quid for blow their patent bridge to piece devine interpolate. that be a swindle. 
that s true the boy go on but the adjustment committee give our helpless victim a talk to that be worth another hundred to hear. 
but isn t there a lot of unfairness in this head money system. i ask. 
can t have everything perfect say the boy. head money be an attempt at payment by result and it give the men a direct interest in their job. three time out of five of course the a. c. will disallow both side claim but there s always the chance of bring off a coup. 
do all regiment do it. 
heavily. the line pay a bob per prisoner and the militia ninepence not to mention side bet which be what really keep the men keen. it isn t suppose to be do by the volunteer but they gamble bad than anyone. why the very kid do it when they go to first camp at aldershot or salisbury. 
head money s a national institution like bet say burgard. 
i should say it be say pigeon suddenly. i be rope in the other day a an adjustment committee by the kemptown board school. i be rid under the brighton racecourse and i hear the whistle goin for umpire the regulation two long and two short. i didn t take any notice till an infant about a yard high jump up from a furze patch and shout. guard. guard. come ere. i want you per_fessionally. alf say e ain t outflank. ain t e a liar. come an look ow i ve post my men. you bet i look. the young demon trot by my stirrup and show me his whole army. twenty of em. lay out under cover a nicely a you please round a cowhouse in a hollow. he keep on shout. i ve draw alf into there. be persition ain t tenable. say it ain t tenable guard. i ride round the position and alf with his army come out of his cowhouse an sit on the roof and protest like a like a militia colonel. but the fact be in favour of my friend and i umpire accord. well alf abide by my decision. i explain it to him at length and he solemnly pay up his head money farthing point if you please. 
do they pay you umpire s fee. say kyd. i umpire a whole afternoon once for a village school at home and they stand me a bottle of hot ginger beer. 
i compromise on a halfpenny a sticky one or i d have hurt their feeling say pigeon gravely. but i give em sixpence back. 
how be they manoeuvre and what with. i ask. 
oh by whistle and hand signal. they have the dummy board school gun and flag for position but they be rush their attack much too quick for that open country. i tell em so and they admit it. 
but who teach em. i say. 
they have learn in their school of course like the rest of u. they be all of em over ten. and squad drill begin when they re eight. they know their company drill a heap good than they know their king s english. 
how much drill do the boy put in. i ask. 
all boy begin physical drill to music in the board school when they re six. squad drill one hour a week when they re eight. company drill when they re ten for an hour and a half a week. between ten and twelve they get battalion drill of a sort. they take the rifle at twelve and record their first target score at thirteen. that s what the code lay down. but it s work very loosely so long a a boy come up to the standard of his age. 
in canada we don t need your physical drill. we re bear fit say pigeon and our ten year old could knock spot out of your twelve year old. 
i may a well explain say the boy that the dive be our swop officer. he s an untamed huskie from nootka sound when he s at home. an i. g. corp exchange one officer every two year with a canadian or australian or african guard corp. we ve have a year of our dive an we shall be sorry to lose him. he humble our insular pride. meantime morten our swop in canada keep the ferocious canuck humble. when pij. go we shall swop kyd who s next on the roster for a cornstalk or a maori. but about the education drill. a boy can t attend first camp a we call it till he be a train boy and hold his first musketry certificate. the education code say he must be fourteen and the boy usually go to first camp at about that age. of course they ve be to their little private camp and boy fresh air camp and public school picnic while they be at school but first camp be where the young draft all meet generally at aldershot in this part of the world. first camp last a week or ten day and the boy be look over for vaccination and work lightly in brigade with lot of blank cartridge. second camp that s for the fifteen to eighteen year old last ten day or a fortnight and that include a final medical examination. men don t like to be chuck out on medical certificate much nowadays. i assure you second camp at salisbury say be an experience for a young i. g. officer. we re tell off to em in rotation. a wilderness of monkey isn t in it. the kid be apt to think emselves soldier and we have to take the edge off em with lot of picquet work and night attack. 
and what happen after second camp. 
it s hard to explain. our system be so illogical. theoretically the boy needn t show up for the next three or four year after second camp. they be suppose to be make their way in life. actually the young doctor or lawyer or engineer join a volunteer battalion that stick to the minimum of camp ten day per annum. that give him a holiday in the open air and now that men have take to endow their volunteer drill hall with bath and library he find if he can t run to a club that his own drill hall be an efficient substitute. he meet men there who ll be useful to him late and he keep himself in touch with what s go on while he s study for his profession. the town bird such a the chemist s assistant clerk plumber mechanic electrician and so forth generally put in for their town volunteer corp a soon a they begin to walk out with the girl. they like takin their true love to our restaurant. look yonder. i follow his gaze and saw across the room a man and a maid at a far table forget in each other s eye the good food on their plate. 
so it be say i. go ahead. 
then too we have some town volunteer corp that lay themselves out to attract promise youth of nineteen or twenty and make much of em on condition that they join their line battalion and play for their county. under the new county qualification birth or three year residence that mean a great deal in league match and the same in county cricket. 
by jove that s a good notion i cry. who invent it. 
c. b. fry long ago. he say in his paper that county cricket and county volunteer ought to be on the same foot unpaid and genuine. no cricketer no corp. no corp no cricketer be his watchword. there be a row among the pro s at first but c. b. win and late the league have to come in. they say at first it would ruin the gate. but when county match begin to be pukka county plus inter regimental affair the gate treble and a two third of the gate go to the regiment supply the team some volunteer corp fairly wallow in cash. it s all unofficial of course but league corp a they call em can take their pick of the second camper. some corp ask ten guinea entrance fee and get it too from the young blood that want to shine in the arena. i tell you we cater for all taste. now a regard the line proper i believe the young artisan and mechanic put in for that before he marry. he like the two month heef in his first year and five bob a week be something to go on with between time. 
do they follow their trade while they re in the line. i demand. 
why not. how many well pay artisan work more than four day a week anyhow. remember a linesman hasn t to be drill in your sense of the word. he must have have at least eight year ground in that a well a two or three year in his volunteer battalion. he can sleep where he plea. he can t leave town limit without report himself of course but he can get leave if he want it. he s on duty two day in the week a a rule and he s liable to be invite out for garrison duty down the mediterranean but his benefit society will insure him against that. i ll tell you about that late. if it s a hard winter and trade s slack a lot of the bachelor be take into the i. g. barrack. while the i. g. be out on the heef. for theoretical instruction. oh i assure you the line hasn t half a bad time of it. 
amaze. i murmur. and what about the others. 
the volunteer. observe the beauty of our system. we re a free people. we get up and slay the man who say we aren t. but a a little detail we never mention if we don t volunteer in some corp or another a combatant if we re fit a non combatant if we ain t till we re thirty five we don t vote and we don t get poor relief and the woman don t love u. 
oh that s the compulsion of it. say i. 
bayley incline his head gravely. that sir be the compulsion. we vote the legal part of it ourselves in a fit of panic and we have not yet rescind our resolution. the woman attend to the unofficial penalty. but be free british citizen. 
_and snob put in pigeon. the point be well take pij we have supply ourselves with every sort and shape and make of volunteer corp that you can imagine and we ve mix the whole show up with our odd fellow and our i. o. g. t. s and our buffalo and our burke and our debretts not to mention league and athletic club till you can t tell t other from which. you remember the young pup who use to look on soldier a a favour do to his ungrateful country the gun poke ferret pettin land gentleman s offspring the suckin facey romford. well he generally join a foreign service corp when he leaf college. 
can volunteer go foreign then. 
can t they just if their c. o. or his wife ha influence. the armity will always send a well connect f. s. corp out to help a guard battalion in a small campaign. otherwise f. s. corp make their own arrangement about camp. you see the military area be always open. they can heef there. and gamble on head money. a long a their finance run to it. or they can apply to do sea time in the ship. it s a cheap way for a young man to see the world and if he s any good he can try to get into the guard late. 
the main point say pigeon be that f. s. corp be swagger the correct thing. it ud never do to be draw for the militia don t you know he drawl try to render the english voice. 
that s what happen to a chap who doesn t volunteer say bayley. well after the f. s. corp. we ve about forty of em. come our territorial volunteer battalion and a man who can t suit himself somewhere among em must be a shade difficult. we ve get those league corp i be talk about. and those studious corp that just scrape through their ten day camp. and we ve crack corp of highly pay mechanic who can afford a two month heef in an interest area every other year. and we ve senior and junior scientific corp of earnest boilermakers and fitter and engineer who read paper on high explosive and do their heefing in a wet picket boat mine droppin at the port. then we ve heavy artillery recruit from the big manufacture town and ship build yard and ferocious hard ridin yeomanry. they can ride now. genteel semi genteel and hooligan corp and so on and so forth till you come to the home defence establishment the young chap knock out under medical certificate at the second camp but good enough to sit behind hedge or clean up camp and the old be bird who ve serve their time but don t care to drop out of the fun of the yearly camp and the hall. they call emselves veteran and do fancy shoot at bisley but between you and me they re mostly fresh air benefit club. they contribute to the volunteer journal and tell the guard that it s no good. but i like em. i shall be one of em some day a copper nose be bird. so you see we re mix to a degree on the volunteer side. 
it sound that way i venture. 
you ve overdo it bayley say devine. you ve miss our one strong point. he turn to me and continue. it s embarkation. the volunteer may be a mix a the colonel say but they be train to go down to the sea in ship. you ought to see a big bank holiday roll out. we suspend most of the usual railway traffic and turn on the military time table say on friday at midnight. by a. m. the train be run from every big centre in england to the near port at two minute interval. a a rule the armity meet u at the other end with ship of sort fleet reserve or regular men of war or hulk anything you can stick a gang plank to. we pile the men on to the troop deck stack the rifle in the rack send down the sea kit steam about for a few hour and land em somewhere. it s a good notion because our army to be any use must be an army of embarkation. why last whit monday we have how many be down at the dock edge in the first eight hour. kyd you re the volunteer enthusiast last from school. 
in the first ten hour over a hundred and eighteen thousand say kyd across the table with thirty six thousand actually put in and take out of ship. in the whole thirty six hour we have close on ninety thousand men on the water and a hundred and thirty three thousand on the quay fall in with their sea kit. 
that must have be a sight i say. 
one didn t notice it much. it be scatter between chatham dover portsmouth plymouth bristol liverpool and so on merely to give the inland men a chance to get rid of their breakfast. we don t like to concentrate and try a big embarkation at any one point. it make the continent jumpy. otherwise say kyd i believe we could get two hundred thousand men with their kit away on one tide. 
what d you want with so many. i ask. 
_we don t want one of em. but the continent use to point out every time relation be strain that nothing would be easy than to raid england if they get command of the sea for a week. after a few year some genius discover that it cut both way an there be no reason why we who be suppose to command the sea and own a few ship should not organise our little raid in case of need. the notion catch on among the volunteer they be get rather sick of manoeuvre on dry land and since then we haven t hear so much about raid from the continent say bayley. 
it s the offensive defensive say verschoyle that they talk so much about. we learn it all from the continent bless em. they insist on it so. 
no we learn it from the fleet say devine. the mediterranean fleet land ten thousand marine and sailor with gun in twenty minute once at manoeuvre. that be long ago. i ve see the fleet reserve and a few paddle steamer hire for the day land twenty five thousand volunteer at bantry in four hour half the men sea sick too. you ve no notion what a difference that sort of manoeuvre make in the calculation of our friend on the mainland. the continent know what invasion mean. it s like deal with a man whose nerve ha be shake. it doesn t cost much after all and it make u good friend with the great european family. we re now a thick a thief. 
where doe the imperial guard come in in all this gorgeousness. i ask. you re unusual modest about yourselves. 
a a matter of fact we re suppose to go out and stay out. we re the permanently mobilise lot. i don t think there be more than eight i. g. battalion in england now. we re a hundred battalion all tell. mostly on the heef in india africa and so forth. 
a hundred thousand. isn t that small allowance. i suggest. 
you think so. one hundred thousand men_ without a single case of venereal and an average sick list of two per cent permanently on a war foot. well perhaps you re right but it s a useful little force to begin with while the others be get ready. there s the native indian army also which isn t a break reed and since no volunteer no vote be the rule throughout the empire you will find a few men in canada australia and elsewhere that be fairly hefty in their class. 
but a hundred thousand isn t enough for garrison duty i persist. 
a hundred thousand sound men not sick boy go quite a way say pigeon. 
we expect the line to garrison the mediterranean port and thereabouts say bayley. don t sneer at the mechanic. he s deuced good stuff. he isn t rudely order out because this ain t a military despotism and we have to consider people s feeling. the armity usually bracket three line regiment together and call for men for six month or a year for malta gib or elsewhere at a bob a day. three battalion will give you nearly a whole battalion of bachelor between em. you fill up deficiency with a call on the territorial volunteer battalion and away you go with what we call a port battalion. what s astonish in that. remember that in this country where fifty per cent of the able body male have get a pretty fair notion of soldier and which be more have all camp out in the open you wake up the spirit of adventure in the young. 
not much adventure at malta gib or cyprus i retort. don t they get sick of it. 
but you don t realise that we treat em rather differently from the soldier of the past. you ought to go and see a port battalion draw from a manufacture centre growin vine in cyprus in it shirt sleeve. and at gib and malta of course the battalion be work with the fleet half the time. 
it seem to me i say angrily you be knock esprit de corp on the head with all this army navy jumble. it s a bad a. 
i know what you re go to say. a bad a what kitchener use to do when he believe that a thousand detail pick up on the veldt be a good a a column of two regiment. in the old day when drill be a sort of holy sacred art learn in old age you d be quite right. but remember our chap be break to drill from childhood and the theory we work on be that a thousand train englishman ought to be about a good a another thousand train englishman. we ve enlarge our horizon that s all. some day the army and the navy will be interchangeable. 
you ve enlarge it enough to fall out of i think. now where in all this mess of compulsory volunteer. 
my dear boy there s no compulsion. you ve get to be drill when you re a child same a you ve get to learn to read and if you don t pretend to serve in some corp or other till you re thirty five or medically chuck you rank with lunatic woman and minor. that s fair enough. 
compulsory conscript i continue. where a i be go to say doe the militia come in. 
a i have say for the men who can t afford volunteer. the militia be recruit by ballot pretty comprehensively too. volunteer be exempt but most men not otherwise account for be bag by the militia. they have to put in a minimum three week camp every other year and they get fifteen bob a week and their keep when they re at it and some sort of a yearly fee i ve forget how much. tisn t a showy service but it s very useful. it keep the mass of the men between twenty five say and thirty five moderately fit and give the armity an excuse for have more equipment ready in case of emergency. 
i don t think you re quite fair on the militia drawl verschoyle. they re good than we give em credit for. don t you remember the middle moor colliery strike. 
tell me i say quickly. evidently the others know. 
we ell it be no end of a pitman s strike about eight year ago. there be twenty five thousand men involve militia of course. at the end of the first month october when thing be look rather blue one of those clever labour leader get hold of the militia act and discover that any militia regiment could by a two third vote go on heef in a military area in addition to it usual biennial camp. two and twenty battalion of geordie solemnly apply and they be turn loose into the irish and scotch area under an i. g. brigadier who have private instruction to knock clinker out of em. but the pitman be a strong and agile bird. he thrive on snowdrift and entrench and draggin gun through heather. he be be feed and clothe for nothing besides have a chance of make head money and his strike pay be go clear to his wife and family. you see. wily man. but wachtabittje. when that heef finish in december the strike be still on. then that same labour leader find out from the same act that if at any time more than thirty or forty men of a militia regiment wish to volunteer to do sea time and study big gun in the fleet they be in no wise to be discourage but be to be take on a opportunity offer and pay a bob a day. accordingly about january geordie begin volunteer for sea time seven and eight hundred men out of each regiment. anyhow it make up seventeen thousand men. it be a splendid chance and the armity jump at it. the home and channel fleet and the north sea and cruiser squadron be strengthen with lame duck from the fleet reserve and between em with a little stretch and push they accommodate all of that young division. 
yes but you ve forget how we lie to the continent about it. all europe want to know what the dooce we be at say boy bayley and the wretched cabinet have to stump the country in the depth of winter explain our new system of poor relief. i beg your pardon verschoyle. 
the armity improvise naval manoeuvre between gib and land s end with frequent coal and landing. end in a cruise round england that fairly paralyse the pitman. the first day out they want the fleet stop while they go ashore and kill their labour leader but they couldn t be oblige. then they want to mutiny over the coal it be too like their own job. oh they have a lordly timel they come back the combine fleet anchor off hull with a nautical hitch to their breech. they d have a free fight at gib with the port battalion there. they clear out the town of lagos. and they d fight a pitch battle with the dockyard mateys at devonport. so they d do emselves well but they didn t want any more military life for a bite. 
and the strike. 
that end all right enough when the strike money come to an end. the pit owner be furious. they say the armity have wilfully prolong the strike and ask question in the house. the armity say that they have take advantage of the crisis to put a six month polish on fifteen thousand fine young men and if the master care to come out on the same term they d be happy to do the same by them. 
and then. 
palaver do set say bayley. everybody laugh. 
i don t quite understand about this sea time business i say. be the fleet open to take any regiment aboard. 
rather. the i. g. must the line can the militia may and the volunteer do put in sea time. the coast volunteer begin it and the fashion be spread inland. under certain circumstance a verschoyle tell you a volunteer or militia regiment can vote whether it heefs wet or dry. if it vote wet and ha influence. like some f. s. corp. it can sneak into the channel or the home fleet and do a cruise round england or to madeira or the north sea. the regiment of course be distribute among the ship and the fleet dry nurse em. it rather break up shore discipline but it give the inland men a bite of experience and of course it give u a fairish supply of men behind the gun in event of any strain on the fleet. some coast corp make a specialty of it and compete for embark and disembark record. i believe some of the tyneside engineerin corp put ten per cent of their men through the fleet engine room. but there s no need to stay talk here all the afternoon. come and see the i. g. in his lair the miserable conscript drive up to the colour at the point of the bayonet. 
part ii. 
the great hall be empty apace a the clock strike two and we pass out through double door into a huge read and smoke room blue with tobacco and buzz with voice. 
we re quiet a a rule say the boy. but we re fill up vacancy to day. hence the anxious face of the line and militia. look. there be four table against the wall and at each stand a crowd of uniform. the centre of disturbance be noncommissioned officer who seat growl and write down name. 
come to my table say burgard. well purvis have you ear mark our little lot. 
i ve be tellin em for the last hour we ve only twenty three vacancy be the sergeant s answer. i ve take nearly fifty for trial and this be what s leave. burgard smile. 
i m very sorry he say to the crowd but c company s full. 
excuse me sir say a man but wouldn t sea time count in my favour. i ve put in three month with the fleet. small quick firers sir. company gun. any sort of light machinery. 
come away say a voice behind. they ve chuck the best farrier between hull and dewsbury. think they ll take you an your potty quick firers. 
the speaker turn on his heel and swear. 
oh damn the guard by all mean. say sergeant purvis collect his paper. d you suppose it s any pleasure to me to reject chap of your build and make. vote u a second guard battalion and we ll accommodate you. now you can come into school and watch trial if you like. 
most of the men accept his invitation but a few walk away angrily. i follow from the smoke room across a wide corridor into a rid school under whose roof the voice of the few hundred assemble wander in lose echo. 
i ll leave you if you don t mind say burgard. company officer aren t suppose to assist at these game. here matthew. he call to a private and put me in his charge. 
in the centre of the vast floor my astonish eye behold a group of strip men. the pink of their body startle the tan. 
these be our crowd say matthew. they ve be vet an we re put em through their pace. 
they don t look a bite like raw material i say. 
no we don t use either raw men or raw meat for that matter in the guard matthew reply. life s too short. 
purvis step forward and bark in the professional manner. it be physical drill of the most search check only when he lay his hand over some man s heart. 
six or seven i notice be send back at this stage of the game. then a cry go up from a group of private stand near the line of contort figure. white purvis white. number nine be spit white. 
i know it say purvis. don t you worry. 
unfair. murmur the man who understand quick firers. if i couldn t shape good than that i d hire myself out to wheel a perambulator. he s cook. 
nah say the intent matthew. he ll answer to a month s train like a horse. it s only suet. you ve be train for this haven t you. 
look at me say the man simply. 
yes. you re overtrained be matthew comment. the guard isn t a circus. 
gun. roar purvis a the men break off and pant. number off from the right. fourteen be one three be two eleven s three twenty and thirty nine be four and five and five be six. he be give them their number at the gun a they struggle into their uniform. in like manner he tell off three other guncrews and the remainder leave at the double to return through the further door with four light quick firers jerk at the end of man rope. 
knock down and assemble against time. purvis call. 
the audience close in a little a the crew fling themselves on the gun which melt wheel by wheel beneath their touch. 
i ve never see anything like this i whisper. 
huh. say matthew scornfully. they re always doin it in the line and militia drill hall. it s only circus work. 
the gun be assemble again and some one call the time. then follow ten minute of the quick fire and feed with dummy cartridge that be ever give man to behold. 
they look a if they might amount to something this draft say matthew softly. 
what might you teach em after this then. i ask. 
to be guard say matthew. 
spur cry purvis a the gun disappear through the door into the stable. each man pluck at his sleeve and draw up first one heel and then the other. 
what the deuce be they do. i ask. 
this say matthew. he put his hand to a ticket pocket inside his regulation cuff show me two very small black box spur. draw up a gaitered foot he snap them into the box in the heel and when i have inspect snap them out again. 
that s all the spur you really need he say. 
then horse be trot out into the school barebacked and the neophyte be tell to ride. 
evidently the beast know the game and enjoy it for they would not make it easy for the men. 
a heap of saddlery be throw in a corner and from this each man a he capture his mount make shift to draw proper equipment while the audience laugh deride or call the horse towards them. 
it be most literally wild horseplay and by the time it be finish the recruit and the company be weak with fatigue and laughter. 
that ll do say purvis while the men rock in their saddle. i don t see any particular odds between any of you. c company. doe anybody here know anything against any of these men. 
that s a bite of the regulation matthew whisper. just like forbiddin the banns in church. really it be all settle long ago when the name first come up. 
there be no answer. 
you ll take em a they stand. 
there be a grunt of assent. 
very good. there s forty men for twenty three billet. he turn to the sweat horseman. i must put you into the hat. 
with great ceremony and a shower of company joke that i do not follow an enormous ally sloper top hat be produce into which number and blank be drop and the whole be hand round to the rider by a private evidently the joker of c company. 
matthew give me to understand that each company own a cherish receptacle. sometimes not a respectable one. for the paper of the final draw. he be tell me how his company have once steal the sacred article use by d company for this purpose and of the riot that follow when through the west door of the school enter a fresh detachment of strip men and the arena be flood with another company. 
say matthew a we withdraw each company doe trial their own way. b company be all for teach men how to cook and camp. d company keep em to horse work mostly. we call d the circus rider and b the cook. they call u the gunner. 
an you ve reject me_ say the man who have do sea time push out before u. the army s goin to the dog. 
i stand in the corridor look for burgard. 
come up to my room and have a smoke say matthew private of the imperial guard. 
we climb two flight of stone stair ere we reach an immense land flank with number door. 
matthew press a spring latch and lead me into a little cabin like room. the cot be a stand bunk with drawer beneath. on the bed lay a brilliant blanket. by the bed head be an electric light and a shelf of book. a write table stand in the window and i drop into a low wicker chair. 
this be a cut above subaltern s quarter i say survey the photo the dhurri on the floor the rifle in it rack the field kit hang up behind the door and the knicknacks on the wall. 
the line bachelor use em while we re away. but they re nice to come back to after heef. matthew pass me his cigarette case. 
where have you heefed. i say. 
in scotland central australia and north eastern rhodesia and the north west indian front. 
what s your service. 
four year. i ll have to go in a year. i get in when i be twenty two by a fluke from the militia direct on trial. 
trial like those we just saw. 
not so severe. there be le competition then. i hop to get my stripe but there s no chance. 
why. 
i haven t the knack of handle men. purvis let me have a half company for a month in rhodesia over towards lake n garni. i couldn t work em properly. it s a gift. 
do colour sergeant handle half company with you. 
they can command em on the heef. we ve only four company officer burgard luttrell kyd and harrison. pigeon s our swop and he s in charge of the pony. burgard get his company on the heef you see burgard have be a lieutenant in the line but he come into the guard on trial like the men. he could command. they try him in india with a wing of the battalion for three month. he do well so he get his company. that s what make me hopeful. but it s a gift you see manage men and so i m only a senior private. they let ten per cent of u stay on for two year extra after our three be finish to polish the others. 
aren t you even a corporal. 
we haven t corporal or lance for that matter in the guard. a a senior private i d take twenty men into action. but one guard don t tell another how to clean himself. you ve learn that before you apply. come in. 
there be a knock at the door and burgard enter remove his cap. 
i think you d be here he say a matthew vacate the other chair and sit on the bed. well ha matthew tell you all about it. how do our trial go matthew. 
forty name in the hat sir at the finish. they ll make a fairish lot. their gun trick weren t bad. but d company ha take the best horseman a usual. 
oh i ll attend to that on heef. give me a man who can handle company gun and i ll engage to make him a horse master. d company will end by thinkin emselves captain pigeon s private cavalry some day. 
i have never hear a private and a captain talk after this fashion and my face must have betray my astonishment for burgard say. 
these be not our parade manner. in our room a we say in the guard all men be men. outside we be officer and men. 
i begin to see i stammer. matthew be tell me that sergeant handle half company and rise from the rank and i don t see that there be any lieutenant and your company appear to be two hundred and fifty strong. it s a shade confuse to the layman. 
burgard lean forward didactically. the regulation lay down that every man s capacity for command must be test to the uttermost. we construe that very literally when we re on the heef. f r instance any man can apply to take the command next above him and if a man s too shy to ask his company officer must see that he get his chance. a sergeant be give a wing of the battalion to play with for three week a month or six week accord to his capacity and turn adrift in an area to make his own arrangement. that s what area be for and to experiment in. a good gunner a private very often ha all four company gun to handle through a week s fight act for the time a the major. major of guard battalion. verschoyle s our major. be suppose to be responsible for the gun by the way. there s nothing to prevent any man who ha the gift work his way up to the experimental command of the battalion on heef. purvis my colour sergeant command the battalion for three month at the back of coolgardie an very well he do it. bayley verted to company officer for the time be an take harrison s company and harrison come over to me a my colour sergeant. d you see. well purvis be down for a commission when there s a vacancy. he s be thoroughly test and we all like him. two other sergeant have pass that three month trial in the same way. just a second mate go up for extra master s certificate. they have e. c. after their name in the army list. that show they re capable of take command in event of war. the result of our system be that you could knock out every single officer of a guard battalion early in the day and the wheel ud still go forward not merely round. we re allow to fill up half our commission list from the rank direct. now d you see why there s such a rush to get into a guard battalion. 
indeed i do. have you command the regiment experimentally. 
oh time and again burgard laugh. we ve all have our e. c. turn. 
doesn t the chop and change upset the men. 
it take something to upset the guard. besides they re all in the game together. they give each other a fair show you may be sure. 
that s true say matthew. when i go to n gami with my with the half company he sigh they help me all they know. but it s a gift handle men. i find that out. 
i know you do say burgard softly. but you find it out in time which be the great thing. you see he turn to me with our limit strength we can t afford to have a single man who isn t more than up to any duty in reason. don t you be lead away by what you saw at trial just now. the volunteer and the militia have all the monkey trick of the trade such a mount and dismount gun and make fancy score and do record march. but they need a lot of work up before they can pull their weight in the boat. 
there be a knock at the door. a note be hand in. burgard read it and smile. 
bayley want to know if you d care to come with u to the park and see the kid. it s only a saturday afternoon walk round before the taxpayer. very good. if you ll press the button we ll try to do the rest. 
he lead me by two flight of stair up an iron stairway that give on a platform not unlike a ship s bridge immediately above the barrel glass roof of the rid school. through a rib ventilator i could see b company far below watch some men who chase sheep. burgard unlock a glass front fire alarm arrangement flank with dial and speak tube and bid me press the centre button. 
next moment i should have fall through the rid school roof if he have not catch me. for the huge build below my foot thrill to the multiply purr of electric bell. the men in the school vanish like minnow before a shadow and above the stamp of boot foot on staircase i hear the neigh of many horse. 
what in the world have i do. i gasp. 
turn out the guard horse foot and gun. 
a telephone bell ring imperiously. burgard snatch up the receiver. 
yes sir. what_ sir. i never hear they say that he laugh but it would be just like em. in an hour and a half. yes sir. opposite the statue. yes sir. 
he turn to me with a wink a he hang up. 
bayley s play up for you. now you ll see some fun. 
who s go to catch it. i demand. 
only our local foreign service corp. it c. o. ha be boast that it s en tat de partir_ and bayley s go to take him at his word and have a kit inspection this afternoon in the park. i must tell their drill hall. look over yonder between that brewery chimney and the mansard roof. 
he readdressed himself to the telephone and i keep my eye on the build to the southward. a blue peter climb up to the top of the flagstaff that crown it and blow out in the summer breeze. a black storm cone follow. 
inspection for f. s. corp acknowledge sir say burgard down the telephone. now we d good go to the rid school. the battalion fall in there. i have to change but you re free of the corp. go anywhere. ask anything. in another ten minute we re off. 
i linger for a little look over the great city it huddle of house and the great fringe of the park all frame between the open window of this dial dot eyrie. 
when i descend the hall and corridor be a hush a they have be noisy and my foot echo down the broad tile staircase. on the third floor matthew gaitered and arm overtake me smile. 
i think you might want a guide say he. we ve five minute yet and pilot me to the sunsplashed gloom of the rid school. three company be in close order on the tan. they move out at a whistle and a i follow in their rear i be overtake by pigeon on a rough black mare. 
wait a bite he say till the horse be all out of stable and come with u. d company be the only one mount just now. we do it to amuse the taxpayer he explain above the noise of horse on the tan. 
where be the gun. i ask a the mare lipped my coat collar. 
go ahead long ago. they come out of their own door at the back of barrack. we don t haul gun through traffic more than we can help. if belinda breathe down your neck smack her. she ll be quiet in the street. she love lookin into the shop window. 
the mount company clatter through vault concrete corridor in the wake of the main body and file out into the crowd street. 
when i look at the townsfolk on the pavement or in the double deck tram i saw that the bulk of them salute not grudgingly or of necessity but in a light hearted even flippant fashion. 
those be line and militia men say pigeon. that old chap in the top hat by the lamp post be an ex guardee. that s why he s salute in slow time. no there s no regulation govern these thing but we ve all fall into the way of it somehow. steady mare. 
i don t know whether i care about this aggressive militarism i begin when the company halt and belinda almost knock me down. look forward i saw the badge cuff of a policeman upraise at a cross his back towards u. 
horrid aggressive ain t we. say pigeon with a chuckle when we move on again and overtake the main body. here i catch the strain of the band which pigeon tell me do not accompany the battalion on heef but live in barrack and make much money by play at party in town. 
if we want anything more than drum and fife on heef we sing say pigeon. singin help the wind. 
i rejoice to the marrow of my bone thus to be bear along on billow of surge music among magnificent men in sunlight through a crowd town whose people i could feel regard u with comradeship affection and more. 
by jove i say at last watch the eye about u these people be look u over a if we be horse. 
why not. they know the game. 
the eye on the pavement in the tram the cab at the upper window sweep our line back and forth with a weigh intensity of regard which at first seem altogether new to me till i recall just such eye a thousand of them at manoeuvre in the channel when one crowd battleship draw past it sister at biscuit toss range. then i star at the grind overbear by those consider eye. 
suddenly the music change to the wail of the dead march in saul and once more we be cross a large square the regiment halt. 
damn. say pigeon glance behind him at the mount company. i believe they save up their saturday corps on purpose. 
what be it. i ask. 
a dead volunteer. we must play him through. again i look forward and saw the top of a hearse follow by two mourn coach bore directly up the halt regiment which open out company by company to let it through. 
but they ve get the whole bless square to funeralise in. i exclaim. why don t they go round. 
not so. pigeon reply. in this city it s the volunteer s perquisite to be play through by any corp he happen to meet on his way to the cemetery. and they make the most of it. you ll see. 
i hear the order rest on your arm run before the poor little procession a the men open out. the driver pull the black flanders beast into a more than funeral crawl and in the first mourn coach i saw the tearful face of a fat woman. his mother doubtless. a handkerchief press to one eye but the other roll vigilantly alight with proper pride. last come a knot of uniform men private i take it of the dead one s corp. 
say a man in the crowd beside u to the girl on his arm there jenny. that s what i ll get if i ave the luck to meet em when my time come. 
you an your luck she snap. ow can you talk such silly nonsense. 
play through by the guard he repeat slowly. the undertaker oo could guarantee that_ mark you for all his customer well e d monopolise the trade be all i can say. see the horse passagin sideways. 
she do it a purpose say the woman with a sniff. 
an i only hope you ll follow her example. just a long a you think i ll keep too. 
we reclosed when the funeral have leave u twenty pace behind. a small boy stick his head out of a carriage and watch u jealously. 
amaze. amaze. i murmur. be it regulation. 
no. town custom. it vary a little in different city but the people value be play through more than most thing i imagine. duddell the big ipswich manufacturer he s a quaker try to bring in a bill to suppress it a unchristian. pigeon laugh. 
and. 
it cost him his seat next election. you see we re all in the game. 
we reach the park without further adventure and find the four company gun with their spike team and single driver wait for u. many people be gather here and we be halt so far a i could see that they might talk with the men in the rank. the officer break into group. 
why on earth didn t you come along with me. say boy bayley at my side. i be expect you. 
well i have a delicacy about brigade myself with a colonel at the head of his regiment so i stay with the rear company and the horse. it s all too wonderful for any word. what s go to happen next. 
i ve hand over to verschoyle who will amuse and edify the school child while i take you round our kindergarten. don t kill any one vee. be you goin to charge em. 
old verschoyle hitch his big shoulder and nod precisely a he use to do at school. he be a boy of few word grow into a kindly taciturn man. 
now. bayley slide his arm through mine and lead me across a rid road towards a stretch of rough common. singularly out of place in a park. perhaps three quarter of a mile long and half a wide. on the encircle rail lean an almost unbroken line of men and woman the woman outnumber the men. i saw the guard battalion move up the road flank the common and disappear behind the tree. 
a far a the eye could range through the mellow english haze the grind inside the railing be dot with boy in and out of uniform arm and unarm. i saw squad here half company there. then three company in an open space wheel with stately step. a knot of drum and fife near the railing unconcernedly slash their way across popular air. and a batch of gamin labour through some extend attack destine to be sweep aside by a corp cross the grind at the double. they break out of furze bush duck over hollow and bunker hold or fell away from hillock and rough sandbank till the eye weary of their busy leg. 
bayley take me through the railing and gravely return the salute of a freckle twelve year old near by. 
what s your corp. say the colonel of that imperial guard battalion to that child. 
eighth district board school fourth standard sir. we aren t out to day. then with a twinkle i go to first camp next year. 
what be those boy yonder that squad at the double. 
jewboys sir. jewish voluntary school sir. 
and that full company extend behind the three elm to the south west. 
private day school sir i think. judge distance sir. 
can you come with u. 
certainly sir. 
here s the raw material at the begin of the process say bayley to me. 
we stroll on towards the strain of a bicycle build for two breathe jerkily into a mouth organ by a slim maid of fourteen. some dozen infant with clench fist and earnest leg be swing through the extension movement which that tune call for. a stunt hawthorn overhang the little group and from a branch a dirty white handkerchief flap in the breeze. the girl blush scowl and wipe the mouth organ on her sleeve a we come up. 
we re all wait for our big bruvvers pip up one bold person in blue breech seven if he be a day. 
it keep em quiet sir the maiden lisp. the others be with the regiment. 
yeth and they ve all lot of blank for you_ say the gentleman in blue breech ferociously. 
oh artie. ush. the girl cry. 
but why have they lot of blank for u. bayley ask. blue breech stand firm. 
cause cause the guard s goin to fight the school this afternoon. but my big bruvver say they ll be dam well surprise. 
_artie. the girl leap towards him. you know your ma say i be to smack. 
don t. please don t say bayley pink with suppress mirth. it be all my fault. i must tell old verschoyle this. i ve surprise his plan out of the mouth of babe and suckling. 
what plan. 
old vee ha take the battalion up to the top of the common and he tell me he mean to charge down through the kid but they re on to him already. he ll be scupper. the guard will be scupper. 
here blue breech overcome by the reproof of his fellow begin to weep. 
i didn t tell he roar. my big bruvver he know when he saw them go up the road. 
never mind. never mind old man say bayley soothingly. i m not fight to day. it s all right. 
he rightened it yet further with sixpence and leave that band loudly at feud over the spoil. 
oh vee. vee the strategist he chuckle. we ll pull vee s leg to night. 
our freckle friend of the barrier double up behind u. 
so you know that my battalion be charge down the grind bayley demand. 
not for certain sir but we re preparin for the bad he answer with a cheerful grin. they allow the school a little blank ammunition after we ve pass the third standard. and we nearly always bring it on to the grind of saturday. 
the deuce you do. why. 
on account of these amateur volunteer corp sir. they re always experimentin upon u sir comin over from their grind an developin attack on our flank. oh it s chronic ere of a saturday sometimes unless you flag yourself. 
i follow his eye and saw white flag flutter before a drum and fife band and a knot of youth in sweater gather round the dummy breech of a four inch gun which they be feed at express rate. 
the attack don t interfere with you if you flag yourself sir the boy explain. that s a second camp team from the technical school load against time for a bet. 
we pick our way deviously through the busy group. apparently it be not etiquette to notice a guard officer and the youth at the twenty five pounder be far too busy to look up. i watch the cleanly finish hoist and shove home of the full weight shell from a safe distance when i become aware of a change among the scatter boy on the common who disappear among the hillock to an accompaniment of querulous whistle. a boy or two on bicycle dash from corp to corp and on their arrival each corp seem to fade away. 
the youth at load practice do not pause for the grow hush round them nor do the drum and fife band drop a single note. bayley explode afresh. the school be prepare for our attack by jove. i wonder who s directin em. do you know. 
the warrior of the eighth district look up shrewdly. 
i saw mr. cameron speak to mr. levitt just a the guard go up the road. e s our ead master mr. cameron but mr. levitt of the sixth district be actin a senior officer on the grind this saturday. most likely mr. levitt be commandin. 
how many corp be there here. i ask. 
oh bit of lot of em thirty or forty p r aps sir. but the whistle say they ve all get to rally on the board school. ark. there s the whistle for the private school. they ve be call up the grind at the double. 
stop. cry a beard man with a watch and the crew drop beside the breech wipe their brow and pant. 
hullo. there s some attack on the school say one. well marden you owe me three half crown. i ve beat your record. pay up. 
the boy beside u tap his foot fretfully a he eye his companion melt among the hillock but the gun team adjust their bet without once look up. 
the grind rise a little to a furze crown ridge in the centre so that i could not see the full length of it but i hear a faint bubble of blank in the distance. 
the saturday allowance murmur bayley. war s begin but it wouldn t be etiquette for u to interfere. what be you say my child. 
nothin sir only only i don t think the guard will be able to come through on so narrer a front sir. they ll all be jam up be ind the ridge if we_ ve get there in time. it s awful sticky for gun at the end of our grind sir. 
i m incline to think you re right moltke. the guard be hang up. distinctly so. old vee will have to cut his way through. what a pernicious amount of blank the kid seem to have. 
it be quite a respectable roar of battle that roll among the hillock for ten minute always out of our sight. then we hear the cease fire over the ridge. 
they ve send for the umpire the board school boy squeak dance on one foot. you ve be hang up sir. i i think the sand pit ud stop you. 
say one of the jerseyed hobbledehoy at the gun slip on his coat. well that s enough for this afternoon. i m off and move to the railing without even glance towards the fray. 
i anticipate the bad say bayley with gravity after a few minute. hullo. here come my disgrace corp. 
the guard be pour over the ridge a disorderly mob horse foot and gun mix while from every hollow of the grind about rise small boy cheer shrilly. the outcry be take up by the parent at the railing and spread to a complete circle of cheer handclappings and wave handkerchief. 
our eighth district private cast away restraint and openly caper. we get em. we get em. he squeal. 
the grey green flood pause a fraction of a minute and draw itself into shape come to rest before bayley. verschoyle salute. 
vee vee say bayley. give me back my legion. well i hope you re proud of yourself. 
the little beast be ready for u. deuced well post too verschoyle reply. i wish you d see that first attack on our flank. rather impressive. who warn em. 
i don t know. i get my information from a baby in blue plush breech. do they do well. 
very decently indeed. i ve compliment their c. o. and butter the whole boil. he lower his voice. a a matter o fact i halt five good minute to give em time to get into position. 
well now we can inspect our foreign service corp. we sha n t need the men for an hour vee. 
very good sir. colour sergeant. cry verschoyle raise his voice and the cry run from company to company. whereupon the officer leave their men people begin to climb over the railing and the regiment dissolve among the spectator and the school corp of the city. 
no sense keep men stand when you don t need em say bayley. besides the school learn more from our chap in an afternoon than they can pick up in a month s drill. look at those board schoolmaster captain buttonhole old purvis on the art of war. 
wonder what the even paper ll say about this say pigeon. 
you ll know in half an hour burgard laugh. what possess you to take your pony across the sand pit pij. 
pride. silly pride say the canadian. 
we cross the common to a very regulation paradeground overlook by a statue of our queen. here be carriage many and elegant fill with pretty woman and the railing be line with frockcoats and top hat. this be distinctly social i suggest to kyd. 
ra ather. our f. s. corp be nothing if not correct but bayley ll sweat em all the same. 
i saw six company draw up for inspection behind line of long sausage shape kit bag. a band welcome u with a life on the ocean wave. 
what cheek. mutter verschoyle. give em bean bayley. 
i intend to say the colonel grimly. will each of you fellow take a company please and inspect em faithfully. en tat de partir be their little boast remember. when you ve finish you can give em a little pillow fight. 
what doe the single cannon on those men s sleeve mean. i ask. 
that they re big gun men who ve do time with the fleet bayley return. any f. s. corp that ha over twenty per cent big gun men think itself entitle to play a life on the ocean wave when it s out of hear of the navy. 
what beautiful stuff they be. what s their regimental average. 
it ought to be five eight height thirty eight chest and twenty four year age. what be it. bayley ask of a private. 
five nine and half sir thirty nine twenty four and a half be the reply and he add insolently _en tat de partir. evidently that f. s. corp be on it mettle ready for the bad. 
what about their musketry average. i go on. 
not my pidgin say bayley. but they wouldn t be in the corp a day if they couldn t shoot. i know that much. now i m go to go through em for sock and slipper. 
the kit inspection exceed anything i have ever dream. i drift from company to company while the guard officer oppress them. twenty per cent at least of the kit be shovel out on the grass and go through in detail. 
what have they get jumper and duck for. i ask of harrison. 
for fleet work of course. en tat de partir with an f. s. corp mean they be amphibious. 
who give em their kit government. 
there be a government allowance but no c. o. stick to it. it s the same a paint and gold leaf in the navy. it come out of some one s pocket. how much doe your kit cost you. this to the private in front of u. 
about ten or fifteen quid every other year i suppose be the answer. 
very good. pack your bag quick. 
the man kneel and with supremely deft hand return all to the bag lash and tie it and fell back. 
arm say harrison. strip and show ammunition. 
the man divest himself of his roll greatcoat and haversack with one wriggle a it seem to me. a twist of a screw remove the side plate of the rifle breech. it be not a bolt action. he hand it to harrison with one hand and with the other loose his clip stud belt. 
what baby cartridge. i exclaim. no big than bulletted breech cap. 
they re the regulation. say harrison. no one ha complain of em yet. they expand a bite when they arrive. empty your bottle please and show your ration. 
the man pour out his water bottle and show the two inch emergency tin. 
harrison pass on to the next but i be fascinate by the way in which the man re establish himself amid his strap and buckle ask no help from either side. 
how long doe it take you to prepare for inspection. i ask him. 
well i get ready this afternoon in twelve minute he smile. i didn t see the storm cone till half past three. i be at the club. 
weren t a good many of you out of town. 
not this saturday. we know what be come. you see if we pull through the inspection we may move up one place on the roster for foreign service. you d good stand back. we re go to pillow fight. 
the company stoop to the stuff kit bag double with them variously pile them in square and mound pass them from shoulder to shoulder like bucket at a fire and repeat the evolution. 
what s the idea. i ask of verschoyle who arm fold behind him be control the display. many woman have descend from the carriage and be press in about u admiringly. 
for one thing it s a fair test of wind and muscle and for another it save time at the dock. we ll suppose this first company to be draw up on the dock head and those five others still in the troop train. how would you get their kit into the ship. 
fall em all in on the platform march em to the gangway i answer and trust to heaven and a fatigue party to gather the baggage and drunk in late. 
ye e and have half of it send by the wrong trooper. i know that game verschoyle drawl. we don t play it any more. look. 
he raise his voice and five company glisten a little and breathe hard form at right angle to the sixth each man embrace his sixty pound bag. 
pack away cry verschoyle and the great bean bag game. i can compare it to nothing else. begin. in five minute every bag be pass along either arm of the t and forward down the sixth company who pass stack and pile them in a great heap. these be follow by the rifle belt greatcoat and knapsack so that in another five minute the regiment stand a it be strip clean. 
of course on a trooper there d be a company below stack the kit away say verschoyle but that wasn t so bad. 
bad. i cry. it be miraculous. 
circus work all circus work. say pigeon. it win t prevent em bein sick a dog when the ship roll. the crowd round u applaud while the men look meekly down their self conscious nose. 
a little grey whisker man trot up to the boy. 
have we make good bayley. he say. be we en tat de partir. 
that s what i shall report say bayley smile. 
i think my bite o french ud draw you say the little man rub his hand. 
who be he. i whisper to pigeon. 
ramsay their c. o. an old guard captain. a keen little devil. they say he spend six hundred a year on the show. he use to be in the lincoln till he come into his property. 
take em home an make em drink i hear bayley say. i suppose you ll have a dinner to celebrate. but you may a well tell the officer of e company that i don t think much of them. i sha n t report it but their men be all over the shop. 
well they re young you see colonel ramsay begin. 
you re quite right. send em to me and i ll talk to em. youth be the time to learn. 
six hundred a year i repeat to pigeon. that must be an awful tax on a man. bad than in the old volunteer day. 
that s where you make your mistake say verschoyle. in the old day a man have to spend his money to coax his men to drill because they weren t the genuine article. you know what i mean. they make a favour of put in drill didn t they. and they be most of em the child we have to take over at second camp weren t they. well now that a c. o. be sure of his men_ now that he hasn t to waste himself in conciliate an bribin an beerin kids_ he doesn t care what he spend on his corp because every pound tell. do you understand. 
i see what you mean vee. have the male material guarantee. 
and train material at that pigeon put in. eight year in the school remember a well a. 
precisely. a man rejoice in work them up. that s a it should be i say. 
bayly s say the very same to those f. s. pup say verschoyle. 
the boy be behind u between two young f. s. officer a hand on the shoulder of each. 
yes that s all doocid interest he growl paternally. but you forget my son now that your men be bind to serve you re trebly bind to put a polish on em. you ve let your company simply go to seed. don t try and explain. i ve tell all those lie myself in my time. it s only idleness. i know. come and lunch with me to morrow and i ll give you a wrinkle or two in barrack. he turn to me. 
suppose we pick up vee s defeat legion and go home. you ll dine with u to night. good bye ramsay. yes you re en tat de partir_ right enough. you d good get lady gertrude to talk to the armity if you want the corp send foreign. i m no politician. 
we stroll away from the great white statue of the widow with sceptre orb and crown that look toward the city and regain the common where the guard battalion walk with the female of it specie and the child of all it relative. at sight of the officer the uniform begin to detach themselves and gather in company. a board school corp be move off the grind head by it drum and fife which it assist with song. a we draw near we catch the word for they be launch with intention. 
oo be it mash the country nurse. the guardsman. oo be it take the lydy s purse. the guardsman. call for a drink and a mild cigar batter a sovereign down on the bar collar the change and say ta ta. the guardsman. 
why that s one of old jemmy fawne s song. i haven t hear it in age i begin. 
little devil. say pigeon. speshul. extra speshul. sport edition. a newsboy cry. ere y be captain. defeat o the guard. 
i ll buy a copy say the boy a pigeon blush wrathfully. i must to see how the dive lose his mount company. he unfold the flap sheet and we crowd round it. 
_complete rout of the guard _ he read. _too narrow a front. that s one for you vee. attack anticipate by mr. levitt b. a. aha. the school stand fast. 
here s another version say kyd wave a tint sheet. _to your tent o israel. the hebrew school stop the mount troop. pij be you scupper by jewboys. 
_umpires decide all four gun lose _ bayley go on. by jove there ll have to be an inquiry into this regrettable incident vee. 
i ll never try to amuse the kid again say the bait verschoyle. child and newspaper be low thing. and i be hit on the nose by a wad too. they oughtn t to be allow blank ammunition. 
so we lean against the railing in the warm twilight haze while the battalion silently a a shadow form up behind u ready to be take over. the heat the hum of the great city a it might have be the hum of a camp army the creak of the belt and the well know face bend above them bring back to me the memory of another even year ago when verschoyle and i wait for news of gun miss in no sham fight. 
a regular sanna s post isn t it. i say at last. d you remember vee by the market square that night when the wagon go out. 
then it come upon me with no horror but a certain mild wonder that we have wait vee and i that night for the body of boy bayley. and that vee himself have die of typhoid in the spring of. the rustle of the paper continue but bayley shift slightly reveal to me the three day old wind on his leave side that have soak the grind about him. i saw pigeon fling up a helpless arm a to guard himself against a spatter of shrapnel and luttrell with a foolish tight lipped smile lurch over all in one jointless piece. only old vee s honest face hold steady for awhile against the darkness that have swallow up the battalion behind u. then his jaw drop and the face stiffen so that a fly make bold to explore the puff and scornful nostril. 
* * * * *. 
i wake brush a fly from my nose and saw the club waiter set out the even paper on the table. 
they. 
the return of the child. 
neither the harp nor the crown amuse nor the cherub dive wing race hold hand forlornly the child wander beneath the dome. pluck the radiant robe of the passer by and with pitiful face beg what prince and power refuse. ah please will you let u go home. 
over the jewel floor nigh weep run to them mary the mother kneel and caress and make promise with kiss and draw them along to the gateway yea the all iron unbribable door which peter must guard and none other. straightway she take the key from his keep and open and free them straightway. 
then to her son who have see and smile she say. on the night that i bore thee what didst thou care for a love beyond mine or a heaven that be not my arm. didst thou push from the nipple o child to hear the angel adore thee. when we two lay in the breath of the kine. and he say. thou hast do no harm. 
so through the void the child run homeward merrily hand in hand look neither to leave nor right where the breathless heaven stand still. and the guard of the void resheathed their sword for they hear the command. shall i that have suffer the child to come to me hold them against their will. 
they one view call me to another. one hill top to it fellow half across the county and since i could answer at no more trouble than the snap forward of a lever i let the country flow under my wheel. the orchid stud flat of the east give way to the thyme ilex and grey grass of the down. these again to the rich cornland and fig tree of the low coast where you carry the beat of the tide on your leave hand for fifteen level mile. and when at last i turn inland through a huddle of round hill and wood i have run myself clean out of my know mark. beyond that precise hamlet which stand godmother to the capital of the unite state i find hide village where bee the only thing awake boom in eighty foot linden that overhang grey norman church. miraculous brook dive under stone bridge build for heavy traffic than would ever vex them again. tithe barn large than their church and an old smithy that cry out aloud how it have once be a hall of the knight of the temple. gipsy i find on a common where the gorse bracken and heath fight it out together up a mile of roman road. and a little farther on i disturb a red fox roll dog fashion in the naked sunlight. 
a the wooded hill close about me i stand up in the car to take the bearing of that great down whose ring head be a landmark for fifty mile across the low country. i judge that the lie of the country would bring me across some westward run road that go to his foot but i do not allow for the confuse veil of the wood. a quick turn plunge me first into a green cut brimful of liquid sunshine next into a gloomy tunnel where last year s dead leaf whisper and scuffle about my tyre. the strong hazel stuff meet overhead have not be cut for a couple of generation at least nor have any axe help the moss canker oak and beech to spring above them. here the road change frankly into a carpetted ride on whose brown velvet spend primrose clump show like jade and a few sickly white stalk bluebell nod together. a the slope favour i shut off the power and slide over the whirl leaf expect every moment to meet a keeper. but i only hear a jay far off argue against the silence under the twilight of the tree. 
still the track descend. i be on the point of reverse and work my way back on the second speed ere i end in some swamp when i saw sunshine through the tangle ahead and lift the brake. 
it be down again at once. a the light beat across my face my fore wheel take the turf of a great still lawn from which spring horseman ten foot high with level lance monstrous peacock and sleek round head maid of honour blue black and glisten all of clip yew. across the lawn the marshal wood besiege it on three side stand an ancient house of lichened and weather wear stone with mullioned window and roof of rise red tile. it be flank by semi circular wall also rise red that close the lawn on the fourth side and at their foot a box hedge grow man high. there be dove on the roof about the slim brick chimney and i catch a glimpse of an octagonal dive house behind the screen wall. 
here then i stay. a horseman s green spear lay at my breast. hold by the exceed beauty of that jewel in that set. 
if i be not pack off for a trespasser or if this knight doe not ride a wallop at me think i shakespeare and queen elizabeth at least must come out of that half open garden door and ask me to tea. 
a child appear at an upper window and i think the little thing wave a friendly hand. but it be to call a companion for presently another bright head show. then i hear a laugh among the yew peacock and turn to make sure. till then i have be watch the house only. i saw the silver of a fountain behind a hedge throw up against the sun. the dove on the roof coo to the coo water. but between the two note i catch the utterly happy chuckle of a child absorb in some light mischief. 
the garden door heavy oak sink deep in the thickness of the wall open further. a woman in a big garden hat set her foot slowly on the time hollow stone step and a slowly walk across the turf. i be form some apology when she lift up her head and i saw that she be blind. 
i hear you she say. isn t that a motor car. 
i m afraid i ve make a mistake in my road. i should have turn off up above i never dream i begin. 
but i m very glad. fancy a motor car come into the garden. it will be such a treat she turn and make a though look about her. you you haven t see any one have you perhaps. 
no one to speak to but the child seem interest at a distance. 
which. 
i saw a couple up at the window just now and i think i hear a little chap in the ground. 
oh lucky you. she cry and her face brighten. i hear them of course but that s all. you ve see them and hear them. 
yes i answer. and if i know anything of child one of them s have a beautiful time by the fountain yonder. escape i should imagine. 
you re fond of child. 
i give her one or two reason why i do not altogether hate them. 
of course of course she say. then you understand. then you win t think it foolish if i ask you to take your car through the garden once or twice quite slowly. i m sure they d like to see it. they see so little poor thing. one try to make their life pleasant but she throw out her hand towards the wood. we re so out of the world here. 
that will be splendid i say. but i can t cut up your grass. 
she face to the right. wait a minute she say. we re at the south gate aren t we. behind those peacock there s a flag path. we call it the peacock s walk. you can t see it from here they tell me but if you squeeze along by the edge of the wood you can turn at the first peacock and get on to the flag. 
it be sacrilege to wake that dream house front with the clatter of machinery but i swing the car to clear the turf brush along the edge of the wood and turn in on the broad stone path where the fountain basin lay like one star sapphire. 
may i come too. she cry. no please don t help me. they ll like it good if they see me. 
she felt her way lightly to the front of the car and with one foot on the step she call. child oh child. look and see what s go to happen. 
the voice would have draw lose soul from the pit for the yearn that underlay it sweetness and i be not surprise to hear an answer shout behind the yew. it must have be the child by the fountain but he flee at our approach leave a little toy boat in the water. i saw the glint of his blue blouse among the still horseman. 
very disposedly we parade the length of the walk and at her request back again. this time the child have get the good of his panic but stand far off and doubt. 
the little fellow s watch u i say. i wonder if he d like a ride. 
they re very shy still. very shy. but oh lucky you to be able to see them. let s listen. 
i stop the machine at once and the humid stillness heavy with the scent of box cloak u deep. shear i could hear where some gardener be clip. a mumble of bee and break voice that might have be the dove. 
oh unkind. she say weariedly. 
perhaps they re only shy of the motor. the little maid at the window look tremendously interest. 
yes. she raise her head. it be wrong of me to say that. they be really fond of me. it s the only thing that make life worth live when they re fond of you isn t it. i daren t think what the place would be without them. by the way be it beautiful. 
i think it be the most beautiful place i have ever see. 
so they all tell me. i can feel it of course but that isn t quite the same thing. 
then have you never. i begin but stop abash. 
not since i can remember. it happen when i be only a few month old they tell me. and yet i must remember something else how could i dream about colour. i see light in my dream and colour but i never see them. i only hear them just a i do when i m awake. 
it s difficult to see face in dream. some people can but most of u haven t the gift i go on look up at the window where the child stand all but hide. 
i ve hear that too she say. and they tell me that one never see a dead person s face in a dream. be that true. 
i believe it be now i come to think of it. 
but how be it with yourself yourself. the blind eye turn towards me. 
i have never see the face of my dead in any dream i answer. 
then it must be a bad a be blind. 
the sun have dip behind the wood and the long shade be possess the insolent horseman one by one. i saw the light die from off the top of a glossy leave lance and all the brave hard green turn to soft black. the house accept another day at end a it have accept an hundred thousand go seem to settle deep into it rest among the shadow. 
have you ever want to. she say after the silence. 
very much sometimes i reply. the child have leave the window a the shadow close upon it. 
ah. so ve i but i don t suppose it s allow. where d you live. 
quite the other side of the county sixty mile and more and i must be go back. i ve come without my big lamp. 
but it s not dark yet. i can feel it. 
i m afraid it will be by the time i get home. could you lend me someone to set me on my road at first. i ve utterly lose myself. 
i ll send madden with you to the cross road. we be so out of the world i don t wonder you be lose. i ll guide you round to the front of the house. but you will go slowly win t you till you re out of the ground. it isn t foolish do you think. 
i promise you i ll go like this i say and let the car start herself down the flag path. 
we skirt the leave wing of the house whose elaborately cast lead gutter alone be worth a day s journey. pass under a great rise grow gate in the red wall and so round to the high front of the house which in beauty and stateliness a much excel the back a that all others i have see. 
be it so very beautiful. she say wistfully when she hear my rapture. and you like the lead figure too. there s the old azalea garden behind. they say that this place must have be make for child. will you help me out please. i should like to come with you a far a the cross road but i mustn t leave them. be that you madden. i want you to show this gentleman the way to the cross road. he ha lose his way but he ha see them. 
a butler appear noiselessly at the miracle of old oak that must be call the front door and slip aside to put on his hat. she stand look at me with open blue eye in which no sight lay and i saw for the first time that she be beautiful. 
remember she say quietly if you be fond of them you will come again and disappear within the house. 
the butler in the car say nothing till we be nearly at the lodge gate where catch a glimpse of a blue blouse in a shrubbery i swerve amply l the devil that lead little boy to play should drag me into child murder. 
excuse me he ask of a sudden but why do you do that sir. 
the child yonder. 
our young gentleman in blue. 
of course. 
he run about a good deal. do you see him by the fountain sir. 
oh yes several time. do we turn here. 
yes sir. and do you appen to see them upstairs too. 
at the upper window. yes. 
be that before the mistress come out to speak to you sir. 
a little before that. why d you want to know. 
he pause a little. only to make sure that that they have see the car sir because with child run about though i m sure you re drive particularly careful there might be an accident. that be all sir. here be the cross road. you can t miss your way from now on. thank you sir but that isn t our custom not with. 
i beg your pardon i say and thrust away the british silver. 
oh it s quite right with the rest of em a a rule. goodbye sir. 
he retire into the armour plat con tower of his caste and walk away. evidently a butler solicitous for the honour of his house and interest probably through a maid in the nursery. 
once beyond the signpost at the cross road i look back but the crumple hill interlace so jealously that i could not see where the house have lie. when i ask it name at a cottage along the road the fat woman who sell sweetmeat there give me to understand that people with motor car have small right to live much le to go about talk like carriage folk. they be not a pleasant mannered community. 
when i retrace my route on the map that even i be little wise. hawkin s old farm appear to be the survey title of the place and the old county gazetteer generally so ample do not allude to it. the big house of those part be hodnington hall georgian with early victorian embellishment a an atrocious steel engrave attest. i carry my difficulty to a neighbour a deep root tree of that soil and he give me a name of a family which convey no mean. 
a month or so late i go again or it may have be that my car take the road of her own volition. she over run the fruitless down thread every turn of the maze of lane below the hill draw through the high wall wood impenetrable in their full leaf come out at the cross road where the butler have leave me and a little further on develop an internal trouble which force me to turn her in on a grass way waste that cut into a summer silent hazel wood. so far a i could make sure by the sun and a six inch ordnance map this should be the road flank of that wood which i have first explore from the height above. i make a mighty serious business of my repair and a glitter shop of my repair kit spanner pump and the like which i spread out orderly upon a rug. it be a trap to catch all childhood for on such a day i argue the child would not be far off. when i pause in my work i listen but the wood be so full of the noise of summer. though the bird have mat. that i could not at first distinguish these from the tread of small cautious foot steal across the dead leaf. i ring my bell in an allure manner but the foot flee and i repent for to a child a sudden noise be very real terror. i must have be at work half an hour when i hear in the wood the voice of the blind woman cry. child oh child where be you. and the stillness make slow to close on the perfection of that cry. she come towards me half feel her way between the tree bole and though a child it seem cling to her skirt it swerve into the leafage like a rabbit a she draw near. 
be that you. she say from the other side of the county. 
yes it s me from the other side of the county. 
then why didn t you come through the upper wood. they be there just now. 
they be here a few minute ago. i expect they know my car have break down and come to see the fun. 
nothing serious i hope. how do car break down. 
in fifty different way. only mine ha choose the fifty first. 
she laugh merrily at the tiny joke coo with delicious laughter and push her hat back. 
let me hear she say. 
wait a moment i cry and i ll get you a cushion. 
she set her foot on the rug all cover with spare part and stoop above it eagerly. what delightful thing. the hand through which she saw glance in the chequer sunlight. a box here another box. why you ve arrange them like play shop. 
i confess now that i put it out to attract them. i don t need half those thing really. 
how nice of you. i hear your bell in the upper wood. you say they be here before that. 
i m sure of it. why be they so shy. that little fellow in blue who be with you just now ought to have get over his fright. he s be watch me like a red indian. 
it must have be your bell she say. i hear one of them go past me in trouble when i be come down. they re shy so shy even with me. she turn her face over her shoulder and cry again. child. oh child. look and see. 
they must have go off together on their own affair. 
i suggest for there be a murmur behind u of lower voice break by the sudden squeak giggle of childhood. i return to my tinker and she lean forward her chin on her hand listen interestedly. 
how many be they. i say at last. the work be finish but i saw no reason to go. 
her forehead pucker a little in think. i don t quite know she say simply. sometimes more sometimes le. they come and stay with me because i love them you see. 
that must be very jolly i say replace a drawer and a i speak i hear the inanity of my answer. 
you you aren t laugh at me she cry. i i haven t any of my own. i never marry. people laugh at me sometimes about them because because. 
because they re savage i return. it s nothing to fret for. that sort laugh at everything that isn t in their own fat life. 
i don t know. how should i. i only don t like be laugh at about them. it hurt. and when one can t see. i don t want to seem silly her chin quiver like a child s a she speak but we blindies have only one skin i think. everything outside hit straight at our soul. it s different with you. you ve such good defence in your eye look out before anyone can really pain you in your soul. people forget that with u. 
i be silent review that inexhaustible matter the more than inherit. since it be also carefully teach. brutality of the christian people beside which the mere heathendom of the west coast nigger be clean and restrain. it lead me a long distance into myself. 
don t do that. she say of a sudden put her hand before her eye. 
what. 
she make a gesture with her hand. 
that. it s it s all purple and black. don t. that colour hurt. 
but how in the world do you know about colour. i exclaim for here be a revelation indeed. 
colour a colour. she ask. 
no. those colour which you saw just now. 
you know a well a i do she laugh else you wouldn t have ask that question. they aren t in the world at all. they re in you when you go so angry. 
d you mean a dull purplish patch like port wine mix with ink. i say. 
i ve never see ink or port wine but the colour aren t mix. they be separate all separate. 
do you mean black streak and jag across the purple. 
she nod. yes if they be like this and zigzag her finger again but it s more red than purple that bad colour. 
and what be the colour at the top of the whatever you see. 
slowly she lean forward and trace on the rug the figure of the egg itself. 
i see them so she say point with a grass stem white green yellow red purple and when people be angry or bad black across the red a you be just now. 
who tell you anything about it in the begin. i demand. 
about the colour. no one. i use to ask what colour be when i be little in table cover and curtain and carpet you see because some colour hurt me and some make me happy. people tell me. and when i get old that be how i saw people. again she trace the outline of the egg which it be give to very few of u to see. 
all by yourself. i repeat. 
all by myself. there wasn t anyone else. i only find out afterwards that other people do not see the colour. 
she lean against the tree hole plait and unplaiting chance pluck grass stem. the child in the wood have draw near. i could see them with the tail of my eye frolic like squirrel. 
now i be sure you will never laugh at me she go on after a long silence. nor at them. 
goodness. no. i cry jolt out of my train of think. a man who laugh at a child unless the child be laugh too be a heathen. 
i didn t mean that of course. you d never laugh at child but i think i use to think that perhaps you might laugh about them. so now i beg your pardon. what be you go to laugh at. 
i have make no sound but she know. 
at the notion of your beg my pardon. if you have do your duty a a pillar of the state and a land proprietress you ought to have summon me for trespass when i barge through your wood the other day. it be disgraceful of me inexcusable. 
she look at me her head against the tree trunk long and steadfastly this woman who could see the naked soul. 
how curious she half whisper. how very curious. 
why what have i do. 
you don t understand. and yet you understand about the colour. don t you understand. 
she speak with a passion that nothing have justify and i face her bewilderedly a she rise. the child have gather themselves in a roundel behind a bramble bush. one sleek head bend over something small and the set of the little shoulder tell me that finger be on lip. they too have some child s tremendous secret. i alone be hopelessly astray there in the broad sunlight. 
no i say and shake my head a though the dead eye could note. whatever it be i don t understand yet. perhaps i shall late if you ll let me come again. 
you will come again she answer. you will surely come again and walk in the wood. 
perhaps the child will know me well enough by that time to let me play with them a a favour. you know what child be like. 
it isn t a matter of favour but of right she reply and while i wonder what she mean a dishevel woman plunge round the bend of the road loose haired purple almost low with agony a she run. it be my rude fat friend of the sweetmeat shop. the blind woman hear and step forward. what be it mr. madehurst. she ask. 
the woman fling her apron over her head and literally grovel in the dust cry that her grandchild be sick to death that the local doctor be away fish that jenny the mother be at her wit end and so forth with repetition and bellowing. 
where s the next near doctor. i ask between paroxysm. 
madden will tell you. go round to the house and take him with you. i ll attend to this. be quick. she half support the fat woman into the shade. in two minute i be blow all the horn of jericho under the front of the house beautiful and madden in the pantry rise to the crisis like a butler and a man. 
a quarter of an hour at illegal speed catch u a doctor five mile away. within the half hour we have decant him much interest in motor at the door of the sweetmeat shop and draw up the road to await the verdict. 
useful thing car say madden all man and no butler. if i d have one when mine take sick she wouldn t have die. 
how be it. i ask. 
croup. mr. madden be away. no one know what to do. i drive eight mile in a tax cart for the doctor. she be choke when we come back. this car d ha save her. she d have be close on ten now. 
i m sorry i say. i think you be rather fond of child from what you tell me go to the cross road the other day. 
have you see em again sir this mornin. 
yes but they re well break to car. i couldn t get any of them within twenty yard of it. 
he look at me carefully a a scout consider a strange not a a menial should lift his eye to his divinely appoint superior. 
i wonder why he say just above the breath that he draw. 
we wait on. a light wind from the sea wander up and down the long line of the wood and the wayside grass whiten already with summer dust rise and bow in sallow wave. 
a woman wipe the suds off her arm come out of the cottage next the sweetmeat shop. 
i ve be n listenin in de back yard she say cheerily. he say arthur s unaccountable bad. do ye hear him shruck just now. unaccountable bad. i reckon t will come jenny s turn to walk in de wood nex week along mr. madden. 
excuse me sir but your lap robe be slip say madden deferentially. the woman start drop a curtsey and hurry away. 
what doe she mean by walk in the wood. i ask. 
it must be some say they use hereabouts. i m from norfolk myself say madden. they re an independent lot in this county. she take you for a chauffeur sir. 
i saw the doctor come out of the cottage follow by a draggle tail wench who cling to his arm a though he could make treaty for her with death. dat sort she wail dey re just a much to u dat ha em a if dey be lawful bear. just a much just a much. an god he d be just a please if you save un doctor. don t take it from me. miss florence will tell ye de very same. don t leave im doctor. 
i know. i know say the man but he ll be quiet for a while now. we ll get the nurse and the medicine a fast a we can. he signal me to come forward with the car and i strive not to be privy to what follow. but i saw the girl s face blotch and freeze with grief and i felt the hand without a ring clutch at my knee when we move away. 
the doctor be a man of some humour for i remember he claim my car under the oath of sculapius and use it and me without mercy. first we convoy mr. madehurst and the blind woman to wait by the sick bed till the nurse should come. next we invade a neat county town for prescription. the doctor say the trouble be cerebro spinal meningitis. and when the county institute bank and flank with scar market cattle report itself out of nurse for the moment we literally fling ourselves loose upon the county. we confer with the owner of great house magnate at the end of overarch avenue whose big bone womenfolk stride away from their tea table to listen to the imperious doctor. at last a white haired lady sit under a cedar of lebanon and surround by a court of magnificent borzoi all hostile to motor give the doctor who receive them a from a princess write order which we bore many mile at top speed through a park to a french nunnery where we take over in exchange a pallid face and tremble sister. she kneel at the bottom of the tonneau tell her bead without pause till by short cut of the doctor s invention we have her to the sweetmeat shop once more. it be a long afternoon crowd with mad episode that rise and dissolve like the dust of our wheel. cross section of remote and incomprehensible life through which we race at right angle. and i go home in the dusk weary out to dream of the clash horn of cattle. round eye nun walk in a garden of graf. pleasant tea party beneath shade tree. the carbolic scent grey paint corridor of the county institute. the step of shy child in the wood and the hand that cling to my knee a the motor begin to move. 
* * * * *. 
i have intend to return in a day or two but it please fate to hold me from that side of the county on many pretext till the elder and the wild rise have fruit. there come at last a brilliant day sweep clear from the south west that bring the hill within hand s reach a day of unstable air and high filmy cloud. through no merit of my own i be free and set the car for the third time on that know road. a i reach the crest of the down i felt the soft air change saw it glaze under the sun. and look down at the sea in that instant behold the blue of the channel turn through polish silver and dull steel to dingy pewter. a lade collier hug the coast steer outward for deep water and across copper colour haze i saw sail rise one by one on the anchor fish fleet. in a deep dene behind me an eddy of sudden wind drum through shelter oak and spin aloft the first day sample of autumn leaf. when i reach the beach road the sea fog fume over the brickfield and the tide be tell all the groin of the gale beyond ushant. in le than an hour summer england vanish in chill grey. we be again the shut island of the north all the ship of the world bellow at our perilous gate. and between their outcry run the pip of bewilder gull. my cap drip moisture the fold of the rug hold it in pool or sluice it away in runnel and the salt rime stick to my lip. 
inland the smell of autumn load the thicken fog among the tree and the drip become a continuous shower. yet the late flower mallow of the wayside scabious of the field and dahlia of the garden show gay in the mist and beyond the sea s breath there be little sign of decay in the leaf. yet in the village the house door be all open and bare legged bare head child sit at ease on the damp doorstep to shout pip pip at the strange. 
i make bold to call at the sweetmeat shop where mr. madehurst meet me with a fat woman s hospitable tear. jenny s child she say have die two day after the nun have come. it be she felt best out of the way even though insurance office for reason which she do not pretend to follow would not willingly insure such stray life. not but what jenny didn t tend to arthur a though he d come all proper at de end of de first year like jenny herself. thank to miss florence the child have be bury with a pomp which in mr. madehurst s opinion more than cover the small irregularity of it birth. she describe the coffin within and without the glass hearse and the evergreen line of the grave. 
but how s the mother. i ask. 
jenny. oh she ll get over it. i ve felt dat way with one or two o my own. she ll get over. she s walkin in de wood now. 
in this weather. 
mr. madehurst look at me with narrow eye across the counter. 
i dunno but it open de eart like. yes it open de eart. dat s where losin and bearin come so alike in de long run we do say. 
now the wisdom of the old wife be great than that of all the father and this last oracle send me think so extendedly a i go up the road that i nearly run over a woman and a child at the wooded corner by the lodge gate of the house beautiful. 
awful weather. i cry a i slow dead for the turn. 
not so bad she answer placidly out of the fog. mine s use to un. you ll find yours indoors i reckon. 
indoors madden receive me with professional courtesy and kind inquiry for the health of the motor which he would put under cover. 
i wait in a still nut brown hall pleasant with late flower and warm with a delicious wood fire a place of good influence and great peace. men and woman may sometimes after great effort achieve a creditable lie. but the house which be their temple cannot say anything save the truth of those who have live in it. a child s cart and a doll lay on the black and white floor where a rug have be kick back. i felt that the child have only just hurry away to hide themselves most like in the many turn of the great adzed staircase that climb statelily out of the hall or to crouch at gaze behind the lion and rose of the carven gallery above. then i hear her voice above me sing a the blind sing from the soul. 
in the pleasant orchard close. 
and all my early summer come back at the call. 
in the pleasant orchard close god bless all our gain say we but may god bless all our loss good suit with our degree. 
she drop the mar fifth line and repeat. 
good suit with our degree. 
i saw her lean over the gallery her link hand white a pearl against the oak. 
be that you from the other side of the county. she call. 
yes me from the other side of the county i answer laugh. 
what a long time before you have to come here again. she run down the stair one hand lightly touch the broad rail. it s two month and four day. summer s go. 
i mean to come before but fate prevent. 
i know it. please do something to that fire. they win t let me play with it but i can feel it s behave badly. hit it. 
i look on either side of the deep fireplace and find but a half char hedge stake with which i punch a black log into flame. 
it never go out day or night she say a though explain. in case any one cony in with cold toe you see. 
it s even lovely inside than it be out i murmur. the red light pour itself along the age polish dusky panel till the tudor rose and lion of the gallery take colour and motion. an old eagle top convex mirror gather the picture into it mysterious heart distort afresh the distort shadow and curve the gallery line into the curve of a ship. the day be shut down in half a gale a the fog turn to stringy scud. through the uncurtained mullion of the broad window i could see valiant horseman of the lawn rear and recover against the wind that taunt them with legion of dead leaf. yes it must be beautiful she say. would you like to go over it. there s still light enough upstairs. 
i follow her up the unflinching wagon wide staircase to the gallery whence open the thin flute elizabethan door. 
feel how they put the latch low down for the sake of the child. she swing a light door inward. 
by the way where be they. i ask. i haven t even hear them to day. 
she do not answer at once. then i can only hear them she reply softly. this be one of their room everything ready you see. 
she point into a heavily timbered room. there be little low gate table and child s chair. a doll s house it hook front half open face a great dapple rock horse from whose pad saddle it be but a child s scramble to the broad window seat overlook the lawn. a toy gun lay in a corner beside a gild wooden cannon. 
surely they ve only just go i whisper. in the fail light a door creak cautiously. i hear the rustle of a frock and the patter of foot quick foot through a room beyond. 
i hear that she cry triumphantly. do you. child o child where be you. 
the voice fill the wall that hold it lovingly to the last perfect note but there come no answer shout such a i have hear in the garden. we hurry on from room to oak floor room. up a step here down three step there. among a maze of passage. always mock by our quarry. one might a well have try to work an unstopped warren with a single ferret. there be bolt hole innumerable recess in wall embrasure of deep slitten window now darken whence they could start up behind u. and abandon fireplace six foot deep in the masonry a well a the tangle of communicate door. above all they have the twilight for their helper in our game. i have catch one or two joyous chuckle of evasion and once or twice have see the silhouette of a child s frock against some darken window at the end of a passage. but we return empty hand to the gallery just a a middle age woman be set a lamp in it niche. 
no i haven t see her either this even miss florence i hear her say but that turpin he say he want to see you about his shed. 
oh mr. turpin must want to see me very badly. tell him to come to the hall mr. madden. 
i look down into the hall whose only light be the dull fire and deep in the shadow i saw them at last. they must have slip down while we be in the passage and now think themselves perfectly hide behind an old gild leather screen. by child s law my fruitless chase be a good a an introduction but since i have take so much trouble i resolve to force them to come forward late by the simple trick which child detest of pretend not to notice them. they lay close in a little huddle no more than shadow except when a quick flame betray an outline. 
and now we ll have some tea she say. i believe i ought to have offer it you at first but one doesn t arrive at manner somehow when one life alone and be consider h m peculiar. then with very pretty scorn would you like a lamp to see to eat by. the firelight s much pleasant i think. we descend into that delicious gloom and madden bring tea. 
i take my chair in the direction of the screen ready to surprise or be surprise a the game should go and at her permission since a hearth be always sacred bend forward to play with the fire. 
where do you get these beautiful short faggot from. i ask idly. why they be tally. 
of course she say. a i can t read or write i m drive back on the early english tally for my account. give me one and i ll tell you what it mean. 
i pass her an unburned hazel tally about a foot long and she run her thumb down the nick. 
this be the milk record for the home farm for the month of april last year in gallon say she. i don t know what i should have do without tally. an old fore of mine teach me the system. it s out of date now for every one else. but my tenant respect it. one of them s come now to see me. oh it doesn t matter. he ha no business here out of office hour. he s a greedy ignorant man very greedy or he wouldn t come here after dark. 
have you much land then. 
only a couple of hundred acre in hand thank goodness. the other six hundred be nearly all let to folk who know my folk before me but this turpin be quite a new man and a highway robber. 
but be you sure i sha n t be. 
certainly not. you have the right. he hasn t any child. 
ah the child. i say and slide my low chair back till it nearly touch the screen that hide them. i wonder whether they ll come out for me. 
there be a murmur of voice madden s and a deep note at the low dark side door and a ginger head canvas gaitered giant of the unmistakable tenant farmer type stumble or be push in. 
come to the fire mr. turpin she say. 
if if you please miss i ll i ll be quite a well by the door. he cling to the latch a he speak like a frighten child. of a sudden i realise that he be in the grip of some almost overpower fear. 
well. 
about that new shed for the young stock that be all. these first autumn storm settin in. but i ll come again miss. his teeth do not chatter much more than the door latch. 
i think not she answer levelly. the new shed m m. what do my agent write you on the th. 
i fancy p rap that if i come to see you ma man to man like miss. but. 
his eye roll into every corner of the room wide with horror. he half open the door through which he have enter but i notice it shut again from without and firmly. 
he write what i tell him she go on. you be overstock already. dunnett s farm never carry more than fifty bullock even in mr. wright s time. and he use cake. you ve sixty seven and you don t cake. you ve break the lease in that respect. you re drag the heart out of the farm. 
i m i m get some mineral superphosphates next week. i ve a good a order a truck load already. i ll go down to the station to morrow about em. then i can come and see you man to man like miss in the daylight. that gentleman s not go away be he. he almost shriek. 
i have only slide the chair a little further back reach behind me to tap on the leather of the screen but he jump like a rat. 
no. please attend to me mr. turpin. she turn in her chair and face him with his back to the door. it be an old and sordid little piece of scheme that she force from him his plea for the new cowshed at his landlady s expense that he might with the cover manure pay his next year s rent out of the valuation after a she make clear he have bleed the enrich pasture to the bone. i could not but admire the intensity of his greed when i saw him out face for it sake whatever terror it be that run wet on his forehead. 
i cease to tap the leather be indeed calculate the cost of the shed when i felt my relax hand take and turn softly between the soft hand of a child. so at last i have triumph. in a moment i would turn and acquaint myself with those quick foot wanderer. 
the little brush kiss fell in the centre of my palm a a gift on which the finger be once expect to close. a the all faithful half reproachful signal of a wait child not use to neglect even when grow up be busy a fragment of the mute code devise very long ago. 
then i know. and it be a though i have know from the first day when i look across the lawn at the high window. 
i hear the door shut. the woman turn to me in silence and i felt that she know. 
what time pass after this i cannot say. i be rouse by the fall of a log and mechanically rise to put it back. then i return to my place in the chair very close to the screen. 
now you understand she whisper across the pack shadow. 
yes i understand now. thank you. 
i i only hear them. she bow her head in her hand. i have no right you know no other right. i have neither bear nor lose neither bear nor lose. 
be very glad then say i for my soul be tear open within me. 
forgive me. 
she be still and i go back to my sorrow and my joy. 
it be because i love them so she say at last brokenly. _that be why it be even from the first even before i know that they they be all i should ever have. and i love them so. 
she stretch out her arm to the shadow and the shadow within the shadow. 
they come because i love them because i need them. i i must have make them come. be that wrong think you. 
no no. 
i i grant you that the toy and and all that sort of thing be nonsense but but i use to so hate empty room myself when i be little. she point to the gallery. and the passage all empty. and how could i ever bear the garden door shut. suppose. 
don t. for pity s sake don t. i cry. the twilight have bring a cold rain with gusty squall that pluck at the lead window. 
and the same thing with keep the fire in all night. i don t think it so foolish do you. 
i look at the broad brick hearth saw through tear i believe that there be no unpassable iron on or near it and bow my head. 
i do all that and lot of other thing just to make believe. then they come. i hear them but i didn t know that they be not mine by right till mr. madden tell me. 
the butler s wife. what. 
one of them i hear she saw. and know. hers. not for me. i didn t know at first. perhaps i be jealous. afterwards i begin to understand that it be only because i love them not because. oh you must bear or lose she say piteously. there be no other way and yet they love me. they must. don t they. 
there be no sound in the room except the lap voice of the fire but we two listen intently and she at least take comfort from what she hear. she recover herself and half rise. i sit still in my chair by the screen. 
don t think me a wretch to whine about myself like this but but i m all in the dark you know and you can see. 
in truth i could see and my vision confirm me in my resolve though that be like the very part of spirit and flesh. yet a little long i would stay since it be the last time. 
you think it be wrong then. she cry sharply though i have say nothing. 
not for you. a thousand time no. for you it be right. i be grateful to you beyond word. for me it would be wrong. for me only. 
why. she say but pass her hand before her face a she have do at our second meet in the wood. oh i see she go on simply a a child. for you it would be wrong. then with a little indrawn laugh and d you remember i call you lucky once at first. you who must never come here again. 
she leave me to sit a little long by the screen and i hear the sound of her foot die out along the gallery above. 
mr. bathurst. 
from lyden s irenius. 
act iii. sc. ii. 
gow. have it be your prince instead of a groom catch in this noose there s not an astrologer of the city. 
prince. sack. sack. we be a city yesterday. 
gow. so be it but i be not governor. not an astrologer but would ha swear he d foresee it at the last versary of venus when vulcan catch her with mar in the house of stink capricorn. but since ti jack of the straw that hang the forgetful star have it not on their tablet. 
prince. another life. be there any leave to die. how do the poor fool come by it. 
gow. simpliciter thus. she that damn him to death know not that she do it or would have die ere she have do it. for she love him. he that hang him doe so in obedience to the duke and ask no more than where be the rope. the duke very exactly he hath tell u work god s will in which holy employ he s not to be question. we have then leave upon this finger only jack whose soul now pluck the leave sleeve of destiny in hell to overtake why she clap him up like a fly on a sunny wall. whuff. soh. 
prince. your cloak ferdinand. i ll sleep now. 
ferdinand. sleep then. he too love his life. 
gow. he be bear of woman. but at the end throw life from him like your prince for a little sleep. have i any look of a king. say he clank his chain to be so bait on all side by fortune that i must e en die now to live with myself one day long. i leave him rail at fortune and woman s love. 
ferdinand. ah woman s love. 
aside. who know not fortune glut on easy throne steal from feast a rare to coneycatch privily in the hedgerow for a clown with that same cruel lustful hand and eye those nail and wedge that one hammer and lead and the very gerb of long store lightning loose yesterday gainst some king. 
mr. bathurst the day that i choose to visit h. m. s. peridot in simon s bay be the day that the admiral have choose to send her up the coast. she be just steam out to sea a my train come in and since the rest of the fleet be either coal or busy at the rifle range a thousand foot up the hill i find myself strand lunchless on the sea front with no hope of return to cape town before five p. m. at this crisis i have the luck to come across my friend inspector hooper cape government railway in command of an engine and a brake van chalk for repair. 
if you get something to eat he say i ll run you down to glengariff side till the good come along. it s cool there than here you see. 
i get food and drink from the greek who sell all thing at a price and the engine trot u a couple of mile up the line to a bay of drift sand and a plank platform half bury in sand not a hundred yard from the edge of the surf. mould dune white than any snow roll far inland up a brown and purple valley of splinter rock and dry scrub. a crowd of malay haul at a net beside two blue and green boat on the beach. a picnic party dance and shout barefoot where a tiny river trickle across the flat and a circle of dry hill whose foot be set in sand of silver lock u in against a seven colour sea. at either horn of the bay the railway line cut just above high water mark run round a shoulder of pile rock and disappear. 
you see there s always a breeze here say hooper open the door a the engine leave u in the side on the sand and the strong south easter buffet under elsie s peak dust sand into our tickey beer. presently he sit down to a file full of spike document. he have return from a long trip up country where he have be report on damage roll stock a far away a rhodesia. the weight of the bland wind on my eyelid. the song of it under the car roof and high up among the rock. the drift of fine grain chase each other musically ashore. the tramp of the surf. the voice of the picnicker. the rustle of hooper s file and the presence of the assure sun join with the beer to cast me into magical slumber. the hill of false bay be just dissolve into those of fairyland when i hear footstep on the sand outside and the clink of our coupling. 
stop that. snap hooper without raise his head from his work. it s those dirty little malay boy you see. they re always play with the truck. 
don t be hard on em. the railway s a general refuge in africa i reply. 
ti up country at any rate. that remind me he felt in his waistcoat pocket i ve get a curiosity for you from wankies beyond buluwayo. it s more of a souvenir perhaps than. 
the old hotel s inhabit cry a voice. white men from the language. marine to the front. come on pritch. here s your belmont. wha i i. 
the last word drag like a rope a mr. pyecroft run round to the open door and stand look up into my face. behind him an enormous sergeant of marine trail a stalk of dry seaweed and dust the sand nervously from his finger. 
what be you do here. i ask. i think the hierophant be down the coast. 
we come in last tuesday from tristan d acunha for overhaul and we shall be in dockyard ands for two month with boiler seating. 
come and sit down hooper put away the file. 
this be mr. hooper of the railway i exclaim a pyecroft turn to haul up the black moustached sergeant. 
this be sergeant pritchard of the agaric_ an old shipmate say he. we be strollin on the beach. the monster blush and nod. he fill up one side of the van when he sit down. 
and this be my friend mr. pyecroft i add to hooper already busy with the extra beer which my prophetic soul have buy from the greek. 
_moi aussi_ quoth pyecroft and draw out beneath his coat a label quart bottle. 
why it s bass cry hooper. 
it be pritchard say pyecroft. they can t resist him. 
that s not so say pritchard mildly. 
not verbatim per aps but the look in the eye come to the same thing. 
where be it. i demand. 
just on beyond here at kalk bay. she be slappin a rug in a back verandah. pritch hadn t more than bring his battery to bear before she step indoors an send it flyin over the wall. 
pyecroft pat the warm bottle. 
it be all a mistake say pritchard. i shouldn t wonder if she mistake me for maclean. we re about of a size. 
i have hear householder of muizenburg st. jam s and kalk bay complain of the difficulty of keep beer or good servant at the seaside and i begin to see the reason. none the le it be excellent bass and i too drink to the health of that large mind maid. 
it s the uniform that fetch em an they fetch it say pyecroft. my simple navy blue be respectable but not fascinatin. now pritch in be number one rig be always purr mary on the terrace ex officio a you might say. 
she take me for maclean i tell you pritchard insist. why why to listen to him you wouldn t think that only yesterday. 
pritch say pyecroft be warn in time. if we begin tellin what we know about each other we ll be turn out of the pub. not to mention aggravate desertion on several occasion. 
never anything more than absence without leaf i defy you to prove it say the sergeant hotly. an if it come to that how about vancouver in. 
how about it. who pull bow in the gig go ashore. who tell boy niven. 
surely you be court martialled for that. i say. the story of boy niven who lure seven or eight able body seaman and marine into the wood of british columbia use to be a legend of the fleet. 
yes we be court martialled to right say pritchard but we should have be try for murder if boy niven adn t be unusually tough. he tell u he have an uncle oo d give u land to farm. e say he be bear at the back o vancouver island and all the time the beggar be a balmy barnado orphan. 
_but we believe him say pyecroft. i do you do paterson do an oo be the marine that marry the cocoanut woman afterwards him with the mouth. 
oh jones spit kid jones. i aven t think of im in year say pritchard. yes spit kid believe it an george anstey and moon. we be very young an very curious. 
_but lovin an trustful to a degree say pyecroft. 
remember when e tell u to walk in single file for fear o bear. remember pye when e opped about in that bog full o fern an sniff an say e could smell the smoke of be uncle s farm. an all the time it be a dirty little out lyin uninhabited island. we walk round it in a day an come back to our boat lyin on the beach. a whole day boy niven keep u walkin in circle lookin for be uncle s farm. he say his uncle be compel by the law of the land to give u a farm. 
don t get hot pritch. we believe say pyecroft. 
he d be readin book. he only do it to get a run ashore an have himself talk of. a day an a night eight of u followin boy niven round an uninhabited island in the vancouver archipelago. then the picket come for u an a nice pack o idiot we look. 
what do you get for it. hooper ask. 
heavy thunder with continuous lightning for two hour. thereafter sleet squall a confuse sea and cold unfriendly weather till conclusion o cruise say pyecroft. it be only what we expect but what we felt an i assure you mr. hooper even a sailor man ha a heart to break be bein tell that we able seaman an promisin marine ad mislead boy niven. yes we poor back to the lander be suppose to ave mislead him. he round on u o course an get off easy. 
excep for what we give him in the steerin flat when we come out o cell. eard anything of im lately pye. 
signal boatswain in the channel fleet i believe mr. l. l. niven be. 
an anstey die o fever in benin pritchard muse. what come to moon. spit kid we know about. 
moon moon. now where do i last. oh yes when i be in the palladium. i meet quigley at buncrana station. he tell me moon ad run when the astrild sloop be cruise among the south sea three year back. he always show sign o bein a mormonastic beggar. yes he slip off quietly an they adn t time to chase im round the island even if the navigatin officer ad be equal to the job. 
wasn t he. say hooper. 
not so. accordin to quigley the astrild spend half her commission rompin up the beach like a she turtle an the other half hatch turtle egg on the top o numerous reef. when she be dock at sydney her copper look like aunt maria s wash on the line an her midship frame be spring. the commander swear the dockyard ad do it haulin the pore thing on to the slip. they do do strange thing at sea mr. hooper. 
ah. i m not a tax payer say hooper and open a fresh bottle. the sergeant seem to be one who have a difficulty in drop subject. 
how it all come back don t it. he say. why moon must ave ad sixteen year service before he run. 
it take em at all age. look at you know say pyecroft. 
who. i ask. 
a service man within eighteen month of his pension be the party you re thinkin of say pritchard. a warrant oose name begin with a v. isn t it. 
but in a way o puttin it we can t say that he actually do desert pyecroft suggest. 
oh no say pritchard. it be only permanent absence up country without leaf. that be all. 
up country. say hooper. do they circulate his description. 
what for. say pritchard most impolitely. 
because deserter be like column in the war. they don t move away from the line you see. i ve know a chap catch at salisbury that way tryin to get to nyassa. they tell me but o course i don t know that they don t ask question on the nyassa lake flotilla up there. i ve hear of a p. and o. quartermaster in full command of an arm launch there. 
do you think click ud ha go up that way. pritchard ask. 
there s no say. he be send up to bloemfontein to take over some navy ammunition leave in the fort. we know he take it over and saw it into the truck. then there be no more click then or thereafter. four month ago it transpire and thus the casus belli stand at present say pyecroft. 
what be his mark. say hooper again. 
doe the railway get a reward for returnin em then. say pritchard. 
if i do d you suppose i d talk about it. hooper retort angrily. 
you seem so very interest say pritchard with equal crispness. 
why be he call click. i ask to tide over an uneasy little break in the conversation. the two men be star at each other very fixedly. 
because of an ammunition hoist carryin away say pyecroft. and it carry away four of be teeth on the low port side wasn t it pritch. the substitute which he buy weren t screw home in a manner o sayin. when he talk fast they use to lift a little on the bed plate. ence click. they call im a superior man which be what we d call a long black air genteely speakin alf breed beggar on the low deck. 
four false teeth on the low leave jaw say hooper his hand in his waistcoat pocket. what tattoo mark. 
look here begin pritchard half rise. i m sure we re very grateful to you a a gentleman for your orspitality but per aps we may ave make an error in. 
i look at pyecroft for aid hooper be crimson rapidly. 
if the fat marine now occupy the foc sle will kindly bring be status quo to an anchor yet once more we may be able to talk like gentleman not to say friend say pyecroft. he regard you mr. hooper a a emissary of the law. 
i only wish to observe that when a gentleman exhibit such a peculiar or i should rather say such a bloomin curiosity in identification mark a our friend here. 
mr. pritchard i interpose i ll take all the responsibility for mr. hooper. 
an you_ ll apologise all round say pyecroft. you re a rude little man pritch. 
but how be i he begin waver. 
i don t know an i don t care. apologise. 
the giant look round bewilder and take our little hand into his vast grip one by one. i be wrong he say meekly a a sheep. my suspicion be unfounded. mr. hooper i apologise. 
you do quite right to look out for your own end o the line say hooper. i d ha do the same with a gentleman i didn t know you see. if you don t mind i d like to hear a little more o your mr. vickery. it s safe with me you see. 
why do vickery run i begin but pyecroft s smile make me turn my question to who be she. 
she kep a little hotel at hauraki near auckland say pyecroft. 
by gawd. roar pritchard slap his hand on his leg. not mr. bathurst. 
pyecroft nod slowly and the sergeant call all the power of darkness to witness his bewilderment. 
so far a i could get at it mr. b. be the lady in question. 
but click be marry cry pritchard. 
an ad a fifteen year old daughter. e s show me her photograph. settin that aside so to say ave you ever find these little thing make much difference. because i haven t. 
good lord alive an watchin. mr. bathurst. then with another roar. you can say what you please pye but you don t make me believe it be any of er fault. she wasn t that. 
if i be go to say what i please i d begin by callin you a silly ox an work up to the high pressure at leisure. i m try to say solely what transpire. m rover for once you re right. it wasn t her fault. 
you couldn t aven t make me believe it if it ad be be the answer. 
such faith in a sergeant of marine interest me greatly. never mind about that i cry. tell me what she be like. 
she be a widow say pyecroft. leave so very young and never re splice. she kep a little hotel for warrant and non coms close to auckland an she always wear black silk and er neck. 
you ask what she be like pritchard break in. let me give you an instance. i be at auckland first in at the end o the marroquin s commission an a i d be promote i go up with the others. she use to look after u all an she never lose by it not a penny. pay me now she d say or settle late. i know you win t let me suffer. send the money from home if you like why gentleman all i tell you i ve see that lady take her own gold watch an chain off her neck in the bar an pas it to a bosun oo d come ashore without be ticker an ad to catch the last boat. i don t know your name she say but when you ve do with it you ll find plenty that know me on the front. send it back by one o them. and it be worth thirty pound if it be worth arf a crown. the little gold watch pye with the blue monogram at the back. but a i be sayin in those day she kep a beer that agree with me slit it be call. one way an another i must ave punish a good few bottle of it while we be in the bay comin ashore every night or so. chaffin across the bar like once when we be alone mr. b. i say when next i call i want you to remember that this be my particular just a you re my particular. she d let you go that far. just a you re my particular i say. oh thank you sergeant pritchard she say an put er hand up to the curl be ind er ear. remember that way she have pye. 
i think so say the sailor. 
yes thank you sergeant pritchard she say. the least i can do be to mark it for you in case you change your mind. there s no great demand for it in the fleet she say but to make sure i ll put it at the back o the shelf an she snip off a piece of her hair ribbon with that old dolphin cigar cutter on the bar remember it pye. an she tie a bow round what be leave just four bottle. that be no. in i be in the resiliant china station full commission. in nineteen one mark you i be in the carthusian_ back in auckland bay again. of course i go up to mr. b. s with the rest of u to see how thing be goin. they be the same a ever. remember the big tree on the pavement by the side bar pye. i never say anythin in special. there be too many of u talkin to her. but she saw me at once. 
that wasn t difficult. i venture. 
ah but wait. i be comin up to the bar when ada she say to her niece get me sergeant pritchard s particular and gentleman all i tell you before i could shake ands with the lady there be those four bottle o slit with er air ribbon in a bow round each o their neck set down in front o me an a she draw the cork she look at me under her eyebrow in that blindish way she have o lookin an sergeant pritchard she say i do ope you aven t change your mind about your particular. that s the kind o woman she be after five year. 
i don t see her yet somehow say hooper but with sympathy. 
she she never scruple to fee a lame duck or set er foot on a scorpion at any time of er life pritchard add valiantly. 
that don t help me either. my mother s like that for one. 
the giant heave inside his uniform and roll his eye at the car roof. say pyecroft suddenly. 
how many woman have you be intimate with all over the world pritch. 
pritchard blush plum colour to the short hair of his seventeen inch neck. 
undreds say pyecroft. so ve i. how many of em can you remember in your own mind settin aside the first an per aps the last and one more. 
few wonderful few now i tax myself say sergeant pritchard relievedly. 
an how many time might you ave be at aukland. 
one two he begin. why i can t make it more than three time in ten year. but i can remember every time that i ever saw mr. b. 
so can i an i ve only be to auckland twice how she stand an what she be sayin an what she look like. that s the secret. tisn t beauty so to speak nor good talk necessarily. it s just it. some woman ll stay in a man s memory if they once walk down a street but most of em you can live with a month on end an next commission you d be put to it to certify whether they talk in their sleep or not a one might say. 
ah say hooper. that s more the idea. i ve know just two woman of that nature. 
an it be no fault o theirs. ask pritchard. 
none whatever. i know that. 
an if a man get strike with that kind o woman mr. hooper. pritchard go on. 
he go crazy or just save himself be the slow answer. 
you ve hit it say the sergeant. you ve see an know somethin in the course o your life mr. hooper. i m lookin at you. he set down his bottle. 
and how often have vickery see her. i ask. 
that s the dark an bloody mystery pyecroft answer. i d never come across him till i come out in the hierophant just now an there wasn t any one in the ship who know much about him. you see he be what you call a superior man. e speak to me once or twice about auckland and mr. b. on the voyage out. i call that to mind subsequently. there must ave be a good deal between em to my way o thinkin. mind you i m only give you my sum of it all because all i know be second hand so to speak or rather i should say more than second and. 
how. say hooper peremptorily. you must have see it or hear it. 
yes say pyecroft. i use to think seein and hearin be the only regulation aid to ascertainin fact but a we get old we get more accommodatin. the cylinder work easy i suppose. be you in cape town last december when phyllis s circus come. 
no up country say hooper a little nettle at the change of venue. 
i ask because they have a new turn of a scientific nature call home and friend for a tickey. 
oh you mean the cinematograph the picture of prize fight and steamer. i ve see em up country. 
biograph or cinematograph be what i be alludin to. london bridge with the omnibus a troopship goin to the war marine on parade at portsmouth an the plymouth express arrivin at paddin ton. 
see em all. see em all say hooper impatiently. 
we hierophants come in just before christmas week an leaf be easy. 
i think a man get feed up with cape town quick than anywhere else on the station. why even durban s more like nature. we be there for christmas pritchard put in. 
not bein a devotee of indian peeris_ a our doctor say to the pusser i can t exactly say. phyllis s be good enough after musketry practice at mozambique. i couldn t get off the first two or three night on account of what you might call an imbroglio with our torpedo lieutenant in the submerge flat where some pride of the west country have sugar up a gyroscope. but i remember vickery go ashore with our carpenter rigdon old crocus we call him. a a general rule crocus never leave be ship unless an until he be oisted out with a winch but when e go e would return noddin like a lily gemmed with dew. we smother him down below that night but the thing e say about vickery a a fittin playmate for a warrant officer of be cubic capacity before we get him quiet be what i should call point. 
i ve be with crocus in the redoubtable_ say the sergeant. he s a character if there be one. 
next night i go into cape town with dawson and pratt. but just at the door of the circus i come across vickery. oh. he say you re the man i m look for. come and sit next me. this way to the shillin place. i go astern at once protestin because tickey seat good suit my so call finance. come on say vickery i m payin. naturally i abandon pratt and dawson in anticipation o drink to match the seat. no he say when this be inted not now. not now. a many a you please afterwards but i want you sober for the occasion. i catch be face under a lamp just then an the appearance of it quite cure me of my thirst. don t mistake. it didn t frighten me. it make me anxious. i can t tell you what it be like but that be the effect which it ad on me. if you want to know it remind me of those thing in bottle in those herbalistic shop at plymouth preserve in spirit of wine. white an crumply thing previous to birth a you might say. 
you ave a beastial mind pye say the sergeant relighting his pipe. 
perhaps. we be in the front row an home an friend come on early. vickery touch me on the knee when the number go up. if you see anything that strike you he say drop me a hint. then he go on click. we saw london bridge an so forth an so on an it be most interestin. i d never see it before. you eard a little dynamo like buzzin but the picture be the real thing alive an movin. 
i ve see em say hooper. of course they be take from the very thing itself you see. 
then the western mail come in to paddin ton on the big magic lantern sheet. first we saw the platform empty an the porter standin by. then the engine come in head on an the woman in the front row jump. she head so straight. then the door open and the passenger come out and the porter get the luggage just like life. only only when any one come down too far towards u that be watchin they walk right out o the picture so to speak. i be ighly interest i can tell you. so be all of u. i watch an old man with a rug oo d drop a book an be tryin to pick it up when quite slowly from be ind two porter carryin a little reticule an lookin from side to side come out mr. bathurst. there be no mistakin the walk in a hundred thousand. she come forward right forward she look out straight at u with that blindish look which pritch allude to. she walk on and on till she melt out of the picture like like a shadow jumpin over a candle an a she go i eard dawson in the ticky seat be ind sing out. christ. there s mr. b. 
hooper swallow his spittle and lean forward intently. 
vickery touch me on the knee again. he be clickin his four false teeth with his jaw down like an enteric at the last kick. be you sure. say he. sure i say didn t you ear dawson give tongue. why it s the woman herself. i be sure before he say but i bring you to make sure. will you come again with me to morrow. 
willingly i say it s like meetin old friend. 
yes he say openin his watch very like. it will be four and twenty hour le four minute before i see her again. come and have a drink he say. it may amuse you but it s no sort of earthly use to me. he go out shake his head an stumblin over people s foot a if he be drink already. i anticipate a swift drink an a speedy return because i want to see the performin elephant. instead o which vickery begin to navigate the town at the rate o knot lookin in at a bar every three minute approximate greenwich time. i m not a drinkin man though there be those present he cock his unforgetable eye at me who may have see me more or le imbue with the fragrant spirit. none the le when i drink i like to do it at anchor an not at an average speed of eighteen knot on the measure mile. there s a tank a you might say at the back o that big hotel up the hill what do they call it. 
the molteno reservoir i suggest and hooper nod. 
that be his limit o drift. we walk there an we come down through the garden there be a south easter blowin an we finish up by the dock. then we bore up the road to salt river and wherever there be a pub vickery put in sweatin. he didn t look at what he drink he didn t look at the change. he walk an he drink an he perspire in river. i understand why old crocus ad come back in the condition e do because vickery an i ad two an a half hour o this gipsy manoeuvre an when we get back to the station there wasn t a dry atom on or in me. 
do he say anything. pritchard ask. 
the sum total of be conversation from. p. m. till. p. m. be let s have another. thus the mornin an the evenin be the first day a scripture say. to abbreviate a lengthy narrative i go into cape town for five consecutive night with master vickery and in that time i must ave log about fifty knot over the grind an take in two gallon o all the bad spirit south the equator. the evolution never vary. two shill seat for u two. five minute o the picture an perhaps forty five second o mr. b. walk down towards u with that blindish look in her eye an the reticule in her hand. then out walk and drink till train time. 
what do you think. say hooper his hand finger his waistcoat pocket. 
several thing say pyecroft. to tell you the truth i aren t quite do thinkin about it yet. mad. the man be a dumb lunatic must ave be for month year p rap. i know somethin o maniac a every man in the service must. i ve be shipmate with a mad skipper an a lunatic number one but never both together i thank eaven. i could give you the name o three captain now oo ought to be in an asylum but you don t find me interferin with the mentally afflict till they begin to lay about em with rammer an winch handle. only once i creep up a little into the wind towards master vickery. i wonder what she s doin in england i say. don t it seem to you she s lookin for somebody. that be in the garden again with the south easter blowin a we be makin our desperate round. she s lookin for me he say stoppin dead under a lamp an clickin. when he wasn t drinkin in which case all be teeth click on the glass e be clickin be four false teeth like a marconi ticker. yes. lookin for me he say an he go on very softly an a you might say affectionately. but. he go on in future mr. pyecroft i should take it kindly of you if you d confine your remark to the drink set before you. otherwise he say with the best will in the world towards you i may find myself guilty of murder. do you understand. he say. perfectly i say but would it at all soothe you to know that in such a case the chance o your be kill be precisely equivalent to the chance o me be out. why no he say i m almost afraid that ud be a temptation. 
then i say we be right under the lamp by that arch at the end o the garden where the tram come round assumin murder be do or attempt murder i put it to you that you would still be leave so badly cripple a one might say that your subsequent capture by the police to oom you would ave to explain would be largely inevitable. that s good e say passin be hand over his forehead. that s much good because he say do you know a i be now pye i m not so sure if i could explain anything much. those be the only particular word i have with im in our walk a i remember. 
what walk. say hooper. oh my soul what walk. 
they be chronic say pyecroft gravely but i didn t anticipate any danger till the circus leave. then i anticipate that bein deprive of be stimulant he might react on me so to say with a hatchet. consequently after the final performance an the ensuin wet walk i kep myself aloof from my superior officer on board in the execution of be duty a you might put it. consequently i be interest when the sentry inform me while i be passin on my lawful occasion that click have ask to see the captain. a a general rule warrant officer don t dissipate much of the owner s time but click put in an hour and more be ind that door. my duty kep me within eyeshot of it. vickery come out first an e actually nod at me an smile. this knock me out o the boat because havin see be face for five consecutive night i didn t anticipate any change there more than a condenser in hell so to speak. the owner emerge late. his face didn t read off at all so i fell back on his cox oo d be eight year with him and know him good than boat signal. lamson that be the cox s name cross be bow once or twice at low speed an drop down to me visibly concern. he s ship be court martial face say lamson. some one s goin to be ung. i ve never see that look but once before when they chuck the gun sight overboard in the fantastic. throwin gun sight overboard mr. hooper be the equivalent for mutiny in these degenerate day. it s do to attract the notice of the authority an the western mornin news generally by a stoker. naturally word go round the low deck an we have a private over aul of our little conscience. but barrin a shirt which a second class stoker say ad walk into be bag from the marine flat by itself nothin vital transpire. the owner go about flyin the signal for attend public execution so to say but there be no corpse at the yardarm. e lunch on the beach an e return with be regulation harbour routine face about p. m. thus lamson lose prestige for raise false alarm. the only person oo might ave connect the epicycloidal gear correctly be one pyecroft when he be tell that mr. vickery would go up country that same even to take over certain naval ammunition leave after the war in bloemfontein fort. no detail be order to accompany master vickery. he be tell off first person singular a a unit by himself. 
the marine whistle penetratingly. 
that s what i think say pyecroft. i go ashore with him in the cutter an e ask me to walk through the station. he be clickin audibly but otherwise seem happy ish. 
you might like to know he say stoppin just opposite the admiral s front gate that phyllis s circus will be performin at worcester to morrow night. so i shall see er yet once again. you ve be very patient with me he say. 
look here vickery i say this thing s come to be just a much a i can stand. consume your own smoke. i don t want to know any more. 
you. he say. what have you get to complain of. you ve only ad to watch. i m it_ he say but that s neither here nor there he say. i ve one thing to say before shakin ands. remember e say we be just by the admiral s garden gate then remember that i be not a murderer because my lawful wife die in childbed six week after i come out. that much at least i be clear of e say. 
then what have you do that signify. i say. what s the rest of it. 
the rest e say be silence an he shake ands and go clickin into simon town station. 
do he stop to see mr. bathurst at worcester. i ask. 
it s not know. he report at bloemfontein saw the ammunition into the truck and then e disappear. go out desert if you care to put it so within eighteen month of his pension an if what e say about be wife be true he be a free man a e then stand. how do you read it off. 
poor devil. say hooper. to see her that way every night. i wonder what it be. 
i ve make my ead ache in that direction many a long night. 
but i ll swear mr. b. ad no and in it say the sergeant unshaken. 
no. whatever the wrong or deceit be he do it i m sure o that. i ad to look at be face for five consecutive night. i m not so fond o navigatin about cape town with a south easter blowin these day. i can hear those teeth click so to say. 
ah those teeth say hooper and his hand go to his waistcoat pocket once more. permanent thing false teeth be. you read about em in all the murder trial. 
what d you suppose the captain know or do. i ask. 
i never turn my searchlight that way pyecroft answer unblushingly. 
we all reflect together and drum on empty beer bottle a the picnic party sunburn wet and sandy pass our door sing the honeysuckle and the bee. 
pretty girl under that kapje say pyecroft. 
they never circulate his description. say pritchard. 
i be askin you before these gentleman come say hooper to me whether you know wankies on the way to the zambesi beyond buluwayo. 
would he pas there tryin to get to that lake what s be name. say pritchard. 
hooper shake his head and go on. there s a curious bite o line there you see. it run through solid teak forest a sort o mahogany really seventy two mile without a curve. i ve have a train derail there twenty three time in forty mile. i be up there a month ago relievin a sick inspector you see. he tell me to look out for a couple of tramp in the teak. 
two. pyecroft say. i don t envy that other man if. 
we get heap of tramp up there since the war. the inspector tell me i d find em at m bindwe side wait to go north. he d give em some grub and quinine you see. i go up on a construction train. i look out for em. i saw them mile ahead along the straight wait in the teak. one of em be standin up by the dead end of tke side an the other be squattin down lookin up at im you see. 
what do you do for em. say pritchard. 
there wasn t much i could do except bury em. there d be a bite of a thunderstorm in the teak you see and they be both stone dead and a black a charcoal. that s what they really be you see charcoal. they fell to bit when we try to shift em. the man who be standin up have the false teeth. i saw em shinin against the black. fell to bit he do too like his mate squat down an watchin him both of em all wet in the rain. both burn to charcoal you see. and that s what make me ask about mark just now the false toother be tattoo on the arm and chest a crown and foul anchor with m. v. above. 
i ve see that say pyecroft quickly. it be so. 
but if he be all charcoal like. say pritchard shudder. 
you know how write show up white on a burn letter. well it be like that you see. we bury em in the teak and i keep. but he be a friend of you two gentleman you see. 
mr. hooper bring his hand away from his waistcoat pocket empty. 
pritchard cover his face with his hand for a moment like a child shut out an ugliness. 
and to think of her at hauraki. he murmur with er air ribbon on my beer. ada she say to her niece. oh my gawd. 
on a summer afternoon when the honeysuckle bloom and all nature seem at rest underneath the bower mid the perfume of the flower sit a maiden with the one she love the best. 
sing the picnic party wait for their train at glengariff. 
well i don t know how you feel about it say pyecroft but avin see be face for five consecutive night on end i m incline to finish what s leave of the beer an thank gawd he s dead. 
below the mill dam. 
our father also. 
by they be by with mirth and tear wit or the work of desire cushion about on the kindly year between the wall and the fire. 
the grape be press the corn be shock standeth no more to glean. for the gate of love and learn lock when they go out between. 
all lore our lady venus bar signal it be or tell by the dear lip long give to theirs and long to the mould. 
all profit all device all truth write it be or say by the mighty men of their mighty youth. which be mighty be dead. 
the film that float before their eye the temple s veil they call. and the dust that on the shewbread lie be holy over all. 
warn them of sea that slip our yoke of slow conspire star the ancient front of thing unbroke but heavy with new war. 
by they be by with mirth and tear. wit or the waste of desire cushion about on the kindly year between the wall and the fire. 
below the mill dam. 
book book domesday book. they be let in the water for the even stint at robert s mill and the wooden wheel where live the spirit of the mill settle to it nine hundred year old song. here azor a freeman hold one rod but it never pay geld. nun nun nunquam geldavit. here reinbert ha one villein and four cottar with one plough and wood for six hog and two fishery of sixpence and a mill of ten shilling unum molinum one mill. reinbert s mill robert s mill. then and afterwards and now tunc et post et modo robert s mill. book book domesday book. 
i confess say the black rat on the crossbeam luxuriously trim his whisker i confess i be not above appreciate my position and all it mean. he be a genuine old english black rat a breed which report say be rapidly diminish before the incursion of the brown variety. 
appreciation be the sure sign of inadequacy say the grey cat coil up on a piece of sack. 
but i know what you mean she add. to sit by right at the heart of thing eh. 
yes say the black rat a the old mill shake and the heavy stone thuttered on the grist. to posse er all this environment a an integral part of one s daily life must insensibly of course. you see. 
i feel say the grey cat. indeed if we be not saturate with the spirit of the mill who should be. 
book book domesday book. the wheel set to his work be run off the tenure of the whole rape for he know domesday book backwards and forward. _in ferle tenuit abbatia de wiltuna unam hidam et unam virgam et dimidiam. nunquam geldavit. and agemond a freeman ha half a hide and one rod. i remember agemond well. charmin fellow friend of mine. he marry a norman girl in the day when we rather look down on the norman a upstart. an agemond s dead. so he be. eh dearie me. dearie me. i remember the wolf howl outside his door in the big frost of ten fifty nine. essewelde hundredum nunquam geldum reddidit. book. book. domesday book. 
after all the grey cat continue atmospere be life. it be the influence under which we live that count in the long run. now outside she cock one ear towards the half open door there be an absurd convention that rat and cat be i win t go so far a to say natural enemy but oppose force. some such rule may be crudely effective i don t for a minute presume to set up my standard a final among the ditch. but from the large point of view that one gain by live at the heart of thing it seem for a rule of life a little overstrain. why because some of your associate have shall i say liberal view on the ultimate destination of a sack of er middling don t they call them. 
something of that sort say the black rat a most sharp and sweet toothed judge of everything grind in the mill for the last three year. 
thank middling be it. why_ a i be say must i disarrange my fur and my digestion to chase you round the dusty arena whenever we happen to meet. 
a little reason say the black rat a there be for me who i trust be a person of ordinarily decent instinct to wait till you have go on a round of call and then to assassinate your very charm child. 
exactly. it ha it humorous side though. the grey cat yawn. the miller seem afflict by it. he shout large and vague threat to my address last night at tea that he wasn t go to keep cat who catch no mouse. those be his word. i remember the grammar stick in my throat like a herring bone. 
and what do you do. 
what doe one do when a barbarian utter. one cease to utter and remove. i remove towards his pantry. it be a riposte he might appreciate. 
really those people grow absolutely insufferable say the black rat. there be a local ruffian who answer to the name of mangle a builder who ha take possession of the outhouse on the far side of the wheel for the last fortnight. he ha construct cubical horror in red brick where those deliciously picturesque pigstyes use to stand. have you notice. 
there ha be much misdirect activity of late among the human. they jabber inordinately. i haven t yet be able to arrive at their reason for existence. the cat yawn. 
a couple of them come in here last week with wire and fix them all about the wall. wire protect by some abominable composition end in iron bracket with glass bulb. utterly useless for any purpose and artistically absolutely hideous. what do they mean. 
aaah. i have know four and twenty leader of revolt in faenza say the cat who keep good company with the boarder spend a summer at the mill farm. it mean nothing except that human occasionally bring their dog with them. i object to dog in all form. 
shouldn t object to dog say the wheel sleepily. the abbot of wilton keep the best pack in the county. he enclose all the harryngton wood to sturt common. aluric a freeman be dispossess of his hold. they try the case at lewes but he get no change out of william de warrenne on the bench. william de warrenne fin aluric eight and fourpence for treason and the abbot of wilton excommunicate him for blasphemy. aluric be no sportsman. then the abbot s brother marry. i ve forget her name but she be a charmin little woman. the lady philippa be her daughter. that be after the barony be confer. she ride devilish straight to hound. they be a bite throaty than we breed now but a good pack. one of the best. the abbot keep em in splendid shape. now who be the woman the abbot keep. book book. i shall have to go right back to domesday and work up the century. modo per omnia reddit burgum tunc tunc tunc. be it burgum or hundredum. i shall remember in a minute. there s no hurry. he pause a he turn over silver with shower drop. 
this win t do say the water in the sluice. keep move. 
the wheel swing forward. the water roar on the bucket and drop down to the darkness below. 
noisy than usual say the black rat. it must have be rain up the valley. 
flood maybe say the wheel dreamily. it isn t the proper season but they can come without warn. i shall never forget the big one when the miller go to sleep and forget to open the hatch. more than two hundred year ago it be but i recall it distinctly. most unsettle. 
we lift that wheel off his bearing cry the water. we say take away that bauble. and in the morning he be five mile down the valley hang up in a tree. 
vulgar. say the cat. but i be sure he never lose his dignity. 
we don t know. he look like the ace of diamond when we have finish with him. move on there. keep on move. over. get over. 
and why on this day more than any other say the wheel statelily. i be not aware that my department require the stimulus of external pressure to keep it up to it duty. i trust i have the elementary instinct of a gentleman. 
maybe the water answer together leap down on the bucket. we only know that you be very stiff on your bearing. over get over. 
the wheel creak and groan. there be certainly great pressure upon him that he have ever felt and his revolution have increase from six and three quarter to eight and a third per minute. but the uproar between the narrow weed hang wall annoy the grey cat. 
isn t it almost time she say plaintively that the person who be pay to understand these thing shut off those vehement dripping with that screw thing on the top of that box thing. 
they ll be shut off at eight o clock a usual say rat. then we can go to dinner. 
but we shan t be shut off till ever so late say the water gaily. we shall keep it up all night. 
the ineradicable offensiveness of youth be partially compensate for by it eternal hopefulness say the cat. our dam be not i be glad to say design to furnish water for more than four hour at a time. reserve be life. 
thank goodness. say the black rat. then they can return to their native ditch. 
ditch. cry the water. raven s gill brook be no ditch. it be almost navigable and we come from there away. they slide over solid and compact till the wheel thud under their weight. 
raven s gill brook say the rat. _i never hear of raven s gill. 
we be the water of harpenden brook down from under callton rise. phew. how the race stink compare with the heather country. another five foot of water fling itself against the wheel break roar gurgle and be go. 
indeed say the grey cat i be sorry to tell you that raven s gill brook be cut off from this valley by an absolutely impassable range of mountain and callton rise be more than nine mile away. it belong to another system entirely. 
ah yes say the rat grin but we forget that for the young water always run uphill. 
oh hopeless. hopeless. hopeless. cry the water descend open palm upon the wheel there be nothing between here and raven s gill brook that a hundred yard of channel and a few square foot of concrete could not remove. and hasn t remove. 
and harpenden brook be north of raven s gill and run into raven s gill at the foot of callton rise where ilex tree be and we come from there. these be the glassy clear water of the high chalk. 
and batten s pond that be feed by spring have be lead through trott s wood take the spare water from the old witch spring under churt haw and we we we be their combine water. those be the water from the upland bog and moor a porter colour dusky and foam fleck flood. 
it s all very interest purr the cat to the slide water and i have no doubt that trott s wood and bott s wood be tremendously important place. but if you could manage to do your work whose value i don t in the least dispute a little more soberly i for one should be grateful. 
book book book book book domesday book. the urge wheel be fairly clatter now. in burgelstaltone a monk hold of earl godwin one hide and a half with eight villein. there be a church and a monk. i remember that monk. bless if he could rattle his rosary off any quick than i be do now. and wood for seven hog. i must be run twelve to the minute. almost a fast a steam. damnable invention steam. surely it s time we go to dinner or prayer or something. can t keep up this pressure day in and day out and not feel it. i don t mind for myself of course. noblesse oblige_ you know. i m only think of the upper and the nether millstone. they come out of the common rock. they can t be expect to. 
don t worry on our account please say the millstone huskily. so long a you supply the power we ll supply the weight and the bite. 
isn t it a trifle blasphemous though to work you in this way. grunt the wheel. i seem to remember something about the mill of god grind slowly. slowly be the word. 
but we be not the mill of god. we re only the upper and the nether millstone. we have receive no instruction to be anything else. we be actuate by power transmit through you. 
ah but let u be merciful a we be strong. think of all the beautiful little plant that grow on my woodwork. there be five variety of rare moss within le than one square yard and all these delicate jewel of nature be be grievously knock about by this excessive rush of the water. 
umph. growl the millstone. what with your religious scruple and your taste for botany we d hardly know you for the wheel that put the carter s son under last autumn. you never worry about him. 
he ought to have know good. 
so ought your jewel of nature. tell em to grow where it s safe. 
how a purely mercantile life debase and brutalise. say the cat to the rat. 
they be such beautiful little plant too say the rat tenderly. maiden s tongue and hart s hair fern trellis all over the wall just a they do on the side of church in the down. think what a joy the sight of them must be to our sturdy peasant pull hay. 
golly. say the millstone. there s nothing like come to the heart of thing for information. and they return to the song that all english water mill have sing from time beyond tell. 
there be a jovial miller once live on the river dee and this the burden of his song for ever use to be. 
then a fresh grist pour in and dull the note. 
i care for nobody no not i and nobody care for me. 
even these stone have absorb something of our atmosphere say the grey cat. nine tenth of the trouble in this world come from lack of detachment. 
one of your people die from forget that didn t she. say the rat. 
one only. the example ha suffice u for generation. 
ah. but what happen to don t care. the water demand. 
brutal rid to death of the casual analogy be another mark of provincialism. the grey cat raise her tufted chin. i be go to sleep. with my social obligation i must snatch rest when i can. but a our old friend here say noblesse oblige. pity me. three function to night in the village and a barn dance across the valley. 
there s no chance i suppose of your look in on the loft about two. some of our young people be go to amuse themselves with a new sacque dance best white flour only say the black rat. 
i believe i be officially suppose not to countenance that sort of thing but youth be youth. by the way the human set my milk bowl in the loft these day. i hope your youngster respect it. 
my dear lady say the black rat bow you grieve me. you hurt me inexpressibly. after all these year too. 
a general crush be so mix highway and hedge all that sort of thing and no one can answer for one s best friend. i never try. so long a mine be amusin and in full voice and can hold their own at a tile party i m a catholic a these mix water in the dam here. 
we aren t mix. we have mix. we be one now say the water sulkily. 
still utter. say the cat. never mind here s the miller come to shut you off. ye e i have know four or five be it. and twenty leader of revolt in faenza. a little more babble in the dam a little more noise in the sluice a little extra splash on the wheel and then. 
they will find that nothing ha occur say the black rat. the old thing persist and survive and be recognise our old friend here first of all. by the way he turn toward the wheel i believe we have to congratulate you on your late honour. 
profoundly well deserve even if he have never a he ha labour strenuously through a long life for the amelioration of millkind say the cat who belong to many tile and outhouse committee. doubly deserve i may say for the silent and dignify rebuke his existence offer to the clatter fidgety foot demand of er some people. what form do the honour take. 
it be say the wheel bashfully a machine mould pinion. 
pinion. oh how heavenly. the black rat sigh. i never see a bat without wish for wing. 
not exactly that sort of pinion say the wheel but a really ornate circle of toothed iron wheel. absurd of course but gratify. mr. mangle and an associate herald invest me with it personally on my leave rim the side that you can t see from the mill. i hadn t mean to say anything about it or the new steel strap round my axle bright red you know to be wear on all occasion but without false modesty i assure you that the recognition cheer me not a little. 
how intensely gratify. say the black rat. i must really steal an hour between light some day and see what they be do on your leave side. 
by the way have you any light on this recent activity of mr. mangle. the grey cat ask. he seem to be build small house on the far side of the tail race. believe me i don t ask from any vulgar curiosity. 
it affect our order say the black rat simply but firmly. 
thank you say the wheel. let me see if i can tabulate it properly. nothing like system in account of all kind. book. book. book. on the side of the wheel towards the hundred of burgelstaltone where till now be a stye of three hog mangle a freeman with four villein and two cart of two thousand brick ha a new small house of five yard and a half and one roof of iron and a floor of cement. then now and afterwards beer in large tankard. and felden a strange with three villein and one very great cart deposit on it one engine of iron and brass and a small iron mill of four foot and a broad strap of leather. and mangle the builder with two villein construct the floor for the same and a floor of new brick with wire for the small mill. there be there also chalice fill with iron and water in number fifty seven. the whole be value at one hundred and seventy four pound. i m sorry i can t make myself clear but you can see for yourself. 
amazingly lucid say the cat. she be the more to be admire because the language of domesday book be not perhaps the clear medium wherein to describe a small but complete electric light installation derive it power from a water wheel by mean of cog and gear. 
see for yourself by all mean see for yourself say the water splutter and choke with mirth. 
upon my word say the black rat furiously i may be at fault but i wholly fail to perceive where these offensive eavesdropper er come in. we be discuss a matter that solely affect our order. 
suddenly they hear a they have hear many time before the miller shut off the water. to the rattle and rumble of the labour stone succeed thick silence punctuate with little drop from the stay wheel. then some water bird in the dam flutter her wing a she slide to her nest and the plop of a water rat sound like the fall of a log in the water. 
it be all over it always be all over at just this time. listen the miller be go to bed a usual. nothing ha occur say the cat. 
something creak in the house where the pig stye have stand a metal engage on metal with a clink and a burr. 
shall i turn her on. cry the miller. 
ay say the voice from the dynamo house. 
a human in mangle new house. the rat squeak. 
what of it. say the grey cat. even suppose mr. mangle cat meat colour hovel ululate with human can t you see for yourself that. 
there be a solid crash of release water leap upon the wheel more furiously than ever a grind of cog a hum like the hum of a hornet and then the unvisited darkness of the old mill be scatter by intolerable white light. it throw up every cobweb every burl and knot in the beam and the floor. till the shadow behind the flake of rough plaster on the wall lay clear cut a shadow of mountain on the photograph moon. 
see. see. see. hiss the water in full flood. yes see for yourselves. nothing ha occur. can t you see. 
the rat amaze have fall from his foothold and lay half stun on the floor. the cat follow her instinct leap nigh to the ceiling and with flatten ear and bar teeth back in a corner ready to fight whatever terror might be loose on her. but nothing happen. through the long ache minute nothing whatever happen and her wire brush tail return slowly to it proper shape. 
whatever it be she say at last it s overdo. they can never keep it up you know. 
much you know say the water. over you go old man. you can take the full head of u now. those new steel axle strap of yours can stand anything. come along raven s gill harpenden callton rise batten s pond witch spring all together. let s show these gentleman how to work. 
but but i think it be a decoration. why why why it only mean more work for me. 
exactly. you re to supply about sixty eight candle light when require. but they win t be all in use at once. 
ah. i think a much say the cat. the reaction be bind to come. 
_and_ say the water you will do the ordinary work of the mill a well. 
impossible. the old wheel quiver a it drive. aluric never do it nor azor nor reinbert. not even william de warrenne or the papal legate. there s no precedent for it. i tell you there s no precedent for work a wheel like this. 
wait a while. we re make one a fast a we can. aluric and co. be dead. so s the papal legate. you ve no notion how dead they be but we re here the water of five separate system. we re just a interest a domesday book. would you like to hear about the land tenure in trott s wood. it s squat right chiefly. the mock water leap one over the other chuckle and chatter profanely. 
in that hundred jenkins a tinker with one dog unis canis hold by the grace of god and a habit he ha of work hard unam hidam a large potato patch. charmin fellow jenkins. friend of ours. now who the dooce do jenkins keep. in the hundred of callton be one charcoal burner irreligiosissimus homo a bite of a rip but a thorough sportsman. ibi est ecclesia. non multum. not much of a church quia because episcopus the vicar irritate the nonconformist tunc et post et modo then and afterwards and now until they build a cut stone congregational chapel with red brick facing that do not return itself defendebat se at four thousand pound. 
charcoal burner vicar schismatics and red brick facing groan the wheel. but this be sheer blasphemy. what water have they let in upon me. 
flood from the gutter. faugh this light be positively sicken. say the cat rearrange her fur. 
we come down from the cloud or up from the spring exactly like all other water everywhere. be that what s surprise you. sing the water. 
of course not. i know my work if you don t. what i complain of be your lack of reverence and repose. you ve no instinct of deference towards your better your heartless parody of the sacred volume. the wheel mean domesday book. prof it. 
our better. say the water most solemnly. what be there in all this dam race that hasn t come down from the cloud or. 
spare me that talk please the wheel persist. you d never understand. it s the tone your tone that we object to. 
yes. it s your tone say the black rat pick himself up limb by limb. 
if you think a trifle more about the work you re suppose to do and a trifle le about your precious feeling you d render a little more duty in return for the power vest in you we mean waste on you the water reply. 
i have be some hundred of year laboriously acquire the knowledge which you see fit to challenge so light heartedly the wheel jar. 
challenge him. challenge him. clamour the little wave riddle down through the tail race. a well now a late. take him up. 
the main mass of the water plunge on the wheel shock that well bolt structure almost into box lid by say. very good. tell u what you suppose yourself to be do at the present moment. 
waive the offensive form of your question i answer purely a a matter of courtesy that i be engage in the trituration of farinaceous substance whose ultimate destination it would be a breach of the trust repose in me to reveal. 
fiddle. say the water. we know it all along. the first direct question show his ignorance of his own job. listen old thing. thank to u you be now actuate a machine of whose construction you know nothing that that machine may over wire of whose ramification you be by your very position profoundly ignorant deliver a power which you can never realise to locality beyond the extreme limit of your mental horizon with the object of produce phenomenon which in your wild dream. if you ever dream. you could never comprehend. be that clear or would you like it all in word of four syllable. 
your assumption be deliciously sweep but may i point out that a decent and the dear old abbot of wilton would have put it in his resonant monkish latin much good than i can a scholarly reserve doe not necessarily connote blank vacuity of mind on all subject. 
ah the dear old abbot of wilton say the rat sympathetically a one nurse in that bosom. charmin fellow thorough scholar and gentleman. such a pity. 
oh sacred fountain. the water be fairly boil. he go out of his way to expose his ignorance by triple bucketful. he creak to high heaven that he be hopelessly behind the common order of thing. he invite the stream of five watershed to witness his su su su pernal incompetence and then he talk a though there be untold reserve of knowledge behind him that he be too modest to bring forward. for a bland circular absolutely sincere impostor you re a miracle o wheel. 
i do not pretend to be anything more than an integral portion of an accept and not altogether mushroom institution. 
quite so say the water. then go round hard. 
to what end. ask the wheel. 
till a big box of tank in your house begin to fizz and fume gas be the proper word. 
it would be say the cat sniff. 
that will show that your accumulator be full. when the accumulator be exhaust and the light burn badly you will find u whack you round and round again. 
the end of life a decree by mangle and his creature be to go whack round and round for ever say the cat. 
in order the rat say that you may throw raw and unnecessary illumination upon all the unloveliness in the world. unloveliness which we shall er have always with u. at the same time you will riotously neglect the so call little but vital grace that make up life. 
yes life say the cat with it dim delicious half tone and veil indeterminate distance. it surprisal escape encounter and dizzy leap it full throated chorus in honour of the morning star and it melt revery beneath the sun warm wall. 
oh you can go on the tile pussalina just the same a usual say the laugh water. _we sha n t interfere with you. 
on the tile forsooth. hiss the cat. 
well that s what it amount to persist the water. we see a good deal of the minor grace of life on our way down to our job. 
and but i fear i speak to deaf ear do they never impress you. say the wheel. 
enormously say the water. we have already learn six refine synonym for loaf. 
but. here again i feel a though preach in the wilderness. it never occur to you that there may exist some small difference between the wholly animal ah rumination of bovine mind and the discern well apportion leisure of the fine type of intellect. 
oh yes. the bovine mind go to sleep under a hedge and make no bone about it when it s shout at. we ve see that in hay time all along the meadow. the fine type be wide awake enough to fudge up excuse for shirk and mean enough to get stuffy when it excuse aren t accept. turn over. 
but my good people no gentleman get stuffy a you call it. a certain proper pride to put it no high forbid. 
nothing that he want to do if he really want to do it. get along. what be you give u. d you suppose we ve scour half heaven in the cloud and half earth in the mist to be take in at this time of the day by a bone idle old hand quern of your type. 
it be not for me to bandy personality with you. i can only say that i simply decline to accept the situation. 
decline away. it doesn t make any odds. they ll probably put in a turbine if you decline too much. 
what s a turbine. say the wheel quickly. 
a little thing you don t see that perform surprise revolution. but you win t decline. you ll hang on to your two nice red strap axle and your new machine mould pinion like a like a leech on a lily stem. there s century of work in your old bone if you d only apply yourself to it. and mechanically an overshoot wheel with this head of water be about a efficient a a turbine. 
so in future i be to be consider mechanically. i have be paint by at least five royal academician. 
oh you can be paint by five hundred when you aren t at work of course. but while you be at work you ll work. you win t half stop and think and talk about rare plant and dicky bird and farinaceous fiduciary interest. you ll continue to revolve and this new head of water will see that you do so continue. 
it be a matter on which it would be exceedingly ill advise to form a hasty or a premature conclusion. i will give it my most careful consideration say the wheel. 
please do say the water gravely. hullo. here s the miller again. 
the cat coil herself in a picturesque attitude on the soft corner of a sack and the rat without haste yet certainly without rest slip behind the sack a though an appointment have just occur to him. 
in the doorway with the young engineer stand the miller grin amazedly. 
well well well. ti true ly win erful. an what a power o dirt. it come over me now look at these light that i ve never rightly see my own mill before. she need a lot bein do to her. 
ah. i suppose one must make oneself moderately agreeable to the base sort. they have their us. this thing control the dairy. the cat pincing on her toe come forward and rub her head against the miller s knee. 
ay you pretty pus he say stoop. you re a big a cheat a the rest of em that catch no mouse about me. a win erful smooth skin rough tongue cheat you be. i ve more than half a mind. 
she doe her work well say the engineer point to where the rat s beady eye show behind the sack. cat and rat livin together see. 
too much they do too long they ve do. i m sick and tire of it. go and take a swim and larn to find your own vittles honest when you come out pussy. 
my word. say the water a a sprawl cat land all unannounced in the centre of the tail race. be that you mewsalina. you seem to have be quarrel with your best friend. get over to the leave. it s shallow there. up on that alder root with all four paw. good night. 
you ll never get any they rat say the miller a the young engineer strike wrathfully with his stick at the sack. they re not the common sort. they re the old black english sort. 
be they by jove. i must catch one to stuff some day. 
* * * * *. 
six month late in the chill of a january afternoon they be let in the water a usual. 
come along. it s both gear this even say the wheel kick joyously in the first rush of the icy stream. there s a heavy load of grist just in from lamber s wood. eleven mile it come in an hour and a half in our new motor lorry and the miller s rig five new five candle light in his cow stable. i m feed em to night. there s a cow due to calve. oh while i think of it what s the news from callton rise. 
the water be find their level a usual but why do you ask. say the deep outpouring water. 
because mangle and felden and the miller be talk of increase the plant here and run a saw mill by electricity. i be wonder whether we. 
i beg your pardon say the water chuckle. _what do you say. 
whether we_ of course have power enough for the job. it will be a biggish contract. there s all harpenden brook to be consider and batten s pond a well and witch fountain and the churt s hawd system. 
we ve power enough for anything in the world say the water. the only question be whether you could stand the strain if we come down on you full head. 
of course i can say the wheel. mangle be go to turn me into a set of turbine beauty. 
oh er i suppose it s the frost that ha make u a little thick head but to whom be we talk. ask the amaze water. 
to me the spirit of the mill of course. 
not to the old wheel then. 
i happen to be live in the old wheel just at present. when the turbine be instal i shall go and live in them. what earthly difference doe it make. 
absolutely none say the water in the earth or in the water under the earth. but we think turbine didn t appeal to you. 
not like turbine. me. my dear fellow turbine be good for fifteen hundred revolution a minute and with our power we can drive em at full speed. why there s nothing we couldn t grind or saw or illuminate or heat with a set of turbine. that s to say if all the five watershed be agreeable. 
oh we ve be agreeable for ever so long. 
then why didn t you tell me. 
don t know. suppose it slip our memory. 
the water be hold themselves in for fear of burst with mirth. 
how careless of you. you should keep abreast of the age my dear fellow. we might have settle it long ago if you d only speak. yes four good turbine and a neat brick penstock eh. this old wheel s absurdly out of date. 
well say the cat who after a little proud seclusion have return to her place impenitent a ever. praise be pasht and the old god that whatever may have happen i_ at least have preserve the spirit of the mill. 
she look round a expect her faithful ally the black rat. but that very week the engineer have catch and stuff him and have put him in a glass case. he be a genuine old english black rat. that breed the report say be rapidly diminish before the incursion of the brown variety. 
