letter of travel. 
the dominion edition. 
letter of travel. 

by rudyard kipling. 
macmillan and co. limit st. martin s street london. 
the letter entitle from tideway to tideway be publish originally in the time. those entitle letter to the family in the morning post. and those entitle egypt of the magician in nash s magazine. 
copyright. 
this edition be intend for circulation only in india and the british dominion over the sea. 
content. 
from tideway to tideway. 
in sight of monadnock across a continent the edge of the east our overseas men some earthquake half a dozen picture captain courageous on one side only leaf from a winter note book. 
letter to the family. 
the road to quebec a people at home city and space newspaper and democracy labour the fortunate town mountain and the pacific a conclusion. 
egypt of the magician. 
sea travel a return to the east a serpent of old nile up the river dead king the face of the desert the riddle of empire. 
* * * * *. 
from tideway to tideway. 

in sight of monadnock. across a continent. the edge of the east. our overseas men. some earthquake. half a dozen picture. captain courageous. on one side only. leaf from a winter note book. 
* * * * *. 
in sight of monadnock. 
after the gloom of gray atlantic weather our ship come to america in a flood of winter sunshine that make unaccustomed eyelid blink and the new yorker who be nothing if not modest say this isn t a sample of our really fine day. wait until such and such time come or go to such and a such a quarter of the city. we be content and more than content to drift aimlessly up and down the brilliant street wonder a little why the fine light should be waste on the bad pavement in the world. to walk round and round madison square because that be full of beautifully dress baby play count out game or to gaze reverently at the broad shoulder pug nose irish new york policeman. wherever we go there be the sun lavish and unstinted work nine hour a day with the colour and the clean cut line of perspective that he make. that any one should dare to call this climate muggy yea even subtropical be a shock. there come such a man and he say go north if you want weather weather that be weather. go to new england. so new york pass away upon a sunny afternoon with her roar and rattle her complex smell her triply over heat room and much too energetic inhabitant while the train go north to the land where the snow lay. it come in one sweep almost it seem in one turn of the wheel cover the winter kill grass and turn the freeze pond that look so white under the shadow of lean tree into pool of ink. 
a the light close in a little wooden town white cloak and dumb slide past the window and the strong light of the car lamp fell upon a sleigh. the driver furred and muffle to his nose. turn the corner of a street. now the sleigh of a picture book however well one know it be altogether different from the thing in real life a mean of conveyance at a journey s end. but it be well not to be over curious in the matter for the same american who ha be tell you at length how he once follow a kilted scot soldier from chelsea to the tower out of pure wonder and curiosity at his bare knee and sporran will laugh at your interest in just a cutter. 
the staff of the train surely the great american nation would be lose if deprive of the ennoble society of brakeman conductor pullman car conductor negro porter and newsboy tell pleasant tale a they spread themselves at ease in the smoke compartment of snow up the line to montreal of desperate attack four engine together and a snow plough in front on drift thirty foot high and the pleasure of walk along the top of good wagon to brake a train with the thermometer thirty below freeze. it come cheap to kill men that way than to put air brake on freight car say the brakeman. 
thirty below freeze. it be inconceivable till one step out into it at midnight and the first shock of that clear still air take away the breath a doe a plunge into sea water. a walrus sit on a woolpack be our host in his sleigh and he wrap u in hairy goatskin coat cap that come down over the ear buffalo robe and blanket and yet more buffalo robe till we too look like walrus and move almost a gracefully. the night be a keen a the edge of a newly grind sword. breath freeze on the coat lapel in snow. the nose become without sensation and the eye weep bitterly because the horse be in a hurry to get home. and whirl through air at zero bring tear. but for the jingle of the sleigh bell the ride might have take place in a dream for there be no sound of hoof upon the snow the runner sigh a little now and again a they glide over an inequality and all the sheet hill round about be a dumb a death. only the connecticut river keep up it heart and a lane of black water through the pack ice. we could hear the stream worry round the heel of it small berg. elsewhere there be nothing but snow under the moon snow drift to the level of the stone fence or curl over their top in a lip of frost silver. snow bank high on either side of the road or lie heavy on the pine and the hemlock in the wood where the air seem by comparison a warm a a conservatory. it be beautiful beyond expression nature s bold sketch in black and white do with a japanese disregard of perspective and daringly alter from time to time by the restless pencil of the moon. 
in the morning the other side of the picture be reveal in the colour of the sunlight. there be never a cloud in the sky that rest on the snow line of the horizon a a sapphire on white velvet. hill of pure white or speckle and furred with wood rise up above the solid white level of the field and the sun riot over their embroidery till the eye ache. here and there on the expose slope the day s warmth the thermometer be nearly forty degree and the night s cold have make a bald and shin crust upon the snow. but the most part be soft powder stuff ready to catch the light on a thousand crystal and multiply it sevenfold. through this magnificence and think nothing of it a wood sledge draw by two shaggy red steer the unbarked log diamond dust with snow shoulder down the road in a cloud of frosty breath. it be the mark of inexperience in this section of the country to confound a sleigh which you use for rid with the sledge that be devote to heavy work. and it be i believe a still great sign of worthlessness to think that ox be drive a they be in most place by scientific twist of the tail. the driver with red mitten on his hand felt overstock that come up to his knee and perhaps a silvery gray coon skin coat on his back walk beside cry gee haw. even a be write in american story. and the speech of the driver explain many thing in regard to the dialect story which at it best be an infliction to many. now that i have hear the long unhurried drawl of vermont my wonder be not that the new england tale should be print in what for the sake of argument we will call english and it type but rather that they should not have appear in swedish or russian. our alphabet be too limit. this part of the country belong by law unknown to the unite state but which obtain all the world over to the new england story and the lady who write it. you feel this in the air a soon a you see the white paint wooden house leave out in the snow the austere schoolhouse and the people the men of the farm the woman who work a hard a they with it may be le enjoyment of life the other house well paint and quaintly roof that belong to judge this lawyer that and banker such an one. all power in the metropolis of six thousand folk over by the railway station. more acutely still do you realise the atmosphere when you read in the local paper announcement of chicken supper and church sociable to be give by such and such a denomination sandwich between paragraph of genial and friendly interest show that the countryside live. and without slay each other. on term of terrify intimacy. 
the folk of the old rock the dweller in the old house bear and raise hereabouts would not live out of the town for any consideration and there be insane people from the south men and woman from boston and the like who actually build house out in the open country two and even three mile from main street which be nearly yard long and the centre of life and population. with the stranger more particularly if they do not buy their grocery in the street which mean and be the town the town ha little to do. but it know everything and much more also that go on among them. their dress their cattle their view the manner of their child their manner towards their servant and every other conceivable thing be report digest discuss and rediscussed up and down main street. now the wisdom of vermont not be at all time equal to grasp all the problem of everybody else s life with delicacy sometimes make pathetic mistake and the town be set by the ear. you will see therefore that town of a certain size do not differ materially all the world over. the talk of the men of the farm be of their farm purchase mortgage and sale record right boundary line and road tax. it be in the middle of new zealand on the edge of the wild horse plain that i hear this talk last when a man and his wife twenty mile from the near neighbour sit up half the night discuss just the same thing that the men talk of in main street vermont u. s. a. 
there be one man in the state who be much exercise over this place. he be a farm hand raise in a hamlet fifteen or twenty mile from the near railway and greatly dare he ha wander here. the bustle and turmoil of main street the new glare of the electric light and the five storeyed brick business block frighten and distress him much. he ha take service on a farm well away from these delirious delight and say he i ve be offer $ a month to work in a bakery at new york. but you don t get me to no new york i ve see this place an it just scare me his strength be in the draw of hay and the feed of cattle. winter life on a farm doe not mean the comparative idleness that be so much write of. each hour seem to have it sixty minute of work. for the cattle be house and eat eternally. the colt must be turn out for their drink and the ice break for them if necessary. then ice must be store for the summer use and then the real work of haul log for firewood begin. new england depend for it fuel on the wood. the tree be blaze in the autumn just before the fall of the leaf fell late cut into four foot length and a soon a the friendly snow make sledge possible draw down to the woodhouse. afterwards the need of the farm can be attend to and a farm like an arch be never at rest. a little late will come maple sugar time when the stately maple be tap a the sap begin to stir and be ring with absurd little bucket. a cow be milk into a thimble give some idea of the disproportion. which be empty into cauldron. afterwards. this be the time of the sugar off party. you pour the boil syrup into tin full of fresh snow where it harden and you pretend to help and become very sticky and make love boy and girl together. even the introduction of patent sugar evaporators ha not spoil the love make. 
there be a certain scarcity of men to make love with. not so much in town which have their own manufactory and lie within a lover s sabbath day journey of new york but in the farm and village. the men have go away the young men be fight fortune further west and the woman remain remain for ever a woman must. on the farm when the child depart the old man and the old woman strive to hold thing together without help and the woman s portion be work and monotony. sometimes she go mad to an extent which appreciably affect statistic and be put down in census report. more often let u hope she dy. in the village where the necessity for heavy work be not so urgent the woman find consolation in the formation of literary club and circle and so gather to themselves a great deal of wisdom in their own way. that way be not altogether lovely. they desire fact and the knowledge that they be at a certain page in a german or an italian book before a certain time or that they have read the proper book in a proper way. at any rate they have something to do that seem a if they be do something. it ha be say that the new england story be cramp and narrow. even a far off view of the iron bind life whence they be draw justify the author. you can carve a nut in a thousand different way by reason of the hardness of the shell. 
twenty or thirty mile across the hill on the way to the green mountain lie some finish chapter of pitiful story a few score abandon farm start in a lean land hold fiercely so long a there be any one to work them and then leave on the hill side. beyond this desolation be wood where the bear and the deer still find peace and sometimes even the beaver forget that he be persecute and dare to build his lodge. these thing be tell me by a man who love the wood for their own sake and not for the sake of slaughter a quiet slow speak man of the west who come across the drift on show shoe and refrain from laugh when i borrow his foot gear and try to walk. the gigantic lawn tennis bat string with hide be not easy to manoeuvre. if you forget to keep the long heel down and trail in the snow you turn over and become a a man who fail into deep water with a life belt tie to his ankle. if you lose your balance do not attempt to recover it but drop half sit and half kneel over a large an area a possible. when you have master the wolf step can slide one shoe above the other deftly that be to say the sensation of paddle over a ten foot deep drift and take short cut by bury fence be worth the ankle ache. the man from the west interpret to me the sign on the snow show how a fox. this section of the country be full of fox and men shoot them because rid be impossible. leaf one kind of spoor walk with circumspection a become a thief and a dog who ha nothing to be ashamed of but widen his four leg and plunge another. how coon go to sleep for the winter and squirrel too and how the deer on the canada border trample down deep path that be call yard and be catch there by inquisitive men with camera who hold them by their tail when the deer have blunder into deep snow and so photograph their frighten dignity. he tell me of people also the manner and custom of new englanders here and how they blossom and develop in the far west on the new railway line when matter come very nearly to civil war between rival company race for the same cañon. how there be a country not very far away call caledonia populate by the scotch who can give point to a new englander in a bargain and how these same scotch american by birth name their township still after the city of their thrifty race. it be all a new and delightful a the steady scrunch of the snow shoe and the dazzle silence of the hill. 
beyond the very furthest range where the pine turn to a faint blue haze against the one solitary peak a real mountain and not a hill show like a gigantic thumbnail point heavenward. 
and that s monadnock say the man from the west. all the hill have indian name. you leave wantastiquet on your right come out of town. 
you know how it often happen that a word shuttle in and out of many year wake all sort of incongruous association. i have meet monadnock on paper in a shameless parody of emerson s style before ever style or verse have interest for me. but the word stick because of a rhyme in which one be. 
crown coeval with monadnock s crest and my wing extend touch the east and west. 
late the same word pursue on the same principle a that bless one mesopotamia lead me to and through emerson up to his poem on the peak itself the wise old giant busy with his sky affair who make u sane and sober and free from little thing if we trust him. so monadnock come to mean everything that be helpful heal and full of quiet and when i saw him half across new hampshire he do not fail. in that utter stillness a hemlock bough overweighted with snow come down a foot or two with a tire little sigh. the snow slide off and the little branch fly nod back to it fellow. 
for the honour of monadnock there be make that afternoon an image of snow of gautama buddha something too squat and not altogether equal on both side but with an imperial and reposeful waist. he face towards the mountain and presently some men in a wood sledge come up the road and face him. now the amaze comment of two vermont farmer on the nature and property of a swag belly god be worth hear. they be not trouble about his race for he be aggressively white. but round waist seem to be out of fashion in vermont. at least they say so with rare and curious oath. 
next day all the idleness and trifle be drown in a snowstorm that fill the hollow of the hill with whirl blue mist bow the branch of the wood till you duck but be powder all the same when you drive through and wipe out the sleigh track. mother nature be beautifully tidy if you leave her alone. she round off every angle break down every scarp and tuck the white bedclothes till not a wrinkle remain up to the chine of the spruce and the hemlock that would not go to sleep. 
now say the man of the west a we be drive to the station and ala. to new york all my snow track be go. but when that snow melt a week hence or a month hence they ll all come up again and show where i ve be. 
curious idea be it not. imagine a murder commit in the lonely wood a snowstorm that cover the track of the fly man before the avenger of blood ha bury the body and then a week late the withdrawal of the traitorous snow reveal step by step the path cain take the six inch dee trail of his snow shoe each step a dark disk on the white till the very end. 
there be so much so very much to write if it be worth while about that queer little town by the railway station with it life run to all outward seem a smoothly a the hack coupés on their sleigh mount and within disturb by the hatred and trouble and jealousy that vex the mind of all but the god. for instance no it be good to remember the lesson monadnock and emerson ha say zeus hate busy body and people who do too much. 
that there be such folk a long nasal drawl across main street attest. a farmer be unhitch his horse from a post opposite a store. he stand with the tie rope in his hand and give his opinion to his neighbour and the world generally but them there anderson they ain t get no notion of etikwette. 
across a continent. 
it be not easy to escape from a big city. an entire continent be wait to be traverse and for that reason we linger in new york till the city felt so homelike that it seem wrong to leave it. and further the more one study it the more grotesquely bad it grow bad in it pave bad in it street bad in it street police and but for the kindness of the tide would be bad than bad in it sanitary arrangement. no one a yet ha approach the management of new york in a proper spirit. that be to say regard it a the shiftless outcome of squalid barbarism and reckless extravagance. no one be likely to do so because reflection on the long narrow pig trough be construe a malevolent attack against the spirit and majesty of the great american people and lead to angry comparison. yet if all the street of london be permanently up and all the lamp permanently down this would not prevent the new york street take in a lump from be first cousin to a zanzibar foreshore or kin to the approach of a zulu kraal. gully hole rut cobble stone awry kerbstone rise from two to six inch above the level of the slatternly pavement. tram line from two to three inch above street level. build material scatter half across the street. lime board cut stone and ash barrel generally and generously everywhere. wheel traffic take it chance dray versus brougham at cross road. sway back pole whittle and unpainted. drunken lamp post with twist iron. and lastly a generous scatter of filth and more mix stink than the winter wind can carry away be matter which can be consider quite apart from the spirit of democracy or the future of this great and grow country. in any other land they would be hold to represent slovenliness sordidness and want of capacity. here it be explain not once but many time that they show the speed at which the city ha grow and the enviable indifference of her citizen to matter of detail. one of these day you be tell everything will be take in hand and put straight. the unvirtuous ruler of the city will be sweep away by a cyclone or a tornado or something big and boom of popular indignation. everybody will unanimously elect the right men who will justly earn the enormous salary that be at present be pay to inadequate alien for road sweeping and all will be well. at the same time the lawlessness ingrain by governor among the govern during the last thirty forty or it may be fifty year. the brutal levity of the public conscience in regard to public duty. the toughen and supple of public moral and the reckless disregard for human life breed by impotent law and foster by familiarity with needle accident and criminal neglect will miraculously disappear. if the law of cause and effect that control even the free people in the world say otherwise so much the bad for the law. america make her own. behind her stand the ghost of the most bloody war of the century cause in a peaceful land by long temporise with lawlessness by let thing slide by shiftlessness and blind disregard for all save the material need of the hour till the hour long conceive and let alone stand up full arm and men say here be an unforeseen crisis and kill each other in the name of god for four year. 
in a heathen land the three thing that be suppose to be the pillar of moderately decent government be regard for human life justice criminal and civil a far a it lie in man to do justice and good road. in this christian city they think lightly of the first their own paper their own speech and their own action prove it. buy and sell the second at a price openly and without shame. and be apparently content to do without the third. one would almost expect racial sense of humour would stay them from expect only praise slab lavish and slavish from the strange within their gate. but they do not. if he hold his peace they forge tribute to their own excellence which they put into his mouth thereby treat their own land which they profess to honour a a quack treat his pill. if he speak but you shall see for yourselves what happen then. and they cannot see that by untruth and invective it be themselves alone that they injure. 
the blame of their city evil be not altogether with the gentleman chiefly of foreign extraction who control the city. these find a people make to their hand a lawless breed ready to wink at one evasion of the law if they themselves may profit by another and in their rare leisure hour content to smile over the detail of a clever fraud. then say the culture american give u time. give u time and we shall arrive. the otherwise american who be aggressive straightway proceed to thrust a piece of half hang municipal botch work under the nose of the alien a a sample of perfect effort. there be nothing more delightful than to sit for a strictly limit time with a child who tell you what he mean to do when he be a man. but when that same child loud voice insistent unblushingly eager for praise but thin skin a the most morbid of hobbledehoy stand about all your way tell you the same story in the same voice you begin to yearn for something make and finish say egypt and a completely dead mummy. it be neither seemly nor safe to hint that the government of the large city in the state be a despotism of the alien by the alien for the alien temper with occasional insurrection of the decent folk. only the chinaman wash the dirty linen of other land. 
st. paul minnesota. 
yes it be very good to get away once more and pick up the old and ever fresh business of the vagrant loaf through new town learn in the manner of dog baby and perambulator half the world over and track the season by the up growth of flower in strange people s garden. st. paul stand at the barn door of the dakota and minnesota granary be all thing to all men except to minneapolis eleven mile away whom she hate and by whom she be patronise. she call herself the capital of the north west the new north west and her citizen wear not only the tall silk hat of trade but the soft slouch of the west. she talk in another tongue than the new yorker and sure sign that we be far across the continent her paper argue with the san francisco one over rate war and the competition of railway company. st. paul ha be establish many year and if one be reckless enough to go down to the business quarter one would hear all about her and more also. but the residential part of the town be the crown of it. in common with score of other city broad crown suburb use the word in the english sense that make the strange jealous. you get here what you do not get in the city well pave or asphalt road plant with tree and trim side walk stud with house of individuality not boorishly fence off from each other but stand each on it plot of well keep turf run down to the pavement. it be always sunday in these street of a morning. the cable car ha take the men down town to business the child be at school and the big dog three and a third to each absent child lie nose the winter kill grass and wonder when the shoot will make it possible for a gentleman to take his spring medicine. in the afternoon the child on tricycle stagger up and down the asphalt with due proportion of big dog at each wheel. the cable car come up hill begin to drop the men each at his own door the door of the house that he build for himself. though the architect incite him to that vile little attic tower and useless loggia. and naturally enough twilight bring the lover walk two by two along the very quiet way. you can tell from the house almost the exact period at which they be build whether in the jig saw day when if behove respectability to use unlovely turn rail and pierce gable end or during the colonial craze which mean white paint and flute pillar or in the late domestic era a most pleasant mixture that be of stain shingle hood dormer window cunning veranda and recess door. see these thing one begin to understand why the american visit england be impress with the old and not with the new. he be not much more than a hundred year ahead of the english in design comfort and economy and. this be most important. labour save appliance in his house. from newport to san diego you will find the same thing to day. 
last tribute of respect and admiration. one little brown house at the end of an avenue be shutter down and a doctor s buggy stand before it. on the door a large blue and white label say scarlet fever. oh most excellent municipality of st. paul. it be because of these little thing and not by rowdying and racket in public place that a nation become great and free and honour. in the car to night they will be talk wheat gird at minneapolis and sneer at duluth s demand for twenty foot of water from duluth to the atlantic matter of no great moment compare with those street and that label. 
a day late. 
five day ago there wasn t a foot of earth to see. it be just naturally cover with snow say the conductor stand in the rear car of the great northern train. he speak a though the snow have hide something priceless. here be the view. one railway track and a line of stagger telegraph pole end in a dot and a blur on the horizon. to the leave and right a sweep a it be of the sea one huge plain of corn land wait for the spring dot at rare interval with wooden farmhouse patent self reaper and binder almost a big a the house rick leave over from last year s abundant harvest and mottle here and there with black patch to show that the early plough have begin. the snow lie in a last few streak and whirl by the track. from sky line to sky line be black loam and prairie grass so dead that it seem a though no one year s sun would waken it. this be the granary of the land where the farmer who bear the burden of the state and who therefore ascribe last year s bumper crop to the direct action of the mckinley bill ha also to bear the ghastly monotony of earth and sky. he keep his head have many thing to attend to but his wife sometimes go mad a the woman do in vermont. there be little variety in nature s big wheat field. they say that when the corn be in the ear the wind chase shadow across it for mile on mile breed a it be a vertigo in those who must look and cannot turn their eye away. and they tell a nightmare story of a woman who live with her husband for fourteen year at an army post in just such a land a this. then they be transfer to west point among the hill over the hudson and she come to new york but the terror of the tall house grow upon her and grow till she go down with brain fever and the dread of her delirium be that the terrible thing would topple down and crush her. that be a true story. 
they work for harvest with steam plough here. how could mere horse face the endless furrow. and they attack the earth with toothed cog and spike engine that would be monstrous in the shop but here be only speckle on the yellow grass. even the locomotive be cow. a train of freight car be pass along a line that come out of the blue and go on till it meet the blue again. elsewhere the train would move off with a joyous vibrant roar. here it steal away down the vista of the telegraph pole with an awe whisper steal away and sink into the soil. 
then come a town deep in black mud a straggly inch thick plank town with dull red grain elevator. the open country refuse to be subdue even for a few score rod. each street end in the illimitable open and it be a though the whole houseless outside earth be race through it. towards even under a gray sky fly by an unframed picture of desolation. in the foreground a farm wagon almost axle deep in mud the mire drip from the slow turn wheel a the man flog the horse. behind him on a knoll of sodden soggy grass fence off by raw rail from the landscape at large be a knot of utterly uninterested citizen who have flog horse and raise wheat in their time but to day lie under chip and weather wear wooden headstone. surely burial here must be more awful to the newly make ghost than burial at sea. 
there be more snow a we go north and nature be hard at work break up the grind for the spring. the thaw ha fill every depression with a sullen gray black spate and out on the level the water lie six inch deep in stretch upon stretch a far a the eye can reach. every culvert be full and the break ice click against the wooden pier guard of the bridge. somewhere in this flatness there be a refresh jingle of spur along the car and a man of the canadian mount police swagger through with his black fur cap and the yellow tab aside his well fit overall and his good set up back. one want to shake hand with him because he be clean and doe not slouch nor spit trim his hair and walk a a man should. then a custom house officer want to know too much about cigar whisky and florida water. her majesty the queen of england and empress of india ha u in her keep. nothing ha happen to the landscape and winnipeg which be a it be a centre of distribution for emigrant stand up to her knee in the water of the thaw. the year ha turn in earnest and somebody be talk about the first ice shove at montreal or mile east. 
they will not run train on sunday at montreal and this be wednesday. therefore the canadian pacific make up a train for vancouver at winnipeg. this be worth remember because few people travel in that train and you escape any rush of tourist run westward to catch the yokohama boat. the car be your own and with it the service of the porter. our porter see thing be slack beguile himself with a guitar which give a triumphal and festive touch to the journey ridiculously out of keep with the view. for eight and twenty long hour do the bore locomotive trail u through a flat and hairy land powder rib and speckle with snow small snow that drive like dust shoot in the wind the land of assiniboia. now and again for no obvious reason to the outside mind there be a town. then the town give place to section so and so. then there be trail of the buffalo where he once walk in his pride. then there be a mound of white bone suppose to belong to the say buffalo and then the wilderness take up the tale. some of it be good grind but most of it seem to have fall by the wayside and the tedium of it be eternal. 
at twilight an unearthly sort of twilight there come another curious picture. thus a wooden town shut in among low treeless roll grind a call river that run unseen between scarped bank. barrack of a detachment of mount police a little cemetery where ex trooper rest a painfully formal public garden with pebble path and foot high fir tree a few line of railway building white woman walk up and down in the bitter cold with their bonnet off some indian in red blanket with buffalo horn for sale trail along the platform and not ten yard from the track a cinnamon bear and a young grizzly stand up with extend arm in their pen and beg for food. it be strange beyond anything that this bald tell can suggest open a door into a new world. the only commonplace thing about the spot be it name medicine hat which strike me instantly a the only possible name such a town could carry. this be that place which late become a town. but i have see it three year before when it be even small and be reach by me in a freight car ticket unpaid for. 
that next morning bring u the canadian pacific railway a one read about it. no pen of man could do justice to the scenery there. the guide book struggle desperately with description adapt for summer read of rush cascade lichened rock wave pine and snow cap mountain. but in april these thing be not there. the place be lock up dead a a freeze corpse. the mountain torrent be a bos of pale emerald ice against the dazzle of the snow. the pine stump be cap and hood with gigantic mushroom of snow. the rock be overlay five foot deep. the rock the fall tree and the lichen together and the dumb white lip curl up to the track cut in the side of the mountain and grin there fanged with gigantic icicle. you may listen in vain when the train stop for the least sign of breath or power among the hill. the snow ha smother the river and the great loop trestle run over what might be a lather of suds in a huge wash tub. the old snow near by be blacken and smirch with the smoke of locomotive and it dulness be grateful to ache eye. but the men who live upon the line have no consideration for these thing. at a halt place in a gigantic gorge wall in by the snow one of them reel from a tiny saloon into the middle of the track where half a dozen dog be chase a pig off the metal. he be beautifully and eloquently drink. he sing wave his hand and collapse behind a shunt engine while four of the lovely peak that the almighty ever mould look down upon him. the landslide that should have wipe that saloon into kindling ha miss it mark and ha strike a few mile down the line. one of the hillside move a little in dream of the spring and catch a pass freight train. our car grind cautiously by for the wreck engine ha only just come through. the decease engine be stand on it head in soft earth thirty or forty foot down the slide and two long car load with shingle be drop carelessly atop of it. it look so marvellously like a toy train fling aside by a child that one cannot realise what it mean till a voice cry any one kill. the answer come back no. all jump. and you perceive with a sense of personal insult that this slovenliness of the mountain be an affair which may touch your own sacred self. in which case. but the train be out on a trestle into a tunnel and out on a trestle again. it be here that every one begin to despair of the line when it be under construction because there seem to be no outlet. but a man come a a man always will and put a descent thus and a curve in this manner and a trestle so. and behold the line go on. it be in this place that we hear the story of the canadian pacific railway tell a men tell a many time repeat tale with exaggeration and omission but an impose tale none the le. in the begin when they would federate the dominion of canada it be british columbia who saw objection to come in and the prime minister of those day promise it for a bribe an iron band between tidewater and tidewater that should not break. then everybody laugh which seem necessary to the health of most big enterprise and while they be laugh thing be be do. the canadian pacific railway be give a bite of a line here and a bite of a line there and almost a much land a it want and the laughter be still go on when the last spike be drive between east and west at the very place where the drunken man sprawl behind the engine and the iron band run from tideway to tideway a the premier say and people in england say how interest and proceed to talk about the bloat army estimate. incidentally the man who tell u he have nothing to do with the canadian pacific railway explain how it pay the line to encourage immigration and tell of the arrival at winnipeg of a train load of scotch crofter on a sunday. they want to stop then and there for the sabbath they and all the little stock they have bring with them. it be the winnipeg agent who have to go among them argue. he be scotch too and they could not quite understand it. on the impropriety of dislocate the company s traffic. so their own minister hold a service in the station and the agent give them a good dinner cheer them in gaelic at which they weep and they go on to settle at moosomin where they live happily ever afterwards. of the manager the head of the line from montreal to vancouver our companion speak with reverence that be almost awe. that manager live in a palace at montreal but from time to time he would sally forth in his special car and whirl over his mile at mile an hour. the regulation pace be twenty two but he sell his neck with his head. few driver care for the honour of take him over the road. a mysterious man he be who carry the profile of the line in his head and more than that know intimately the possibility of back country which he have never see nor travel over. there be always one such man on every line. you can hear similar tale from driver on the great western in england or eurasian stationmaster on the big north western in india. then a fellow traveller speak a many others have do on the possibility of canadian union with the unite state. and his language be not the language of mr. goldwin smith. it be brutal in place. summarise it come to a pronounce objection to have anything to do with a land rotten before it be ripe a land with seven million negro a yet unwelded into the population their race type unevolved and rather more than crude notion on murder marriage and honesty. we ve pick up their way of politics he say mournfully. that come of live next door to them. but i don t think we re anxious to mix up with their other mess. they say they don t want u. they keep on say it. there s a nigger on the fence somewhere or they wouldn t lie about it. 
but doe it follow that they be lie. 
sure. i ve live among em. they can t go straight. there s some dam fraud at the back of it. 
from this belief he would not be shake. he have live among them perhaps have be best in trade. let them keep themselves and their manner and custom to their own side of the line he say. 
this be very sad and chill. it seem quite otherwise in new york where canada be represent a a ripe plum ready to fell into uncle sam s mouth when he should open it. the canadian ha no special love for england the mother of colony ha a wonderful gift for alienate the affection of her own household by neglect but perhaps he love his own country. we run out of the snow through mile upon mile of snow shed brace with twelve inch beam and plank with two inch plank. in one place a snow slide have catch just the edge of a shed and scoop it away a a knife scoop cheese. high up the hill men have build divert barrier to turn the drift but the drift have sweep over everything and lay five deep on the top of the shed. when we wake it be on the bank of the muddy fraser river and the spring be hurry to meet u. the snow have go. the pink blossom of the wild currant be open the bud alder stand misty green against the blue black of the pine the bramble on the burn stump be in tender leaf and every moss on every stone be this year s work fresh from the hand of the maker. the land open into clearing of soft black earth. at one station a hen have lay an egg and be tell the world about it. the world answer with a breath of real spring spring that flood the stuffy car and drive u out on the platform to snuff and sing and rejoice and pluck squashy green marsh flag and throw them at the colt and shout at the wild duck that rise from a jewel green lakelet. god be thank that in travel one can follow the year. this my spring i lose last november in new zealand. now i shall hold her fast through japan and the summer into new zealand again. 
here be the water of the pacific and vancouver. completely destitute of any decent defence. grow out of all knowledge in the last three year. at the railway wharf with never a gun to protect her lie the empress of india the japan boat and what more auspicious name could you wish to find at the end of one of the strong chain of empire. 
the edge of the east. 
the mist be clear off yokohama harbour and a hundred junk have their sail hoist for the morning breeze and the veil horizon be stipple with square blur of silver. an english man of war show blue white on then haze so new be the daylight and all the water lay out a smooth a the inside of an oyster shell. two child in blue and white their tan limb pink in the fresh air scull a marvellous boat of lemon hue wood and that be our fairy craft to the shore across the stillness and the mother o pearl level. 
there be way and way of enter japan. the best be to descend upon it from america and the pacific from the barbarian and the deep sea. come from the east the blaze of india and the insolent tropical vegetation of singapore dull the eye to half colour and little tone. it be at bombay that the smell of all asia board the ship mile off shore and hold the passenger s nose till he be clear of asia again. that be a violent and aggressive smell apt to prejudice the strange but kin none the le to the gentle and insinuate flavour that steal across the light air of the daybreak when the fairy boat go to shore a smell of very clean new wood. split bamboo wood smoke damp earth and the thing that people who be not white people eat a homelike and comfort smell. then follow on shore the sound of an eastern tongue that be beautiful or not a you happen to know it. the western race have many language but a crowd of european hear through close door talk with the western pitch and cadence. so it be with the east. a line of jinrickshaw cooly sit in the sun discourse to each other and it be a though they be welcome a return in speech that the listener must know a well a english. they talk and they talk but the ghost of familiar word would not grow any clear till presently the smell come down the open street again say that this be the east where nothing matter and trifle old a the tower of babel matter le than nothing and that there be old acquaintance wait at every corner beyond the township. great be the smell of the east. railway telegraph dock and gunboat cannot banish it and it will endure till the railway be dead. he who ha not smelt that smell ha never live. 
three year ago yokohama be sufficiently europeanise in it shop to suit the bad and wicked taste. to day it be still bad if you keep to the town limit. ten step beyond into the field all the civilisation stop exactly a it doe in another land a few thousand mile further west. the globe trot millionaire anxious to spend money with a hose on whatever catch their libertine fancy have explain to u aboard ship that they come to japan in haste advise by their guide book to do so l the land should be suddenly civilise between steamer sail and steamer sail. when they touch land they run away to the curio shop to buy thing which be prepare for them mauve and magenta and blue vitriol thing. by this time they have a murray under one arm and an electric blue eagle with a copperas beak and a yellow e pluribus unum embroider on apple green silk under the other. 
we be wise sit in a garden that be not ours but belong to a gentleman in slate colour silk who solely for the sake of the picture condescend to work a a gardener in which employ he be sweep delicately a welt of fall cherry blossom from under an azalea ache to burst into bloom. steep stone step of the colour that nature ripen through long winter lead up to this garden by way of clump of bamboo grass. you see the smell be right when it talk of meet old friend. half a dozen blue black pine be stand akimbo against a real sky not a fog blur nor a cloud bank nor a gray dish clout wrap round the sun but a blue sky. a cherry tree on a slope below them throw up a wave of blossom that break all creamy white against their foot and a clump of willow trail their pale green shoot in front of all. the sun send for an ambassador through the azalea bush a lordly swallow tail butterfly and his squire very like the flit chalk blue of the english down. the warmth of the east that go through not over the lazy body be add to the light of the east the splendid lavish light that clear but doe not bewilder the eye. then the new leaf of the spring wink like fat emerald and the load branch of cherry bloom grow transparent and glow a a hand glow hold up against flame. little warm sigh come up from the moist warm earth and the fall petal stir on the grind turn over and go to sleep again. outside beyond the foliage where the sunlight lie on the slate colour roof the ridge rice field beyond the roof and the hill beyond the rice field be all japan only all japan. and this that they call the old french legation be the garden of eden that most naturally drop down here after the fall. for some small hint of the beauty to be show late there be the roof of a temple ridge and flute with dark tile fling out casually beyond the corner of the bluff on which the garden stand. any other curve of the eaves would not have consort with the sweep of the pine branch. therefore this curve be make and be make be perfect. the congregation of the globe trotter be in the hotel scuffle for guide in order that they may be show the sight of japan which be all one sight. they must go to tokio they must go to nikko. they must surely see all that be to be see and then write home to their barbarian family that they be get use to the sight of bare brown leg. before this day be end they will all thank goodness have split headache and burn out eye. it be good to lie still and hear the grass grow to soak in the heat and the smell and the sound and the sight that come unasked. 
our garden overhang the harbour and by push aside one branch we look down upon a heavy sterned fish boat the straw gold mat of the deck house push back to show the perfect order and propriety of the housekeep that be go forward. the father fisher sit frog fashion be poke at a tiny box full of charcoal and the light white ash be blow back into the face of a largish japanese doll price two shilling and threepence in bayswater. the doll wake turn into a japanese baby something more valuable than money could buy a baby with a shave head and aimless leg. it crawl to the thing in the polish brown box be pick up just a it be ready to eat live coal and be set down behind a thwart where it drum upon a bucket address the firebox from afar. half a dozen cherry blossom slide off a bough and waver down to the water close to the japanese doll who in another minute will be overside in pursuit of these miracle. the father fisher ha it by the pink hind leg and this time it be tuck away all but the top knot out of sight among umber net and sepia cordage. be an oriental it make no protest and the boat scud out to join the little fleet in the off. 
then two sailor of a man of war come along the sea face lean over the canal below the garden spit and roll away. the sailor in port be the only superior man. to him all matter rare and curious be either them thing or them other thing. he doe not hurry himself he doe not seek adjective other than those which custom put into his mouth for all occasion. but the beauty of life penetrate his be insensibly till he get drink fall foul of the local policeman smite him into the near canal and dispose of the question of treaty revision with a hiccup. all the same jack say that he ha a grievance against the policeman who be pay a dollar for every stray seaman he bring up to the consular court for overstay his leave and so forth. jack say that the little fellow deliberately hind him from get back to his ship and then with devilish art and craft of wrestle trick there be about a hundred of em and they can throw you with every qualify one carry him to justice. now when jack be soften with drink he doe not tell lie. this be his grievance and he say that them blanket consul ought to know. they play into each other s hand and stop you at the hatoba the policeman do. the visitor who be neither a seaman nor drink cannot swear to the truth of this or indeed anything else. he move not only among fascinate scene and a lovely people but a he be sure to find out before he ha be a day ashore between stormy question. three year ago there be no question that be not go to be settle off hand in a blaze of paper lantern. the constitution be new. it ha a gray pale cover with a chrysanthemum at the back and a japanese tell me then now we have constitution same a other country and so it be all right. now we be quite civilise because of constitution. 
[a perfectly irrelevant story come to mind here. do you know that in madeira once they have a revolution which last just long enough for the national poet to compose a national anthem and then be put down. all that be leave of the revolt now be the song that you hear on the twangling nachettes_ the baby banjo of a moonlight night under the banana frond at the back of funchal. and the high pitch nasal refrain of it be consti tuci oun. ]. 
since that auspicious date it seem that the question have impertinently come up and the first and the last of them be that of treaty revision. say the japanese government only obey our law our new law that we have carefully compile from all the wisdom of the west and you shall go up country a you please and trade where you will instead of live cooped up in concession and be judge by consul. treat u a you would treat france or germany and we will treat you a our own subject. 
here a you know the matter rest between the two thousand foreigner and the forty million japanese a god send to all editor of tokio and yokohama and the despair of the newly arrive in whose nose remember be the smell of the east one and indivisible immemorial eternal and above all instructive. 
indeed it be only by walk out at least half a mile that you escape from the aggressive evidence of civilisation and come out into the rice field at the back of the town. here men with twist of blue and white cloth round their head be work knee deep in the thick black mud. the large field may be something le than two tablecloth while the small be say a speck of undercliff on to which it be hard to back a rickshaw wrest from the beach and grow it clump of barley within spray shoot of the wave. the field path be the tread top of the irrigate cut and the main road a wide a two perambulator abreast. from the upland the beautiful upland plant in exactly the proper place with pine and maple the grind come down in terrace pocket on pocket of rich earth to the level again and it would seem that every heavily thatch farmhouse be choose with special regard to the view. if you look closely when the people go to work you will see that a household spread itself over plot maybe a quarter of a mile apart. a revenue map of a village show that this scatteration be apparently design but the reason be not give. one thing at least be certain. the assessment of these patch can be no light piece of work just the thing in fact that would give employment to a large number of small and variegate government official any one of whom assume that he be of an oriental cast of mind might make the cultivator s life interest. i remember now a second time see place bring back thing that be altogether bury see three year ago the pile of government paper require in the case of one farm. they be many and systematic but the interest thing about them be the amount of work that they must have furnish to those who be neither cultivator nor treasury official. 
if one know japanese one could collogue with that gentleman in the straw hat and the blue loincloth who be chop within a sixteenth of an inch of his naked toe with the father and mother of all weed spud. his version of local taxation might be inaccurate but it would sure to be picturesque. fail his evidence be please to accept two or three thing that may or may not be fact of general application. they differ in a measure from statement in the book. the present land tax be nominally / per cent payable in cash on a three or a some say a five yearly settlement. but accord to certain official there ha be no settlement since. land lie fallow for a season pay the same tax a land in cultivation unless it be unproductive through flood or calamity. read earthquake here. the government tax be calculate on the capital value of the land take a measure of about square foot or a quarter of an acre a the unit. 
now one of the way of get at the capital value of the land be to see what the railway have pay for it. the very best rice land take the japanese dollar at three shilling be about £. s per acre. unirrigated land for vegetable grow be something over £. s. and forest £. s. a these be railway rate they may be fairly hold to cover large area. in private sale the price may reasonably be high. 
it be to be remember that some of the very best rice land will bear two crop of rice in the year. most soil will bear two crop the first be millet rape vegetable and so on sow on dry soil and ripen at the end of may. then the grind be at once prepare for the wet crop to be harvest in october or thereabouts. land tax be payable in two instalment. rice land pay between the st november and the middle of december and the st january and the last of february. other land pay between july and august and september and december. let u see what the average yield be. the gentleman in the sun hat and the loin cloth would shriek at the figure but they be approximately accurate. rice naturally fluctuate a good deal but it may be take in the rough at five japanese dollar. fifteen shilling. per koku of lb. wheat and maize of the first spring crop be worth about eleven shilling per koku. the first crop give nearly / koku per tau. the quarter acre unit of measurement aforesaid. or eighteen shilling per quarter acre or £. s. per acre. the rice crop at two koku or £. s. the quarter acre give £ an acre. total £. s. this be not altogether bad if you reflect that the land in question be not the very best rice land but ordinary no. at £. s. per acre capital value. 
a son ha the right to inherit his father s land on the father s assessment so long a it term run or when the term ha expire ha a prior claim a against any one else. part of the tax it be say lie by in the local prefecture s office a a reserve fund against inundation. yet and this seem a little confuse there be between five and seven other local provincial and municipal tax which can reasonably be apply to the same end. no one of these tax exceed a half of the land tax unless it be the local prefecture tax of / per cent. 
in the old day the people be tax or perhaps squeeze would be the good word to about one half of the produce of the land. there be those who may say that the present system be not so advantageous a it look. beforetime the farmer it be true pay heavily but only on their nominal holding. they could and often do hold more land than they be assess on. today a rigid bureaucracy survey every foot of their farm and upon every foot they have to pay. somewhat similar complaint be make still by the simple peasantry of india for if there be one thing that the oriental detest more than another it be the damnable western vice of accuracy. that lead to do thing by rule. still by the look of those terrace field where the water be lead so cunningly from level to level the japanese cultivator must enjoy at least one excitement. if the village up the valley tamper with the water supply there must surely be excitement down the valley argument protest and the break of head. 
the day of romance therefore be not all dead. 
* * * * *. 
this that follow happen on the coast twenty mile through the field from yokohama at kamakura that be to say where the great bronze buddha sit face the sea to hear the century go by. he ha be describe again and again his majesty his aloofness and every one of his dimension the smoky little shrine within him and the plume hill that make the background to his throne. for that reason he remain a he remain from the begin beyond all hope of description a it might be a visible god sit in the garden of a world make new. they sell photograph of him with tourist stand on his thumb nail and apparently any brute of any gender can scrawl his or it ignoble name over the inside of the massive bronze plate that build him up. think for a moment of the indignity and the insult. imagine the ancient orderly garden with their clip tree shorn turf and silent pond smoke in the mist that the hot sun soak up after rain and the green bronze image of the teacher of the law waver there a it half seem through incense cloud. the earth be all one censer and myriad of frog be make the haze ring. it be too warm to do more than to sit on a stone and watch the eye that have see all thing see no more the down drop eye the forward droop of the head and the colossal simplicity of the fold of the robe over arm and knee. thus and in no other fashion do buddha sit in the old day when ananda ask question and the dreamer begin to dream of the life that lay behind him ere the lip move and a the chronicle say. he tell a tale. this would be the way he begin for dreamer in the east tell something the same sort of tale to day. long ago when devadatta be king of benares there live a virtuous elephant a reprobate ox and a king without understand. and the tale would end after the moral have be draw for ananda s benefit. now the reprobate ox be such an one and the king be such another but the virtuous elephant be i myself ananda. thus then he tell the tale in the bamboo grove and the bamboo grove be there to day. little blue and gray and slate rob figure pas under it shadow buy two or three joss stick disappear into the shrine that be the body of the god come out smile and drift away through the shrubbery. a fat carp in a pond suck at a fall leaf with just the sound of a wicked little worldly kiss. then the earth steam and steam in silence and a gorgeous butterfly full six inch from wing to wing cut through the steam in a zigzag of colour and flicker up to the forehead of the god. and buddha say that a man must look on everything a illusion even light and colour the time wear bronze of metal against blue green of pine and pale emerald of bamboo the lemon sash of the girl in the cinnamon dress with coral pin in her hair lean against a block of weather bleach stone and last the spray of blood red azalea that stand on the pale gold mat of the tea house beneath the honey colour thatch. to overcome desire and covetousness of mere gold which be often very vilely design that be conceivable. but why must a man give up the delight of the eye colour that rejoice light that cheer and line that satisfy the innermost deep of the heart. ah if the bodhisat have only see his own image. 
our overseas men. 
all thing consider there be only two kind of men in the world those that stay at home and those that do not. the second be the most interest. some day a man will bethink himself and write a book about the breed in a book call the book of the overseas club for it be at the clubhouse all the way from aden to yokohama that the life of the outside men be best see and their talk be best hear. a strong family liken run through both building and member and a large and careless hospitality be the note. there be always the same open doored high ceiled house with mat on the floor. the same come and go of dark skin servant and the same assembly of men talk horse or business in raiment that would fatally scandalise a london committee among file of newspaper from a fortnight to five week old. the life of the outside men include plenty of sunshine and a much air a may be stir. at the cape where the dutch housewife distil and sell the very potent vanderhum and the absurd home make hansom cab waddle up and down the yellow dust of adderley street be the member of the big import and export firm the ship and insurance office inventor of mine and exploiter of new territory with now and then an officer stray from india to buy mule for the government a government house aide de camp a sprinkle of the officer of the garrison tan skipper of the union and castle line and naval men from the squadron at simon s town. here they talk of the sin of cecil rhodes the insolence of natal the beauty or otherwise of the solid boer vote and the date of the steamer. the argot be dutch and kaffir and every one can hum the national anthem that begin pack your kit and trek johnny bowleg. in the stately hongkong clubhouse which be to the further what the bengal club be to the near east you meet much the same gather minus the mine speculator and plus men whose talk be of tea silk short and shanghai pony. the speech of the outside men at this point become fearfully mix with pidgin english and local chinese term round with corrupt portuguese. at melbourne in a long verandah give on a grass plot where laugh jackass laugh very horribly sit wool king premier and breeder of horse after their kind. the old men talk of the day of the eureka stockade and the young of shear war in north queensland while the traveller move timidly among them wonder what under the world every third word mean. at wellington overlook the harbour. all right mind club should command the sea. another and yet a like sort of men speak of sheep the rabbit the land court and the ancient heresy of sir julius vogel. and their more expressive sentence borrow from the maori. and elsewhere and elsewhere and elsewhere among the outside men it be the same the same mixture of every trade call and profession under the sun. the same clash of conflict interest touch the uttermost part of the earth. the same intimate and sometimes appal knowledge of your neighbour s business and shortcoming. the same large palm hospitality and the same interest on the part of the young men in the leg of a horse. decidedly it be at the overseas club all the world over that you get to know some little of the life of the community. london be egoistical and the world for her end with the four mile cab radius. there be no provincialism like the provincialism of london. that big slack water coat with the drift and rubbish of a thousand men s thought esteem itself the open sea because the wave of all the ocean break on her border. to those in her midst she be terribly impose but they forget that there be more than one kind of imposition. look back upon her from ten thousand mile when the mail be just in at the overseas club and she be wondrous tiny. nine tenth of her news so vital so epoch make over there lose it significance and the rest be a the scuffle of ghost in a back attic. 
here in yokohama the overseas club ha two mail and four set of paper english french german and american a suit the variety of it constitution and the verandah by the sea where the big telescope stand be a perpetual feast of the pentecost. the population of the club change with each steamer in harbour for the sea captain swing in be meet with hello. where do you come from. and mix at the bar and billiard table for their appoint time and go to sea again. the white paint warship supply their contingent of member also and there be wonderful men mine of most fascinate adventure who have an interest in seal brig that go to the kurile island and somehow get into trouble with the russian authority. consul and judge of the consular court meet men over on leave from the china port or it may be manila and they all talk tea silk bank and exchange with it fix resident. everything be always a bad a it can possibly be and everybody be on the verge of ruin. that be why when they have decide that life be no long worth live they go down to the skittle alley to commit suicide. from the outside when a cool wind blow among the paper and there be a sound of smash ice in an inner apartment and every third man be talk about the approach race the life seem to be a desirable one. what more could a man need to make him happy. say the passer by. a perfect climate a lovely country plenty of pleasant society and the polite people on earth to deal with. the resident smile and invite the passer by to stay through july and august. further he press him to do business with the polite people on earth and to continue so do for a term of year. thus the traveller perceive beyond doubt that the resident be prejudice by the very fact of his residence and give it a his mature opinion that japan be a faultless land mar only by the presence of the foreign community. and yet let u consider. it be the foreign community that ha make it possible for the traveller to come and go from hotel to hotel to get his passport for inland travel to telegraph his safe arrival to anxious friend and generally enjoy himself much more than he would have be able to do in his own country. government and gunboat may open a land but it be the men of the overseas club that keep it open. their reward. not alone in japan. be the bland patronage or the scarcely veil contempt of those who profit by their labour. it be hopeless to explain to a traveller who ha be ohayoed into half a dozen shop and sayonaraed out of half a dozen more and politely cheat in each one that the japanese be an oriental and therefore embarrassingly economical of the truth. that s his politeness say the traveller. he doe not wish to hurt your feeling. love him and treat him like a brother and he ll change. to treat one of the most secretive of race on a brotherly basis be not very easy and the natural politeness that enter into a sign and seal contract and undulate out of it so soon a it doe not sufficiently pay be more than embarrass. it be almost annoy. the want of fixity or commercial honour may be due to some natural infirmity of the artistic temperament or to the manner in which the climate ha affect and his ruler ha rule the man himself for untold century. 
those who know the east know where the system of squeeze which be commission run through every transaction of life from the sale of a groom s place upward where the woman walk behind the man in the street and where the peasant give you for the distance to the next town a many or a few mile a he think you will like that these thing must be so. those who do not know will not be persuade till they have live there. the overseas club put up it collective nose scornfully when it hear of the new and regenerate japan spring to life since the seventy. it grin with shame be it write at an imperial diet model on the german plan and a code napoléon à la japonaise. it be so far behind the new era a to doubt that an oriental country ride by etiquette of the stern and social distinction almost a hard a those of caste can be turn out to western gauge in the compass of a very young man s fife. and it must be prejudice because it be daily and hourly in contact with the japanese except when it can do business with the chinaman whom it prefer. be there ever so disgraceful a club. 
just at present a crisis full blow a a chrysanthemum ha develop in the imperial diet. both house accuse the government of improper interference this japanese for plenty stick and some bank note at the recent election. they then do what be equivalent to pass a vote of censure on the ministry and refuse to vote government measure. so far the wild advocate of representative government could have desire nothing good. afterwards thing take a distinctly oriental turn. the ministry refuse to resign and the mikado prorogue the diet for a week to think thing over. the japanese paper be now at issue over the event. some say that representative government imply party government and others swear at large. the overseas club say for the most part skittle. 
it be a picturesque situation one that suggest romance and extravaganza. thus imagine a dream court intrench behind a triple line of moat where the lotus bloom in summer a court whose out fringe be aggressively european but whose heart be japan of long ago where a dream king sit among some wife or other thing amuse from time to time with magic lantern show and perform flea a holy king whose sanctity be use to conjure with and who twice a year give garden party where every one must come in top hat and frock coat. round this court waver between the splendour of the sleep and the variety show of the crystal palace place in furious but carefully veil antagonism the fragment of newly shatter caste their natural oriental eccentricity overlay with borrow western notion. imagine now a large and hungry bureaucracy french in it fretful insistence on detail where detail be of no earthly moment oriental in it stress on etiquette and punctillo recruit from a military caste accustom for age past to despise alike farmer and trader. this caste we will suppose be more or le imperfectly control by a syndicate of three clan which supply their own nominee to the ministry. these be adroit versatile and unscrupulous men hamper by no western prejudice in favour of carry any plan to completion. through and at the bid of these men the holy monarch act. and the act be wonderful. to criticise these act exist a wild cat press liable to suppression at any moment a morbidly sensitive to outside criticism a the american and almost a childishly untruthful fungoid in the swiftness of it growth and pitiable in it unseasoned rashness. backer of this press in it wild moment lawless ignorant sensitive and vain be the student class educate in the main at government expense and a thorn in the side of the state. judge without train handle law without precedent and new measure be pass and abandon with almost inconceivable levity. out of the welter of class and interest that be not those of the common folk be evolve the thing call japanese policy that ha the proportion and the perspective of a japanese picture. 
finality and stability be absent from it council. to day for reason none can explain it be pro foreign to the verge of servility. to morrow for reason equally obscure the pendulum swing back and the student be heave mud at the foreigner in the street. vexatious irresponsible incoherent and above all cheaply mysterious be the rule of the land stultify by intrigue and counter intrigue chequer with futile reform begin on european line and light heartedly throw aside. stud a a bower bird s run be stud with shell and shin pebble with plagiarism from half the world an operetta of administration wherein the shadow of the king among his wife samurai policeman doctor who have study under pasteur kid gloved cavalry officer from st. cyr judge with university degree harlot with fiddle newspaper correspondent master of the ancient ceremony of the land pay member of the diet secret society that borrow the knife and the dynamite of the irish son of dispossess daimios return from europe and wait for what may turn up with minister of the syndicate who have wrench japan from her repose of twenty year ago circle flicker shift and reform in bewilder ring round the foreign resident. be the extravaganza complete. 
somewhere in the background of the stage be the people of the land of whom a very limit proportion enjoy the privilege of representative government. whether in the past few year they have learn what the thing mean or learn have the least intention of make any use of it be not clear. meantime the game of government go forward a merrily a a game of pus in the corner with the additional joy that not more than half a dozen men know who be control it or what in the wide world it intend to do. in tokio live the steadily diminish staff of european employ by the emperor a engineer railway expert professor in the college and so forth. before many year they will all be dispense with and the country will set forth among the nation alone and on it own responsibility. 
in fifty year then from the time that the intrusive american first break her peace japan will experience her new birth and reorganise from sandal to top knot play the samisen in the march of modern progress. this be the great advantage of be bear into the new era when individual and community alike can get something for nothing pay without work education without effort religion without think and free government without slow and bitter toil. 
the overseas club a ha be say be behind the spirit of the age. it ha to work for what it get and it doe not always get what it work for. nor can it member take ship and go home when they please. imagine for a little the content frame of mind that be breed in a man by the perpetual contemplation of a harbour full of steamer a a piccadilly cab rank of hansom. the weather be hot we will suppose. something ha go wrong with his work that day or his child be not look so well a might be. pretty tile bungalow bower in rose and wistaria do not console him and the voice of the polite people on earth jar sorely. he know every soul in the club ha thoroughly talk out every subject of interest and would give half a year s oh five year pay for one lung fill breath of air that ha life in it one sniff of the hay grass or half a mile of muddy london street where the muffin bell tinkle in the four o clock fog. then the big liner move out across the star blue of the bay. so and so and such an one both friend be go home in her and some one else go next week by the french mail. he and he alone it seem to him must stay on. and it be so maddeningly easy to go for every one save himself. the boat s smoke dy out along the horizon and he be leave alone with the warm wind and the white dust of the bund. now japan be a good place a place that men swear by and live in for thirty year at a stretch. there be china port a week s sail to the westward where life be really hard and where the sight of the restless ship hurt very much indeed. tourist and you who travel the world over be very gentle to the men of the overseas club. remember that unlike yourselves they have not come here for the good of their health and that the return ticket in your wallet may possibly colour your view of their land. perhaps it would not be altogether wise on the strength of much kindness from japanese official to recommend that these your countryman be hand over lock stock and barrel to a people that be begin to experiment with fresh draft half graft code which do not include jury to a system that doe not contemplate a free press to a suspicious absolutism from which there be no appeal. truly it might be interest but a surely it would begin in farce and end in tragedy that would leave the polite people on earth in no case to play at civilise government for a long time to come. in his concession where he be an apologetic and much sit upon importation the foreign resident doe no harm. he doe not always sue for money due to him on the part of a japanese. once outside those limit free to move into the heart of the country it would only be a question of time a to where and when the trouble would begin. and in the long run it would not be the foreign resident that would suffer. the imaginative eye can see the most unpleasant possibility from a general overrun of japan by the chinaman who be far the most important foreign resident to the shell of tokio by a joyous and bound democracy anxious to vindicate her national honour and to learn how her newly make navy work. 
but there be score of argument that would confute and overwhelm this somewhat gloomy view. the statistic of japan for instance be a beautiful and fit a neatly a the woodwork of her house. by these it would be possible to prove anything. 
some earthquake. 
a radical member of parliament at tokio ha just get into trouble with his constituent and they have send him a priceless letter of reproof. among other thing they point out that a politician should not be a waterweed which wobble hither and thither accord to the motion of the stream. nor should he like a ghost without leg drift along before the wind. your conduct they say ha be both of a waterweed and a ghost and we purpose in a little time to give you proof of our true japanese spirit. that member will very likely be mob in his rickshaw and prod to inconvenience with sword stick. for the constituency be most enlighten. but how in the world can a man under these side behave except a a waterweed and a ghost. it be in the air the wobble and the legless drift an energetic tourist would have go to hakodate see ainos at sapporo ride across the northern island under the gigantic thistle catch salmon look in at vladivostock and do half a hundred thing in the time that one lazy loafer ha waste watch the barley turn from green to gold the azalea blossom and burn out and the spring give way to the warm rain of summer. now the iris ha take up the blazonry of the year and the tide of the tourist ebb westward. 
the permanent resident be begin to talk of hill place to go to for the hot weather and all the available house in the resort be let. in a little while the men from china will be come over for their holiday but just at present we be in the thick of the tea season and there be no time to waste on frivolity. pack be a valid excuse for anything from forget a dinner to decline a tennis party and the temper of husband be judge leniently. all along the sea face be an inspire smell of the fine new mow hay and canal be full of boat load up with the box jostle down to the harbour. at the club men say rude thing about the arrival of the mail. there never be a post office yet that do not rejoice in knock a man s sabbath into flinders. a fair office day s work may begin at eight and end at six or if the mail come in at midnight. there be no overtime or eight hour baby talk in tea. yonder be the ship. here be the stuff and behind all be the american market. the rest be your own affair. 
the narrow street be block with the wain bring down in box of every shape and size the up country rough leaf. some one must take delivery of these thing find room for them in the pack warehouse and sample them before they be blend and go to the fire. 
more than half the elaborate process be lose work so far a the quality of the stuff go. but the market insist on a good look leaf with polish face and curl to it and in this a in other business the call of the market be the law. the factory floor be make slippery with the tread of bare foot cooly who shout a the tea whirl through it transformation. the over note to the clamour an uncanny thing too be the soft rustle down of the tea itself stack in heap carry in basket dump through chute rise and fall in the long trough where it be polish and disappear at last into the heart of the fire machine always this insistent whisper of move dead leaf. steam sieve sift it into grade with jarrings and thumping that make the floor quiver and the thunder of steam gear be always at it heel. but it continue to mutter unabashed till it be riddle down into the big foil line box and lie at peace. 
a few day ago the industry suffer a check which last not more than two minute lose several hundred pound of hand fire tea. it be something after this way. into the stillness of a hot stuffy morning come an unpleasant noise a of battery of artillery charge up all the road together and at least one bewilder sleeper wake saw his empty boot where they sit and play toccata stately at the clavicord. it be the washstand really but the effect be awful. then a clock fell and a wall crack and heavy hand catch the house by the roof pole and shake it furiously. to preserve an equal mind when thing be hard be good but he who ha not fumble desperately at bolt jalousie that will not open while a whole room be be toss in a blanket doe not know how hard it be to find any sort of mind at all. the end of the terror be inadequate a rush into the still heavy outside air only to find the servant in the garden giggle. the japanese would giggle through the day of judgment. and to learn that the earthquake be over. then come the news swift bear from the business quarter below the hill that the cooly of certain factory have flee shriek at the first shock and that all the tea in the pan be burn to a crisp. that certainly be some consolation for undignified panic. and there remain the hope that a few tall chimney up the line at tokio would have collapse. they stand firm however and the local paper use to this kind of thing merely speak of the shock a severe. earthquake be demoralise. but they bring out all the weakness of human nature. first be downright dread. the stage of only let me get into the open and i ll reform then the impulse to send news of the most terrible shock of modern time fly east and west among the cable. do not your own hair stand straight on end and therefore must not everybody else s have do likewise. last a fall humanity pick itself together come the cry of the mean little soul. what. be that all. i wasn t frighten from the begin. 
it be wholesome and tonic to realise the powerlessness of man in the face of these little accident. the heir of all the age the annihilator of time and space who politely doubt the existence of his maker hear the roof beam crack and strain above him and scuttle about like a rabbit in a stopper warren. if the shock endure for twenty minute the annihilator of time and space must camp out under the blue and hunt for his dead among the rubbish. give a violent convulsion. only just such a slip of stratum a carelessly pile volume will accomplish in a book case. and behold the heir of all the age be stark rave mad a brute among the dishevel hill. set a hundred of the world s great spirit men of fix principle high aim resolute endeavour enormous experience and the modesty that these attribute bring set them to live through such a catastrophe a that which wipe out nagoya last october and at the end of three day there would remain few whose soul might be call their own. 
so much for yesterday s shock. to day there ha come another. and a most comprehensive affair it be. it ha break nothing unless maybe an old heart or two crack late on. and the wise people in the settlement be say that they predict it from the first. none the le a an earthquake it deserve record. 
it be a very rainy afternoon. all the street be full of gruelly mud and all the business men be at work in their office when it begin. a knot of chinaman be study a close door from whose further side come a most unpleasant sound of bolt and lock up. the notice on the door be interest. with deep regret do the manager of the new oriental bank corporation limit. most decidedly limit. announce that on telegraphic order from home he have suspend payment. say one chinaman to another in pidgin japanese. it be shut and go away. the noise of bar up continue the rain fell and the notice star down the wet street. that be all. there must have be two or three men pass by to whom the announcement mean the loss of every penny of their saving comfort knowledge to digest after tiffin. in london of course the failure would not mean so much. there be many bank in the city and people would have have warn. here bank be few people be dependent on them and this news come out of the sea unheralded an evil bear with all it teeth. 
after the crash of a burst shell every one who can pick himself up brush the dirt off his uniform and try to make a joke of it. then some one whip a handkerchief round his hand a splinter ha tear it and another find warm streak run down his forehead. then a man overlook till now and past help groan to the death. everybody perceive with a start that this be no time for laughter and the dead and wound be attend to. 
even so at the overseas club when the men get out of office. the broker have tell them the news. in file the english and american and german and french and here s a pretty mess. they say one and all. many of them be hit but like good men they do not say how severely. 
ah. say a little p. and o. official wag his head sagaciously. he have lose a thousand dollar since noon. it s all right now. they re try to make the best of it. in three or four day we shall hear more about it. i mean to draw my money just before i go down coast but curiously enough it be the same story throughout the club. everybody have intend to withdraw and nearly everybody have not do so. the manager of a bank which have not fail be explain how in his opinion the crash have come about. this be also very human. it help none. enter a lean american throw back his waterproof all drip with the rain. his face be calm and peaceful. boy whisky and soda he say. 
how much haf you losd. say a teuton bluntly. eight fifty reply the son of george washington sweetly. don t see how that prevent me have a drink. my glass sirr. he continue an interrupt whistle of i owe ten dollar to o grady. which he very probably do. and his countenance depart not from it serenity. if there be anything that one love an american for it be the way he stand certain kind of punishment. an englishman and a heavy loser be be chaff by a scotchman whose account at the japan end of the line have be a trifle overdraw. true he would lose in england but the think of the few dollar save here cheer him. 
more men enter sit down by table stand in group or remain apart by themselves think with knit brow. one must think quickly when one s bill be fall due. the murmur of voice thicken and there be no rumble in the skittle alley to interrupt it. everybody know everybody else at the overseas club and everybody sympathise. a man pass stiffly and some one of a group turn to ask lightly hit old man. like hell he say and go on bite his unlit cigar. another man be tell slowly and somewhat bitterly how he have expect one of his child to join him out here and how the passage have be pay with a draft on the o. b. c. but now. there_ lady and gentleman be where it hurt this little suspension out here. it destroy plan pretty one hop for and pray over maybe for year. it knock pleasant domestic arrangement galleywest over and above all the mere ruin that it cause. the curious thing in the talk be that there be no abuse of the bank. the men be in the eastern trade themselves and they know. it be the yokohama manager and the clerk throw out of employment. connection with a break bank by the way go far to ruin a young man s prospect. for whom they be sorry. we re do ourselves well this year say a wit grimly. one free shoot case one thunder libel case and a bank smash. show off pretty before the globe trotter aren t we. 
gad think of the chap at sea with letter of credit. eh. they ll land and get the best room at the hotel and find they re penniless say another. 
never mind the globe trotter say a third. look near home. this doe for so and so and so and so and so and so all old men. and every penny of theirs go. poor devil. 
that remind me of some one else say yet another voice his wife s at home too. whew. and he whistle drearily. so do the tide of voice run on till men get to talk over the chance of a dividend they go to the bank of england drawl an american and the bank of england let them down. say their security weren t good enough. 
great scott. a hand come down on a table to emphasise the remark i sail half way up the mediterranean once with a bank of england director. wish i d tip him over the rail and lower him a boat on his own security if it be good enough. 
bar s go. the o. b. c. don t reply the american blow smoke through his nose. this business look de ci ded ly prob le mat i cal. what at. 
oh they ll pay the depositor in full. don t you fret say a man who have lose nothing and be anxious to console. 
i m a shareholder say the american and smoke on. 
the rain continue to fall and the umbrella drip in the rack and the wet men come and go circle round the central fact that it be a bad business till the day a be most fit shut down in drizzle darkness. there be a refresh sense of brotherhood in misfortune in the little community that have just be electrocute and do not want any more shock. all the pain that in england would be take home to be bear in silence and alone be here bulk a it be and face in line of company. surely the christian of old must have fight much good when they meet the lion by fifty at a time. 
at last the men depart. the bachelor to cast up account by themselves. there should be some good pony for sale shortly. and the marry men to take counsel. may heaven help him whose wife doe not stand by him now. but the woman of the overseas settlement be a thorough a the men. there will be tear for plan forgo the change of the little one school and elder child s career unpleasant letter to be write home and more unpleasant one to be receive from relative who tell you so from the first. there will be pinch too and strait of which the outside world will know nothing but the woman will pull it through smile. 
beautiful indeed be the operation of modern finance especially when anything go wrong with the machine. to night there will be trouble in india among the ceylon planter the calcutta jute and the bombay cotton broker besides the little household of small bank saving. in hongkong singapore and shanghai there will be trouble too and goodness only know what wreck at cheltenham bath st. leonard torquay and the other camp of the retire army officer. they be lucky in england who know what happen when it happen but here the people be at the wrong end of the cable and the situation be not good. only one thing seem certain. there be a notice on a shut door in the wet and by virtue of that notice all the money that be theirs yesterday be go away and it may never come back again. so all the work that win the money must be do over again. but some of the people be old and more be tire and all be dishearten. it be a very sorrowful little community that go to bed to night and there must be a sad one the world over. let it be write however that of the section under fire here. and some be cruelly hit. no man whine or whimper or break down. there be no chance of fight. it be bitter defeat but they take it stand. 
half a dozen picture. 
some men when they grow rich store picture in a gallery live their friend envy them and after death the genuineness of the collection be dispute under the disperse hammer. 
a good way be to spread your picture over all earth. visit them a fate allow. then none can steal or deface nor any reverse of fortune force a sale. sunshine and tempest warm and ventilate the gallery for nothing and in spite of all that ha be say of her crudeness nature be not altogether a bad frame maker. the knowledge that you may never live to see an especial treasure twice teach the eye to see quickly while the light last. and the possession of such a gallery breed a very fine contempt for paint show and the smeary thing that be call picture. 
in the north pacific to the right hand a you go westward hang a small study of no particular value a compare with some others. the mist be down on an oily stretch of wash out sea. through the mist the bat wing of a seal schooner be just indicate. in the foreground all but leap out of the frame an open rowboat paint the raw blue and white ride up over the shoulder of a swell. a man in blood red jersey and long boot all shin with moisture stand at the bow hold up the carcase of a silver belly sea otter from whose pelt the wet drip in moonstone. now the artist who could paint the silver wash of the mist the wriggle treacly reflection of the boat and the raw red wrist of the man would be something of a workman. 
but my gallery be in no danger of be copy at present. three year since i meet an artist in the stony bed of a brook between a line of grave lichened godlings and a flame bank of azalea swear horribly. he have be try to paint one of my picture nothing more than a big water wear rock tufted with flower and a snow cap hill for background. most naturally he fail because there happen to be absolutely no perspective in the thing and he be pull the line about to make some for home consumption. no man can put the content of a gallon jar into a pint mug. the protest of all uncomfortably crowd mug since the world begin have settle that long ago and have give u the work theory devise by imperfect instrument for imperfect instrument which be call rule of art. 
luckily those who paint my gallery be bear before man. therefore my picture instead of be box up by lumber bar of gold be dispose generously between latitude equinox monsoon and the like and make all allowance for an owner s partiality they be really not so bad. 
down in the south where the ship never go between the heel of new zealand and the south pole there be a sea piece show a steamer try to come round in the trough of a big beam sea. the wet light of the day s end come more from the water than the sky and the wave be colourless through the haze of the rain all but two or three blind sea horse swing out of the mist on the ship s drip weather side. a lamp be light in the wheel house. so one patch of yellow light fall on the green paint piston of the steer gear a they snatch up the rudder chain. a big sea ha get home. her stern fly up in the lather of a free screw and her deck from poop to the break of the foc s le go under in gray green water level a a mill race except where it spout up above the donkey engine and the store derrick boom. forward there be nothing but this glare. aft the interrupt wake drive far to leeward a cut kite string drop across the sea. the sole thing that ha any rest in the turmoil be the jewel unwinking eye of an albatross who be beat across wind leisurely and unconcerned almost within hand s touch. it be the monstrous egotism of that eye that make the picture. by all the rule of art there should be a lighthouse or a harbour pier in the background to show that everything will end happily. but there be not and the red eye doe not care whether the thing beneath it still wing stay or stave. 
the sister panel hang in the indian ocean and tell a story but be none the bad for that. here you have hot tropical sunlight and a foreshore clothe in stately palm run out into a still and steamy sea burnish steel blue. along the foreshore quest a a wound beast quest for lair hurry a load steamer never build for speed. consequently she tear and thresh the water to piece and pile it under her nose and cannot put it under her cleanly. coir colour cargo bale be stack round both mast and her deck be cram and double cram with dark skin passenger from the foc s le where they interfere with the crew to the stern where they hamper the wheel. 
the funnel be paint blue on yellow give her a holiday air a little out of keep with the yellow and black cholera flag at her main. she dare not stop. she must not communicate with any one. there be leprous streak of lime wash trickle down her plate for a sign of this. so she thresh on down the glorious coast she and her swarm passenger with the sickness that destroyeth in the noonday eat out her heart. 
yet another the pick of all the east room before we have do with blue water. most of the nation of the earth be at issue under a stretch of white awning above a crowd deck. the cause of the dispute a deep copper bowl foil of rice and fry onion be upset in the foreground. malay lascar hindu chinese japanese burmans the whole gamut of racetints from saffron to tar black be twist and writhe round it while their vermilion cobalt amber and emerald turban and head cloth be lie underfoot. press against the yellow ochre of the iron bulwark to leave and right be frighten woman and child in turquoise and isabella colour clothe. they be half protect by mound of upset bed straw mat red lacquer box and plait bamboo trunk mix up with tin plate brass and copper hukas_ silver opium pipe chinese play card and property enough to drive half a dozen artist wild. in the centre of the crowd of furious half naked men the fat bare back of a burman tattoo from collar bone to waist cloth with writhe pattern of red and blue devil hold the eye first. it be a wicked back. beyond it be the flicker of a malay kris. a blue red and yellow macaw chain to a stanchion spread his wing against the sun in an ecstasy of terror. half a dozen red gold pine and banana have be knock down from their ripen place and be lie between the foot of the fighter. one pine ha roll against the long brown fur of a muzzle bear. his owner a bushy beard hindu kneel over the animal his body cloth throw clear of a hard brown arm his finger ready to loose the muzzle strap. the ship s cook in blood stain white watch from the butch s shop and a black zanzibari stoker grin through the bar of the engine room hatch one ray of sun shin straight into his pink mouth. the officer of the watch a red whisker man be kneel down on the bridge to peer through the railing and be shift a long thin black revolver from his leave hand to his right. the faithful sunlight that put everything into place give his whisker and the hair on the back of his tan wrist just the colour of the copper pot the bear s fur and the trample pine. for the rest there be the blue sea beyond the awning. 
three year hard work beside the special knowledge of a lifetime would be need to copy even to copy this picture. mr. so and so r. a. could undoubtedly draw the bird. mr. such another. equally r. a. the bear. and score of gentleman the still life. but who would be the man to pull the whole thing together and make it the riotous toss cataract of colour and life that it be. and when it be do some middle age person from the province who have never see a pineapple out of a plate or a kris out of the south kensington would say that it do not remind him of something that it ought to remind him of and therefore that it be bad. if the gallery could be bequeath to the nation something might perhaps be gain but the nation would complain of the draught and the absence of chair. but no matter. in another world we shall see certain gentleman set to tickle the back of circe s swine through all eternity. also they will have to tickle with their bare hand. 
the japanese room visit and set in order for the second time hold more picture than could be describe in a month. but most of them be small and except always the light within human compass. one however might be difficult. it be an unexpected gift pick up in a tokio bye street after dark. half the town be out for a walk and all the people s clothe be indigo and so be the shadow and most of the paper lantern be drop of blood red. by the light of smoke oil lamp people be sell flower and shrub wicked little dwarf pine stunt peach and plum tree wisteria bush clip and twist out of all liken to wholesome plant lean and leer out of green glaze pot. in the flicker of the yellow flame these force cripple and the yellow face above them reel to and fro fantastically all together. a the light steady they would return to the pretence of be green thing till a puff of the warm night wind among the flare set the whole line off again in a crazy dance of dwergs their shadow caper on the house front behind them. 
at a corner of a street some rich men have get together and leave unguarded all the gold diamond and ruby of the east. but when you come near you saw that this treasure be only a gather of goldfish in glass globe yellow white and red fish with from three to five fork tail apiece and eye that bulge far beyond their head. there be wooden pan full of tiny ruby fish and little child with net dabble and shriek in chase of some special beauty and the frighten fish kick up shower of little pearl with their tail. the child carry lantern in the shape of small red paper fish bob at the end of sliver of bamboo and these drift through the crowd like a stray constellation of baby star. when the child stand at the edge of a canal and call down to unseen friend in boat the pink light be all reflect orderly below. the light of the thousand small light in the street go straight up into the darkness among the interlace telegraph wire and just at the edge of the shin haze on a sort of pigeon trap forty foot above grind sit a japanese fireman wrap up in his cloak keep watch against fire. he look unpleasantly like a bulgarian atrocity or a burmese deviation from the law of humanity be very still and all huddle up in his roost. that be a superb picture and it arrange itself to admiration. now disregard these thing and others wonder and miracle all men be content to sit in studio and by light that be not light to fake subject from pot and pan and rag and brick that be call piece of colour. their collection of rubbish cost in the end quite a much a a ticket a first class one to new world where the prop be give away with the sunshine. to do anything because it be or may not be new on the market be wickedness that carry it own punishment. but surely there must be thing in this world paintable other and beyond those that lie between the north cape say and algiers. for the sake of the picture put aside the dear delight of the gamble it might be worth while to venture out a little beyond the regular circle of subject and see what happen. if a man can draw one thing it ha be say he can draw anything. at the most he can but fail and there be several matter in the world bad than failure. bet on a certainty for instance or play with nick card be immoral and secure expulsion from club. keep deliberately to one set line of work because you know you can do it and be certain to get money by so do be on the other hand count a virtue and secure admission to club. there must be a middle way somewhere a there must be somewhere an unmarried man with no position reputation or other vanity to lose who most keenly want to find out what his palette be set for in this life. he will pack his steamer trunk and get into the open to wrestle with effect that he can never reproduce. all the same his will be a superb failure. 
captain courageous. 
from yokohama to montreal be a long day s journey and the forepart be uninviting. in three voyage out of five the north pacific too big to lie altogether idle too idle to get hand about the business of a storm sulk and smoke like a chimney. the passenger fresh from japan heat wither in the chill and a clammy dew distil from the rig. that gray monotony of sea be not at all homelike be a yet new and not use to the procession of keel. it hold a very few picture and the best of it story those relate to seal poach among the kuriles and the russian rookery be not exactly fit for publication. there be a man in yokohama who in a previous life burn galleon with drake. he be a gentleman adventurer of the large and most resourceful by instinct a carver of kingdom a ruler of men on the high sea and an inveterate gambler against death. because he supply nothing more than sealskin to the wholesale dealer at home the fame of his deed his brilliant fight his more brilliant escape and his most brilliant strategy will be lose among sixty ton schooner or tell only in the mouth of drunken seaman whom none believe. now there sit a great spirit under the palm tree of the navigator group a thousand league to the south and he crown with rose and laurel string together the pearl of those part. when he ha do with this down there perhaps he will turn to the smoky sea and the wonderful adventure of captain. then there will be a tale to listen to. 
but the first touch of dry land make the sea and all upon it unreal. five minute after the traveller be on the c. p. r train at vancouver there be no romance of blue water but another kind the life of the train into which he come to grow a into life aboard ship. a week on wheel turn a man into a part of the machine. he know when the train will stop to water wait for news of the trestle ahead drop the din car slip into a side to let the west bind mail go by or yell through the thick night for an engine to help push up the bank. the snort the snap and whine of the air brake have a mean for him and he learn to distinguish between noise between the rattle of a loose lamp and the ugly rattle of small stone on a scarped embankment between the hoot. toot. that scare wander cow from the line and the dry roar of the engine at the distance signal. in england the railway come late into a settle country fence round with the terror of the law and it ha remain ever since just a little outside daily life a thing to be respect. here it stroll along with it hand in it pocket and a straw in it mouth on the heel of the rough hew trail or log road a platformless regulationless necessity. and it be treat even by sick person and young child with a familiarity that sometimes affect the death rate. there be a small maiden age seven who honour our smoke compartment with her presence when other excitement fail and it be she that say to the conductor when do we change crew. i want to pick water lily yellow one. a mere halt she know would not suffice for her need. but the regular fifteen minute stop when the red paint tool chest be take off the rear car and a new gang come aboard. the big man bend down to little impudence want to pick lily eh. what would you do if the car go on and take mama away si. take the next train she reply and tell the conductor to send me to brooklyn. i live there. but s pose he wouldn t. he d have to say young america. i d be a lose child. 
now from the province of alberta to brooklyn u. s. a. may be three thousand mile. a great stretch of that distance be a new a the day before yesterday and strew with township in every stage of growth from the city of one round house two log hut and a chinese camp somewhere in the foot hill of the selkirk to winnipeg with her league long main street and her war newspaper. just at present there be an epidemic of politics in manitoba and brass band and notice of committee meeting be splash about the town. by reason of their closeness to the stage they have catch the contagion of foul mouthedness and accusation of bribery corruption and evil live be many. it be sweet to find a little baby city with only three men in it who can handle type curse and swear across the illimitable level for all the world a though it be a grow up christian centre. 
all the new town have their own want to consider and the first of these be a railway. if the town be on a line already then a new line to tap the back country. but at all cost a line. for this it will sell it corrupt soul and then be very indignant because the railway before which it ha grovel ride rough shoe over the place. 
each new town belief itself to be a possible winnipeg until the glamour of the thing be a little wear off and the local paper slide down the pole of pride with the hind leg of despair say defiantly. at least a veterinary surgeon and a drug store would meet with encouragement in our midst and it be a fact that five new building have be erect in our midst since the spring. from a distance nothing be easy than to smile at this sort of thing but he must have a cool head who can keep his pulse level when just such a wildcat town ten house two church and a line of rail get on the boom the reader at home say yes but it s all a lie. it may be but do men lie about denver leadville ballarat break hill portland or winnipeg twenty year ago or adelaide when town lot go beg within the memory of middle age men. do they lie about vancouver six year since or creede not twenty month go. hardly. and it be just this knowledge that lead the passer by to give ear to the wild statement of the wild town. anything be possible especially among the rockies where the mineral lie over and above the mine town the centre of ranch country and the supply town to the farm district. there be literally score upon score of lakelets in the hill bury in wood now that before twenty year be run will be crowd summer resort. you in england have no idea of what summer mean in the state and le of the amount of money that be spend on the yearly holiday. people have no more than just begin to discover the place call the banff hot spring two day west of winnipeg. [ ] in a little time they will know half a dozen spot not a day s ride from montreal and it be along that line that money will be make. in those day too wheat will be grow for the english market four hundred mile north of the present field on the west side. and british columbia perhaps the lovely land in the world next to new zealand will have her own line of six thousand ton steamer to australia and the british investor will no long throw away his money on hellicat south american republic or give it a a hostage to the state. he will keep it in the family a a wise man should. then the town that be to day the only name in the wilderness yes and some of those place mark on the map a hudson bay port will be city because but it be hopeless to make people understand that actually and indeed we do posse an empire of which canada be only one portion an empire which be not bound by election return on the north and eastbourne riot on the south an empire that ha not yet be scratch. 
[footnote. see pp. ]. 
let u return to the new town. three time within one year do fortune come knock to the door of a man i know. once at seattle when that town be a gray blur after a fire. once at tacoma in the day when the steam tram run off the rail twice a week. and once at spokane fall. but in the roar of the land boom he do not hear her and she go away leave him only a tenderness akin to weakness for all new town and a desire mercifully limit by lack of money to gamble in every one of them. of all the excitement that life offer there be few to be compare with the whirl of a red hot boom. also it be strictly moral because you do fairly earn your unearned increment by labour and perspiration and sit up far into the night by work like a fiend a all pioneer must do. and consider all that be in it. the headlong stampede to the new place. the money dash down like counter for mere daily bread. the arrival of the pile car whence the raw material of a city men lumber and shingle be shoot on to the not yet nail platform. the slash out and peg down of road across the blank face of the wilderness. the heave up amid shout and yell of the city s one electric light a raw sizzle arc atop of an unbarked pine pole. the sweat jostle mob at the sale of town lot. the roar of let the woman have it. that stop all bid when the one other woman in the place put her price on a plot. the pack real estate office. the real estate agent themselves lose novelist of prodigious imagination. the gorgeous pink and blue map of the town hang up in the bar room with every railroad from portland to portland meet in it heart. the misspell curse against this dam hole in the grind scrawl on the flank of a stray freight car by some man who have lose his money and go away. the conference at street corner of syndicate six hour establish by men not twenty five year old. the outspoken contempt for the next town also on the boom and therefore utterly vile. the unceasing tramp of heavy foot on the board pavement where strange sometimes turn on strange in an agony of conviction and shake him by the shoulder shout in his ear by g d. isn t it grand. isn t it glorious. and last the sleep of utterly wear out men three in each room of the shanty hotel. all meal two dollar. all drink thirty five cent. no wash do here. the manager not responsible for anything. doe the bald catalogue of these recital leave you cold. it be possible. but it be also possible after three day in a new town to set the full half of a truck load of archbishop fight for corner lot a they never fight for mitre or crozier. there be a contagion in a boom a irresistible a that of a panic in a theatre. 
after a while thing settle down and then the carpenter who be also an architect can lay his bare arm across the bar and sell them to the high bidder for the house be come up like toadstool after rain. the men who do not build cheer those who do in that build mean back your belief in your town yours to you and peculiarly. confound all other town whatsoever. behind the crowd of business men the weekly town paper play a a stockwhip play on a mob of cattle. there be honour heap extravagant imperial for the good the employer of labour the builder of store the spender of money. there be abuse savage and outrageous for the bad the man who buy out of the town the man who intend to go the sitter on the fence. with persuasion and invitation in prose verse and zincograph for all that outside world which prefer to live in city other than ours. 
now the editor a often a not begin a a mercenary and end a a patriot. this too be all of a piece with human nature. a few year late if providence be good come the return for judicious investment. perhaps the town ha stand the test of boom and that which be clapboard be now milwaukee brick or dress stone vile in design but permanent. the shanty hotel be the something house with accommodation for two hundred guest. the manager who serve you in his shirt sleeve a his own hotel clerk be gorgeous in broadcloth and need to be remind of the first meet. suburban villa more or le adorn the flat from which the lively fancy. and fancy be free in the early day. hang back. horse car jingle where the prairie schooner use to stick fast in the mud hole scoop to that end opposite the saloon. and there be a belt electric service pay fabulous dividend. then do you feel old than methuselah and twice a important go forth and patronise thing in general while the manager tell you exactly what sort of millionaire you would have be if you have stay by the town. 
or else the bottom ha tumble out of the boom and the town new make be dead dead a a young man s corpse lay out in the morning. success be not justify by success. of ten thousand not three hundred remain and these live in hut on the outskirt of the brick street. the hotel with it suite of musty room be a big tomb. the factory chimney be cold. the villa have no glass in them and the fire weed glow in the centre of the driveway mock the arrogant advertisement in the empty shop. there be nothing to do except to catch trout in the stream that be to have be defile by the city sewage. a two pounder lie fan himself just in the cool of the main culvert where the alder have creep up to the city wall. you pay your money and more or le you take your choice. 
by the time that man ha see these thing and a few others that go with a boom he may say that he ha live and talk with his enemy in the gate. he ha hear the arabian night retell and know the inward kernel of that romance which some. little folk say be vanish. here they lie in their false teeth for cortes be not dead nor drake and sir philip sidney dy every few month if you know where to look. the adventurer and captain courageous of old have only change their dress a little and alter their employment to suit the world in which they move. clive come down from lobengula s country a few month ago protest that there be an empire there and find very few that believe. hastings study a map of south africa in a corrugate iron hut at johannesburg ten year ago. since then he ha alter the map considerably to the advantage of the empire but the heart of the empire be set on ballot box and small lie. the illustrious don quixote to day life on the north coast of australia where he ha find the treasure of a sink spanish galleon. now and again he destroy black fellow who hide under his bed to spear him. young hawkins with a still young boscawen for his second be till last year chase slave dhow round tajurrah. they have send him now to the zanzibar coast to be grill into an admiral. and the valorous sandoval ha be hold the republic of mexico by the throat any time these fourteen year go. the others big men all and not very much afraid of responsibility be sell horse break trail drink sangaree run railway beyond the timberline swim river blow up tree stump and make city where no city be in all the five quarter of the world. only people will not believe this when you tell them. they be too near thing and a great deal too well feed. so they say of the most cold blood realism. this be romance. how interest. and of over handle thumb mark realism. this be indeed romance. it be the next century that look over it own will see the hero of our time clearly. 
meantime this earth of ours we hold a fair slice of it so far be full of wonder and miracle and mystery and marvel and in default it be good to go up and down see and hear tell of them all. 
on one side only. 
new oxford u. s. a. june july. 
the truth be say the man in the train that we live in a tropical country for three month of the year only we win t recognise. look at this. he hand over a long list of death from heat that enliven the newspaper. all the city where men live at break strain be send in their butch bill and the paper of the city themselves apostle of the gospel of rush be beseech their reader to keep cool and not to overwork themselves while the hot wave be upon them. the river be patch and bar with sun dry pebble. the log and logger be drought bind somewhere up the connecticut. and the grass at the side of the track be burn in a hundred place by the spark from locomotive. men hatless coatless and gasp lay in the shade of that station where only a few month ago the glass stand at below zero. now the reading be degree in the shade. main street do you remember main street of a little village lock up in the snow this spring. [ ] have give up the business of life and an american flag with some politician s name print across the bottom hang down across the street a stiff a a board. there be men with fan and alpaca coat curl up in splint chair in the verandah of the one hotel among them an ex president of the unite state. he complete the impression that the furniture of the entire country have be turn out of door for summer clean in the absence of all the inhabitant. nothing look so hopelessly ex a a president return to store the star and stripe signify that the presidential campaign have open in main street open and shut up again. politics evaporate at summer heat when all hand be busy with the last of the hay and a the former put it vermont s bind to go republican. the custom of the land be to drag the scuffle and dust of an election over several month to the improvement of business and manner. but the noise of that war come faintly up the valley of the connecticut and be lose among the fiddle of the locust. their music put a it be a knife edge upon the heat of the day. in truth it be a tropical country for the time be. thunder storm prowl and growl round the belt hill spit themselves away in a few drop of rain and leave the air more dead than before. in the wood where even the faithful spring be begin to run low the pine and balsam have throw out all their fragrance upon the heat and wait for the wind to bring news of the rain. the clematis wild carrot and all the gipsy flower camp by sufferance between fence line and road net be mask in white dust and the golden rod of the pasture that be burn to flax colour burn too like burnish brass. a pillar of dust on the long hog back of the road across the hill show where a team be lather between farm and the roof of the wooden house flicker in the haze of their own heat. overhead the chicken hawk be the only creature at work and his shrill kite like call send the gap chicken from the dust bath in haste to their mother. the red squirrel a usual feign business of importance among the butternut but this be pure priggishness. when the passer by be go he cease chatter and climb back to where the little breeze can stir his tail plume. from somewhere under the lazy fold of a meadow come the drone of a mow machine among the hay it whurr oo and the grunt of the tire horse. 
[footnote. see in sight of monadnock. ]. 
house be only mean to eat and sleep in. the rest of life be live at full length in the verandah. when traffic be brisk three whole team will pas that verandah in one day and it be necessary to exchange news about the weather and the prospect for oat. when oat be in there will be slack time on the farm and the farmer will seriously think of do the hundred thing that they have let slide during the summer. they will undertake this and that when they get around to it. the phrase translate be the exact equivalent to the mañana of the spaniard the kul hojaiga of upper india the yuroshii of the japanese and the long drawl taihod of the maori. the only person who get around in this weather be the summer boarder the refugee from the burn city of the plain and she be generally a woman. she walk and botanize and kodaks and strip the bark off the white birch to make blue ribboned waste paper basket and the farmer regard her with wonder. more doe he wonder still at the city clerk in a blazer who ha two week holiday in the year and apparently unlimited money which he earn in the easy possible way by sit at a desk and write the farmer s wife see the fashion of the summer boarder and between them man and woman get a notion of the beauty of city life for which their child may live to blame them. the blazer and the town make gown be innocent recruit sergeant for the city brigade. and since one man s profession be ever a mystery to his fellow blazer and gown believe that the farmer must be happy and content. a summer resort be one of the thousand window whence to watch the thousand aspect of life in the atlantic state. remember that between june and september it be the desire of all who can to get away from the big city not on account of wantonness a people leave london but because of actual heat. so they get away in their million with their million the wife of the rich men for five clear month the others for a long a they can. and like draw like they make community set by set breed by breed division by division over the length and breadth of the land from maine and the upper reach of the saguenay through the mountain and hot spring of half a dozen interior state out and away to sitka in steamer. then they spend money on hotel bill among ten thousand farm on private company who lease and stock land for sport purpose on yacht and canoe bicycle rod châlets cottage read circle camp tent and all the luxury they know. but the luxury of rest most of them do not know. and the telephone and telegraph be faithfully drag after them l their men folk should for a moment forget the ball and chain at foot. 
for sadness with laughter at bottom there be few thing to compare with the sight of a coat le muddy boot millionaire his hat adorn with trout fly and a string of small fish in his hand claw wildly at the telephone of some back of beyond health resort. thus. 
hello. hello. yes. who s there. oh all right. go ahead. yes it s me. hey what. repeat. sell for how much. forty four and a half. repeat. no. i tell you to hold on. what. what. who buy at that. say hold a minute. cable the other side. no. hold on. i ll come down. business with watch. tell schaefer i ll see him to morrow. over his shoulder to his wife who wear half hoop diamond ring at a. m. lizzie where s my grip. i ve get to go down. 
and he go down to eat in a hotel and sleep in his shut up house. men be a scarce at most of the summer place a they be in indian hill station in late april. the woman tell you that they can t get away and if they do they would only be miserable to get back. now whether this wholesale abandonment of husband by wife be wholesome let those who know the beauty of the anglo indian system settle for themselves. 
that both men and woman need rest very badly a glance at the crowd hotel table make plain so plain indeed that the foreigner who ha not be teach that fuss and worry be in themselves honourable wish sometimes he could put the whole unrestful crowd to sleep for seventeen hour a day. i have inquire of not le than five hundred men and woman in various part of the state why they break down and look so gash. and the men say. if you don t keep up with the procession in america you be leave. and the woman smile an evil smile and answer that no outsider yet have discover the real cause of their worry and strain or why their life be arrange to work with the large amount of friction in the short give time. now the men can be leave to their own folly but the cause of the woman s trouble ha be reveal to me. it be the thing call help which be no help. in the multitude of present that the american man ha give to the american woman. for detail see daily paper. he ha forget or be unable to give her good servant and that sordid trouble run equally through the household of the millionaire or the flat of the small city man. yes it s easy enough to laugh say one woman passionately we be wear out and our child be wear out too and we re always worry i know it. what can we do. if you stay here you ll know that this be the land of all the luxury and none of the necessity. you ll know and then you win t laugh. you ll know why woman be say to take their husband to board house and never have home. you ll know what an irish catholic mean. the men win t get up and attend to these thing but we would. if we have female suffrage we d shut the door to all the irish and throw it open to all the chinese and let the woman have a little protection. it be the cry of a soul wear thin with exasperation but it be truth. to day i do not laugh any more at the race that depend on inefficient helot race for it inefficient service. when next you housekeep in england differ with the respectable amiable industrious sixteen pound maid who wear a cap and say ma be remember the pauper labour of america the wife of the sixty million king who have no subject. no man could get a thorough knowledge of the problem in one lifetime but he could guess at the size and the import of it after he ha descend into the arena and wrestle with the swede and the dane and the german and the unspeakable celt. then he perceive how good for the breed it must be that a man should thresh himself to piece in naked competition with his neighbour while his wife struggle unceasingly over primitive savagery in the kitchen. in india sometimes when a famine be at hand the life of the land start up before your eye in all it bareness and bitter stress. here in spite of the trimming and the frillings it refuse to be subdue and the clamour and the clatter of it be loud above all other sound a sometimes the thunder of disorganise engine stop conversation along the deck of a liner and in the inquire eye of the passenger you read the question this thing be make and pay to bear u to port quietly. why doe it not do so. only here the rattle of the badly put together machine be always in the ear though men and woman run about with labour save appliance and gospel of power through repose tinker and oil and make more noise. the machine be new. some day it be go to be the fine machine in the world. to the rank of the amateur artificer therefore be add men with notebook tap at every nut and bolthead fiddle with the gland register revolution and cry out from time to time that this or that be or be not distinctively american. meantime men and woman die unnecessarily in the wheel and they be say to have fall in the battle of life. 
the god who see u all die know that there be far too much of that battle but we do not and so continue worship the knife that cut and the wheel that break u a blindly a the outcast sweeper worship lal beg the glorify broom that be the incarnation of his craft. but the sweeper ha sense enough not to kill himself and to be proud of it with sweep. 
a foreigner can do little good by talk of these thing. for the same lean dry blood that breed the fever of unrest breed also the savage parochial pride that squeal under a steady stare or a point finger. among themselves the people of the eastern city admit that they and their womenfolk overwork grievously and go to piece very readily and that the consequence for the young stock be unpleasant indeed. but before the strange they prefer to talk about the future of their mighty continent. which ha nothing to do with the case. and to call aloud on baal of the dollar to catalogue their line mine telephone bank and city and all the other shell button and counter that they have make their god over them. now a nation doe not progress upon it brain pan a some book would have u believe but upon it belly a do the serpent of old. and in the very long run the work of the brain come to be gather in by a slow foot breed that have unimaginative stomach and the nerve that know their place. 
all this be very console from the alien s point of view. he perceive with great comfort that out of strain be breed impatience in the shape of a young bundle of nerve who be about a undisciplined an imp a the earth can show. out of impatience grow up habituate to violent and ugly talk and the impatience and recklessness of his neighbour be beget lawlessness encourage by laziness and suppress by violence when it become insupportable. out of lawlessness be breed rebellion. and that fruit ha be taste once already. and out of rebellion come profit to those who wait. he hear of the power of the people who through rank slovenliness neglect to see that their law be soberly enforce from the begin. and these people not once or twice in a year but many time within a month go out in the open street and with a maximum waste of power and shout strangle other people with rope. they be he be tell law abide citizen who have execute the will of the people. which be a though a man should leave his paper unsorted for a year and then smash his desk with an axe cry be i not orderly. he hear lawyer otherwise sane and mature defend this pig job murder on the ground that the people stand behind the law the law that they never administer. he see a right at present only half but still half concede to anticipate the law in one s own interest. and nervous impatience. always nerve. forejudging the suspect in gaol the prisoner in the dock and the award between nation and nation ere it be declare. he know that the maxim in london yokohama and hongkong in do business with the pure breed american be to keep him wait for the reason that force inaction fret the man to a lather a stand in harness fret a half break horse. he come across a thousand little peculiarity of speech manner and think matter of nerve and stomach develop by everlasting friction and they be all just the least little bite in the world lawless. no more so than the restless click together of horn in a herd of restless cattle but certainly no le. they be all good good for those who wait. 
on the other hand to consider the matter more humanly there be thousand of delightful men and woman go to piece for the pitiful reason that if they do not keep up with the procession they be leave. and they be leave in clothe that have no back to them among mound of smilax. and young men chance meet in the street talk to you about their nerve which be thing no young man should know anything about. and the friend of your friend go down with nervous prostration and the people overhear in the train talk about their nerve and the nerve of their relative. and the little child must need have their nerve attend to ere their milk teeth be shed and the middle age woman and the middle age men have get them too and the old men lose the dignity of their age in an indecent restlessness and the advertisement in the paper go to show that this sweep list be no lie. atop of the fret and the stampede the tingle self consciousness of a new people make them take a sort of pervert pride in the futile racket that send up the death rate a child s delight in the blaze and the dust of the march of progress. be it not distinctively american. it be and it be not. if the city be all america a they pretend fifty year would see the march of progress bring to a standstill a a locomotive be stop by heat bearing. 
down in the meadow the mow machine ha check and the horse be shake themselves. the last of the sunlight leaf the top of monadnock and four mile away main street light her electric lamp. it be band night in main street and the folk from putney from marlboro from guildford and even new fane will drive in their well fill waggon to hear music and look at the ex president. over the shoulder of the meadow two men come up very slowly their hat off and their arm swing loosely at their side. they do not hurry they have not hurry and they never will hurry for they be of country banker of the flesh and blood of the ever bankrupt city. their child may yet be pale summer boarder. a the boarder city breed weed may take over their farm. from the plough to the pavement go man but to the plough he return at last. 
go to supper. 
ye ep very slowly across the wash of the uncut grass. 
say that corncrib want paint. 
do that when we get around to it. 
they go off through the dusk without farewell or salutation steadily a their own steer. and there be a few million of them unhandy men to cross in their way set silent indirect in speech and a impenetrable a that other eastern fanner who be the bedrock of another land. they do not appear in the city paper they be not much hear in the street and they tell very little in the outsider s estimate of america. 
and they be the american. 
leaf from a winter note book. 

we have walk abreast of the year from the very begin and that be when the first blood root come up between the patch of april snow while yet the big drift at the bottom of the meadow hold fast. in the shadow of the wood and under the blow pine needle clot of snow lay till far into may but neither the season nor the flower take any note of them and before we be well sure winter have go the lackey of my lord baltimore in their new livery come to tell u that summer be in the valley and please might they nest at the bottom of the garden. 
follow summer angry fidgety and nervous with the corn and tobacco to ripen in five short month the pasture to reclothe and the fall leaf to hide away under new carpet. suddenly in the middle of her work on a stuffy still july day she call a wind out of the northwest a wind blow under an arch of steel belly cloud a wicked bitter wind with a lace of hail to it a wind that come and be go in le than ten minute but block the road with fall tree topple over a barn and blow potato out of the grind. when that be do a white cloud shape like a dumb bell whirl down the valley across the even blue roar and twist and twist and roar all alone by itself. a west indian hurricane could not have be quick on it foot than our little cyclone and when the house rise a tiptoe like a cockerel in act to crow and a sixty foot elm go by the board and that which have be a dusty road become a roar torrent all in three minute we felt that the new england summer have creole blood in her vein. she go away red face and angry to the last slam all the door of the hill behind her and autumn who be a lady take charge. 
no pen can describe the turn of the leaf the insurrection of the tree people against the wan year. a little maple begin it flame blood red of a sudden where he stand against the dark green of a pine belt. next morning there be an answer signal from the swamp where the sumac grow. three day late the hill side a far a the eye could range be afire and the road pave with crimson and gold. then a wet wind blow and ruin all the uniform of that gorgeous army. and the oak who have hold themselves in reserve buckle on their dull and bronze cuirass and stand it out stiffly to the last blow leaf till nothing remain but pencil shade of bare bough and one could see into the most private heart of the wood. 
frost may be look for till the middle of may and after the middle of september so summer ha little time for enamel work or leaf embroidery. her sister bring the gift spring wind flower solomon s seal dutchman s breech quaker lady and trail arbutus that smell a divinely a the true may. autumn ha golden rod and all the tribe of aster pink lilac and creamy white by the double armful. when these go the curtain come down and whatever power shift the scenery behind work without noise. in tropic land you can hear the play of growth and decay at the back of the night silence. even in england the tide of the winter air have a set and a purpose. but here they be dumb altogether. the very last piece of bench work this season be the trail end of a blackberry vine most daringly conventionalise in hammer iron fling down on the frosty grass an instant before people come to look. the blue bloom of the furnace be still die along the central rib and the side spray be cherry red even a they have be lift from the charcoal. it be a detail evidently of some invisible gate in the wood. but we never find that workman though he have leave the mark of his cleave foot a plainly a any stray deer. in a week the heavy frost with scythe and hammer have slash and knock down all the road side growth and the kindly bush that veil the drop off the unfenced track. 
there the season stop awhile. autumn be go winter be not. we have time deal out to u mere clear fresh time grace day to enjoy. the white wooden farm house be bank round two foot deep with dry leaf or earth and the chopper go out to get ready next year s store of wood. now chop be an art and the chopper in all respect an artist. he make his own axe helve and for each man there be but one perfect piece of wood in all the world. this he never find but the like substitute be trim and balance and poise to that ideal. one man i know ha evolve very nearly the weapon of umslopogaas. it be almost straight lap at the butt with leather amazingly springy and carry a two edge blade for split and chop. if his demon be with him and what artist can answer for all his mood. he will cause a tree to fall upon any stick or stone that you choose uphill or down to the right or to the leave. artist like however he explain that that be nothing. any fool can play with a tree in the open but it need the craftsman to bring a tree down in thick timber and do no harm. to see an eighty foot maple four foot in the butt drop deftly a a fly be cast in the only place where it will not outrage the feeling and swipe off the top of fifty junior be a revelation. white pine hemlock and spruce share this country with maple black and white birch and beech. maple seem to have few preference and the white birch straggle and shiver on the outskirt of every camp. but the pine hold together in solid regiment send out skirmisher to invade a neglect pasture on the first opportunity. there be no overcoat warm than the pine in a gale when the wood for mile round be sing like cathedral organ and the first snow of the year powder the rock ledge. 
the moss and lichen green sulphur and amber stud the copper floor of needle where the feathery grind pine run aimlessly to and fro along the grind spell out break word of half forget charm. there be checker berry on the outskirt of the wood where the partridge. he be a ruff grouse really. din and by the desert log road toadstool of all colour sprout on the decay stump. wherever a green or blue rock lift from the hillside the needle have be pack and mat round it base till when the sunshine catch them stone and set together look no mean than turquoise in dead gold. the wood be full of colour belt and blotch of it the colour of the savage red yellow and blue. yet in their lodge there be very little life for the wood people do not readily go into the shadow. the squirrel have their business among the beech and hickory by the road side where they can watch the traffic and talk. we have no gray one hereabouts. they be good to eat and suffer for it. but five red live in a hickory hard by and no weather put them to sleep. the wood chuck a marmot and a strategist make his burrow in the middle of a field where he must see you ere you see him. now and again a dog manage to cut him off his base and the battle be worth cross field to watch. but the woodchuck turn in long ago and will not be out till april. the coon life well no one seem to know particularly where brer coon life but when the hunter s moon be large and full he descend into the corn land and men chase him with dog for his fur which make the fine kind of overcoat and his flesh which taste like chicken. he cry at night sorrowfully a though a child be lose. 
they seem to kill for one reason or other everything that move in this land. hawk of course. eagle for their rarity. fox for their pelt. red shoulder blackbird and baltimore oriole because they be pretty and the other small thing for sport french fashion. you can get a rifle of a kind for twelve shilling and if your neighbour be fool enough to post notice forbid hunt and fish you naturally seek his wood. so the country be very silent and unalive. 
there be however bear within a few mile a you will see from this notice pick up at the local tobacconist s. 
johnny get your gun. bear hunt. 
a bear be too numerous in the town of peltyville corner vt. the hunter of the surround town be invite to participate in a grand hunt to be hold on blue mountain in the town of peltyville corner vt. wednesday nov. th if pleasant. if not first fine day. come one come all. 
they go but it be the bear that would not participate. the notice be print at somebody s electric print establishment. queer mixture isn t it. 
the bear doe not run large a a rule but he ha a weakness for swine and calf which bring punishment. twelve hour rail and a little march take you up to the moose country. and twenty odd mile from here a the crow fly you come to virgin timber where trapper live and where there be a lose pond that many have find once but can never find again. 
men who be of one blood with sheep have follow their friend and the railway along the river valley where the town be. across the hill the inhabitant be few and outside their state little know. they withdraw from society in november if they live on the upland come down in may a the snow give leave. not much more than a generation ago these farm make their own clothe soap and candle and kill their own meat thrice a year beef veal and pig and sit still between time. now they buy shop make clothe patent soap and kerosene. and it be among their tent that the huge red and gild biography of president and the twenty pound family bible with illuminate marriage register mourn card baptismal certificate and hundred of genuine steel engraving sell best. here too off the main travel road the wander quack patent electric pill nerve cure etc. divide the field with the seed and fruit man and the seller of cattle bolus. they dose themselves a good deal i fancy for it be a poor family that doe not know all about nervous prostration. so the quack drive a pair of horse and a gaily paint waggon with a hood and sometimes take his wife with him. once only have i meet a pedlar afoot. he be an old man shake with palsy and he push a thing exactly like a pauper s burial cart sell pin tape scent and flavouring. you help yourself for his hand have no direction and he tell a long tale in which the deeding away of a farm to one of his family be mix up with pride at the distance he still could cover daily. a much a six mile sometimes. he be no lear a the gift of the farm might suggest but seal of the tribe of the wander jew a tremulous old giddy gaddy. there be many such rover gelders of colt and the like who work a long beat south to virginia almost and north to the frontier pay with talk and gossip for their entertainment. 
yet tramp be few and that be well for the american article answer almost exactly to the vagrant and criminal tribe of india be a predatory ruffian who know too much to work. bad place to beg in after dark on a farm very be vermont. gypsy pitch their camp by the river in the spring and cooper horse in the manner of their tribe. they have the gypsy look and some of the old gypsy name but say that they be largely mix with gentile blood. 
winter ha chase all these really interest people south and in a few week if we have anything of a snow the back farm will be unvisited save by the doctor s hood sleigh. it be no child s play to hold a practice here through the winter month when the drift be really form and a pair can drop in up to their saddle pad. four horse a day some of them use and use up for they be good men. 
now in the big silence of the snow be bear perhaps not a little of that new england conscience which her child write about. there be much time to think and think be a highly dangerous business. conscience fear undigested read and it may be not too well cook food have full swing. a man and more particularly a woman can easily hear strange voice the word of the lord roll between the dead hill. may see vision and dream dream. get revelation and an outpouring of the spirit and end. such thing have be. lamentably enough in those big house by the connecticut river which have be tenderly christen the retreat. hate breed a well a religion the deep instriking hate between neighbour that be bear of a hundred little thing add up brood over and hatch by the stave when two or three talk together in the long evening. it would be very interest to get the statistic of revival and murder and find how many of them have be commit in the spring. but for undistracted people winter be one long delight of the eye. in other land one know the snow a a nuisance that come and go and be sorely man handle and mess at the last. here it lie long on the grind than any crop from november to april sometimes and for three month life go to the tune of sleigh bell which be not a a southern visitor once hint ostentation but safeguard. the man who drive without them be not love. the snow be a faithful barometer foretell good sleigh or stark confinement to barrack. it be all the manure the stony pasture receive. it cloak the grind and prevent the frost burst pipe. it be the best i have almost write the only road maker in the state. on the other side it can rise up in the night and bid the people sit still a the egyptian. it can stop mail. wipe out all time table. extinguish the lamp of twenty town and kill man within sight of his own door step or hear of his cattle unfed. no one who ha be through even so modify a blizzard a new england can produce talk lightly of the snow. imagine eight and forty hour of roar wind the thermometer well down towards zero scoop and gouge across a hundred mile of newly fall snow. the air be full of sting shoot and at ten yard the tree be invisible. the foot slide on a reef polish and black a obsidian where the wind ha skin an expose corner of road down to the dirt ice of early winter. the next step end hip deep and over for here an unseen wall be bank back the rush of the sing drift. a scarped slope rise sheer across the road. the wind shift a point or two and all sink down like sand in the hour glass leave a pot hole of whirl whiten. there be a lull and you can see the surface of the field settle furiously in one direction a tide that spurt from between the tree bole. the hollow of the pasture fill while you watch. empty fill and discharge anew. the rock ledge show the bare flank of a storm chase liner for a moment and whiten duck under. irresponsible snow devil dance by the lee of a barn where three gust meet or stagger out into the open till they be cut down by the main wind. at the bad of the storm there be neither heaven nor earth but only a swizzle into which a man may be brew. distance grow to nightmare scale and that which in the summer be no more than a minute s bare head run be half an hour s gasp struggle each foot win between the lull. then do the heavy timbered barn talk like ship in a cross sea beam work against beam. the winter s hay be rib over with long line of snow dust blow between the board and far below in the byre the ox clash their horn and moan uneasily. 
the next day be blue breathless and most utterly still. the farmer shovel a way to their beast bind with chain their large ploughshare to their heavy wood sled and take of ox a many a allah ha give them. these they drive and the drag share make a furrow in which a horse can walk and the ox by force of repeatedly go in up to their belly presently find foothold. the finish road be a deep double gutter between three foot wall of snow where by custom the heavy vehicle ha the right of way. the light man when he turn out must drop waist deep and haul his unwilling beast into the drift leave providence to steady the sleigh. 
in the town where they choke and sputter and gasp the big snow turn to horsepondine. with u it stay still. but wind sun and rain get to work upon it l the texture and colour should not change daily. rain make a granulate crust over all in which white shagreen the tree be faintly reflect. heavy mist go up and down and create a sort of mirage till they settle and pack round the iron tip hill and then you know how the moon must look to an inhabitant of it. at twilight again the beat down ridge and lap and fold of the upland take on the liken of wet sand some huge and melancholy beach at the world s end and when day meet night it be all goblin country. to westward. the last of the spend day rust red and pearl illimitable level of shore wait for the tide to turn again. to eastward black night among the valley and on the round hill slope a hard glaze that be not so much light a snail slime from the moon. once or twice perhaps in the winter the northern light come out between the moon and the sun so that to the two unearthly light be add the leap and flare of the aurora borealis. 
in january or february come the great ice storm when every branch blade and trunk be coat with freeze rain so that you can touch nothing truly. the spike of the pine be sink into pear shape crystal and each fence post be miraculously hilted with diamond. if you bend a twig the ice crack like varnish and a half inch branch snap off at the light tap. if wind and sun open the day together the eye cannot look steadily at the splendour of this jewelry. the wood be full of the clatter of arm. the ring of buck horn in flight. the stampede of mail foot up and down the glade. and a great dust of battle be puff out into the open till the last of the ice be beat away and the clear branch take up their regular chant. 
again the mercury drop twenty and more below zero and the very tree swoon. the snow turn to french chalk squeak under the heel and their breath cloak the ox in rime. at night a tree s heart will break in him with a groan. accord to the book the frost ha split something but it be a fearful sound this grunt a of a man stun. 
winter that be winter in earnest doe not allow cattle and horse to play about the field so everything come home. and since no share can break grind to any profit for some five month there would seem to be very little to do. a a matter of fact country interest at all season be extensive and peculiar and the day be not long enough for them when you take out that time which a self respect man need to turn himself round in. consider. the solid undisturbed hour stand about one like rampart. at a certain time the sun will rise. at another hour equally certain he will set. this much we know. why in the name of reason therefore should we vex ourselves with vain exertion. an occasional visitor from the city of the plain come up pant to do thing. he be set down to listen to the normal beat of his own heart a sound that very few men have hear. in a few day when the lather of impatience ha dry off he cease to talk of get there or be leave. he doe not desire to accomplish matter right away nor doe he look at his watch from force of habit but keep it where it should be in his stomach. at the last he go back to his beleaguer city unwillingly partially civilise soon to be resavaged by the clash of a thousand war whose echo doe not reach here. 
the air which kill germ dry out the very newspaper. they might be of to morrow or a hundred year ago. they have nothing to do with to day the long full sunlit to day. our interest be not on the same scale a theirs perhaps but much more complex. the movement of a foreign power an alien sleigh on this pontic shore must be explain and account for or this public s heart will burst with unsatisfied curiosity. if it be buck davis with the white mare that he trade his colt for and the practically new sleigh robe that he buy at the sewell auction why doe buck davis who life on the river flat cross our hill unless murder hollow be blockade with snow or unless he ha turkey for sale. but buck davis with turkey would surely have stop here unless he be sell a large stock in town. a wail from the sack at the back of the sleigh tell the tale. it be a winter calf and buck davis be go to sell it for one dollar to the boston market where it will be turn into pot chicken. this leaf the mystery of his change of route unexplained. after two day sit on tenter hook it be discover obliquely that buck go to pay a door yard call on orson butler who life on the saeter where the wind and the bald granite scaurs fight it out together. kirk demming have bring orson news of a fox at the back of black mountain and orson s eldest son go to murder hollow with wood for the new barn floor that the widow amidon be lay down tell buck that he might a well come round to talk to his father about the pig. but old man butler mean fox hunt from the first and what he want to do be to borrow buck s dog who have be duly bring over with the calf and leave on the mountain. no old man butler do not go hunt alone but wait till buck come back from town. buck sell the calf for a dollar and a quarter and not for seventy five cent a be falsely assert by interest party. then the two go after the fox together. this much learn everybody breathe freely if life ha not be complicate in the meantime by more strange counter marching. 
five or six sleigh a day we can understand if we know why they be abroad. but any metropolitan rush of traffic disturb and excite. 
letter to the family. 

these letter appear in newspaper during the spring of after a trip to canada undertake in the autumn of. they be now reprint without alteration. 
the road to quebec. a people at home. city and space. newspaper and democracy. labour. the fortunate town. mountain and the pacific. a conclusion. 
* * * * *. 
the road to quebec. 

it must be hard for those who do not live there to realise the cross between canker and blight that ha settle on england for the last couple of year. the effect of it be felt throughout the empire but at headquarter we taste the stuff in the very air just a one taste iodoform in the cup and bread and butter of a hospital tea. so far a one can come at thing in the present fog every form of unfitness general or specialise bear or create during the last generation ha combine in one big trust a majority of all the minority to play the game of government. now that the game cease to amuse nine tenth of the english who set these folk in power be cry if we have only know what they be go to do we should never have vote for them. 
yet a the rest of the empire perceive at the time these men be always perfectly explicit a to their emotion and intention. they say first and drive it home by large picture that no possible advantage to the empire outweigh the cruelty and injustice of charge the british work man twopence halfpenny a week on some of his provision. incidentally they explain so that all earth except england hear it that the army be wicked. much of the navy unnecessary. that half the population of one of the colony practise slavery with torture for the sake of private gain and that the mere name of empire weary and sicken them. on these ground they stand to save england. on these ground they be elect with what seem like clear order to destroy the blood stain fetish of empire a soon a possible. the present mellow condition of ireland egypt india and south africa be proof of their honesty and obedience. over and above this their mere presence in office produce all along our line the same moral effect a the presence of an incompetent master in a classroom. paper pellet book and ink begin to fly. desk be thump. dirty pen be jab into those try to work. rat and mouse be set free amid squeal of exaggerate fear. and a usual the least desirable character in the form be loud to profess noble sentiment and most eloquent grief at be misjudge. still the english be not happy and the unrest and slackness increase. 
on the other hand which be to our advantage the isolation of the unfit in one political party ha throw up the extremist in what the babu call all their naked cui bono. these last be after satisfy the two chief desire of primitive man by the very late gadget in scientific legislation. but how to get free food and free shall we say love. within the four corner of an act of parliament without give the game away too grossly worry them a little. it be easy enough to laugh at this but we be all so knit together nowadays that a rot at what be call headquarter may spread like bubonic with every steamer. i go across to canada the other day for a few week mainly to escape the blight and also to see what our eldest sister be do. have you ever notice that canada ha to deal in the lump with most of the problem that afflict u others severally. for example she ha the double language double law double politics drawback in a bad form than south africa because unlike our dutch her french cannot well marry outside their religion and they take their order from italy le central sometimes than pretoria or stellenbosch. she ha too something of australia s labour fuss minus australia s isolation but plus the open and secret influence of labour entrench with arm and high explosive on neighbour soil. to complete the parallel she keep tuck away behind mountain a trifle of land call british columbia which resemble new zealand. and new zealander who do not find much scope for young enterprise in their own country be drift up to british columbia already. 
canada ha in her time know calamity more serious than flood frost drought and fire and ha macadamize some stretch of her road toward nationhood with the break heart of two generation. that be why one can discus with canadian of the old stock matter which an australian or new zealander could no more understand than a wealthy child understand death. truly we be an odd family. australia and new zealand. the maori war not count. get everything for nothing. south africa give everything and get le than nothing. canada ha give and take all along the line for nigh on three hundred year and in some respect be the wise a she should be the happy of u all. she seem to be curiously unconscious of her position in the empire perhaps because she ha lately be talk at or down to by her neighbour. you know how at any gather of our men from all quarter it be tacitly concede that canada take the lead in the imperial game. to put it roughly she saw the goal more than ten year ago and ha be work the ball toward it ever since. that be why her inaction at the last imperial conference make people who be interest in the play wonder why she of all of u choose to brigade herself with general botha and to block the forward rush. i too ask that question of many. the answer be something like this. we saw that england wasn t take anything just then. why should we have lay ourselves open to be snub bad than we be. we sit still. quite reasonable almost too convince. there be really no need that canada should have do other than she do except that she be the eldest sister and more be expect of her. she be a little too modest. 
we discuss this first of all under the lee of a wet deck house in mid atlantic. man after man cut in and out of the talk a he suck at his damp tobacco. the passenger be nearly all unmixed canadian mostly bear in the maritime province where their father speak of canada a sussex speak of england but scatter about their business throughout the wide dominion. they be at ease too among themselves with that pleasant intimacy that stamp every branch of our family and every boat that it us on it homeward way. a cape liner be all the sub continent from the equator to simon s town. an orient boat be australasian throughout and a c. p. r. steamer cannot be confuse with anything except canada. it be a pity one may not be bear in four place at once and then one would understand the half tone and aside and the allusion of all our family life without waste of precious time. these big men smoke in the drizzle have hope in their eye belief in their tongue and strength in their heart. i use to think miserably of other boat at the south end of this ocean a quarter full of people deprive of these thing. a young man kindly explain to me how canada have suffer through what he call the imperial connection. how she have be diversely bedevil by english statesman for political reason. he do not know his luck nor would he believe me when i try to point it out. but a nice man in a plaid. who know south africa. lurch round the corner and fell on him with fact and imagery which astonish the patriotic young mind. the plaid finish his outburst with the uncontradicted statement that the english be mad. all our talk end on that note. 
it be an experience to move in the midst of a new contempt. one understand and accept the bitter scorn of the dutch the hopeless anger of one s own race in south africa be also part of the burden. but the canadian s profound sometimes humorous often bewilder always polite contempt of the england of to day cut a little. you see that late unfashionable war[ ] be very real to canada. she send several men to it and a thinly populate country be apt to miss her dead more than a crowd one. when from her point of view they have die for no conceivable advantage moral or material her business instinct or it may be mere animal love of her child cause her to remember and resent quite a long time after the thing should be decently forget. i be shock at the vehemence with which some men. and woman. speak of the affair. some of them go so far a to discus on the ship and elsewhere whether england would stay in the family or whether a some eminent statesman be say to have assert in private talk she would cut the painter to save expense. one man argue without any heat that she would not so much break out of the empire in one flurry a politically vend her child one by one to the near power that threaten her comfort. the sale of each case to be precede by a steady blast of abuse of the choose victim. he quote really these people have viciously long memory. the five year campaign of abuse against south african a a precedent and a warn. 
[footnote. boer war of. ]. 
our tobacco parliament next set itself to consider by what mean if this happen canada could keep her identity unsubmerged. and that lead to one of the most curious talk i have ever hear. it seem to be decide that she might just might pull through by the skin of her teeth a a nation if. but this be doubtful. england do not help others to hammer her. now twenty year ago one would not have hear any of this sort of thing. if it sound a little mad remember that the mother country be throughout consider a a lady in violent hysteric. 
just at the end of the talk one of our twelve or thirteen hundred steerage passenger leap overboard ulstered and boot into a confuse and bitter cold sea. every horror in the world ha it fit ritual. for the fifth time and four time in just such weather i hear the screw stop. saw our wake curve like a whiplash a the great township wrench herself round. the lifeboat s crew hurry to the boat deck. the bare head officer race up the shroud and look for any sign of the poor head that have value itself so lightly. a boat amid wave can see nothing. there be nothing to see from the first. we wait and quarter the grind back and forth for a long hour while the rain fell and the sea slap along our side and the steam flutter drearily through the escape. then we go ahead. 
the st. lawrence on the last day of the voyage play up nobly. the maple along it bank have turn blood red and splendid a the banner of lose youth. even the oak be not more of a national tree than the maple and the sight of it welcome make the folk aboard still more happy. a dry wind bring along all the clean smell of their continent mix odour of saw lumber virgin earth and wood smoke. and they snuff it and their eye soften a they identify point after point along their own beloved river place where they play and fish and amuse themselves in holiday time. it must be pleasant to have a country of one s very own to show off. understand they do not in any way boast shout squeak or exclaim these even voice return men and woman. they be simply and unfeignedly glad to see home again and they say. isn t it lovely. don t you think it s beautiful. we love it. 
at quebec there be a sort of place much infest by locomotive like a coal chute whence rise the height that wolfe s men scale on their way to the plain of abraham. perhaps of all the tide mark in all our land the affair of quebec touch the heart and the eye more nearly than any other. everything meet there. france the jealous partner of england s glory by land and sea for eight hundred year. england bewilder a usual but for a wonder not openly oppose pitt who know. those other people destine to break from england a soon a the french peril be remove. montcalm himself doom and resolute. wolfe the inevitable train workman appoint for the finish. and somewhere in the background one jam cook master of h. m. s. mercury_ make beautiful and delicate chart of the st. lawrence river. 
for these reason the plain of abraham be crown with all sort of beautiful thing include a jail and a factory. montcalm s leave wing be mark by the jail and wolfe s right by the factory. there be happily now a movement on foot to abolish these adornment and turn the battle field and it surround into a park which by nature and association would be one of the most beautiful in our world. 
yet in spite of jail on the one side and convent on the other and the thin black wreck of the quebec railway bridge lie like a dump car load of tin can in the river the eastern gate to canada be noble with a dignity beyond word. we saw it very early when the under side of the cloud turn chilly pink over a high pile brood dusky purple city. just at the point of dawn what look like the sultan harun al raschid s own private shallop all spangle with colour light steal across the iron grey water and disappear into the darkness of a slip. she come out again in three minute but the full day have come too. so she snap off her masthead steer and cabin electric and turn into a dingy white ferryboat full of cold passenger. i speak to a canadian about her. why she s the old so and so to port levi he answer wonder a the cockney wonder when a strange stare at an inner circle train. this be his inner circle the zion where he be all at ease. he draw my attention to stately city and stately river with the same tranquil pride that we each feel when the visitor step across our own threshold whether that be southampton water on a grey wavy morning. sydney harbour with a regatta in full swing. or table mountain radiant and new wash after the christmas rain. he have quite rightly felt personally responsible for the weather and every flame stretch of maple since we have enter the river. the north west in these part be equivalent to the south easter elsewhere and may impress a guest unfavourably. 
then the autumn sun rise and the man smile. personally and politically he say he loathe the city but it be his. 
well he ask at last what do you think. not so bad. 
oh no. not at all so bad i answer. and it wasn t till much late that i realise that we have exchange the countersign which run clear round the empire. 
a people at home. 
an up country proverb say she be bid to the wed and set down to grind corn. the same fate reverse overtake me on my little excursion. there be a crafty network of organisation of business men call canadian club. they catch people who look interest assemble their member during the mid day lunch hour and tie the victim to a steak bid him discourse on anything that he think he know. the idea might be copy elsewhere since it take men out of themselves to listen to matter not otherwise come under their notice and at the same time doe not hamper their work. it be safely short too. the whole affair cannot exceed an hour of which the lunch fill half. the club print their speech annually and one get cross section of many interest question from practical forestry to state mint all set out by expert. 
not be an expert the experience to me be very like hard work. till then i have think speech make be a sort of conversational whist that any one could cut in at it. i perceive now that it be an art of convention remote from anything that come out of an inkpot and of colour hard to control. the canadian seem to like listen to speech and though this be by no mean a national vice they make good oratory on occasion. you know the old belief that the white man on brown red or black land will throw back in manner and instinct to the type originally breed there. thus a speech in the taal should carry the deep roll the direct belly appeal the reiterate cunning argument and the few simple metaphor of the prince of commercial orator the bantu. a new zealander be say to speak from his diaphragm hand clench at the side a the old maori use. what we know of first class australian oratory show u the same alertness swift flight and clean delivery a a throw boomerang. i have half expect in canadian speech some survival of the redskin s elaborate appeal to sun moon and mountain touch of grandiosity and ceremonial invocation. but nothing that i hear be referable to any primitive stock. there be a dignity a restraint and above all a weight in it rather curious when one think of the influence to which the land lie open. red it be not. french it be not. but a thing a much by itself a the speaker. 
so with the canadian s few gesture and the bear of his body. during the. boer. war one watch the contingent from every point of view and most likely draw wrong inference. it strike me then that the canadian even when tire slack off le than the men from the hot country and while rest do not lie on his back or his belly but rather on his side a leg double under him ready to rise in one surge. 
this time while i watch assembly seat men in hotel and passer by i fancy that he keep this habit of semi tenseness at home among his own. that it be the complement of the man s still countenance and his even lower voice. look at their footmark on the grind they seem to throw an almost straight track neither splay nor in toe and to set their foot down with a gentle forward pressure rather like the australian s stealthy footfall. talk among themselves or wait for friend they do not drum with their finger fiddle with their foot or feel the hair on their face. these thing seem trivial enough but when breed be in the make everything be worth while. a man tell me once but i never try the experiment that each of our four race light and handle fire in their own way. 
small wonder we differ. here be a people with no people at their back drive the great world plough which win the world s bread up and up over the shoulder of the world a spectacle a it might be out of some tremendous norse legend. north of them lie niflheim s endure cold with the flick and crackle of the aurora for bifrost bridge that odin and the aesir visit. these people also go north year by year and drag audacious railway with them. sometimes they burst into good wheat or timber land sometimes into mine of treasure and all the north be foil of voice a south africa be once tell discovery and make prophecy. 
when their winter come over the great part of this country outside the city they must sit still and eat and drink a the aesir do. in summer they cram twelve month work into six because between such and such date certain far river will shut and late certain others till at last even the great eastern gate at quebec lock and men must go in and out by the side door at halifax and st. john. these be condition that make for extreme boldness but not for extravagant boasting. 
the maple tell when it be time to finish and all work in hand be regulate by their warn signal. some job can be put through before winter. others must be lay aside ready to jump forward without a lose minute in spring. thus from quebec to calgary a note of drive not hustle but drive and finish up hum like the steam thresher on the still autumn air. 
hunter and sportsman be come in from the north. prospector with them their face foil of mystery their pocket full of sample like prospector the world over. they have already be wear wolf and coon skin coat. in the great city which work the year round carriage shop exhibit one or two seductive nickel plat sledge a a hint. for the sleigh be the chariot at hand here of love. in the country the farmhouse be stack up their wood pile within reach of the kitchen door and take down the fly screen. one leaf these on a a rule till the double window be bring up from the cellar and one ha to hunt all over the house for miss screw. sometimes one saw a few flash length of new stovepipe in a backyard and pity the owner. there be no humour in the old bitter true stovepipe jest of the comic paper. 
but the railway the wonderful railway tell the winter s tale most emphatically. the thirty ton coal car be move over three thousand mile of track. they grunt and lurch against each other in the switch yard or thump past statelily at midnight on their way to provident housekeeper of the prairie town. it be not a clear way either. for the bacon the lard the apple the butter and the cheese in beautiful whitewood barrel be roll eastward toward the steamer before the wheat should descend on them. that be the fifth act of the great year play for which the stage must be clear. on score of congest siding lay huge girder roll beam limb and box of rivet once intend for the late quebec bridge now so much mere obstruction and the victual have to pick their way through em. and behind the victual be the lumber clean wood out of the mountain log plank clapboard and lath for which we pay such sinful price in england all seek the sea. there be house food and fuel for million on wheel together and never a grain yet shift of the real staple which men for five hundred mile be thresh out in heap a high a fifty pound villa. 
add to this that the railway be concern for their own new development double tracking loop cutoff tap and feeder line and great swoop out into untouched land soon to be fill with men. so the construction ballast and material train the grade machine the wreck car with their camel like sneer crane the whole plant of a new civilisation have to find room somewhere in the general rally before nature cry lay off. 
doe any one remember that joyful strong confidence after the war when it seem that at last south africa be to be develop when men lay out railway and give order for engine and fresh roll stock and labour and believe gloriously in the future. it be true the hope be murder afterward but multiply that good hour by a thousand and you will have some idea of how it feel to be in canada a place which even an imperial government cannot kill. i have the luck to be show some thing from the inside to listen to the detail of work project. the record of work do. above all i saw what have actually be achieve in the fifteen year since i have last come that way. one advantage of a new land be that it make you feel old than time. i meet city where there have be nothing literally absolutely nothing except a the fairy tale say the bird cry and the grass wave in the wind. village and hamlet have grow to great town and the great town themselves have treble and quadruple. and the railway rub their hand and cry like the afrites of old shall we make a city where no city be. or render flourish a city that be dasolate. they do it too while across the water gentleman never force to suffer one day s physical discomfort in all their life pipe up and say how grossly materialistic. 
i wonder sometimes whether any eminent novelist philosopher dramatist or divine of to day ha to exercise half the pure imagination not to mention insight endurance and self restraint which be accept without comment in what be call the material exploitation of a new country. take only the question of create a new city at the junction of two line all three in the air. the mere drama of it the play of the human virtue would fill a book. and when the work be finish when the city be when the new line embrace a new belt of farm and the tide of the wheat ha roll north another unexpected degree the men who do it break off without compliment to repeat the joke elsewhere. 
i have some talk with a youngish man whose business it be to train avalanche to jump clear of his section of the track. thor go to jotunheim only once or twice and he have his useful hammer miolnr with him. this thor live in jotunheim among the green ice crown peak of the selkirk where if you disturb the giant at certain season of the year by make noise they will sit upon you and all your fine emotion. so thor watch them glare under the may sun or dull and doubly dangerous beneath the spring rain. he ward off their stroke with enormous brattice of wood wing wall of log bolt together and such other contraption a experience teach. he bear the giant no malice. they do their work he his. what bother him a little be that the wind of their blow sometimes rip pine out of the opposite hill side explode a it be a whole valley. he think however he can fix thing so a to split large avalanche into little one. 
another man to whom i do not talk stick in my memory. he have for year and year inspect train at the head of a heavyish grade in the mountain though not half so steep a the hex[ ] where all brake be jam home and the car slither warily for ten mile. tire trouble there would be inconvenient so he a the best man be give the heavy job monotony and responsibility combine. he do me the honour of want to speak to me but first he inspect his train on all four with a hammer. by the time he be satisfy of the integrity of the underpinnings it be time for u to go. and all that i get be a friendly wave of the hand a master craftsman s sign you might call it. 
[footnote. hex river south africa. ]. 
canada seem full of this class of materialist. 
which remind me that the other day i saw the lady herself in the shape of a tall woman of twenty five or six wait for her tram on a street corner. she wear her almost flaxen gold hair wave and part low on the forehead beneath a black astrachan toque with a red enamel maple leaf hatpin in one side of it. this be the one touch of colour except the flicker of a buckle on the shoe. the dark tailor make dress have no trinket or attachment but fit perfectly. she stand for perhaps a minute without any movement both hand right bare leave gloved hang naturally at her side the very finger still the weight of the superb body carry evenly on both foot and the profile which be that of gudrun or aslauga throw out against a dark stone column. what strike me most next to the grave tranquil eye be her slow unhurried breathe in the hurry about her. she be evidently a regular fare for when her tram stop she smile at the lucky conductor. and the last i saw of her be a flash of the sun on the red maple leaf the full face still light by that smile and her hair very pale gold against the dead black fur. but the power of the mouth the wisdom of the brow the human comprehension of the eye and the outstriking vitality of the creature remain. that be how i would have my country draw be i a canadian and hang in ottawa parliament house for the discouragement of prevaricator. 
city and space. 
what would you do with a magic carpet if one be lend you. i ask because for a month we have a private car of our very own a trifle affair le than seventy foot long and thirty ton weight. you may find her useful say the donor casually to knock about the country. hitch on to any train you choose and stop off where you choose. 
so she bore u over the c. p. r. from the atlantic to the pacific and back and when we have no more need of her vanish like the mango tree after the trick. 
a private car though many book have be write in it be hardly the best place from which to study a country unless it happen that you have keep house and see the season round under normal condition on the same continent. then you know how the car look from the house. which be not in the least a the house look from the car. then the very porter s brush in it nickel clip the long cathedral like aisle between the well know green seat the toll of the bell and the deep organ like note of the engine wake up memory. and every sight smell and sound outside be like old friend remember old day together. a piano top buggy on a muddy board sidewalked street all cut up by the narrow tire. the shingle at the corner of a veranda on a new build house. a break snake fence girdle an old pasture of mullein and skull head boulder. a wisp of virginia creeper die splendidly on the edge of a patch of corn. half a dozen panel of snow fence above a cut or even a shameless patent medicine advertisement yellow on the black of a tobacco barn can make the heart thump and the eye fill if the beholder have only touch the life of which they be part. what must they mean to the native bear. there be a prairie breed girl on the train come back after a year on the continent for whom the pine belt hill with real mountain behind the solemn loop of the river and the intimate friendly farm have nothing to tell. 
you can do these landscape good in italy she explain and with the indescribable gesture of plain folk stifle in break grind i want to push these hill away and get into the open again. i m winnipeg. 
she would have understand that hanover road schoolmistress back from a visit to cape town whom i once saw drive off into thirty mile of mirage almost shout thank god here s something like home at last. 
other people ricochet from side to side of the car revive this rediscover that anticipate t other thing which sure enough slide round the next curve to meet them care nothing if all the world know they be home again. and the newly arrive englishman with his large wooden pack case mark settler effect have no more part in the show than a new boy his first day at school. but two year in canada and one run home will make him free of the brotherhood in canada a it doe anywhere else. he may grumble at certain aspect of the life lament certain richness only to be find in england but a surely a he grumble so surely he return to the big sky and the big chance. the failure be those who complain that the land doe not know a gentleman when it see him. they be quite right. the land suspend all judgment on all men till it ha see them work. thereafter a may be. but work they must because there be a very great deal to be do. 
unluckily the railroad which make the country be bring in person who be particular a to the nature and amenity of their work and if so be they do not find precisely what they be look for they complain in print which make all men seem equal. 
the special joy of our trip lay in have travel the line when it be new and like the canada of those day not much believe in when all the high and important official whose little finger unhook car be also small and disregard. to day thing men and city be different and the story of the line mix itself up with the story of the country the while the car wheel click out john kino john kino. nagasaki yokohama hakodate heh. for we be follow in the wake of the imperial limit all full of hongkong and treaty port men. there be old know and wonderfully grow city to be look at before we could get away to the new work out west and what d you think of this build and that suburb. they say imperiously. come out and see what ha be do in this generation. 
the impact of a continent be rather overwhelm till you remind yourself that it be no more than your own joy and love and pride in your own patch of garden write a little large over a few more acre. again a always it be the dignity of the city that impress an austere northern dignity of outline group and perspective aloof from the rush of traffic in the street. montreal of the black frock priest and the french notice have it. and ottawa of the grey stone palace and the st. petersburg like shin water frontage. and toronto consumingly commercial carry the same power in the same repose. men be always build good than they know and perhaps this steadfast architecture be wait for the race when their first flurry of newly realise expansion shall have spend itself and the present hurrah s nest of telephone pole in the street shall have be abolish. there be strong objection to any non fusible bi lingual community within a nation but however much the french be make to hang back in the work of development their withdraw and unconcerned cathedral school and convent and one aspect of the spirit that breathe from them make for good. say young canada. there be million of dollar worth of church property in the city which aren t allow to be tax. on the other hand the catholic school and university though they be report to keep up the old medieval mistrust of greek teach the classic a lovingly tenderly and intimately a the old church ha always teach them. after all it must be worth something to say your prayer in a dialect of the tongue that virgil handle. and a certain touch of insolence more magnificent and more ancient than the insolence of present materialism make a good blend in a new land. 
i have the good fortune to see the city through the eye of an englishman out for the first time. have you be to the bank. he cry. i ve never see anything like it. what s the matter with the bank. i ask. for the financial situation across the border be at that moment more than usual picturesque. it s wonderful. say he. marble pillar acre of mosaic steel grille might be a cathedral. no one ever tell me. i shouldn t worry over a bank that pay it depositor i reply soothingly. there be several like it in ottawa and toronto. next he run across some picture in some palace and be downright angry because no one have tell him that there be five priceless private gallery in one city. look here. he explain. i ve be see corot and greuzes and gainsborough and a holbein and and hundred of really splendid picture. why shouldn t you. i say. they ve give up paint their lodge with vermilion hereabouts. yes but what i mean be have you see the equipment of their school and college desk library and lavatory. it s mile ahead of anything we have and no one ever tell me. what be the good of tell. you wouldn t have believe. there s a build in one of the city on the line of the sheldonian but good and if you go a far a winnipeg you ll see the fine hotel in all the world. 
nonsense. he say. you re pull my leg. winnipeg s a prairie town. 
i leave him still lament about a club and a gymnasium this time that no one have ever tell him about. and still doubt all that he have hear of wonder to come. 
if we could only manacle four hundred member of parliament like the chinese in the election cartoon and walk them round the empire what an all comprehend little empire we should be when the survivor get home. 
certainly the city have good right to be proud and i wait for them to boast. but they be so busy explain they be only at the begin of thing that for the honour of the family i have to do the boast. in this praiseworthy game i credit melbourne. rightly i hope but the pace be too good to inquire. with acre of municipal building and league of art gallery. enlarge the border of sydney harbour to meet a statement about toronto s wharfage. and recommend folk to see cape town cathedral when it should be finish. but truth will out even on a visit. our eldest sister ha more of beauty and strength inside her three city alone than the rest of u put together. yet it would do her no harm to send a commission through the ten great city of the empire to see what be be do there in the way of street clean water supply and traffic regulation. 
here and there the people be infect with the unworthy superstition of hustle which mean half do your appoint job and applaud your own slapdasherie for a long a time a would enable you to finish off two clean piece of work. little congestion of traffic that an english rural policeman in a country town disentangle automatically be allow to develop into ten minute block where wagon and men bang and back and blaspheme for no purpose except to waste time. 
the assembly and dispersal of crowd purchase of ticket and a good deal of the small machinery of life be clog and hamper by this unstable southern spirit which be own brother to panic. hustle doe not sit well on the national character any more than falsetto or fidget become grow men. drive a laudable and necessary quality be quite different and one meet it up the western road where the new country be be make. 
we get clean away from the three city and the close till farm and orchard district into the land of little lake a country of rush stream clear eye pond and boulder among berry bush. all cry trout and bear. 
not so very long ago only a few wise people keep holiday in that part of the world and they do not give away their discovery. now it ha become a summer playground where people hunt and camp at large. the name of it further river be know in england and men otherwise sane slip away from london into the birch and come out again beard and smoke stain when the ice be thick enough to cut a canoe. sometimes they go to look for game. sometimes for mineral perhaps even oil. no one can prophesy. we be only at the begin of thing. 
say an afrite of the railway a we pass in our magic carpet. you ve no notion of the size of our tourist traffic. it ha all grow up since the early ninety. the trolley car teach people in the town to go for little picnic. when they get more money they go for long one. all this continent will want playground soon. we re get them ready. 
the girl from winnipeg saw the morning frost lie white on the long grass at the lake edge and watch the haze of mellow golden birch leaf a they drop. now that s the way tree ought to turn she say. don t you think our eastern maple be a little violent in colour. then we pass through a country where for many hour the talk in the car be of mine and the treatment of ore. men tell one tale prospector yarn of the sort one use to hear vaguely before klondike or nome be public property. they do not care whether one believe or doubt. they too be only at the begin of thing silver perhaps gold perhaps nickel perhaps. if a great city do not arise at such a place the very name be new since my day it would assuredly be bear within a few mile of it. the silent men board the car and drop off and disappear beyond thicket and hill precisely a the first widely space line of skirmisher fan out and vanish along the front of the day s battle. 
one old man sit before me like avenge time itself and talk of prophecy of evil that have be falsify. they say there wasn t nothing here excep rock an snow. they say there never wouldn t be nothing here excep the railroad. there s them that can t see yit_ and he gimleted me with a fierce eye. an all the while fortune be make pile be make right under our nose. 
have you make your pile. i ask. 
he smile a the artist smile all true prospector have that lofty smile me. no. i ve be a prospector most o my time but i haven t lose anything. i ve have my fun out of the game. by god i ve have my fun out of it. 
i tell him how i have once come through when land and timber grant could have be pick up for half le than nothing. 
yes he say placidly. i reckon if you d have any kind of an education you could ha make a quarter of a million dollar easy in those day. and it s to be make now if you could see where. how. can you tell me what the capital of the hudson bay district s goin to be. you can t. nor i. nor yet where the six next new city be go to arise i get off here but if i have my health i ll be out next summer again prospectin north. 
imagine a country where men prospect till they be seventy with no fear of fever fly horse sickness or trouble from the native a country where food and water always taste good. he tell me curious thing about some fabled gold the eternal mother lode out in the north which be to humble the pride of nome. and yet so vast be the empire he have never hear the name of johannesburg. 
a the train swing round the shore of lake superior the talk swing over to wheat. oh yes men say there be mine in the country they be only at the begin of mine but that part of the world exist to clean and grade and handle and deliver the wheat by rail and steamer. the track be be duplicate by a few hundred mile to keep abreast of the flood of it. by and by it might be a four track road. they be only at the begin. meantime here be the wheat sprout tender green a foot high among a hundred siding where it have spill from the car. there be the high shoulder tea caddy grain elevator to clean and the hospital to doctor the wheat. here be new gaily paint machinery go forward to reap and bind and thresh the wheat and all those car load of workman have be slap down more siding against the year s delivery of the wheat. 
two town stand on the shore of the lake le than a mile apart. what lloyd s be to ship or the college of surgeon to medicine that they be to the wheat. it honour and integrity be in their hand. and they hate each other with the pure poisonous passionate hatred which make town grow. if providence wipe out one of them the survivor would pine away and die a mateless hate bird. some day they must unite and the question of the composite name they shall then carry already vex them. a man there tell me that lake superior be a useful piece of water in that it lay so handy to the c. p. r. track. there be a quiet horror about the great lake which grow a one revisit them. fresh water ha no right or call to dip over the horizon pull down and push up the hull of big steamer. no right to tread the slow deep sea dance step between wrinkle cliff. nor to roar in on weed and sand beach between vast headland that run out for league into haze and sea fog. lake superior be all the same stuff a what town pay tax for but it engulf and wreck and drive ashore like a fully accredit ocean a hideous thing to find in the heart of a continent. some people go sail on it for pleasure and it ha produce a breed of sailor who bear the same relation to the salt water variety a a snake charmer doe to a lion tame. 
yet it be undoubtedly a useful piece of water. 
newspaper and democracy. 
let it be grant that a the loud voice herald hire by the eolithic tribe to cry the news of the come day along the cave precede the choose tribal bard who sing the more picturesque history of the tribe so be journalism senior to literature in that journalism meet the first tribal need after warmth food and woman. 
in new country it show clear trace of it descent from the tribal herald. a tribe thinly occupy large space feel lonely. it desire to hear the roll call of it member cry often and loudly. to comfort itself with the knowledge that there be companion just below the horizon. it employ therefore herald to name and describe all who pas. that be why newspaper of new country seem often so outrageously personal. the tribe moreover need quick and sure knowledge of everything that touch on it daily life in the big space earth air and water news which the old people have put behind them. that be why it newspaper so often seem so laboriously trivial. 
for example a red nose member of the tribe pete o halloran come in thirty mile to have his horse shoe and incidentally smash the king bolt of his buckboard at a bad place in the road. the tribal herald a thin weekly with a patent inside connect the red nose and the breakdown with an innuendo which to the outsider be clumsy libel. but the tribal herald understand that two and seventy family of the tribe may use that road weekly. it concern them to discover whether the accident be due to pete be drink or a pete protest to the neglect state of the road. fifteen men happen to know that pete s nose be an affliction not an indication. one of them loaf across and explain to the tribal herald who next week cry aloud that the road ought to be mend. meantime pete warm to the marrow at have focus the attention of his tribe for a few moment retire thirty mile up stage pursue by advertisement of buckboard guarantee not to break their king bolt and late. which be what the tribe be after all the time. some tribal authority or other mend the road. 
this be only a big scale diagram but with a little attention you can see the tribal instinct of self preservation quite logically underrunning all sort of queer modern development. 
a the tribe grow and men do not behold the horizon from edge to unbroken edge their desire to know all about the next man weaken a little but not much. outside the city be still the long distance the vast unoccupied area of the advertisement. and the men who come and go yearn to keep touch with and report themselves a of old to their lodge. a man step out of the dark into the circle of the fire naturally if he be a true man hold up his hand and say i so and so be here. you can watch the ritual in full swing at any hotel when the reporter. pro tribal herald. run his eye down the list of arrival and before he can turn from the register be meet by the newcomer who without special desire for notoriety explain his business and intention. observe it be always at even that the reporter concern himself with stranger. by day he follow the activity of his own city and the do of nearby chief. but when it be time to close the stockade to laager the wagon to draw the thorn bush back into the gap then in all land he revert to the tribal herald who be also the tribal out guard. 
there be country where a man be indecently paw over by chatter herald who bob their foul torch in his face till he be sing and smoke at once. in canada the necessary stand and deliver your sentiment go through with the large decency that stamp all the dominion. a strange s word be pass on to the tribe quite accurately. no dirt be put into his mouth and where the herald judge that it would be good not to translate certain remark they courteously explain why. 
it be always delightful to meet the reporter for they be men interest in their land with the keen unselfish interest that one find in young house surgeon or civilian. thank to the. boer. war many of them have reach out to the end of our earth and speak of the sister nation a it do one good to hear. consequently the interview which be a dreary for the reporter a the report often turn into pleasant and unpublished talk. one felt at every turn of the quick sentence to be deal with make and train player of the game balance men who believe in decency not to be disregard confidence not to be violate and honour not to be mock. this may explain what men and woman have tell me that there be very little of the brutal domestic terrorism of the press in canada and not much blackmail. they neither spat nor wriggle. they interpolate no juicy anecdote of murder or theft among their acquaintance. and not once between either ocean do they or any other fellow subject volunteer that their country be law abide. 
you know the first sign post on the great main road. when a woman advertise that she be virtuous a man that he be a gentleman a community that it be loyal or a country that it be law abide go the other way. 
yet while the men s talk be so good and new their write word seem to be cast in conventional not to say old fashion mould. a quarter of a century ago a sub editor open his mail could identify the melbourne argus_ the sydney morning herald_ or the cape time a far a he could see them. even unheaded clipping from them declare their origin a a piece of hide betray the beast that wear it. but he notice then that canadian journal leave neither spoor nor scent might have blow in from anywhere between thirty degree of latitude and have to be carefully identify by hand. to day the space the headline the advertise of canadian paper the chessboard like look of the open page which should be a daily beautiful study in black and white the brittle pulp paper the machine set type be all a standardise a the railway car of the continent. indeed look through a mass of canadian journal be like try to find one s own sleeper in a corridor train. newspaper office be among the most conservative organisation in the world. but surely after twenty five year some change might be permit to creep in. some original convention of expression or assembly might be develop. 
i draw up to this idea cautiously among a knot of fellow craftsman. you mean say one straight eye youth that we be a back number copy back number. 
it be precisely what i do mean so i make haste to deny it. we know that he say cheerfully. remember we haven t the sea all round u and the postal rate to england have only just be lower. it will all come right. 
surely it will. but meantime one hate to think of these splendid people use second class word to express first class emotion. 
and so naturally from journalism to democracy. every country be entitle to her reservation and pretence but the more democratic a land be the more make belief must the strange respect. some of the tribal herald be very good to me in this matter and a it be nudge me when it be time to duck in the house of rimmon. during their office hour they profess an unflinching belief in the bless word democracy which mean any crowd on the move that be to say the helpless thing which break through floor and fall into cellar. overturn pleasure boat by rush from port to starboard. stamp men into pulp because it think it ha lose sixpence and jam and grill in the doorway of blaze theatre. out of office like every one else they relax. many wink a few be flippant but they all agree that the only drawback to democracy be demo a jealous god of primitive taste and despotic tendency. i receive a faithful portrait of him from a politician who have worship him all his life. it be practically the epistle of jeremy the sixth chapter of baruch do into unquotable english. 
but canada be not yet an ideal democracy. for one thing she ha have to work hard among rough edge surround which carry inevitable consequence. for another the law in canada exist and be administer not a a surprise a joke a favour a bribe or a wrestle turk exhibition but a an integral part of the national character no more to be forget or talk about than one s trouser. if you kill you hang. if you steal you go to jail. this ha work toward peace self respect and i think the innate dignity of the people. on the other hand which be where the trouble will begin railway and steamer make it possible nowadays to bring in person who need never lose touch of hot and cold water tap spread table and crockery till they be turn out much surprise into the wilderness. they clean miss the long week of salt water and the slow passage across the plain which pickle and tan the early emigrant. they arrive with soft body and unaired soul. i have this vividly bring home to me by a man on a train among the selkirk. he stand on the safely rail rear platform look at the gigantic pine furred shoulder round which men at their life risk have lead every yard of the track and chirrup. i say why can t all this be nationalise. there be nothing under heaven except the snow and the steep to prevent him from drop off the car and hunt a mine for himself. instead of which he go into the din car. that be one type. 
a man tell me the old tale of a crowd of russian immigrant who at a big fire in a city verted to the ancestral type and block the street yell down with the czar. that be another type. a few day late i be show a wire state that a community of doukhobors russian again have not for the first time undress themselves and be flee up the track to meet the messiah before the snow fell. police be pursue them with warm underclothing and train would please take care not to run over them. 
so there you have three sort of steam bear unfitness soft savage and mad. there be a fourth brand which may be either home grow or import but democracy do not recognise it of downright bad folk grow healthy men and woman who honestly rejoice in do evil. these four class act together might conceivably produce a rather pernicious democracy. alien hysteria blood craze and the like reinforce local ignorance sloth and arrogance. for example i read a letter in a paper sympathise with these same doukhobors. the writer know a community of excellent people in england. you see where the rot start. who live barefoot pay no tax eat nut and be above marriage. they be a soulful folk live pure life. the doukhobors be also pure and soulful entitle in a free country to live their own life and not to be oppress etc. etc. import soft observe play up to import mad. meantime disgust police be chase the doukhobors into flannel that they might live to produce child fit to consort with the son of the man who write that letter and the daughter of the crowd that lose their head at the fire. 
all of which men and woman answer we admit. but what can we do. we want people. and they show vast and well equip school where the child of slav immigrant be teach english and the song of canada. when they grow up people say you can t tell them from canadian. it be a wonderful work. the teacher hold up pen reel and so forth give the name in english. the child repeat chinese fashion. presently when they have enough word they can bridge back to the knowledge they learn in their own country so that a boy of twelve at say the end of a year will produce a well write english account of his journey from russia how much his mother pay for food by the way and where his father get his first job. he will also lay his hand on his heart and say i be a canadian. this gratify the canadian who naturally purr over an emigrant owe everything to the land which adopt him and set him on his foot. the lady bountiful of an english village take the same interest in a child she ha help on in the world. and the child repay by his gratitude and good behaviour. 
personally one cannot care much for those who have renounce their own country. they may have have good reason but they have break the rule of the game and ought to be penalise instead of add to their score. nor be it true a men pretend that a few full meal and fine clothe obliterate all taint of alien instinct and reversion. a thousand year cannot be a yesterday for mankind. and one ha only to glance at the race across the border to realise how in outlook manner expression and morale the south and south east profoundly and fatally affect the north and north west. that be why the sight of the beady eye muddy skin aproned woman with handkerchief on their head and oriental bundle in their hand always distress one. 
but why must you get this stuff. i ask. you know it be not your equal and it know that it be not your equal. and that be bad for you both. what be the matter with the english a immigrant. 
the answer be explicit. because the english do not work. because we be sick of remittance men and loafer send out here. because the english be rotten with socialism. because the english don t fit with our life. they kick at our way of do thing. they be always tell u how thing be do in england. they carry frill. don t you know the story of the englishman who lose his way and be find half dead of thirst beside a river. when he be ask why he didn t drink he say how the deuce can i without a glass. 
but i argue over three thousand mile of country all these be excellent reason for bring in the englishman. it be true that in his own country he be teach to shirk work because kind silly people fall over each other to help and debauch and amuse him. here general january will stiffen him up. remittance men be an affliction to every branch of the family but your manner and moral can t be so tender a to suffer from a few thousand of them among your six million. a to the englishman s socialism he be by nature the most unsocial animal alive. what you call socialism be his intellectual equivalent for diabolo and limerick competition. a to his criticism you surely wouldn t marry a woman who agree with you in everything and you ought to choose your immigrant on the same line. you admit that the canadian be too busy to kick at anything. the englishman be a bear kicker. yes he be all that they say. he kick on principle and that be what make for civilisation. so do your englishman s instinct about the glass. every new country need vitally need one half of one per cent of it population train to die of thirst rather than drink out of their hand. you be always talk of the second generation of your smyrniotes and bessarabians. think what the second generation of the english be. 
they think quite visibly but they do not much seem to relish it. there be a queer stringhalt in their talk a conversational shy across the road when one touch on these subject. after a while i go to a tribal herald whom i could trust and demand of him point blank where the trouble really lay and who be behind it. 
it be labour he say. you have good leave it alone. 
labour. 
one cannot leave a thing alone if it be thrust under the nose at every turn. i have not quit the quebec steamer three minute when i be ask point blank. what do you think of the question of asiatic exclusion which be agitate our community. 
the second sign post on the great main road say. if a community be agitate by a question inquire politely after the health of the agitator this i do without success. and have to temporise all across the continent till i could find some one to help me to acceptable answer. the question appear to be confine to british columbia. there after a while the men who have their own reason for not wish to talk refer me to others who explain and on the acute understand that no name be to be publish. it be sweet to see engineer afraid of be hoist by their own petard. one get more or le at something like fact. 
the chinaman ha always be in the habit of come to british columbia where he make a he doe elsewhere the fine servant in the world. no one i be assure on all hand object to the biddable chinaman. he take work which no white man in a new country will handle and when kick by the mean white will not grossly retaliate. he ha always pay for the privilege of make his fortune on this wonderful coast but with singular forethought and statesmanship the popular will some few year ago decide to double the head tax on his entry. strange a it may appear the chinaman now charge double for his service and be scarce at that. this be say to be one of the reason why overwork white woman die or go off their head. and why in new city you can see block of flat be build to minimise the inconvenience of housekeep without help. the birth rate will fall late in exact proportion to those flat. 
since the russo japanese war the japanese have take to come over to british columbia. they also do work which no white man will. such a haul wet log for lumber mill out of cold water at from eight to ten shilling a day. they supply the service in hotel and din room and keep small shop. the trouble with them be that they be just a little too good and when attack defend themselves with asperity. 
a fair sprinkle of punjabi ex soldier sikh muzbis and jat be come in on the boat. the plague at home seem to have make them restless but i could not gather why so many of them come from shahpur phillour and jullundur way. these men do not of course offer for house service but work in the lumber mill and with the least little care and attention could be make most valuable. some one ought to tell them not to bring their old men with them and good arrangement should be make for their remit money home to their village. they be not understand of course. but they be not hat. 
the objection be all against the japanese. so far except that they be say to have capture the local fish trade at vancouver precisely a the malay control the cape town fish business they have not yet compete with the white. but i be earnestly assure by many men that there be danger of their lower the standard of life and wage. the demand therefore in certain quarter be that they go absolutely and unconditionally. you may have notice that democracy be strong on the imperative mood. an attempt be make to shift them shortly before i come to vancouver but it be not very successful because the japanese barricade their quarter and flock out a break bottle hold by the neck in either hand which they jab in the face of the demonstrator. it be perhaps easy to haze and hammer bewilder hindu and tamil a be be do across the border than to stampede the men of the yalu and liaoyang. [ ]. 
[footnote. battle in the russo japanese war. ]. 
but when one begin to ask question one get lose in a maze of hint reservation and oration mostly deliver with constraint a though the talker be say a piece learn by heart. here be some sample. 
a man pen me in a corner with a single heavily capitalise sentence. there be a general sentiment among our people that the japanese must go say he. 
very good say i. how d you propose to set about it. 
that be nothing to u. there be a general sentiment etc. 
quite so. sentiment be a beautiful thing but what be you go to do. he do not condescend to particular but keep repeat the sentiment which a i promise i record. 
another man be a little more explicit. we desire he say to keep the chinaman. but the japanese must go. 
then who take their place. isn t this rather a new country to pitch people out of. 
we must develop our resource slowly sir with an eye to the interest of our child. we must preserve the continent for race which will assimilate with ours. we must not be swamp by alien. 
then bring in your own race and bring em in quick i venture. 
this be the one remark one must not make in certain quarter of the west. and i lose caste heavily while he explain. exactly a the dutch do at the cape year ago. how british columbia be by no mean so rich a she appear. that she be throttle by capitalist and monopolist of all kind. that white labour have to be lay off and feed and warm during the winter. that live expense be enormously high. that they be at the end of a period of prosperity and be now enter on lean year. and that whatever step be necessary for bring in more white people should be take with extreme caution. then he add that the railway rate to british columbia be so high that emigrant be debar from come on there. 
but haven t the rate be reduce. i ask. 
yes yes i believe they have but immigrant be so much in demand that they be snap up before they have get so far west. you must remember too that skilled labour be not like agricultural labour. it be dependent on so many consideration. and the japanese must go. 
so people have tell me. but i hear story of dairy and fruit farm in british columbia be throw up because there be no labour to milk or pick the fruit. be that true d you think. 
well you can t expect a man with all the chance that our country offer him to milk cow in a pasture. a chinaman can do that. we want race that will assimilate with ours etc. etc. 
but didn t the salvation army offer to bring in three or four thousand english some short time ago. what come of that idea. 
it er fell through. 
why. 
for political reason i believe. we do not want people who will low the standard of live. that be why the japanese must go. 
then why keep the chinese. 
we can get on with the chinese. we can t get on without the chinese. but we must have emigration of a type that will assimilate with our people. i hope i have make myself clear. 
i hop that he have too. 
now hear a wife a mother and a housekeeper. 
we have to pay for this precious state of thing with our health and our child s. do you know the say that the frontier be hard on woman and cattle. this isn t the frontier but in some respect it s bad because we have all the luxury and appearance the pretty glass and silver to put on the table. we have to dust polish and arrange em after we ve do our housework. i don t suppose that mean anything to you but try it for a month. we have no help. a chinaman cost fifty or sixty dollar a month now. our husband can t always afford that. how old would you take me for. i m not thirty. well thank god i stop my sister come out west. oh yes it s a fine country for men. 
can t you import servant from england. 
i can t pay a girl s passage in order to have her marry in three month. besides she wouldn t work. they win t when they see chinaman work. 
do you object to the japanese too. 
of course not. no one doe. it s only politics. the wife of the men who earn six and seven dollar a day skilled labour they call it have chinese and jap servant. we can t afford it. we have to think of save for the future but those other people live up to every cent they earn. they know they re all right. they re labour. they ll be look after whatever happen. you can see how the state look after me. 
a little late i have occasion to go through a great and beautiful city between six and seven of a crisp morning. milk and fish vegetable etc. be be deliver to the silent house by chinese and japanese. not a single white man be visible on that chilly job. 
late still a man come to see me without too publicly give his name. he be in a small way of business and tell me. others have say much the same thing. that if i give him away his business would suffer. he talk for half an hour on end. 
be i to understand then i say that what you call labour absolutely dominate this part of the world. 
he nod. 
that it be difficult to get skilled labour into here. 
difficult. my god if i want to get an extra hand for my business i pay union wage of course i have to arrange to get him here secretly. i have to go out and meet him accidental like down the line and if the union find out that he be come they like a not order him back east or turn him down across the border. 
even if he ha his union ticket. why. 
they ll tell him that labour condition be not good here. he know what that mean. he ll turn back quick enough. i m in a small way of business and i can t afford to take any chance fight the union. 
what would happen if you do. 
d you know what s happen across the border. men get blow up there with dynamite. 
but this isn t across the border. 
it s a damn sight too near to be pleasant. and witness get blow up too. you see the labour situation ain t run from our side the line. it s work from down under. you may have notice men be rather careful when they talk about it. 
yes i notice all that. 
well it ain t a pleasant state of affair. i don t say that the union here would do anything to you and please understand i m all for the right of labour myself. labour ha no good friend than me i ve be a work man though i ve get a business of my own now. don t run away with any idea that i m against labour will you. 
not in the least. i can see that. you merely find that labour s a little bite er inconsiderate sometimes. 
look what happen across the border. i suppose they ve tell you that little fuss with the japanese in vancouver be work from down under haven t they. i don t think our own people ud have do it by themselves. 
i ve hear that several time. be it quite sport do you think to lay the blame on another country. 
you don t live here. but a i be say if we get rid of the jap to day we ll be tell to get rid of some one else to morrow. there s no limit sir to what labour want. none. 
i think they only want a fair day s wage for a fair day s work. 
that may do in the old country but here they mean to bos the country. they do. 
and how doe the country like it. 
we re about sick of it. it don t matter much in flush time employer ll do most anything sooner than stop work but when we come to a pinch you ll hear something. we re a rich land in spite of everything they make out but we re hold up at every turn by labour. why there s business on business which friend of mine in a small way like myself want to start. business in every direction if they be only allow to start in. but they ain t. 
that s a pity. now what do you think about the japanese question. 
i don t think. i know. both political party be play up to the labour vote if you understand what that mean. 
i try to understand. 
and neither side ll tell the truth that if the asiatic go this side of the continent ll drop out of sight unless we get free white immigration. and any party that propose white immigration on a large scale ud be snow under next election. i m tell you what politician think. myself i believe if a man stand up to labour not that i ve any feel against labour and just talk sense a lot of people would follow him quietly of course. i believe he could even get white immigration after a while. he d lose the first election of course but in the long run. we re about sick of labour. i want you to know the truth. 
thank you. and you don t think any attempt to bring in white immigration would succeed. 
not if it didn t suit labour. you can try it if you like and see what happen. 
on that hint i make an experiment in another city. there be three men of position and importance and affluence each keenly interest in the development of their land each assert that what the land need be white immigrant. and we four talk for two hour on the matter up and down and in circle. the one point on which those three men be unanimous be that whatever step be take to bring people into british columbia from england by private recruit or otherwise should be take secretly. otherwise the business of the people concern in the scheme would suffer. 
at which point i drop the great question of asiatic exclusion which be agitate all our community. and i leave it to you especially in australia and the cape to draw your own conclusion. 
externally british columbia appear to be the rich and the lovely section of the continent. over and above her own resource she ha a fair chance to secure an immense asiatic trade which she urgently desire. her land in many place over large area be peculiarly fit for the small former and fruit grower who can send his truck to the city. on every hand i hear a demand for labour of all kind. at the same time in no other part of the continent do i meet so many men who insistently decry the value and possibility of their country or who dwell more fluently on the hardship and privation to be endure by the white immigrant. i believe that one or two gentleman have go to england to explain the drawback viva voce. it be possible that they incur a great responsibility in the present and even a terrible one for the future. 
the fortunate town. 
after politics let u return to the prairie which be the high veldt plus hope activity and reward. winnipeg be the door to it a great city in a great plain compare herself innocently enough to other city of her acquaintance but quite unlike any other city. 
when one meet in her own house a woman not see since girlhood she be all a strange till some remember tone or gesture link up to the past and one cry. it be you after all. but indeed the child ha go. the woman with her influence ha take her place. i try vainly to recover the gawky graceless city i have know so unformed and so insistent on her shy self. i even venture to remind a man of it. i remember he say smile but we be young then. this thing indicate an immense perspective of asphalt avenue that dip under thirty railway track only come up in the last ten year practically the last five. we ve have to enlarge all those warehouse yonder by add two or three story to em and we ve hardly begin to go ahead yet. we re just begin. 
warehouse railway siding and such be only counter in the white man s game which can be sweep up and re deal a the play vary. it be the spirit in the thin dance air the new spirit of the new city which rejoice me. winnipeg ha thing in abundance but ha learn to put them beneath her foot not on top of her mind and so be old than many city. none the le the thing have to be show for what shop be to the woman show off his town be to the right mind man. first come the suburb mile on mile of the dainty clean outline wooden build house where one can be so happy and so warm each unjealously divide from it neighbour by the light of boundary. one could date them by their architecture year after year back to the early ninety which be when civilisation begin. could guess within a few score dollar at their cost and the income of their owner and could ask question about the new domestic appliance of to day. 
asphalt street and concrete sidewalk come up a few year ago say our host a we trot over mile of it. we find it the only way to fight the prairie mud. look. where the dare road end there lay unsubdued level with the pale asphalt the tenacious prairie over which civilisation fight her hub deep way to the west. and with asphalt and concrete they fight the prairie back every build season. next come the show house build by rich men with an eye to the honour and glory of their city which be the first obligation of wealth in a new land. 
we twist and turn among broad clean tree line sunlit boulevard and avenue all sluice down with an air that forbid any think of fatigue and talk of city government and municipal taxation till in a certain silence we be show a suburb of uncared for house shop and bank whose side and corner be rub greasy by the shoulder of loafer. dirt and tin can lay about the street. yet it be not the squalor of poverty so much a the lack of instinct to keep clean. one race prefer to inhabit there. 
next a glimpse of a cold white cathedral red brick school almost a big. thank goodness. a some convent. hospital institution a mile or so of shop and then a most familiar feel lunch at a club which would have amaze my englishman at montreal where men not yet old talk of fort garry a they remember it and tale of the found of the city of early administrative shift and accident mingle with the young men s prophecy and frivolity. 
there be a few place still leave where men can handle big thing with a light touch and take more for grant in five minute than an englishman at home could puzzle out in a year. but one would not meet many english at a lunch in a london club who take the contract for build london wall or help bully king john into sign magna charta. 
i have two view of the city one on a gray day from the roof of a monster build whence it seem to overflow and fill with noise the whole vast cup of the horizon. and still all round it edge jet of steam and the impatient cry of machinery show it be eat out into the prairie like a smother fire. 
the other picture be a silhouette of the city s flank mysterious a a line of unexplored cliff under a sky crimson bar from the zenith to the grind where it lay pale emerald behind the uneven rampart. a our train halt in the last of the dusk and the rail glow dull red i catch the deep surge of it and seven mile across the purple level saw the low restless aurora of it light. it be rather an awesome thing to listen to a vanguard of civilisation talk to itself in the night in the same tone a a thousand year old city. 
all the country hereabouts be riddle with railway for business and pleasure undreamed of fifteen year ago and it be a long time before we reach the clear prairie of air and space and open land. the air be different from any air that ever blow. the space be ample than most space because it run back to the unhampered pole and the open land keep the secret of it magic a closely a the sea or the desert. 
people here do not stumble against each other around corner but see largely and tranquilly from a long way off what they desire or wish to avoid and they shape their path accordingly across the wave and trough and tongue and dip and fan of the land. 
when mere space and the stoop of the high sky begin to overwhelm earth provide little pond and lake lie in soft flank hollow where people can step down out of the flood of air and delight themselves with small and know distance. most of the woman i saw about the house be down in the hollow and most of the men be on the crest and the flat. once while we halt a woman drive straight down at u from the sky line along a golden path between black plough land. when the horse who manage affair stop at the car she nod mysteriously and show u a very small baby in the hollow of her arm. doubtless she be some exile queen fly north to find a dynasty and establish a country. the prairie make everything wonderful. 
they be thresh the wheat on both side or the track a far a the eye could see. the smoke of the machine go up in orderly perspective alongside the mound of chaff thus. a machine a house a mound of chaff a stretch of wheat in stock and then repeat the pattern over the next few degree of longitude. we run through string of nearly touch little town where i remember an occasional shack. and through big town once represent by a name board a side and two trooper of the north west police. in those day men prove that wheat would not grow north of some fool s line or other or if it do that no one would grow it. and now the wheat be march with u a far a the eye could reach. the railway be out two three hundred mile north people a new wheat country. and north of that again the grand trunk be lay down a suburban extension of a few thousand mile across the continent with branch perhaps to dawson city certainly to hudson bay. 
come north and look. cry the afrites of the railway. you re only on the fringe of it here. i prefer to keep the old road and to gape at miracle accomplish since my day. the old false front hollow stomach western hotel be go. their place fill by five storey brick or stone one with post office to match. occasionally some overlook fragment of the past still cleave to a town and mark it for an old acquaintance but often one have to get a mile away and look back on a place a one hold a palimpsest up against the light to identify the long overlay line of the beginning. each town supply the big farm country behind it and each town school carry the union jack on a flagstaff in it playground. so far a one could understand the scholar be teach neither to hate nor despise nor beg from their own country. 
i whisper to a man that i be a little tire of a three day tyranny of wheat besides be shock at farmer who use clean bright straw for fuel and make bonfire of their chaff hill. you re way behind the time say he. there s fruit and dairying and any quantity of mix farm go forward all around let alone irrigation further west. wheat s not our only king by a long sight. wait till you strike such and such a place. it be there i meet a prophet and a preacher in the shape of a commissioner of the local board of trade. all town have them. who firmly show me the vegetable which his district produce. they be vegetable too all neatly stag in a little kiosk near the station. 
i think the pious thomas tusser would have love that man. providence say he shed pamphlet at every gesture do not intend everlasting wheat in this section. no sir. our business be to keep ahead of providence to meet her with mix farm. be you interest in mix farm. psha. too bad you miss our fruit and vegetable show. it draw people together mix farm doe. i don t say wheat be narrow to the outlook but i claim there s more sociability and money in mix farm. we ve be hypnotise by wheat and cattle. now the car win t start yet awhile i ll just tell you my idea. 
for fifteen glorious minute he give me condense essence of mix farm with excursion into sugar beet. do you know they be make sugar in alberta. and he talk of farmyard muck our dark mother of all thing with proper devotion. 
what we want now he cry in farewell be men more men. yes and woman. 
they need woman sorely for domestic help to meet the mad rush of work at harvest time maid who will help in house dairy and chicken run till they be marry. 
a steady tide set that way already. one content settler recruit others from england. but if a tenth of that energy waste on social reform could be divert to decently think out and supervise emigration work. labour doe not yet object to people work on the land. we might do something worth talk about. the race which work and do not form committee be go into the country at least a fast a ours. it make one jealous and afraid to watch alien take and take honestly so much of this treasure of good fortune and sane live. 
there be a town down the road which i have first hear discuss nigh twenty year ago by a break down prospector in a box car. young feller say he after he have make a professional prophecy you ll hear of that town if you live. she s bear lucky. 
i saw the town late it be a side by a trestle bridge where indian sell beadwork and a year pass i gather that the old tramp s prophecy have come true and that luck of some kind have strike the little town by the big river. so this trip i stop to make sure. it be a beautiful town of six thousand people and a railway junction beside a high girdered iron bridge. there be a public garden with tree at the station. a company of joyous men and woman whom that air and that light and their own goodwill make our brother and sister come along in motor and give u such a day a never be. 
what about the luck. i ask. 
heaven. say one. haven t you hear about our natural gas the great natural gas in the world. oh come and see. 
i be whirl off to a roundhouse full of engine and machinery shop work by natural gas which come out of the earth smell slightly of fry onion at a pressure of six hundred pound and by valve and tap be reduce to four pound. there be luck enough to make a metropolis. imagine a city s heat and light to say nothing of power lay on at no great expense than that of pip. 
be there any limit to the possibility of it. i demand. 
who know. we re only at the begin. we ll show you a brick make plant out on the prairie run by gas. but just now we want to show you one of our pet farm. 
away swoop the motor like swallow over road any width you please and up on to what look like the high veldt itself. a major of the mount police who have do a year at the. boer. war tell u how the ostrich farm fence and the little meercats sit up and race about south africa have make him homesick for the sight of the gopher by the wayside and the endless panel of wire fence along which we rush. the prairie ha nothing to learn from the veldt about fence or tricky gate. 
after all say the major there s no country to touch this. i ve have thirty year of it from one end to the other. 
then they point out all the quarter of the horizon say fifty mile wherever you turn and give them name. 
the show farmer have take his folk to church but we friendly slip through his gate and reach the silent spick and span house with it trim barn and a vast mound of copper colour wheat pile in the sun between two mound of golden chaff. every one thumb a sample of it and pass judgment it must have be worth a few hundred golden sovereign a it lay out on the veldt and we sit around on the farm machinery and in the hush that a shut up house always impose we seem to hear the lavish earth get ready for new harvest. there be no true wind but a push a it be of the whole crystal atmosphere. 
now for the brickfield. they cry. it be many mile off. the road feed by a never to be forget drop to a river broad a the orange at norval s pont rustle between mud hill. an old scotchman in the very liken of charon with big hip boot control a pontoon which sag back and forth by current on a wire rope. the reckless motor bump on to this ferry through a foot of water and charon who never relax bore u statelily across the dark broad river to the further bank where we all turn to look at the lucky little town and discus it possibility. 
i think you can see it best from here say one. 
no from here say another and their voice soften on the very name of it. 
then for an hour we race over true prairie great yellow green plain cross by old buffalo trail which do not improve motor spring till a single chimney break the horizon like a mast at sea. and thereby be more light hearted men and woman a shed and a tent or two for workman the rib and frame of the brick make mechanism a fifteen foot square shaft sink sixty foot down to the clay and stark and black the pipe of a natural gas well. the rest be prairie the mere curve of the earth with little grey bird call. 
i think it could not have be simple more audacious or more impressive till i saw some woman in pretty frock go up and peer at the hiss gas valve. 
we fancy that it might amuse you say all those merry people and between laughter and digression they talk over project for build first their own and next other city in brick of all sort. give figure of output and expense of plant that make one gasp. to the eye the affair be no more than a novel or delicious picnic. what it actually mean be a committee to change the material of civilisation for a hundred mile around. i felt a though i be assist at the plan of nineveh. and whatever of good come to the little town that be bear lucky i shall always claim a share. 
but there be no space to tell how we feed with a prairie appetite in the men s quarter on a meal prepare by an artist. how we race home at speed no child could ever hear of and no grow up should attempt. how the motor squattered at the ford and take pot shot at the pontoon till even charon smile. how great horse haul the motor up the gravelly bank into the town. how there we meet people in their sunday best walk and drive and pull ourselves together and look virtuous. and how the merry company suddenly and quietly evanished because they think that their guest might be tire. i can give you no notion of the pure irresponsible frolic of it of the almost affectionate kindness the gay and inventive hospitality that so delicately control the whole affair any more than i can describe a certain quiet half hour in the dusk just before we leave when the company gather to say good bye while young couple walk in the street and the glare of the never extinguish natural gas lamp colour the leaf of the tree a stage green. 
it be a woman speak out of the shadow who say what we all felt you see we just love our town. 
so do we i say and it slide behind u. 
mountain and the pacific. 
the prairie proper end at calgary among the cattle ranch mill brewery and three million acre irrigation work. the river that float timber to the town from the mountain doe not slide nor rustle like prairie river but brawl across bar of blue pebble and a greenish tinge in it water hint of the snow. 
what i saw of calgary be crowd into one lively half hour. motor be invent to run about new city. what i hear i pick up oddly enough week late from a young dane in the north sea. he be qualmish but his saga of triumph uphold him. 
three year ago i come to canada by steerage third class. and i have the language to learn. look at me. i have now my own dairy business in calgary and look at me. my own half section that be three hundred and twenty acre. all my land which be mine. and now i come home first class for christmas here in denmark and i shall take out back with me some friend of mine which be farmer to farm on those irrigate land near by calgary. oh i tell you there be nothing wrong with canada for a man which work. 
and will your friend go. i inquire. 
you bet they will. it be all arrange already. i bet they get ready to go now already. and in three year they will come back for christmas here in denmark first class like me. 
then you think calgary be go ahead. 
you bet. we be only at the begin of thing. look at me. chicken. i raise chicken also in calgary etc. etc. 
after all this pageant of unrelieved material prosperity it be a rest to get to the stillness of the big foothill though they too have be in span for the work of civilisation. the timber off their side be duck and pitch pole down their swift stream to be saw into house stuff for all the world. the woodwork of a purely english villa may come from a many imperial source a it owner s income. 
the train creep whistle to keep it heart up through the wind gateway of the hill till it present itself very humbly before the true mountain the not so little brother to the himalaya. mountain of the pine cloak snow cap breed be unchristian thing. 
men mine into the flank of some of them and trust to modern science to pull them through. not long ago a mountain kneel on a little mine village a an angry elephant kneel. but it do not get up again and the half of that camp be no more see on earth. the other half still stand uninhabited. the heathen in his blindness would have make arrangement with the genius of the place before he ever drive a pick there. a a learn scholar of a little know university once observe to an engineer officer on the himalaya tibet road you white men gain nothing by not notice what you cannot see. you fall off the road or the road fall on you and you die and you think it all an accident. how much wise it be when we be allow to sacrifice a man officially sir before make bridge or other public work. then the local god be officially recognise sir and do not give any more trouble and the local workman sir be much please with these precaution. 
there be many local god on the road through the rockies. old bald mountain that have part with every shred of verdure and stand wrap in sheet of wrinkle silver rock over which the sight travel slowly a in delirium. mad horn mountain wreathe with dance mist. low browed and bend shoulder faquir of the wayside sit in meditation beneath a burden of glacier ice that thicken every year. and mountain of fair aspect on one side but on the other seam with hollow sunless cleft where last year s snow be blacken with this year s dirt and smoke of forest fire. the drip from it seep away through slope of unstable gravel and dirt till at the appoint season the whole half mile of undermine talus slip and roar into the horrify valley. 
the railway wind in and out among them with little inexplicable deviation and side twist much a a buck walk through a forest glade sidle and cross uneasily in what appear to be a plain way. only when the track ha round another shoulder or two a backward and upward glance at some menace slope show why the train do not take the easy look road on the other side of the gorge. 
from time to time the mountain lean apart and nurse between them some golden valley of slow stream fat pasture and park like upland with a little town and cow bell tinkle among berry bush. and child who have never see the sun rise or set shout at the train. and real garden round the house. 
at calgary it be a frost and the dahlia be dead. a day late nasturtium bloom untouched beside the station platform and the air be heavy and liquid with the breath of the pacific. one felt the spirit of the land change with the change outline of the hill till on the low level by the fraser it seem that even the sussex down must be near at heart to the prairie than british columbia. the prairie people notice the difference and the hill people unwisely i think insist on it. perhaps the magic may lie in the scent of strange evergreen and moss not know outside the range. or it may strike from wall to wall of timeless rift and gorge but it seem to me to draw out of the great sea that wash further asia the asia of ally mountain mine and forest. 
we rest one day high up in the rockies to visit a lake carve out of pure jade whose property be to colour every reflection on it bosom to it own tint. a belt of brown dead timber on a gravel scar show upside down like sombre cypress rise from green turf and the reflect snow be pale green. in summer many tourist go there but we saw nothing except the wonderworking lake lie mute in it circle of forest where red and orange lichen grow among grey and blue moss and we hear nothing except the noise of it outfall hurry through a jam of bone white log. the thing might have belong to tibet or some unexplored valley behind kin chinjunga. it have no concern with the west. 
a we drive along the narrow hill road a piebald pack pony with a china blue eye come round a bend follow by two woman black haired bare head wear beadwork squaw jacket and rid straddle. a string of pack pony trot through the pine behind them. 
indian on the move. say i. how characteristic. 
a the woman jolt by one of them very slightly turn her eye and they be past any doubt the comprehend equal eye of the civilise white woman which move in that berry brown face. 
yes say our driver when the cavalcade have navigate the next curve that ll be mr. so and so and miss so and so. they mostly camp hereabout for three month every year. i reckon they re come in to the railroad before the snow fall. 
and whereabout do they go. i ask. 
oh all about anywheres. if you mean where they come from just now that s the trail yonder. 
he point to a hair crack across the face of a mountain and i take his word for it that it be a safe pony trail. the same even at an hotel of all the luxury a slight woman in a very pretty even frock be turn over photograph and the eye beneath the strictly arrange hair be the eye of the woman in the beadwork jacket who have quirted the piebald pack pony past our buggy. 
praise be allah for the diversity of his creature. but do you know any other country where two woman could go out for a three month trek and shoot in perfect comfort and safety. 
these mountain be only ten day from london and people more and more use them for pleasure ground. other and most unthought of person buy little fruit farm in british columbia a an excuse for a yearly visit to the beautiful land and they tempt yet more people from england. this be apart from the regular tide of emigration and serf to make the land know. if you ask a state own railway to gamble on the chance of draw tourist the commissioner of railway would prove to you that the experiment could never succeed and that it be wrong to risk the taxpayer money in erect first class hotel. yet south africa could even now be make a tourist place if only the railroad and steamship line have faith. 
on think thing over i suspect i be not intend to appreciate the merit of british columbia too highly. maybe i misjudge. maybe she be purposely misrepresent. but i seem to hear more about problem and crisis and situation in her border than anywhere else. so far a eye or ear could gather the one urgent problem be to find enough men and woman to do the work in hand. 
lumber coal mineral fishery fit soil for fruit dairy and poultry farm be all there in a superb climate. the natural beauty of earth and sky match these lavish gift. to which be add thousand of mile of safe and shelter waterway for coastal trade. deep harbour that need no dredge. the grind work of immense and ice free port all the title deed to half the trade of asia. for the people s pleasure and good disport salmon trout quail and pheasant play in front of and through the suburb of her capital. a little axe work and road metal give a city one of the lovely water gird park that we have outside the tropic. another town be present with a hundred island knoll wooded cove stretch of beach and dingle lay down a expressly for camp life picnic and boat party beneath sky never too hot and rarely too cold. if they care to lift up their eye from their almost subtropical garden they can behold snowy peak across blue bay which must be good for the soul. though they face a sea out of which any portent may arise they be not force to protect or even to police it water. they be a ignorant of drouth murrain pestilence locust and blight a they be of the true mean of want and fear. 
such a land be good for an energetic man. it be also not so bad for the loafer. i be a i have tell you instruct on it drawback. i be to understand that there be no certainty in any employment. and that a man who earn immense wage for six month of the year would have to be keep by the community if he fell out of work for the other six. i be not to be deceive by golden picture set before me by interest party. that be to say by almost every one i meet. and i be to give due weight to the difficulty and discouragement that beset the intend immigrant. be i an intend immigrant i would risk a good deal of discomfort to get on to the land in british columbia. and be i rich with no attachment outside england i would swiftly buy me a farm or a house in that country for the mere joy of it. 
i forget those doleful and unhumorous conspirator among people who fervently believe in the place. but afterwards the memory leave a bad taste in my mouth. city like woman cannot be too careful what sort of men they allow to talk about them. 
time have change vancouver literally out of all knowledge. from the station to the suburb and back to the wharf every step be strange and where i remember open space and still untouched timber the tramcar be fleet people out to a lacrosse game. vancouver be an age city for only a few day previous to my arrival the vancouver baby i. e. the first child bear in vancouver have be marry. 
a steamer once familiar in table bay have land a few hundred sikh and punjabi jat to each man his bundle and the little group walk uneasy alone keep for many of them have be soldier to the military step. yes they say they have come to this country to get work. news have reach their village that work at great wage be to be have in this country. their brother who have go before have send them the news. yes and sometimes the money for the passage out. the money would be pay back from the so great wage to come. with interest. assuredly with interest. do men lend money for nothing in any country. they be wait for their brother to come and show them where to eat and late how to work. meanwhile this be a new country. how could they say anything about it. no it be not like gurgaon or shahpur or jullundur. the sickness. plague. have come to all these place. it have come into the punjab by every road and many many many have die. the crop too have fail in some district. hear the news about these so great wage they have take ship for the belly s sake for the money s sake for the child s sake. 
would they go back again. 
they grin a they nudge each other. the sahib have not quite understand. they have come over for the sake of the money the rupee no the dollar. the punjab be their home where their village lay where their people be wait. without doubt without doubt they would go back. then come the brother already work in the mill cosmopolitan dress in ready make clothe and smoke cigarette. 
this way o you people they cry. the bundle be reshouldered and the turbaned knot melt away. the last word i catch be true sikh talk. but what about the money o my brother. 
some punjabi have find out that money can be too dearly buy. 
there be a sikh in a sawmill have be driver in a mountain battery at home. himself he be from amritsar. oh pleasant a cold water in a thirsty land be the sound of a familiar name in a fair country. 
but you have your pension. why do you come here. 
heaven bear because my sense be little. and there be also the sickness at amritsar. 
the historian a hundred year hence will be able to write a book on economic change bring about by pestilence. there be a very interest study somewhere of the social and commercial effect of the black death in england. 
on a wharf wait for a steamer some thirty sikh many of them wear their old uniform. which should not be allow. be talk at the top of their voice so that the shed ring like an indian railway station. a suggestion that if they speak low life would be easy be instantly adopt. then a senior officer with a british india medal ask hopefully. ha the sahib any order where we be to go. 
ala he have none nothing but goodwill and greeting for the son of the khalsa and they tramp off in four. 
it be say that when the little riot break out in vancouver these heathen be invite by other asiatic to join in defend themselves against the white man. they refuse on the grind that they be subject of the king. i wonder what tale they send back to their village and where and how fully every detail of the affair be talk over. white men forget that no part of the empire can live or die to itself. 
here be a rather comic illustration of this on the material side. the wonderful water between vancouver and victoria be full of whale leap and rejoice in the strong blue all about the steamer. there be therefore a whalery on an island near by and i have the luck to travel with one of the shareholder. 
whale be beautiful beast he say affectionately. we ve a contract with a scotch firm for every barrel of oil we can deliver for year ahead. it s reckon the best for harness dress. 
he go on to tell me how a swift ship go hunt whale with a bomb gun and explode shell into their inside so that they perish at once. 
all the old harpoon and boat business would take till the cow come home. we kill em right off. 
and how d you strip em. 
it seem that the expeditious ship carry also a large air pump and pump up the carcass to float roundly till she could attend to it. at the end of her day s kill she would return tow sometimes a many a four inflate whale to the whalery which be a factory full of modern appliance. the whale be haul up incline plane like log to a sawmill and a much of them a will not make oil for the scotch leather dresser or cannot be dry for the japanese market be convert into potent manure. 
no manure can touch ours say the shareholder. it s so rich in bone d you see. the only thing that ha beat u up to date be their hide. but we ve fix up a patent process now for turn em into floorcloth. yes they re beautiful beast. that fellow he point to a black hump in a wreath of spray would cut up a miracle. 
if you go on like this you win t have any whale leave i say. 
that be so. but the concern pay thirty per cent and a few year back no one believe in it. 
i forgive him everything for the last sentence. 
a conclusion. 
canada posse two pillar of strength and beauty in quebec and victoria. the former rank by herself among those mother city of whom none can say this remind me. to realise victoria you must take all that the eye admire most in bournemouth torquay the isle of wight the happy valley at hong kong the doon sorrento and camp bay. add reminiscence of the thousand island and arrange the whole round the bay of naples with some himalaya for the background. 
real estate agent recommend it a a little piece of england the island on which it stand be about the size of great britain but no england be set in any such sea or so fully charge with the mystery of the large ocean beyond. the high still twilight along the beach be out of the old east just under the curve of the world and even in october the sun rise warm from the first. earth sky and water wait outside every man s door to drag him out to play if he look up from his work. and though some other city in the dominion do not quite understand this immoral mood of nature men who have make their money in them go off to victoria and with the zeal of convert preach and preserve it beauty. 
we go to look at a marine junk store which have once be esquimalt a station of the british navy. it be reach through wind road lovely than english lane along waterside and parkway any one of which would have make the fortune of a town. 
most city a man say suddenly lay out their road at right angle. we do in the business quarter. what d you think. 
i fancy some of those big city will have to spend million on curve road some day for the sake of a change i say. you ve get what no money can buy. 
that s what the men tell u who come to live in victoria. and they ve have experience. 
it be pleasant to think of the western millionaire hot from some gridiron of rectangular civilisation confirm good victorian in the policy of change vista and restful curve. 
there be a view when the morning mist peel off the harbour where the steamer tie up or the house of parliament on one hand and a huge hotel on the other which a an example of cunningly fit in water front and facade be worth a very long journey. the hotel be just be finish. the lady draw room perhaps a hundred foot by forty carry an arch and superbly enrich plaster ceiling of knops and arabesque and interlace which somehow seem familiar. 
we saw a photo of it in country life_ the contractor explain. it seem just what the room need so one of our plasterer a frenchman that s him take and copy it. it come in all right doesn t it. 
about the time the noble original be put up in england drake might have be sail somewhere off this very coast. so you see victoria lawfully hold the copyright. 
i try honestly to render something of the colour the gaiety and the graciousness of the town and the island but only find myself pile up unbelievable adjective and so let it go with a hundred other wonder and repent that i have waste my time and yours on the anxious eye gentleman who talk of drawback. a verse cut out of a newspaper seem to sum up their attitude. 
a the land of little leisure be the place where thing be do so the land of scanty pleasure be the place for lot of fun. in the land of plenty trouble people laugh a people should but there s some one always kick in the land of heap too good. 
at every step of my journey people assure me that i have see nothing of canada. silent mine men from the north. fruit farmer from the okanagan valley. foreman of railway gang not so long from english public school. the old inhabitant of the town of villeneuve age twenty eight. certain english who live on the prairie and contrive to get fun and good fellowship a well a money. the single mind wheat grower and cattle men. election agent. police trooper expansive in the dusk of wayside halt. official dependent on the popular will who talk a delicately a they walk. and queer soul who do not speak english and say so loudly in the din car each in his or her own way give me to understand this. my excursion bore the same relation to their country a a bus ride down the strand bear to london so i know how they felt. 
the excuse be that our own flesh and blood be more interest than anybody else and i hold by birth the same right in them and their life a they hold in any other part of the empire. because they have become a people within the empire my right be admit and no word speak. which would not have be the case a few year ago. one may mistake many sign on the road but there be no mistake the spirit of sane and realise nationality which fill the land from end to end precisely a the joyous hum of a big dynamo well settle to it load make a background to all the other shop noise. for many reason that spirit come late but since it ha come after the day of little thing doubt and open or veil contempt there be le danger that it will go astray among the boundless wealth and luxury that await it. the people the school the church the press in it degree and above all the woman understand without manifesto that their land must now a always abide under the law in deed and in word and in think. this be their caste mark the ark of their covenant their reason for be what they be. in the big city with their village like list of police court offence. in the wide open little western town where the present be a free a the life and the future a safe a the property of their inhabitant. in the coast city gall and humiliate at their one night s riot. it s not our habit sir. it s not our habit. up among the mountain where the officer of the law track and carefully bring into justice the astound malefactor. and behind the orderly prairie to the barren ground a far a a single white man can walk the relentless spirit of the breed follow up and oversee and control. it doe not much express itself in word but sometimes in intimate discussion one be privilege to catch a glimpse of the inner fire. they burn hotly. 
we do not mean to be de civilise say the first man with whom i talk about it. 
that be the answer throughout the keynote and the explanation. 
otherwise the canadian be a human a the rest of u to evade or deny a plain issue. the duty of develop their country be always present but when it come to take think good think for her defence they refuge behind loose word and childish anticipation of miracle quite in the best imperial manner. all admit that canada be wealthy. few that she be weak. still few that unsupported she would very soon cease to exist a a nation. the anxious inquirer be tell that she doe her duty towards england by develop her resource. that wage be so high a pay army be out of the question. that she be really mature splendid defence scheme but must not be hurry or dictate to. that a little wise diplomacy be all that will ever be need in this so civilise era. that when the evil day come something will happen. it certainly will. the whole conclude very often with a fervent essay on the immorality of war all about a much to the point a carry a dive through the street to allay pestilence. 
the question before canada be not what she think or pay but what an enemy may think it necessary to make her pay. if she continue wealthy and remain weak she will surely be attack under one pretext or another. then she will go under and her spirit will return to the dust with her flag a it slide down the halliard. 
that be absurd be always the quick answer. in her own interest england could never permit it. what you speak of presuppose the fall of england. 
not necessarily. nothing bad than a stumble by the way. but when england stumble the empire shake. canada s weakness be lack of men. england s weakness be an excess of voter who propose to live at the expense of the state. these loudly resent that any money should be divert from themselves. and since money be spend on fleet and army to protect the empire while it be consolidate they argue that if the empire cease to exist armament would cease too and the money so save could be spend on their creature comfort. they pride themselves on be an avow and organise enemy of the empire which a others see it wait only to give them health prosperity and power beyond anything their vote could win them in england. but their leader need their vote in england a they need their outcry and discomfort to help them in their municipal and parliamentary career. no engineer lower steam in his own boiler. 
so they be tell little except evil of the great heritage outside and be keep compound in city under promise of free ration and amusement. if the empire be threaten they would not in their own interest urge england to spend men and money on it. consequently it might be well if the nation within the empire be strong enough to endure a little batter unaided at the first outset till such time that be a england be permit to move to their help. 
for this end an influx of good men be need more urgently every year during which peace hold men loyal clean and experience in citizenship with woman not ignorant of sacrifice. 
here the gentleman who propose to be keep by their neighbour be our helpful ally. they have succeed in make uneasy the class immediately above them which be the english work class a yet undebauched by the temptation of state aid idleness or state guarantee irresponsibility. england ha million of such silent careful folk accustom even yet to provide for their own offspring to bring them up in a resolute fear of god and to desire no more than the reward of their own labour. a few year ago this class would not have care to shift. now they feel the general disquiet. they live close to it. tea and sugar borrow friend have tell them jocularly or with threat of a good time come when thing will go hard with the uncheerful giver. the prospect appeal neither to their reason nor to their saving bank book. they hear they do not need to read the speech deliver in their street on a sunday morning. it be one of their pre occupation to send their child to sunday school by roundabout road l they should pick up abominable blasphemy. when the till of the little shop be raid or when the family ne er do well levy on his woman with more than usual brutality they know because they suffer what principle be be put into practice. if these people could quietly be show a quiet way out of it all very many of them would call in their saving. they be rich than they look. and slip quietly away. in the english country a well a in the town there be a feel not yet panic but the dull edge of it that the future will be none too rosy for such a be work or be in the habit of work. this be all to our advantage. 
canada can best serve her own interest and those of the empire by systematically exploit this new recruit grind. now that south africa with the exception of rhodesia ha be paralyse and australia ha not yet learn the thing which belong to her peace canada ha the chance of the century to attract good men and capital into the dominion. but the men be much more important than the money. they may not at first be a clever with the hoe a the bessarabian or the bokhariot or whatever the fashionable breed be but they have quality of pluck good humour and a certain well wear virtue which be not altogether bad. they will not hold aloof from the life of the land nor pray in unknown tongue to byzantine saint. while the very tenacity and caution which make them cleave to england this long help them to root deeply elsewhere. they be more likely to bring their woman than other class and those woman will make sacred and individual home. a little regard crown colony ha a proverb that no district can be call settle till there be pot of musk in the house window sure sign that an english family ha come to stay. it be not certain how much of the present steamer dump foreign population ha any such idea. we have see a financial panic in one country send whole army corp of alien kit back to the land whose allegiance they forswear. what would they or their like do in time of real stress since no instinct in their body or their soul would call them to stand by till the storm be over. 
surely the conclusion of the whole matter throughout the whole empire must be men and woman of our own stock habit language and hope bring in by every possible mean under a well settle policy. time will not be allow u to multiply to unquestionable peace but by draw upon england we can swiftly transfuse what we need of her strength into her vein and by that operation bleed her into health and sanity meantime the only serious enemy to the empire within or without be that very democracy which depend on the empire for it proper comfort and in whose behalf these thing be urge. 
egypt of the magician. 

sea travel. a return to the east. a serpent of old nile. up the river. dead king. the face of the desert. the riddle of empire. 
and the magician of egypt do so with their enchantment. exodus vii. 
i. 
sea travel. 
i have leave europe for no reason except to discover the sun and there be rumour that he be to be find in egypt. 
but i have not realise what more i should find there. 
a p. & o. boat carry u out of marseille. a serang of lascar with whistle chain shawl and flutter blue clothe be at work on the baggage hatch. somebody bungle at the winch. the serang call him a name unlovely in itself but awaken delightful memory in the hearer. 
o serang be that man a fool. 
very foolish sahib. he come from surat. he only come for his food s sake. 
the serang grin. the surtee man grin. the winch begin again and the voice that call. low away. stop her. be a familiar a the friendly whiff from the lascar galley or the slap of bare foot along the deck. but for the passage of a few impertinent year i should have go without hesitation to share their rice. serangs use to be very kind to little white child below the age of caste. most familiar of all be the ship itself. it have slip my memory nor be there anything in the rate charge to remind me that single screw still linger in the gild edge passenger trade. 
some north atlantic passenger accustom to real ship make the discovery and be a please about it a american tourist at stratford on avon. 
oh come and see. they cry. she ha one screw only one screw. hear her thump. and have you see their old barn of a saloon. and the officer library. it s open for two half hour a day week day and one on sunday. you pay a dollar and a quarter deposit on each book. we wouldn t have miss this trip for anything. it s like sail with columbus. 
they wander about voluble amaze and happy for they be get off at port say. 
i explore too. from the rough iron table linen the thick tooth glass for the drink the slummocky set out of victual at meal to the unaccommodating regulation in the curtainless cabin where they have not yet arrive at bunk edge tray for morning tea time and progress have stand still with the p. & o. to be just there be electric fan fitting in the cabin but the fan be charge extra. and there be a rumour unverified that one could eat on deck or in one s cabin without a medical certificate from the doctor. all the rest be under the old motto. quis separabit this be quite separate from other line. 
after all say an anglo indian whom i be tell about civilise ocean travel they don t want you egyptian tripper. they re sure of us_ because and he give me many strong reason connect with leave finance the absence of competition and the ownership of the bombay foreshore. 
but it s absurd i insist. the whole concern be out of date. there s a notice on my deck forbid smoke and the use of naked light and there s a lascar mess about the hold hatch outside my cabin with a candle in a lantern. 
meantime our one screw tub thump gingerly toward port say because we have no mail aboard and the mediterranean exhaust after severe february hysteric lay out like oil. 
i have some talk with a scotch quartermaster who complain that lascar be not what they use to be owe to their habit. but it ha exist since the begin. of sign on a a clan or family all sort together. 
the serang say that for his part he have notice no difference in twenty year. men be always of many kind sahib. and that be because god make men this and that. not all one pattern not by any mean all one pattern. he tell me too that wage be rise but the price of ghee rice and curry stuff be up too which be bad for wife and family at porbandar. and that also be thus and no talk make it otherwise. after suez he would have blossom into thin clothe and long talk but the bitter spring chill nip him a the think of parting just accomplish and work just ahead chill the anglo indian contingent. little by little one come at the outline of the old story a sick wife leave behind here a boy there a daughter at school a very small daughter trust to friend or hireling certain separation for so many year and no great hope or delight in the future. it be not a nice india that the tale hint at. here be one that explain a great deal. 
there be a pathan a mohammedan in a hindu village employ by the village moneylender a a debt collector which be not a popular trade. he live alone among hindu and so run the charge in the low court he wilfully break the caste of a hindu villager by force on him forbid mussulman food and when that pious villager would have take him before the headman to make reparation the godless one draw his afghan knife and kill the headman besides wound a few others. the evidence run without flaw a smoothly a well arrange case should and the pathan be condemn to death for wilful murder. he appeal and by some arrangement or other get leave to state his case personally to the court of revision. say i believe that he do not much trust lawyer but that if the sahib would give him a hear a man to man he might have a run for his money. 
out of the jail then he come and pathan like not content with his own good fact must need begin by some fairy tale that he be a secret agent of the government send down to spy on that village. then he warm to it. yes he be that money lender s agent a persuader of the reluctant if you like work for a hindu employer. naturally many men owe him grudge. a lot of the evidence against him be quite true but the prosecution have twist it abominably. about that knife for instance. true he have a knife in his hand exactly a they have allege. but why. because with that very knife he be cut up and distribute a roast sheep which he have give a a feast to the villager. at that feast he sit in amity with all his world the village rise up at the word of command lay hand on him and drag him off to the headman s house. how could he have break any man s caste when they be all eat his sheep. and in the courtyard of the headman s house they surround him with heavy stick and work themselves into anger against him each man excite his neighbour. he be a pathan. he know what that sort of talk mean. a man cannot collect debt without make enemy. so he warn them. again and again he warn them say. leave me alone. do not lay hand on me. but the trouble grow bad and he saw it be intend that he should be club to death like a jackal in a drain. then he say if blow be strike i strike and i strike to kill because i be a pathan but the blow be strike heavy one. therefore with the very afghan knife that have cut up the mutton he strike the headman. have you mean to kill the headman. assuredly. i be a pathan. when i strike i strike to kill. i have warn them again and again. i think i get him in the liver. he die. and that be all there be to it sahib. it be my life or theirs. they would have take mine over my freely give meat. now_ what ll you do with me. 
in the long run he get several year for culpable homicide. 
but say i when the tale have be tell whatever make the low court accept all that village evidence. it be too good on the face of it. 
the low court say it could not believe it possible that so many respectable native gentle could have band themselves together to tell a lie. 
oh. have the low court be long in the country. 
it be a native judge be the reply. 
if you think this over in all it bearing you will see that the low court be absolutely sincere. be not the low court itself a product of western civilisation and a such bind to play up to pretend to think along western line translate each grade of indian village society into it english equivalent and rule a an english judge would have rule. pathan and incidentally english official must look after themselves. 
there be a fell disease of this century call snobbery of the soul. it germ ha be virulently develop in modern culture from the uncomplex bacillus isolate sixty year ago by the late william makepeace thackeray. precisely a major ponto with his plat dish and stable boy masquerade a footman lie to himself and his guest so but the book of snob can only be bring up to date by him who write it. 
then a man strike in from the sudan far and far to the south with a story of a discompose judge and a much too collect prisoner. 
to the great bazaar of omdurman where all thing be sell come a young man from the uttermost desert of somewhere or other and hear a gramophone. life be of no value to him till he have buy the creature. he take it back to his village and at twilight set it go among his ravish friend. his father sheik of the village come also listen to the loud shouting without breath the strong music lack musician and say justly enough. this thing be a devil. you must not bring devil into my village. lock it up. 
they wait until he have go away and then begin another tune. a second time the sheik come repeat the command and add that if the sing box be hear again he would slay the buyer. but their curiosity and joy defy even this and for the third time. late at night. they slip in pin and record and let the djinn rave. so the sheik with his rifle shoot his son a he have promise and the english judge before whom he eventually come have all the trouble in the world to save that earnest gray head from the gallows. thus. 
now old man you must say guilty or not guilty. 
but i shoot him. that be why i be here. i. 
hush. it be a form of word which the law ask. sotte voce. write down that the old idiot doesn t understand. be still now. 
but i shoot him. what else could i have do. he buy a devil in a box and. 
quiet. that come late. leave talk. 
but i be sheik of the village. one must not bring devil into a village. i say i would shoot him. 
this matter be in the hand of the law. i judge. 
what need. i shoot him. suppose that your son have bring a devil in a box to your village. 
they explain to him at last that under british rule father must hand over devil deal child to be shoot by the white men. the first step you see on the downward path of state aid. and that he must go to prison for several month for interfere with a government shoot. 
we be a great race. there be a pious young judge in nigeria once who keep a condemn prisoner wait very many minute while he hunt through the hausa dictionary word by word for may god have mercy on your soul. 
and i hear another tale about the suez canal this time a hint of what may happen some day at panama. there be a tramp steamer load with high explosive on her way to the east and at the far end of the canal one of the sailor very naturally upset a lamp in the fo c sle. after a heat interval the crew take to the desert alongside while the captain and the mate open all cock and sink her not in the fairway but up against a bank just leave room for a steamer to squeeze past. then the canal authority wire to her charterers to know exactly what there might be in her. and it be say that the reply keep them awake of night for it be their business to blow her up. 
meantime traffic have to go through and a p. & o. steamer come along. there be the canal. there be the sink wreck mark by one elderly arab in a little boat with a red flag and there be about five foot clearance on each side for the p. & o. she go through a tiptoe because even fifty ton of dynamite will jar a boat perceptibly and the tramp hold more very much more not to mention detonator. by some absurd chance almost the only passenger who know about the thing at the time be an old lady rather proud of the secret. 
ah she say in the middle of that agonise glide you may depend upon it that if everybody know what i know they d all be on the other side of the ship. 
late on the authority blow up the tramp with infinite precaution from some two mile off for which reason she neither destroy the suez canal nor dislocate the sweet water canal alongside but merely dig out a hole a hundred foot or a hundred yard deep and so vanish from lloyd s register. 
but no story could divert one long from the peculiarity of that amaze line which exist strictly for itself. there be a bathroom. occupy. at the windy end of an open alleyway. in due time the bather come out. 
say the steward a he swab out the tub for his successor. that be the chief engineer. e s be some time. must ave ad a mucky job below this mornin. 
i have a great admiration for chief engineer. they be men in authority need all the comfort and aid that can possibly be give them such a bathroom of their own close to their own cabin where they can clean off at leisure. 
it be not fair to mix them up with the ruck of passenger nor be it do on real ship. nor when a passenger want a bath in the even do the steward of real ship roll their eye like verger in a cathedral and say we ll see if it can be manage. they double down the alleyway and shout matcham or ponting or guttman and in fifteen second one of those swift three ha the tap go and the towel out. real ship be not annex of westminster abbey or borstal reformatory. they supply decent accommodation in return for good money and i imagine that their director instruct their staff to look please while at work. 
some generation back there must have be an idea that the p. & o. be vastly superior to all line afloat a sort of semipontifical show not to be criticise. how much of the notion be due to it own excellence and how much to it passenger traffic monopoly doe not matter. to day it neither feed nor tend it passenger nor keep it ship well enough to put on any air at all. 
for which reason human nature be what it be it surround itself with an ungracious atmosphere of absurd ritual to cover grudge and inadequate performance. 
what it really need be to be drop into a march north atlantic without any lascar and make to swim for it life between a c. p. r. boat and a north german lloyd till it learn to smile. 
ii. 
a return to the east. 
the east be a much large slice of the world than european care to admit. some say it begin at st. gothard where the smell of two continent meet and fight all through that terrible restaurant car dinner in the tunnel. others have find it at venice on warm april morning. but the east be wherever one see the lateen sail that shark s fin of a rig which for hundred of year ha dog all white bather round the mediterranean. there be still a suggestion of menace a hint of piracy in the blood whenever the lateen go by fish or fruit or coast. 
this be not my ancestral trade she whisper to the accomplice sea. if everybody have their right i should be do something quite different. for my father he be the junk and my mother she be the dhow and between the two of em they make asia. then she tack disorderly but deadly quick and shuffle past the unimaginative steam packet with her hat over one eye and a knife a it be up her baggy sleeve. 
even the stone boat at port say busy on jetty extension show their untamed descent beneath their load clumsiness. they be all child of the camel nose dhow who be the mother of mischief. but it be very good to meet them again in raw sunshine unchanged in any rope and patch. 
old port say have disappear beneath acre of new building where one could walk at leisure without be turn back by soldier. 
two or three landmark remain. two or three be report a still in existence and one face show itself after many year ravage but respectable rigidly respectable. 
yes say the face i have be here all the time. but i have make money and when i die i be go home to be bury. 
why not go home before you be bury o face. 
because i have live here so long. home be only good to be bury in. 
and what do you do nowadays. 
nothing now. i live on my rente my income. 
think of it. to live icily in a perpetual cinematograph show of excite uneasy traveller. to watch huge steamer slide in and out all day and all night like railway truck unknowing and unsought by a single soul aboard. to talk five or six tongue indifferently but to have no country no interest in any earth except one reservation in a continental cemetery. 
it be a cold even after heavy rain and the half flood street reek. but we undefeated tourist run about in drove and saw all that could be see before train time. we miss most of u the canal company s garden which happen to mark a certain dreadful and exact division between east and west. 
up to that point it be a fringe of palm stiff against the sky the impetus of home memory and the echo of home interest carry the young man along very comfortably on his first journey. but at suez one must face thing. people generally the most sympathetic leave the boat there. the old men who be go on have discover each other and begin to talk shop. no newspaper come aboard only clip reuter telegram. the world seem cruelly large and self absorb. one go for a walk and find this little bite of keep grind with comfortable garden gate house on either side of the path. then one begin to wonder in the twilight for choice when one will see those palm again from the other side. then the black hour of homesickness vain regret foolish promise and weak despair shut down with the smell of strange earth and the cadence of strange tongue. 
cross road and halt place in the desert be always favour by djinn and afrits. the young man will find them wait for him in the canal company s garden at port say. 
on the other hand if he be fortunate enough to have win the east by inheritance a there be family who serve her for five or six generation he will meet no ghoul in that garden but a free and a friendly and an ample welcome from good spirit of the east that await him. the voice of the gardener and the watchman will be a the greeting of his father s servant in his father s house. the even smell and the sight of the hibiscus and poinsettia will unlock his tongue in word and sentence that he think he have clean forget and he will go back to the ship. i have see. a a prince enter on his kingdom. 
there be a man in our company a young englishman who have just be grant his heart s desire in the shape of some raw district south of everything southerly in the sudan where on two third of a member of parliament s wage under condition of life that would horrify a self respect operative he will see perhaps some dozen white men in a year and will certainly pick up two sort of fever. he have be move to work very hard for this billet by the representation of a friend in the same service who say that it be a rather decent sort of service and he be all of a heat to reach khartum report for duty and fall to. if he be lucky he may get a district where the people be so virtuous that they do not know how to wear any clothe at all and so ignorant that they have never yet come across strong drink. 
the train that take u to cairo be own sister in look and fitting to any south african train for which i love her but she be a trial to some citizen of the unite state who be use to the pullman do not understand the side corridored solid compartment idea. the trouble with a standardise democracy seem to be that once they break loose from their standard they have no prop. people be not leave behind and luggage be rarely mislay on the railroad of the old world. there be an ordain ritual for the handle of all thing to which if a man will only conform and keep quiet he and his will be attend to with the rest. the people that i watch would not believe this. they charge about futilely and waste themselves in try to get ahead of their neighbour. 
here be a fragment from the restaurant car. look at here. me and some friend of mine be go to dine at this table. we don t want to be separate and. 
you ave your number for the service sar. number. what number. we want to dine here_ i tell you. 
you shall get your number sar for the first service. 
haow s that. where in thunder do we get the number anyway. 
i will give you the number sar at the time for place at the first service. 
yes but we want to dine together here right now. 
the service be not yet ready sar. 
and so on and so on. with marching and counter marching and every word nervously italicise. in the end they din precisely where there be room for them in that new world which they have stray into. 
on one side our window look out on darkness of the waste. on the other at the black canal all space with monstrous headlight of the night run steamer. then come town light with electricity govern by mix commission and deal in cotton. such a town for instance a zagazig last see by a very small boy who be lift out of a railway carriage and set down beneath a whitewash wall under naked star in an illimitable emptiness because they tell him the train be on fire. childlike this do not worry him. what stick in his sleepy mind be the absurd name of the place and his father s prophecy that when he grow up he would come that way in a big steamer. 
so all his life the word zagazig carry memory of a brick shed the flicker of an oil lamp s float wick a sky full of eye and an engine cough in a desert at the world s end. which memory return in a restaurant car jolt through what seem to be mile of brilliantly light street and factory. no one at the table have even turn his head for the battlefield of kassassin and tel el kebir. after all why should they. that work be do and child be get ready to be bear who will say. i can remember gondokoro. or el obeid or some undreamed of clapham junction abyssinia way. before a single factory be start before the overhead traffic begin. yes when there be a fever actually fever in the city itself. 
the gap be no great than that between to day s and t other day s zagazig between the horse van of the overland route in lieutenant waghorn s time and the shin motor that flash u to our cairo hotel through what look like the suburb of marseille or rome. 
always keep a new city till morning in the daytime a it be write in the perspicuous book [ ] thou hast long occupation our window give on to the river but before one move toward it one hear the thrill squeal of the kite those same thievish companion of the road who at that hour be watch every englishman s breakfast in every compound and camp from cairo to calcutta. 
[footnote. the koran. ]. 
voice rise from below unintelligible word in maddeningly familiar accent. a black boy in one blue garment climb use his toe a finger the tip mainyard of a nile boat and frame himself in the window. then because he felt happy he sing all among the wheel kite. and beneath our balcony roll very nile himself golden in sunshine wrinkle under strong breeze with a crowd of creak cargo boat wait for a bridge to be open. 
on the cut stone quay above a line of cab driver a ticca gharri stand nothing le loll and chaff and tinker with their harness in every beautiful attitude of the ungirt east. all the grind about be spot with chew sugarcane first sign of the hot weather all the world over. 
troop with startlingly pink face. one would not have notice this yesterday. roll over the girder bridge between churn motor and bubble camel and the whole long coat loose sleeved moslem world be awake and about it business a befit sensible people who pray at dawn. 
i make haste to cross the bridge and to hear the palm in the wind on the far side. they sing a nobly a though they have be true coconut and the thrust of the north wind behind them be almost a open hand a the thrust of the trade. then come a funeral the sheet corpse on the shallow cot the brisk pace bearer. if he be good the sooner he be bury the sooner in heaven. if bad bury him swiftly for the sake of the household either way a the prophet say do not let the mourner go too long weep and hungry. the woman behind toss their arm and lament and men and boy chant low and high. 
they might have come forth from the taksali gate in the city of lahore on just such a cold weather morning a this on their way to the mohammedan burial ground by the river. and the veil countrywoman shuffle side by side elbow press to hip and eloquent right hand pivot round palm uppermost to give value to each shrill phrase might have be the wife of so many punjabi cultivator but that they wear another type of bangle and slipper. a knotty kneed youth sit high on a donkey both amuleted against the evil eye chew three purplish foot of sugar cane which make one envious a well a voluptuously homesick though the sugar cane of egypt be not to be compare with that of bombay. 
han breitmann write somewhere. 
oh if you live in leyden town you ll meet if troot be tell d form of all d freunds dot tie when du werst six year old. 
and they be all there under the chant palm saices orderly pedlar water carrier street cleaner chicken seller and the slate colour buffalo with the china blue eye be talk to by a little girl with the big stick. behind the hedge of well keep garden squat the brown gardener make trench indifferently with a hoe or a toe and under the municipal lamp post lounge the bronze policeman a touch of arab about mouth and lean nostril quite unconcerned with a ferocious row between two donkey men. they be fight across the body of a nubian who have choose to sleep in that place. presently one of them step back on the sleeper s stomach. the nubian grunt elbow himself up roll his eye and pronounce a few utterly dispassionate word. the warrior stop settle their headgear and go away a quickly a the nubian go to sleep again. this be life the real unpolluted stuff worth a desert full of mummy. and right through the middle of it hoot and kick up the nile pass a cook s steamer all ready to take tourist to assuan. from the nubian s point of view she and not himself be the wonder a great a the swiss control swiss staff hotel behind her whose lift maybe the nubian help to run. marids and afrits guardian of hide gold who choke or crush the rash seeker. encounter with the long bury dead in a cairo back alley. undreamed of promotion and suddenly light love be the stuff of any respectable person s daily life. but the white man from across the water arrive in hundred with his unveil womenfolk who build himself fly room and talk along wire who flee up and down the river mad to sit upon camel and ass constrain to throw down silver from both hand at once a child and a warlock this thing must come to the nubian sheer out of the thousand and one night. at any rate the nubian be perfectly sane. have eat he sleep in god s own sunlight and i leave him to visit the fortunate and guard and desirable city of cairo to whose people male and female allah ha give subtlety in abundance. their jester be know to have surpass in refinement the jester of damascus a do their twelve police captain the hardy and most corrupt of bagdad in the tolerant day of harun al raschid. while their old woman not to mention their young wife could deceive the father of lie himself. delhi be a great place most bazaar storyteller in india make their villain hail from there. but when the agony and intrigue be pile high and the tale halt till the very last breathless sprinkle of cowry ha cease to fall on his mat why then with wag head and hook forefinger the storyteller go on. 
but there be a man from cairo an egyptian of the egyptian who and all the crowd know that a bite of real metropolitan devilry be come. 
iii. 
a serpent of old nile. 
modern cairo be an unkempt place. the street be dirty and ill construct the pavement unswept and often break the tramway throw rather than lay down the gutter neglect. one expect good than this in a city where the tourist spend so much every season. grant that the tourist be a dog he come at least with a bone in his mouth and a bone that many people pick. he should have a clean kennel. the official answer be that the tourist traffic be a flea bite compare with the cotton industry. even so land in cairo city must be too valuable to be use for cotton grow. it might just a well be pave or sweep. there be some sort of authority suppose to be in charge of municipal matter but it work be cripple by what be call the capitulation. it be tell to me that every one in cairo except the english who appear to be the mean white of these part ha the privilege of appeal to his consul on every conceivable subject from the disposal of a garbage can to that of a corpse. a almost every one with claim to respectability and certainly every one without any keep a consul it follow that there be one consul per superficial meter arshin or cubit of ezekiel within the city. and since every consul be zealous for the honour of his country and not at all above annoy the english on general principle municipal progress be slow. 
cairo strike one a unventilated and unsterilised even when the sun and wind be scour it together. the tourist talk a good deal a you may see here but the permanent european resident doe not open his mouth more than be necessary sound travel so far across flat water. besides the whole position of thing politically and administratively be essentially false. 
here be a country which be not a country but a longish strip of market garden nominally in charge of a government which be not a government but the disconnect satrapy of a half dead empire control pecksniffingly by a power which be not a power but an agency which agency ha be tie up by year custom and blackmail into all sort of intimate relation with six or seven european power all with right and perquisite none of whose subject seem directly amenable to any power which at first second or third hand be suppose to be responsible. that be the bare outline. to fill in the detail. if any live man know them. would be a easy a to explain baseball to an englishman or the eton wall game to a citizen of the unite state. but it be a fascinate play. there be frenchman in it whose logical mind it offend and they revenge themselves by print the finance report and the catalogue of the bulak museum in pure french. there be german in it whose demand must be carefully weigh not that they can by any mean be satisfy but they serve to block other people s. there be russian in it who do not very much matter at present but will be hear from late. there be italian and greek in it. both rather please with themselves just now. full of the high finance and the fine emotion. there be egyptian pasha in it who come back from paris at interval and ask plaintively to whom they be suppose to belong. there be his highness the khedive in it and he must be consider not a little and there be woman in it up to their eye. and there be great english cotton and sugar interest and angry english importer clamour to know why they cannot do business on rational line or get into the sudan which they hold be ripe for development if the administration there would only see reason. among these conflict interest and amusement sit and perspire the english official whose job be irrigate or drain or reclaim land on behalf of a trifle of ten million people and he find himself trip up by skein of intrigue and bafflement which may ramify through half a dozen harem and four consulate. all this make for suavity toleration and the bless habit of not be surprise at anything whatever. 
or so it seem to me watch a big dance at one of the hotel. every european race and breed and half of the unite state be represent but i fancy i could make out three distinct grouping. the tourist with the steamer trunk crease still across their dear excite back. the military and the official sure of their partner beforehand and say clearly what ought to be say. and a third contingent low voice soft foot and keen eye than the other two at ease a gipsy be on their own grind fling half word in local argot over shoulder at their friend understand on the nod and move by spring common to their clan only. for example a woman be talk flawless english to her partner an english officer. just before the next dance begin another woman beckon to her eastern fashion all four finger flick downward. the first woman cross to a pot palm. the second move toward it also till the two draw up not look at each other the plant between them. then she who have beckon speak in a strange tongue at the palm. the first woman still look away answer in the same fashion with a rush of word that rattle like buckshot through the stiff frond. her tone have nothing to do with that in which she greet her new partner who come up a the music begin. the one be a delicious drawl. the other have be the guttural rasp and click of the kitchen and the bazaar. so she move off and in a little the second woman disappear into the crowd. most likely it be no more than some question of the programme or dress but the prompt feline stealth and coolness of it the lightning quick return to and from world apart civilisation stick in my memory. 
so do the bloodless face of a very old turk fresh from some horror of assassination in constantinople in which he too have be nearly pistolled but they say he have argue quietly over the body of a late colleague a one to whom death be of no moment until the hysterical young turk be abash and let him get away to the light and music of this elegantly appoint hotel. 
these modern arabian night be too hectic for quiet folk. i decline upon a more rational cairo the arab city where everything be a it be when maruf the cobbler flee from fatima el orra and meet the djinn in the adelia musjid. the craftsman and merchant sit on their shop board a rich mystery of darkness behind them and the narrow gully be polish to shoulder height by the mere flux of people. shoe white men unless they be agriculturist touch lightly with their hand at most in pass. easterns lean and loll and squat and sidle against thing a they daunder along. when the foot be bare the whole body think. moreover it be unseemly to buy or to do aught and be do with it. only people with tight fit clothe that need no attention have time for that. so we of the loose skirt and flow trouser and slack slipper make full and ample salutation to our friend and redouble them toward our ill wishers and if it be a question of purchase the stuff must be finger and appraise with a proverb or so and if it be a fool tourist who think that he cannot be cheat o true believer. draw near and witness how we shall loot him. 
but i buy nothing. the city thrust more treasure upon me than i could carry away. it come out of dark alleyway on tawny camel load with pot. on patter ass half bury under net of cut clover. in the exquisitely model hand of little child scurry home from the cookshop with the even meal chin press against the platter s edge and eye round with responsibility above the pile. in the break light from jut room overhead where the woman lie chin between palm look out of window not a foot from the floor. in every glimpse into every courtyard where the men smoke by the tank. in the heap of rubbish and rotten brick that flank newly paint house wait to be build some day into house once more. in the slap and slide or the heelless red and yellow slipper all around and above all in the mix delicious smell of fry butter mohammedan bread kababs leather cook smoke assafetida pepper and turmeric. devil cannot abide the smell of burn turmeric but the right mind man love it. it stand for even that bring all home the even meal the dip of friendly hand in the dish the one face the drop veil and the big gutter pipe afterward. 
praise be allah for the diversity of his creature and for the five advantage of travel and for the glory of the city of the earth. harun al raschid in roar bagdad of old never delight himself to the limit of such a delight a be mine that afternoon. it be true that the call to prayer the cadence of some of the street cry and the cut of some of the garment differ a little from what i have be bring up to. but for the rest the shadow on the dial have turn back twenty degree for me and i find myself say a perhaps the dead say when they have recover their wit this be my real world again. 
some men be mohammedan by birth some by train and some by fate but i have never meet an englishman yet who hat islam and it people a i have meet englishman who hat some other faith. musalmani awadani_ a the say go where there be mohammedan there be a comprehensible civilisation. 
then we come upon a desert mosque of pit brick colonnade round a vast courtyard open to the pale sky. it be utterly empty except for it own proper spirit and that catch one by the throat a one enter. christian church may compromise with image and side chapel where the unworthy or abash can traffic with accessible saint. islam ha but one pulpit and one stark affirmation live or die one only and where men have repeat that in red hot belief through century the air still shake to it. 
some say now that islam be die and that nobody care. others that if she wither in europe and asia she will renew herself in africa and will return terrible after certain year at the head of all the nine son of ham. others dream that the english understand islam a no one else doe and in year to be islam will admit this and the world will be change. if you go to the mosque al azhar the thousand year old university of cairo you will be able to decide for yourself. there be nothing to see except many court cool in hot weather surround by cliff like brick wall. men come and go through dark doorway give on to yet dark cloister a freely a though the place be a bazaar. there be no aggressive educational appliance. the student sit on the grind and their teacher instruct them mostly by word of mouth in grammar syntax logic. al hisab_ which be arithmetic. al jab r w al muqabalah_ which be algebra. at tafsir commentary on the koran and last and most troublesome al ahadis tradition and yet more commentary on the law of islam which lead back like everything to the koran once again. for it be write truly the quran be none other than a revelation. it be a very comprehensive curriculum. no man can master it entirely but any can stay there a long a he plea. the university provide common twenty five thousand loaf a day i believe and there be always a place to lie down in for such a do not desire a shut room and a bed. nothing could be more simple or give certain condition more effective. close upon six hundred professor who represent officially or unofficially every school or think teach ten or twelve thousand student who draw from every mohammedan community west and east between manila and morocco north and south between kamchatka and the malay mosque at cape town. these drift off to become teacher of little school preacher at mosque student of the law know to million. but rarely to european. dreamer devotee or miracle worker in all the end of the earth. the man who interest me most be a red beard sink eye mullah from the indian frontier not likely to be last at any distribution of food who stand up like a lean wolfhound among collie in a little assembly at a doorway. 
and there be another mosque sumptuously carpet and light. which the prophet doe not approve of. where men pray in the dull mutter that at time mount and increase under the dome like the boom of drum or the surge of a hot hive before the swarm fling out. and round the corner of it one almost run into our inconspicuous and wholly detach private of infantry his tunic open his cigarette alight lean against some railing and consider the city below. men in fort and citadel and garrison all the world over go up at twilight a automatically a sheep at sundown to have a last look round. they say little and return a silently across the crunch gravel detest by bare foot to their whitewash room and regulate life. one of the men tell me he think well of cairo. it be interest. take it from me he say there s a lot in see place because you can remember em afterward. 
he be very right. the purple and lemon colour haze of dusk and reflect day spread over the throb twinkle street mask the great outline of the citadel and the desert hill and conspire to confuse and suggest and evoke memory till cairo the sorceress cast her proper shape and dance before me in the heartbreaking liken of every city i have know and love a little farther up the road. 
it be a cruel double magic. for in the very hour that my homesick soul have surrender itself to the dream of the shadow that have turn back on the dial i realise all the desolate day and homesickness of all the men pen in far off place among strange sound and smell. 
iv. 
up the river. 
once upon a time there be a murderer who get off with a life sentence. what impress him most when he have time to think be the frank boredom of all who take part in the ritual. 
it be just like go to a doctor or a dentist he explain. you come to em very full of your affair and then you discover that it s only part of their daily work to them. i expect he add i should have find it the same if er i d go on to the finish. 
he would have. break into any new hell or heaven and you will be meet at it well wear threshold by the bore expert in attendance. 
for three week we sit on copiously chair and carpet deck carefully isolate from everything that have anything to do with egypt under chaperonage of a properly orientalise dragoman. twice or thrice daily our steamer draw up at a mud bank cover with donkey. saddle be haul out of a hatch in our bow. the donkey be dress deal round like card. we ride off through crop or desert a the case might be be introduce in ring tone to a temple and be then duly return to our bridge and our baedeker. for sheer comfort not to say pad sloth the life be unequalled and since the bulk of our passenger be citizen of the unite state egypt in winter ought to be admit into the union a a temporary territory there be no lack of interest. they be overwhelmingly woman with here and there a placid nose lead husband or father visibly suffer from congestion of information about his native city. i have the joy of see two such men meet. they turn their back resolutely on the river bite and light cigar and for one hour and a quarter cease not to emit statistic of the industry commerce manufacture transport and journalism of their town. los angeles let u say and rochester n. y. it sound like a duel between two cash register. 
one forget of course that all the dreary figure be alive to them and a los angeles speak rochester visualise. next day i meet an englishman from the soudan end of thing very full of a little know railway which have be lay down in what have look like raw desert and therefore have turn out to be full of pay freight. he be in the full tide of it when los angeles range alongside and cast anchor fascinate by the mere roll of number. 
haow s that. he cut in sharply at a pause. 
he be tell how and go on to drain my friend dry concern that railroad out of sheer fraternal interest a he explain in any darn thing that s be make anywheres. 
so you see my friend go on we shall be bring abyssinian cattle into cairo. 
on the hoof. one quick glance at the desert range. 
no no. by rail and river. and after that we re go to grow cotton between the blue and the white nile and knock spot out of the state. 
ha ow s that. 
this way. the speaker spread his first and second finger fanwise under the big interest beak. that s the blue nile. and that s the white. there s a difference of so many foot between em an in that fork here tween my finger we shall. 
i see. irrigate on the strength of the little difference in the level. how many acre. 
again los angeles be tell. he expand like a frog in a shower. an i think he murmur egypt be all mummy and the bible. i use to know something about cotton. now we ll talk. 
all that day the two pace the deck with the absorb insolente of lover. and lover like each would steal away and tell me what a splendid soul be his companion. 
that be one type. but there be others professional men who do not make or sell thing and these the hand of an all exact democracy seem to have run into one mould. they be not reticent but no matter whence they hail their talk be a standardise a the fitting of a pullman. 
i hint something of this to a woman aboard who be learn in their sermon of either language. 
i think she begin that the staleness you complain of. 
i never say staleness i protest. 
but you think it. the staleness you notice be due to our men be so largely educate by old woman old maid. practically till he go to college and not always then a boy can t get away from them. 
then what happen. 
the natural result. a man s instinct be to teach a boy to think for himself. if a woman can t make a boy think a she think she sit down and cry. a man hasn t any standard. he make em. a woman s the most standardise be in the world. she ha to be. now d you see. 
not yet. 
well our trouble in america be that we re be school marmed to death. you can see it in any paper you pick up. what be those men talk about just now. 
food adulteration police reform and beautify waste lot in town i reply promptly. 
she throw up her hand. i know it. she cry. our great national policy of co educational housekeep. ham frill and pillow sham. do you ever know a man get a woman s respect by parade around creation with a dish clout pin to his coat tail. 
but if his woman ord tell him to do it. i suggest. 
then she d despise him the more for do it. you needn t laugh. you re come to the same sort of thing in england. 
i return to the little gather. a woman be talk to them a one accustom to talk from birth. they listen with the rigid attention of men early train to listen to but not to talk with woman. she be to put it mildly the mother of all she bore but when she move on no man venture to say a much. 
that s what i mean by be school man to death say my acquaintance wickedly. why she bore em stiff. but they be so well bring up they didn t even know they be bore. some day the american man be go to revolt. 
and what ll the american woman do. 
she ll sit and cry and it ll do her good. 
late on i meet a woman from a certain western state see god s great happy inattentive world for the first time and rather distress that it be not like hers. she have always understand that the english be brutal to their wife the paper of her state say so. if you only know the paper of her state i. but she have not notice any scandalous treatment so far and englishwoman whom she admit she would never understand seem to enjoy a certain specious liberty and equality. while englishman be distinctly kind to girl in difficulty over their baggage and ticket on strange railway. quite a nice people she conclude but without much sense of humour. one day she show me what look like a fashion paper print of a dress stuff a pretty oval medallion of star on a strip grenadine background that somehow seem familiar. 
how nice. what be it. i ask. 
our national flag she reply. 
indeed. but it doesn t look quite. 
no. this be a new design for arrange the star so that they shall be easy to count and more decorative in effect. we re go to take a vote on it in our state where we have the franchise. i shall cast my vote when i get home. 
really. and how will you vote. 
i m just think that out. she spread the picture on her knee and consider it head to one side a though it be indeed dress material. 
all this while the land of egypt march solemnly beside u on either hand. the river be low we saw it from the boat a one long plinth twelve to twenty foot high of brownish purplish mud visibly uphold every hundred yard or so by glisten copper caryatides in the shape of naked men bale water up to the crop above. behind that bright emerald line run the fawn or tiger colour background of desert and a pale blue sky close all. there be egypt even a the pharaoh their engineer and architect have see it land to cultivate folk and cattle for the work and outside that work no distraction nor allurement of any kind whatever save when the dead be take to their place beyond the limit of cultivation. when the bank grow low one look across a much a two mile of green stuff pack like a toy noah s ark with people camel sheep goat ox buffalo and an occasional horse. the beast stand a still too a the toy because they be tether or hobble each to his own half circle of clover and move forward when that be eat. only the very little kid be loose and these play on the flat mud roof like kitten. 
no wonder every shepherd be an abomination to the egyptian. the dusty naked foot field track be cut down to the last centimetre of grudge width. the main road be lift high on the flank of the canal unless the permanent way of some light railroad can be press to do duty for them. the wheat the pale ripen tufted sugar cane the millet the barley the onion the fringe castor oil bush jostle each other for foothold since the desert will not give them room. and men chase the fall nile inch by inch each dawn with new furrow melon bed on the still drip mud bank. 
administratively such a land ought to be a joy. the people do not emigrate. all their resource be in plain sight. they be a accustom a their cattle to be lead about. all they desire and it ha be give them be freedom from murder and mutilation rape and robbery. the rest they can attend to in their silent palm shade village where the pigeon coo and the little child play in the dust. 
but western civilisation be a devastate and a selfish game. like the young woman from our state it say in effect. i be rich. i ve nothing to do. i must do something. i shall take up social reform. 
just now there be a little social reform in egypt which be rather amuse. the egyptian cultivator borrow money. a all farmer must. this land without hedge or wild flower be his passion by age long inheritance and suffer by in and for which he life. he borrow to develop it and to buy more at from £ to £ per acre the profit on which when all be pay work out at between £ to £ per acre. formerly he borrow from the local money lender mostly greek at per cent per annum and over. this rate be not excessive so long a public opinion allow the borrower from time to time to slay the lender. but modern administration call that riot and murder. some year ago therefore there be establish a state guarantee bank which lend to the cultivator at eight per cent and the cultivator zealously avail himself of that privilege. he do not default more than in reason but be a farmer he naturally do not pay up till threaten with be sell up. so he prosper and buy more land which be his heart s desire. this year the administration issue sudden order that no man own le than five acre could borrow on security of his land. the matter interest me directly because i hold five hundred pound worth of share in that state guarantee bank and more than half our client be small men of le than five acre. so i make inquiry in quarter that seem to posse information and be tell that the new law be precisely on all four with the homestead act or the unite state and france and the intention of divine providence or word to that effect. 
but i ask win t this limitation of credit prevent the men with le than five acre from borrow more to buy more land and get on in the world. 
yes be the answer of course it will. that s just what we want to prevent. half these fellow ruin themselves try to buy more land. we ve get to protect them against themselves. 
that ala. be the one enemy against which no law can protect any son of adam. since the real reason that make or break a man be too absurd or too obscene to be reach from outside. then i cast about in other quarter to discover what the cultivator be go to do about it. 
oh him. say one of my many informant. he s all right. there be about six way of evade the act that i know of. the fellah probably know another six. he ha be train to look after himself since the day of ram. he can forge land transfer for one thing. borrow land enough to make his hold more than five acre for a long a it take to register a loan. get money from his own woman. yes that s one result of modern progress in this land. or go back to his old friend the greek at per cent. 
then the greek will sell him up and that will be against the law win t it. i say. 
don t you worry about the greek. he can get through any law ever make if there s five piastre on the other side of it. 
maybe. but be the agricultural bank sell the cultivator up too much. 
not in the least. the number of small holding be on the increase if anything. most cultivator win t pay a loan until you point a judgment summon at their head. they think that show they re men of consequence. this swell the number of judgment summons issue but it doesn t mean a land sale for each summon. another fact be that in real life some men don t get on a well a others. either they don t farm well enough or they take to hashish or go crazy about a girl and borrow money for her or er something of that kind and they be sell up. you may have notice that. 
i have. and meantime what be the fellah do. 
meantime the fellah ha misread the act a usual. he think it s retrospective and that he needn t pay past debt. they may make trouble but i fancy your bank will keep quiet. 
keep quiet. with the bottom knock out of two third of it business and and my five hundred pound involve. 
be that your trouble. i don t think your share will rise in a hurry. but if you want some fun go and talk to the french about it. 
this seem a good a way a any of get a little interest. the frenchman that i go to speak with a certain knowledge of finance and politics and the natural malice of a logical race against an illogical horde. 
yes he say. the idea of limit credit under these circumstance be absurd. but that be not all. people be not frighten business be not upset by one absurd idea but by the possibility of more. 
be there any more idea then that be go to be try on this country. 
two or three he reply placidly. they be all generous. but they be all ridiculous. egypt be not a place where one should promulgate ridiculous idea. 
but my share my share. i cry. they have already drop several point. 
it be possible. they will drop more. then they will rise. 
thank you. but why. 
because the idea be fundamentally absurd. that will never be admit by your people but there will be arrangement accommodation adjustment till it be all the same a it use to be. it will be the concern of the permanent official poor devil. to pull it straight. it be always his concern. meantime price will rise for all thing. 
why. 
because the land be the chief security in egypt. if a man cannot borrow on that security the rate of interest will increase on whatever other security he offer. that will affect all work and wage and government contract. 
he put it so convincingly and with so many historical illustration that i saw whole perspective of the old energetic pharaoh master of life and death along the river check in mid career by cold blood accountant chant that not even the god themselves can make two plus two more than four. and the vision run down through the age to one little earnest head on a cook s steamer bend sideways over the vital problem of rearrange our national flag so that it should be easy to count the star. 
for the thousandth time. praise be allah for the diversity of his creature. 
v. 
dead king. 
the swiss be the only people who have take the trouble to master the art of hotel keep. consequently in the thing that really matter bed bath and victual they control egypt. and since every land always throw back to it aboriginal life. which be why the unite state delight in tell age story. any ancient egyptian would at once understand and join in with the life that roar through the nickel plumb tourist barrack on the river where all the world frolic in the sunshine. at first sight the show lend itself to cheap moralise till one recall that one only see busy folk when they be idle and rich folk when they have make their money. a citizen of the unite state his first trip abroad point out a middle age anglo saxon who be relax after the manner of several school boy. 
there s a sample. say the son of hustle scornfully. tell me he ever do anything in his life. unluckily he have pitch upon one who when he be in collar reckon thirteen and a half hour a fairish day s work. 
among this assembly be men and woman burn to an even blue black tint civilise people with bleach hair and sparkle eye. they explain themselves a digger just digger and open me a new world. grant that all egypt be one big undertaker s emporium what could be more fascinate than to get government leave to rummage in a corner of it to form a little company and spend the cold weather try to pay dividend in the shape of amethyst necklace lapis lazuli scarab pot of pure gold and priceless bit of statuary. or if one be rich what good fun than to grub stake an expedition on the suppose site of a dead city and see what turn up. there be a big game hunter who have use most of the continent quite carry away by this sport. 
i m go to take share in a city next year and watch the dig myself he say. it beat elephant to piece. in this game you re dig up dead thing and make them alive. aren t you go to have a flutter. 
he show me a seductive little prospectus. myself i would sooner not lay hand on a dead man s kit or equipment especially when he ha go to his grave in the belief that the trinket guarantee salvation. of course there be the other argument put forward by sceptic that the egyptian be a blatant self advertiser and that nothing would please him more than the think that he be be look at and admire after all these year. still one might rob some shrink soul who didn t see it in that light. 
at the end of spring the digger flock back out of the desert and exchange chaff and flews in the gorgeous verandah. for example a s company ha make a find of priceless stuff heaven know how old and be not too meek about it. company b le fortunate hint that if only a know to what extent their native digger have be steal and dispose of the theft under their very archaeological nose they would not be so happy. 
nonsense say company a. our digger be above suspicion. besides we watch em. 
be they. be the reply. well next time you be in berlin go to the museum and you ll see what the german have get hold of. it must have come out of your grind. the dynasty prof it. so a s cup be poison till next year. 
no collector or curator of a museum should have any moral scruple whatever. and i have never meet one who have. though i have be inform by deeply shock informant of four nationality that the german be the most flagrant pirate of all. 
the business of exploration be about a romantic a earth work on indian railway. there be the same narrow gauge tram and donkey the same shin gang in the borrow pit and the same skirl dark blue crowd of woman and child with the little earth basket. but the hoe be not drive in nor the clod jerk aside at random and when the work fringe along the base of some mighty wall men use their hand carefully. a white man or he be white at breakfast time patrol through the continually renew dust haze. week may pas without a single bead but anything may turn up at any moment and it be his to answer the shout of discovery. 
we have the good fortune to stay a while at the headquarter of the metropolitan museum. new york. in a valley riddle like a rabbit warren with tomb. their stable store house and servant quarter be old tomb. their talk be of tomb and their dream. the digger dream always. be to discover a virgin tomb where the untouched dead lie with their jewel upon them. four mile away be the wide wing rampant hotel. here be nothing whatever but the rubbish of death that die thousand of year ago on whose grave no green thing ha ever grow. village expert in two hundred generation of grave rob cower among the mound of wastage and whoop at the daily tourist. path make by bare foot run from one half tomb half mud heap to the next not much more distinct than snail smear but they have be use since. 
time be a dangerous thing to play with. that morning the concierge have toil for u among steamer sailing to see if we could save three day. that even we sit with folk for whom time have stand still since the ptolemy. i wonder at first how it concern them or any man if such and such a pharaoh have use to his own glory the plinth and column of such another pharaoh before or after melchizedek. their whole background be too inconceivably remote for the mind to work on. but the next morning we be take to the paint tomb of a noble a minister of agriculture who die four or five thousand year ago. he say to me in so many word. observe i be very like your friend the late mr. samuel pepys of your admiralty. i take an enormous interest in life which i most thoroughly enjoy on it human and on it spiritual side. i do not think you will find many department of state good manage than mine or a good keep house or a nice set of young people. my daughter. the eldest a you can see take after her mother. the young my favourite be suppose to favour me. now i will show you all the thing that i do and delight in till it be time for me to present my account elsewhere. and he show me detail by detail in colour and in draw his cattle his horse his crop his tour in the district his accountant present the revenue return and he himself busy of the busy in the good day. 
but when we leave that broad gay ante room and come to the narrow passage where once his body have lie and where all his doom be portray i could not follow him so well. i do not see how he so experience in life could be cow by frieze of brute head apparition or satisfy by file of repeat figure. he explain something to this effect. 
we live on the river a line without breadth or thickness. behind u be the desert which nothing can affect. wither no man go till he be dead. one doe not use good agricultural grind for cemetery. practically then we only move in two dimension up stream or down. take away the desert which we don t consider any more than a healthy man consider death and you will see that we have no background whatever. our world be all one straight bar of brown or green earth and for some month mere sky reflect water that wipe out everything you have only to look at the colossus to realise how enormously and extravagantly man and his work must scale in such a country. remember too that our crop be sure and our life be very very easy. above all we have no neighbour that be to say we must give out for we cannot take in. now i put it to you what be leave for a priest with imagination except to develop ritual and multiply god on frieze. unlimited leisure limit space of two dimension divide by the hypnotise line of the river and bound by visible unalterable death must ipso facto. 
even so i interrupt. i do not comprehend your god your direct worship of beast for instance. 
you prefer the indirect. the worship of humanity with a capital h. my god or what i saw in them content me. 
what do you see in your god a affect belief and conduct. 
you know the answer to the riddle of the sphinx. 
no i murmur. what be it. 
all sensible men be of the same religion but no sensible man ever tell he reply. with that i have to be content for the passage end in solid rock. 
there be other tomb in the valley but the owner be dumb except one pharaoh who from the high motif have break with the creed and instinct of his country and so have all but wreck it. one of his discovery be an artist who saw men not on one plane but model full or three quarter face with limb suit to their load and posture. his vividly realise stuff leap to the eye out of the acreage of low relief in the old convention and i applaud a a properly bring up tourist should. 
mine be a fatal mistake pharaoh ahkenaton sigh in my ear i mistake the convention of life for the reality. 
ah those soul cripple convention. i cry. 
you mistake me_ he answer more stiffly. i be so sure of their reality that i think that they be really lie whereas they be only invent to cover the raw fact of life. 
ah those raw fact of life. i cry still loud. for it be not often that one ha a chance of impress a pharaoh. we must face them with open eye and an open mind. do you. 
i have no opportunity of avoid them he reply. i break every convention in my land. 
oh noble. and what happen. 
what happen when you strip the cover off a hornet s nest. the raw fact of life be that mankind be just a little low than the angel and the convention be base on that fact in order that men may become angel. but if you begin a i do by the convention that men be angel they will assuredly become big beast than ever. 
that i say firmly be altogether out of date. you should have bring a large mentality a more vital uplift and er all that sort of thing to bear on all that sort of thing you know. 
i do say ahkenaton gloomily. it break me. and he too go dumb among the ruin. 
there be a valley of rock and stone in every shade of red and brown call the valley of the king where a little oil engine cough behind it hand all day long grind electricity to light the face of dead pharaoh a hundred foot underground. all down the valley during the tourist season stand char a bancs and donkey and sand cart with here and there exhaust couple who have drop out of the procession and glisten and fan themselves in some scrap of shade. along the side of the valley be the tomb of the king neatly number a it might be mine adit with concrete step lead up to them and iron grille that lock of night and doorkeeper of the department of antiquity demand the proper ticket. one enter and from deep below deep hear the voice of dragoman boom through the name and title of the illustrious and thrice puissant dead. rock cut step go down into hot still darkness passage twist and be lead over blind pit which men say the wise builder childishly hop would be take for the real tomb by thief to come. up and down these alley way clatter all the race of europe with a solid back of the unite state. their footstep be suddenly blunt on the floor of a hall pave with immemorial dust that will never dance in any wind. they peer up at the blazon ceiling stoop down to the minutely decorate wall crane and follow the sombre splendour of a cornice draw in their breath and climb up again to the fierce sunshine to re dive into the next adit on their programme. what they think proper to say they say aloud and some of it be very interest. what they feel you can guess from a certain haste in their movement something between the shrink modesty of a man under fire and the hadn t we good be get on attitude of visitor to a mine. after all it be not natural for man to go underground except for business or for the last time. he be conscious of the weight of mother earth overhead and when to her expectant bulk be add the whole beak horn wing and crown hierarchy of a lose faith flame at every turn of his eye he naturally wish to move away. even the sight of a very great king indeed sarcophagused under electric light in a hall full of most fortify picture doe not hold him too long. 
some men assert that the crypt of st. peter s with only nineteen century bear down on the groin and the tomb of early pope and king all about be more impressive than the valley of the king because it explain how and out of what an exist creed grow. but the valley of the king explain nothing except that most terrible line in macbeth. 
to the last syllable of record time. 
earth open her dry lip and say it. 
in one of the tomb there be a little chamber whose ceiling probably because of a fault in the rock could not be smooth off like the others. so the decorator very cunningly cover it with a closely design cloth pattern just such a chintz like piece of stuff a in real life one would use to underhang a rough roof with. he do it perfectly down there in the dark and go his way. thousand of year late there be bear a man of my acquaintance who for good and sufficient reason have an almost insane horror of anything in the nature of a ceiling cloth. he use to make excuse for not go into the dry good shop at christmas when hastily enlarge annex be hide roof and side with embroidery. perhaps a snake or a lizard have drop on his mother from the roof before he be bear. perhaps it be the memory of some hideous fever bout in a tent. at any rate that man s idea of the torment be a hot crowd underground room underhung with pattern cloth. once in his life at a city in the far north where he have to make a speech he meet that perfect combination. they lead him up and down narrow crowd steam heat passage till they plant him at last in a room without visible window. by which he know he be underground. and directly beneath a warm pattern ceiling cloth rather like a tent line. and there he have to say his say while panic terror sit in his throat. the second time be in the valley of the king where very similar passage crowd with people lead him into a room cut of rock fathom underground with what look like a sag chintz cloth not three foot above his head. the man i d like to catch he say when he come outside again be that decorator man. d you suppose he mean to produce that effect. 
every man ha his private terror other than those of his own conscience. from what i saw in the valley of the king the egyptian seem to have know this some time ago. they certainly have impress it on most unexpected people. i hear two voice down a passage talk together a follow. 
she. i guess we weren t ever mean to see these old tomb from inside anyway. 
he. how so. 
she. for one thing they believe so hard in be dead. of course their outlook on spiritual thing wasn t a broad a ours. 
he. well there s no danger of our be lead away by it. do you buy that allege scarab off the dragoman this morning. 
vi. 
the face of the desert. 
go up the nile be like run the gauntlet before eternity. till one ha see it one doe not realise the amaze thinness of that little damp trickle of life that steal along undefeated through the jaw of establish death. a rifle shoot would cover the wide limit of cultivation a bow shoot would reach the narrow. once beyond them a man may carry his next drink with him till he reach cape blanco on the west. where he may signal for one from a pass union castle boat. or the karachi club on the east. say four thousand dry mile to the leave hand and three thousand to the right. 
the weight of the desert be on one every day and every hour. at morning when the cavalcade tramp along in the rear of the tulip like dragoman she say. i be here just beyond that ridge of pink sand that you be admire. come along pretty gentleman and i ll tell you your fortune. but the dragoman say very clearly. please sar do not separate yourself at all from the main body which the desert know well you have no think of do. at noon when the steward rummage out lunch drink from the dewy ice chest the desert whine loud than the well wheel on the bank. i be here only a quarter of a mile away. for mercy s sake pretty gentleman spare a mouthful of that prickly whisky and soda you be lift to your lip. there s a white man a few hundred mile off die on my lap of thirst thirst that you cure with a rag dip in lukewarm water while you hold him down with the one hand and he think he be curse you aloud but he isn t because his tongue be outside his mouth and he can t get it back. thank you_ my noble captain. for naturally one tip half the drink over the rail with the ancient prayer. may it reach him who need it and turn one s back on the pulse ridge and fluid horizon that be begin their mid day mirage dance. 
at even the desert obtrude again trick out a a nautch girl in veil of purple saffron gold tinsel and grass green. she posture shamelessly before the delight tourist with weave skein of homeward fly pelican fringe of wild duck black spot on crimson and cheap jewellery of opal cloud. notice me. she cry like any other worthless woman. admire the play of my mobile feature the revelation of my multi colour soul. observe my allurement and potentiality. thrill while i stir you. so she float through all her change and retire upstage into the arm of the dusk. but at midnight she drop all pretence and bear down in her natural shape which depend upon the conscience of the beholder and his distance from the next white man. 
you will observe in the benedicite omnia opera that the desert be the sole thing not enjoin to bless the lord praise him and magnify him for ever. this be because when our illustrious father the lord adam and his august consort the lady eve be expel from eden eblis the accurse fearful l mankind should return ultimately to the favour of allah set himself to burn and lay waste all the land east and west of eden. 
oddly enough the garden of eden be almost the exact centre of all the world s desert count from gobi to timbuctoo. and all that land qua land be dismiss from the mercy of god. those who use it do so at their own risk. consequently the desert produce her own type of man exactly a the sea doe. i be fortunate enough to meet one sample age perhaps twenty five. his work take him along the edge of the red sea where men on swift camel come to smuggle hashish and sometimes gun from dhow that put in to any convenient beach. these smuggler must be chase on still swift camel and since the well be few and know the game be to get ahead of them and occupy their drink place. 
but they may skip a well or so and do several day march in one. then their pursuer must take e en great risk and make crueller march that the law may be uphold. the one thing in the law s favour be that hashish smell abominably bad than a heat camel so when they range alongside no time be lose in listen to lie. it be not tell to me how they navigate themselves across the break waste or by what art they keep alive in the dust storm and heat. that be take for grant and the man who take it so consider himself the most commonplace of mortal. he be deeply move by the account of a new aerial route which the french be lay out somewhere in the sahara over a waterless stretch of four hundred mile where if the aeroplane be disable between station the pilot will most likely die and dry up beside it. to do the desert justice she rarely bother to wipe out evidence of a kill. there be place in the desert men say where even now you come across the dead of old battle all a light a last year s wasp nest lay down in swath or string out in flight with here and there the little sparkle line of the empty cartridge case that drop them. 
there be valley and ravine that the crazy smuggler do not care to refuge in at certain time of the year. a there be rest house where one s native servant will not stay because they be challenge on their way to the kitchen by sentry of old soudanese regiment which have long go over to paradise. and of voice and warning and outcry behind rock there be no end. these last arise from the fact that men very rarely live in a spot so utterly still that they can hear the murmur race of the blood over their own ear drum. neither ship prairie nor forest give that silence. i go out to find it once when our steamer tie up and the rest of them have go to see a sight but i never dare venture more than a mile from our funnel smoke. at that point i come upon a hill honey comb with graf that hold a multitude of paper white skull all grin cheerfully like ambassador of the desert. but i do not accept their invitation. they have tell me that all the little devil learn to draw in the desert which explain the elaborate and purposeless detail that fill it. none but devil could think of etch every rock outcrop with wind line or skin it down to it glisten nerve with sand blast. of arrange hill in the liken of pyramid and sphinx and wreck town suburb. of cover the space of half an english county with sepia study of interlace and recrossing ravine dongas and nullah each an exposition of much too clever perspective. and of wipe out the half finish work with a wash of sand in three tint only to pick it up again in silver point on the horizon s edge. this they do in order to make lose traveller think they can recognise landmark and run about identify them till the madness come. the desert be all devil device a you might say blast cleverness cram with futile work always promise something fresh round the next corner always lead out through heap decoration and over insistent design into equal barrenness. 
there be a morning of morning when we lay opposite the rock hew temple of abu simbel where four great figure each sixty foot high sit with their hand on their knee wait for judgment day. at their foot be a little breadth of blue green crop. they seem to hold back all the weight of the desert behind them which none the le lip over at one side in a cataract of vivid orange sand. the tourist be recommend to see the sunrise here either from within the temple where it fall on a certain altar erect by ram in his own honour or from without where another power take charge. 
the star have pal when we begin our watch. the river bird be just whisper over their toilette in the uncertain purplish light. then the river dimmered up like pewter. the line of the ridge behind the temple show itself against a milkiness in the sky. one felt rather than saw that there be four figure in the pit of gloom below it. these block themselves out huge enough but without any special terror while the glorious ritual of the eastern dawn go forward. some reed of the bank reveal itself by reflection black on silver. arch wing flap and jar the still water to splinter glass. the desert ridge turn to topaz and the four figure stand clear yet without shadow from their background. the strong light flood them red from head to foot and they become alive a horridly and tensely yet blindly alive a pinion men in the death chair before the current be switch on. one felt that if by any miracle the dawn could be delay a second long they would tear themselves free and leap forth to heaven know what sort of vengeance. but that instant the full sun pin them in their place nothing more than statue slash with light and shadow and another day get to work. 
a few yard to the leave of the great image close to the statue of an egyptian princess whose face be the very face of she there be a marble slab over the grave of an english officer kill in a fight against dervish nearly a generation ago. 
from abu simbel to wady halfa the river escape from the domination of the pharaoh begin to talk about dead white men. thirty year ago young english officer in india lie and intrigue furiously that they might be attach to expedition whose base be sometimes at suakim sometimes quite in the desert air but all of whose deed be now quite forget. occasionally the dragoman wave a smooth hand east or south easterly will speak of some fight. then every one murmur. oh yes. that be gordon of course or be that before or after omdurman. but the river be much more precise. a the boat quarter the fall stream like a puzzle hound all the old name spurt up again under the paddle wheel hick army val baker el teb tokar tamai tamanieb and osman digna. her head swing round for another slant. we cannot land english or indian troop. if consult recommend abandonment of the soudan within certain limit. that be my lord granville chirrup to the adviser of his highness the khedive and the sentence come back a crisp a when it first shock one in. next here be a long reach between flood palm tree next of course come gordon and a delightfully mad irish war correspondent who be lock up with him in khartoum. gordon eighty four eighty five the suakim berber railway really begin and quite a really abandon. korti abu klea the desert column a steamer call the safieh not the condor_ which rescue two other steamer wreck on their way back from a khartoum in the red hand of the mahdi of those day. then the smooth glide over deep water continue another suakim expedition with a great deal of osman digna and renew attempt to build the suakim berber railway. hashin say the paddle wheel slow all of a sudden macneill s zareba the th sikh and another native regiment osman digna in great pride and power and wady halfa a frontier town. tamai once more. another siege of suakim. gemaiza. handub. trinkitat and tokar. 
the river recall the name. the mind at once bring up the face and every trick of speech of some youth meet for a few hour maybe in a train on the way to egypt of the old day. both name and face have utterly vanish from one s memory till then. 
it be another generation that pick up the ball ten year late and touch down in khartoum. several people aboard the cook boat have be to that city. they all agree that the hotel charge be very high but that you could buy the most delightful curiosity in the native bazaar. but i do not like bazaar of the egyptian kind since a discovery i make at assouan. there be an old man a mussulman who press me to buy some truck or other but not with the villainous camaraderie that generation of low caste tourist have teach the people nor yet with the cosmopolitan light handedness of appeal which the town breed egyptian pick up much too quickly. but with a certain desperate zeal foreign to his whole creed and nature. he finger he implore he fawn with an unsteady eye and while i wonder i saw behind him the puffy pink face of a fezzed jew watch him a a stoat watch a rabbit. when he move the jew follow and take position at a command angle. the old man glance from me to him and renew his solicitation. so one could imagine an elderly hare thump wildly on a tambourine with the stoat behind him. they tell me afterwards that jew own most of the stall in assouan bazaar the mussulmans work for them since tourist need oriental colour. never have see or imagine a jew coerce a mussulman this colour be new and displease to me. 
vii. 
the riddle of empire. 
at halfa one feel the first breath of a frontier. here the egyptian government retire into the background and even the cook steamer doe not draw up in the exact centre of the postcard. at the telegraph office too there be trace dilute but quite recognisable of military administration. nor doe the town in any way or place whatever smell which be proof that it be not look after on popular line. there be nothing to see in it any more than there be in hulk c. late of her majesty s troopship himalaya_ now a coal hulk in the hamoaze at plymouth. a river front a narrow terrace river walk of semi oriental house barrack a mosque and half a dozen street at right angle the desert race up to the end of each make all the town. a mile or so up stream under palm tree be bungalow of what must have be cantonment some machinery repair shop and odds and end of railway track. it be all a paltry a collection of whitewash house pitiful garden dead wall and tread waste space a one would wish to find anywhere. and every bite of it quiver with the remember life of army and river fleet a the finger bowl ring when the rub finger be lift. the most unlikely men have do time there. store by the thousand ton have be roll and push and haul up the bank by ten of thousand of scatter hand. hospital have pitch themselves there expand enormously shrivel up and drift away with the drift regiment. railway siding by the mile have be lay down and rip up again a need change and utterly wipe out by the sand. 
halfa ha be the rail head army headquarter and hub of the universe the one place where a man could make sure of buy tobacco and sardine or could hope for letter for himself and medical attendance for his friend. now she be a little shrink shell of a town without a proper hotel where tourist hurry up from the river to buy complete set of soudan stamp at the post office. 
i go for a purposeless walk from one end of the place to the other and find a crowd of native boy play football on what might have be a parade grind of old day. 
and what school be that. i ask in english of a small eager youth. 
madrissah say he most intelligently which be translate mean just school. 
yes but what school. 
yes madrissah school sir and he tag after to see what else the imbecile want. 
a line of railway track that must have feed big workshop in it time lead me between big room house and office label departmentally with here and there a clerk at work. i be direct and re direct by polite egyptian official. i wish to get at a white officer if possible but there wasn t one about. be turn out of a garden which belong to an authority. hang round the gate of a bungalow with an old establish compound and two white men sit in chair on a verandah. wander down towards the river under the palm tree where the last red light come through. lose myself among rusty boiler and balk of timber. and at last loaf back in the twilight escort by the small boy and an entire brigade of ghost not one of whom i have ever meet before but all of whom i know most intimately. they say it be the evening that use to depress them most too. so they all come back after dinner and bore me company while i go to meet a friend arrive by the night train from khartoum. 
she be an hour late and we spend it the ghost and i in a brick wall tin roof shed warm with the day s heat. a crowd of native laugh and talk somewhere behind in the darkness. we know each other so well by that time that we have finish discuss every conceivable topic of conversation the whereabouts of the mahdi s head for instance work reward despair acknowledgment flat failure all the real motif that have drive u to do anything and all our other longing. so we sit still and let the star move a men must do when they meet this kind of train. 
presently i ask. what be the name of the next station out from here. 
station number one say a ghost. 
and the next. 
station number two and so on to eight i think. 
and wasn t it worth while to name even one of these station from some man live or dead who have something to do with make the line. 
well they didn t anyhow say another ghost. i suppose they didn t think it worth while. why. what do you think. 
i think i reply it be the sort of snobbery that nation go to hades for. 
her headlight show at last an immense distance off. the economic electric be turn up the ghost vanish the dragoman of the various steamer flow forward in beautiful garment to meet their passenger who have book passage in the cook boat and the khartoum train decant a joyous collection of folk all decorate with horn hoof skin hide knife and assagai which they have be buy at omdurman. and when the porter lay hold upon their bristle bundle it be like macneill s zareba without the camel. 
two young men in tarboushes be the only people who have no part in the riot. say one of them to the other. 
hullo. 
say the other. hullo. 
they grunt together for a while. then one pleasantly. 
oh i m sorry for that. i think i be go to have you under me for a bite. then you ll use the rest house there. 
i suppose so say the other. do you happen to know if the roof s on. 
here a woman wail aloud for her dervish spear which have go adrift and i shall never know except from the back page of the soudan almanack what state that rest house there be in. 
the soudan administration by the little i hear be a queer service. it extend itself in silence from the edge of abyssinia to the swamp of the equator at an average pressure of one white man to several thousand square mile. it legislate accord to the custom of the tribe where possible and on the common sense of the moment when there be no precedent. it be recruit almost wholly from the army arm chiefly with binoculars and enjoy a death rate a little low than it own reputation. it be say to be the only service in which a man take leave be explicitly recommend to get out of the country and rest himself that he may return the more fit to his job. a high standard of intelligence be require and lapse be not overlook. for instance one man on leave in london take the wrong train from boulogne and instead of go to paris which of course he have intend find himself at a station call kirk kilissie or adrianople west where he stay for some week. it be a mistake that might have happen to any one on a dark night after a stormy passage but the authority would not believe it and when i leave egypt be busily engage in boil him in hot oil. they be grossly respectable in the soudan now. 
long and long ago before even the philippine be take a friend of mine be reprimand by a british member of parliament first for the sin of blood guiltiness because he be by trade a soldier next for murder because he have fight in great battle and lastly and most important because he and his fellow brave have saddle the british taxpayer with the expense of the soudan. my friend explain that all the soudan have ever cost the british taxpayer be the price of about one dozen of regulation union jack one for each province. that say the m. p. triumphantly be all it will ever be worth. he go on to justify himself and the soudan go on also. to day it ha take it place a one of those accept miracle which be work without heat or headline by men who do the job near their hand and seldom fuss about their reputation. 
but le than sixteen year ago the length and breadth of it be one crazy hell of murder torture and lust where every man who have a sword use it till he meet a strong and become a slave. it be men say who remember it a hysteria of blood and fanaticism. and precisely a an hysterical woman be call to her sens by a dash of cold water so at the battle of omdurman the land be reduce to sanity by apply death on such a scale a the murderer and the torturer at their most unbridle could scarcely have dream. in a day and a night all who have power and authority be wipe out and put under till a the old song say no chief remain to ask after any follower. they have all charge into paradise. the people who be leave look for renew massacre of the sort they have be accustom to and when these do not come they say helplessly. we have nothing. we be nothing. will you sell u into slavery among the egyptian. the men who remember the old day of the reconstruction which deserve an epic of it own say that there be nothing leave to build on not even wreckage. knowledge decency kinship property tide sense of possession have all go. the people be tell they be to sit still and obey order. and they star and fumble like daze crowd after an explosion. bite by bite however they be feed and water and marshal into some sort of order. set to task they never dream to see the end of. and almost by physical force push and haul along the way of mere life. they come to understand presently that they might reap what they have sow and that man even a woman might walk for a day s journey with two goat and a native bedstead and live undespoiled. but they have to be teach kindergarten fashion. 
and little by little a they realise that the new order be sure and that their ancient oppressor be quite dead there return not only cultivator craftsman and artisan but outlandish men of war scar with old wound and the generous dimple that the martini henry bullet use to deal fight men on the lookout for new employ. they would hang about first on one leg then on the other proud or uneasily friendly till some white officer circulate near by. and at his fourth or fifth pass brown and white have approve each other by eye the talk so men say would run something like this. 
officer. with air of sudden discovery. oh you by the hut there what be your business. 
warrior. at attention complicate by attempt to salute. i be so and so son of so and so from such and such a place. 
officer. i hear. and. 
warrior. repeat salute. and a fight man also. 
officer. impersonally to horizon. but they all say that nowadays. 
warrior. very loudly. but there be a man in one of your battalion who can testify to it. he be the grandson of my father s uncle. 
officer. confidentially to his boot. hell be quite full of such grandson of just such father s uncle. and how do i know if private so and so speak the truth about his family. make to go. 
warrior. swiftly remove necessary garment. perhaps. but these don t lie. look. i get this ten twelve year ago when i be quite a lad close to the old border yes halfa. it be a true snide bullet. feel it. this little one on the leg i get at the big fight that finish it all last year. but i be not lame. violent leg exercise. not in the least lame. see. i run. i jump. i kick. praise be allah. 
officer. praise be allah. and then. 
warrior. coquettishly. then i shoot. i be not a common spear man. lapse into english. yeh dam goo shoot. pump lever of imaginary martini. 
officer. unmoved. i see. and then. 
warrior. indignantly. i be come here after many day march. change to childlike wheedle. be all the regiment full. 
at this point the relative in uniform generally discover himself and if the officer like the cut of his jib another old mahdi s man would be add to the machine that make itself a it roll along. they deal with situation in those day by the unclouded light of reason and a certain high and holy audacity. 
there be a tale of two sheikh shortly after the reconstruction begin. one of them abdullah of the river prudent and the son of a slave woman profess loyalty to the english very early in the day and use that loyalty a a cloak to lift camel from another sheikh farid of the desert still at war with the english but a perfect gentleman which abdullah be not. naturally farid raid back on abdullah s kine abdullah complain to the authority and the border ferment. to farid in his desert camp with a clutch of abdullah s cattle round him enter alone and unarm the officer responsible for the peace of those part. after compliment for they have have dealing with each other before. you ve be drive abdullah s stock again say the englishman. 
i should think i have. be the hot answer. he lift my camel and scuttle back into your territory where he know i can t follow him for the life. and when i try to get a bite of my own back he whine to you. he s a cad an utter cad. 
at any rate he be loyal. if you d only come in and be loyal too you d both be on the same foot and then if he steal from you he d catch it. 
he d never dare to steal except under your protection. give him what he d have get in the mahdi s time a first class flog. you know he deserve it. 
i m afraid that isn t allow. you have to let me shift all those bullock of his back again. 
and if i don t. 
then i shall have to ride back and collect all my men and begin war against you. 
but what prevent my cut your throat where you sit. 
for one thing you aren t abdullah and. 
there. you confess he s a cad. 
and for another the government would only send another officer who didn t understand your way and then there would be war and no one would score except abdullah. he d steal your camel and get credit for it. 
so he would the scoundrel. this be a hard world for honest men. now you admit abdullah be a cad. listen to me and i ll tell you a few more thing about him. he be etc. etc. he be etc. etc. 
you re perfectly right sheikh but don t you see i can t tell him what i think of him so long a he s loyal and you re out against u. now if you come in i promise you that i ll give abdullah a tell off yes in your presence that will do you good to listen to. 
no. i win t come in. but i tell you what i will do. i ll accompany you to morrow a your guest understand to your camp. then you send for abdullah and if i judge that his fat face ha be sufficiently blacken in my presence i ll think about come in late. 
so it be arrange and they sleep out the rest of the night side by side and in the morning they gather up and return all abdullah s cattle and in the even in farid s presence abdullah get the tongue lash of his wicked old life and farid of the desert laugh and come in. and they all live happy ever afterwards. 
somewhere or other in the near province the old heady game must be go on still but the soudan proper ha settle to civilisation of the brick bungalow and bougainvillea sort and there be a huge technical college where the young men be train to become fitter surveyor draftsman and telegraph employee at fabulous wage. in due time they will forget how warily their father have to walk in the mahdi s time to secure even half a bellyful. then a ha happen elsewhere. they will honestly believe that they themselves originally create and since then have uphold the easy life into which they be buy at so heavy a price. then the demand will go up for extension of local government soudan for the soudanese and so on till the whole cycle ha to be retrodden. it be a hard law but an old one rome die learn it a our western civilisation may die that if you give any man anything that he ha not painfully earn for himself you infallibly make him or his descendant your devote enemy. 
the end. 
