the work of rudyard kipling one volume edition. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
volume i departmental ditty and other verse. 
departmental ditty. 
prelude general summary army headquarter study of an elevation in indian ink a legend of the foreign office the story of uriah the post that fit public waste delilah what happen pink domino the man who could write municipal a code of moral the last department. 
other verse recessional the vampire to the unknown goddess the rubaiyat of omar kal vin la nuit blanche my rival the lover litany a ballad of burial divide destiny the masque of plenty the mare s nest possibility christmas in india pagett m. p. the song of the woman a ballad of jakko hill the plea of the simla dancer ballad of fisher s board house a the bell clink an old song certain maxim of hafiz the grave of the hundred head the moon of other day the overland mail what the people say the undertaker s horse the fall of jock gillespie arithmetic on the frontier one viceroy resign the betroth a tale of two city. 
volume ii ballad and barrack room ballad. 
ballad the ballad of east and west the last suttee the ballad of the king s mercy the ballad of the king s jest the ballad of boh da thone the lament of the border cattle thief the rhyme of the three captain the ballad of the clampherdown the ballad of the bolivar the english flag clear an imperial rescript tomlinson danny deever tommy fuzzy wuzzv soldier soldier screw gun gunga din oonts loot snarleyow the widow at windsor belt the young british soldier mandalay troopin ford o kabul river route marchin. 
volume iii the phantom rickshaw and other ghost story. 
the phantom rickshaw my own true ghost story the strange ride of morrowbie juke the man who would be king the fine story in the world. 
volume iv under the deodar. 
the education of otis yeere at the pit s mouth a wayside comedy the hill of illusion a second rate woman only a subaltern in the matter of a private the enlightenment of pagett. m. p. 
volume v plain tale from the hill. 
lispeth three and an extra throw away miss youghal s sais yoke with an unbeliever false dawn the rescue of pluffles cupid s arrow his chance in life watch of the night the other man consequence the conversion of aurellan mcgoggin a germ destroyer kidnap the arrest of lieutenant golightly in the house of suddhoo his wed wife the break link handicap beyond the pale in error a bank fraud tod amendment in the pride of his youth pig the rout of the white hussar the bronckhorst divorce case venus annodomini the bisara of pooree a friend s friend the gate of the hundred sorrow the story of muhammad din on the strength of a liken wressley of the foreign office by word of mouth to be file for reference the last relief bitter neat haunt subaltern. 
volume vi the light that fail. 
volume vii the story of the gadsbys. 
preface poor dear mamma the world without the tent of kedar with any amazement the garden of eden fatima the valley of the shadow the swell of jordan. 
volume viii from mine own people. 
bimi namgay doola the recrudescence of imray moti guj mutineer. 
volume i departmental ditty and other verse. 
i have eat your bread and salt i have drink your water and wine the death ye die i have watch beside and the life that ye lead be mine. 
be there aught that i do not share in vigil or toil or ease one joy or woe that i do not know dear heart across the sea. 
i have write the tale of our life for a shelter people s mirth in jest guise but ye be wise and ye know what the jest be worth. 
general summary. 
we be very slightly change from the semi ape who range india s prehistoric clay. whoso draw the long bow run his brother down you know a we run men down today. 
dowb the first of all his race meet the mammoth face to face on the lake or in the cave steal the steady canoe eat the quarry others slew die and take the fine grave. 
when they scratch the reindeer bone someone make the sketch his own filch it from the artist then even in those early day win a simple viceroy s praise through the toil of other men. 
ere they hew the sphinx s visage favoritism govern kissage even a it doe in this age. 
who shall doubt the secret hide under cheops pyramid be that the contractor do cheops out of several million. or that joseph s sudden rise to comptroller of supply be a fraud of monstrous size on king pharoah s swart civilian. 
thus the artless song i sing do not deal with anything new or never say before. 
a it be in the begin be today official sin and shall be forevermore. 
army headquarter. 
old be the song that i sing old a my unpaid bill old a the chicken that kitmutgars bring men at dak bungalow old a the hill. 
ahasuerus jenkins of the operatic own be dower with a tenor voice of super santley tone. 
his view on equitation be perhaps a trifle queer. he have no seat worth mention but oh. he have an ear. 
he club his wretched company a dozen time a day he use to quit his charger in a parabolic way his method of salute be the joy of all beholder but ahasuerus jenkins have a head upon his shoulder. 
he take two month to simla when the year be at the spring and underneath the deodar eternally do sing. 
he warble like a bulbul but particularly at cornelia agrippina who be musical and fat. 
she control a humble husband who in turn control a dept. where cornelia agrippina s human sing bird be keep from april to october on a plump retain fee supply of course per mensem by the indian treasury. 
cornelia use to sing with him and jenkins use to play. he praise unblushingly her note for he be false a they. so when the wind of april turn the bud rose brown cornelia tell her husband. tom you mustn t send him down. 
they hale him from his regiment which didn t much regret him. they find for him an office stool and on that stool they set him to play with map and catalogue three idle hour a day and draw his plump retain fee which mean his double pay. 
now ever after dinner when the coffeecups be bring ahasuerus waileth o er the grand pianoforte. and thank to fair cornelia his fame hath waxen great and ahasuerus jenkins be a power in the state. 
study of an elevation in indian ink. 
this ditty be a string of lie. but how the deuce do gubbins rise. 
potiphar gubbins c. e. stand at the top of the tree. and i muse in my bed on the reason that lead to the hoist of potiphar g. 
potiphar gubbins c. e. be seven year junior to me. each bridge that he make he either buckle or break and his work be a rough a he. 
potiphar gubbins c. e. be coarse a a chimpanzee. and i can t understand why you give him your hand lovely mehitabel lee. 
potiphar gubbins c. e. be dear to the power that be. for they bow and they smile in an affable style which be seldom accord to me. 
potiphar gubbins c. e. be certain a certain can be of a highly pay post which be claim by a host of senior include me. 
careless and lazy be he greatly inferior to me. 
what be the spell that you manage so well commonplace potiphar g. 
lovely mehitabel lee let me inquire of thee should i have riz to what potiphar be hadst thou be mat to me. 
a legend. 
this be the reason why rustum beg rajah of kolazai drinketh the simpkin and brandy peg maketh the money to fly vexeth a government tender and kind also but this be a detail blind. 
rustum beg of kolazai slightly backward native state lust for a c. s. i. so begin to sanitate. build a jail and hospital nearly build a city drain till his faithful subject all think their ruler be insane. 
strange departure make he then yea department strange still half a dozen englishman help the rajah with a will talk of noble aim and high hint of a future fine for the state of kolazai on a strictly western line. 
rajah rustum hold his peace. lower octroi due a half. organize a state police. purify the. civil staff. settle ce and tax afresh in a very liberal way. cut temptation of the flesh also cut the bukhshi s pay. 
rouse his secretariat to a fine mahratta fury by a hookum hint at supervision of dasturi. turn the state of kolazai very nearly upside down. when the end of may be nigh wait his achievement crown. 
when the birthday honor come sad to state and sad to see stand against the rajah s name nothing more than c. i. e. * * * * *. 
thing be lively for a week in the state of kolazai. even now the people speak of that time regretfully. 
how he disendowed the jail stop at once the city drain. turn to beauty fair and frail get his sens back again. double tax ce all. clear away each new build thana. turn the two lakh hospital into a superb zenana. 
heap upon the bukhshi sahib wealth and honor manifold. clothe himself in eastern garb squeeze his people a of old. 
happy happy kolazai. never more will rustum beg play to catch the viceroy s eye. he prefer the simpkin peg. 
the story of uriah. 
now there be two men in one city. the one rich and the other poor. 
jack barrett go to quetta because they tell him to. he leave his wife at simla on three fourth his monthly screw. jack barrett die at quetta ere the next month s pay he draw. 
jack barrett go to quetta. he didn t understand the reason of his transfer from the pleasant mountain land. the season be september and it kill him out of hand. 
jack barrett go to quetta and there give up the ghost attempt two men s duty in that very healthy post. and mr. barrett mourn for him five lively month at most. 
jack barrett s bone at quetta enjoy profound repose. but i shouldn t be astonish if now his spirit know the reason of his transfer from the himalayan snow. 
and when the last great bugle call adown the hurnal throb when the last grim joke be enter in the big black book of job and quetta graveyard give again their victim to the air i shouldn t like to be the man who send jack barrett there. 
the post that fit. 
though tangle and twist the course of true love this ditty explain no tangle s so tangle it cannot improve if the lover ha brain. 
ere the steamer bore him eastward sleary be engage to marry an attractive girl at tunbridge whom he call my little carrie. 
sleary s pay be very modest. sleary be the other way. who can cook a two plate dinner on eight poor rupee a day. 
long he ponder o er the question in his scantly furnish quarter then propose to minnie boffkin eldest of judge boffkin s daughter. 
certainly an impecunious subaltern be not a catch but the boffkins know that minnie mightn t make another match. 
so they recognise the business and to fee and clothe the bride get him make a something something somewhere on the bombay side. 
anyhow the billet carry pay enough for him to marry a the artless sleary put it. just the thing for me and carrie. 
do he therefore jilt miss boffkin impulse of a base mind. no. he start epileptic fit of an appal kind. 
[of his modus operandi only this much i could gather. pear s shave stick will give you little taste and lot of lather. ]. 
frequently in public place his affliction use to smite sleary with distress vigour always in the boffkins sight. 
ere a week be over minnie weepingly return his ring tell him his unhappy weakness stop all think of marry. 
sleary bore the information with a chasten holy joy epileptic fit don t matter in political employ wire three short word to carrie take his ticket pack his kit bid farewell to minnie boffkin in one last long linger fit. 
four week late carrie sleary read and laugh until she weep mr. boffkin s warn letter on the wretched epilept. 
year by year in pious patience vengeful mr. boffkin sit wait for the sleary baby to develop sleary s fit. 
public waste. 
walpole talk of a man and his price. list to a ditty queer the sale of a deputy act vice resident engineer buy like a bullock hoof and hide by the little tin god on the mountain side. 
by the law of the family circle ti write in letter of brass that only a colonel from chatham can manage the railway of state because of the gold on his breeks and the subject wherein he must pas. because in all matter that deal not with railway his knowledge be great. 
now exeter battleby tring have labour from boyhood to eld on the line of the east and the west and eke of the north and south. many line have he build and survey important the post which he hold. and the lord of the iron horse be dumb when he open his mouth. 
black a the raven his garb and his heresy jettier still hint that railway require lifetime of study and knowledge never clank sword by his side vauban he know not nor drill nor be his name on the list of the men who have pass through the college. 
wherefore the little tin god harry their little tin soul see he come not from chatham jingle no spur at his heel know that nevertheless be he first on the government roll for the billet of railway instructor to little tin god on wheel. 
letter not seldom they write him have the honour to state it would be good for all men if he be lay on the shelf. much would accrue to his bank book an he consent to wait until the little tin god build him a berth for himself. 
special well pay and exempt from the law of the fifty and five even to ninety and nine these be the term of the pact. thus do the little tin god. long may their highness thrive. silence his mouth with rupee keep their circle intact. 
appoint a colonel from chatham who manage the bhamo state line. the which be one mile and one furlong a guarantee twenty inch gauge. so exeter battleby tring consent his claim to resign and die on four thousand a month in the ninetieth year of his age. 
delilah. 
we have another viceroy now those day be dead and do of delilah aberyswith and deprave ulysses gunne. 
delilah aberyswith be a lady not too young with a perfect taste in dress and a badly bitted tongue with a thirst for information and a great thirst for praise and a little house in simla in the prehistoric day. 
by reason of her marriage to a gentleman in power delilah be acquaint with the gossip of the hour. and many little secret of the half official kind be whisper to delilah and she bore them all in mind. 
she patronize extensively a man ulysses gunne whose mode of earn money be a low and shameful one. he write for certain paper which a everybody know be bad than serve in a shop or scar off the crow. 
he praise her queenly beauty first. and late on he hint at the vastness of her intellect with compliment unstinted. he go with her a rid and his love for her be such that he lend her all his horse and she gall them very much. 
one day they brew a secret of a fine financial sort. it relate to appointment to a man and a report. twas almost worth the keep only seven people know it and gunne rise up to seek the truth and patiently pursue it. 
it be a viceroy s secret but perhaps the wine be red perhaps an age councillor have lose his age head perhaps delilah s eye be bright delilah s whisper sweet the age member tell her what twere treason to repeat. 
ulysses go a rid and they talk of love and flower. ulysses go a call and he call for several hour. ulysses go a waltz and delilah help him dance ulysses let the waltz go and wait for his chance. 
the summer sun be set and the summer air be still the couple go a walk in the shade of summer hill. the wasteful sunset fade out in turkish green and gold ulysses plead softly and that bad delilah tell. 
next morn a startle empire learn the all important news. next week the age councillor be shake in his shoe. next month i meet delilah and she do not show the least hesitation in affirm that ulysses be a beast. * * * * *. 
we have another viceroy now those day be dead and do of delilah aberyswith and most mean ulysses gunne. 
what happen. 
hurree chunder mookerjee pride of bow bazaar owner of a native press barrishter at lar wait on the government with a claim to wear sabre by the bucketful rifle by the pair. 
then the indian government wink a wicked wink say to chunder mookerjee. stick to pen and ink. they be safe implement but if you insist we will let you carry arm wheresoe er you list. 
hurree chunder mookerjee seek the gunsmith and buy the tube of lancaster ballard dean and bland buy a shiny bowie knife buy a town make sword jingle like a carriage horse when he go abroad. 
but the indian government always keen to please also give permission to horrid men like these yar mahommed yusufzai down to kill or steal chimbu singh from bikaneer tantia the bhil. 
killar khan the marri chief jowar singh the sikh nubbee baksh punjabi jat abdul huq rafiq he be a wahabi. last little boh hla oo take advantage of the act take a snide too. 
they be unenlightened men ballard know them not. they procure their sword and gun chiefly on the spot. and the lore of century plus a hundred fight make them slow to disregard one another s right. 
with a unanimity dear to patriot heart all those hairy gentleman out of foreign part say. the good old day be back let u go to war. swagger down the grand trunk road into bow bazaar. 
nubbee baksh punjabi jat find a hide bind flail. chimbu singh from bikaneer oil his tonk jezail. yar mahommed yusufzai spat and grin with glee a he grind the butch knife of the khyberee. 
jowar singh the sikh procure sabre quoit and mace abdul huq wahabi jerk his dagger from it place while amid the jungle grass dance and grin and jabber little boh hla oo and clear his dah blade from the scabbard. 
what become of mookerjee. soothly who can say. yar mahommed only grin in a nasty way jowar singh be reticent chimbu singh be mute. but the belt of all of them simply bulge with loot. 
what become of ballard s gun. afghan black and grubby sell them for their silver weight to the men of pubbi. and the shiny bowie knife and the town make sword be hang in a marri camp just across the border. 
what become of mookerjee. ask mahommed yar prod siva s sacred bull down the bow bazaar. speak to placid nubbee baksh question land and sea ask the indian congressman only don t ask me. 
pink domino. 
they be fool who kiss and tell wisely ha the poet sing. man may hold all sort of post if he ll only hold his tongue. 
jenny and me be engage you see on the eve of the fancy ball. so a kiss or two be nothing to you or any one else at all. 
jenny would go in a domino pretty and pink but warm. while i attend clothe in a splendid austrian uniform. 
now we have arrange through note exchange early that afternoon at number four to waltz no more but to sit in the dusk and spoon. 
i wish you to see that jenny and me have barely exchange our troth. so a kiss or two be strictly due by from and between u both. 
when three be over an eager lover i flee to the gloom outside. and a domino come out also whom i take for my future bride. 
that be to say in a casual way i slip my arm around her. with a kiss or two. which be nothing to you. and ready to kiss i find her. 
she turn her head and the name she say be certainly not my own. but ere i could speak with a smother shriek she flee and leave me alone. 
then jenny come and i saw with shame she d doff her domino. and i have embrace an alien waist but i do not tell her so. 
next morn i know that there be two domino pink and one have cloak the spouse of sir julian house our big political gun. 
sir j. be old and her hair be gold and her eye be a blue cerulean. and the name she say when she turn her head be not in the least like julian. 
the man who could write. 
shun shun the bowl. that fatal facile drink ha ruin many goose who dip their quill in t. bribe murder marry but steer clear of ink save when you write receipt for pay up bill in t. 
there may be silver in the blue black all i know of be the iron and the gall. 
boanerges blitzen servant of the queen be a dismal failure be a might have be. in a luckless moment he discover men rise to high position through a ready pen. boanerges blitzen argue therefore i with the selfsame weapon can attain a high. only he do not posse when he make the trial wicked wit of c lv n irony of l l. 
[men who spar with government need to back their blow something more than ordinary journalistic prose. ]. 
never young civilian s prospect be so bright till an indian paper find that he could write. never young civilian s prospect be so dark when the wretched blitzen write to make his mark. certainly he score it bold and black and firm in that indian paper make his senior squirm quote office scandal write the tactless truth be there ever know a more misguide youth. when the rag he write for praise his plucky game boanerges blitzen felt that this be fame. when the men he write of shake their head and swear boanerges blitzen only write the more. 
pose a young ithuriel resolute and grim till he find promotion didn t come to him. till he find that reprimand weekly be his lot and his many district curiously hot. 
till he find his furlough strangely hard to win boanerges blitzen didn t care to pin. then it seem to dawn on him something wasn t right boanerges blitzen put it down to spite. 
languish in a district desolate and dry. watch the local government yearly pas him by. wonder where the hitch be. call it most unfair. * * * * * * * * *. 
that be seven year ago and he still be there. 
municipal. 
why be my district death rate low. say binks of hezabad. well drain and sewage outfall be my own peculiar fad. 
i learn a lesson once it run thus quoth that most veracious man. 
it be an august even and in snowy garment clothe i pay a round of visit in the line of hezabad. when presently my waler saw and do not like at all a commissariat elephant career down the mall. 
i couldn t see the driver and across my mind it rush that that commissariat elephant have suddenly go musth. 
i didn t care to meet him and i couldn t well get down so i let the waler have it and we head for the town. 
the buggy be a new one and praise dyke it stand the strain till the waler jump a bullock just above the city drain. and the next that i remember be a hurricane of squeal and the creature make toothpick of my five foot patent wheel. 
he seem to want the owner so i flee distraught with fear to the main drain sewage outfall while he snort in my ear reach the four foot drain head safely and in darkness and despair felt the brute s proboscis finger my terror stiffen hair. 
hear it trumpet on my shoulder try to crawl a little high find the main drain sewage outfall block some eight foot up with mire. and for twenty reek minute sir my very marrow freeze while the trunk be feel blindly for a purchase on my toe. 
it miss me by a fraction but my hair be turn grey before they call the driver up and drag the brute away. 
then i seek the city elder and my word be very plain. they flush that four foot drain head and it never choke again. 
you may hold with surface drainage and the sun for garbage cure till you ve be a periwinkle shrink coyly up a sewer. 
i believe in well flush culvert. 
this be why the death rate s small. and if you don t believe me get shikarred yourself. that s all. 
a code of moral. 
l you should think this story true i merely mention i evolve it lately. ti a most unmitigated misstatement. 
now jones have leave his new wed bride to keep his house in order and hie away to the hurrum hill above the afghan border to sit on a rock with a heliograph. but ere he leave he teach his wife the work of the code that set the mile at naught. 
and love have make him very sage a nature make her fair. so cupid and apollo link per heliograph the pair. at dawn across the hurrum hill he flash her counsel wise at e en the die sunset bore her husband s homily. 
he warn her gainst seductive youth in scarlet clothe and gold a much a gainst the blandishment paternal of the old. but keep his grave warning for. hereby the ditty hang. that snowy haired lothario lieutenant general bang. 
twas general bang with aide and staff who tittup on the way when they behold a heliograph tempestuously at play. they think of border rising and of station sack and burn so stop to take the message down and this be what they learn. 
dash dot dot dot dot dash dot dash dot twice. the general swear. 
be ever general officer address a dear before. my love i faith. my duck gadzooks. my darling popsy wop. spirit of great lord wolseley who be on that mountaintop. 
the artless aide de camp be mute. the gild staff be still a dumb with pen up mirth they book that message from the hill. for clear a summer lightning flare the husband s warn run. don t dance or ride with general bang a most immoral man. 
[at dawn across the hurrum hill he flash her counsel wise but howsoever love be blind the world at large hath eye. ] with damnatory dot and dash he heliograph his wife some interest detail of the general s private life. 
the artless aide de camp be mute the shin staff be still and red and ever red grow the general s shave gill. 
and this be what he say at last. his feeling matter not. i think we ve tap a private line. hi. three about there. trot. 
all honour unto bang for ne er do jones thereafter know by word or act official who read off that helio. 
but the tale be on the frontier and from michni to mooltan they know the worthy general a that most immoral man. 
the last department. 
twelve hundred million men be spread about this earth and i and you wonder when you and i be dead what will those luckless million do. 
none whole or clean we cry or free from stain of favour. wait awhile till we attain the last department where nor fraud nor fool nor grade nor greed shall trouble u again. 
fear favour or affection what be these to the grim head who claim our service. i never know a wife or interest yet delay that pukka step miscall decease. 
when leave long overdue none can deny. when idleness of all eternity become our furlough and the marigold our thriftless bullion mint treasury. 
transfer to the eternal settlement each in his strait wood scantled office pen no long brown revers smith s appeal or jones record his minute of dissent. 
and one long since a pillar of the court a mud between the beam thereof be work. and one who write on phosphate for the crop be subject matter of his own report. 
these be the glorious end whereto we pas let him who be go call on him who be. and he shall see the mallie steal the slab for currie grinder and for goat the grass. 
a breath of wind a border bullet s flight a draught of water or a horse s fright the drone of the fat sheristadar cease the punkah stop and fall the night. 
for you or me. do those who live decline the step that offer or their work resign. trust me today s most indispensables five hundred men can take your place or mine. 
other verse. 
recessional. a victorian ode. 
god of our father know of old lord of our far fling battle line beneath whose awful hand we hold dominion over palm and pine. 
lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
the tumult and the shout dy the captain and the king depart still stand thine ancient sacrifice an humble and a contrite heart. 
lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
far call our navy melt away on dune and headland sink the fire lo all our pomp of yesterday be one with nineveh and tyre. 
judge of the nation spare u yet l we forget l we forget. 
if drink with sight of power we loose wild tongue that have not thee in awe such boasting a the gentile use or less breed without the law. 
lord god of host be with u yet l we forget l we forget. 
for heathen heart that put her trust in reek tube and iron shard all valiant dust that build on dust and guard call not thee to guard. 
for frantic boast and foolish word thy mercy on thy people lord. amen. 
the vampire. 
the verse a suggest by the paint by philip burne jones first exhibit at the new gallery in london in. 
a fool there be and he make his prayer. even a you and i. to a rag and a bone and a hank of hair. we call her the woman who do not care. but the fool he call her his lady fair. even a you and i. 
oh the year we waste and the tear we waste and the work of our head and hand belong to the woman who do not know. and now we know that she never could know. and do not understand. 
a fool there be and his good he spend. even a you and i. honor and faith and a sure intent but a fool must follow his natural bend. and it wasn t the least what the lady mean. even a you and i. 
oh the toil we lose and the spoil we lose and the excellent thing we plan belong to the woman who didn t know why. and now we know she never know why. and do not understand. 
the fool we strip to his foolish hide. even a you and i. which she might have see when she throw him aside. but it isn t on record the lady try. so some of him live but the most of him die. even a you and i. 
and it isn t the shame and it isn t the blame that sting like a white hot brand. 
it s come to know that she never know why. see at last she could never know why. and never could understand. 
to the unknown goddess. 
will you conquer my heart with your beauty. my soul go out from afar. shall i fall to your hand a a victim of crafty and cautious shikar. 
have i meet you and pass you already unknowing unthinking and blind. shall i meet you next session at simla o sweet and best of your kind. 
doe the p. and o. bear you to meward or clothe in short frock in the west be you grow the charm that shall capture and torture the heart in my breast. 
will you stay in the plain till september my passion a warm a the day. will you bring me to book on the mountain or where the thermantidotes play. 
when the light of your eye shall make pallid the mean less light i pursue and the charm of your presence shall lure me from love of the gay thirteen two. 
when the peg and the pig skin shall please not. when i buy me calcutta build clothe. when i quit the delight of wild ass. forswear the swear of oath. a a deer to the hand of the hunter when i turn mid the gibe of my friend. when the day of my freedom be number and the life of the bachelor end. 
ah goddess. child spinster or widow a of old on mar hill whey they raise to the god that they know not an altar so i a young pagan have praise the goddess i know not nor worship. yet if half that men tell me be true you will come in the future and therefore these verse be write to you. 
the rupaiyat of omar kal vin. 
[allowing for the difference twixt prose and rhyme exaggeration this ought to reproduce the sense of what sir a tell the nation sometime ago when the government strike from our income two per cent. ]. 
now the new year revive last year s debt the thoughtful fisher casteth wide his net. so i with beg dish and ready tongue assail all men for all that i can get. 
import indeed be go with all their due lo. salt a lever that i dare not use nor may i ask the tiller in bengal surely my kith and kin will not refuse. 
pay and i promise by the dust of spring retrenchment. if my promise can bring comfort ye have them now a thousandfold by allah. i will promise anything. 
indeed indeed retrenchment oft before i swear but do i mean it when i swear. and then and then we wander to the hill and so the little le become much more. 
whether a boileaugunge or babylon i know not how the wretched thing be do the item of receipt grow surely small. the item of expense mount one by one. 
i cannot help it. what have i to do with one and five or four or three or two. let scribe spit blood and sulphur a they please or statesman call me foolish heed not you. 
behold i promise anything you will. behold i greet you with an empty till ah. fellow sinner of your charity seek not the reason of the dearth but fill. 
for if i sin and fell where lie the gain of knowledge. would it ease you of your pain to know the tangle thread of revenue i ravel deep in a hopeless skein. 
who hath not prudence what be it i say of her who paint her eye and tire her head and gibe and mock the people in the street and fawn upon them for her thriftless bread. 
accurse be she of eve s daughter she hath cast off prudence and her end shall be destruction. brother of your bounty some portion of your daily bread to me. 
la nuit blanche. 
a much discern public hold the singer generally sing and print and sell his past for gold. 
whatever i may here disclaim the very clever folk i sing to will most indubitably cling to their pet delusion just the same. 
i have see a the dawn be break and i stagger to my rest tari devi softly shake from the cart road to the crest. 
i have see the spur of jakko heave and quiver swell and sink. be it earthquake or tobacco day of doom or night of drink. 
in the full fresh fragrant morning i observe a camel crawl law of gravitation scorn on the ceiling and the wall. then i watch a fender walk and i hear grey leech sing and a red hot monkey talk do not seem the proper thing. 
then a creature skin and crimson run about the floor and cry and they say that i have the jims on and they dose me with bromide and they lock me in my bedroom me and one wee blood red mouse though i say. to give my head room you have best unroof the house. 
but my word be all unheeded though i tell the grave m. d. that the treatment really need be a dip in open sea that be lap just below me smooth a silver white a snow and it take three men to throw me when i find i could not go. 
half the night i watch the heaven fizz like champagne fly to six and to seven wheel and thunder back again. and when all be peace and order save one planet nail askew much i weep because my warder would not let me set it true. 
after frenzied hour of wait when the earth and sky be dumb peal an awful voice dictate an interminable sum change to a tangle story what she say you say i say till the moon arise in glory and i find her. in my head. 
then a face come blind and weep and it couldn t wipe it eye and it mutter i be keep back the moonlight from the sky. so i pat it for pity but it whistle shrill with wrath and a huge black devil city pour it people on my path. 
so i flee with step uncertain on a thousand year long race but the belly of the curtain keep me always in one place. while the tumult rise and madden to the roar of earth on fire ere it ebb and sink and sadden to a whisper tense a wire. 
in tolerable stillness rise one little little star and it chuckle at my illness and it mock me from afar. and it brother come and eye me call the universe to aid till i lay with naught to hide me neath the scorn of all thing make. 
dun and saffron rob and splendid break the solemn pity day and i know my pain be end and i turn and try to pray. but my speech be shatter wholly and i weep a child weep. 
till the dawn wind softly slowly bring to burn eyelid sleep. 
my rival. 
i go to concert party ball what profit be in these. i sit alone against the wall and strive to look at ease. 
the incense that be mine by right they burn before her shrine. and that s because i m seventeen and she be forty nine. 
i cannot check my girlish blush my color come and go. i redden to my finger tip and sometimes to my nose. 
but she be white where white should be and red where red should shine. the blush that fly at seventeen be fix at forty nine. 
i wish i have her constant cheek. i wish that i could sing all sort of funny little song not quite the proper thing. 
i m very gauche and very shy her joke aren t in my line. and bad of all i m seventeen while she be forty nine. 
the young men come the young men go each pink and white and neat she s old than their mother but they grovel at her foot. 
they walk beside her rickshaw wheel none ever walk by mine. and that s because i m seventeen and she be forty nine. 
she ride with half a dozen men. she call them boy and masher. i trot along the mall alone. my pretty frock and sash don t help to fill my programme card and vainly i repine from ten to two a. m. ah me. would i be forty nine. 
she call me darling pet and dear and sweet retire maid. i m always at the back i know she put me in the shade. 
she introduce me to men cast lover i opine for sixty take to seventeen nineteen to forty nine. 
but even she must old grow and end her dance day she can t go on forever so at concert ball and play. 
one ray of priceless hope i see before my footstep shine. just think that she ll be eighty one when i be forty nine. 
the lover litany. 
eye of grey a sodden quay drive rain and fall tear a the steamer wear to sea in a part storm of cheer. 
sing for faith and hope be high none so true a you and i sing the lover litany. love like ours can never die. 
eye of black a throb keel milky foam to leave and right. whisper converse near the wheel in the brilliant tropic night. 
cross that rule the southern sky. star that sweep and wheel and fly hear the lover litany. love like ours can never die. 
eye of brown a dusty plain split and parch with heat of june fly hoof and tighten rein heart that beat the old old tune. 
side by side the horse fly frame we now the old reply of the lover litany. love like ours can never die. 
eye of blue the simla hill silver with the moonlight hoar. plead of the waltz that thrill dy and echo round benmore. 
mabel officer goodbye glamour wine and witchery on my soul s sincerity love like ours can never die. 
maiden of your charity pity my most luckless state. four time cupid s debtor i bankrupt in quadruplicate. 
yet despite this evil case and a maiden show me grace four and forty time would i sing the lover litany. love like ours can never die. 
a ballad of burial. 
saint @proxed s ever be the church for peace. 
if down here i chance to die solemnly i beg you take all that be leave of i to the hill for old sake s sake pack me very thoroughly in the ice that use to slake peg i drink when i be dry this observe for old sake s sake. 
to the railway station hie there a single ticket take for umballa good train i shall not mind delay or shake. 
i shall rest contentedly spite of clamor cooly make. thus in state and dignity send me up for old sake s sake. 
next the sleepy babu wake book a kalka van for four. few i think will care to make journey with me any more a they use to do of yore. 
i shall need a special break thing i never take before get me one for old sake s sake. 
after that arrangement make. 
no hotel will take me in and a bullock s back would break neath the teak and leaden skin tonga rope be frail and thin or do i a back seat take in a tonga i might spin do your best for old sake s sake. 
after that your work be do. 
recollect a padre must mourn the dear depart one throw the ash and the dust. 
don t go down at once. i trust you will find excuse to snake three day casual on the bust. get your fun for old sake s sake. 
i could never stand the plain. think of blaze june and may think of those september rain yearly till the judgment day. i should never rest in peace i should sweat and lie awake. 
rail me then on my decease to the hill for old sake s sake. 
divide destiny. 
it be an artless bandar and he dance upon a pine and much i wonder how he live and where the beast might dine and many many other thing till o er my morning smoke i sleep the sleep of idleness and dream that bandar speak. 
he say. o man of many clothe. sad crawler on the hill. observe i know not ranken s shop nor ranken s monthly bill. i take no heed to trouser or the coat that you call dress. nor be i plague with little card for little drink at mess. 
i steal the bunnia s grain at morn at noon and eventide. for he be fat and i be spare. i roam the mountain side i follow no man s carriage and no never in my life have i flirt at peliti s with another bandar s wife. 
o man of futile fopperies unnecessary wrap. i own no pony in the hill i drive no tall wheel trap. i buy me not twelve button glove short six eke or ring nor do i waste at hamilton s my wealth on pretty thing. 
i quarrel with my wife at home we never fight abroad. but mr. b. ha grasp the fact i be her only lord. 
i never hear of fever dump nor debt depress my soul. and i pity and despise you. here he poach my breakfast roll. 
his hide be very mangy and his face be very red and ever and anon he scratch with energy his head. his manner be not always nice but how my spirit cry to be an artless bandar loose upon the mountain side. 
so i answer. gentle bandar an inscrutable decree make thee a gleesome fleasome thou and me a wretched me. go. depart in peace my brother to thy home amid the pine. yet forget not once a mortal wish to change his lot for thine. 
the masque of plenty. 
argument. the indian government be mind to discover the economic condition of their land send a committee to inquire into it. and saw that it be good. 
scene. the wooded height of simla. the incarnation of the government of india in the raiment of the angel of plenty sing to pianoforte accompaniment. 
how sweet be the shepherd s sweet life. from the dawn to the even he stray and his tongue shall be fill with praise. 
adagio dim. fill with praise. 
largendo con sp. now this be the position go make an inquisition into their real condition a swiftly a ye may. 
p. ay paint our swarthy billion the rich of vermillions ere two well lead cotillion have dance themselves away. 
turkish patrol a able and intelligent investigator wind down the himalaya. 
what be the state of the nation. what be it occupation. hi. get along get along get along lend u the information. dim. census the byle and the yabu capture a first class babu set him to file gazetteer gazetteer. 
ff. what be the state of the nation etc. etc. 
interlude from nowhere in particular to string and oriental instrument. 
our cattle reel beneath the yoke they bear the earth be iron and the sky be brass and faint with fervour of the flame air the languid hour pas. 
the well be dry beneath the village tree the young wheat wither ere it reach a span and belt of blind sand show cruelly where once the river run. 
pray brother pray but to no earthly king lift up your hand above the blight grain look westward if they please the god shall bring their mercy with the rain. 
look westward bear the blue no brown cloud bank. nay it be write wherefore should we fly. on our own field and by our cattle s flank lie down lie down to die. 
semi chorus. 
by the plume head of king wave high where the tall corn spring o er the dead. 
if they rust or rot we die if they ripen we be feed. 
very mighty be the power of our king. 
triumphal return to simla of the investigator attire after the manner of dionysus lead a pet tiger cub in wreath of rhubarb leaf symbolical of india under medical treatment. 
they sing. 
we have see we have write behold it the proof of our manifold toil. in their host they assemble and tell it the tale of the son of the soil. 
we have say of the sickness where be it. and of death it be far from our ken we have pay a particular visit to the affluent child of men. 
we have tread the mart and the well curb we have stoop to the field and the byre. and the king may the force of hell curb for the people have all they desire. 
castanets and step dance. 
oh the dom and the mag and the thakur and the thag and the nat and the brinjaree and the bunnia and the ryot be a happy and a quiet and a plump a they can be. 
yes the jain and the jat in his stucco front hut and the bound bazugar by the favour of the king be a fat a anything they be they be they be. 
recitative government of india with white satin wing and electro plat harp. 
how beautiful upon the mountain in peace recline thus to be assure that our people be unanimously din. 
and though there be place not so bless a others in natural advantage which after all be only to be expect proud and glad be we to congratulate you upon the work you have thus ably effect. 
cres. how be ewtiful upon the mountain. 
hire band brass only full chorus. 
god bless the squire and all his rich relation who teach u poor people we eat our proper ration we eat our proper ration in spite of inundation malarial exhalation and casual starvation we have we have they say we have we have our proper ration. 
chorus of the crystallise fact. 
before the begin of year there come to the rule of the state men with a pair of shear men with an estimate strachey with muir for leaven lytton with lock that fell ripon fool with heaven and temple rid like h ll. and the bigot take in hand ce and the fall of rain and the measure of sift sand the dealer put in the grain import by land and sea to uttermost decimal worth and registration free in the house of death and of birth. 
and fashion with pen and paper and fashion in black and white with life for a flicker taper and death for a blaze light with the arm and the civil power that his strength might endure for a span from adam s bridge to peshawur the much administer man. 
in the town of the north and the east they gather a unto rule they bid him starve his priest and send his child to school. 
railway and road they work for the need of the soil within. a time to squabble in court a time to bear and to grin. 
and give him peace in his way jail and police to fight justice at length of day and right and might in the right. 
his speech be of mortgage bed on his kine he borrow yet at his heart be his daughter s wed in his eye foreknowledge of debt. 
he eat and hath indigestion he toil and he may not stop. his life be a long draw question between a crop and a crop. 
the mare s nest. 
jane austen beecher stowe de rouse be good beyond all earthly need. but on the other hand her spouse be very very bad indeed. 
he smoke cigar call church slow and race but this she do not know. 
for belial machiavelli keep the little fact a secret and though o er his minor sin she weep jane austen do not understand that lilly thirteen two and bay absorb one half her husband s pay. 
she be so good she make him bad. some woman be like this i think. he teach her parrot how to curse her assam monkey how to drink. 
he vex her righteous soul until she go up and he go down hill. 
then come the crisis strange to say which turn a good wife to a good. 
a telegraphic peon one day bring her now have it be a letter for belial machiavelli i know jane would just have let it lie. 
but twas a telegram instead mark urgent and her duty plain to open it. jane austen read. your lilly s get a cough again. can t understand why she be keep at your expense. jane austen weep. 
it be a misdirect wire. her husband be at shaitanpore. she spread her anger hot a fire through six thin foreign sheet or more. 
send off that letter write another to her solicitor and mother. 
then belial machiavelli saw her error and i trust his own wire to the minion of the law and travel wifeward not alone. 
for lilly thirteen two and bay come in a horse box all the way. 
there be a scene a weep or two with many kiss. austen jane ride lilly all the season through and never open wire again. 
she race now with belial. this be very sad but so it be. 
possibility. 
ay lay him neath the simla pine a fortnight fully to be miss behold we lose our fourth at whist a chair be vacant where we dine. 
his place forget him. other men have buy his pony gun and trap. his fortune be the great perhaps and that cool rest house down the glen. 
whence he shall hear a spirit may our mundane revel on the height shall watch each flash rickshaw light sweep on to dinner dance and play. 
benmore shall woo him to the ball with light room and bray band. and he shall hear and understand dream face good than u all. 
for think you a the vapour flee across sanjaolie after rain his soul may climb the hill again to each field of victory. 
unseen who woman hold so dear the strong man s yearn to his kind shall shake at most the window blind or dull awhile the card room s cheer. 
@in his own place of power unknown his light o love another s flame and he an alien and alone. 
yet may he meet with many a friend shrewd shadow linger long unseen among u when god save the queen show even extra have an end. 
and when we leave the heat room and when at four the light expire the crew shall gather round the fire and mock our laughter in the gloom. 
talk a we talk and they ere death flirt wanly dance in ghostly wise with ghost of tune for melody and vanish at the morning s breath. 
christmas in india. 
dim dawn behind the tamarisk the sky be saffron yellow a the woman in the village grind the corn and the parrot seek the riverside each call to his fellow that the day the star easter day be bear. 
oh the white dust on the highway. oh the stench in the byway. oh the clammy fog that hover o er the earth. and at home they re make merry neath the white and scarlet berry what part have india s exile in their mirth. 
full day behind the tamarisk the sky be blue and star a the cattle crawl afield beneath the yoke and they bear one o er the field path who be past all hope or care to the ghat below the curl wreath of smoke. 
call on rama go slowly a ye bear a brother lowly call on rama he may hear perhaps your voice. with our hymn book and our psalter we appeal to other altar and today we bid good christian men rejoice. 
high noon behind the tamarisk the sun be hot above u a at home the christmas day be break wan. they will drink our health at dinner those who tell u how they love u and forget u till another year be go. 
oh the toil that know no break. oh the heimweh ceaseless ache. oh the black divide sea and alien plain. youth be cheap wherefore we sell it. gold be good we hop to hold it and today we know the fulness of our gain. 
grey dusk behind the tamarisk the parrot fly together a the sun be sink slowly over home. and his last ray seem to mock u shackle in a lifelong tether. that drag u back howe er so far we roam. 
hard her service poor her payment she be ancient tattered raiment india she the grim stepmother of our kind. if a year of life be lend her if her temple s shrine we enter the door be shut we may not look behind. 
black night behind the tamarisk the owl begin their chorus a the conch from the temple scream and bray. with the fruitless year behind u and the hopeless year before u let u honor o my brother christmas day. 
call a truce then to our labor let u feast with friend and neighbor and be merry a the custom of our caste. for if faint and force the laughter and if sadness follow after we be rich by one mock christmas past. 
pagett m. p. 
the toad beneath the harrow know exactly where each tooth point go. the butterfly upon the road preach contentment to that toad. 
pagett m. p. be a liar and a fluent liar therewith he speak of the heat of india a the asian solar myth. come on a four month visit to study the east in november and i get him to sign an agreement vow to stay till september. 
march come in with the koil. pagett be cool and gay call me a bloat brahmin talk of my princely pay. march go out with the rose. where be your heat. say he. come say i to pagett skittle. say pagett m. p. 
april begin with the punkah cooly and prickly heat pagett be dear to mosquito sandfly find him a treat. he grow speckle and mumpy hammer i grieve to say aryan brother who fan him in an illiberal way. 
may set in with a dust storm pagett go down with the sun. all the delight of the season tickle him one by one. imprimis ten day s liver due to his drink beer. late a dose of fever slight but he call it severe. 
dysent ry touch him in june after the chota bursat lower his portly person make him yearn to depart. he didn t call me a brahmin or bloat or overpay but seem to think it a wonder that any one stay. 
july be a trifle unhealthy pagett be ill with fear. call it the cholera morbus hint that life be dear. he babble of eastern exile and mention his home with tear. but i haven t see my child for close upon seven year. 
we reach a hundred and twenty once in the court at noon. i ve mention pagett be portly. pagett go off in a swoon. that be an end to the business. pagett the perjure flee with a practical work knowledge of solar myth in his head. 
and i laugh a i drive from the station but the mirth die out on my lip a i think of the fool like pagett who write of their eastern trip and the sneer of the travel idiot who duly misgovern the land and i pray to the lord to deliver another one into my hand. 
the song of the woman. 
how shall she know the worship we would do her. the wall be high and she be very far. how shall the woman s message reach unto her above the tumult of the pack bazaar. free wind of march against the lattice blow bear thou our thank l she depart unknowing. 
go forth across the field we may not roam in go forth beyond the tree that rim the city to whatsoe er fair place she hath her home in who dower u with wealth of love and pity. out of our shadow pas and seek her sing i have no gift but love alone for bring. 
say that we be a feeble folk who greet her but old in grief and very wise in tear. say that we be desolate entreat her that she forget u not in after year. for we have see the light and it be grievous to dim that dawn if our lady leave u. 
by life that ebb with none to stanch the fail by love s sad harvest garner in the spring when love in ignorance weep unavailing o er young bud dead before their blossom. by all the grey owl watch the pale moon view in past grim year declare our gratitude. 
by hand uplift to the god that hear not by fit that find no favor in their sight by face bend above the babe that stir not by nameless horror of the stifle night. by ill foredone by peace her toil discover bid earth be good beneath and heaven above her. 
if she have send her servant in our pain if she have fight with death and dull his sword. if she have give back our sick again. and to the breast the wake lip restore be it a little thing that she ha work. then life and death and motherhood be nought. 
go forth o wind our message on thy wing and they shall hear thee pas and bid thee speed in reed roof hut or white wall home of king who have be helpen by her in their need. 
all spring shall give thee fragrance and the wheat shall be a tasselled floorcloth to thy foot. 
haste for our heart be with thee take no rest. loud voice ambassador from sea to sea proclaim the bless manifold confess. of those in darkness by her hand set free. 
then very softly to her presence move and whisper. lady lo they know and love. 
a ballad of jakko hill. 
one moment bid the horse wait since tiffin be not lay till three below the upward path and straight you climb a year ago with me. 
love come upon u suddenly and loose an idle hour to kill a headless armless armory that smite u both on jakko hill. 
ah heaven. we would wait and wait through time and to eternity. ah heaven. we could conquer fate with more than godlike constancy i cut the date upon a tree here stand the clumsy figure still. a. d. damp with the mist of jakko hill. 
what come of high resolve and great and until death fidelity. whose horse be wait at your gate. whose rickshaw wheel ride over me. no saint s i swear. and let me see tonight what name your programme fill we drift asunder merrily a drift the mist on jakko hill. 
l envoi. 
princess behold our ancient state ha clean depart. and we see twas idleness we take for fate that bind light bond on you and me. 
amen. here end the comedy where it begin in all good will. since love and leave together flee a drive mist on jakko hill. 
the plea of the simla dancer. 
too late ala. the song to remedy the wrong. the room be take from u sweep and garnish for their fate. but these tear besprinkle page shall attest to future age that we cry against the crime of it too late ala. too late. 
what have we ever do to bear this grudge. be there no room save only in benmore for docket duftar and for office drudge that you usurp our smooth dance floor. must babu do their work on polish teak. be ball room fit for the ink you spill. be there no other cheap house to seek. you might have leave them all at strawberry hill. 
we never harm you. innocent our guise dainty our shin foot our voice low. and we revolve to diver melody and we be happy but a year ago. 
tonight the moon that watch our lightsome wile that beam upon u through the deodar be wan with gaze on official file and desecrate desk disgust the star. 
nay. by the memory of tuneful night nay. by the witchery of fly foot nay. by the glamour of foredone delight by all thing merry musical and meet by wine that sparkle and by sparkle eye by wail waltz by reckless galop s strain by dim veranda and by soft reply give u our ravish ball room back again. 
or hearken to the curse we lay on you. the ghost of waltz shall perplex your brain and murmur of past merriment pursue your wildered clerk that they indite in vain. and when you count your poor provincial million the only figure that your pen shall frame shall be the figure of dear dear cotillion dance out in tumult long before you come. 
yea. see saw shall upset your estimate dream face shall your heavy head bemuse because your hand unheeding desecrate our temple. fit for high worthy use. and all the long veranda eloquent with echo of a score of simla year shall plague you with unbidden sentiment babble of kiss laughter love and tear. 
so shall you mazed amid old memory stand so shall you toil and shall accomplish nought and ever in your ear a phantom band shall blare away the staid official think. 
wherefore and ere this awful curse he speak cast out your swarthy sacrilegious train and give ere dance cease and heart be break give u our ravish ball room back again. 
the ballad of fisher s board house. 
that night when through the moor chain the wide eye corpse roll free to blunder down by garden reach and rot at kedgeree the tale the hughli tell the shoal the lean shoal tell to me. 
t be fultah fisher s board house where sailor men reside and there be men of all the port from mississip to clyde and regally they spat and smoke and fearsomely they lie. 
they lie about the purple sea that give them scanty bread they lie about the earth beneath the heaven overhead for they have look too often on black rum when that be red. 
they tell their tale of wreck and wrong of shame and lust and fraud they back their tough statement with the brimstone of the lord and crackle oath go to and fro across the fist bang board. 
and there be han the blue eye dane bull throated bare of arm who carry on his hairy chest the maid ultruda s charm the little silver crucifix that keep a man from harm. 
and there be jake without the ear and pamba the malay and carboy gin the guinea cook and luz from vigo bay and honest jack who sell them slop and harvest their pay. 
and there be salem hardieker a lean bostonian he rus german english halfbreed finn yank dane and portuguee at fultah fisher s board house they rest from the sea. 
now anne of austria share their drink collinga know her fame from tarnau in galicia to juan bazaar she come to eat the bread of infamy and take the wage of shame. 
she hold a dozen men to heel rich spoil of war be hers in hose and gown and ring and chain from twenty mariner and by port law that week men call her salem hardieker s. 
but seaman learn what landsman know that neither gift nor gain can hold a wink light o love or fancy s flight restrain when anne of austria roll her eye on han the blue eye dane. 
since life be strife and strife mean knife from howrah to the bay and he may die before the dawn who liquored out the day in fultah fisher s board house we woo while yet we may. 
but cold be han the blue eye dane bull throated bare of arm and laughter shake the chest beneath the maid ultruda s charm the little silver crucifix that keep a man from harm. 
you speak to salem hardieker. you be his girl i know. 
i ship mineselfs tomorrow see und round the skaw we go south down the cattegat by hjelm to besser in saro. 
when love reject turn to hate all ill betide the man. 
you speak to salem hardieker she speak a woman can. a scream a sob he call me name. and then the fray begin. 
an oath from salem hardieker a shriek upon the stair a dance of shadow on the wall a knife thrust unawares and han come down a cattle drop across the break chair. * * * * * *. 
in anne of austria s tremble hand the weary head fell low. i ship mineselfs tomorrow straight for besser in saro. und there ultruda come to me at easter und i go. 
south down the cattegat what s here. there be no light to guide. the mutter cease the spirit pass and anne of austria cry in fultah fisher s board house when han the mighty die. 
thus slew they han the blue eye dane bull throated bare of arm but anne of austria loot first the maid ultruda s charm the little silver crucifix that keep a man from harm. 
a the bell clink. 
a i leave the hall at lumley rise the vision of a comely maid last season worship dumbly watch with fervor from afar. and i wonder idly blindly if the maid would greet me kindly. 
that be all the rest be settle by the clink tonga bar. yea my life and hers be couple by the tonga couple bar. 
for my misty meditation at the second changin station suffer sudden dislocation flee before the tuneless jar of a wagner obbligato scherzo doublehand staccato play on either pony s saddle by the clack tonga bar. 
play with human speech i fancy by the jig jolt bar. 
she be sweet think i last season but twere surely wild unreason such tiny hope to freeze on a be offer by my star when she whisper something sadly. i we feel your go badly. and you let the chance escape you. rap the rattle tonga bar. 
what a chance and what an idiot. click the vicious tonga bar. 
heart of man oh heart of putty. have i go by kakahutti on the old hill road and rutty i have scaped that fatal car. but his fortune each must bide by so i watch the milestone slide by to you call on her tomorrow. fugue with cymbal by the bar. 
you must call on her tomorrow. post horn gallop by the bar. 
yet a further stage my goal on we be whirl down to solon with a double lurch and roll on best foot foremost ganz und gar she be very sweet i hint. if a kiss have be imprint. would ha save a world of trouble. clash the busy tonga bar. 
be accept or reject. bang and clang the tonga bar. 
then a notion wild and dare spite the income tax s par and a hasty think of share le than many income be make me put a question private you can guess what i would drive at. you must work the sum to prove it clank the careless tonga bar. 
simple rule of two will prove it lilt back the tonga bar. 
it be under khyraghaut i muse. suppose the maid be haughty. there be lover rich and rotty. wait some wealthy avatar. answer monitor untiring twixt the pony twain perspire. faint heart never win fair lady creak the strain tonga bar. 
can i tell you ere you ask her. pound slow the tonga bar. 
last the tara devi turn show the light of simla burn light my little lazy yearn to a fierce flame by far. 
a below the mall we jingle through my very heart it tingle do the iterate order of the thresh tonga bar. 
try your luck you can t do good. twang the loosen tonga bar. 
an old song. 
so long a neath the kalka hill the tonga horn shall ring so long a down the solon dip the hard hold pony swing so long a tara devi see the light of simla town so long a pleasure call u up or duty drive u down if you love me a i love you what pair so happy a we two. 
so long a ace take the king or backer take the bet so long a debt lead men to wed or marriage lead to debt so long a little luncheon love and scandal hold their vogue while there be sport at annandale or whisky at jutogh if you love me a i love you what knife can cut our love in two. 
so long a down the rock floor the rave polka spin so long a kitchen lancer spur the madden violin so long a through the whirl smoke we hear the oft tell tale twelve hundred in the lottery and whatshername for sale. if you love me a i love you we ll play the game and win it too. 
so long a lust or lucre tempt straight rider from the course so long a with each drink we pour black brewage of remorse so long a those unload gun we keep beside the bed blow off by obvious accident the lucky owner s head if you love me a i love you what can life kill or death undo. 
so long a death twixt dance and dance chill best and brave blood and drop the reckless rider down the rotten rain soak khud so long a rumour from the north make love wife afraid so long a burma take the boy or typhoid kill the maid if you love me a i love you what knife can cut our love in two. 
by all that light our daily life or work our lifelong woe from boileaugunge to simla down and those grim glade below where heedless of the fly hoof and clamour overhead sleep with the grey langur for guard our very scornful dead if you love me a i love you all earth be servant to u two. 
by docket billetdoux and file by mountain cliff and fir by fan and sword and office box by corset plume and spur by riot revel waltz and war by woman work and bill by all the life that fizz in the everlasting hill if you love me a i love you what pair so happy a we two. 
certain maxim of hafiz. 
i. if it be pleasant to look on stall in the pack serai doe not the young man try it temper and pace ere he buy. if she be pleasant to look on what doe the young man say. lo. she be pleasant to look on give her to me today. 
ii. yea though a kafir die to him be remit jehannum if he borrow in life from a native at sixty per cent. per annum. 
iii. blister we not for bursati. so when the heart be vex the pain of one maiden s refusal be drown in the pain of the next. 
iv. the temper of chum the love of your wife and a new piano s tune which of the three will you trust at the end of an indian june. 
v. who be the ruler of ind to whom shall we bow the knee. make your peace with the woman and men will make you l. g. 
vi. doe the woodpecker flit round the young ferash. doe grass clothe a new build wall. be she under thirty the woman who hold a boy in her thrall. 
vii. if she grow suddenly gracious reflect. be it all for thee. the black buck be stalk through the bullock and man through jealousy. 
viii. seek not for favor of woman. so shall you find it indeed. doe not the boar break cover just when you re light a weed. 
ix. if he play be young and unskilful for shekel of silver and gold take his money my son praise allah. the kid be ordain to be sell. 
x. with a weed among men or horse verily this be the best that you work him in office or dog cart lightly but give him no rest. 
xi. pleasant the snaffle of courtship improve the manner and carriage. but the colt who be wise will abstain from the terrible thorn bite of marriage. 
xii. a the thriftless gold of the babul so be the gold that we spend on a derby sweep or our neighbor s wife or the horse that we buy from a friend. 
xiii. the way of man with a maid be strange yet simple and tame to the way of a man with a horse when sell or race that same. 
xiv. in public her face turneth to thee and pleasant her smile when ye meet. it be ill. the cold rock of el gidar smile thus on the wave at their foot. 
in public her face be avert with anger. she nameth thy name. it be well. be there ever a loser content with the loss of the game. 
xv. if she have speak a word remember thy lip be seal and the brand of the dog be upon him by whom be the secret reveal. 
if she have write a letter delay not an instant but burn it. tear it to piece o fool and the wind to her mate shall return it. 
if there be trouble to herward and a lie of the black can clear lie while thy lip can move or a man be alive to hear. xvi. my son if a maiden deny thee and scufflingly bid thee give o er yet lip meet with lip at the last word get out. she ha be there before. they be peck on the ear and the chin and the nose who be lack in lore. 
xvii. if we fall in the race though we win the hoof slide be scar on the course. though allah and earth pardon sin remaineth forever remorse. 
xviii. by all i be misunderstand. if the matron shall say or the maid. ala. i do not understand my son be thou nowise afraid. 
in vain in the sight of the bird be the net of the fowler display. 
xix. my son if i hafiz the father take hold of thy knee in my pain demand thy name on stamp paper one day or one hour refrain. 
be the link of thy fetter so light that thou cravest another man s chain. 
the grave of the hundred head. 
there s a widow in sleepy chester who weep for her only son. there s a grave on the pabeng river a grave that the burmans shun and there s subadar prag tewarri who tell how the work be do. 
a snide squibbed in the jungle somebody laugh and flee and the men of the first shikaris pick up their subaltern dead with a big blue mark in his forehead and the back blow out of his head. 
subadar prag tewarri jemadar hira lal take command of the party twenty rifle in all march them down to the river a the day be begin to fall. 
they bury the boy by the river a blanket over his face they weep for their dead lieutenant the men of an alien race they make a samadh in his honor a mark for his rest place. 
for they swear by the holy water they swear by the salt they eat that the soul of lieutenant eshmitt sahib should go to his god in state. with fifty file of burman to open him heaven s gate. 
the men of the first shikaris march till the break of day till they come to the rebel village the village of pabengmay a jingal cover the clear calthrops hamper the way. 
subadar prag tewarri bid them load with ball halt a dozen rifle under the village wall. send out a flank party with jemadar hira lal. 
the men of the first shikaris shout and smite and slew turn the grin jingal on to the howl crew. the jemadar s flank party butcher the folk who fly. 
long be the morn of slaughter long be the list of slay five score head be take five score head and twain. and the men of the first shikaris go back to their grave again. 
each man bear a basket red a his palm that day red a the blaze village the village of pabengmay and the drip drip drip from the basket redden the grass by the way. 
they make a pile of their trophy high a a tall man s chin head upon head distort set in a sightless grin anger and pain and terror stamp on the smoke scorch skin. 
subadar prag tewarri put the head of the boh on the top of the mound of triumph the head of his son below with the sword and the peacock banner that the world might behold and know. 
thus the samadh be perfect thus be the lesson plain of the wrath of the first shikaris the price of a white man slay. and the men of the first shikaris go back into camp again. 
then a silence come to the river a hush fell over the shore and bohs that be brave depart and sniders squibbed no more. for the burmans say that a kullah s head must be pay for with head five score. 
there s a widow in sleepy chester who weep for her only son. there s a grave on the pabeng river a grave that the burmans shun and there s subadar prag tewarri who tell how the work be do. 
the moon of other day. 
beneath the deep veranda s shade when bat begin to fly i sit me down and watch ala. another even die. 
blood red behind the sere ferash she rise through the haze. saint diana. can that be the moon of other day. 
ah. shade of little kitty smith sweet saint of kensington. say be it ever thus at home the moon of august shine when arm in arm we wander long through putney s even haze and hammersmith be heaven beneath the moon of other day. 
but wandle s stream be sutlej now and putney s even haze the dust that half a hundred kine before my window raise. unkempt unclean athwart the mist the seethe city loom in place of putney s golden gorse the sickly babul bloom. 
glare down old hecate through the dust and bid the pie dog yell draw from the drain it typhoid germ from each bazaar it smell. yea suck the fever from the tank and sap my strength therewith. thank heaven you show a smile face to little kitty smith. 
the overland mail. foot service to the hill. 
in the name of the empress of india make way o lord of the jungle wherever you roam. the wood be astir at the close of the day we exile be wait for letter from home. let the robber retreat let the tiger turn tail in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
with a jingle of bell a the dusk gather in he turn to the foot path that head up the hill the bag on his back and a cloth round his chin and tuck in his waist belt the post office bill. despatch on this date a receive by the rail per runner two bag of the overland mail. 
be the torrent in spate. he must ford it or swim. ha the rain wreck the road. he must climb by the cliff. doe the tempest cry halt. what be tempest to him. the service admit not a but or and if. while the breath s in his mouth he must bear without fail in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
from aloe to rise oak from rise oak to fir from level to upland from upland to crest from rice field to rock ridge from rock ridge to spur fly the soft sandalled foot strain the brawny brown chest. from rail to ravine to the peak from the vale up up through the night go the overland mail. 
there s a speck on the hillside a dot on the road a jingle of bell on the foot path below there s a scuffle above in the monkey s abide the world be awake and the cloud be aglow. 
for the great sun himself must attend to the hail. in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
what the people say june st. 
by the well where the bullock go silent and blind and slow by the field where the young corn dy in the face of the sultry sky they have hear a the dull earth hear the voice of the wind of an hour the sound of the great queen s voice. my god hath give me year hath grant dominion and power. and i bid you o land rejoice. 
and the ploughman settle the share more deep in the grudge clod. for he saith. the wheat be my care and the rest be the will of god. 
he send the mahratta spear a he sendeth the rain and the mlech in the fat year break the spear in twain. 
and be break in turn. who know how our lord make strife. it be good that the young wheat grow for the bread be life. 
then far and near a the twilight draw hiss up to the scornful dark great serpent blaze of red and blue that rise and fade and rise anew. 
that the land might wonder and mark today be a day of day they say make merry o people all. and the ploughman listen and bow his head. today and tomorrow god s will he say a he trim the lamp on the wall. 
he sendeth u year that be good a he sendeth the dearth he giveth to each man his food or her food to the earth. 
our king and our queen be afar on their people be peace god bringeth the rain to the bar that our cattle increase. 
and the ploughman settle the share more deep in the sun dry clod. mogul mahratta and mlech from the north and white queen over the sea god raiseth them up and driveth them forth a the dust of the ploughshare fly in the breeze. but the wheat and the cattle be all my care and the rest be the will of god. 
the undertaker s horse. 
to tschin shu be condemn to death. how can he drink tea with the executioner. japanese proverb. 
the eldest son bestride him and the pretty daughter ride him and i meet him oft o morning on the course. and there kindle in my bosom an emotion chill and gruesome a i canter past the undertaker s horse. 
neither shy he nor be restive but a hideously suggestive trot professional and placid he affect. and the cadence of his hoof beat to my mind this grim reproof beat. mend your pace my friend i m come. who s the next. 
ah. stud breed of ill omen i have watch the strong go men of pith and might and muscle at your heel down the plantain border highway. heaven send it ne er be my way. in a lacquer box and jetty upon wheel. 
answer sombre beast and dreary where be brown the young the cheery smith the pride of all his friend and half the force. you be at that last dread dak we must cover at a walk bring them back to me o undertaker s horse. 
with your mane unhogged and flow and your curious way of go and that businesslike black crimp of your tail e en with beauty on your back sir pace a a lady s hack sir what wonder when i meet you i turn pale. 
it may be you wait your time beast till i write my last bad rhyme beast quit the sunlight cut the rhyme drop the glass follow after with the others where some dusky heathen smother u with marigold in lieu of english grass. 
or perchance in year to follow i shall watch your plump side hollow see carnifex. go lame. become a corse see old age at last o erpower you and the station pack devour you i shall chuckle then o undertaker s horse. 
but to insult jibe and quest i ve still the hideously suggestive trot that hammer out the unrelenting text and i hear it hard behind me in what place soe er i find me. sure to catch you sooner or late. who s the next. 
the fall of jock gillespie. 
this fell when dinner time be do twixt the first an the second rub that oor mon jock cam hame again to his room ahist the club. 
an syne he laugh an syne he sing an syne we thocht him fou an syne he trump his partner s trick an garred his partner rue. 
then up and spake an elder mon that hold the spade it ace god save the lad. whence come the licht that wimple on his face. 
an jock he snigger an jock he smile an ower the card brim wunk. i m a too fresh fra the stirrup peg may be that i be drink. 
there s whusky brew in galashils an l. l. l. forbye. but never liquor light the lowe that keeks fra oot your eye. 
there s a third o hair on your dress coat breast aboon the heart a wee. oh. that be fra the lang haired skye that slobber ower me. 
oh. lang haired sky be lovin beast an terrier dog be fair but never yet be terrier bear wi ell lang gowden hair. 
there s a smirch o pouther on your breast below the leave lappel. oh. that be fra my auld cigar whenas the stump end fell. 
mon jock ye smoke the trichi coarse for ye be short o cash an best havana couldna leave sae white an pure an ash. 
this nicht ye stop a story braid an stop it wi a curse. last nicht ye tell that tale yoursel an cap it wi a bad. 
oh. we re no fou. oh. we re no fou. but plainly we can ken ye re fallin fallin fra the band o cantie single men. 
an it fell when sirris shaw be sere an the nichts be lang and mirk in braw new breeks wi a gowden ring oor jock gaed to the kirk. 
arithmetic on the frontier. 
a great and glorious thing it be to learn for seven year or so the lord know what of that and this ere reckon fit to face the foe the fly bullet down the pas that whistle clear. all flesh be grass. 
three hundred pound per annum spend on make brain and body meeter for all the murderous intent comprise in villainous saltpetre. and after ask the yusufzaies what come of all our ology. 
a scrimmage in a border station a canter down some dark defile two thousand pound of education drop to a ten rupee jezail the crammer s boast the squadron s pride shoot like a rabbit in a ride. 
no proposition euclid write no formula the text book know will turn the bullet from your coat or ward the tulwar s downward blow strike hard who care shoot straight who can the odds be on the cheap man. 
one sword knot steal from the camp will pay for all the school expense of any kurrum valley scamp who know no word of mood and tense but be bless with perfect sight pick off our messmate leave and right. 
with home breed horde the hillside teem the troop ship bring u one by one at vast expense of time and steam to slay afridis where they run. 
the captive of our bow and spear be cheap ala. a we be dear. 
the betroth. 
you must choose between me and your cigar. breach of promise case circa. 
open the old cigar box get me a cuba stout for thing be run crossway and maggie and i be out. 
we quarrel about havana we fight o er a good cheroot and i know she be exact and she say i be a brute. 
open the old cigar box let me consider a space. in the soft blue veil of the vapour muse on maggie s face. 
maggie be pretty to look at maggie s a love lass but the pretty cheek must wrinkle the true of love must pas. 
there s peace in a larranaga there s calm in a henry clay. but the best cigar in an hour be finish and throw away. 
throw away for another a perfect and ripe and brown but i could not throw away maggie for fear o the talk o the town. 
maggie my wife at fifty grey and dour and old with never another maggie to purchase for love or gold. 
and the light of day that have be the dark of the day that be and love s torch stink and stale like the butt of a dead cigar. 
the butt of a dead cigar you be bind to keep in your pocket with never a new one to light tho it s char and black to the socket. 
open the old cigar box let me consider a while. here be a mild manila there be a wifely smile. 
which be the good portion bondage buy with a ring or a harem of dusky beauty fifty tie in a string. 
counsellor cunning and silent comforter true and try and never a one of the fifty to sneer at a rival bride. 
think in the early morning solace in time of woe peace in the hush of the twilight balm ere my eyelid close. 
this will the fifty give me ask nought in return with only a suttee s passion to do their duty and burn. 
this will the fifty give me. when they be spend and dead five time other fifty shall be my servant instead. 
the furrow of far off java the isle of the spanish main when they hear my harem be empty will send me my bride again. 
i will take no heed to their raiment nor food for their mouth withal so long a the gull be nest so long a the shower fall. 
i will scent em with best vanilla with tea will i temper their hide and the moor and the mormon shall envy who read of the tale of my bride. 
for maggie ha write a letter to give me my choice between the wee little whimper love and the great god nick o teen. 
and i have be servant of love for barely a twelvemonth clear but i have be priest of cabana a matter of seven year. 
and the gloom of my bachelor day be fleck with the cheery light of stump that i burn to friendship and pleasure and work and fight. 
and i turn my eye to the future that maggie and i must prove but the only light on the marsh be the will o the wisp of love. 
will it see me safe through my journey or leave me bogged in the mire. since a puff of tobacco can cloud it shall i follow the fitful fire. 
open the old cigar box let me consider anew old friend and who be maggie that i should abandon you. 
a million surplus maggies be will to bear the yoke. and a woman be only a woman but a good cigar be a smoke. 
light me another cuba i hold to my first swear vow. if maggie will have no rival i ll have no maggie for spouse. 
a tale of two city. 
where the sober color cultivator smile on his byles. where the cholera the cyclone and the crow come and go. where the merchant deal in indigo and tea hide and ghi. where the babu drop inflammatory hint in his print. stand a city charnock choose it pack away near a bay by the sewage render fetid by the sewer make impure by the sunderbunds unwholesome by the swamp moist and damp. and the city and the viceroy a we see don t agree. 
once two hundred year ago the trader come meek and tame. 
where his timid foot first halt there he stay till mere trade grow to empire and he send his army forth south and north till the country from peshawur to ceylon be his own. 
thus the midday halt of charnock more s the pity. grow a city. 
a the fungus sprout chaotic from it bed so it spread chance direct chance erect lay and build on the silt palace byre hovel poverty and pride side by side. and above the pack and pestilential town death look down. 
but the ruler in that city by the sea turn to flee flee with each return spring tide from it ill to the hill. 
from the clammy fog of morning from the blaze of old day from the sickness of the noontide from the heat beat retreat. for the country from peshawur to ceylon be their own. 
but the merchant risk the peril of the plain for his gain. 
now the rest place of charnock neath the palm ask an alms and the burden of it lamentation be briefly this. because for certain month we boil and stew so should you. 
cast the viceroy and his council to perspire in our fire. and for answer to the argument in vain we explain that an amateur saint lawrence cannot fry. all must fry. that the merchant risk the peril of the plain for gain. 
nor can ruler rule a house that men grow rich in from it kitchen. 
let the babu drop inflammatory hint in his print. and mature consistent soul his plan for steal to darjeeling. let the merchant seek who make his silver pile england s isle. let the city charnock pitch on evil day. go her way. 
though the argosy of asia at her door heap their store though her enterprise and energy secure income sure though out station order punctually obey swell her trade still for rule administration and the rest simla s best. 
the end * * * * * * * *. 
volume ii ballad and barrack room ballad. 
ballad. 
the ballad of east and west. 
oh east be east and west be west and never the twain shall meet till earth and sky stand presently at god s great judgment seat. but there be neither east nor west border nor breed nor birth when two strong men stand face to face tho they come from the end of the earth. 
kamal be out with twenty men to raise the border side and he ha lift the colonel s mare that be the colonel s pride. he ha lift her out of the stable door between the dawn and the day and turn the calkin upon her foot and ride her far away. 
then up and speak the colonel s son that lead a troop of the guide. be there never a man of all my men can say where kamal hide. then up and speak mahommed khan the son of the ressaldar. if ye know the track of the morning mist ye know where his picket be. 
at dusk he harry the abazai at dawn he be into bonair but he must go by fort bukloh to his own place to fare so if ye gallop to fort bukloh a fast a a bird can fly by the favour of god ye may cut him off ere he win to the tongue of jagai. 
but if he be past the tongue of jagai right swiftly turn ye then for the length and the breadth of that grisly plain be sow with kamal s men. there be rock to the leave and rock to the right and low lean thorn between and ye may hear a breech bolt snick where never a man be see. 
the colonel s son ha take a horse and a raw rough dun be he with the mouth of a bell and the heart of hell and the head of the gallows tree. 
the colonel s son to the fort ha win they bid him stay to eat who ride at the tail of a border thief he sit not long at his meat. 
he s up and away from fort bukloh a fast a he can fly till he be aware of his father s mare in the gut of the tongue of jagai till he be aware of his father s mare with kamal upon her back and when he could spy the white of her eye he make the pistol crack. 
he ha fire once he ha fire twice but the whistle ball go wide. ye shoot like a soldier kamal say. show now if ye can ride. 
it s up and over the tongue of jagai a blow dustdevils go the dun he flee like a stag of ten but the mare like a barren doe. 
the dun he lean against the bite and slug his head above but the red mare play with the snaffle bar a a maiden play with a glove. 
there be rock to the leave and rock to the right and low lean thorn between and thrice he hear a breech bolt snick tho never a man be see. 
they have ride the low moon out of the sky their hoof drum up the dawn the dun he go like a wound bull but the mare like a new rouse fawn. 
the dun he fell at a water course in a woful heap fell he and kamal ha turn the red mare back and pull the rider free. 
he ha knock the pistol out of his hand small room be there to strive twas only by favour of mine quoth he ye ride so long alive. there be not a rock for twenty mile there be not a clump of tree but cover a man of my own men with his rifle cock on his knee. 
if i have raise my bridle hand a i have hold it low the little jackal that flee so fast be feast all in a row. if i have bow my head on my breast a i have hold it high the kite that whistle above u now be gorge till she could not fly. lightly answer the colonel s son. do good to bird and beast but count who come for the break meat before thou makest a feast. 
if there should follow a thousand sword to carry my bone away belike the price of a jackal s meal be more than a thief could pay. 
they will fee their horse on the stand crop their men on the garner grain the thatch of the byre will serve their fire when all the cattle be slay. 
but if thou thinkest the price be fair thy brother wait to sup the hound be kin to the jackal spawn howl dog and call them up. and if thou thinkest the price be high in steer and gear and stack give me my father s mare again and i ll fight my own way back. 
kamal ha grip him by the hand and set him upon his foot. no talk shall be of dog say he when wolf and gray wolf meet. 
may i eat dirt if thou hast hurt of me in deed or breath. what dam of lance bring thee forth to jest at the dawn with death. lightly answer the colonel s son. i hold by the blood of my clan. take up the mare for my father s gift by god she ha carry a man. the red mare run to the colonel s son and nuzzle against his breast. we be two strong men say kamal then but she loveth the young best. 
so she shall go with a lifter s dower my turquoise stud rein my broider saddle and saddle cloth and silver stirrup twain. the colonel s son a pistol draw and hold it muzzle end ye have take the one from a foe say he. will ye take the mate from a friend. a gift for a gift say kamal straight. a limb for the risk of a limb. 
thy father ha send his son to me i ll send my son to him. with that he whistle his only son that drop from a mountain crest he tread the ling like a buck in spring and he look like a lance in rest. 
now here be thy master kamal say who lead a troop of the guide and thou must ride at his leave side a shield on shoulder ride. till death or i cut loose the tie at camp and board and bed thy life be his thy fate it be to guard him with thy head. 
so thou must eat the white queen s meat and all her foe be thine and thou must harry thy father s hold for the peace of the border line and thou must make a trooper tough and hack thy way to power belike they will raise thee to ressaldar when i be hang in peshawur. 
they have look each other between the eye and there they find no fault they have take the oath of the brother in blood on leaven bread and salt. they have take the oath of the brother in blood on fire and fresh cut sod on the hilt and the haft of the khyber knife and the wondrous name of god. 
the colonel s son he ride the mare and kamal s boy the dun and two have come back to fort bukloh where there go forth but one. 
and when they draw to the quarter guard full twenty sword fly clear there be not a man but carry his feud with the blood of the mountaineer. 
ha do. ha do. say the colonel s son. put up the steel at your side. last night ye have strike at a border thief tonight ti a man of the guide. 
oh east be east and west be west and never the twain shall meet till earth and sky stand presently at god s great judgment seat. but there be neither east nor west border nor breed nor birth when two strong men stand face to face tho they come from the end of the earth. 
the last suttee. 
not many year ago a king die in one of the rajpoot state. his wife disregard the order of the english against suttee would have break out of the palace have not the gate be bar. 
but one of them disguise a the king s favourite dance girl pass through the line of guard and reach the pyre. there her courage fail she pray her cousin a baron of the court to kill her. this he do not know who she be. 
udai chand lay sick to death in his hold by gungra hill. all night we hear the death gong ring for the soul of the die rajpoot king all night beat up from the woman s wing a cry that we could not still. 
all night the baron come and go the lord of the out guard. all night the cressets glimmer pale on ulwar sabre and tonk jezail mewar headstall and marwar mail that clink in the palace yard. 
in the golden room on the palace roof all night he fight for air. and there be sob behind the screen rustle and whisper of woman unseen and the hungry eye of the boondi queen on the death she might not share. 
he pass at dawn the death fire leap from ridge to river head from the malwa plain to the abu scar. and wail upon wail go up to the star behind the grim zenana bar when they know that the king be dead. 
the dumb priest kneel to tie his mouth and robe him for the pyre. the boondi queen beneath u cry. see now that we die a our mother die in the bridal bed by our master s side. out woman. to the fire. 
we drive the great gate home apace. white hand be on the sill. but ere the rush of the unseen foot have reach the turn to the open street the bar shoot down the guard drum beat we hold the dovecot still. 
a face look down in the gather day and laugh speak from the wall. ohe they mourn here. let me by azizun the lucknow nautch girl i. when the house be rotten the rat must fly and i seek another thrall. 
for i rule the king a ne er do queen tonight the queen rule me. guard them safely but let me go or ever they pay the debt they owe in scourge and torture. she leap below and the grim guard watch her flee. 
they know that the king have spend his soul on a north breed dance girl. that he pray to a flat nose lucknow god and kiss the grind where her foot have tread and doom to death at her drunken nod and swear by her light curl. 
we bore the king to his father place where the tomb of the sun bear stand. where the gray ape swing and the peacock preen on fret pillar and jewel screen and the wild boar couch in the house of the queen on the drift of the desert sand. 
the herald read his title forth we set the log aglow. friend of the english free from fear baron of luni to jeysulmeer lord of the desert of bikaneer king of the jungle go. 
all night the red flame stab the sky with waver wind toss spear. and out of a shatter temple creep a woman who veil her head and weep and call on the king but the great king sleep and turn not for her tear. 
small think have he to mark the strife cold fear with hot desire when thrice she leap from the leap flame and thrice she beat her breast for shame and thrice like a wound dive she come and moan about the fire. 
one watch a bow shoot from the blaze the silent street between who have stand by the king in sport and fray to blade in ambush or boar at bay and he be a baron old and gray and kin to the boondi queen. 
he say. o shameless put aside the veil upon thy brow. who hold the king and all his land to the wanton will of a harlot s hand. will the white ash rise from the blister brand. stoop down and call him now. 
then she. by the faith of my tarnish soul all thing i do not well i have hop to clear ere the fire die and lay me down by my master s side to rule in heaven his only bride while the others howl in hell. 
but i have felt the fire s breath and hard it be to die. yet if i may pray a rajpoot lord to sully the steel of a thakur s sword with base bear blood of a trade abhor and the thakur answer ay. 
he draw and strike. the straight blade drink the life beneath the breast. 
i have look for the queen to face the flame but the harlot dy for the rajpoot dame sister of mine pas free from shame pas with thy king to rest. 
the black log crash above the white. the little flame and lean red a slaughter and blue a steel that whistle and flutter from head to heel leap up anew for they find their meal on the heart of the boondi queen. 
the ballad of the king s mercy. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief of him be the story tell. his mercy fill the khyber hill his grace be manifold. he ha take toll of the north and the south his glory reacheth far and they tell the tale of his charity from balkh to kandahar. 
before the old peshawur gate where kurd and kaffir meet the governor of kabul deal the justice of the street and that be strait a run noose and swift a plunge knife tho he who hold the long purse might hold the long life. 
there be a hound of hindustan have strike a euzufzai wherefore they spat upon his face and lead him out to die. 
it chance the king go forth that hour when throat be bar to knife. the kaffir grovel under hoof and clamour for his life. 
then say the king. have hope o friend. yea death disgrace be hard. much honour shall be thine. and call the captain of the guard yar khan a bastard of the blood so city babble saith and he be honour of the king the which be salt to death. and he be son of daoud shah the reiver of the plain and blood of old durani lord run fire in his vein. and twas to tame an afghan pride nor hell nor heaven could bind the king would make him butch to a yelp cur of hind. 
strike. say the king. king s blood art thou his death shall be his pride. then loud that the crowd might catch. fear not his arm be tie. yar khan draw clear the khyber knife and strike and sheathe again. o man thy will be do quoth he. a king this dog hath slay. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief to the north and the south be sell. the north and the south shall open their mouth to a ghilzai flag unroll when the big gun speak to the khyber peak and his dog heratis fly. ye have hear the song how long. how long. wolf of the abazai. 
that night before the watch be set when all the street be clear the governor of kabul speak. my king hast thou no fear. thou knowest thou hast hear his speech die at his master s face. 
and grimly say the afghan king. i rule the afghan race. my path be mine see thou to thine tonight upon thy bed think who there be in kabul now that clamour for thy head. 
that night when all the gate be shut to city and to throne within a little garden house the king lay down alone. 
before the sink of the moon which be the night of night yar khan come softly to the king to make his honour white. the child of the town have mock beneath his horse s hoof the harlot of the town have hail him butch. from their roof. 
but a he grope against the wall two hand upon him fell the king behind his shoulder spake. dead man thou dost not well. ti ill to jest with king by day and seek a boon by night. and that thou bearest in thy hand be all too sharp to write. 
but three day hence if god be good and if thy strength remain thou shalt demand one boon of me and bless me in thy pain. for i be merciful to all and most of all to thee. 
my butch of the shamble rest no knife hast thou for me. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief hold hard by the south and the north. but the ghilzai know ere the melt snow when the swell bank break forth when the red coat crawl to the sungar wall and his usbeg lance fail. ye have hear the song how long. how long. wolf of the zuka kheyl. 
they stone him in the rubbish field when dawn be in the sky accord to the write word see that he do not die. 
they stone him till the stone be pile above him on the plain and those the labour limb displace they tumble back again. 
one watch beside the dreary mound that veil the batter thing and him the king with laughter call the herald of the king. 
it be upon the second night the night of ramazan the watcher lean earthward hear the message of yar khan. 
from shatter breast through shrivel lip break forth the rattle breath creature of god deliver me from agony of death. 
they seek the king among his girl and risk their life thereby. protector of the pitiful give order that he die. 
bid him endure until the day a lag answer come. the night be short and he can pray and learn to bless my name. 
before the dawn three time he speak and on the day once more. creature of god deliver me and bless the king therefor. 
they shoot him at the morning prayer to ease him of his pain and when he hear the matchlock clink he bless the king again. 
which thing the singer make a song for all the world to sing so that the out sea may know the mercy of the king. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief of him be the story tell he ha open his mouth to the north and the south they have stuff his mouth with gold. 
ye know the truth of his tender ruth and sweet his favour be. ye have hear the song how long. how long. from balkh to kandahar. 
the ballad of the king s jest. 
when spring time flush the desert grass our kafilas wind through the khyber pas. 
lean be the camel but fat the frail light be the purse but heavy the bale a the snowbound trade of the north come down to the market square of peshawur town. 
in a turquoise twilight crisp and chill a kafila camp at the foot of the hill. 
then blue smoke haze of the cook rise and tent peg answer to hammer nose. and the picket pony shag and wild strain at their rope a the fee be pile. and the bubble camel beside the load sprawl for a furlong adown the road. and the persian pussy cat bring for sale spat at the dog from the camel bale. and the tribesman bellow to hasten the food. and the camp fire twinkle by fort jumrood. and there flee on the wing of the gather dusk a savour of camel and carpet and musk a murmur of voice a reek of smoke to tell u the trade of the khyber wake. 
the lid of the flesh pot chatter high the knife be whet and then come i to mahbub ali the muleteer patch his bridle and count his gear cram with the gossip of half a year. 
but mahbub ali the kindly say good be speech when the belly be feed. so we plunge the hand to the mid wrist deep in a cinnamon stew of the fat tail sheep and he who never hath taste the food by allah. he knoweth not bad from good. 
we cleanse our beard of the mutton grease we lay on the mat and be fill with peace and the talk slide north and the talk slide south with the slide puff from the hookah mouth. 
four thing great than all thing be woman and horse and power and war. 
we spake of them all but the last the most for i seek a word of a russian post of a shifty promise an unsheathe sword and a gray coat guard on the helmund ford. 
then mahbub ali lower his eye in the fashion of one who be weave lie. 
quoth he. of the russian who can say. when the night be gather all be gray. but we look that the gloom of the night shall die in the morning flush of a blood red sky. 
friend of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. we know what heaven or hell may bring but no man knoweth the mind of the king. 
that unsought counsel be curse of god attesteth the story of wali dad. 
his sire be leaky of tongue and pen his dam be a cluck khuttuck hen. and the colt breed close to the vice of each for he carry the curse of an unstanched speech. 
therewith madness so that he seek the favour of king at the kabul court. and travel in hope of honour far to the line where the gray coat squadron be. 
there have i journey too but i saw naught say naught and do not die. he hark to rumour and snatch at a breath of this one knoweth and that one saith legend that run from mouth to mouth of a gray coat come and sack of the south. 
these have i also hear they pas with each new spring and the winter grass. 
hot foot southward forget of god back to the city run wali dad even to kabul in full durbar the king hold talk with his chief in war. 
into the press of the crowd he break and what he have hear of the come speak. 
then gholam hyder the red chief smile a a mother might on a babble child. but those who would laugh restrain their breath when the face of the king show dark a death. 
evil it be in full durbar to cry to a ruler of gather war. slowly he lead to a peach tree small that grow by a cleave of the city wall. 
and he say to the boy. they shall praise thy zeal so long a the red spurt follow the steel. 
and the rus be upon u even now. great be thy prudence await them thou. watch from the tree. thou art young and strong surely thy vigil be not for long. 
the rus be upon u thy clamour run. surely an hour shall bring their van. wait and watch. when the host be near shout aloud that my men may hear. 
friend of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. a guard be set that he might not flee a score of bayonet ring the tree. 
the peach bloom fell in shower of snow when he shake at his death a he look below. by the power of god who alone be great till the seventh day he fight with his fate. 
then madness take him and men declare he mow in the branch a ape and bear and last a a sloth ere his body fail and he hang a a bat in the fork and wail and sleep the cord of his hand untie and he fell and be catch on the point and die. 
heart of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. we know what heaven or hell may bring but no man knoweth the mind of the king. 
of the gray coat come who can say. when the night be gather all be gray. 
to thing great than all thing be the first be love and the second war. 
and since we know not how war may prove heart of my heart let u talk of love. 
the ballad of boh da thone. 
this be the ballad of boh da thone erst a pretender to theebaw s throne who harry the district of alalone. how he meet with his fate and the v. p. p. 
at the hand of harendra mukerji senior gomashta g. b. t. 
boh da thone be a warrior bold. his sword and his snide be boss with gold. 
and the peacock banner his henchman bore be stiff with bullion but stiff with gore. 
he shoot at the strong and he slash at the weak from the salween scrub to the chindwin teak. 
he crucify noble he sacrifice mean he fill old lady with kerosene. 
while over the water the paper cry the patriot fight for his countryside. 
but little they care for the native press the wear white soldier in khaki dress. 
who tramp through the jungle and camp in the byre who die in the swamp and be tombed in the mire. 
who give up their life at the queen s command for the pride of their race and the peace of the land. 
now first of the foeman of boh da thone be captain o neil of the black tyrone and his be a company seventy strong who hustle that dissolute chief along. 
there be lad from galway and louth and meath who go to their death with a joke in their teeth and worship with fluency fervour and zeal the mud on the boot heel of crook o neil. 
but ever a blight on their labour lay and ever their quarry would vanish away till the sun dry boy of the black tyrone take a brotherly interest in boh da thone. and sooth if pursuit in possession end the boh and his tracker be best of friend. 
the word of a scout a march by night a rush through the mist a scatter fight a volley from cover a corpse in the clear the glimpse of a loin cloth and heavy jade earring the flare of a village the tally of slay and. the boh be abroad on the raid again. 
they curse their luck a the irish will they give him credit for cunning and skill they bury their dead they bolt their beef and start anew on the track of the thief till in place of the kalends of greece men say when crook and his darling come back with the head. 
they have hunt the boh from the hill to the plain he double and break for the hill again. they have cripple his power for rapine and raid they have rout him out of his pet stockade and at last they come when the day star tire to a camp desert a village fire. 
a black cross blister the morning gold and the body upon it be stark and cold. the wind of the dawn go merrily past the high grass bow her plume to the blast. 
and out of the grass on a sudden break a spirtle of fire a whorl of smoke. 
and captain o neil of the black tyrone be bless with a slug in the ulnar bone the gift of his enemy boh da thone. 
now a slug that be hammer from telegraph wire be a thorn in the flesh and a rankle fire. * * * * *. 
the shoot wind fester a shoot wound may in a steam barrack at mandalay. 
the leave arm throb and the captain swear i d like to be after the boh once more. the fever hold him the captain say i d give a hundred to look at his head. 
the hospital punkah creak and whir but babu harendra. gomashta. hear. 
he think of the cane brake green and dank that girdle his home by the dacca tank. he think of his wife and his high school son he think but abandon the think of a gun. his sleep be break by vision dread of a shin boh with a silver head. 
he keep his counsel and go his way and swindle the cartmen of half their pay. * * * * *. 
and the month go on a the bad must do and the boh return to the raid anew. 
but the captain have quit the long draw strife and in far simoorie have take a wife. and she be a damsel of delicate mould with hair like the sunshine and heart of gold. 
and little she know the arm that embrace have cleave a man from the brow to the waist. and little she know that the love lip have order a quiver life s eclipse. 
and the eye that light at her light breath have glare unawed in the gate of death. 
for these be matter a man would hide a a general rule from an innocent bride. 
and little the captain think of the past and of all men babu harendra last. * * * * *. 
but slow in the sludge of the kathun road the government bullock train tot it load. speckle and spotless and shin with ghee in the rearmost cart sit the babu jee. 
and ever a phantom before him flee of a scowl boh with a silver head. 
then the lead cart stick though the cooly slave and the cartmen flog and the escort rave. and out of the jungle with yell and squeal prance boh da thone and his gang at his heel. 
then belch blunderbuss answer back the snide s snarl and the carbine s crack and the blithe revolver begin to sing to the blade that twang on the lock ring and the brown flesh blue where the bay net kiss a the steel shoot back with a wrench and a twist and the great white bullock with onyx eye watch the soul of the dead arise and over the smoke of the fusillade the peacock banner stagger and sway. 
oh gay of scrimmage man may see be a well work rush on the g. b. t. 
the babu shake at the horrible sight and gird his ponderous loin for flight but fate have ordain that the boh should start on a lone hand raid of the rearmost cart and out of that cart with a bellow of woe the babu fell flat on the top of the boh. 
for year have harendra serve the state to the growth of his purse and the girth of his pet. 
there be twenty stone a the tally man know on the broad of the chest of this best of bohs. and twenty stone from a height discharge be bad for a boh with a spleen enlarge. 
oh short be the struggle severe be the shock he drop like a bullock he lay like a block. and the babu above him convulse with fear hear the labour life breath hiss out in his ear. 
and thus in a fashion undignified the princely pest of the chindwin die. * * * * *. 
turn now to simoorie where lap in his ease the captain be pet the bride on his knee where the whit of the bullet the wound man s scream be mix a the mist of some devilish dream forget forget the sweat of the shamble where the hill daisy bloom and the gray monkey gambol from the sword belt set free and release from the steel the peace of the lord be with captain o neil. * * * * *. 
up the hill to simoorie most patient of drudge the bag on his shoulder the mail runner trudge. 
for captain o neil sahib. one hundred and ten rupee to collect on delivery. then. 
their breakfast be stop while the screw jack and hammer tear waxcloth split teak wood and chip out the dammer. 
open eye open mouth on the napery s snow with a crash and a thud roll the head of the boh. 
and gum to the scalp be a letter which run. in field force service. 
encampment th jan. 
dear sir i have honour to send a you say for final approval. see under. boh s head. 
be take by myself in most bloody affair. 
by high education bring pressure to bear. 
now violate liberty time be bad to mail v. p. p. rupee hundred. please add. 
whatever your honour can pas. price of blood much cheap at one hundred and child want food. 
so trust your honour will somewhat retain true love and affection for govt. bullock train. 
and show awful kindness to satisfy me i be graceful master your h. mukerji. * * * * *. 
a the rabbit be draw to the rattlesnake s power a the smoker s eye fill at the opium hour a a horse reach up to the manger above a the wait ear yearn for the whisper of love from the arm of the bride iron visaged and slow the captain bend down to the head of the boh. 
and e en a he look on the thing where it lay twixt the wink new spoon and the napkin array the free mind flee back to the long ago day the hand to hand scuffle the smoke and the blaze the force march at night and the quick rush at dawn the banjo at twilight the burial ere morn the stench of the marsh the raw pierce smell when the overhand stab cut silence the yell the oath of his irish that surge when they stand where the black cross hang o er the kuttamow flood. 
a a derelict ship drift away with the tide the captain go out on the past from his bride. 
back back through the spring to the chill of the year when he hunt the boh from maloon to tsaleer. 
a the shape of a corpse dimmer up through deep water in his eye light the passionless passion of slaughter and men who have fight with o neil for the life have gaze on his face with le dread than his wife. 
for she who have hold him so long could not hold him though a four month eternity should have control him but watch the twin terror the head turn to head the scowl scar black and the flush savage red the spirit that change from her know and fly to some grim hide past she have never a clue to. 
but it know a it grin for he touch it unfearing and mutter aloud so you keep that jade earring. 
then nod and kindly a friend nod to friend old man you fight well but you lose in the end. * * * * *. 
the vision depart and shame follow passion. he take what i say in this horrible fashion. 
i ll write to harendra. with language unsainted the captain come back to the bride. who have faint. * * * * *. 
and this be a fiction. no. go to simoorie and look at their baby a twelve month old houri a pert little irish eye kathleen mavournin she s always about on the mall of a mornin. 
and you ll see if her right shoulder strap be displace this. gules upon argent a boh s head erase. 
the lament of the border cattle thief. 
o woe be me for the merry life i lead beyond the bar and a treble woe for my winsome wife that weep at shalimar. 
they have take away my long jezail my shield and sabre fine and heave me into the central jail for lift of the kine. 
the steer may low within the byre the jat may tend his grain but there ll be neither loot nor fire till i come back again. 
and god have mercy on the jat when once my fetter fall and heaven defend the farmer s hut when i be loose from thrall. 
it s woe to bend the stubborn back above the grinching quern it s woe to hear the leg bar clack and jingle when i turn. 
but for the sorrow and the shame the brand on me and mine i ll pay you back in leap flame and loss of the butcher kine. 
for every cow i spar before in charity set free if i may reach my hold once more i ll reive an honest three. 
for every time i raise the low that scar the dusty plain by sword and cord by torch and tow i ll light the land with twain. 
ride hard ride hard to abazai young sahib with the yellow hair lie close lie close a khuttucks lie fat herd below bonair. 
the one i ll shoot at twilight tide at dawn i ll drive the other. the black shall mourn for hoof and hide the white man for his brother. 
ti war red war i ll give you then war till my sinew fail. for the wrong you have do to a chief of men and a thief of the zukka kheyl. 
and if i fall to your hand afresh i give you leave for the sin that you cram my throat with the foul pig s flesh and swing me in the skin. 
the rhyme of the three captain. 
this ballad appear to refer to one of the exploit of the notorious paul jones the american pirate. it be found on fact. 
at the close of a winter day their anchor down by london town the three great captain lay. and one be admiral of the north from solway firth to skye and one be lord of the wessex coast and all the land thereby and one be master of the thames from limehouse to blackwall and he be captain of the fleet the brave of them all. 
their good gun guard their great gray side that be thirty foot in the sheer when there come a certain trade brig with news of a privateer. 
her rig be rough with the clot drift that drive in a northern breeze her side be clog with the lazy weed that spawn in the eastern sea. 
light she ride in the rude tide rip to leave and right she roll and the skipper sit on the scuttle butt and star at an empty hold. 
i ha pay port due for your law quoth he and where be the law ye boast if i sail unscathed from a heathen port to be rob on a christian coast. ye have smoke the hive of the laccadives a we burn the louse in a bunk we tack not now to a gallang prow or a plunge pei ho junk. i have no fear but the sea be clear a far a a sail might fare till i meet with a lime wash yankee brig that ride off finisterre. 
there be canvas blind to his bow gun port to screen the weight he bore and the signal run for a merchantman from sandy hook to the nore. 
he would not fly the rover flag the bloody or the black but now he float the gridiron and now he flaunt the jack. he speak of the law a he crimp my crew he swear it be only a loan. but when i would ask for my own again he swear it be none of my own. 
he ha take my little parrakeet that nest beneath the line he ha strip my rail of the shaddock frail and the green unripened pine. he ha take my bale of dammer and spice i win beyond the sea he ha take my grin heathen god and what should he want o these. my foremast would not mend his boom my deckhouse patch his boat. he ha whittle the two this yank yahoo to peddle for shoe peg oat. 
i could not fight for the fail light and a rough beam sea beside but i hull him once for a clumsy crimp and twice because he lie. 
have i have gun. a i have good. to work my christian harm i have run him up from his quarter deck to trade with his own yard arm. i have nail his ear to my capstan head and rip them off with a saw and souse them in the bilgewater and serve them to him raw. i have fling him blind in a rudderless boat to rot in the rock dark i have tow him aft of his own craft a bait for his brother shark. i have lap him round with cocoa husk and drench him with the oil and lash him fast to his own mast to blaze above my spoil. i have strip his hide for my hammock side and tasselled his beard i the mesh and spit his crew on the live bamboo that grow through the gangrene flesh. i have heave him down by the mangrove brown where the mud reef suck and draw moor by the heel to his own keel to wait for the land crab s claw. he be lazar within and lime without ye can nose him far enow for he carry the taint of a musky ship the reek of the slaver s dhow. the skipper look at the tiering gun and the bulwark tall and cold and the captain three full courteously peer down at the gutted hold and the captain three call courteously from deck to scuttle butt. good sir we ha deal with that merchantman or ever your teeth be cut. 
your word be word of a lawless race and the law it standeth thus. he come of a race that have never a law and he never ha board u. 
we ha sell him canvas and rope and spar we know that his price be fair and we know that he weep for the lack of a law a he ride off finisterre. 
and since he be damn for a gallows thief by you and good than you we hold it meet that the english fleet should know that we hold him true. the skipper call to the tall taffrail. and what be that to me. do ever you hear of a yankee brig that rifle a seventy three. do i loom so large from your quarter deck that i lift like a ship o the line. he ha learn to run from a shotted gun and harry such craft a mine. 
there be never a law on the coco key to hold a white man in but we do not steal the nigger meal for that be a nigger s sin. 
must he have his law a a quid to chaw or lay in brass on his wheel. doe he steal with tear when he buccaneer. fore gad then why doe he steal. the skipper bite on a deep sea word and the word it be not sweet for he could see the captain three have signal to the fleet. 
but three and two in white and blue the whimper flag begin. we have hear a tale of a foreign sail but he be a merchantman. the skipper peer beneath his palm and swear by the great horn spoon. fore gad the chaplain of the fleet would bless my picaroon. by two and three the flag blow free to lash the laugh air. we have sell our spar to the merchantman we know that his price be fair. the skipper wink his western eye and swear by a china storm. they ha rig him a joseph s jury coat to keep his honour warm. the halliard twang against the top the bunt belly broad the skipper spat in the empty hold and mourn for a waste cord. 
masthead masthead the signal speed by the line o the british craft. the skipper call to his lascar crew and put her about and laugh. it s mainsail haul my bully boy all we ll out to the sea again ere they set u to paint their pirate saint or scrub at his grapnel chain. 
it s fore sheet free with her head to the sea and the swing of the unbought brine we ll make no sport in an english court till we come a a ship o the line. till we come a a ship o the line my lad of thirty foot in the sheer lift again from the out main with news of a privateer. fly his pluck at our mizzen truck for weft of admiralty heave his head for our dipsey lead in sign that we keep the sea. 
then fore sheet home a she lift to the foam we stand on the outward tack we be pay in the coin of the white man s trade the bezant be hard ay and black. 
the frigate bird shall carry my word to the kling and the orang laut how a man may sail from a heathen coast to be rob in a christian port. how a man may be rob in christian port while three great captain there shall dip their flag to a slaver s rag to show that his trade be fair. 
the ballad of the clampherdown. 
it be our war ship clampherdown would sweep the channel clean wherefore she keep her hatch close when the merry channel chop arise to save the bleach marine. 
she have one bow gun of a hundred ton and a great stern gun beside. they dip their nose deep in the sea they rack their stay and stanchion free in the wash of the wind whip tide. 
it be our war ship clampherdown fell in with a cruiser light that carry the dainty hotchkiss gun and a pair o heel wherewith to run from the grip of a close fight fight. 
she open fire at seven mile a ye shoot at a bob cork and once she fire and twice she fire till the bow gun droop like a lily tire that loll upon the stalk. 
captain the bow gun melt apace the deck beam break below twere well to rest for an hour or twain and patch the shatter plate again. and he answer make it so. 
she open fire within the mile a ye shoot at the fly duck and the great stern gun shoot fair and true with the heave of the ship to the stainless blue and the great stern turret stick. 
captain the turret fill with steam the fee pipe burst below you can hear the hiss of the helpless ram you can hear the twist runner jam. and he answer turn and go. 
it be our war ship clampherdown and grimly do she roll. swing round to take the cruiser s fire a the white whale face the thresher s ire when they war by the freeze pole. 
captain the shell be fall fast and fast still fall we. and it be not meet for english stock to bide in the heart of an eight day clock the death they cannot see. 
lie down lie down my bold a. b. we drift upon her beam. we dare not ram for she can run. and dare ye fire another gun and die in the peel steam. 
it be our war ship clampherdown that carry an armour belt. but fifty foot at stern and bow lay bare a the paunch of the purser s sow to the hail of the nordenfeldt. 
captain they hack u through and through. the chill steel bolt be swift. we have empty the bunker in open sea their shrapnel burst where our coal should be. and he answer let her drift. 
it be our war ship clampherdown swing round upon the tide her two dumb gun glare south and north and the blood and the bubble steam run forth and she grind the cruiser s side. 
captain they cry the fight be do they bid you send your sword. and he answer grapple her stern and bow. they have ask for the steel. they shall have it now. out cutlass and board. 
it be our war ship clampherdown spew up four hundred men. and the scald stoker yelp delight a they roll in the waist and hear the fight stamp o er their steel wall pen. 
they clear the cruiser end to end from con tower to hold. they fight a they fight in nelson s fleet. they be strip to the waist they be bare to the foot a it be in the day of old. 
it be the sink clampherdown heave up her batter side and carry a million pound in steel to the cod and the corpse feed conger eel and the scour of the channel tide. 
it be the crew of the clampherdown stand out to sweep the sea on a cruiser win from an ancient foe a it be in the day of long ago and a it still shall be. 
the ballad of the bolivar. 
seven men from all the world back to dock again roll down the ratcliffe road drink and raise cain. give the girl another drink fore we sign away we that take the bolivar out across the bay. 
we put out from sunderland load down with rail. we put back to sunderland cause our cargo shift. we put out from sunderland meet the winter gale seven day and seven night to the start we drift. 
racket her rivet loose smoke stack white a snow all the coal adrift adeck half the rail below leak like a lobster pot steer like a dray out we take the bolivar out across the bay. 
one by one the light come up wink and let u by. mile by mile we waddle on coal and fo c sle short. meet a blow that lay u down hear a bulkhead fly. leave the wolf behind u with a two foot list to port. 
trail like a wound duck work out her soul. clang like a smithy shop after every roll. just a funnel and a mast lurch through the spray so we thresh the bolivar out across the bay. 
felt her hog and felt her sag bet when she d break. wonder every time she race if she d stand the shock. hear the sea like drunken men pound at her strake. hop the lord ud keep his thumb on the plummer block. 
bang against the iron deck bilge choke with coal. flay and freeze foot and hand sick of heart and soul. last we pray she d buck herself into judgment day hi. we curse the bolivar knock round the bay. 
o her nose fling up to sky groan to be still up and down and back we go never time for breath. then the money pay at lloyd s catch her by the heel and the star run round and round dancin at our death. 
ache for an hour s sleep doze off between. hear the rotten rivet draw when she take it green. watch the compass chase it tail like a cat at play that be on the bolivar south across the bay. 
once we saw between the squall lyin head to swell mad with work and weariness wishin they be we some damn liner s light go by like a long hotel. cheer her from the bolivar swampin in the sea. 
then a grayback clear u out then the skipper laugh. boy the wheel ha go to hell rig the winch aft. yoke the kick rudder head get her under way. so we steer her pulley haul out across the bay. 
just a pack o rotten plate putty up with tar in we come an time enough cross bilbao bar. 
overload undermanned mean to founder we euchred god almighty s storm bluff the eternal sea. 
seven men from all the world back to town again rollin down the ratcliffe road drink and raise cain. seven men from out of hell. ain t the owner gay cause we take the bolivar safe across the bay. 
the english flag. 
above the portico a flag staff bear the union jack remain flutter in the flame for some time but ultimately when it fell the crowd rent the air with shout and seem to see significance in the incident. daily paper. 
wind of the world give answer. they be whimper to and fro and what should they know of england who only england know. the poor little street breed people that vapour and fume and brag they be lift their head in the stillness to yelp at the english flag. 
must we borrow a clout from the boer to plaster anew with dirt. an irish liar s bandage or an english coward s shirt. 
we may not speak of england. her flag s to sell or share. what be the flag of england. wind of the world declare. 
the north wind blow. from bergen my steel shoe vanguard go. i chase your lazy whaler home from the disko floe. by the great north light above me i work the will of god and the liner split on the ice field or the dogger fill with cod. 
i bar my gate with iron i shutter my door with flame because to force my rampart your nutshell navy come. i take the sun from their presence i cut them down with my blast and they die but the flag of england blow free ere the spirit pass. 
the lean white bear hath see it in the long long arctic night the musk ox know the standard that flout the northern light. what be the flag of england. ye have but my berg to dare ye have but my drift to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
the south wind sigh. from the virgin my mid sea course be ta en over a thousand island lose in an idle main where the sea egg flame on the coral and the long back breaker croon their endless ocean legend to the lazy lock lagoon. stray amid lonely islet mazed amid out key i wake the palm to laughter i toss the scud in the breeze never be isle so little never be sea so lone but over the scud and the palm tree an english flag be fly. 
i have wrench it free from the halliard to hang for a wisp on the horn. i have chase it north to the lizard ribboned and roll and tear. i have spread it fold o er the die adrift in a hopeless sea. i have hurl it swift on the slaver and see the slave set free. 
my bask sunfish know it and wheel albatross where the lone wave fill with fire beneath the southern cross. what be the flag of england. ye have but my reef to dare ye have but my sea to furrow. go forth for it be there. 
the east wind roar. from the kuriles the bitter sea i come and me men call the home wind for i bring the english home. look look well to your ship. by the breath of my mad typhoon i sweep your close pack praya and beach your best at kowloon. 
the reel junk behind me and the race sea before i rap your rich roadstead i plunder singapore. i set my hand on the hoogli. a a hood snake she rise and i fling your stout steamer to roost with the startle crow. 
never the lotus close never the wild fowl wake but a soul go out on the east wind that die for england s sake man or woman or suckle mother or bride or maid because on the bone of the english the english flag be stay. 
the desert dust hath dim it the fly wild as know the scar white leopard wind it across the taintless snow. what be the flag of england. ye have but my sun to dare ye have but my sand to travel. go forth for it be there. 
the west wind call. in squadron the thoughtless galleon fly that bear the wheat and cattle l street breed people die. they make my might their porter they make my house their path till i loose my neck from their rudder and whelm them all in my wrath. 
i draw the glide fog bank a a snake be draw from the hole they bellow one to the other the fright ship bell toll for day be a drift terror till i raise the shroud with my breath and they see strange bow above them and the two go lock to death. 
but whether in calm or wrack wreath whether by dark or day i heave them whole to the conger or rip their plate away first of the scatter legion under a shriek sky dip between the roller the english flag go by. 
the dead dumb fog hath wrap it the freeze dew have kiss the naked star have see it a fellow star in the mist. what be the flag of england. ye have but my breath to dare ye have but my wave to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
clear. in memory of a commission. 
help for a patriot distress a spotless spirit hurt help for an honorable clan sore trample in the dirt. from queenstown bay to donegal o listen to my song the honorable gentleman have suffer grievous wrong. 
their noble name be mention o the burn black disgrace. by a brutal saxon paper in an irish shoot case. they sit upon it for a year then steel their heart to brave it and coruscate innocence the learn judge give it. 
bear witness heaven of that grim crime beneath the surgeon s knife the honorable gentleman deplore the loss of life. bear witness of those chant choir that burk and shirk and snigger no man lay hand upon the knife or finger to the trigger. 
clear in the face of all mankind beneath the wink sky like phoenix from phoenix park. and what lay there. they rise. go shout it to the emerald sea give word to erin now her honorable gentleman be clear and this be how. 
they only pay the moonlighter his cattle hock price they only help the murderer with council s best advice but sure it keep their honor white the learn court belief they never give a piece of plate to murderer and thief. 
they ever tell the ramp crowd to card a woman s hide they never mark a man for death what fault of theirs he die. they only say intimidate and talk and go away by god the boy that do the work be brave men than they. 
their sin it be that feed the fire small blame to them that hear the bhoys get drink on rhetoric and madden at the word they know whom they be talk at if they be irish too the gentleman that lie in court they know and well they know. 
they only take the juda gold from fenians out of jail they only fawn for dollar on the blood dye clan na gael. if black be black or white be white ill black and white it s down they re only traitor to the queen and rebel to the crown. 
clear honorable gentleman. be thankful it s no more. the widow s curse be on your house the dead be at your door. on you the shame of open shame on you from north to south the band of every honest man flat heel across your mouth. 
le black than we be paint. faith no word of black be say. the light touch be human blood and that ye know run red. it s stick to your fist today for all your sneer and scoff and by the judge s well weigh word you cannot wipe it off. 
hold up those hand of innocence go scare your sheep together the blunder trip tup that bleat behind the old bell wether. and if they snuff the taint and break to find another pen tell them it s tar that glisten so and daub them yours again. 
the charge be old. a old a cain a fresh a yesterday. old a the ten commandment have ye talk those law away. if word be word or death be death or powder send the ball you speak the word that speed the shoot the curse be on you all. 
our friend believe. of course they do a shelter woman may. but have they see the shriek soul rip from the quiver clay. they if their own front door be shut they ll swear the whole world s warm. what do they know of dread of death or hang fear of harm. 
the secret half a country keep the whisper in the lane the shriek that tell the shoot go home behind the break pane the dry blood crisp in the sun that scare the honest bee and show the bhoys have hear your talk what do they know of these. 
but you you know ay ten time more. the secret of the dead black terror on the country side by word and whisper breed the mangle stallion s scream at night the tail crop heifer s low. who set the whisper go first. you know and well you know. 
my soul. i d sooner lie in jail for murder plain and straight pure crime i d do with my own hand for money lust or hate than take a seat in parliament by fellow felon cheer while one of those not provens prove me clear a you be clear. 
clear you that lose the league account go guard our honor still go help to make our country s law that break god s law at will one hand stick out behind the back to signal strike again. the other on your dress shirt front to show your heart be @dane. 
if black be black or white be white in black and white it s down you re only traitor to the queen and but rebel to the crown if print be print or word be word the learn court perpends. we be not rule by murderer only by their friend. 
an imperial rescript. 
now this be the tale of the council the german kaiser decree to ease the strong of their burden to help the weak in their need he send a word to the people who struggle and pant and sweat that the straw might be count fairly and the tally of brick be set. 
the lord of their hand assemble. from the east and the west they draw baltimore lille and essen brummagem clyde and crewe. and some be black from the furnace and some be brown from the soil and some be blue from the dye vat. but all be weary of toil. 
and the young king say. i have find it the road to the rest ye seek. the strong shall wait for the weary the hale shall halt for the weak. with the even tramp of an army where no man break from the line ye shall march to peace and plenty in the bond of brotherhood sign. 
the paper lay on the table the strong head bow thereby and a wail go up from the people. ay sign give rest for we die. a hand be stretch to the goose quill a fist be cramp to scrawl when the laugh of a blue eye maiden run clear through the council hall. 
and each one hear her laugh a each one saw her plain saidie mimi or olga gretchen or mary jane. and the spirit of man that be in him to the light of the vision wake. and the men draw back from the paper a a yankee delegate speak. 
there s a girl in jersey city who work on the telephone. we re go to hitch our horse and dig for a house of our own with gas and water connection and steam heat through to the top. and w. hohenzollern i guess i shall work till i drop. 
and an english delegate thunder. the weak an the lame be blow. i ve a berth in the sou west workshop a home in the wandsworth road. and till the sociation ha foot my buryin bill i work for the kid an the missus. pull up. i be damn if i will. 
and over the german bench the beard whisper run. lager d girl und d dollar dey make or dey break a man. if schmitt haf collar d dollar he collar d girl deremit. but if schmitt bust in d pizness we collar d girl from schmitt. 
they pass one resolution. your sub committee believe you can lighten the curse of adam when you ve lighten the curse of eve. but till we be build like angel with hammer and chisel and pen we will work for ourself and a woman for ever and ever amen. 
now this be the tale of the council the german kaiser hold the day that they razor the grindstone the day that the cat be bell the day of the fig from thistle the day of the twist sand the day that the laugh of a maiden make light of the lord of their hand. 
tomlinson. 
now tomlinson give up the ghost in his house in berkeley square and a spirit come to his bedside and grip him by the hair a spirit grip him by the hair and carry him far away till he hear a the roar of a rain feed ford the roar of the milky way. till he hear the roar of the milky way die down and drone and cease and they come to the gate within the wall where peter hold the key. 
stand up stand up now tomlinson and answer loud and high the good that ye do for the sake of men or ever ye come to die the good that ye do for the sake of men in little earth so lone. and the naked soul of tomlinson grow white a a rain wash bone. 
o i have a friend on earth he say that be my priest and guide and well would he answer all for me if he be by my side. for that ye strive in neighbour love it shall be write fair but now ye wait at heaven s gate and not in berkeley square. though we call your friend from his bed this night he could not speak for you for the race be run by one and one and never by two and two. then tomlinson look up and down and little gain be there for the naked star grin overhead and he saw that his soul be bare. the wind that blow between the world it cut him like a knife and tomlinson take up his tale and speak of his good in life. 
this i have read in a book he say and that be tell to me and this i have think that another man think of a prince in muscovy. the good soul flock like home dove and bid him clear the path and peter twirl the jangle key in weariness and wrath. 
ye have read ye have hear ye have think he say and the tale be yet to run. by the worth of the body that once ye have give answer what ha ye do. then tomlinson look back and forth and little good it bore for the darkness stay at his shoulder blade and heaven s gate before. o this i have felt and this i have guess and this i have hear men say and this they write that another man write of a carl in norroway. ye have read ye have felt ye have guess good lack. ye have hamper heaven s gate. there s little room between the star in idleness to prate. o none may reach by hire speech of neighbour priest and kin through borrow deed to god s good meed that lie so fair within. get hence get hence to the lord of wrong for doom ha yet to run and. the faith that ye share with berkeley square uphold you tomlinson. * * * * *. 
the spirit grip him by the hair and sun by sun they fell till they come to the belt of naughty star that rim the mouth of hell. the first be red with pride and wrath the next be white with pain but the third be black with clinker sin that cannot burn again. they may hold their path they may leave their path with never a soul to mark they may burn or freeze but they must not cease in the scorn of the out dark. 
the wind that blow between the world it nip him to the bone and he yearn to the flare of hell gate there a the light of his own hearth stone. 
the devil he sit behind the bar where the desperate legion draw but he catch the hasting tomlinson and would not let him through. 
wot ye the price of good pit coal that i must pay. say he that ye rank yoursel so fit for hell and ask no leave of me. i be all o er sib to adam s breed that ye should give me scorn for i strive with god for your first father the day that he be bear. 
sit down sit down upon the slag and answer loud and high the harm that ye do to the son of men or ever you come to die. and tomlinson look up and up and saw against the night the belly of a torture star blood red in hell mouth light. and tomlinson look down and down and saw beneath his foot the frontlet of a torture star milk white in hell mouth heat. 
o i have a love on earth say he that kiss me to my fall and if ye would call my love to me i know she would answer all. all that ye do in love forbid it shall be write fair but now ye wait at hell mouth gate and not in berkeley square. though we whistle your love from her bed tonight i trow she would not run for the sin ye do by two and two ye must pay for one by one. the wind that blow between the world it cut him like a knife and tomlinson take up the tale and speak of his sin in life. once i ha laugh at the power of love and twice at the grip of the grave and thrice i ha pat my god on the head that men might call me brave. the devil he blow on a brandered soul and set it aside to cool. do ye think i would waste my good pit coal on the hide of a brain sick fool. i see no worth in the hobnail mirth or the jolthead jest ye do that i should waken my gentleman that be sleep three on a grid. then tomlinson look back and forth and there be little grace for hell gate fill the houseless soul with the fear of naked space. 
nay this i ha hear quo tomlinson and this be noise abroad and this i ha get from a belgian book on the word of a dead french lord. ye ha hear ye ha read ye ha get good lack. and the tale begin afresh have ye sin one sin for the pride o the eye or the sinful lust of the flesh. then tomlinson he grip the bar and yammer let me in for i mind that i borrow my neighbour s wife to sin the deadly sin. the devil he grin behind the bar and bank the fire high. do ye read of that sin in a book. say he. and tomlinson say ay. the devil he blow upon his nail and the little devil run and he say. go husk this whimper thief that come in the guise of a man. winnow him out twixt star and star and sieve his proper worth. there s sore decline in adam s line if this be spawn of earth. 
empusa s crew so naked new they may not face the fire but weep that they bin too small to sin to the height of their desire over the coal they chase the soul and rack it all abroad a child rifle a caddis case or the raven s foolish hoard. 
and back they come with the tattered thing a child after play and they say. the soul that he get from god he ha barter clean away. 
we have thresh a stook of print and book and winnow a chatter wind and many a soul wherefrom he steal but his we cannot find. we have handle him we have dandle him we have sear him to the bone and sure if tooth and nail show truth he ha no soul of his own. the devil he bow his head on his breast and rumble deep and low. i m all o er sib to adam s breed that i should bid him go. 
yet close we lie and deep we lie and if i give him place my gentleman that be so proud would flout me to my face. they d call my house a common stew and me a careless host and i would not anger my gentleman for the sake of a shiftless ghost. the devil he look at the mangle soul that pray to feel the flame and he think of holy charity but he think of his own good name. now ye could haste my coal to waste and sit ye down to fry. do ye think of that theft for yourself. say he. and tomlinson say ay. the devil he blow an outward breath for his heart be free from care. ye have scarce the soul of a louse he say but the root of sin be there and for that sin should ye come in be i the lord alone. but sinful pride ha rule inside and mighty than my own. 
honour and wit fore damn they sit to each his priest and whore. nay scarce i dare myself go there and you they d torture sore. 
ye be neither spirit nor spirk he say. ye be neither book nor brute go get ye back to the flesh again for the sake of man s repute. 
i m all o er sib to adam s breed that i should mock your pain but look that ye win to worthy sin ere ye come back again. get hence the hearse be at your door the grim black stallion wait they bear your clay to place today. speed l ye come too late. go back to earth with a lip unseal go back with an open eye and carry my word to the son of men or ever ye come to die. that the sin they do by two and two they must pay for one by one and. the god that you take from a print book be with you tomlinson. 
* * * * * * *. 
barrack room ballad. 
dedication. 
to t. a. 
i have make for you a song and it may be right or wrong but only you can tell me if it s true. i have try for to explain both your pleasure and your pain and thomas here s my best respect to you. 
o there ll surely come a day when they ll give you all your pay and treat you a a christian ought to do. so until that day come round heaven keep you safe and sound and thomas here s my best respect to you. r. k. 
danny deever. 
what be the bugle blowin for. say file on parade. 
to turn you out to turn you out the colour sergeant say. 
what make you look so white so white. say file on parade. 
i m dreadin what i ve get to watch the colour sergeant say. 
for they re hangin danny deever you can hear the dead march play the regiment s in ollow square they re hangin him today. they ve take of his button off an cut his stripe away an they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what make the rear rank breathe so ard. say file on parade. 
it s bitter cold it s bitter cold the colour sergeant say. 
what make that front rank man fall down. say file on parade. 
a touch o sun a touch o sun the colour sergeant say. 
they be hangin danny deever they be marchin of im round they ave alted danny deever by be coffin on the grind. an e ll swing in arf a minute for a sneakin shootin hound o they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
be cot be right and cot to mine say file on parade. 
e s sleepin out an far tonight the colour sergeant say. 
i ve drink be beer a score o time say file on parade. 
e s drinkin bitter beer alone the colour sergeant say. 
they be hangin danny deever you must mark im to be place for e shoot a comrade sleepin you must look im in the face. nine undred of be county an the regiment s disgrace while they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what s that so black agin the sun. say file on parade. 
it s danny fightin ard for life the colour sergeant say. 
what s that that whimper over ead. say file on parade. 
it s danny s soul that s passin now the colour sergeant say. 
for they re do with danny deever you can ear the quickstep play the regiment s in column an they re marchin u away. ho. the young recruit be shakin an they ll want their beer today after hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
tommy. 
i go into a public ouse to get a pint o beer the publican e up an sez we serve no red coat here. the girl be ind the bar they laugh an giggle fit to die i out into the street again an to myself sez i. o it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy go away. but it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play the band begin to play my boy the band begin to play o it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play. 
i go into a theatre a sober a could be they give a drink civilian room but adn t none for me. they send me to the gallery or round the music alls but when it come to fightin lord. they ll shove me in the stall. for it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy wait outside. but it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide the troopship s on the tide my boy the troopship s on the tide o it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide. 
yes makin mock o uniform that guard you while you sleep be cheap than them uniform an they re starvation cheap. an hustlin drunken soldier when they re goin large a bite be five time good business than paradin in full kit. 
then it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy ow s yer soul. but it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll the drum begin to roll my boy the drum begin to roll o it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll. 
we aren t no thin red eroes nor we aren t no blackguard too but single men in barricks most remarkable like you. an if sometimes our conduck isn t all your fancy paint why single men in barricks don t grow into plaster saint. while it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy fall be ind but it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind there s trouble in the wind my boy there s trouble in the wind o it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind. 
you talk o good food for u an school an fire an all. we ll wait for extry ration if you treat u rational. don t mess about the cook room slop but prove it to our face the widow s uniform be not the soldier man s disgrace. 
for it s tommy this an tommy that an chuck him out the brute. but it s saviour of be country when the gun begin to shoot. an it s tommy this an tommy that an anything you please. an tommy ain t a bloomin fool you bet that tommy see. 
fuzzy wuzzy. soudan expeditionary force. 
we ve fight with many men acrost the sea an some of em be brave an some be not. the paythan an the zulu an burmese. but the fuzzy be the fine o the lot. 
we never get a ha porth s change of im. e squat in the scrub an ocked our or e cut our sentry up at suakim an e play the cat an banjo with our force. 
so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. we give you your certificate an if you want it sign we ll come an ave a romp with you whenever you re incline. 
we take our chanst among the khyber ill the boer knock u silly at a mile the burman give u irriwaddy chill an a zulu impi dish u up in style. but all we ever get from such a they be pop to what the fuzzy make u swaller. we eld our bloomin own the paper say but man for man the fuzzy knock u oller. 
then ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an the missis and the kid. our order be to break you an of course we go an do. we slosh you with martini an it wasn t ardly fair. but for all the odds agin you fuzzy wuz you break the square. 
e asn t get no paper of be own e asn t get no medal nor reward so we must certify the skill e s show in usin of be long two anded sword. when e s oppin in an out among the bush with be coffin eaded shield an shovel spear an appy day with fuzzy on the rush will last an ealthy tommy for a year. 
so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an your friend which be no more if we adn t lose some messmate we would elp you to deplore. but give an take s the gospel an we ll call the bargain fair for if you ave lose more than u you crumple up the square. 
e rush at the smoke when we let drive an before we know e s ackin at our ead. e s all ot sand an ginger when alive an e s generally shammin when e s dead. 
e s a daisy e s a ducky e s a lamb. e s a injia rubber idiot on the spree e s the on y thing that doesn t give a damn for a regiment o british infantree. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. an ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy with your ayrick ead of air you big black boundin beggar for you break a british square. 
soldier soldier. 
soldier soldier come from the war why don t you march with my true love. we re fresh from off the ship an e s maybe give the slip an you d best go look for a new love. new love. true love. best go look for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war what do you see o my true love. i seed im serve the queen in a suit o rifle green an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do ye see no more o my true love. i seed im runnin by when the shot begin to fly but you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do aught take arm to my true love. i couldn t see the fight for the smoke it lay so white an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll up an tend to my true love. e s lie on the dead with a bullet through be ead an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll down an die with my true love. the pit we dig ll ide im an the twenty men beside im an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do you bring no sign from my true love. i bring a lock of air that e allus use to wear an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war o then i know it s true i ve lose my true love. an i tell you truth again when you ve lose the feel o pain you d best take me for your true love. true love. new love. best take im for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best take im for your true love. 
screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i walk in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule with seventy gunner be ind me an never a beggar forget it s only the pick of the army that handle the dear little pet tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we call round with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you can go where you please you can skid up the tree but you don t get away from the gun. 
they send u along where the road be but mostly we go where they ain t. we d climb up the side of a sign board an trust to the stick o the paint. we ve chivy the naga an looshai we ve give the afreedeeman fit for we fancy ourselves at two thousand we gun that be build in two bit tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
if a man doesn t work why we drill im an teach im ow to behave. if a beggar can t march why we kill im an rattle im into be grave. you ve get to stand up to our business an spring without snatchin or fuss. d you say that you sweat with the field gun. by god you must lather with u tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
the eagle be screamin around u the river s a moanin below we re clear o the pine an the oak scrub we re out on the rock an the snow an the wind be a thin a a whip lash what carry away to the plain the rattle an stamp o the lead mule the jinglety jink o the chain tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
there s a wheel on the horn o the mornin an a wheel on the edge o the pit an a drop into nothin beneath you a straight a a beggar can spit. with the sweat runnin out o your shirt sleeve an the sun off the snow in your face an arf o the men on the drag rope to hold the old gun in er place tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i climb in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule. the monkey can say what our road be the wild goat e know where we pass. 
stand easy you long eared old darlin s. out drag rope. with shrapnel. hold fast tss. tss. 
for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we take tea with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you may hide in the cave they ll be only your graf but you can t get away from the gun. 
gunga din. 
you may talk o gin and beer when you re quarter safe out ere an you re send to penny fight an aldershot it. but when it come to slaughter you will do your work on water an you ll lick the bloomin boot of im that s get it. 
now in injia s sunny clime where i use to spend my time a servin of er majesty the queen of all them blackfaced crew the fine man i know be our regimental bhisti gunga din. 
he be din. din. din. you limpin lump o brick dust gunga din. hi. slippy hitherao. water get it. panee lao. you squidgy nose old idol gunga din. 
the uniform e wear be nothin much before an rather le than arf o that be ind for a piece o twisty rag an a goatskin water bag be all the field equipment e could find. 
when the sweatin troop train lay in a sidin through the day where the eat would make your bloomin eyebrow crawl we shout harry by. till our throat be bricky dry then we wopped im cause e couldn t serve u all. 
it be din. din. din. you eathen where the mischief ave you be. you put some juldee in it or i ll marrow you this minute if you don t fill up my helmet gunga din. 
e would dot an carry one till the long day be do. an e didn t seem to know the use o fear. 
if we charge or break or cut you could bet your bloomin nut e d be waitin fifty pace right flank rear. with be mussick on be back e would skip with our attack an watch u till the bugle make retire an for all be dirty ide e be white clear white inside when e go to tend the wound under fire. it be din. din. din. with the bullet kickin dust spot on the green. 
when the cartridge run out you could hear the front file shout hi. ammunition mule an gunga din. 
i shan t forgit the night when i drop be ind the fight with a bullet where my belt plate should a be. i be chokin mad with thirst an the man that spy me first be our good old grinnin gruntin gunga din. e lift up my ead an he plug me where i bleed an e guv me arf a pint o water green. it be crawlin and it stink but of all the drink i ve drink i m gratefullest to one from gunga din. 
it be din. din. din. ere s a beggar with a bullet through be spleen. e s chawin up the grind an e s kickin all around. for gawd s sake git the water gunga din. 
e carry me away to where a dooli lay an a bullet come an drill the beggar clean. e put me safe inside an just before e die i ope you like your drink sez gunga din. so i ll meet im late on at the place where e be go where it s always double drill and no canteen. e ll be squattin on the coal givin drink to poor damn soul an i ll get a swig in hell from gunga din. yes din. din. din. you lazarushian leather gunga din. though i ve belt you and flay you by the livin gawd that make you you re a good man than i be gunga din. 
bring water swiftly. mr atkins equivalent for o brother. hit you. be quick. water skin. 
oonts. northern india transport train. 
wot make the soldier s eart to @penk wot make im to perspire. it isn t standin up to charge nor lyin down to fire. but it s everlastin waitin on a everlastin road for the commissariat camel an be commissariat load. o the oont o the oont o the commissariat oont. with be silly neck a bobbin like a basket full o snake. we pack im like an idol an you ought to ear im grunt an when we get im load up be bless girth rope break. 
wot make the rear guard swear so ard when night be drorin in an every native follower be shiverin for be skin. it ain t the chanst o be rush by paythans from the ill it s the commissariat camel puttin on be bloomin frill. o the oont o the oont o the hairy scary oont. a trippin over tent rope when we ve get the night alarm. we sock im with a stretcher pole an eads im off in front an when we ve save be bloomin life e chaw our bloomin arm. 
the orse e know above a bite the bullock s but a fool the elephant s a gentleman the battery mule s a mule. but the commissariat cam u el when all be say an do e s a devil an a ostrich an a orphan child in one. o the oont o the oont o the gawd forsake oont. the lumpy umpy ummin bird a singin where e lie e s block the whole division from the rear guard to the front an when we get him up again the beggar go an dy. 
e ll gall an chafe an lame an fight e smell most awful vile. e ll lose isself for ever if you let im stray a mile. e s game to graze the ole day long an owl the ole night through an when e come to greasy grind e split isself in two. o the oont o the oont o the floppin droppin oont. when be long leg give from under an be meltin eye be dim the tribe be up be ind u and the tribe be out in front it ain t no jam for tommy but it s kite an crow for im. 
so when the cruel march be do an when the road be blind an when we see the camp in front an ear the shot be ind ho. then we strip be saddle off and all be woe be past. e think on u that use im so and get revenge at last. o the oont o the oont o the floatin bloatin oont. the late lament camel in the water cut e lie. we keep a mile be ind im an we keep a mile in front but e get into the drinkin cask and then o course we dy. 
camel oo be pronounce like u in bull but by mr. atkins to rhyme with front. 
loot. 
if you ve ever steal a pheasant egg be ind the keeper s back if you ve ever snigged the washin from the line if you ve ever cram a gander in your bloomin aversack you will understand this little song o mine. 
but the service rule be ard an from such we be debar for the same with english moral doe not suit. 
cornet. toot. toot. w y they call a man a robber if e stuff be marchin clobber with the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. lulu. loo. loo. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. bloomin loot. that s the thing to make the boy git up an shoot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again clap em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. ff. whoopee. tear im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
if you ve knock a nigger edgeways when e s thrustin for your life you must leave im very careful where e fell. an may thank your star an gaiter if you didn t feel be knife that you ain t tell off to bury im a well. 
then the sweatin tommies wonder a they spade the beggar under why lootin should be enter a a crime. so if my song you ll ear i will learn you plain an clear ow to pay yourself for fightin overtime. 
chorus. with the loot. 
now remember when you re acking round a gild burma god that be eye be very often precious stone. an if you treat a nigger to a dose o cleanin rod e s like to show you everything e own. 
when e win t prodooce no more pour some water on the floor where you ear it answer ollow to the boot. cornet. toot. toot. when the grind begin to sink shove your baynick down the chink an you re sure to touch the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. 
when from ouse to ouse you re unting you must always work in pair it alves the gain but safe you will find for a single man get bottle on them twisty wisty stair an a woman come and clobs im from be ind. 
when you ve turn em inside out an it seem beyond a doubt a if there weren t enough to dust a flute. cornet. toot. toot. before you sling your ook at the ousetops take a look for it s underneath the tile they ide the loot. 
chorus. ow the loot. 
you can mostly square a sergint an a quartermaster too if you only take the proper way to go. i could never keep my pickin s but i ve learn you all i know an don t you never say i tell you so. 
an now i ll bid good bye for i m gettin rather dry an i see another tunin up to toot. cornet. toot. toot. so ere s good luck to those that wear the widow s clo e an the devil send em all they want o loot. chorus. yes the loot bloomin loot. in the tunic an the mess tin an the boot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again. fff. whoop em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. heeya. sick im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
snarleyow. 
this appened in a battle to a batt ry of the corp which be first among the woman an amazin first in war. an what the bloomin battle be i don t remember now but two s off lead e answer to the name o snarleyow. 
down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
they be movin into action they be need very sore to learn a little schoolin to a native army corp they ad nip against an uphill they be tuckin down the brow when a tricky trundlin roundshot give the knock to snarleyow. 
they cut im loose an leave im e be almost tear in two but he try to follow after a a well train orse should do. e go an foul the limber an the driver s brother squeal. pull up pull up for snarleyow be head s between be eel. 
the driver umped be shoulder for the wheel be goin round an there ain t no stop conductor. when a batt ry s changin grind. sez e. i break the beggar in an very sad i feel but i couldn t pull up not for you your ead between your eel. 
e adn t ardly speak the word before a droppin shell a little right the batt ry an between the section fell. an when the smoke ad clear away before the limber wheel there lay the driver s brother with be ead between be eel. 
then sez the driver s brother an be word be very plain for gawd s own sake get over me an put me out o pain. they saw be wound be mortial an they judge that it be best so they take an drive the limber straight across be back an chest. 
the driver e give nothin cept a little coughin grunt but e swing be or andsome when it come to action front. an if one wheel be juicy you may lay your monday head twas juicy for the nigger when the case begin to spread. 
the moril of this story it be plainly to be see. you avn t get no family when servin of the queen you avn t get no brother father sister wife or son if you want to win your battle take an work your bloomin gun. 
down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
the widow at windsor. 
ave you eard o the widow at windsor with a hairy gold crown on er ead. she a ship on the foam she a million at ome an she pay u poor beggar in red. ow poor beggar in red. 
there s er nick on the cavalry or there s er mark on the medical store an er trooper you ll find with a fair wind be ind that take u to various war. poor beggar. barbarious war. then ere s to the widow at windsor an ere s to the store an the gun the men an the or what make up the force o missis victorier s son. poor beggar. victorier s son. 
walk wide o the widow at windsor for alf o creation she own. we ave buy er the same with the sword an the flame an we ve salt it down with our bone. poor beggar. it s blue with our bone. hand off o the son o the widow hand off o the good in er shop for the king must come down an the emperor frown when the widow at windsor say stop. poor beggar. we re send to say stop. then ere s to the lodge o the widow from the pole to the tropic it run to the lodge that we tile with the rank an the file an open in form with the gun. poor beggar. it s always they gun. 
we ave eard o the widow at windsor it s safe to let er alone. for er sentry we stand by the sea an the land wherever the bugle be blow. poor beggar. an don t we get blow. take old o the wing o the mornin an flop round the earth till you re dead. but you win t get away from the tune that they play to the bloomin old rag over ead. poor beggar. it s ot over ead. then ere s to the son o the widow wherever owever they roam. ere s all they desire an if they require a speedy return to their ome. poor beggar. they ll never see ome. 
belt. 
there be a row in silver street that s near to dublin quay between an irish regiment an english cavalree. it start at revelly an it last on till dark. the first man drop at harrison s the last forninst the park. 
for it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
there be a row in silver street the regiment be out they call u delhi rebel an we answer three about. that draw them like a hornet s nest we meet them good an large the english at the double an the irish at the charge. 
then it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street an i be in it too. we pass the time o day an then the belt go whirraru. i misremember what occur but subsequint the storm a freeman s journal supplemint be all my uniform. 
o it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street they send the polis there the english be too drink to know the irish didn t care. but when they grow impertinint we simultaneous rise till half o them be liffey mud an half be tatthered clo e. 
for it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it might ha rag till now but some one draw his side arm clear an nobody know how. twas hogan take the point an drop. we saw the red blood run. an so we all be murderer that start out in fun. 
while it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street but that put down the shine wid each man whisperin to his next. twas never work o mine. we go away like beat dog an down the street we bore him the poor dumb corpse that couldn t tell the bhoys be sorry for him. 
when it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it isn t over yet for half of u be under guard wid punishment to get. ti all a merricle to me a in the clink i lie. there be a row in silver street begod i wonder why. 
but it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
the young british soldier. 
when the arf make recruity go out to the east e act like a babe an e drink like a beast an e wonder because e be frequent decease ere e s fit for to serve a a soldier. 
serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
now all you recruities what s draft today you shut up your rag box an ark to my lay an i ll sing you a soldier a far a i may. a soldier what s fit for a soldier. 
fit fit fit for a soldier. 
first mind you steer clear o the grog seller hut for they sell you fix bay net that rot out your gut ay drink that ud eat the live steel from your butt an it s bad for the young british soldier. 
bad bad bad for the soldier. 
when the cholera come a it will past a doubt keep out of the wet and don t go on the shout for the sickness get in a the liquor dy out an it crumple the young british soldier. 
crum crum crumple the soldier. 
but the bad o your foe be the sun over ead. you must wear your elmet for all that be say. if e find you uncover e ll knock you down dead an you ll die like a fool of a soldier. 
fool fool fool of a soldier. 
if you re cast for fatigue by a sergeant unkind don t grouse like a woman nor crack on nor blind. be handy and civil and then you will find that it s beer for the young british soldier. 
beer beer beer for the soldier. 
now if you must marry take care she be old a troop sergeant s widow s the nice i m tell for beauty win t help if your ration be cold nor love ain t enough for a soldier. 
nough nough nough for a soldier. 
if the wife should go wrong with a comrade be loath to shoot when you catch em you ll swing on my oath. make im take er and keep er. that s hell for them both an you re shut o the curse of a soldier. 
curse curse curse of a soldier. 
when first under fire an you re wishful to duck don t look nor take eed at the man that be strike be thankful you re livin and trust to your luck and march to your front like a soldier. 
front front front like a soldier. 
when arf of your bullet fly wide in the ditch don t call your martini a cross eye old bitch. she s human a you be you treat her a sich an she ll fight for the young british soldier. 
fight fight fight for the soldier. 
when shakin their bustle like lady so fine the gun o the enemy wheel into line shoot low at the limber an don t mind the shine for noise never startle the soldier. 
start start startle the soldier. 
if your officer s dead and the sergeant look white remember it s ruin to run from a fight. so take open order lie down and sit tight and wait for support like a soldier. 
wait wait wait like a soldier. 
when you re wound and leave on afghanistan s plain and the woman come out to cut up what remain jest roll to your rifle and blow out your brain an go to your gawd like a soldier. 
go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
mandalay. 
by the old moulmein pagoda lookin lazy at the sea there s a burma girl a settin and i know she think o me. for the wind be in the palm tree and the temple bell they say. come you back you british soldier. come you back to mandalay. come you back to mandalay where the old flotilla lay. can t you ear their paddle chunkin from rangoon to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
er petticoat be yaller an er little cap be green an er name be supi yaw lat jes the same a theebaw s queen an i seed her first a smokin of a whackin white cheroot an a wastin christian kiss on an eathen idol s foot. bloomin idol make o mud wot they call the great gawd budd plucky lot she care for idol when i kiss er where she stud. on the road to mandalay. 
when the mist be on the rice field an the sun be droppin slow she d git er little banjo an she d sing kulla lo lo. with er arm upon my shoulder an er cheek agin my cheek we useter watch the steamer an the hathis pilin teak. elephints a pilin teak in the sludgy squdgy creek where the silence ung that eavy you be arf afraid to speak. on the road to mandalay. 
but that s all shove be ind me long ago an fur away an there ain t no bus runnin from the bank to mandalay. an i m learnin ere in london what the ten year soldier tell. if you ve eard the east a callin you win t never eed naught else. no. you win t eed nothin else but them spicy garlic smell an the sunshine an the palm tree an the tinkly temple bell. on the road to mandalay. 
i be sick o wastin leather on these gritty pavin stone an the blast henglish drizzle wake the fever in my bone. tho i walk with fifty ousemaids out chelsea to the strand an they talk a lot o lovin but wot do they understand. beefy face an grubby and law. wot do they understand. i ve a neat sweet maiden in a clean green land. on the road to mandalay. 
ship me somewhere east of suez where the best be like the bad where there aren t no ten commandment an a man can raise a thirst. for the temple bell be callin an it s there that i would be by the old moulmein pagoda look lazy at the sea. on the road to mandalay where the old flotilla lay with our sick beneath the awning when we go to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
troopin. our army in the east. 
troopin troopin troopin to the sea. ere s september come again the six year men be free. o leave the dead be ind u for they cannot come away to where the ship s a coalin up that take u ome today. 
we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. 
ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
the malabar s in arbour with the jumner at er tail an the time expire s waitin of be order for to sail. ho. the weary waitin when on khyber ill we lay but the time expire s waitin of be order ome today. 
they ll turn u out at portsmouth wharf in cold an wet an rain all wearin injian cotton kit but we will not complain. they ll kill u of pneumonia for that s their little way but damn the chill and fever men we re goin ome today. 
troopin troopin winter s round again. see the new draf s pourin in for the old campaign. ho you poor recruities but you ve get to earn your pay what s the last from lunnon lad. we re goin there today. 
troopin troopin give another cheer ere s to english woman an a quart of english beer. the colonel an the regiment an all who ve get to stay gawd s mercy strike em gentle whoop. we re goin ome today. 
we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. 
ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
ford o kabul river. 
kabul town s by kabul river blow the bugle draw the sword there i lef my mate for ever wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river up and brimmin an there s arf a squadron swimmin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town s a blast place blow the bugle draw the sword strewth i sha n t forget be face wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. keep the cross stake beside you an they will surely guide you cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be sun and dust blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha sooner drownded fust stead of im beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. you can ear the or threshin you can ear the men a splashin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be ours to take blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha leave it for be sake im that leave me by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. it s none so bloomin dry there. ain t you never comin nigh there cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town ll go to hell blow the bugle draw the sword fore i see him live an well im the best beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. gawd elp em if they blunder for their boot ll pull em under by the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
turn your orse from kabul town blow the bugle draw the sword im an arf my troop be down down an drownded by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river low an fallin but it ain t no use o callin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
route marchin. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s sunny plain a little front o christmas time an just be ind the rain. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be rowdy dowdy dow. kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. 
oh there s them injian temple to admire when you see there s the peacock round the corner an the monkey up the tree an there s that rummy silver grass a wavin in the wind an the old grand trunk a trailin like a rifle sling be ind. 
while it s best foot first. 
at half past five s revelly an our tent they down must come like a lot of button mushroom when you pick em up at ome. but it s over in a minute an at six the column start while the woman and the kiddy sit an shiver in the cart. 
an it s best foot first. 
oh then it s open order an we light our pipe an sing an we talk about our ration an a lot of other thing an we think o friend in england an we wonder what they re at an ow they would admire for to hear u sling the bat. 
an it s best foot first. 
it s none so bad o sunday when you re lyin at your ease to watch the kite a wheelin round them feather eaded tree for although there ain t no woman yet there ain t no barrick yard so the orficers go shootin an the men they play at card. 
till it s best foot first. 
so ark an eed you rookie which be always grumblin sore there s worse thing than marchin from umballa to cawnpore. an if your eel be blister an they feel to urt like ell you drop some tallow in your sock an that will make em well. 
for it s best foot first. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s coral strand eight undred fightin englishman the colonel and the band. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be rowdy dowdy dow. kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. 
thomas s first and firm conviction be that he be a profound orientalist and a fluent speaker of hindustani. a a matter of fact he depend largely on the sign language. why don t you get on. 
the end. 
* * * * * *. 
volume iii the phantom rickshaw and other ghost story. 
the phantom rickshaw. 
may no ill dream disturb my rest nor power of darkness me molest. even hymn. 
one of the few advantage that india ha over england be a great knowability. after five year service a man be directly or indirectly acquaint with the two or three hundred civilian in his province all the mess of ten or twelve regiment and battery and some fifteen hundred other people of the non official caste. in ten year his knowledge should be double and at the end of twenty he know or know something about every englishman in the empire and may travel anywhere and everywhere without pay hotel bill. 
globe trotter who expect entertainment a a right have even within my memory blunt this open heartedness but none the le today if you belong to the inner circle and be neither a bear nor a black sheep all house be open to you and our small world be very very kind and helpful. 
rickett of kamartha stay with polder of kumaon some fifteen year ago. he mean to stay two night but be knock down by rheumatic fever and for six week disorganize polder s establishment stop polder s work and nearly die in polder s bedroom. polder behave a though he have be place under eternal obligation by rickett and yearly send the little ricketts a box of present and toy. it be the same everywhere. the men who do not take the trouble to conceal from you their opinion that you be an incompetent as and the woman who blacken your character and misunderstand your wife s amusement will work themselves to the bone in your behalf if you fall sick or into serious trouble. 
heatherlegh the doctor keep in addition to his regular practice a hospital on his private account an arrangement of loose box for incurable his friend call it but it be really a sort of fit up shed for craft that have be damage by stress of weather. the weather in india be often sultry and since the tale of brick be always a fix quantity and the only liberty allow be permission to work overtime and get no thank men occasionally break down and become a mix a the metaphor in this sentence. 
heatherlegh be the dear doctor that ever be and his invariable prescription to all his patient be lie low go slow and keep cool. he say that more men be kill by overwork than the importance of this world justify. he maintain that overwork slew pansay who die under his hand about three year ago. he ha of course the right to speak authoritatively and he laugh at my theory that there be a crack in pansay s head and a little bite of the dark world come through and press him to death. pansay go off the handle say heatherlegh after the stimulus of long leave at home. he may or he may not have behave like a blackguard to mr. keith wessington. my notion be that the work of the katabundi settlement run him off his leg and that he take to brood and make much of an ordinary p. &. flirtation. he certainly be engage to miss mannering and she certainly break off the engagement. then he take a feverish chill and all that nonsense about ghost develop. overwork start his illness keep it alight and kill him poor devil. write him off to the system one man to take the work of two and a half men. 
i do not believe this. i use to sit up with pansay sometimes when heatherlegh be call out to patient and i happen to be within claim. the man would make me most unhappy by describe in a low even voice the procession that be always pass at the bottom of his bed. he have a sick man s command of language. 
when he recover i suggest that he should write out the whole affair from begin to end know that ink might assist him to ease his mind. when little boy have learn a new bad word they be never happy till they have chalk it up on a door. and this also be literature. 
he be in a high fever while he be write and the blood and thunder magazine diction he adopt do not calm him. two month afterward he be report fit for duty but in spite of the fact that he be urgently need to help an undermanned commission stagger through a deficit he prefer to die. vow at the last that he be hag ride. i get his manuscript before he die and this be his version of the affair date. 
my doctor tell me that i need rest and change of air. it be not improbable that i shall get both ere long rest that neither the red coat messenger nor the midday gun can break and change of air far beyond that which any homeward bind steamer can give me. in the meantime i be resolve to stay where i be. and in flat defiance of my doctor s order to take all the world into my confidence. you shall learn for yourselves the precise nature of my malady. and shall too judge for yourselves whether any man bear of woman on this weary earth be ever so torment a i. 
speak now a a condemn criminal might speak ere the drop bolt be draw my story wild and hideously improbable a it may appear demand at least attention. that it will ever receive credence i utterly disbelieve. two month ago i should have scout a mad or drink the man who have dare tell me the like. two month ago i be the happy man in india. today from peshawur to the sea there be no one more wretched. my doctor and i be the only two who know this. his explanation be that my brain digestion and eyesight be all slightly affect. give rise to my frequent and persistent delusion. delusion indeed. i call him a fool. but he attend me still with the same unwearied smile the same bland professional manner the same neatly trim red whisker till i begin to suspect that i be an ungrateful evil temper invalid. but you shall judge for yourselves. 
three year ago it be my fortune my great misfortune to sail from gravesend to bombay on return from long leave with one agnes keith wessington wife of an officer on the bombay side. it doe not in the least concern you to know what manner of woman she be. be content with the knowledge that ere the voyage have end both she and i be desperately and unreasoningly in love with one another. heaven know that i can make the admission now without one particle of vanity. in matter of this sort there be always one who give and another who accept. from the first day of our ill omen attachment i be conscious that agnes s passion be a strong a more dominant and if i may use the expression a pure sentiment than mine. whether she recognize the fact then i do not know. afterward it be bitterly plain to both of u. 
arrive at bombay in the spring of the year we go our respective way to meet no more for the next three or four month when my leave and her love take u both to simla. there we spend the season together. and there my fire of straw burn itself out to a pitiful end with the close year. i attempt no excuse. i make no apology. mr. wessington have give up much for my sake and be prepare to give up all. from my own lip in august she learn that i be sick of her presence tire of her company and weary of the sound of her voice. ninety nine woman out of a hundred would have weary of me a i weary of them. seventy five of that number would have promptly avenge themselves by active and obtrusive flirtation with other men. mr. wessington be the hundredth. on her neither my openly express aversion nor the cut brutality with which i garnish our interview have the least effect. jack darling. be her one eternal cuckoo cry. i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. and we ll be good friend again some day. please forgive me jack dear. 
i be the offender and i know it. that knowledge transform my pity into passive endurance and eventually into blind hate the same instinct i suppose which prompt a man to savagely stamp on the spider he ha but half kill. and with this hate in my bosom the season of come to an end. 
next year we meet again at simla she with her monotonous face and timid attempt at reconciliation and i with loathe of her in every fibre of my frame. several time i could not avoid meet her alone. and on each occasion her word be identically the same. still the unreasoning wail that it be all a mistake. and still the hope of eventually make friend. i might have see have i care to look that that hope only be keep her alive. she grow more wan and thin month by month. you will agree with me at least that such conduct would have drive any one to despair. it be uncalled for. childish. unwomanly. i maintain that she be much to blame. and again sometimes in the black fever stricken night watch i have begin to think that i might have be a little kind to her. but that really be a delusion. i could not have continue pretend to love her when i didn t. could i. it would have be unfair to u both. 
last year we meet again on the same term a before. the same weary appeal and the same curt answer from my lip. at least i would make her see how wholly wrong and hopeless be her attempt at resume the old relationship. a the season wear on we fell apart that be to say she find it difficult to meet me for i have other and more absorb interest to attend to. when i think it over quietly in my sick room the season of seem a confuse nightmare wherein light and shade be fantastically intermingle my courtship of little kitty mannering. my hope doubt and fear. our long ride together. my tremble avowal of attachment. her reply. and now and again a vision of a white face flit by in the rickshaw with the black and white livery i once watch for so earnestly. the wave of mr. wessington s gloved hand. and when she meet me alone which be but seldom the irksome monotony of her appeal. i love kitty mannering. honestly heartily love her and with my love for her grow my hatred for agnes. in august kitty and i be engage. the next day i meet those accurse magpie jhampanies at the back of jakko and move by some pass sentiment of pity stop to tell mr. wessington everything. she know it already. 
so i hear you re engage jack dear. then without a moment s pause i m sure it s all a mistake a hideous mistake. we shall be a good friend some day jack a we ever be. 
my answer might have make even a man wince. it cut the die woman before me like the blow of a whip. please forgive me jack. i didn t mean to make you angry. but it s true it s true. 
and mr. wessington break down completely. i turn away and leave her to finish her journey in peace feel but only for a moment or two that i have be an unutterably mean hound. i look back and saw that she have turn her rickshaw with the idea i suppose of overtake me. 
the scene and it surround be photograph on my memory. 
the rain sweep sky. we be at the end of the wet weather. the sodden dingy pine the muddy road and the black powder rive cliff form a gloomy background against which the black and white livery of the jhampanies the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. wessington s down bow golden head stand out clearly. she be hold her handkerchief in her leave hand and be lean hack exhaust against the rickshaw cushion. i turn my horse up a bypath near the sanjowlie reservoir and literally run away. once i fancy i hear a faint call of jack. this may have be imagination. i never stop to verify it. ten minute late i come across kitty on horseback. and in the delight of a long ride with her forget all about the interview. 
a week late mr. wessington die and the inexpressible burden of her existence be remove from my life. i go plainsward perfectly happy. before three month be over i have forget all about her except that at time the discovery of some of her old letter remind me unpleasantly of our bygone relationship. by january i have disinter what be leave of our correspondence from among my scatter belonging and have burn it. at the begin of april of this year i be at simla semi desert simla once more and be deep in lover s talk and walk with kitty. it be decide that we should be marry at the end of june. you will understand therefore that love kitty a i do i be not say too much when i pronounce myself to have be at that time the happy man in india. 
fourteen delightful day pass almost before i notice their flight. 
then arouse to the sense of what be proper among mortal circumstanced a we be i point out to kitty that an engagement ring be the outward and visible sign of her dignity a an engage girl. and that she must forthwith come to hamilton s to be measure for one. up to that moment i give you my word we have completely forget so trivial a matter. to hamilton s we accordingly go on the th of april. remember that whatever my doctor may say to the contrary i be then in perfect health enjoy a well balance mind and an absolute tranquil spirit. kitty and i enter hamilton s shop together and there regardless of the order of affair i measure kitty for the ring in the presence of the amuse assistant. the ring be a sapphire with two diamond. we then ride out down the slope that lead to the combermere bridge and peliti s shop. 
while my waler be cautiously feel his way over the loose shale and kitty be laugh and chatter at my side while all simla that be to say a much of it a have then come from the plain be group round the read room and peliti s veranda i be aware that some one apparently at a vast distance be call me by my christian name. it strike me that i have hear the voice before but when and where i could not at once determine. in the short space it take to cover the road between the path from hamilton s shop and the first plank of the combermere bridge i have think over half a dozen people who might have commit such a solecism and have eventually decide that it must have be sing in my ear. immediately opposite peliti s shop my eye be arrest by the sight of four jharnpanies in magpie livery pull a yellow panel cheap bazar rickshaw. in a moment my mind fly back to the previous season and mr. wessington with a sense of irritation and disgust. be it not enough that the woman be dead and do with without her black and white servitor reappear to spoil the day s happiness. whoever employ them now i think i would call upon and ask a a personal favor to change her jhampanies livery. i would hire the men myself and if necessary buy their coat from off their back. it be impossible to say here what a flood of undesirable memory their presence evoke. 
kitty i cry there be poor mr. wessington s jhampanies turn up again. i wonder who ha them now. 
kitty have know mr. wessington slightly last season and have always be interest in the sickly woman. what. where. she ask. i can t see them anywhere. 
even a she speak her horse swerve from a lade mule throw himself directly in front of the advance rickshaw. i have scarcely time to utter a word of warn when to my unutterable horror horse and rider pass through men and carriage a if they have be thin air. 
what s the matter. cry kitty. what make you call out so foolishly jack. if i be engage i don t want all creation to know about it. there be lot of space between the mule and the veranda. and if you think i can t ride. 
there. 
whereupon wilful kitty set off her dainty little head in the air at a hand gallop in the direction of the bandstand. fully expect a she herself afterward tell me that i should follow her. what be the matter. nothing indeed. either that i be mad or drink or that simla be haunt with devil. i rein in my impatient cob and turn round. the rickshaw have turn too and now stand immediately face me near the leave rail of the combermere bridge. 
jack. jack darling. there be no mistake about the word this time. they ring through my brain a if they have be shout in my ear. it s some hideous mistake i m sure. please forgive me jack and let s be friend again. 
the rickshaw hood have fall back and inside a i hope and pray daily for the death i dread by night sit mr. keith wessington handkerchief in hand and golden head bow on her breast. 
how long i star motionless i do not know. finally i be arouse by my syce take the waler s bridle and ask whether i be ill. from the horrible to the commonplace be but a step. i tumble off my horse and dash half faint into peliti s for a glass of cherry brandy. there two or three couple be gather round the coffee table discuss the gossip of the day. their triviality be more comfort to me just then than the consolation of religion could have be. i plunge into the midst of the conversation at once. chat laugh and jest with a face. when i catch a glimpse of it in a mirror. a white and draw a that of a corpse. three or four mem notice my condition. and evidently set it down to the result of over many peg charitably endeavour to draw me apart from the rest of the lounger. but i refuse to be lead away. i want the company of my kind a a child rush into the midst of the dinner party after a fright in the dark. i must have talk for about ten minute or so though it seem an eternity to me when i hear kitty s clear voice outside inquire for me. in another minute she have enter the shop prepare to roundly upbraid me for fail so signally in my duty. something in my face stop her. 
why jack she cry what have you be do. what ha happen. be you ill. thus drive into a direct lie i say that the sun have be a little too much for me. it be close upon five o clock of a cloudy april afternoon and the sun have be hide all day. i saw my mistake a soon a the word be out of my mouth. attempt to recover it. blunder hopelessly and follow kitty in a regal rage out of door amid the smile of my acquaintance. i make some excuse. i have forget what. on the score of my feel faint. and canter away to my hotel leave kitty to finish the ride by herself. 
in my room i sit down and try calmly to reason out the matter. 
here be i theobald jack pansay a well educate bengal civilian in the year of grace presumably sane certainly healthy drive in terror from my sweetheart s side by the apparition of a woman who have be dead and bury eight month ago. these be fact that i could not blink. nothing be further from my think than any memory of mr. wessington when kitty and i leave hamilton s shop. nothing be more utterly commonplace than the stretch of wall opposite peliti s. it be broad daylight. the road be full of people. and yet here look you in defiance of every law of probability in direct outrage of nature s ordinance there have appear to me a face from the grave. 
kitty s arab have go through the rickshaw. so that my first hope that some woman marvelously like mr. wessington have hire the carriage and the cooly with their old livery be lose. again and again i go round this treadmill of think. and again and again give up baffle and in despair. the voice be a inexplicable a the apparition. i have originally some wild notion of confide it all to kitty. of beg her to marry me at once. and in her arm defy the ghostly occupant of the rickshaw. after all i argue the presence of the rickshaw be in itself enough to prove the existence of a spectral illusion. one may see ghost of men and woman but surely never of cooly and carriage. the whole thing be absurd. fancy the ghost of a hill man. 
next morning i send a penitent note to kitty implore her to overlook my strange conduct of the previous afternoon. my divinity be still very wroth and a personal apology be necessary. i explain with a fluency bear of night long ponder over a falsehood that i have be attack with sudden palpitation of the heart the result of indigestion. this eminently practical solution have it effect. and kitty and i ride out that afternoon with the shadow of my first lie divide u. 
nothing would please her save a canter round jakko. with my nerve still unstring from the previous night i feebly protest against the notion suggest observatory hill jutogh the boileaugunge road anything rather than the jakko round. kitty be angry and a little hurt. so i yield from fear of provoke further misunderstand and we set out together toward chota simla. we walk a great part of the way and accord to our custom canter from a mile or so below the convent to the stretch of level road by the sanjowlie reservoir. the wretched horse appear to fly and my heart beat quick and quick a we near the crest of the ascent. my mind have be full of mr. wessington all the afternoon. and every inch of the jakko road bore witness to our oldtime walk and talk. the bowlder be full of it. the pine sing it aloud overhead. the rain feed torrent giggle and chuckle unseen over the shameful story. and the wind in my ear chant the iniquity aloud. 
a a fit climax in the middle of the level men call the lady mile the horror be await me. no other rickshaw be in sight only the four black and white jhampanies the yellow panel carriage and the golden head of the woman within all apparently just a i have leave them eight month and one fortnight ago. for an instant i fancy that kitty must see what i saw we be so marvelously sympathetic in all thing. her next word undeceive me not a soul in sight. come along jack and i ll race you to the reservoir building. her wiry little arab be off like a bird my waler follow close behind and in this order we dash under the cliff. half a minute bring u within fifty yard of the rickshaw. i pull my waler and fell back a little. the rickshaw be directly in the middle of the road. and once more the arab pass through it my horse follow. jack. jack dear. please forgive me ring with a wail in my ear and after an interval. it s a mistake a hideous mistake. 
i spur my horse like a man possess. when i turn my head at the reservoir work the black and white livery be still wait patiently wait under the grey hillside and the wind bring me a mock echo of the word i have just hear. kitty banter me a good deal on my silence throughout the remainder of the ride. i have be talk up till then wildly and at random. 
to save my life i could not speak afterward naturally and from sanjowlie to the church wisely hold my tongue. 
i be to dine with the mannerings that night and have barely time to canter home to dress. on the road to elysium hill i overhear two men talk together in the dusk. it s a curious thing say one how completely all trace of it disappear. you know my wife be insanely fond of the woman. never could see anything in her myself. and want me to pick up her old rickshaw and cooly if they be to be get for love or money. morbid sort of fancy i call it. but i ve get to do what the memsahib tell me. 
would you believe that the man she hire it from tell me that all four of the men they be brother die of cholera on the way to hardwar poor devil and the rickshaw ha be break up by the man himself. tell me he never use a dead memsahib s rickshaw. spoil his luck. queer notion wasn t it. fancy poor little mr. wessington spoil any one s luck except her own. i laugh aloud at this point. and my laugh jar on me a i utter it. so there be ghost of rickshaw after all and ghostly employment in the other world. how much do mr. wessington give her men. what be their hour. where do they go. 
and for visible answer to my last question i saw the infernal thing block my path in the twilight. the dead travel fast and by short cut unknown to ordinary cooly. i laugh aloud a second time and check my laughter suddenly for i be afraid i be go mad. mad to a certain extent i must have be for i recollect that i rein in my horse at the head of the rickshaw and politely wish mr. wessington good even. her answer be one i know only too well. i listen to the end. and reply that i have hear it all before but should be delight if she have anything further to say. some malignant devil strong than i must have enter into me that even for i have a dim recollection of talk the commonplace of the day for five minute to the thing in front of me. 
mad a a hatter poor devil or drink. max try and get him to come home. 
surely that be not mr. wessington s voice. the two men have overhear me speak to the empty air and have return to look after me. they be very kind and considerate and from their word evidently gather that i be extremely drink. i thank them confusedly and canter away to my hotel there change and arrive at the mannerings ten minute late. i plead the darkness of the night a an excuse. be rebuke by kitty for my unlover like tardiness. and sit down. 
the conversation have already become general. and under cover of it i be address some tender small talk to my sweetheart when i be aware that at the further end of the table a short red whisker man be describe with much broidery his encounter with a mad unknown that even. 
a few sentence convince me that he be repeat the incident of half an hour ago. in the middle of the story he look round for applause a professional story teller do catch my eye and straightway collapse. there be a moment s awkward silence and the red whisker man mutter something to the effect that he have forget the rest thereby sacrifice a reputation a a good story~teller which he have build up for six season past. i bless him from the bottom of my heart and go on with my fish. 
in the fulness of time that dinner come to an end. and with genuine regret i tear myself away from kitty a certain a i be of my own existence that it would be wait for me outside the door. the red whisker man who have be introduce to me a doctor heatherlegh of simla volunteer to bear me company a far a our road lay together. i accept his offer with gratitude. 
my instinct have not deceive me. it lay in readiness in the mall and in what seem devilish mockery of our way with a light head lamp. the red whisker man go to the point at once in a manner that show he bad be think over it all dinner time. 
i say pansay what the deuce be the matter with you this even on the elysium road. the suddenness of the question wrench an answer from me before i be aware. 
that. say i point to it. 
that may be either d. t. or eye for aught i know. now you don t liquor. i saw a much at dinner so it can t be d. t. there s nothing whatever where you re point though you re sweat and tremble with fright like a scar pony. therefore i conclude that it s eye. and i ought to understand all about them. come along home with me. i m on the blessington low road. 
to my intense delight the rickshaw instead of wait for u keep about twenty yard ahead and this too whether we walk trot or canter. in the course of that long night ride i have tell my companion almost a much a i have tell you here. 
well you ve spoil one of the best tale i ve ever lay tongue to say he but i ll forgive you for the sake of what you ve go through. now come home and do what i tell you. and when i ve cure you young man let this be a lesson to you to steer clear of woman and indigestible food till the day of your death. 
the rickshaw keep steady in front. and my red whisker friend seem to derive great pleasure from my account of it exact whereabouts. 
eye pansay all eye brain and stomach. and the great of these three be stomach. you ve too much conceited brain too little stomach and thoroughly unhealthy eye. get your stomach straight and the rest follow. and all that s french for a liver pill. 
i ll take sole medical charge of you from this hour. for you re too interest a phenomenon to be pass over. 
by this time we be deep in the shadow of the blessington low road and the rickshaw come to a dead stop under a pine clothe over hang shale cliff. instinctively i halt too give my reason. heatherlegh rap out an oath. 
now if you think i m go to spend a cold night on the hillside for the sake of a stomach cum brain cum eye illusion lord ha mercy. what s that. 
there be a muffle report a blind smother of dust just in front of u a crack the noise of rent bough and about ten yard of the cliff side pine undergrowth and all slide down into the road below completely block it up. the uproot tree sway and totter for a moment like drunken giant in the gloom and then fell prone among their fellow with a thunderous crash. our two horse stand motionless and sweat with fear. a soon a the rattle of fall earth and stone have subside my companion mutter. man if we d go forward we should have be ten foot deep in our graf by now. there be more thing in heaven and earth. come home pansay and thank god. i want a peg badly. 
we retrace our way over the church ridge and i arrive at dr. heatherlegh s house shortly after midnight. 
his attempt toward my cure commence almost immediately and for a week i never leave his sight. many a time in the course of that week do i bless the good fortune which have throw me in contact with simla s best and kind doctor. day by day my spirit grow light and more equable. day by day too i become more and more incline to fall in with heatherlegh s spectral illusion theory implicate eye brain and stomach. i write to kitty tell her that a slight sprain cause by a fall from my horse keep me indoors for a few day. and that i should be recover before she have time to regret my absence. 
heatherlegh s treatment be simple to a degree. it consist of liver pill cold water bath and strong exercise take in the dusk or at early dawn for a he sagely observe. a man with a sprain ankle doesn t walk a dozen mile a day and your young woman might be wonder if she saw you. 
at the end of the week after much examination of pupil and pulse and strict injunction a to diet and pedestrianism heatherlegh dismiss me a brusquely a he have take charge of me. here be his part benediction. man i can certify to your mental cure and that s a much a to say i ve cure most of your bodily ailment. now get your trap out of this a soon a you can. and be off to make love to miss kitty. 
i be endeavor to express my thank for his kindness. he cut me short. 
don t think i do this because i like you. i gather that you ve behave like a blackguard all through. but all the same you re a phenomenon and a queer a phenomenon a you be a blackguard. no. check me a second time not a rupee please. go out and see if you can find the eye brain and stomach business again. i ll give you a lakh for each time you see it. 
half an hour late i be in the mannerings draw room with kitty drink with the intoxication of present happiness and the fore knowledge that i should never more be trouble with it hideous presence. strong in the sense of my new find security i propose a ride at once. and by preference a canter round jakko. 
never have i felt so well so overladen with vitality and mere animal spirit a i do on the afternoon of the th of april. kitty be delight at the change in my appearance and compliment me on it in her delightfully frank and outspoken manner. we leave the mannerings house together laugh and talk and canter along the chota simla road a of old. 
i be in haste to reach the sanjowlie reservoir and there make my assurance doubly sure. the horse do their best but seem all too slow to my impatient mind. kitty be astonish at my boisterousness. why jack. she cry at last you be behave like a child. what be you do. 
we be just below the convent and from sheer wantonness i be make my waler plunge and curvet across the road a i tickle it with the loop of my rid whip. 
do. i answer. nothing dear. that s just it. if you d be do nothing for a week except lie up you d be a riotous a i. 
sing and murmur in your feastful mirth joy to feel yourself alive. lord over nature lord of the visible earth lord of the sens five. 
my quotation be hardly out of my lip before we have round the corner above the convent. and a few yard further on could see across to sanjowlie. in the centre of the level road stand the black and white livery the yellow panel rickshaw and mr. keith wessington. i pull up look rub my eye and i believe must have say something. the next thing i know be that i be lie face downward on the road with kitty kneel above me in tear. 
ha it go child. i gasp. kitty only weep more bitterly. 
ha what go jack dear. what doe it all mean. there must be a mistake somewhere jack. a hideous mistake. her last word bring me to my foot mad rave for the time be. 
yes there be a mistake somewhere i repeat a hideous mistake. come and look at it. 
i have an indistinct idea that i drag kitty by the wrist along the road up to where it stand and implore her for pity s sake to speak to it. to tell it that we be betroth. that neither death nor hell could break the tie between u. and kitty only know how much more to the same effect. now and again i appeal passionately to the terror in the rickshaw to bear witness to all i have say and to release me from a torture that be kill me. a i talk i suppose i must have tell kitty of my old relation with mr. wessington for i saw her listen intently with white face and blaze eye. 
thank you mr. pansay she say that s quite enough. syce ghora lao. 
the syces impassive a oriental always be have come up with the recapture horse. and a kitty spring into her saddle i catch hold of the bridle entreat her to hear me out and forgive. my answer be the cut of her rid whip across my face from mouth to eye and a word or two of farewell that even now i cannot write down. so i judge and judge rightly that kitty know all. and i stagger back to the side of the rickshaw. my face be cut and bleed and the blow of the rid whip have raise a livid blue wheal on it. i have no self respect. just then heatherlegh who must have be follow kitty and me at a distance canter up. 
doctor i say point to my face here s miss mannering s signature to my order of dismissal and i ll thank you for that lakh a soon a convenient. 
heatherlegh s face even in my abject misery move me to laughter. 
i ll stake my professional reputation he begin. 
don t be a fool i whisper. i ve lose my life s happiness and you d good take me home. 
a i speak the rickshaw be go. then i lose all knowledge of what be pass. the crest of jakko seem to heave and roll like the crest of a cloud and fall in upon me. 
seven day late. on the th of may that be to say. i be aware that i be lie in heatherlegh s room a weak a a little child. heatherlegh be watch me intently from behind the paper on his write table. his first word be not encourage. but i be too far spend to be much move by them. 
here s miss kitty ha send back your letter. you correspond a good deal you young people. here s a packet that look like a ring and a cheerful sort of a note from mannering papa which i ve take the liberty of read and burn. the old gentleman s not please with you. 
and kitty. i ask dully. 
rather more draw than her father from what she say. by the same token you must have be let out any number of queer reminiscence just before i meet you. say that a man who would have behave to a woman a you do to mr. wessington ought to kill himself out of sheer pity for his kind. she s a hot head little virago your mash. will have it too that you be suffer from d. t. when that row on the jakko road turn up. say she ll die before she ever speak to you again. 
i groan and turn over to the other side. 
now you ve get your choice my friend. this engagement ha to be break off. and the mannerings don t want to be too hard on you. be it break through d. t. or epileptic fit. sorry i can t offer you a good exchange unless you d prefer hereditary insanity. say the word and i ll tell em it s fit. all simla know about that scene on the lady mile. come. i ll give you five minute to think over it. 
during those five minute i believe that i explore thoroughly the low circle of the inferno which it be permit man to tread on earth. and at the same time i myself be watch myself falter through the dark labyrinth of doubt misery and utter despair. i wonder a heatherlegh in his chair might have wonder which dreadful alternative i should adopt. presently i hear myself answer in a voice that i hardly recognize they re confoundedly particular about morality in these part. give em fit heatherlegh and my love. now let me sleep a bite long. 
then my two self join and it be only i. half craze devil drive i. that toss in my bed trace step by step the history of the past month. 
but i be in simla i keep repeat to myself. i jack pansay be in simla and there be no ghost here. it s unreasonable of that woman to pretend there be. why couldn t agnes have leave me alone. i never do her any harm. it might just a well have be me a agnes. only i d never have come hack on purpose to kill her. why can t i be leave alone leave alone and happy. 
it be high noon when i first awake and the sun be low in the sky before i sleep sleep a the torture criminal sleep on his rack too wear to feel further pain. 
next day i could not leave my bed. heatherlegh tell me in the morning that he have receive an answer from mr. mannering and that thank to his. heatherlegh s. friendly office the story of my affliction have travel through the length and breadth of simla where i be on all side much pity. 
and that s rather more than you deserve he conclude pleasantly though the lord know you ve be go through a pretty severe mill. never mind. we ll cure you yet you perverse phenomenon. 
i decline firmly to be cure. you ve be much too good to me already old man say i. but i don t think i need trouble you further. 
in my heart i know that nothing heatherlegh could do would lighten the burden that have be lay upon me. 
with that knowledge come also a sense of hopeless impotent rebellion against the unreasonableness of it all. there be score of men no good than i whose punishment have at least be reserve for another world. and i felt that it be bitterly cruelly unfair that i alone should have be single out for so hideous a fate. this mood would in time give place to another where it seem that the rickshaw and i be the only reality in a world of shadow. that kitty be a ghost. that mannering heatherlegh and all the other men and woman i know be all ghost. and the great grey hill themselves but vain shadow devise to torture me. from mood to mood i toss backward and forward for seven weary day. my body grow daily strong and strong until the bedroom look glass tell me that i have return to everyday life and be a other men once more. curiously enough my face show no sign of the struggle i have go through. it be pale indeed but a expressionless and commonplace a ever. i have expect some permanent alteration visible evidence of the disease that be eat me away. i find nothing. 
on the th of may i leave heatherlegh s house at eleven o clock in the morning. and the instinct of the bachelor drive me to the club. there i find that every man know my story a tell by heatherlegh and be in clumsy fashion abnormally kind and attentive. nevertheless i recognize that for the rest of my natural life i should be among but not of my fellow. and i envy very bitterly indeed the laugh cooly on the mall below. i lunch at the club and at four o clock wander aimlessly down the mall in the vague hope of meet kitty. close to the band stand the black and white livery join me. and i hear mr. wessington s old appeal at my side. i have be expect this ever since i come out. and be only surprise at her delay. the phantom rickshaw and i go side by side along the chota simla road in silence. close to the bazar kitty and a man on horseback overtake and pass u. for any sign she give i might have be a dog in the road. she do not even pay me the compliment of quicken her pace. though the rainy afternoon have serve for an excuse. 
so kitty and her companion and i and my ghostly light o love creep round jakko in couple. the road be stream with water. the pine drip like roof pipe on the rock below and the air be full of fine drive rain. two or three time i find myself say to myself almost aloud. i m jack pansay on leave at simla at simla. everyday ordinary simla. i mustn t forget that i mustn t forget that. then i would try to recollect some of the gossip i have hear at the club. the price of so and so s horse anything in fact that relate to the workaday anglo indian world i know so well. i even repeat the multiplication table rapidly to myself to make quite sure that i be not take leave of my sens. it give me much comfort. and must have prevent my hear mr. wessington for a time. 
once more i wearily climb the convent slope and enter the level road. here kitty and the man start off at a canter and i be leave alone with mr. wessington. agnes say i will you put back your hood and tell me what it all mean. the hood drop noiselessly and i be face to face with my dead and bury mistress. she be wear the dress in which i have last see her alive. carry the same tiny handkerchief in her right hand. and the same cardcase in her leave. a woman eight month dead with a cardcase. i have to pin myself down to the multiplication table and to set both hand on the stone parapet of the road to assure myself that that at least be real. 
agnes i repeat for pity s sake tell me what it all mean. mr. wessington lean forward with that odd quick turn of the head i use to know so well and speak. 
if my story have not already so madly overleap the hound of all human belief i should apologize to you now. a i know that no one no not even kitty for whom it be write a some sort of justification of my conduct will believe me i will go on. mr. wessington speak and i walk with her from the sanjowlie road to the turn below the commander in chief s house a i might walk by the side of any live woman s rickshaw deep in conversation. the second and most torment of my mood of sickness have suddenly lay hold upon me and like the prince in tennyson s poem i seem to move amid a world of ghost. there have be a garden party at the commander in chief s and we two join the crowd of homeward bind folk. a i saw them then it seem that they be the shadow impalpable fantastic shadow that divide for mr. wessington s rickshaw to pas through. what we say during the course of that weird interview i cannot indeed i dare not tell. heatherlegh s comment would have be a short laugh and a remark that i have be mash a brain eye and stomach chimera. it be a ghastly and yet in some indefinable way a marvelously dear experience. could it be possible i wonder that i be in this life to woo a second time the woman i have kill by my own neglect and cruelty. 
i meet kitty on the homeward road a shadow among shadow. 
if i be to describe all the incident of the next fortnight in their order my story would never come to an end. and your patience would he exhaust. morning after morning and even after even the ghostly rickshaw and i use to wander through simla together. wherever i go there the four black and white livery follow me and bore me company to and from my hotel. at the theatre i find them amid the crowd of yell jhampanies. outside the club veranda after a long even of whist. at the birthday ball wait patiently for my reappearance. and in broad daylight when i go call. save that it cast no shadow the rickshaw be in every respect a real to look upon a one of wood and iron. more than once indeed i have have to check myself from warn some hard rid friend against canter over it. more than once i have walk down the mall deep in conversation with mr. wessington to the unspeakable amazement of the passer by. 
before i have be out and about a week i learn that the fit theory have be discard in favor of insanity. however i make no change in my mode of life. i call ride and din out a freely a ever. i have a passion for the society of my kind which i have never felt before. i hunger to be among the reality of life. and at the same time i felt vaguely unhappy when i have be separate too long from my ghostly companion. it would be almost impossible to describe my vary mood from the th of may up to today. 
the presence of the rickshaw fill me by turn with horror blind fear a dim sort of pleasure and utter despair. i dare not leave simla. and i know that my stay there be kill me. i know moreover that it be my destiny to die slowly and a little every day. my only anxiety be to get the penance over a quietly a might be. alternately i hunger for a sight of kitty and watch her outrageous flirtation with my successor to speak more accurately my successor with amuse interest. she be a much out of my life a i be out of hers. by day i wander with mr. wessington almost content. by night i implore heaven to let me return to the world a i use to know it. above all these vary mood lay the sensation of dull numb wonder that the see and the unseen should mingle so strangely on this earth to hound one poor soul to it grave. * * * * * * * * *. 
august. heatherlegh ha be indefatigable in his attendance on me. and only yesterday tell me that i ought to send in an application for sick leave. an application to escape the company of a phantom. a request that the government would graciously permit me to get rid of five ghost and an airy rickshaw by go to england. heatherlegh s proposition move me to almost hysterical laughter. i tell him that i should await the end quietly at simla. and i be sure that the end be not far off. believe me that i dread it advent more than any word can say. and i torture myself nightly with a thousand speculation a to the manner of my death. 
shall i die in my bed decently and a an english gentleman should die. or in one last walk on the mall will my soul be wrench from me to take it place forever and ever by the side of that ghastly phantasm. shall i return to my old lose allegiance in the next world or shall i meet agnes loathe her and bind to her side through all eternity. shall we two hover over the scene of our life till the end of time. a the day of my death draw near the intense horror that all live flesh feel toward escape spirit from beyond the grave grow more and more powerful. it be an awful thing to go down quick among the dead with scarcely one half of your life complete. it be a thousand time more awful to wait a i do in your midst for i know not what unimaginable terror. pity me at least on the score of my delusion for i know you will never believe what i have write here yet a surely a ever a man be do to death by the power of darkness i be that man. 
in justice too pity her. for a surely a ever woman be kill by man i kill mr. wessington. and the last portion of my punishment be ever now upon me. 
* * * * * * *. 
my own true ghost story. 
a i come through the desert thus it be a i come through the desert. the city of dreadful night. 
somewhere in the other world where there be book and picture and play and shop window to look at and thousand of men who spend their life in build up all four life a gentleman who write real story about the real inside of people. and his name be mr. walter besant. but he will insist upon treat his ghost he ha publish half a workshopful of them with levity. he make his ghost seer talk familiarly and in some case flirt outrageously with the phantom. you may treat anything from a viceroy to a vernacular paper with levity. but you must behave reverently toward a ghost and particularly an indian one. 
there be in this land ghost who take the form of fat cold pobby corps and hide in tree near the roadside till a traveler pass. then they drop upon his neck and remain. there be also terrible ghost of woman who have die in child bed. these wander along the pathway at dusk or hide in the crop near a village and call seductively. but to answer their call be death in this world and the next. their foot be turn backward that all sober men may recognize them. there be ghost of little child who have be throw into well. these haunt well curb and the fringe of jungle and wail under the star or catch woman by the wrist and beg to be take up and carry. these and the corpse ghost however be only vernacular article and do not attack sahib. no native ghost ha yet be authentically report to have frighten an englishman. but many english ghost have scar the life out of both white and black. 
nearly every other station own a ghost. there be say to be two at simla not count the woman who blow the bellow at syree dak bungalow on the old road. mussoorie ha a house haunt of a very lively thing. a white lady be suppose to do night watchman round a house in lahore. dalhousie say that one of her house repeat on autumn evening all the incident of a horrible horse and precipice accident. murree ha a merry ghost and now that she ha be sweep by cholera will have room for a sorrowful one. there be officer quarter in mian mir whose door open without reason and whose furniture be guarantee to creak not with the heat of june but with the weight of invisibles who come to lounge in the chair. peshawur posse house that none will willingly rent. and there be something not fever wrong with a big bungalow in allahabad. the old province simply bristle with haunt house and march phantom army along their main thoroughfare. 
some of the dak bungalow on the grand trunk road have handy little cemetery in their compound witness to the change and chance of this mortal life in the day when men drive from calcutta to the northwest. these bungalow be objectionable place to put up in. they be generally very old always dirty while the khansamah be a ancient a the bungalow. he either chatter senilely or fall into the long trance of age. in both mood he be useless. if you get angry with him he refer to some sahib dead and bury these thirty year and say that when he be in that sahib s service not a khansamah in the province could touch him. then he jabber and mow and tremble and fidget among the dish and you repent of your irritation. 
in these dak bungalow ghost be most likely to be find and when find they should be make a note of. not long ago it be my business to live in dak bungalow. i never inhabit the same house for three night run and grow to be learn in the breed. i live in government build one with red brick wall and rail ceiling an inventory of the furniture post in every room and an excite snake at the threshold to give welcome. i live in convert one old house officiate a dak bungalow where nothing be in it proper place and there wasn t even a fowl for dinner. i live in second hand palace where the wind blow through open work marble tracery just a uncomfortably a through a break pane. i live in dak bungalow where the last entry in the visitor book be fifteen month old and where they slash off the curry kid s head with a sword. it be my good luck to meet all sort of men from sober travel missionary and deserter fly from british regiment to drunken loafer who throw whisky bottle at all who pass. and my still great good fortune just to escape a maternity case. see that a fair proportion of the tragedy of our life out here act itself in dak bungalow i wonder that i have meet no ghost. a ghost that would voluntarily hang about a dak bungalow would be mad of course. but so many men have die mad in dak bungalow that there must be a fair percentage of lunatic ghost. 
in due time i find my ghost or ghost rather for there be two of them. up till that hour i have sympathize with mr. besant s method of handle them a show in the strange case of mr. lucraft and other story. i be now in the opposition. we will call the bungalow katmal dak bungalow. but that be the small part of the horror. a man with a sensitive hide ha no right to sleep in dak bungalow. he should marry. katmal dak bungalow be old and rotten and unrepaired. the floor be of wear brick the wall be filthy and the window be nearly black with grime. it stand on a bypath largely use by native sub deputy assistant of all kind from finance to forest. but real sahib be rare. the khansamah who be nearly bend double with old age say so. 
when i arrive there be a fitful undecided rain on the face of the land accompany by a restless wind and every gust make a noise like the rattle of dry bone in the stiff toddy palm outside. the khansamah completely lose his head on my arrival. he have serve a sahib once. do i know that sahib. he give me the name of a well know man who ha be bury for more than a quarter of a century and show me an ancient daguerreotype of that man in his prehistoric youth. i have see a steel engrave of him at the head of a double volume of memoir a month before and i felt ancient beyond tell. 
the day shut in and the khansamah go to get me food. he do not go through the pretense of call it khana man s victual. he say ratub and that mean among other thing grub dog s ration. there be no insult in his choice of the term. he have forget the other word i suppose. 
while he be cut up the dead body of animal i settle myself down after explore the dak bungalow. there be three room beside my own which be a corner kennel each give into the other through dingy white door fasten with long iron bar. the bungalow be a very solid one but the partition wall of the room be almost jerry build in their flimsiness. every step or bang of a trunk echo from my room down the other three and every footfall come back tremulously from the far wall. for this reason i shut the door. there be no lamp only candle in long glass shade. an oil wick be set in the bathroom. 
for bleak unadulterated misery that dak bungalow be the bad of the many that i have ever set foot in. there be no fireplace and the window would not open. so a brazier of charcoal would have be useless. the rain and the wind splash and gurgle and moan round the house and the toddy palm rattle and roar. 
half a dozen jackal go through the compound sing and a hyena stand afar off and mock them. a hyena would convince a sadducee of the resurrection of the dead the bad sort of dead. then come the ratub a curious meal half native and half english in composition with the old khansamah babble behind my chair about dead and go english people and the wind blow candle play shadow bo peep with the bed and the mosquito curtain. it be just the sort of dinner and even to make a man think of every single one of his past sin and of all the others that he intend to commit if he live. 
sleep for several hundred reason be not easy. the lamp in the bath room throw the most absurd shadow into the room and the wind be begin to talk nonsense. 
just when the reason be drowsy with blood suck i hear the regular let u take and heave him over grunt of doolie bearer in the compound. first one doolie come in then a second and then a third. i hear the doolies dump on the grind and the shutter in front of my door shake. that s some one try to come in i say. but no one speak and i persuade myself that it be the gusty wind. the shutter of the room next to mine be attack fling back and the inner door open. that s some sub deputy assistant i say and he ha bring his friend with him. now they ll talk and spit and smoke for an hour. 
but there be no voice and no footstep. no one be put his luggage into the next room. the door shut and i thank providence that i be to be leave in peace. but i be curious to know where the doolies have go. i get out of bed and look into the darkness. there be never a sign of a doolie. just a i be get into bed again i hear in the next room the sound that no man in his sens can possibly mistake the whir of a billiard ball down the length of the slate when the striker be string for break. no other sound be like it. a minute afterwards there be another whir and i get into bed. i be not frighten indeed i be not. i be very curious to know what have become of the doolies. i jump into bed for that reason. 
next minute i hear the double click of a cannon and my hair sit up. it be a mistake to say that hair stand up. the skin of the head tighten and you can feel a faint prickly bristle all over the scalp. that be the hair sit up. 
there be a whir and a click and both sound could only have be make by one thing a billiard ball. i argue the matter out at great length with myself. and the more i argue the le probable it seem that one bed one table and two chair all the furniture of the room next to mine could so exactly duplicate the sound of a game of billiards. after another cannon a three cushion one to judge by the whir i argue no more. i have find my ghost and would have give world to have escape from that dak bungalow. i listen and with each listen the game grow clear. 
there be whir on whir and click on click. sometimes there be a double click and a whir and another click. beyond any sort of doubt people be play billiards in the next room. and the next room be not big enough to hold a billiard table. 
between the pause of the wind i hear the game go forward stroke after stroke. i try to believe that i could not hear voice. but that attempt be a failure. 
do you know what fear be. not ordinary fear of insult injury or death but abject quiver dread of something that you cannot see fear that dry the inside of the mouth and half of the throat fear that make you sweat on the palm of the hand and gulp in order to keep the uvula at work. this be a fine fear a great cowardice and must be felt to be appreciate. the very improbability of billiards in a dak bungalow prove the reality of the thing. no man drink or sober could imagine a game at billiards or invent the spit crack of a screw cannon. 
a severe course of dak bungalow ha this disadvantage it breed infinite credulity. if a man say to a confirm dak bungalow haunter. there be a corpse in the next room and there s a mad girl in the next but one and the woman and man on that camel have just elope from a place sixty mile away the hearer would not disbelieve because he would know that nothing be too wild grotesque or horrible to happen in a dak bungalow. 
this credulity unfortunately extend to ghost. a rational person fresh from his own house would have turn on his side and sleep. i do not. so surely a i be give up a a bad carcass by the score of thing in the bed because the bulk of my blood be in my heart so surely do i hear every stroke of a long game at billiards play in the echo room behind the iron bar door. my dominant fear be that the player might want a marker. it be an absurd fear. because creature who could play in the dark would be above such superfluity. i only know that that be my terror. and it be real. 
after a long long while the game stop and the door bang. i sleep because i be dead tire. otherwise i should have prefer to have keep awake. not for everything in asia would i have drop the door bar and peer into the dark of the next room. 
when the morning come i consider that i have do well and wisely and inquire for the mean of departure. 
by the way khansamah i say what be those three doolies do in my compound in the night. 
there be no doolies say the khansamah. 
i go into the next room and the daylight stream through the open door. i be immensely brave. i would at that hour have play black pool with the owner of the big black pool down below. 
ha this place always be a dak bungalow. i ask. 
no say the khansamah. ten or twenty year ago i have forget how long it be a billiard room. 
a how much. 
a billiard room for the sahib who build the railway. i be khansamah then in the big house where all the railway sahib live and i use to come across with brandy shrab. these three room be all one and they hold a big table on which the sahib play every even. but the sahib be all dead now and the railway run you say nearly to kabul. 
do you remember anything about the sahib. 
it be long ago but i remember that one sahib a fat man and always angry be play here one night and he say to me. mangal khan brandy pani do and i fill the glass and he bend over the table to strike and his head fell low and low till it hit the table and his spectacle come off and when we the sahib and i myself run to lift him he be dead. i help to carry him out. aha he be a strong sahib. but he be dead and i old mangal khan be still live by your favor. 
that be more than enough. i have my ghost a firsthand authenticate article. i would write to the society for psychical research i would paralyze the empire with the news. but i would first of all put eighty mile of assess crop land between myself and that dak bungalow before nightfall. the society might send their regular agent to investigate late on. 
i go into my own room and prepare to pack after note down the fact of the case. a i smoke i hear the game begin again with a miss in balk this time for the whir be a short one. 
the door be open and i could see into the room. click c ick. that be a cannon. i enter the room without fear for there be sunlight within and a fresh breeze without. the unseen game be go on at a tremendous rate. and well it might when a restless little rat be run to and fro inside the dingy ceiling cloth and a piece of loose window sash be make fifty break off the window bolt a it shake in the breeze. 
impossible to mistake the sound of billiard ball. impossible to mistake the whir of a ball over the slate. but i be to be excuse. even when i shut my enlighten eye the sound be marvelously like that of a fast game. 
enter angrily the faithful partner of my sorrow kadir baksh. 
this bungalow be very bad and low caste. no wonder the presence be disturb and be speckle. three set of doolie bearer come to the bungalow late last night when i be sleep outside and say that it be their custom to rest in the room set apart for the english people. what honor ha the khansamah. they try to enter but i tell them to go. no wonder if these oorias have be here that the presence be sorely spot. it be shame and the work of a dirty man. 
kadir baksh do not say that he have take from each gang two anna for rent in advance and then beyond my earshot have beat them with the big green umbrella whose use i could never before divine. but kadir baksh ha no notion of morality. 
there be an interview with the khansamah but a he promptly lose his head wrath give place to pity and pity lead to a long conversation in the course of which he put the fat engineer sahib s tragic death in three separate station two of them fifty mile away. the third shift be to calcutta and there the sahib die while drive a dogcart. 
if i have encourage him the khansamah would have wander all through bengal with his corpse. 
i do not go away a soon a i intend. i stay for the night while the wind and the rat and the sash and the window bolt play a ding dong hundred and fifty up. then the wind run out and the billiards stop and i felt that i have ruin my one genuine hall mark ghost story. 
have i only stop at the proper time i could have make anything out of it. 
that be the bitter think of all. 
the strange ride of morrowbie juke. 
alive or dead there be no other way. native proverb. 
there be a the conjurer say no deception about this tale. juke by accident stumble upon a village that be well know to exist though he be the only englishman who ha be there. a somewhat similar institution use to flourish on the outskirt of calcutta and there be a story that if you go into the heart of bikanir which be in the heart of the great indian desert you shall come across not a village but a town where the dead who do not die but may not live have establish their headquarter. and since it be perfectly true that in the same desert be a wonderful city where all the rich money lender retreat after they have make their fortune. fortune so vast that the owner cannot trust even the strong hand of the government to protect them but take refuge in the waterless sand. and drive sumptuous c spring barouche and buy beautiful girl and decorate their palace with gold and ivory and minton tile and mother of pearl i do not see why juke s tale should not be true. he be a civil engineer with a head for plan and distance and thing of that kind and he certainly would not take the trouble to invent imaginary trap. he could earn more by do his legitimate work. he never vary the tale in the tell and grow very hot and indignant when he think of the disrespectful treatment he receive. he write this quite straightforwardly at first but he ha since touch it up in place and introduce moral reflection thus. 
in the begin it all arise from a slight attack of fever. my work necessitate my be in camp for some month between pakpattan and muharakpur a desolate sandy stretch of country a every one who ha have the misfortune to go there may know. my cooly be neither more nor le exasperate than other gang and my work demand sufficient attention to keep me from mop have i be incline to so unmanly a weakness. 
on the d december i felt a little feverish. there be a full moon at the time and in consequence every dog near my tent be bay it. the brute assemble in two and three and drive me frantic. a few day previously i have shoot one loud mouth singer and suspend his carcass in terrorem about fifty yard from my tent door. but his friend fell upon fight for and ultimately devour the body. and a it seem to me sing their hymn of thanksgiving afterward with renew energy. 
the light heartedness which accompany fever act differently on different men. my irritation give way after a short time to a fix determination to slaughter one huge black and white beast who have be foremost in song and first in flight throughout the even. thank to a shake hand and a giddy head i have already miss him twice with both barrel of my shoot gun when it strike me that my best plan would be to ride him down in the open and finish him off with a hog spear. this of course be merely the semi delirious notion of a fever patient. but i remember that it strike me at the time a be eminently practical and feasible. 
i therefore order my groom to saddle pornic and bring him round quietly to the rear of my tent. when the pony be ready i stand at his head prepare to mount and dash out a soon a the dog should again lift up his voice. pornic by the way have not be out of his picket for a couple of day. the night air be crisp and chilly. and i be arm with a specially long and sharp pair of persuader with which i have be rouse a sluggish cob that afternoon. you will easily believe then that when he be let go he go quickly. in one moment for the brute bolt a straight a a die the tent be leave far behind and we be fly over the smooth sandy soil at race speed. 
in another we have pass the wretched dog and i have almost forget why it be that i have take the horse and hogspear. 
the delirium of fever and the excitement of rapid motion through the air must have take away the remnant of my sens. i have a faint recollection of stand upright in my stirrup and of brandish my hog spear at the great white moon that look down so calmly on my mad gallop. and of shout challenge to the camel thorn bush a they whiz past. once or twice i believe i sway forward on pornic s neck and literally hang on by my spur a the mark next morning show. 
the wretched beast go forward like a thing possess over what seem to be a limitless expanse of moonlit sand. next i remember the grind rise suddenly in front of u and a we top the ascent i saw the water of the sutlej shin like a silver bar below. then pornic blunder heavily on his nose and we roll together down some unseen slope. 
i must have lose consciousness for when i recover i be lie on my stomach in a heap of soft white sand and the dawn be begin to break dimly over the edge of the slope down which i have fall. a the light grow strong i saw that i be at the bottom of a horse shoe shape crater of sand open on one side directly on to the shoal of the sutlej. my fever have altogether leave me and with the exception of a slight dizziness in the head i felt no have effect from the fall over night. 
pornic who be stand a few yard away be naturally a good deal exhaust but have not hurt himself in the least. his saddle a favorite polo one be much knock about and have be twist under his belly. it take me some time to put him to right and in the meantime i have ample opportunity of observe the spot into which i have so foolishly drop. 
at the risk of be consider tedious i must describe it at length. inasmuch a an accurate mental picture of it peculiarity will be of material assistance in enable the reader to understand what follow. 
imagine then a i have say before a horseshoe shape crater of sand with steeply grade sand wall about thirty five foot high. the slope i fancy must have be about degree. this crater enclose a level piece of grind about fifty yard long by thirty at it broad part with a crude well in the centre. round the bottom of the crater about three foot from the level of the grind proper run a series of eighty three semi circular ovoid square and multilateral hole all about three foot at the mouth. each hole on inspection show that it be carefully shore internally with drift wood and bamboo and over the mouth a wooden drip board project like the peak of a jockey s cap for two foot. no sign of life be visible in these tunnel but a most sicken stench pervade the entire amphitheatre a stench foul than any which my wandering in indian village have introduce me to. 
have remount pornic who be a anxious a i to get back to camp i ride round the base of the horseshoe to find some place whence an exit would be practicable. the inhabitant whoever they might be have not think fit to put in an appearance so i be leave to my own device. my first attempt to rush pornic up the steep sand bank show me that i have fall into a trap exactly on the same model a that which the ant lion set for it prey. at each step the shift sand pour down from above in ton and rattle on the drip board of the hole like small shoot. a couple of ineffectual charge send u both roll down to the bottom half choke with the torrent of sand. and i be constrain to turn my attention to the river bank. 
here everything seem easy enough. the sand hill run down to the river edge it be true but there be plenty of shoal and shallow across which i could gallop pornic and find my way back to terra firma by turn sharply to the right or leave. a i lead pornic over the sand i be startle by the faint pop of a rifle across the river. and at the same moment a bullet drop with a sharp whit close to pornic s head. 
there be no mistake the nature of the missile a regulation martini henry picket. about five hundred yard away a country boat be anchor in midstream. and a jet of smoke drift away from it bow in the still morning air show me whence the delicate attention have come. be ever a respectable gentleman in such an impasse. the treacherous sand slope allow no escape from a spot which i have visit most involuntarily and a promenade on the river frontage be the signal for a bombardment from some insane native in a boat. i m afraid that i lose my temper very much indeed. 
another bullet remind me that i have good save my breath to cool my porridge. and i retreat hastily up the sand and back to the horseshoe where i saw that the noise of the rifle have draw sixty five human being from the badger hole which i have up till that point suppose to be untenanted. i find myself in the midst of a crowd of spectator about forty men twenty woman and one child who could not have be more than five year old. they be all scantily clothe in that salmon color cloth which one associate with hindu mendicant and at first sight give me the impression of a band of loathsome fakir. the filth and repulsiveness of the assembly be beyond all description and i shudder to think what their life in the badger hole must be. 
even in these day when local self government ha destroy the great part of a native s respect for a sahib i have be accustom to a certain amount of civility from my inferior and on approach the crowd naturally expect that there would be some recognition of my presence. a a matter of fact there be. but it be by no mean what i have look for. 
the rag crew actually laugh at me such laughter i hope i may never hear again. they cackle yell whistle and howl a i walk into their midst. some of them literally throw themselves down on the grind in convulsion of unholy mirth. in a moment i have let go pornic s head and. irritate beyond expression at the morning s adventure commence cuff those near to me with all the force i could. the wretch drop under my blow like nine pin and the laughter give place to wail for mercy. while those yet untouched clasp me round the knee implore me in all sort of uncouth tongue to spare them. 
in the tumult and just when i be feel very much ashamed of myself for have thus easily give way to my temper a thin high voice murmur in english from behind my shoulder. sahib. sahib. do you not know me. sahib it be gunga das the telegraph master. 
i spin round quickly and face the speaker. 
gunga das. i have of course no hesitation in mention the man s real name. i have know four year before a a deccanee brahmin loan by the punjab government to one of the khalsia state. he be in charge of a branch telegraph office there and when i have last meet him be a jovial full stomach portly government servant with a marvelous capacity for make have pun in english a peculiarity which make me remember him long after i have forget his service to me in his official capacity. it be seldom that a hindu make english pun. 
now however the man be change beyond all recognition. caste mark stomach slate color continuation and unctuous speech be all go. i look at a wither skeleton turban le and almost naked with long mat hair and deep set codfish eye. 
but for a crescent shape scar on the leave cheek the result of an accident for which i be responsible i should never have know him. but it be indubitably gunga das and for this i be thankful an english speak native who might at least tell me the mean of all that i have go through that day. 
the crowd retreat to some distance a i turn toward the miserable figure and order him to show me some method of escape from the crate. he hold a freshly pluck crow in his hand and in reply to my question climb slowly on a platform of sand which run in front of the hole and commence light a fire there in silence. dry bent sand poppy and driftwood burn quickly. and i derive much consolation from the fact that he light them with an ordinary sulphur match. when they be in a bright glow and the crow be neatly spit in front thereof gunga das begin without a word of preamble. 
there be only two kind of men sar. the alive and the dead. when you be dead you be dead but when you be alive you live. here the crow demand his attention for an instant a it twirl before the fire in danger of be burn to a cinder. if you die at home and do not die when you come to the ghat to be burn you come here. 
the nature of the reek village be make plain now and all that i have know or read of the grotesque and the horrible pal before the fact just communicate by the ex brahmin. sixteen year ago when i first land in bombay i have be tell by a wander armenian of the existence somewhere in india of a place to which such hindu a have the misfortune to recover from trance or catalepsy be convey and keep and i recollect laugh heartily at what i be then please to consider a traveler s tale. 
sit at the bottom of the sand trap the memory of watson s hotel with it swing punkah white rob attendant and the sallow face armenian rise up in my mind a vividly a a photograph and i burst into a loud fit of laughter. the contrast be too absurd. 
gunga das a he bend over the unclean bird watch me curiously. hindu seldom laugh and his surround be not such a to move gunga das to any undue excess of hilarity. he remove the crow solemnly from the wooden spit and a solemnly devour it. then he continue his story which i give in his own word. 
in epidemic of the cholera you be carry to be burn almost before you be dead. when you come to the riverside the cold air perhaps make you alive and then if you be only little alive mud be put on your nose and mouth and you die conclusively. if you be rather more alive more mud be put. but if you be too lively they let you go and take you away. i be too lively and make protestation with anger against the indignity that they endeavor to press upon me. in those day i be brahmin and proud man. 
now i be dead man and eat here he eye the well gnaw breast bone with the first sign of emotion that i have see in him since we meet crow and other thing. they take me from my sheet when they saw that i be too lively and give me medicine for one week and i survive successfully. then they send me by rail from my place to okara station with a man to take care of me. and at okara station we meet two other men and they conduct we three on camel in the night from okara station to this place and they propel me from the top to the bottom and the other two succeed and i have be here ever since two and a half year. once i be brahmin and proud man and now i eat crow. 
there be no way of get out. 
none of what kind at all. when i first come i make experiment frequently and all the others also but we have always succumb to the sand which be precipitate upon our head. 
but surely i break in at this point the river front be open and it be worth while dodge the bullet. while at night i have already mature a rough plan of escape which a natural instinct of selfishness forbid me share with gunga das. he however divine my unspoken think almost a soon a it be form. and to my intense astonishment give vent to a long low chuckle of derision the laughter be it understand of a superior or at least of an equal. 
you will not he have drop the sir completely after his open sentence make any escape that way. but you can try. i have try. once only. 
the sensation of nameless terror and abject fear which i have in vain attempt to strive against overmaster me completely. my long fast it be now close upon ten o clock and i have eat nothing since tiffin on the previous day combine with the violent and unnatural agitation of the ride have exhaust me and i verily believe that for a few minute i act a one mad. i hurl myself against the pitiless sand slope. i run round the base of the crater blaspheme and pray by turn. i crawl out among the sedge of the river front only to be drive back each time in an agony of nervous dread by the rifle bullet which cut up the sand round me for i dare not face the death of a mad dog among that hideous crowd and finally fell spend and rave at the curb of the well. no one have take the slight notion of an exhibition which make me blush hotly even when i think of it now. 
two or three men tread on my pant body a they draw water but they be evidently use to this sort of thing and have no time to waste upon me. the situation be humiliate. gunga das indeed when he have bank the ember of his fire with sand be at some pain to throw half a cupful of fetid water over my head an attention for which i could have fall on my knee and thank him but he be laugh all the while in the same mirthless wheezy key that greet me on my first attempt to force the shoal. and so in a semi comatose condition i lay till noon. 
then be only a man after all i felt hungry and intimate a much to gunga das whom i have begin to regard a my natural protector. follow the impulse of the out world when deal with native i put my hand into my pocket and draw out four anna. the absurdity of the gift strike me at once and i be about to replace the money. 
gunga das however be of a different opinion. give me the money say he. all you have or i will get help and we will kill you. all this a if it be the most natural thing in the world. 
a briton s first impulse i believe be to guard the content of his pocket. but a moment s reflection convince me of the futility of differ with the one man who have it in his power to make me comfortable. and with whose help it be possible that i might eventually escape from the crater. i give him all the money in my possession r. nine rupee eight anna and five pie for i always keep small change a bakshish when i be in camp. gunga das clutch the coin and hide them at once in his rag loin cloth his expression change to something diabolical a he look round to assure himself that no one have observe u. 
now i will give you something to eat say he. 
what pleasure the possession of my money could have afford him i be unable to say. but inasmuch a it do give him evident delight i be not sorry that i have part with it so readily for i have no doubt that he would have have me kill if i have refuse. one doe not protest against the vagary of a den of wild beast. and my companion be low than any beast. while i devour what gunga das have provide a coarse chapatti and a cupful of the foul well water the people show not the faint sign of curiosity that curiosity which be so rampant a a rule in an indian village. 
i could even fancy that they despise me. at all event they treat me with the most chill indifference and gunga das be nearly a bad. i ply him with question about the terrible village and receive extremely unsatisfactory answer. so far a i could gather it have be in existence from time immemorial whence i conclude that it be at least a century old and during that time no one have ever be know to escape from it. [i have to control myself here with both hand l the blind terror should lay hold of me a second time and drive me rave round the crater. ] gunga das take a malicious pleasure in emphasize this point and in watch me wince. nothing that i could do would induce him to tell me who the mysterious they be. 
it be so order he would reply and i do not yet know any one who ha disobey the order. 
only wait till my servant find that i be miss i retort and i promise you that this place shall be clear off the face of the earth and i ll give you a lesson in civility too my friend. 
your servant would be tear in piece before they come near this place. and besides you be dead my dear friend. it be not your fault of course but none the le you be dead and bury. 
at irregular interval supply of food i be tell be drop down from the land side into the amphitheatre and the inhabitant fight for them like wild beast. when a man felt his death come on he retreat to his lair and die there. the body be sometimes drag out of the hole and throw on to the sand or allow to rot where it lay. 
the phrase throw on to the sand catch my attention and i ask gunga das whether this sort of thing be not likely to breed a pestilence. 
that. say he. with another of his wheezy chuckle you may see for yourself subsequently. you will have much time to make observation. 
whereat to his great delight i wince once more and hastily continue the conversation. and how do you live here from day to day. what do you do. the question elicit exactly the same answer a before couple with the information that this place be like your european heaven. there be neither marry nor give in marriage. 
gunga das have be educate at a mission school and a he himself admit have he only change his religion like a wise man might have avoid the live grave which be now his portion. but a long a i be with him i fancy he be happy. 
here be a sahib a representative of the dominant race helpless a a child and completely at the mercy of his native neighbor. in a deliberate lazy way he set himself to torture me a a schoolboy would devote a rapturous half hour to watch the agony of an impale beetle or a a ferret in a blind burrow might glue himself comfortably to the neck of a rabbit. the burden of his conversation be that there be no escape of no kind whatever and that i should stay here till i die and be throw on to the sand. if it be possible to forejudge the conversation of the damn on the advent of a new soul in their abide i should say that they would speak a gunga das do to me throughout that long afternoon. i be powerless to protest or answer. all my energy be devote to a struggle against the inexplicable terror that threaten to overwhelm me again and again. i can compare the feel to nothing except the struggle of a man against the overpower nausea of the channel passage only my agony be of the spirit and infinitely more terrible. 
a the day wear on the inhabitant begin to appear in full strength to catch the ray of the afternoon sun which be now slop in at the mouth of the crater. they assemble in little knot and talk among themselves without even throw a glance in my direction. about four o clock a far a i could judge gunga das rise and dive into his lair for a moment emerge with a live crow in his hand. the wretched bird be in a most draggle and deplorable condition but seem to be in no way afraid of it master advance cautiously to the river front gunga das step from tussock to tussock until he have reach a smooth patch of sand directly in the line of the boat s fire. the occupant of the boat take no notice. here he stop and with a couple of dexterous turn of the wrist peg the bird on it back with outstretched wing. a be only natural the crow begin to shriek at once and beat the air with it claw. in a few second the clamor have attract the attention of a bevy of wild crow on a shoal a few hundred yard away where they be discuss something that look like a corpse. half a dozen crow fly over at once to see what be go on and also a it prove to attack the pinion bird. gunga das who have lie down on a tussock motion to me to be quiet though i fancy this be a needle precaution. in a moment and before i could see how it happen a wild crow who have grapple with the shriek and helpless bird be entangle in the latter s claw swiftly disengage by gunga das and peg down beside it companion in adversity. curiosity it seem overpower the rest of the flock and almost before gunga das and i have time to withdraw to the tussock two more captive be struggle in the upturned claw of the decoy. so the chase if i can give it so dignify a name continue until gunga das have capture seven crow. five of them he throttle at once reserve two for further operation another day. i be a good deal impress by this to me novel method of secure food and compliment gunga das on his skill. 
it be nothing to do say he. tomorrow you must do it for me. you be strong than i be. 
this calm assumption of superiority upset me not a little and i answer peremptorily. indeed you old ruffian. what do you think i have give you money for. 
very well be the unmoved reply. perhaps not tomorrow nor the day after nor subsequently. but in the end and for many year you will catch crow and eat crow and you will thank your european god that you have crow to catch and eat. 
i could have cheerfully strangle him for this. but judge it best under the circumstance to smother my resentment. an hour late i be eat one of the crow. and a gunga das have say thank my god that i have a crow to eat. never a long a i live shall i forget that even meal. the whole population be squat on the hard sand platform opposite their den huddle over tiny fire of refuse and dry rush. death have once lay his hand upon these men and forbear to strike seem to stand aloof from them now. for most of our company be old men bend and wear and twist with year and woman age to all appearance a the fate themselves. they sit together in knot and talk god only know what they find to discus in low equable tone curiously in contrast to the strident babble with which native be accustom to make day hideous. now and then an access of that sudden fury which have possess me in the morning would lay hold on a man or woman. and with yell and imprecation the sufferer would attack the steep slope until baffle and bleed he fell back on the platform incapable of move a limb. the others would never even raise their eye when this happen a men too well aware of the futility of their fellow attempt and weary with their useless repetition. i saw four such outburst in the course of the even. 
gunga das take an eminently business like view of my situation and while we be din i can afford to laugh at the recollection now but it be painful enough at the time propound the term on which he would consent to do for me. my nine rupee eight anna he argue at the rate of three anna a day would provide me with food for fifty one day or about seven week. that be to say he would be will to cater for me for that length of time. at the end of it i be to look after myself. for a further consideration videlicet my boot he would be will to allow me to occupy the den next to his own and would supply me with a much dry grass for bed a he could spare. 
very well gunga das i reply. to the first term i cheerfully agree but a there be nothing on earth to prevent my kill you a you sit here and take everything that you have. i think of the two invaluable crow at the time. i flatly refuse to give you my boot and shall take whichever den i please. 
the stroke be a bold one and i be glad when i saw that it have succeed. gunga das change his tone immediately and disavow all intention of ask for my boot. at the time it do not strike me a at all strange that i a civil engineer a man of thirteen year stand in the service and i trust an average englishman should thus calmly threaten murder and violence against the man who have for a consideration it be true take me under his wing. i have leave the world it seem for century. i be a certain then a i be now of my own existence that in the accurse settlement there be no law save that of the strong. that the live dead men have throw behind them every canon of the world which have cast them out. and that i have to depend for my own life on my strength and vigilance alone. the crew of the ill fat mignonette be the only men who would understand my frame of mind. at present i argue to myself i be strong and a match for six of these wretch. it be imperatively necessary that i should for my own sake keep both health and strength until the hour of my release come if it ever doe. 
fortify with these resolution i eat and drink a much a i could and make gunga das understand that i intend to be his master and that the least sign of insubordination on his part would be visit with the only punishment i have it in my power to inflict sudden and violent death. shortly after this i go to bed. 
that be to say gunga das give me a double armful of dry bent which i thrust down the mouth of the lair to the right of his and follow myself foot foremost. the hole run about nine foot into the sand with a slight downward inclination and be neatly shore with timber. from my den which face the river front i be able to watch the water of the sutlej flow past under the light of a young moon and compose myself to sleep a best i might. 
the horror of that night i shall never forget. my den be nearly a narrow a a coffin and the side have be wear smooth and greasy by the contact of innumerable naked body add to which it smell abominably. sleep be altogether out of question to one in my excite frame of mind. a the night wear on it seem that the entire amphitheatre be fill with legion of unclean devil that troop up from the shoal below mock the unfortunate in their lair. 
personally i be not of an imaginative temperament very few engineer be but on that occasion i be a completely prostrate with nervous terror a any woman. after half an hour or so however i be able once more to calmly review my chance of escape. any exit by the steep sand wall be of course impracticable. i have be thoroughly convince of this some time before. it be possible just possible that i might in the uncertain moonlight safely run the gauntlet of the rifle shot. the place be so full of terror for me that i be prepare to undergo any risk in leave it. imagine my delight then when after creep stealthily to the river front i find that the infernal boat be not there. my freedom lay before me in the next few step. 
by walk out to the first shallow pool that lay at the foot of the project leave horn of the horseshoe i could wade across turn the flank of the crater and make my way inland. without a moment s hesitation i march briskly past the tussock where gunga das have snare the crow and out in the direction of the smooth white sand beyond. my first step from the tuft of dry grass show me how utterly futile be any hope of escape. for a i put my foot down i felt an indescribable draw suck motion of the sand below. another moment and my leg be swallow up nearly to the knee. in the moonlight the whole surface of the sand seem to be shake with devilish delight at my disappointment. i struggle clear sweat with terror and exertion back to the tussock behind me and fell on my face. 
my only mean of escape from the semicircle be protect with a quicksand. 
how long i lay i have not the faint idea. but i be rouse at last by the malevolent chuckle of gunga das at my ear. i would advise you protector of the poor. the ruffian be speak english. to return to your house. it be unhealthy to lie down here. moreover when the boat return you will most certainly be rifle at. he stand over me in the dim light of the dawn chuckle and laugh to himself. suppress my first impulse to catch the man by the neck and throw him on to the quicksand i rise sullenly and follow him to the platform below the burrow. 
suddenly and futilely a i think while i speak i ask gunga das what be the good of the boat if i can t get out anyhow. i recollect that even in my deep trouble i have be speculate vaguely on the waste of ammunition in guard an already well protect foreshore. 
gunga das laugh again and make answer. they have the boat only in daytime. it be for the reason that there be a way. i hope we shall have the pleasure of your company for much long time. it be a pleasant spot when you have be here some year and eat roast crow long enough. 
i stagger numb and helpless toward the fetid burrow allot to me and fell asleep. an hour or so late i be awaken by a pierce scream the shrill high pitch scream of a horse in pain. those who have once hear that will never forget the sound. i find some little difficulty in scramble out of the burrow. when i be in the open i saw pornic my poor old pornic lie dead on the sandy soil. how they have kill him i cannot guess. gunga das explain that horse be good than crow and great good of great number be political maxim. we be now republic mister juke and you be entitle to a fair share of the beast. if you like we will pas a vote of thank. shall i propose. 
yes we be a republic indeed. a republic of wild beast pen at the bottom of a pit to eat and fight and sleep till we die. i attempt no protest of any kind but sit down and star at the hideous sight in front of me. in le time almost than it take me to write this pornic s body be divide in some unclear way or other. the men and woman have drag the fragment on to the platform and be prepare their normal meal. gunga das cook mine. the almost irresistible impulse to fly at the sand wall until i be weary lay hold of me afresh and i have to struggle against it with all my might. gunga das be offensively jocular till i tell him that if he address another remark of any kind whatever to me i should strangle him where he sit. this silence him till silence become insupportable and i bid him say something. 
you will live here till you die like the other feringhi he say coolly watch me over the fragment of gristle that he be gnaw. 
what other sahib you swine. speak at once and don t stop to tell me a lie. 
he be over there answer gunga das point to a burrow mouth about four door ta the leave of my own. you can see for yourself. he die in the burrow a you will die and i will die and a all these men and woman and the one child will also die. 
for pity s sake tell me all you know about him. who be he. when do he come and when do he die. 
this appeal be a weak step on my part. gunga das only leer and reply. i will not unless you give me something first. 
then i recollect where i be and strike the man between the eye partially stun him. he step down from the platform at once and cringe and fawn and weep and attempt to embrace my foot lead me round to the burrow which he have indicate. 
i know nothing whatever about the gentleman. your god be my witness that i do not. he be a anxious to escape a you be and he be shoot from the boat though we all do all thing to prevent him from attempt. he be shoot here. gunga das lay his hand on his lean stomach and bow to the earth. 
well and what then. go on. 
and then and then your honor we carry him in to his house and give him water and put wet cloth on the wind and he lay down in his house and give up the ghost. 
in how long. in how long. 
about half an hour after he receive his wind. i call vishnu to witness yell the wretched man that i do everything for him. everything which be possible that i do. 
he throw himself down on the grind and clasp my ankle. but i have my doubt about gunga das s benevolence and kick him off a he lay protest. 
i believe you rob him of everything he have. but i can find out in a minute or two. how long be the sahib here. 
nearly a year and a half. i think he must have go mad. but hear me swear protector of the poor. win t your honor hear me swear that i never touch an article that belong to him. what be your worship go to do. 
i have take gunga das by the waist and have haul him on to the platform opposite the desert burrow. a i do so i think of my wretched fellow prisoner s unspeakable misery among all these horror for eighteen month and the final agony of die like a rat in a hole with a bullet wind in the stomach. gunga das fancy i be go to kill him and howl pitifully. the rest of the population in the plethora that follow a full flesh meal watch u without stir. 
go inside gunga das say i and fetch it out. 
i be feel sick and faint with horror now. gunga das nearly roll off the platform and howl aloud. 
but i be brahmin sahib a high caste brahmin. by your soul by your father s soul do not make me do this thing. 
brahmin or no brahmin by my soul and my father s soul in you go. i say and seize him by the shoulder i cram his head into the mouth of the burrow kick the rest of him in and sit down cover my face with my hand. 
at the end of a few minute i hear a rustle and a creak. then gunga das in a sob choke whisper speak to himself. then a soft thud and i uncover my eye. 
the dry sand have turn the corpse entrust to it keep into a yellow brown mummy. i tell gunga das to stand off while i examine it. 
the body clothe in an olive green hunt suit much stain and wear with leather pad on the shoulder be that of a man between thirty and forty above middle height with light sandy hair long mustache and a rough unkempt beard. the leave canine of the upper jaw be miss and a portion of the lobe of the right ear be go. on the second finger of the leave hand be a ring a shield shape bloodstone set in gold with a monogram that might have be either b. k. or b. l. on the third finger of the right hand be a silver ring in the shape of a coil cobra much wear and tarnish. gunga das deposit a handful of trifle he have pick out of the burrow at my foot and cover the face of the body with my handkerchief i turn to examine these. i give the full list in the hope that it may lead to the identification of the unfortunate man. 
bowl of a briarwood pipe serrate at the edge. much wear and blacken. bind with string at the crew. 
two patent lever key. ward of both break. 
tortoise shell handle penknife silver or nickel name plate mark with monogram b. k. 
envelope postmark undecipherable bear a victorian stamp address to miss mon. rest illegible. ham nt. 
imitation crocodile skin notebook with pencil. first forty five page blank. four and a half illegible. fifteen others fill with private memoranda relate chiefly to three person a mr. l. singleton abbreviate several time to lot single mr. s. may and garmison refer to in place a jerry or jack. 
handle of small size hunt knife. blade snap short. buck s horn diamond cut with swivel and ring on the butt. fragment of cotton cord attach. 
it must not be suppose that i inventoried all these thing on the spot a fully a i have here write them down. the notebook first attract my attention and i put it in my pocket with a view of study it late on. 
the rest of the article i convey to my burrow for safety s sake and there be a methodical man i inventoried them. i then return to the corpse and order gunga das to help me to carry it out to the river front. while we be engage in this the explode shell of an old brown cartridge drop out of one of the pocket and roll at my foot. gunga das have not see it. and i fell to think that a man doe not carry explode cartridge case especially brown which will not bear load twice about with him when shoot. in other word that cartridge case have be fire inside the crater. consequently there must be a gun somewhere. i be on the verge of ask gunga das but check myself know that he would lie. we lay the body down on the edge of the quicksand by the tussock. it be my intention to push it out and let it be swallow up the only possible mode of burial that i could think of. i order gunga das to go away. 
then i gingerly put the corpse out on the quicksand. in do so it be lie face downward i tear the frail and rotten khaki shoot coat open disclose a hideous cavity in the back. i have already tell you that the dry sand have a it be mummify the body. a moment s glance show that the gap hole have be cause by a gun shoot wind. the gun must have be fire with the muzzle almost touch the back. the shoot coat be intact have be draw over the body after death which must have be instantaneous. the secret of the poor wretch s death be plain to me in a flash. some one of the crater presumably gunga das must have shoot him with his own gun the gun that fit the brown cartridge. he have never attempt to escape in the face of the rifle fire from the boat. 
i push the corpse out hastily and saw it sink from sight literally in a few second. i shudder a i watch. in a daze half conscious way i turn to peruse the notebook. a stain and discolor slip of paper bad be insert between the bind and the back and drop out a i open the page. this be what it contain. four out from crow clump. three leave. nine out. two right. three back. two leave. fourteen out. two leave. seven out. one leave. nine back. two right. six back. four right. seven back. the paper have be burn and char at the edge. what it mean i could not understand. i sit down on the dry bent turn it over and over between my finger until i be aware of gunga das stand immediately behind me with glow eye and outstretched hand. 
have you get it. he pant. will you not let me look at it also. i swear that i will return it. 
get what. return what. ask. 
that which you have in your hand. it will help u both. he stretch out his long bird like talon tremble with eagerness. 
i could never find it he continue. he have secrete it about his person. therefore i shoot him but nevertheless i be unable to obtain it. 
gunga das have quite forget his little fiction about the rifle bullet. i receive the information perfectly calmly. morality be blunt by consort with the dead who be alive. 
what on earth be you rave about. what be it you want me to give you. 
the piece of paper in the notebook. it will help u both. oh you fool. you fool. can you not see what it will do for u. we shall escape. 
his voice rise almost to a scream and he dance with excitement before me. i own i be move at the chance of my get away. 
don t skip. explain yourself. do you mean to say that this slip of paper will help u. what doe it mean. 
read it aloud. read it aloud. i beg and i pray you to read it aloud. 
i do so. gunga das listen delightedly and draw an irregular line in the sand with his finger. 
see now. it be the length of his gun barrel without the stock. i have those barrel. four gun barrel out from the place where i catch crow straight out. do you follow me. then three leave ah. how well i remember when that man work it out night after night then nine out and so on. out be always straight before you across the quicksand. he tell me so before i kill him. 
but if you know all this why didn t you get out before. 
i do not know it. he tell me that he be work it out a year and a half ago and how he be work it out night after night when the boat have go away and he could get out near the quicksand safely. then he say that we would get away together. but i be afraid that he would leave me behind one night when he have work it all out and so i shoot him. besides it be not advisable that the men who once get in here should escape. only i and i be a brahmin. 
the prospect of escape have bring gunga das s caste back to him. he stand up walk about and gesticulate violently. eventually i manage to make him talk soberly and he tell me how this englishman have spend six month night after night in explore inch by inch the passage across the quicksand. how he have declare it to be simplicity itself up to within about twenty yard of the river bank after turn the flank of the leave horn of the horseshoe. this much he have evidently not complete when gunga das shoot him with his own gun. 
in my frenzy of delight at the possibility of escape i recollect shake hand effusively with gunga das after we have decide that we be to make an attempt to get away that very night. it be weary work wait throughout the afternoon. 
about ten o clock a far a i could judge when the moon have just rise above the lip of the crater gunga das make a move for his burrow to bring out the gun barrel whereby to measure our path. all the other wretched inhabitant have retire to their lair long ago. the guardian boat drift downstream some hour before and we be utterly alone by the crow clump. gunga das while carry the gun barrel let slip the piece of paper which be to be our guide. i stoop down hastily to recover it and a i do so i be aware that the diabolical brahmin be aim a violent blow at the back of my head with the gun barrel. it be too late to turn round. i must have receive the blow somewhere on the nape of my neck. a hundred thousand fiery star dance before my eye and i fell forward senseless at the edge of the quicksand. 
when i recover consciousness the moon be go down and i be sensible of intolerable pain in the back of my head. gunga das have disappear and my mouth be full of blood. i lay down again and pray that i might die without more ado. then the unreasoning fury which i have before mention lay hold upon me and i stagger inland toward the wall of the crater. it seem that some one be call to me in a whisper sahib. sahib. sahib. exactly a my bearer use to call me in the morning i fancy that i be delirious until a handful of sand fell at my foot. then i look up and saw a head peer down into the amphitheatre the head of dunnoo my dog boy who attend to my collie. a soon a he have attract my attention he hold up his hand and show a rope. i motion. stagger to and fro for the while that he should throw it down. it be a couple of leather punkah rope knot together with a loop at one end. i slip the loop over my head and under my arm. hear dunnoo urge something forward. be conscious that i be be drag face downward up the steep sand slope and the next instant find myself choke and half faint on the sand hill overlook the crater. dunnoo with his face ashy grey in the moonlight implore me not to stay but to get back to my tent at once. 
it seem that he have track pornic s footprint fourteen mile across the sand to the crater. have return and tell my servant who flatly refuse to meddle with any one white or black once fall into the hideous village of the dead. whereupon dunnoo have take one of my pony and a couple of punkah rope return to the crater and haul me out a i have describe. 
to cut a long story short dunnoo be now my personal servant on a gold mohur a month a sum which i still think far too little for the service he ha render. nothing on earth will induce me to go near that devilish spot again or to reveal it whereabouts more clearly than i have do. of gunga das i have never find a trace nor do i wish to do. my sole motive in give this to be publish be the hope that some one may possibly identify from the detail and the inventory which i have give above the corpse of the man in the olive green hunt suit. 
* * * * * * * *. 
the man who would be king. 
brother to a prince and fellow to a beggar if he be find worthy. 
the law a quote lay down a fair conduct of life and one not easy to follow. i have be fellow to a beggar again and again under circumstance which prevent either of u find out whether the other be worthy. i have still to be brother to a prince though i once come near to kinship with what might have be a veritable king and be promise the reversion of a kingdom army law court revenue and policy all complete. but today i greatly fear that my king be dead and if i want a crown i must go hunt it for myself. 
the begin of everything be in a railway train upon the road to mhow from ajmir. there have be a deficit in the budget which necessitate travel not second class which be only half a dear a first class but by intermediate which be very awful indeed. there be no cushion in the intermediate class and the population be either intermediate which be eurasian or native which for a long night journey be nasty or loafer which be amuse though intoxicate. intermediate do not buy from refreshment room. they carry their food in bundle and pot and buy sweet from the native sweetmeat seller and drink the roadside water. this be why in hot weather intermediate be take out of the carriage dead and in all weather be most properly look down upon. 
my particular intermediate happen to be empty till i reach nasirabad when the big black browed gentleman in shirt sleeve enter and follow the custom of intermediate pass the time of day. he be a wanderer and a vagabond like myself but with an educate taste for whisky. he tell tale of thing he have see and do of out of the way corner of the empire into which he have penetrate and of adventure in which he risk his life for a few day food. 
if india be fill with men like you and me not know more than the crow where they d get their next day s ration it isn t seventy million of revenue the land would be pay it s seven hundred million say he. and a i look at his mouth and chin i be dispose to agree with him. 
we talk politics the politics of loaferdom that see thing from the under side where the lath and plaster be not smooth off and we talk postal arrangement because my friend want to send a telegram back from the next station to ajmir the turn off place from the bombay to the mhow line a you travel westward. my friend have no money beyond eight anna which he want for dinner and i have no money at all owe to the hitch in the budget before mention. further i be go into a wilderness where though i should resume touch with the treasury there be no telegraph office. i be therefore unable to help him in any way. 
we might threaten a station master and make him send a wire on tick say my friend but that d mean inquiry for you and for me and i ve get my hand full these day. do you say you be travel back along this line within any day. 
within ten i say. 
can t you make it eight. say he. mine be rather urgent business. 
i can send your telegram within ten day if that will serve you i say. 
i couldn t trust the wire to fetch him now i think of it. it s this way. he leaf delhi on the rd for bombay. that mean he ll be run through ajmir about the night of the rd. 
but i m go into the indian desert i explain. 
well and good say he. you ll be change at marwar junction to get into jodhpore territory you must do that and he ll be come through marwar junction in the early morning of the th by the bombay mail. can you be at marwar junction on that time. t win t be inconvenience you because i know that there s precious few picking to be get out of these central india state even though you pretend to be correspondent of the backwoodsman. 
have you ever try that trick. i ask. 
again and again but the resident find you out and then you get escort to the border before you ve time to get your knife into them. but about my friend here. i must give him a word o mouth to tell him what s come to me or else he win t know where to go. i would take it more than kind of you if you be to come out of central india in time to catch him at marwar junction and say to him he ha go south for the week. he ll know what that mean. he s a big man with a red beard and a great swell he be. 
you ll find him sleep like a gentleman with all his luggage round him in a second class apartment. but don t you be afraid. 
slip down the window and say he ha go south for the week and he ll tumble. it s only cut your time of stay in those part by two day. i ask you a a strange go to the west he say with emphasis. 
where have you come from. say i. 
from the east say he and i be hop that you will give him the message on the square for the sake of my mother a well a your own. 
englishman be not usually soften by appeal to the memory of their mother. but for certain reason which will be fully apparent i saw fit to agree. 
it s more than a little matter say he and that s why i ask you to do it and now i know that i can depend on you do it. a second class carriage at marwar junction and a red haired man asleep in it. you ll be sure to remember. i get out at the next station and i must hold on there till he come or send me what i want. 
i ll give the message if i catch him i say and for the sake of your mother a well a mine i ll give you a word of advice. don t try to run the central india state just now a the correspondent of the backwoodsman. there s a real one knock about here and it might lead to trouble. 
thank you say he simply. and when will the swine be go. i can t starve because he s ruin my work. i want to get hold of the degumber rajah down here about his father s widow and give him a jump. 
what do he do to his father s widow then. 
fill her up with red pepper and slippered her to death a she hang from a beam. i find that out myself and i m the only man that would dare go into the state to get hush money for it. they ll try to poison me same a they do in chortumna when i go on the loot there. but you ll give the man at marwar junction my message. 
he get out at a little roadside station and i reflect. i have hear more than once of men personate correspondent of newspaper and bleed small native state with threat of exposure but i have never meet any of the caste before. they lead a hard life and generally die with great suddenness. the native state have a wholesome horror of english newspaper which may throw light on their peculiar method of government and do their best to choke correspondent with champagne or drive them out of their mind with four in hand barouche. they do not understand that nobody care a straw for the internal administration of native state so long a oppression and crime be keep within decent limit and the ruler be not drug drink or diseased from one end of the year to the other. they be the dark place of the earth full of unimaginable cruelty touch the railway and the telegraph on one side and on the other the day of harun al raschid. when i leave the train i do business with diver king and in eight day pass through many change of life. sometimes i wear dress clothe and consort with prince and politicals drink from crystal and eat from silver. sometimes i lay out upon the grind and devour what i could get from a plate make of leaf and drink the run water and sleep under the same rug a my servant. it be all in the day s work. 
then i head for the great indian desert upon the proper date a i have promise and the night mail set me down at marwar junction where a funny little happy go lucky native manage railway run to jodhpore. the bombay mail from delhi make a short halt at marwar. she arrive just a i get in and i have just time to hurry to her platform and go down the carriage. there be only one second class on the train. i slip the window and look down upon a flame red beard half cover by a railway rug. that be my man fast asleep and i dig him gently in the rib. 
he wake with a grunt and i saw his face in the light of the lamp. 
it be a great and shin face. 
ticket again. say he. 
no say i. i be to tell you that he be go south for the week. he ha go south for the week. 
the train have begin to move out. the red man rub his eye. 
he ha go south for the week he repeat. now that s just like his impidence. do he say that i be to give you anything. cause i win t. 
he didn t i say and drop away and watch the red light die out in the dark. it be horribly cold because the wind be blow off the sand. i climb into my own train not an intermediate carriage this time and go to sleep. 
if the man with the beard have give me a rupee i should have keep it a a memento of a rather curious affair. but the consciousness of have do my duty be my only reward. 
late on i reflect that two gentleman like my friend could not do any good if they foregather and personate correspondent of newspaper and might if they blackmail one of the little rat trap state of central india or southern rajputana get themselves into serious difficulty. i therefore take some trouble to describe them a accurately a i could remember to people who would be interest in deport them. and succeed so i be late inform in have them head back from the degumber border. 
then i become respectable and return to an office where there be no king and no incident outside the daily manufacture of a newspaper. a newspaper office seem to attract every conceivable sort of person to the prejudice of discipline. zenana mission lady arrive and beg that the editor will instantly abandon all his duty to describe a christian prize give in a back slum of a perfectly inaccessible village. colonel who have be overpassed for command sit down and sketch the outline of a series of ten twelve or twenty four lead article on seniority versus selection. missionary wish to know why they have not be permit to escape from their regular vehicle of abuse and swear at a brother missionary under special patronage of the editorial we. strand theatrical company troop up to explain that they cannot pay for their advertisement but on their return from new zealand or tahiti will do so with interest. inventor of patent punka pull machine carriage coupling and unbreakable sword and axletree call with specification in their pocket and hour at their disposal. tea company enter and elaborate their prospectus with the office pen. secretary of ball committee clamour to have the glory of their last dance more fully describe. strange lady rustle in and say i want a hundred lady s card print at once please which be manifestly part of an editor s duty. and every dissolute ruffian that ever tramp the grand trunk road make it his business to ask for employment a a proof reader. and all the time the telephone bell be ring madly and king be be kill on the continent and empire be say you re another and mister gladstone be call down brimstone upon the british dominion and the little black copyboys be whine kaa pi chay ha yeh. copy want. like tire bee and most of the paper be a blank a modred s shield. 
but that be the amuse part of the year. there be six other month when none ever come to call and the thermometer walk inch by inch up to the top of the glass and the office be darken to just above read light and the press machine be red hot to touch and nobody write anything but account of amusement in the hill station or obituary notice. then the telephone become a tinkle terror because it tell you of the sudden death of men and woman that you know intimately and the prickly heat cover you with a garment and you sit down and write. a slight increase of sickness be report from the khuda janta khan district. the outbreak be purely sporadic in it nature and thank to the energetic effort of the district authority be now almost at an end. it be however with deep regret we record the death etc. 
then the sickness really break out and the le record and report the good for the peace of the subscriber. but the empire and the king continue to divert themselves a selfishly a before and the foreman think that a daily paper really ought to come out once in twenty four hour and all the people at the hill station in the middle of their amusement say good gracious. why can t the paper be sparkle. i m sure there s plenty go on up here. 
that be the dark half of the moon and a the advertisement say must be experience to be appreciate. 
it be in that season and a remarkably evil season that the paper begin run the last issue of the week on saturday night which be to say sunday morning after the custom of a london paper. this be a great convenience for immediately after the paper be put to bed the dawn would low the thermometer from degree to almost degree for half an hour and in that chill you have no idea how cold be degree on the grass until you begin to pray for it a very tire man could get off to sleep ere the heat rouse him. 
one saturday night it be my pleasant duty to put the paper to bed alone. a king or courtier or a courtesan or a community be go to die or get a new constitution or do something that be important on the other side of the world and the paper be to be hold open till the late possible minute in order to catch the telegram. 
it be a pitchy black night a stifle a a june night can be and the loo the red hot wind from the westward be boom among the tinder dry tree and pretend that the rain be on it heel. 
now and again a spot of almost boil water would fall on the dust with the flop of a frog but all our weary world know that be only pretence. it be a shade cool in the press room than the office so i sit there while the type tick and click and the night jar hoot at the window and the all but naked compositor wipe the sweat from their forehead and call for water. the thing that be keep u back whatever it be would not come off though the loo drop and the last type be set and the whole round earth stand still in the choke heat with it finger on it lip to wait the event. i drowse and wonder whether the telegraph be a bless and whether this die man or struggle people might be aware of the inconvenience the delay be cause. there be no special reason beyond the heat and worry to make tension but a the clock hand creep up to three o clock and the machine spin their fly wheel two and three time to see that all be in order before i say the word that would set them off i could have shriek aloud. 
then the roar and rattle of the wheel shiver the quiet into little bit. i rise to go away but two men in white clothe stand in front of me. the first one say it s him. the second say so it be. and they both laugh almost a loudly a the machinery roar and mop their forehead. we seed there be a light burn across the road and we be sleep in that ditch there for coolness and i say to my friend here the office be open. let s come along and speak to him a turn u back from degumber state say the small of the two. he be the man i have meet in the mhow train and his fellow be the red beard man of marwar junction. there be no mistake the eyebrow of the one or the beard of the other. 
i be not please because i wish to go to sleep not to squabble with loafer. what do you want. i ask. 
half an hour s talk with you cool and comfortable in the office say the red beard man. we d like some drink the contrack doesn t begin yet peachey so you needn t look but what we really want be advice. we don t want money. we ask you a a favour because we find out you do u a bad turn about degumber state. 
i lead from the press room to the stifle office with the map on the wall and the red haired man rub his hand. that s something like say he. this be the proper shop to come to. 
now sir let me introduce you to brother peachey carnehan that s him and brother daniel dravot that be me and the le say about our profession the good for we have be most thing in our time soldier sailor compositor photographer proof reader street preacher and correspondent of the backwoodsman when we think the paper want one. carnehan be sober and so be i. look at u first and see that s sure. it will save you cut into my talk. we ll take one of your cigar apiece and you shall see u light up. 
i watch the test. the men be absolutely sober so i give them each a tepid whisky and soda. 
well and good say carnehan of the eyebrow wipe the froth from his moustache. let me talk now dan. we have be all over india mostly on foot. we have be boiler fitter engine driver petty contractor and all that and we have decide that india isn t big enough for such a u. 
they certainly be too big for the office. dravot s beard seem to fill half the room and carnehan s shoulder the other half a they sit on the big table. carnehan continue. the country isn t half work out because they that govern it win t let you touch it. they spend all their bless time in govern it and you can t lift a spade nor chip a rock nor look for oil nor anything like that without all the government say leave it alone and let u govern. therefore such a it be we will let it alone and go away to some other place where a man isn t crowd and can come to his own. we be not little men and there be nothing that we be afraid of except drink and we have sign a contrack on that. 
therefore we be go away to be king. 
king in our own right mutter dravot. 
yes of course i say. you ve be tramp in the sun and it s a very warm night and hadn t you good sleep over the notion. come tomorrow. 
neither drink nor sunstruck say dravot. we have sleep over the notion half a year and require to see book and atlas and we have decide that there be only one place now in the world that two strong men can sar a whack. they call it kafiristan. by my reckon it s the top right hand corner of afghanistan not more than three hundred mile from peshawar. they have two and thirty heathen idol there and we ll be the thirty third and fourth. it s a mountaineous country the woman of those part be very beautiful. 
but that be provide against in the contrack say carnehan. neither woman nor liquor daniel. 
and that s all we know except that no one ha go there and they fight and in any place where they fight a man who know how to drill men can always be a king. we shall go to those part and say to any king we find d you want to vanquish your foe. and we will show him how to drill men. for that we know good than anything else. then we will subvert that king and seize his throne and establish a dy nasty. 
you ll be cut to piece before you re fifty mile across the border i say. you have to travel through afghanistan to get to that country. it s one mass of mountain and peak and glacier and no englishman ha be through it. the people be utter brute and even if you reach them you couldn t do anything. 
that s more like say carnehan. if you could think u a little more mad we would be more please. we have come to you to know about this country to read a book about it and to be show map. we want you to tell u that we be fool and to show u your book. he turn to the bookcase. 
be you at all in earnest. i say. 
a little say dravot sweetly. a big a map a you have get even if it s all blank where kafiristan be and any book you ve get. we can read though we aren t very educate. 
i uncase the big thirty two mile to the inch map of india and two small frontier map haul down volume inf kan of the encyclopaedia britannica and the men consult them. 
see here. say dravot his thumb on the map. up to jagdallak peachey and me know the road. we be there with robert s army. we ll have to turn off to the right at jagdallak through laghmann territory. then we get among the hill fourteen thousand foot fifteen thousand it will be cold work there but it don t look very far on the map. 
i hand him wood on the source of the oxus. carnehan be deep in the encyclopaedia. 
they re a mix lot say dravot reflectively. and it win t help u to know the name of their tribe. the more tribe the more they ll fight and the good for u. from jagdallak to ashang. h mm. 
but all the information about the country be a sketchy and inaccurate a can be i protest. no one know anything about it really. here s the file of the unite service institute. read what bellew say. 
blow bellew. say carnehan. dan they re a stinkin lot of heathen but this book here say they think they re relate to u english. 
i smoke while the men pour over raverty wood the map and the encyclopaedia. 
there be no use your wait say dravot politely. it s about four o clock now. we ll go before six o clock if you want to sleep and we win t steal any of the paper. don t you sit up. we re two harmless lunatic and if you come tomorrow even down to the serai we ll say goodbye to you. 
you be two fool i answer. you ll be turn back at the frontier or cut up the minute you set foot in afghanistan. do you want any money or a recommendation down country. i can help you to the chance of work next week. 
next week we shall be hard at work ourselves thank you say dravot. it isn t so easy be a king a it look. when we ve get our kingdom in go order we ll let you know and you can come up and help u govern it. 
would two lunatic make a contrack like that. say carnehan with subdue pride show me a greasy half sheet of notepaper on which be write the follow. i copy it then and there a a curiosity. 
this contrack between me and you persuing witnesseth in the name of god amen and so forth. 
one. that me and you will settle this matter together. i. e. to be king of kafiristan. 
two. that you and me will not while this matter be be settle look at any liquor nor any woman black white or brown so a to get mix up with one or the other harmful. 
three. that we conduct ourselves with dignity and discretion and if one of u get into trouble the other will stay by him. 
sign by you and me this day. 
peachey taliaferro carnehan. 
daniel dravot. 
both gentleman at large. 
there be no need for the last article say carnehan blush modestly. but it look regular. now you know the sort of men that loafer be we be loafer dan until we get out of india and do you think that we would sign a contrack like that unless we be in earnest. we have keep away from the two thing that make life worth have. 
you win t enjoy your life much long if you be go to try this idiotic adventure. don t set the office on fire i say and go away before nine o clock. 
i leave them still pore over the map and make note on the back of the contrack. be sure to come down to the serai tomorrow be their part word. 
the kumharsen serai be the great foursquare sink of humanity where the string of camel and horse from the north load and unload. all the nationality of central asia may be find there and most of the folk of india proper. balkh and bokhara there meet bengal and bombay and try to draw eye teeth. you can buy pony turquoise persian pussy cat saddle bag fat tail sheep and musk in the kumharsen serai and get many strange thing for nothing. in the afternoon i go down to see whether my friend intend to keep their word or be lie there drink. 
a priest attire in fragment of ribbon and rag stalk up to me gravely twist a child s paper whirligig. behind him be his servant bend under the load of a crate of mud toy. the two be load up two camel and the inhabitant of the serai watch them with shriek of laughter. 
the priest be mad say a horse dealer to me. he be go up to kabul to sell toy to the amir. he will either be raise to honour or have his head cut off. he come in here this morning and ha be behave madly ever since. 
the witless be under the protection of god stammer a flat cheek usbeg in break hindi. they foretell future event. 
would they could have foretell that my caravan would have be cut up by the shinwaris almost within shadow of the pas. grunt the eusufzai agent of a rajputana trade house whose good have be divert into the hand of other robber just across the border and whose misfortune be the laugh stock of the bazaar. ohe priest whence come you and whither do you go. 
from roum have i come shout the priest wave his whirligig. from roum blow by the breath of a hundred devil across the sea. o thief robber liar the bless of pir khan on pig dog and perjurer. who will take the protect of god to the north to sell charm that be never still to the amir. the camel shall not gall the son shall not fall sick and the wife shall remain faithful while they be away of the men who give me place in their caravan. who will assist me to slipper the king of the roos with a golden slipper with a silver heel. the protection of pir khan be upon his labour. he spread out the skirt of his gabardine and pirouette between the line of tether horse. 
there start a caravan from peshawar to kabul in twenty day huzrut say the eusufzai trader. my camel go therewith. do thou also go and bring u good luck. 
i will go even now. shout the priest. i will depart upon my wing camel and be at peshawar in a day. ho. hazar mir khan he yell to his servant drive out the camel but let me first mount my own. 
he leap on the back of his beast a it kneel and turn round to me cry come thou also sahib a little along the road and i will sell thee a charm an amulet that shall make thee king of kafiristan. 
then the light break upon me and i follow the two camel out of the serai till we reach open road and the priest halt. 
what d you think o that. say he in english. carnehan can t talk their patter so i ve make him my servant. he make a handsome servant. t isn t for nothing that i ve be knock about the country for fourteen year. didn t i do that talk neat. we ll hitch on to a caravan at peshawar till we get to jagdallak and then we ll see if we can get donkey for our camel and strike into kafiristan. whirligig for the amir o lor. put your hand under the camelbags and tell me what you feel. 
i felt the butt of a martini and another and another. 
twenty of em say dravot placidly. twenty of em and ammunition to correspond under the whirligig and the mud doll. 
heaven help you if you be catch with those thing. i say. a martini be worth her weight in silver among the pathan. 
fifteen hundred rupee of capital every rupee we could beg borrow or steal be invest on these two camel say dravot. 
we win t get catch. we re go through the khaiber with a regular caravan. who d touch a poor mad priest. 
have you get everything you want. i ask overcome with astonishment. 
not yet but we shall soon. give u a memento of your kindness brother. you do me a service yesterday and that time in marwar. half my kingdom shall you have a the say be. i slip a small charm compass from my watch chain and hand it up to the priest. 
goodbye say dravot give me hand cautiously. it s the last time we ll shake hand with an englishman these many day. shake hand with him carnehan he cry a the second camel pass me. 
carnehan lean down and shake hand. then the camel pass away along the dusty road and i be leave alone to wonder. my eye could detect no failure in the disguise. the scene in the serai prove that they be complete to the native mind. there be just the chance therefore that carnehan and dravot would be able to wander through afghanistan without detection. but beyond they would find death certain and awful death. 
ten day late a native correspondent give me the news of the day from peshawar wind up his letter with. there ha be much laughter here on account of a certain mad priest who be go in his estimation to sell petty gaud and insignificant trinket which he ascribe a great charm to h. h. the amir of bokhara. he pass through peshawar and associate himself to the second summer caravan that go to kabul. the merchant be please because through superstition they imagine that such mad fellow bring good fortune. 
the two then be beyond the border. i would have pray for them but that night a real king die in europe and demand an obituary notice. 
the wheel of the world swing through the same phase again and again. summer pass and winter thereafter and come and pass again. the daily paper continue and i with it and upon the third summer there fell a hot night a night issue and a strain wait for something to be telegraph from the other side of the world exactly a have happen before. a few great men have die in the past two year the machine work with more clatter and some of the tree in the office garden be a few foot tall. but that be all the difference. 
i pass over to the press room and go through just such a scene a i have already describe. the nervous tension be strong than it have be two year before and i felt the heat more acutely. at three o clock i cry print off and turn to go when there creep to my chair what be leave of a man. he be bend into a circle his head be sink between his shoulder and he move his foot one over the other like a bear. i could hardly see whether he walk or crawl this rag wrap whine cripple who address me by name cry that he be come back. can you give me a drink. he whimper. for the lord s sake give me a drink. 
i go back to the office the man follow with groan of pain and i turn up the lamp. 
don t you know me. he gasp drop into a chair and he turn his draw face surmount by a shock of gray hair to the light. 
i look at him intently. once before have i see eyebrow that meet over the nose in an inch broad black band but for the life of me i could not tell where. 
i don t know you i say hand him the whisky. what can i do for you. 
he take a gulp of the spirit raw and shiver in spite of the suffocate heat. 
i ve come back he repeat. and i be the king of kafiristan me and dravot crown king we be. in this office we settle it you set there and give u the book. i be peachey peachey taliaferro carnehan and you ve be set here ever since o lord. 
i be more than a little astonish and express my feeling accordingly. 
it s true say carnehan with a dry cackle nurse his foot which be wrap in rag true a gospel. king we be with crown upon our head me and dravot poor dan oh poor poor dan that would never take advice not though i beg of him. 
take the whisky i say and take your own time. tell me all you can recollect of everything from begin to end. you get across the border on your camel dravot dress a a mad priest and you his servant. do you remember that. 
i ain t mad yet but i shall be that way soon. of course i remember. keep look at me or maybe my word will go all to piece. keep look at me in my eye and don t say anything. 
i lean forward and look into his face a steadily a i could. he drop one hand upon the table and i grasp it by the wrist. it be twist like a bird s claw and upon the back be a rag red diamond shape scar. 
no don t look there. look at me say carnehan. that come afterward but for the lord s sake don t distrack me. we leave with that caravan me and dravot play all sort of antic to amuse the people we be with. dravot use to make u laugh in the evening when all the people be cook their dinner cook their dinner and. what do they do then. they light little fire with spark that go into dravot s beard and we all laugh fit to die. little red fire they be go into dravot s big red beard so funny. his eye leave mine and he smile foolishly. 
you go a far a jagdallak with that caravan i say at a venture after you have light those fire. to jagdallak where you turn off to try to get into kafiristan. 
no we didn t neither. what be you talk about. we turn off before jagdallak because we hear the road be good. but they wasn t good enough for our two camel mine and dravot s. when we leave the caravan dravot take off all his clothe and mine too and say we would be heathen because the kafir didn t allow mohammedan to talk to them. so we dress betwixt and between and such a sight a daniel dravot i never saw yet nor expect to see again. he burn half his beard and sling a sheepskin over his shoulder and shave his head into pattern. he shave mine too and make me wear outrageous thing to look like a heathen. that be in a most mountaineous country and our camel couldn t go along any more because of the mountain. they be tall and black and come home i saw them fight like wild goat there be lot of goat in kafiristan. and these mountain they never keep still no more than the goat. always fight they be and don t let you sleep at night. 
take some more whisky i say very slowly. what do you and daniel dravot do when the camel could go no farther because of the rough road that lead into kafiristan. 
what do which do. there be a party call peachey taliaferro carnehan that be with dravot. shall i tell you about him. he die out there in the cold. slap from the bridge fell old peachey turn and twist in the air like a penny whirligig that you can sell to the amir. no. they be two for three ha penny those whirligig or i be much mistake and woful sore. and then these camel be no use and peachey say to dravot for the lord s sake let s get out of this before our head be chop off and with that they kill the camel all among the mountain not have anything in particular to eat but first they take off the box with the gun and the ammunition till two men come along drive four mule. dravot up and dance in front of them sing sell me four mule. say the first man if you be rich enough to buy you be rich enough to rob. but before ever he could put his hand to his knife dravot break his neck over his knee and the other party run away. so carnehan load the mule with the rifle that be take off the camel and together we start forward into those bitter cold mountaineous part and never a road broad than the back of your hand. 
he pause for a moment while i ask him if he could remember the nature of the country through which he have journey. 
i be tell you a straight a i can but my head isn t a good a it might be. they drive nail through it to make me hear good how dravot die. the country be mountaineous and the mule be most contrary and the inhabitant be disperse and solitary. they go up and up and down and down and that other party carnehan be implore of dravot not to sing and whistle so loud for fear of bring down the tremenjus avalanche. but dravot say that if a king couldn t sing it wasn t worth be king and whack the mule over the rump and never take no heed for ten cold day. we come to a big level valley all among the mountain and the mule be near dead so we kill them not have anything in special for them or u to eat. we sit upon the box and play odd and even with the cartridge that be jolt out. 
then ten men with bow and arrow run down that valley chase twenty men with bow and arrow and the row be tremenjus. 
they be fair men fair than you or me with yellow hair and remarkable well build. say dravot unpack the gun this be the begin of the business. we ll fight for the ten men and with that he fire two rifle at the twenty men and drop one of them at two hundred yard from the rock where he be sit. the other men begin to run but carnehan and dravot sit on the box pick them off at all range up and down the valley. then we go up to the ten men that have run across the snow too and they fire a footy little arrow at u. dravot he shoot above their head and they all fall down flat. then he walk over them and kick them and then he lift them up and shake hand all round to make them friendly like. he call them and give them the box to carry and wave his hand for all the world a though he be king already. they take the box and him across the valley and up the hill into a pine wood on the top where there be half a dozen big stone idol. dravot he go to the big a fellow they call imbra and lay a rifle and a cartridge at his foot rub his nose respectfully with his own nose pat him on the head and nod his head and say that s all right. i m in the know too and these old jimjams be my friend. then he open his mouth and point down it and when the first man bring him food he say no. and when the second man bring him food he say no. but when one of the old priest and the bos of the village bring him food he say yes. very haughty and eat it slow. that be how he come to our first village without any trouble just a though we have tumble from the sky. but we tumble from one of those damn rope bridge you see and you couldn t expect a man to laugh much after that. 
take some more whisky and go on i say. that be the first village you come into. how do you get to be king. 
i wasn t king say carnehan. dravot he be the king and a handsome man he look with the gold crown on his head and all. him and the other party stay in that village and every morning dravot sit by the side of old imbra and the people come and worship. that be dravot s order. then a lot of men come into the valley and carnehan dravot pick them off with the rifle before they know where they be and run down into the valley and up again the other side and find another village same a the first one and the people all fall down flat on their face and dravot say now what be the trouble between you two village. and the people point to a woman a fair a you or me that be carry off and dravot take her back to the first village and count up the dead eight there be. for each dead man dravot pour a little milk on the grind and wave his arm like a whirligig and that s all right say he. then he and carnehan take the big bos of each village by the arm and walk them down the valley and show them how to scratch a line with a spear right down the valley and give each a sod of turf from both side of the line. then all the people come down and shout like the devil and all and dravot say go and dig the land and be fruitful and multiply which they do though they didn t understand. then we ask the name of thing in their lingo bread and water and fire and idol and such. and dravot lead the priest of each village up to the idol and say he must sit there and judge the people and if anything go wrong he be to be shoot. 
next week they be all turn up the land in the valley a quiet a bee and much pretty and the priest hear all the complaint and tell dravot in dumb show what it be about. that s just the begin say dravot. they think we re god. he and carnehan pick out twenty good men and show them how to click off a rifle and form four and advance in line. and they be very please to do so and clever to see the hang of it. then he take out his pipe and his baccy pouch and leaf one at one village and one at the other and off we two go to see what be to be do in the next valley. that be all rock and there be a little village there and carnehan say send em to the old valley to plant and take em there and give em some land that wasn t take before. they be a poor lot and we blood em with a kid before let em into the new kingdom. that be to impress the people and then they settle down quiet and carnehan go back to dravot who have get into another valley all snow and ice and most mountaineous. 
there be no people there and the army get afraid. so dravot shoot one of them and go on till he find some people in a village and the army explain that unless the people want to be kill they have good not shoot their little matchlock for they have matchlock. we make friend with the priest and i stay there alone with two of the army teach the men how to drill. and a thunder big chief come across the snow with kettledrum and horn twang because he hear there be a new god kick about. carnehan sight for the brown of the men half a mile across the snow and wing one of them. then he send a message to the chief that unless he wish to be kill he must come and shake hand with me and leave his arm behind. the chief come alone first and carnehan shake hand with him and whirl his arm about same a dravot use and very much surprise that chief be and stroke my eyebrow. then carnehan go alone to the chief and ask him in dumb show if he have an enemy he hat. i have say the chief. so carnehan weed out the pick of his men and set the two of the army to show them drill and at the end of two week the men can manoeuvre about a well a volunteer. so he march with the chief to a great big plain on the top of a mountain and the chief s men rush into a village and take it we three martini fire into the brown of the enemy. so we take that village too and i give the chief a rag from my coat and say occupy till i come. which be scriptural. by way of a reminder when me and the army be eighteen hundred yard away i drop a bullet near him stand on the snow and all the people fall flat on their face. then i send a letter to dravot wherever he be by land or by sea. 
at the risk of throw the creature out of train i interrupt. how could you write a letter up yonder. 
the letter. oh. the letter. keep look at me between the eye please. it be a string talk letter that we d learn the way of it from a blind beggar in the punjab. 
i remember that there have once come to the office a blind man with a knot twig and a piece of string which he wind round the twig accord to some cipher of his own. he could after the lapse of day or hour repeat the sentence which he have reel up. 
he have reduce the alphabet to eleven primitive sound and try to teach me his method but i could not understand. 
i send that letter to dravot say carnehan and tell him to come back because this kingdom be grow too big for me to handle. and then i strike for the first valley to see how the priest be work. they call the village we take along with the chief bashkai and the first village we take er heb. the priest at er heb be do all right but they have a lot of pending case about land to show me and some men from another village have be fire arrow at night. i go out and look for that village and fire four round at it from a thousand yard. that use all the cartridge i care to spend and i wait for dravot who have be away two or three month and i keep my people quiet. 
one morning i hear the devil s own noise of drum and horn and dan dravot march down the hill with his army and a tail of hundred of men and which be the most amaze a great gold crown on his head. my gord carnehan say daniel this be a tremenjus business and we ve get the whole country a far a it s worth have. i be the son of alexander by queen semiramis and you re my young brother and a god too. it s the big thing we ve ever see. i ve be march and fight for six week with the army and every footy little village for fifty mile ha come in rejoiceful. and more than that i ve get the key of the whole show a you ll see and i ve get a crown for you. i tell em to make two of em at a place call shu where the gold lie in the rock like suet in mutton. gold i ve see and turquoise i ve kick out of the cliff and there s garnet in the sand of the river and here s a chunk of amber that a man bring me. call up all the priest and here take your crown. 
one of the men open a black hair bag and i slip the crown on. it be too small and too heavy but i wear it for the glory. hammer gold it be five pound weight like a hoop of a barrel. 
peachey say dravot we don t want to fight no more. the craft s the trick so help me. and he bring forward that same chief that i leave at bashkai billy fish we call him afterward because he be so like billy fish that drive the big tank engine at mach on the bolan in the old day. shake hand with him say dravot. and i shake hand and nearly drop for billy fish give me the grip. i say nothing but try him with the fellow craft grip. he answer all right and i try the master s grip but that be a slip. a fellow craft he be. i say to dan. doe he know the word. he doe say dan and all the priest know. it s a miracle. the chief and the priest can work a fellow craft lodge in a way that s very like ours and they ve cut the mark on the rock but they don t know the third degree and they ve come to find out. it s gord s truth. i ve know these long year that the afghan know up to the fellow craft degree but this be a miracle. a god and a grand master of the craft be i and a lodge in the third degree i will open and we ll raise the head priest and the chief of the village. 
it s against all the law i say hold a lodge without warrant from any one. and you know we never hold office in any lodge. 
it s a master stroke o policy say dravot. it mean run the country a easy a a four wheel bogie on a down grade. we can t stop to inquire now or they ll turn against u. i ve forty chief at my heel and pass and raise accord to their merit they shall be. billet these men on the village and see that we run up a lodge of some kind. the temple of imbra will do for a lodge room. the woman must make apron a you show them. i ll hold a levee of chief tonight and lodge tomorrow. 
i be fair run off my leg but i wasn t such a fool a not to see what a pull this craft business give u. i show the priest family how to make apron of the degree but for dravot s apron the blue border and mark be make of turquoise lump on white hide not cloth. we take a great square stone in the temple for the master s chair and little stone for the officer s chair and paint the black pavement with white square and do what we could to make thing regular. 
at the levee which be hold that night on the hillside with big bonfire dravot give out that him and me be god and son of alexander and pass grand master in the craft and be come to make kafiristan a country where every man should eat in peace and drink in quiet and specially obey u. then the chief come round to shake hand and they be so hairy and white and fair it be just shake hand with old friend. we give them name accord a they be like men we have know in india billy fish holly dilworth pikky kergan that be bazaar master when i be at mhow and so on and so on. 
the most amaze miracle be at lodge next night. one of the old priest be watch u continuous and i felt uneasy for i know we d have to fudge the ritual and i didn t know what the men know. the old priest be a strange come in from beyond the village of bashkai. the minute dravot put on the master s apron that the girl have make for him the priest fetch a whoop and a howl and try to overturn the stone that dravot be sit on. it s all up now i say. that come of meddle with the craft without warrant. dravot never wink an eye not when ten priest take and tilt over the grand master s chair which be to say the stone of imbra. the priest begin rub the bottom end of it to clear away the black dirt and presently he show all the other priest the master s mark same a be on dravot s apron cut into the stone. not even the priest of the temple of imbra know it be there. the old chap fall flat on his face at dravot s foot and kiss em. luck again say dravot across the lodge to me. they say it s the miss mark that no one could understand the why of. 
we re more than safe now. then he bang the butt of his gun for a gavel and say by virtue of the authority vest in me by my own right hand and the help of peachey i declare myself grand master of all freemasonry in kafiristan in this the mother lodge o the country and king of kafiristan equally with peachey. at that he put on his crown and i put on mine i be do senior warden and we open the lodge in most ample form. it be an amaze miracle. the priest move in lodge through the first two degree almost without tell a if the memory be come back to them. after that peachey and dravot raise such a be worthy high priest and chief of far off village. billy fish be the first and i can tell you we scar the soul out of him. it be not in any way accord to ritual but it serve our turn. we didn t raise more than ten of the big men because we didn t want to make the degree common. and they be clamour to be raise. 
in another six month say dravot we ll hold another communication and see how you be work. then he ask them about their village and learn that they be fight one against the other and be sick and tire of it. and when they wasn t do that they be fight with the mohammedan. you can fight those when they come into our country say dravot. tell off every tenth man of your tribe for a frontier guard and send two hundred at a time to this valley to be drill. nobody be go to be shoot or spear any more so long a he doe well and i know that you win t cheat me because you re white people son of alexander and not like common black mohammedan. you be my people and by god say he run off into english at the end i ll make a damn fine nation of you or i ll die in the make. 
i can t tell all we do for the next six month because dravot do a lot i couldn t see the hang of and he learn their lingo in a way i never could. my work be to help the people plough and now and again go out with some of the army and see what the other village be do and make em throw rope bridge across the ravine which cut up the country horrid. dravot be very kind to me but when he walk up and down in the pine wood pull that bloody red beard of his with both fist i know he be think plan i could not advise about and i just wait for order. 
but dravot never show me disrespect before the people. they be afraid of me and the army but they love dan. he be the best of friend with the priest and the chief. but any one could come across the hill with a complaint and dravot would hear him out fair and call four priest together and say what be to be do. 
he use to call in billy fish from bashkai and pikky kergan from shu and an old chief we call kafuzelum it be like enough to his real name and hold council with em when there be any fight to be do in small village. that be his council of war and the four priest of bashkai shu khawak and madora be his privy council. between the lot of em they send me with forty men and twenty rifle and sixty men carry turquoise into the ghorband country to buy those hand make martini rifle that come out of the amir s workshop at kabul from one of the amir s herati regiment that would have sell the very teeth out of their mouth for turquoise. 
i stay in ghorband a month and give the governor there the pick of my basket for hush money and bribe the colonel of the regiment some more and between the two and the tribe people we get more than a hundred hand make martini a hundred good kohat jezails that ll throw to six hundred yard and forty man load of very bad ammunition for the rifle. i come back with what i have and distribute em among the men that the chief send in to me to drill. dravot be too busy to attend to those thing but the old army that we first make help me and we turn out five hundred men that could drill and two hundred that know how to hold arm pretty straight. even those cork screw hand make gun be a miracle to them. dravot talk big about powder shop and factory walk up and down in the pine wood when the winter be come on. 
i win t make a nation say he. i ll make an empire. these men aren t nigger. they re english. look at their eye look at their mouth. look at the way they stand up. they sit on chair in their own house. they re the lose tribe or something like it and they ve grow to be english. i ll take a census in the spring if the priest don t get frighten. there must be a fair two million of em in these hill. the village be full o little child. two million people two hundred and fifty thousand fight men and all english. they only want the rifle and a little drill. two hundred and fifty thousand men ready to cut in on russia s right flank when she try for india. peachey man he say chew his beard in great hunk we shall be emperor emperor of the earth. rajah brooke will be a suckle to u. i ll treat with the viceroy on equal term. i ll ask him to send me twelve pick english twelve that i know of to help u govern a bite. there s mackray serjeant pensioner at segowli many s the good dinner he s give me and his wife a pair of trouser. there s donkin the warder of tounghoo jail. there s hundred that i could lay my hand on if i be in india. the viceroy shall do it for me. i ll send a man through in the spring for those men and i ll write for a dispensation from the grand lodge for what i ve do a grand master. that and all the sniders that ll be throw out when the native troop in india take up the martini. they ll be wear smooth but they ll do for fight in these hill. twelve english a hundred thousand sniders run through the amir s country in driblet i d be content with twenty thousand in one year and we d be an empire. 
when everything be shipshape i d hand over the crown this crown i m wear now to queen victoria on my knee and she d say rise up sir daniel dravot. oh it s big. it s big i tell you. but there s so much to be do in every place bashkai khawak shu and everywhere else. 
what be it. i say. there be no more men come in to be drill this autumn. look at those fat black cloud. they re bring the snow. 
it isn t that say daniel put his hand very hard on my shoulder. and i don t wish to say anything that s against you for no other live man would have follow me and make me what i be a you have do. you re a first class commander in chief and the people know you. but it s a big country and somehow you can t help me peachey in the way i want to be help. 
go to your blast priest then. i say and i be sorry when i make that remark but it do hurt me sore to find daniel talk so superior when i d drill all the men and do all he tell me. 
don t let s quarrel peachey say daniel without curse. you re a king too and the half of this kingdom be yours. but can t you see peachey we want clever men than u now three or four of em that we can scatter about for our deputy. it s a hugeous great state and i can t always tell the right thing to do and i haven t time for all i want to do and here s the winter come on and all. 
he put half his beard into his mouth all red like the gold of his crown. 
i m sorry daniel say i. i ve do all i could. i ve drill the men and show the people how to stack their oat good. and i ve bring in those tinware rifle from ghorband but i know what you re drive at. i take it king always feel oppress that way. 
there s another thing too say dravot walk up and down. the winter s come and these people win t be give much trouble and if they do we can t move about. i want a wife. 
for gord s sake leave the woman alone. i say. we ve both get all the work we can though i be a fool. remember the contrack and keep clear o woman. 
the contrack only last till such time a we be king. and king we have be these month past say dravot weigh his crown in his hand. you go get a wife too peachey a nice strappin plump girl that ll keep you warm in the winter. they re pretty than english girl and we can take the pick of em. boil em once or twice in hot water and they ll come out like chicken and ham. 
don t tempt me. i say. i will not have any dealing with a woman not till we be a dam side more settle than we be now. i ve be do the work o two men and you ve be do the work of three. let s lie off a bite and see if we can get some good tobacco from afghan country and run in some good liquor. and no woman. 
who s talk o woman. say dravot. i say wife a queen to breed a king s son for the king. a queen out of the strong tribe that ll make them your blood brother and that ll lie by your side and tell you all the people think about you and their own affair. that s what i want. 
do you remember that bengali woman i keep at mogul serai when i be a plate layer. say i. a fat lot o good she be to me. she teach me the lingo and one or two other thing. but what happen. she run away with the station master s servant and half my month s pay. then she turn up at dadur junction in tow of a half caste and have the impidence to say i be her husband all among the driver in the run shed too. 
we ve do with that say dravot. these woman be white than you or me and a queen i will have for the winter month. 
for the last time o ask dan do not i say. it ll only bring u harm. the bible say that king ain t to waste their strength on woman specially when they ve get a new raw kingdom to work over. 
for the last time of answer i will say dravot and he go away through the pine tree look like a big red devil the sun be on his crown and beard and all. 
but get a wife be not a easy a dan think. he put it before the council and there be no answer till billy fish say that he d good ask the girl. dravot damn them all round. 
what s wrong with me. he shout stand by the idol imbra. be i a dog or be i not enough of a man for your wench. haven t i put the shadow of my hand over this country. who stop the last afghan raid. it be me really but dravot be too angry to remember. who buy your gun. who repair the bridge. who s the grand master of the sign cut in the stone. say he and he thump his hand on the block that he use to sit on in lodge and at council which open like lodge always. billy fish say nothing and no more do the others. keep your hair on dan say i and ask the girl. that s how it s do at home and these people be quite english. 
the marriage of the king be a matter of state say dan in a white hot rage for he could feel i hope that he be go against his good mind. he walk out of the council room and the others sit still look at the grind. 
billy fish say i to the chief of bashkai what s the difficulty here. a straight answer to a true friend. 
you know say billy fish. how should a man tell you who know everything. how can daughter of men marry god or devil. it s not proper. 
i remember something like that in the bible. but if after see u a long a they have they still believe we be god it wasn t for me to undeceive them. 
a god can do anything say i. if the king be fond of a girl he ll not let her die. she ll have to say billy fish. there be all sort of god and devil in these mountain and now and again a girl marry one of them and isn t see any more. besides you two know the mark cut in the stone. only the god know that. we think you be men till you show the sign of the master. 
i wish then that we have explain about the loss of the genuine secret of a master mason at the first go off. but i say nothing. all that night there be a blow of horn in a little dark temple half way down the hill and i hear the girl cry fit to die. one of the priest tell u that she be be prepare to marry the king. 
i ll have no nonsense of that kind say dan. i don t want to interfere with your custom but i ll take my own wife. the girl s a little bite afraid say the priest. she think she s go to die and they be a hearten of her up down in the temple. 
hearten her very tender then say dravot or i ll hearten you with the butt of a gun so you ll never want to be hearten again. 
he lick his lip do dan and stay up walk about more than half the night think of the wife that he be go to get in the morning. i wasn t any mean comfortable for i know that dealing with a woman in foreign part though you be a crown king twenty time over could not but be risky. i get up very early in the morning while dravot be asleep and i saw the priest talk together in whisper and the chief talk together too and they look at me out of the corner of their eye. 
what be up fish. i say to the bashkai man who be wrap up in his fur and look splendid to behold. 
i can t rightly say say he. but if you can make the king drop all this nonsense about marriage you ll be do him and me and yourself a great service. 
that i do believe say i. but sure you know billy a well a me have fight against and for u that the king and me be nothing more than two of the fine men that god almighty ever make. nothing more i do assure you. 
that may be say billy fish and yet i should be sorry if it be. he sink his head upon his great fur cloak for a minute and think. king say he be you man or god or devil i ll stick by you today. i have twenty of my men with me and they will follow me. we ll go to bashkai until the storm blow over. 
a little snow have fall in the night and everything be white except the greasy fat cloud that blow down and down from the north. dravot come out with his crown on his head swing his arm and stamp his foot and look more please than punch. 
for the last time drop it dan say i in a whisper. billy fish here say that there will be a row. 
a row among my people. say dravot. not much. peachey you re a fool not to get a wife too. where s the girl. say he with a voice a loud a the bray of a jackass. call up all the chief and priest and let the emperor see if his wife suit him. 
there be no need to call any one. they be all there lean on their gun and spear round the clear in the centre of the pine wood. a lot of priest go down to the little temple to bring up the girl and the horn blow fit to wake the dead. billy fish saunter round and get a close to daniel a he could and behind him stand his twenty men with matchlock not a man of them under six foot. i be next to dravot and behind me be twenty men of the regular army. up come the girl and a strap wench she be cover with silver and turquoise but white a death and look back every minute at the priest. 
she ll do say dan look her over. what s to be afraid of lass. come and kiss me. he put his arm round her. she shut her eye give a bite of a squeak and down go her face in the side of dan s flame red beard. 
the slut s bite me. say he clap his hand to his neck and sure enough his hand be red with blood. billy fish and two of his matchlock men catch hold of dan by the shoulder and drag him into the bashkai lot while the priest howl in their lingo neither god nor devil but a man. i be all take aback for a priest cut at me in front and the army behind begin fire into the bashkai men. 
god a mighty. say dan what be the mean o this. 
come back. come away. say billy fish. ruin and mutiny be the matter. we ll break for bashkai if we can. 
i try to give some sort of order to my men the men o the regular army but it be no use so i fire into the brown of em with an english martini and drill three beggar in a line. the valley be full of shout howl creature and every soul be shriek not a god nor a devil but only a man. the bashkai troop stick to billy fish all they be worth but their matchlock wasn t half a good a the kabul breech loader and four of them drop. dan be bellow like a bull for he be very wrathy. and billy fish have a hard job to prevent him run out at the crowd. 
we can t stand say billy fish. make a run for it down the valley. the whole place be against u. the matchlock men run and we go down the valley in spite of dravot. he be swear horrible and cry out that he be a king. the priest roll great stone on u and the regular army fire hard and there wasn t more than six men not count dan billy fish and me that come down to the bottom of the valley alive. 
then they stop fire and the horn in the temple blow again. 
come away for gord s sake come away. say billy fish. they ll send runner out to all the village before ever we get to bashkai. i can protect you there but i can t do anything now. 
my own notion be that dan begin to go mad in his head from that hour. he star up and down like a stick pig. then he be all for walk back alone and kill the priest with his bare hand. which he could have do. an emperor be i say daniel and next year i shall be a knight of the queen. 
all right dan say i. but come along now while there s time. 
it s your fault say he for not look after your army good. there be mutiny in the midst and you didn t know you damn engine drive plate lay missionary s pas hunt hound. he sit upon a rock and call me every foul name he could lay tongue to. i be too heart sick to care though it be all his foolishness that bring the smash. 
i m sorry dan say i but there s no account for native. this business be our fifty seven. maybe we ll make something out of it yet when we ve get to bashkai. 
let s get to bashkai then say dan and by god when i come back here again i ll sweep the valley so there isn t a bug in a blanket leave. 
we walk all that day and all that night dan be stump up and down on the snow chew his beard and mutter to himself. 
there s no hope o get clear say billy fish. the priest have send runner to the village to say that you be only men. why didn t you stick on a god till thing be more settle. i m a dead man say billy fish and he throw himself down on the snow and begin to pray to his god. 
next morning we be in a cruel bad country all up and down no level grind at all and no food either. the six bashkai men look at billy fish hungry way a if they want to ask something but they never say a word. at noon we come to the top of a flat mountain all cover with snow and when we climb up into it behold there be an army in position wait in the middle. 
the runner have be very quick say billy fish with a little bite of a laugh. they be wait for u. 
three or four men begin to fire from the enemy s side and a chance shoot take daniel in the calf of the leg. that bring him to his sens. he look across the snow at the army and see the rifle that we have bring into the country. 
we re do for say he. they be englishman these people and it s my blast nonsense that ha bring you to this. get back billy fish and take your men away. you ve do what you could and now cut for it. carnehan say he shake hand with me and go along with billy maybe they win t kill you. i ll go and meet em alone. it s me that do it. me the king. 
go. say i. go to hell dan. i m with you here. billy fish you clear out and we two will meet those folk. 
i m a chief say billy fish quite quiet. i stay with you. my men can go. 
the bashkai fellow didn t wait for a second word but run off and dan and me and billy fish walk across to where the drum be drum and the horn be horn. it be cold awful cold. i ve get that cold in the back of my head now. there s a lump of it there. 
the punka cooly have go to sleep. two kerosene lamp be blaze in the office and the perspiration pour down my face and splash on the blotter a i lean forward. carnehan be shiver and i fear that his mind might go. i wipe my face take a fresh grip of the piteously mangle hand and say what happen after that. 
the momentary shift of my eye have break the clear current. 
what be you please to say. whine carnehan. they take them without any sound. not a little whisper all along the snow not though the king knock down the first man that set hand on him not though old peachey fire his last cartridge into the brown of em. not a single solitary sound do those swine make. they just close up tight and i tell you their fur stink. there be a man call billy fish a good friend of u all and they cut his throat sir then and there like a pig. and the king kick up the bloody snow and say we ve have a dash fine run for our money. what s come next. but peachey peachey taliaferro i tell you sir in confidence a betwixt two friend he lose his head sir. no he didn t neither. the king lose his head so he do all along o one of those cunning rope bridge. kindly let me have the paper cutter sir. it tilt this way. they march him a mile across that snow to a rope bridge over a ravine with a river at the bottom. you may have see such. they prod him behind like an ox. damn your eye. say the king. d you suppose i can t die like a gentleman. 
he turn to peachey peachey that be cry like a child. i ve bring you to this peachey say he. bring you out of your happy life to be kill in kafiristan where you be late commander in chief of the emperor s force. say you forgive me peachey. i do say peachey. fully and freely do i forgive you dan. shake hand peachey say he. i m go now. out he go look neither right nor leave and when he be plumb in the middle of those dizzy dance rope cut you beggar he shout. and they cut and old dan fell turn round and round and round twenty thousand mile for he take half an hour to fall till he strike the water and i could see his body catch on a rock with the gold crown close beside. 
but do you know what they do to peachey between two pine tree. they crucify him sir a peachey s hand will show. they use wooden peg for his hand and foot. but he didn t die. he hang there and scream and they take him down next day and say it be a miracle that he wasn t dead. they take him down poor old peachey that hadn t do them any harm that hadn t do them any. 
he rock to and fro and weep bitterly wipe his eye with the back of his scar hand and moan like a child for some ten minute. 
they be cruel enough to fee him up in the temple because they say he be more of a god than old daniel that be a man. then they turn him out on the snow and tell him to go home and peachey come home in about a year beg along the road quite safe. for daniel dravot he walk before and say come along peachey. it s a big thing we re do. the mountain they dance at night and the mountain they try to fall on peachey s head but dan he hold up his hand and peachey come along bend double. he never let go of dan s hand and he never let go of dan s head. they give it to him a a present in the temple to remind him not to come again. and though the crown be pure gold and peachey be starve never would peachey sell the same. you know dravot sir. you know right worshipful brother dravot. look at him now. 
he fumble in the mass of rag round his bend waist. bring out a black horsehair bag embroider with silver thread. and shake therefrom on to my table the dry wither head of daniel dravot. the morning sun that have long be pal the lamp strike the red beard and blind sink eye. strike too a heavy circlet of gold stud with raw turquoise that carnehan place tenderly on the batter temple. 
you be old now say carnehan the emperor in his abit a he live the king of kafiristan with his crown upon his head. poor old daniel that be a monarch once. 
i shudder for in spite of defacement manifold i recognise the head of the man of marwar junction. carnehan rise to go. i attempt to stop him. he be not fit to walk abroad. let me take away the whisky and give me a little money he gasp. i be a king once. i ll go to the deputy commissioner and ask to set in the poorhouse till i get my health. no thank you i can t wait till you get a carriage for me. i ve urgent private affair in the south at marwar. 
he shamble out of the office and depart in the direction of the deputy commissioner s house. that day at noon i have occasion to go down the blind hot mall and i saw a crook man crawl along the white dust of the roadside his hat in his hand quaver dolorously after the fashion of street singer at home. there be not a soul in sight and he be out of all possible earshot of the house. and he sing through his nose turn his head from right to leave. 
the son of man go forth to war a golden crown to gain. his blood red banner stream afar who follow in his train. 
i wait to hear no more but put the poor wretch into my carriage and drive him off to the near missionary for eventual transfer to the asylum. he repeat the hymn twice while he be with me whom he do not in the least recognise and i leave him sing it to the missionary. 
two day late i inquire after his welfare of the superintendent of the asylum. 
he be admit suffer from sunstroke. he die early yesterday morning say the superintendent. be it true that he be half an hour bareheaded in the sun at midday. 
yes say i. but do you happen to know if he have anything upon him by any chance when he die. 
not to my knowledge say the superintendent. 
and there the matter rest. 
* * * * * * * *. 
the fine story in the world. 
o ever the knightly year be go with the old world to the grave i be a king in babylon and you be a christian slave. w. e. henley. 
his name be charlie mears. he be the only son of his mother who be a widow and he live in the north of london come into the city every day to work in a bank. he be twenty year old and suffer from aspiration. i meet him in a public billiard saloon where the marker call him by his give name and he call the marker bull eye. charley explain a little nervously that he have only come to the place to look on and since look on at game of skill be not a cheap amusement for the young i suggest that charlie should go back to his mother. 
that be our first step toward good acquaintance. he would call on me sometimes in the evening instead of run about london with his fellow clerk. and before long speak of himself a a young man must he tell me of his aspiration which be all literary. he desire to make himself an undying name chiefly through verse though he be not above send story of love and death to the drop a penny in the slot journal. it be my fate to sit still while charlie read me poem of many hundred line and bulky fragment of play that would surely shake the world. my reward be his unreserved confidence and the self revelation and trouble of a young man be almost a holy a those of a maiden. 
charlie have never fall in love but be anxious to do so on the first opportunity. he believe in all thing good and all thing honorable but at the same time be curiously careful to let me see that he know his way about the world a befit a bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week. he rhyme dive with love and moon with june and devoutly believe that they have never so be rhyme before. the long lame gap in his play he fill up with hasty word of apology and description and sweep on see all that he intend to do so clearly that he esteem it already do and turn to me for applause. 
i fancy that his mother do not encourage his aspiration and i know that his write table at home be the edge of his washstand. this he tell me almost at the outset of our acquaintance. when he be ravage my bookshelf and a little before i be implore to speak the truth a to his chance of write something really great you know. maybe i encourage him too much for one night he call on me his eye flame with excitement and say breathlessly. 
do you mind can you let me stay here and write all this even. i win t interrupt you i win t really. there s no place for me to write in at my mother s. 
what s the trouble. i say know well what that trouble be. 
i ve a notion in my head that would make the most splendid story that be ever write. do let me write it out here. it s such a notion. 
there be no resist the appeal. i set him a table. he hardly thank me but plunge into the work at once. for half an hour the pen scratch without stop. then charlie sigh and tug his hair. the scratch grow slow there be more erasure and at last cease. the fine story in the world would not come forth. 
it look such awful rot now he say mournfully. and yet it seem so good when i be think about it. what s wrong. 
i could not dishearten him by say the truth. so i answer. perhaps you don t feel in the mood for write. 
yes i do except when i look at this stuff. ugh. 
read me what you ve do i say. he read and it be wondrous bad and he pause at all the specially turgid sentence expect a little approval. for he be proud of those sentence a i know he would be. 
it need compression i suggest cautiously. 
i hate cut my thing down. i don t think you could alter a word here without spoil the sense. it read good aloud than when i be write it. 
charlie you re suffer from an alarm disease afflict a numerous class. put the thing by and tackle it again in a week. 
i want to do it at once. what do you think of it. 
how can i judge from a half write tale. tell me the story a it lie in your head. 
charlie tell and in the tell there be everything that his ignorance have so carefully prevent from escape into the write word. i look at him and wonder whether it be possible that he do not know the originality the power of the notion that have come in his way. it be distinctly a notion among notion. men have be puff up with pride by notion not a tithe a excellent and practicable. but charlie babble on serenely interrupt the current of pure fancy with sample of horrible sentence that he purpose to use. i hear him out to the end. it would be folly to allow his idea to remain in his own inept hand when i could do so much with it. not all that could be do indeed. but oh so much. 
what do you think. he say at last. i fancy i shall call it the story of a ship. 
i think the idea s pretty good. but you win t he able to handle it for ever so long. now i. 
would it be of any use to you. would you care to take it. i should be proud say charlie promptly. 
there be few thing sweet in this world than the guileless hot head intemperate open admiration of a junior. even a woman in her blind devotion doe not fall into the gait of the man she adore tilt her bonnet to the angle at which he wear his hat or interlard her speech with his pet oath. and charlie do all these thing. still it be necessary to salve my conscience before i possess myself of charlie s thought. 
let s make a bargain. i ll give you a five for the notion i say. 
charlie become a bank clerk at once. 
oh that s impossible. between two pal you know if i may call you so and speak a a man of the world i couldn t. take the notion if it s any use to you. i ve heap more. 
he have none know this good than i but they be the notion of other men. 
look at it a a matter of business between men of the world i return. five pound will buy you any number of poetry book. business be business and you may be sure i shouldn t give that price unless. 
oh if you put it that way say charlie visibly move by the think of the book. the bargain be clinch with an agreement that he should at unstated interval come to me with all the notion that he possess should have a table of his own to write at and unquestioned right to inflict upon me all his poem and fragment of poem. then i say now tell me how you come by this idea. 
it come by itself. charlie s eye open a little. 
yes but you tell me a great deal about the hero that you must have read before somewhere. 
i haven t any time for read except when you let me sit here and on sunday i m on my bicycle or down the river all day. there s nothing wrong about the hero be there. 
tell me again and i shall understand clearly. you say that your hero go pirate. how do he live. 
he be on the low deck of this ship thing that i be tell you about. 
what sort of ship. 
it be the kind row with oar and the sea spurt through the oar hole and the men row sit up to their knee in water. then there s a bench run down between the two line of oar and an overseer with a whip walk up and down the bench to make the men work. 
how do you know that. 
it s in the table. there s a rope run overhead loop to the upper deck for the overseer to catch hold of when the ship roll. when the overseer miss the rope once and fall among the rower remember the hero laugh at him and get lick for it. he s chain to his oar of course the hero. 
how be he chain. 
with an iron band round his waist fix to the bench he sit on and a sort of handcuff on his leave wrist chain him to the oar. he s on the low deck where the bad men be send and the only light come from the hatchway and through the oar hole. can t you imagine the sunlight just squeeze through between the handle and the hole and wobble about a the ship move. 
i can but i can t imagine your imagine it. 
how could it be any other way. now you listen to me. the long oar on the upper deck be manage by four men to each bench the low one by three and the low of all by two. remember it s quite dark on the low deck and all the men there go mad. when a man dy at his oar on that deck he isn t throw overboard but cut up in his chain and stuff through the oar hole in little piece. 
why. i demand amaze not so much at the information a the tone of command in which it be fling out. 
to save trouble and to frighten the others. it need two overseer to drag a man s body up to the top deck. and if the men at the low deck oar be leave alone of course they d stop row and try to pull up the bench by all stand up together in their chain. 
you ve a most provident imagination. where have you be read about galley and galley slave. 
nowhere that i remember. i row a little when i get the chance. but perhaps if you say so i may have read something. 
he go away shortly afterward to deal with bookseller and i wonder how a bank clerk age twenty could put into my hand with a profligate abundance of detail all give with absolute assurance the story of extravagant and bloodthirsty adventure riot piracy and death in unnamed sea. he have lead his hero a desperate dance through revolt against the overseas to command of a ship of his own and ultimate establishment of a kingdom on an island somewhere in the sea you know. and delight with my paltry five pound have go out to buy the notion of other men that these might teach him how to write. i have the consolation of know that this notion be mine by right of purchase and i think that i could make something of it. 
when next he come to me he be drink royally drink on many poet for the first time reveal to him. his pupil be dilate his word tumble over each other and he wrap himself in quotation. most of all be he drink with longfellow. 
isn t it splendid. isn t it superb. he cry after hasty greeting. 
listen to this. 
wouldst thou so the helmsman answer know the secret of the sea. only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. 
by gum. 
only those who brave it danger comprehend it mystery. he repeat twenty time walk up and down the room and forget me. but i can understand it too he say to himself. i don t know how to thank you for that five. and this. listen. 
i remember the black wharf and the ship and the sea tide toss free and the spanish sailor with beard lip and the beauty and mystery of the ship and the magic of the sea. 
i haven t brave any danger but i feel a if i know all about it. 
you certainly seem to have a grip of the sea. have you ever see it. 
when i be a little chap i go to brighton once. we use to live in coventry though before we come to london. i never saw it. 
when descend on the atlantic the gigantic storm wind of the equinox. 
he shake me by the shoulder to make me understand the passion that be shake himself. 
when that storm come he continue i think that all the oar in the ship that i be talk about get break and the rower have their chest smash in by the buck oar head. by the way have you do anything with that notion of mine yet. 
no. i be wait to hear more of it from you. tell me how in the world you re so certain about the fitting of the ship. you know nothing of ship. 
i don t know. it s a real a anything to me until i try to write it down. i be think about it only last night in bed after you have loan me treasure island. and i make up a whole lot of new thing to go into the story. 
what sort of thing. 
about the food the men eat. rotten fig and black bean and wine in a skin bag pass from bench to bench. 
be the ship build so long ago a that. 
a what. i don t know whether it be long ago or not. it s only a notion but sometimes it seem just a real a if it be true. do i bother you with talk about it. 
not in the least. do you make up anything else. 
yes but it s nonsense. charlie flush a little. 
never mind. let s hear about it. 
well i be think over the story and after awhile i get out of bed and write down on a piece of paper the sort of stuff the men might be suppose to scratch on their oar with the edge of their handcuff. it seem to make the thing more lifelike. it be so real to me y know. 
have you the paper on you. 
ye e but what s the use of show it. it s only a lot of scratch. all the same we might have em reproduce in the book on the front page. 
i ll attend to those detail. show me what your men write. 
he pull out of his pocket a sheet of note paper with a single line of scratch upon it and i put this carefully away. 
what be it suppose to mean in english. i say. 
oh i don t know. perhaps it mean i m beastly tire. it s great nonsense he repeat but all those men in the ship seem a real people to me. do do something to the notion soon. i should like to see it write and print. 
but all you ve tell me would make a long book. 
make it then. you ve only to sit down and write it out. 
give me a little time. have you any more notion. 
not just now. i m read all the book i ve buy. they re splendid. 
when he have leave i look at the sheet of note paper with the inscription upon it. then i take my head tenderly between both hand to make certain that it be not come off or turn round. 
then but there seem to be no interval between quit my room and find myself argue with a policeman outside a door mark private in a corridor of the british museum. all i demand a politely a possible be the greek antiquity man. the policeman know nothing except the rule of the museum and it become necessary to forage through all the house and office inside the gate. an elderly gentleman call away from his lunch put an end to my search by hold the note paper between finger and thumb and sniff at it scornfully. 
what doe this mean. h mm say he. so far a i can ascertain it be an attempt to write extremely corrupt greek on the part here he glare at me with intention of an extremely illiterate ah person. he read slowly from the paper pollock erckman tauchnitz henniker four name familiar to me. 
can you tell me what the corruption be suppose to mean the gist of the thing. i ask. 
i have be many time overcome with weariness in this particular employment. that be the mean. he return me the paper and i flee without a word of thank explanation or apology. 
i might have be excuse for forget much. to me of all men have be give the chance to write the most marvelous tale in the world nothing le than the story of a greek galley slave a tell by himself. small wonder that his dream have seem real to charlie. the fate that be so careful to shut the door of each successive life behind u have in this case be neglectful and charlie be look though that he do not know where never man have be permit to look with full knowledge since time begin. above all he be absolutely ignorant of the knowledge sell to me for five pound. and he would retain that ignorance for bank clerk do not understand metempsychosis and a sound commercial education doe not include greek. he would supply me here i caper among the dumb god of egypt and laugh in their batter face with material to make my tale sure so sure that the world would hail it a an impudent and vamp fiction. and i i alone would know that it be absolutely and literally true. i alone hold this jewel to my hand for the cut and polish. 
therefore i dance again among the god till a policeman saw me and take step in my direction. 
it remain now only to encourage charlie to talk and here there be no difficulty. but i have forget those accurse book of poetry. he come to me time after time a useless a a surcharge phonograph drink on byron shelley or keats. know now what the boy have be in his past life and desperately anxious not to lose one word of his babble i could not hide from him my respect and interest. he misconstrue both into respect for the present soul of charlie mears to whom life be a new a it be to adam and interest in his reading. and stretch my patience to break point by recite poetry not his own now but that of others. i wish every english poet blot out of the memory of mankind. i blaspheme the mighty name of song because they have draw charlie from the path of direct narrative and would late spur him to imitate them. but i choke down my impatience until the first flood of enthusiasm should have spend itself and the boy return to his dream. 
what s the use of my tell you what i think when these chap write thing for the angel to read. he growl one even. why don t you write something like theirs. 
i don t think you re treat me quite fairly i say speak under strong restraint. 
i ve give you the story he say shortly replunging into lara. 
but i want the detail. 
the thing i make up about that damn ship that you call a galley. they re quite easy. you can just make em up yourself. turn up the gas a little i want to go on read. 
i could have break the gas globe over his head for his amaze stupidity. i could indeed make up thing for myself do i only know what charlie do not know that he know. but since the door be shut behind me i could only wait his youthful pleasure and strive to keep him in good temper. one minute s want of guard might spoil a priceless revelation. now and again he would toss his book aside he keep them in my room for his mother would have be shock at the waste of good money have she see them and launch into his sea dream. again i curse all the poet of england. the plastic mind of the bank clerk have be overlay color and distort by that which he have read and the result a deliver be a confuse tangle of other voice most like the mutter song through a city telephone in the busy part of the day. 
he talk of the galley his own galley have he but know it with illustration borrow from the bride of abydos. he point the experience of his hero with quotation from the corsair and throw in deep and desperate moral reflection from cain and manfred expect me to use them all. only when the talk turn on longfellow be the jar cross current dumb and i know that charlie be speak the truth a he remember it. 
what do you think of this. i say one even a soon a i understand the medium in which his memory work best and before he could expostulate read him the whole of the saga of king olaf. 
he listen open mouth flush his hand drum on the back of the sofa where he lay till i come to the song of emar tamberskelver and the verse. 
emar then the arrow take from the loosen string answer. that be norway break neath thy hand o king. 
he gasp with pure delight of sound. 
that s good than byron a little i venture. 
good. why it s true. how could he have know. 
i go back and repeat. 
what be that. say olaf stand on the quarter deck something hear i like the strand of a shatter wreck. 
how could he have know how the ship crash and the oar rip out and go z zzp all along the line. why only the other night but go back please and read the skerry of shriek again. 
no i m tire. let s talk. what happen the other night. 
i have an awful nightmare about that galley of ours. i dream i be drown in a fight. you see we run alongside another ship in harbor. the water be dead still except where our oar whip it up. you know where i always sit in the galley. he speak haltingly at first under a fine english fear of be laugh at. 
no. that s news to me i answer meekly my heart begin to beat. 
on the fourth oar from the bow on the right side on the upper deck. there be four of u at the oar all chain. i remember watch the water and try to get my handcuff off before the row begin. then we close up on the other ship and all their fight men jump over our bulwark and my bench break and i be pin down with the three other fellow on top of me and the big oar jam across our back. 
well. charlie s eye be alive and alight. he be look at the wall behind my chair. 
i don t know how we fight. the men be trample all over my back and i lay low. then our rower on the leave side tie to their oar you know begin to yell and back water. i could hear the water sizzle and we spin round like a cockchafer and i know lie where i be that there be a galley come up bow on to ram u on the leave side. i could just lift up my head and see her sail over the bulwark. we want to meet her bow to bow but it be too late. we could only turn a little bite because the galley on our right have hook herself on to u and stop our move. then by gum. there be a crash. our leave oar begin to break a the other galley the move one y know stick her nose into them. then the low deck oar shoot up through the deck plank butt first and one of them jump clean up into the air and come down again close to my head. 
how be that manage. 
the move galley s bow be plunk them back through their own oarholes and i could hear the devil of a shindy in the deck below. then her nose catch u nearly in the middle and we tilt sideways and the fellow in the right hand galley unhitch their hook and rope and throw thing on to our upper deck arrow and hot pitch or something that sting and we go up and up and up on the leave side and the right side dip and i twist my head round and saw the water stand still a it top the right bulwark and then it curl over and crash down on the whole lot of u on the right side and i felt it hit my back and i wake. 
one minute charlie. when the sea top the bulwark what do it look like. i have my reason for ask. a man of my acquaintance have once go down with a leak ship in a still sea and have see the water level pause for an instant ere it fell on the deck. 
it look just like a banjo string draw tight and it seem to stay there for year say charlie. 
exactly. the other man have say. it look like a silver wire lay down along the bulwark and i think it be never go to break. he have pay everything except the bare life for this little valueless piece of knowledge and i have travel ten thousand weary mile to meet him and take his knowledge at second hand. but charlie the bank clerk on twenty five shilling a week he who have never be out of sight of a london omnibus know it all. it be no consolation to me that once in his life he have be force to die for his gain. i also must have die score of time but behind me because i could have use my knowledge the door be shut. 
and then. i say try to put away the devil of envy. 
the funny thing be though in all the mess i didn t feel a bite astonish or frighten. it seem a if i d be in a good many fight because i tell my next man so when the row begin. but that cad of an overseer on my deck wouldn t unloose our chain and give u a chance. he always say that we d all he set free after a battle but we never be. we never be. charlie shake his head mournfully. 
what a scoundrel. 
i should say he be. he never give u enough to eat and sometimes we be so thirsty that we use to drink salt water. i can taste that salt water still. 
now tell me something about the harbor where the fight be fight. 
i didn t dream about that. i know it be a harbor though. because we be tie up to a ring on a white wall and all the face of the stone under water be cover with wood to prevent our ram get chip when the tide make u rock. 
that s curious. our hero command the galley. didn t he. 
didn t he just. he stand by the bow and shout like a good un. he be the man who kill the overseer. 
but you be all drown together charlie weren t you. 
i can t make that fit quite he say with a puzzle look. the galley must have go down with all hand and yet i fancy that the hero go on live afterward. perhaps he climb into the attack ship. i wouldn t see that of course. i be dead you know. 
he shiver slightly and protest that he could remember no more. 
i do not press him further but to satisfy myself that he lay in ignorance of the working of his own mind deliberately introduce him to mortimer collins s transmigration and give him a sketch of the plot before he open the page. 
what rot it all be. he say frankly at the end of an hour. i don t understand his nonsense about the red planet mar and the king and the rest of it. chuck me the longfellow again. 
i hand him the book and write out a much a i could remember of his description of the sea fight appeal to him from time to time for confirmation of fact or detail. he would answer without raise his eye from the book a assuredly a though all his knowledge lay before flint on the print page. i speak under the normal key of my voice that the current might not be break and i know that he be not aware of what he be say for his thought be out on the sea with longfellow. 
charlie i ask when the rower on the galley mutiny how do they kill their overseer. 
tear up the bench and brain em. that happen when a heavy sea be run. an overseer on the low deck slip from the centre plank and fell among the rower. they choke him to death against the side of the ship with their chain hand quite quietly and it be too dark for the other overseer to see what have happen. when he ask he be pull down too and choke and the low deck fight their way up deck by deck with the piece of the break bench bang behind em. how they howl. 
and what happen after that. 
i don t know. the hero go away red hair and red beard and all. that be after he have capture our galley i think. 
the sound of my voice irritate him and he motion slightly with his leave hand a a man doe when interruption jar. 
you never tell me he be redheaded before or that he capture your galley i say after a discreet interval. 
charlie do not raise his eye. 
he be a red a a red bear say he abstractedly. he come from the north. they say so in the galley when he look for rower not slave but free men. afterward year and year afterward news come from another ship or else he come back his lip move in silence. he be rapturously retasting some poem before him. 
where have he be then. i be almost whisper that the sentence might come gentle to whichever section of charlie s brain be work on my behalf. 
to the beach the long and wonderful beach. be the reply after a minute of silence. 
to furdurstrandi. i ask tingle from head to foot. 
yes to furdurstrandi he pronounce the word in a new fashion and i too saw the voice fail. 
do you know what you have say. i shout incautiously. 
he lift his eye fully rouse now. no. he snap. i wish you d let a chap go on read. hark to this. 
but othere the old sea captain he neither pause nor stir till the king listen and then once more take up his pen and write down every word. 
and to the king of the saxon in witness of the truth raise his noble head he stretch his brown hand and say behold this walrus tooth. 
by jove what chap those must have be to go sail all over the shop never know where they d fetch the land. hah. 
charlie i plead if you ll only be sensible for a minute or two i ll make our hero in our tale every inch a good a othere. 
umph. longfellow write that poem. i don t care about write thing any more. i want to read. he be thoroughly out of tune now and rag over my own ill luck i leave him. 
conceive yourself at the door of the world s treasure house guard by a child an idle irresponsible child play knuckle bone on whose favor depend the gift of the key and you will imagine one half my torment. till that even charlie have speak nothing that might not lie within the experience of a greek galley slave. but now or there be no virtue in book he have talk of some desperate adventure of the viking of thorfin karlsefne s sail to wineland which be america in the ninth or tenth century. the battle in the harbor he have see. and his own death he have describe. but this be a much more startle plunge into the past. be it possible that he have skip half a dozen life and be then dimly remember some episode of a thousand year late. it be a madden jumble and the bad of it be that charlie mears in his normal condition be the last person in the world to clear it up. i could only wait and watch but i go to bed that night full of the wild imagine. there be nothing that be not possible if charlie s detestable memory only hold good. 
i might rewrite the saga of thorfin karlsefne a it have never be write before might tell the story of the first discovery of america myself the discoverer. but i be entirely at charlie s mercy and so long a there be a three and six penny bohn volume within his reach charlie would not tell. i dare not curse him openly. i hardly dare jog his memory for i be deal with the experience of a thousand year ago tell through the mouth of a boy of today. and a boy of today be affect by every change of tone and gust of opinion so that he lie even when he desire to speak the truth. 
i saw no more of him for nearly a week. when next i meet him it be in gracechurch street with a billbook chain to his waist. 
business take him over london bridge and i accompany him. he be very full of the importance of that book and magnify it. 
a we pass over the thames we pause to look at a steamer unload great slab of white and brown marble. a barge drift under the steamer s stern and a lonely cow in that barge bellow. 
charlie s face change from the face of the bank clerk to that of an unknown and though he would not have believe this a much shrewd man. he fling out his arm across the parapet of the bridge and laugh very loudly say. when they hear our bull bellow the skroelings run away. 
i wait only for an instant but the barge and the cow have disappear under the bow of the steamer before i answer. 
charlie what do you suppose be skroelings. 
never hear of em before. they sound like a new kind of seagull. what a chap you be for ask question. he reply. i have to go to the cashier of the omnibus company yonder. will you wait for me and we can lunch somewhere together. i ve a notion for a poem. 
no thank. i m off. you re sure you know nothing about skroelings. 
not unless he s be enter for the liverpool handicap. he nod and disappear in the crowd. 
now it be write in the saga of eric the red or that of thorfin karlsefne that nine hundred year ago when karlsefne s galley come to leif s booth which leif have erect in the unknown land call markland which may or may not have be rhode island the skroelings and the lord he know who these may or may not have be come to trade with the viking and run away because they be frighten at the bellow of the cattle which thorfin have bring with him in the ship. but what in the world could a greek slave know of that affair. i wander up and down among the street try to unravel the mystery and the more i consider it the more baffle it grow. one thing only seem certain and that certainty take away my breath for the moment. if i come to full knowledge of anything at all it would not be one life of the soul in charlie mears s body but half a dozen half a dozen several and separate existence spend on blue water in the morning of the world. 
then i walk round the situation. 
obviously if i use my knowledge i should stand alone and unapproachable until all men be a wise a myself. that would be something but manlike i be ungrateful. it seem bitterly unfair that charlie s memory should fail me when i need it most. 
great power above i look up at them through the fog smoke do the lord of life and death know what this mean to me. nothing le than eternal fame of the best kind. that come from one and be share by one alone. i would be content remember clive i stand astound at my own moderation with the mere right to tell one story to work out one little contribution to the light literature of the day. if charlie be permit full recollection for one hour for sixty short minute of existence that have extend over a thousand year i would forego all profit and honor from all that i should make of his speech. i would take no share in the commotion that would follow throughout the particular corner of the earth that call itself the world. the thing should be put forth anonymously. nay i would make other men believe that they have write it. they would hire bull hide self advertise englishman to bellow it abroad. preacher would find a fresh conduct of life upon it swear that it be new and that they have lift the fear of death from all mankind. every orientalist in europe would patronize it discursively with sanskrit and pali text. terrible woman would invent unclean variant of the men s belief for the elevation of their sister. church and religion would war over it. between the hail and re start of an omnibus i foresee the scuffle that would arise among half a dozen denomination all profess the doctrine of the true metempsychosis a apply to the world and the new era. and saw too the respectable english newspaper shy like frighten kine over the beautiful simplicity of the tale. the mind leap forward a hundred two hundred a thousand year. i saw with sorrow that men would mutilate and garble the story. that rival creed would turn it upside down till at last the western world which cling to the dread of death more closely than the hope of life would set it aside a an interest superstition and stampede after some faith so long forget that it seem altogether new. upon this i change the term of the bargain that i would make with the lord of life and death. only let me know let me write the story with sure knowledge that i write the truth and i would burn the manuscript a a solemn sacrifice. five minute after the last line be write i would destroy it all. but i must be allow to write it with absolute certainty. 
there be no answer. the flame color of an aquarium poster catch my eye and i wonder whether it would be wise or prudent to lure charlie into the hand of the professional mesmerist and whether if he be under his power he would speak of his past life. if he do and if people believe him but charlie would be frighten and fluster or make conceited by the interview. in either case he would begin to lie through fear or vanity. he be safe in my own hand. 
they be very funny fool your english say a voice at my elbow and turn round i recognize a casual acquaintance a young bengali law student call grish chunder whose father have send him to england to become civilize. the old man be a retire native official and on an income of five pound a month contrive to allow his son two hundred pound a year and the run of his teeth in a city where he could pretend to be the cadet of a royal house and tell story of the brutal indian bureaucrat who grind the face of the poor. 
grish chunder be a young fat full body bengali dress with scrupulous care in frock coat tall hat light trouser and tan glove. but i have know him in the day when the brutal indian government pay for his university education and he contribute cheap sedition to sachi durpan and intrigue with the wife of his schoolmate. 
that be very funny and very foolish he say nod at the poster. i be go down to the northbrook club. will you come too. 
i walk with him for some time. you be not well he say. what be there in your mind. you do not talk. 
grish chunder you ve be too well educate to believe in a god haven t vou. 
oah yes here. but when i go home i must conciliate popular superstition and make ceremony of purification and my woman will anoint idol. 
and bang up tulsi and feast the purohit and take you back into caste again and make a good khuttri of you again you advance social free thinker. and you ll eat desi food and like it all from the smell in the courtyard to the mustard oil over you. 
i shall very much like it say grish chunder unguardedly. once a hindu always a hindu. but i like to know what the english think they know. 
i ll tell you something that one englishman know. it s an old tale to you. 
i begin to tell the story of charlie in english but grish chunder put a question in the vernacular and the history go forward naturally in the tongue best suit for it tell. after all it could never have be tell in english. grish chunder hear me nod from time to time and then come up to my room where i finish the tale. 
beshak he say philosophically. lekin darwaza band hai. without doubt but the door be shut. i have hear of this remember of previous existence among my people. it be of course an old tale with u but to happen to an englishman a cow feed malechk an outcast. by jove that be most peculiar. 
outcast yourself grish chunder. you eat cow beef every day. let s think the thing over. the boy remember his incarnation. 
doe he know that. say grish chunder quietly swing his leg a he sit on my table. he be speak in english now. 
he doe not know anything. would i speak to you if he do. go on. 
there be no go on at all. if you tell that to your friend they will say you be mad and put it in the paper. suppose now you prosecute for libel. 
let s leave that out of the question entirely. be there any chance of his be make to speak. 
there be a chance. oah yes. but if he speak it would mean that all this world would end now instanto fall down on your head. these thing be not allow you know. a i say the door be shut. 
not a ghost of a chance. 
how can there be. you be a christian and it be forbid to eat in your book of the tree of life or else you would never die. how shall you all fear death if you all know what your friend doe not know that he know. i be afraid to be kick but i be not afraid to die because i know what i know. you be not afraid to be kick but you be afraid to die. if you be not by god. you english would be all over the shop in an hour upset the balance of power and make commotion. it would not be good. but no fear. he will remember a little and a little le and he will call it dream. then he will forget altogether. when i pass my first art examination in calcutta that be all in the cram book on wordsworth. trail cloud of glory you know. 
this seem to be an exception to the rule. 
there be no exception to rule. some be not so hard look a others but they be all the same when you touch. if this friend of yours say so and so and so and so indicate that he remember all his lose life or one piece of a lose life he would not be in the bank another hour. he would be what you call sack because he be mad and they would send him to an asylum for lunatic. you can see that my friend. 
of course i can but i wasn t think of him. his name need never appear in the story. 
ah. i see. that story will never be write. you can try. 
i be go to. 
for your own credit and for the sake of money of course. 
no. for the sake of write the story. on my honor that will be all. 
even then there be no chance. you cannot play with the god. it be a very pretty story now. a they say let it go on that i mean at that. be quick. he will not last long. 
how do you mean. 
what i say. he ha never so far think about a woman. 
hasn t he though. i remember some of charlie s confidence. 
i mean no woman ha think about him. when that come. bushogya all up i know. there be million of woman here. housemaid for instance. 
i wince at the think of my story be ruin by a housemaid. 
and yet nothing be more probable. 
grish chunder grin. 
yes also pretty girl cousin of his house and perhaps not of his house. one kiss that he give back again and remember will cure all this nonsense. or else. 
or else what. remember he doe not know that he know. 
i know that. or else if nothing happen he will become immerse in the trade and the financial speculation like the rest. it must be so. you can see that it must be so. but the woman will come first i think. 
there be a rap at the door and charlie charge in impetuously. he have be release from office and by the look in his eye i could see that he have come over for a long talk. most probably with poem in his pocket. charlie s poem be very weary but sometimes they lead him to talk about the galley. 
grish chunder look at him keenly for a minute. 
i beg your pardon charlie say uneasily. i didn t know you have any one with you. 
i be go say grish chunder. 
he draw me into the lobby a he depart. 
that be your man he say quickly. i tell you he will never speak all you wish. that be rot bosh. but he would be most good to make to see thing. suppose now we pretend that it be only play i have never see grish chunder so excite and pour the ink pool into his hand. eh what do you think. i tell you that he could see anything that a man could see. let me get the ink and the camphor. he be a seer and he will tell u very many thing. 
he may be all you say but i m not go to trust him to your god and devil. 
it will not hurt him. he will only feel a little stupid and dull when he wake up. you have see boy look into the ink pool before. 
that be the reason why i be not go to see it any more. you d good go grish chunder. 
he go declare far down the staircase that it be throw away my only chance of look into the future. 
this leave me unmoved for i be concern for the past and no peer of hypnotize boy into mirror and ink pool would help me do that. but i recognize grish chunder s point of view and sympathize with it. 
what a big black brute that be. say charlie when i return to him. well look here i ve just do a poem. dil it instead of play domino after lunch. may i read it. 
let me read it to myself. 
then you miss the proper expression. besides you always make my thing sound a if the rhyme be all wrong. 
read it aloud then. you re like the rest of em. 
charlie mouth me his poem and it be not much bad than the average of his verse. he have be read his book faithfully but he be not please when i tell him that i prefer my longfellow undiluted with charlie. 
then we begin to go through the m. line by line. charlie parry every objection and correction with. yes that may be good but you don t catch what i m drive at. 
charlie be in one way at least very like one kind of poet. 
there be a pencil scrawl at the back of the paper and what s that. i say. 
oh that s not poetry t all. it s some rot i write last night before i go to bed and it be too much bother to hunt for rhyme. so i make it a sort of a blank verse instead. 
here be charlie s blank verse. 
we pull for you when the wind be against u and the sail be low. will you never let u go. 
we eat bread and onion when you take town or run aboard quickly when you be beat back by the foe the captain walk up and down the deck in fair weather sing song but we be below. 
we faint with our chin on the oar and you do not see that we be idle for we still swing to and fro. will you never let u go. 
the salt make the oar handle like sharkskin. our knee be cut to the bone with salt crack. our hair be stick to our forehead. and our lip be cut to our gum and you whip u because we could not row. will you never let u go. 
but in a little time we shall run out of the porthole a the water run along the oarblade and though you tell the others to row after u you will never catch u till you catch the oar thresh and tie up the wind in the belly of the sail. aho. will you never let u go. 
h m. what s oar thresh charlie. 
the water wash up by the oar. that s the sort of song they might sing in the galley y know. aren t you ever go to finish that story and give me some of the profit. 
it depend on yourself. if you have only tell me more about your hero in the first instance it might have be finish by now. you re so hazy in your notion. 
i only want to give you the general notion of it the knock about from place to place and the fight and all that. can t you fill in the rest yourself. make the hero save a girl on a pirate galley and marry her or do something. 
you re a really helpful collaborator. i suppose the hero go through some few adventure before he marry. 
well then make him a very artful card a low sort of man a sort of political man who go about make treaty and break them a black haired chap who hide behind the mast when the fight begin. 
but you say the other day that he be red haired. 
i couldn t have. make him black haired of course. you ve no imagination. 
see that i have just discover the entire principle upon which the half memory falsely call imagination be base i felt entitle to laugh but forbear for the sake of the tale. 
you re right. you re the man with imagination. a black haired chap in a deck ship i say. 
no an open ship like a big boat. 
this be madden. 
your ship ha be build and design close and deck in. you say so yourself i protest. 
no no not that ship. that be open or half deck because by jove you re right. you make me think of the hero a a red haired chap. of course if he be red the ship would be an open one with paint sail. 
surely i think he would remember now that he have serve in two galley at least in a three deck greek one under the black haired political man and again in a viking s open sea serpent under the man red a a red bear who go to markland. the devil prompt me to speak. 
why of course charlie. say i. i don t know. be you make fun of me. 
the current be break for the time be. i take up a notebook and pretend to make many entry in it. 
it s a pleasure to work with an imaginative chap like yourself i say after a pause. the way that you ve bring out the character of the hero be simply wonderful. 
do you think so. he answer with a please flush. i often tell myself that there s more in me than my than people think. 
there s an enormous amount in you. 
then win t you let me send an essay on the way of bank clerk to tit bit and get the guinea prize. 
that wasn t exactly what i mean old fellow. perhaps it would be good to wait a little and go ahead with the galley story. 
ah but i sha n t get the credit of that. tit bit would publish my name and address if i win. what be you grin at. they would. 
i know it. suppose you go for a walk. i want to look through my note about our story. 
now this reprehensible youth who leave me a little hurt and put back might for aught he or i know have be one of the crew of the argo have be certainly slave or comrade to thorfin karlsefne. therefore he be deeply interest in guinea competition. remember what grish chunder have say i laugh aloud. the lord of life and death would never allow charlie mears to speak with full knowledge of his past and i must even piece out what he have tell me with my own poor invention while charlie write of the way of bank clerk. 
i get together and place on one file all my note. and the net result be not cheer. i read them a second time. there be nothing that might not have be compile at second hand from other people s book except perhaps the story of the fight in the harbor. the adventure of a viking bad be write many time before. the history of a greek galley slave be no new thing and though i write both who could challenge or confirm the accuracy of my detail. i might a well tell a tale of two thousand year hence. the lord of life and death be a cunning a grish chunder have hint. they would allow nothing to escape that might trouble or make easy the mind of men. though i be convince of this yet i could not leave the tale alone. exaltation follow reaction not once but twenty time in the next few week. my mood vary with the march sunlight and fly cloud. by night or in the beauty of a spring morning i perceive that i could write that tale and shift continent thereby. in the wet windy afternoon i saw that the tale might indeed be write but would be nothing more than a fake false varnish sham rust piece of wardour street work at the end. then i bless charlie in many way though it be no fault of his. he seem to be busy with prize competition and i saw le and le of him a the week go by and the earth crack and grow ripe to spring and the bud swell in their sheath. he do not care to read or talk of what he have read and there be a new ring of self assertion in his voice. i hardly care to remind him of the galley when we meet. but charlie allude to it on every occasion always a a story from which money be to be make. 
i think i deserve twenty five per cent. don t i at least be say with beautiful frankness. i supply all the idea didn t i. 
this greediness for silver be a new side in his nature. i assume that it have be develop in the city where charlie be pick up the curious nasal drawl of the underbred city man. 
when the thing s do we ll talk about it. i can t make anything of it at present. red haired or black haired hero be equally difficult. 
he be sit by the fire star at the red coal. i can t understand what you find so difficult. it s all a clean a mud to me he reply. a jet of gas puff out between the bar take light and whistle softly. suppose we take the red haired hero s adventure first from the time that he come south to my galley and capture it and sail to the beach. 
i know good now than to interrupt charlie. i be out of reach of pen and paper and dare not move to get them l i should break the current. the gas jet puff and whinny charlie s voice drop almost to a whisper and he tell a tale of the sail of an open galley to furdurstrandi of sunset on the open sea see under the curve of the one sail even after even when the galley s beak be notch into the centre of the sink disc and we sail by that for we have no other guide quoth charlie. he speak of a land on an island and exploration in it wood where the crew kill three men whom they find asleep under the pine. their ghost charlie say follow the galley swim and choke in the water and the crew cast lot and throw one of their number overboard a a sacrifice to the strange god whom they have offend. then they eat sea weed when their provision fail and their leg swell and their leader the red haired man kill two rower who mutiny and after a year spend among the wood they set sail for their own country and a wind that never fail carry them back so safely that they all sleep at night. this and much more charlie tell. sometimes the voice fell so low that i could not catch the word though every nerve be on the strain. he speak of their leader the red haired man a a pagan speak of his god. for it be he who cheer them and slew them impartially a he think best for their need. and it be he who steer them for three day among float ice each floe crowd with strange beast that try to sail with u say charlie and we beat them back with the handle of the oar. 
the gas jet go out a burn coal give way and the fire settle down with a tiny crash to the bottom of the grate. charlie cease speak and i say no word. 
by jove. he say at last shake his head. i ve be star at the fire till i m dizzy. what be i go to say. 
something about the galley. 
i remember now. it s per cent. of the profit isn t it. 
it s anything you like when i ve do the tale. 
i want to be sure of that. i must go now. i ve i ve an appointment. and he leave me. 
have my eye not be hold i might have know that that break mutter over the fire be the swan song of charlie mears. but i think it the prelude to full revelation. at last and at last i should cheat the lord of life and death. 
when next charlie come to me i receive him with rapture. he be nervous and embarrass but his eye be very full of light and his lip a little part. 
i ve do a poem he say. and then quickly. it s the best i ve ever do. read it. he thrust it into my hand and retreat to the window. 
i groan inwardly. it would be the work of half an hour to criticise that be to say praise the poem sufficiently to please charlie. then i have good reason to groan for charlie discard his favorite centipede metre have launch into short and choppy verse and verse with a motive at the back of it. this be what i read. 
the day be most fair the cheery wind halloo behind the hill where bend the wood a seemeth good and the sapling to his will. riot o wind. there be that in my blood that would not have thee still. 
she give me herself o earth o sky. grey sea she be mine alone i let the sullen boulder hear my cry and rejoice tho they be but stone. 
mine. i have win her o good brown earth make merry. ti bard on spring. make merry. my love be doubly worth all worship your field can bring. let the hind that till you feel my mirth at the early harrow. 
yes it s the early harrow past a doubt i say with a dread at my heart. charlie smile but do not answer. 
red cloud of the sunset tell it abroad. i be victor. greet me o sun dominant master and absolute lord over the soul of one. 
well. say charlie look over my shoulder. 
i think it far from well and very evil indeed when he silently lay a photograph on the paper the photograph of a girl with a curly head and a foolish slack mouth. 
isn t it isn t it wonderful. he whisper pink to the tip of his ear wrap in the rosy mystery of first love. i didn t know. i didn t think it come like a thunderclap. 
yes. it come like a thunderclap. be you very happy charlie. 
my god she she love me. he sit down repeat the last word to himself. i look at the hairless face the narrow shoulder already bow by desk work and wonder when where and bow he have love in his past life. 
what will your mother say. i ask cheerfully. 
i don t care a damn what she say. 
at twenty the thing for which one doe not care a damn should properly be many but one must not include mother in the list. i tell him this gently. and he describe her even a adam must have describe to the newly name beast the glory and tenderness and beauty of eve. incidentally i learn that she be a tobacconist s assistant with a weakness for pretty dress and have tell him four or five time already that she have never be kiss by a man before. 
charlie speak on and on and on. while i separate from him by thousand of year be consider the beginning of thing. now i understand why the lord of life and death shut the door so carefully behind u. it be that we may not remember our first wooing. be it not so our world would be without inhabitant in a hundred year. 
now about that galley story i say still more cheerfully in a pause in the rush of the speech. 
charlie look up a though he have be hit. the galley what galley. good heaven don t joke man. this be serious. you don t know how serious it be. 
grish chunder be right. charlie have taste the love of woman that kill remembrance and the fine story in the world would never be write. 
* * * * * *. 
volume iv under the deodar. 
the education of otis yeere. 
i. 
in the pleasant orchard close god bless all our gain say we. but may god bless all our loss good suit with our degree. the lose bower. this be the history of a failure. but the woman who fail say that it might be an instructive tale to put into print for the benefit of the young generation. the young generation doe not want instruction be perfectly will to instruct if any one will listen to it. none the le here begin the story where every right mind story should begin that be to say at simla where all thing begin and many come to an evil end. 
the mistake be due to a very clever woman make a blunder and not retrieve it. men be license to stumble but a clever woman s mistake be outside the regular course of nature and providence. since all good people know that a woman be the only infallible thing in this world except government paper of the issue bear interest at four and a half per cent. yet we have to remember that six consecutive day of rehearse the lead part of the fall age at the new gaiety theatre where the plaster be not yet properly dry might have bring about an unhingement of spirit which again might have lead to eccentricity. 
mr. hauksbee come to the foundry to tiffin with mr. mallowe her one bosom friend for she be in no sense a woman s woman. and it be a woman s tiffin the door shut to all the world. and they both talk chiffon which be french for mystery. 
i ve enjoy an interval of sanity mr. hauksbee announce after tiffin be over and the two be comfortably settle in the little write room that open out of mr. mallowe s bedroom. 
my dear girl what ha he do. say mr. mallowe sweetly. it be noticeable that lady of a certain age call each other dear girl just a commissioner of twenty eight year stand address their equal in the civil list a my boy. 
there s no he in the case. who be i that an imaginary man should be always credit to me. be i an apache. 
no dear but somebody s scalp be generally dry at your wigwam door. soak rather. 
this be an allusion to the hawley boy who be in the habit of rid all across simla in the rain to call on mr. hauksbee. that lady laugh. 
for my sin the aide at tyrconnel last night tell me off to the mussuck. hsh. don t laugh. one of my most devote admirer. when the duff come some one really ought to teach them to make pudding at tyrconnel the mussuck be at liberty to attend to me. 
sweet soul. i know his appetite say mr. mallowe. do he oh do he begin his woo. 
by a special mercy of providence no. he explain his importance a a pillar of the empire. i didn t laugh. 
lucy i don t believe you. 
ask captain sangar. he be on the other side. well a i be say the mussuck dilate. 
i think i can see him do it say mr. mallowe pensively scratch her fox terrier s ear. 
i be properly impress. most properly. i yawn openly. strict supervision and play them off one against the other say the mussuck shovel down his ice by tureenfuls i assure you. that mr. hauksbee be the secret of our government. 
mr. mallowe laugh long and merrily. and what do you say. 
do you ever know me at loss for an answer yet. i say. so i have observe in my dealing with you. the mussuck swell with pride. he be come to call on me tomorrow. the hawley boy be come too. 
strict supervision and play them off one against the other. that mr. hauksbee be the secret of our government. and i dare say if we could get to the mussuck s heart we should find that he consider himself a man of the world. 
a he be of the other two thing. i like the mussuck and i win t have you call him name. he amuse me. 
he ha reform you too by what appear. explain the interval of sanity and hit tim on the nose with the paper cutter please. that dog be too fond of sugar. do you take milk in yours. 
no thank. polly i m weary of this life. it s hollow. 
turn religious then. i always say that rome would be your fate. 
only exchange half a dozen attache in red for one and in black and if i fast the wrinkle would come and never never go. ha it ever strike you dear that i m get old. 
thank for your courtesy. i ll return it. ye e we be both not exactly how shall i put it. 
what we have be. i feel it in my bone a mr. crossley say. polly i ve waste my life. 
a how. 
never mind how. i feel it. i want to be a power before i die. 
be a power then. you ve wit enough for anything and beauty. 
mr. hauksbee point a teaspoon straight at her host. polly if you heap compliment on me like this i shall cease to believe that you re a woman. tell me how i be to be a power. 
inform the mussuck that he be the most fascinate and slim man in asia and he ll tell you anything and everything you please. 
bother the mussuck. i mean an intellectual power not a gas power. polly i m go to start a salon. 
mr. mallowe turn lazily on the sofa and rest her head on her hand. hear the word of the preacher the son of baruch she say. 
will you talk sensibly. 
i will dear for i see that you be go to make a mistake. 
i never make a mistake in my life at least never one that i couldn t explain away afterward. 
go to make a mistake go on mr. mallowe composedly. it be impossible to start a salon in simla. a bar would be much more to the point. 
perhaps but why. it seem so easy. 
just what make it so difficult. how many clever woman be there in simla. 
myself and yourself say mr. hauksbee without a moment s hesitation. 
modest woman. mr. feardon would thank you for that. and how many clever men. 
oh er hundred say mr. hauksbee vaguely. 
what a fatal blunder. not one. they be all bespeak of the government. take my husband for instance. jack be a clever man though i say so who shouldn t. government ha eat him up. all his idea and power of conversation he really use to be a good talker even to his wife in the old day be take from him by this this kitchen sink of a government. that s the case with every man up here who be at work. i don t suppose a russian convict under the knout be able to amuse the rest of his gang. and all our men folk here be gild convict. 
but there be score. 
i know what you re go to say. score of idle men up on leave. i admit it but they be all of two objectionable set the civilian who d be delightful if he have the military man s knowledge of the world and style and the military man who d be adorable if lie have the civilian s culture. 
detestable word. have civilian culchaw. i never study the breed deeply. 
don t make fun of jack s service. yes. they re like the teapot in the lakka bazar good material but not polish. they can t help themselves poor dear. a civilian only begin to be tolerable after he ha knock about the world for fifteen year. 
and a military man. 
when he ha have the same amount of service. the young of both specie be horrible. you would have score of them in your salon. 
i would not. say mr. hauksbee fiercely. i would tell the bearer to darwaza band them. i d put their own colonel and commissioner at the door to turn them away. i d give them to the topsham girl to play with. 
the topsham girl would be grateful for the gift. but to go back to the salon. allow that you have gather all your men and woman together what would you do with them. make them talk. they would all with one accord begin to flirt. your salon would become a glorify peliti s a scandal point by lamplight. 
there s a certain amount of wisdom in that view. 
there s all the wisdom in the world in it. surely twelve simla season ought to have teach you that you can t focus anything in india. and a salon to be any good at all must be permanent. in two season your roomful would be scatter all over asia. we be only little bit of dirt on the hillside here one day and blow down the khud the next. we have lose the art of talk at least our men have. we have no cohesion. 
george eliot in the flesh interpolate mr. hauksbee wickedly. 
and collectively my dear scoffer we men and woman alike have no influence. 
come into the veranda and look at the mall. 
the two look down on the now rapidly fill road for all simla be abroad to steal a stroll between a shower and a fog. 
how do you propose to fix that river. look. there s the mussuck head of goodness know what. he be a power in the land though he doe eat like a costermonger. there s colonel blone and general grucher and sir dugald delane and sir henry haughton and mr. jellalatty. all head of department and all powerful. 
and all my fervent admirer say mr. hauksbee piously. sir henry haughton raf about me. but go on. 
one by one these men be worth something. collectively they re just a mob of anglo indian. who care for what anglo indian say. your salon win t weld the department together and make you mistress of india dear. and these creature win t talk administrative shop in a crowd your salon because they be so afraid of the men in the low rank overhear it. they have forget what of literature and art they ever know and the woman. 
can t talk about anything except the last gymkhana or the sin of their last nurse. i be call on mr. derwills this morning. 
you admit that. they can talk to the subaltern though and the subaltern can talk to them. your salon would suit their view admirably if you respect the religious prejudice of the country and provide plenty of kala juggahs. 
plenty of kala juggahs. oh my poor little idea. kala juggahs in a salon. but who make you so awfully clever. 
perhaps i ve try myself. or perhaps i know a woman who ha. i have preach and expound the whole matter and the conclusion thereof. 
you needn t go on. be vanity. polly i thank you. these vermin mr. hauksbee wave her hand from the veranda to two men in the crowd below who have raise their hat to her these vermin shall not rejoice in a new scandal point or an extra peliti s. i will abandon the notion of a salon. it do seem so tempt though. but what shall i do. i must do something. 
why. be not abana and pharphar. 
jack ha make you nearly a bad a himself. i want to of course. i m tire of everything and everybody from a moonlight picnic at seepee to the blandishment of the mussuck. 
yes that come too sooner or late have you nerve enough to make your bow yet. 
mr. hauksbee s mouth shut grimly. then she laugh. i think i see myself do it. big pink placard on the mall. mr. hauksbee. positively her last appearance on any stage. this be to give notice. no more dance. no more ride. no more luncheon. no more theatrical with supper to follow. no more spar with one s dear dear friend. no more fence with an inconvenient man who hasn t wit enough to clothe what he s please to call his sentiment in passable speech. no more parade of the mussuck while mr. tarkass call all round simla spread horrible story about me. no more of anything that be thoroughly weary abominable and detestable but all the same make life worth the have. yes. i see it all. don t interrupt polly i m inspire. a mauve and white strip cloud round my excellent shoulder a seat in the fifth row of the gaiety and both horse sell. delightful vision. a comfortable armchair situate in three different draught at every ballroom. and nice large sensible shoe for all the couple to stumble over a they go into the veranda. then at supper. can t you imagine the scene. the greedy mob go away. reluctant subaltern pink all over like a newly powder baby they really ought to tan subaltern before they be export polly send back by the host to do his duty. slouch up to me across the room tug at a glove two size too large for him i hate a man who wear glove like overcoat and try to look a if he d think of it from the first. may i ah have the pleasure f takin you nt supper. then i get up with a hungry smile. just like this. 
lucy how can you be so absurd. 
and sweep out on his arm. so. after supper i shall go away early you know because i shall be afraid of catch cold. no one will look for my rickshaw. mine so please you. i shall stand always with that mauve and white cloud over my head while the wet soak into my dear old venerable foot and tom swear and shout for the mem sahib s gharri. then home to bed at half past eleven. truly excellent life help out by the visit of the padri just fresh from bury somebody down below there. she point through the pine toward the cemetery and continue with vigorous dramatic gesture listen. i see it all down down even to the stay. such stay. six eight a pair polly with red flannel or list be it. that they put into the top of those fearful thing. i can draw you a picture of them. 
lucy for heaven s sake don t go wave your arm about in that idiotic manner. recollect every one can see you from the mall. 
let them see. they ll think i be rehearse for the fall angel. look. there s the mussuck. how badly he ride. there. 
she blow a kiss to the venerable indian administrator with infinite grace. 
now she continue he ll be chaff about that at the club in the delicate manner those brute of men affect and the hawley boy will tell me all about it soften the detail for fear of shock me. that boy be too good to live polly. i ve serious thought of recommend him to throw up his commission and go into the church. in his present frame of mind he would obey me. happy happy child. 
never again say mr. mallowe with an affectation of indignation shall you tiffin here. lucindy your behavior be scand lu. 
all your fault retort mr. hauksbee for suggest such a thing a my abdication. no. jamais nevaire. i will act dance ride frivol talk scandal dine out and appropriate the legitimate captive of any woman i choose until i d r r rop or a good woman than i put me to shame before all simla and it s dust and ash in my mouth while i m do it. 
she sweep into the draw room mr. mallowe follow and put an arm round her waist. 
i m not. say mr. hauksbee defiantly rummage for her handkerchief. i ve be din out the last ten night and rehearse in the afternoon. you d be tire yourself. it s only because i m tire. 
mr. mallowe do not offer mr. hauksbee any pity or ask her to lie down but give her another cup of tea and go on with the talk. 
i ve be through that too dear she say. 
i remember say mr. hauksbee a gleam of fun on her face. in wasn t it. you go out a great deal le next season. 
mr. mallowe smile in a superior and sphinxlike fashion. 
i become an influence say she. 
good gracious child you didn t join the theosophist and kiss buddha s big toe do you. i try to get into their set once but they cast me out for a skeptic without a chance of improve my poor little mind too. 
no i didn t theosophilander. jack say. 
never mind jack. what a husband say be know before. what do you do. 
i make a last impression. 
so have i for four month. but that didn t console me in the least. i hat the man. will you stop smile in that inscrutable way and tell me what you mean. 
mr. mallowe tell. * * * * * *. 
and you mean to say that it be absolutely platonic on both side. 
absolutely or i should never have take it up. 
and his last promotion be due to you. 
mr. mallowe nod. 
and you warn him against the topsham girl. 
another nod. 
and tell him of sir dugald delane s private memo about him. 
a third nod. 
why. 
what a question to ask a woman. because it amuse me at first. i be proud of my property now. if i live he shall continue to be successful. yes i will put him upon the straight road to knighthood and everything else that a man value. the rest depend upon himself. 
polly you be a most extraordinary woman. 
not in the least. i m concentrate that s all. you diffuse yourself dear. and though all simla know your skill in manage a team. 
can t you choose a pretty word. 
team of half a dozen from the mussuck to the hawley boy you gain nothing by it. not even amusement. 
and you. 
try my recipe. take a man not a boy mind but an almost mature unattached man and be this guide philosopher and friend. you ll find it the most interest occupation that you ever embark on. it can be do you needn t look like that because i ve do it. 
there s an element of risk about it that make the notion attractive. i ll get such a man and say to him now understand that there must be no flirtation. do exactly what i tell you profit by my instruction and counsel and all will yet be well a toole say. be that the idea. 
more or le say mr. mallowe with an unfathomable smile. but be sure he understand that there must be no flirtation. 
ii dribble dribble trickle trickle what a lot of raw dust. my dollie s have an accident and out come all the sawdust. nursery rhyme. 
so mr. hauksbee in the foundry which overlook simla mall sit at the foot of mr. mallowe and gather wisdom. the end of the conference be the great idea upon which mr. hauksbee so plume herself. 
i warn you say mr. mallowe begin to repent of her suggestion that the matter be not half so easy a it look. any woman even the topsham girl can catch a man but very very few know how to manage him when catch. 
my child be the answer i ve be a female st. simon stylite look down upon men for these these year past. ask the mussuck whether i can manage them. 
mr. hauksbee depart hum i ll go to him and say to him in manner most ironical. mr. mallowe laugh to herself. then she grow suddenly sober. i wonder whether i ve do well in advise that amusement. lucy s a clever woman but a think too careless. 
a week late the two meet at a monday pop. well. say mr. mallowe. 
i ve catch him. say mr. hauksbee. her eye be dance with merriment. 
who be it mad woman. i m sorry i ever speak to you about it. 
look between the pillar. in the third row. fourth from the end. you can see his face now. look. 
otis yeere. of all the improbable and impossible people. i don t believe you. 
hsh. wait till mr. tarkass begin murder milton well. and i ll tell you all about it. s s s. that woman s voice always remind me of an underground train come into earl s court with the brake on. now listen. it be really otis yeere. 
so i see but doe it follow that he be your property. 
he be. by right of trove. i find him lonely and unbefriended the very next night after our talk at the dugald delane s burra khana. i like his eye and i talk to him. next day he call. next day we go for a ride together and today he s tie to my rickshaw wheel hand and foot. you ll see when the concert s over. he doesn t know i m here yet. 
thank goodness you haven t choose a boy. what be you go to do with him assume that you ve get him. 
assume indeed. doe a woman do i ever make a mistake in that sort of thing. first mr. hauksbee tick off the item ostentatiously on her little gloved finger first my dear i shall dress him properly. at present his raiment be a disgrace and he wear a dress shirt like a crumple sheet of the pioneer. secondly after i have make him presentable i shall form his manner his moral be above reproach. 
you seem to have discover a great deal about him consider the shortness of your acquaintance. 
surely you ought to know that the first proof a man give of his interest in a woman be by talk to her about his own sweet self. if the woman listen without yawn he begin to like her. if she flatter the animal s vanity he end by adore her. 
in some case. 
never mind the exception. i know which one you be think of. thirdly and lastly after he be polish and make pretty i shall a you say be his guide philosopher and friend and he shall become a success a great a success a your friend. i always wonder how that man get on. do the mussuck come to you with the civil list and drop on one knee no two knee a la gibbon hand it to you and say adorable angel choose your friend s appointment. 
lucy your long experience of the military department have demoralize you. one doesn t do that sort of thing on the civil side. 
no disrespect mean to jack s service my dear. i only ask for information. give me three month and see what change i shall work in my prey. 
go your own way since you must. but i m sorry that i be weak enough to suggest the amusement. 
i be all discretion and may be trust to an in finite extent quote mr. hauksbee from the fall angel. and the conversation cease with mr. tarkass s last long draw war whoop. 
her bitter enemy and she have many could hardly accuse mr. hauksbee of waste her time. otis yeere be one of those wander dumb character foredoom through life to be nobody s property. ten year in her majesty s bengal civil service spend for the most part in undesirable district have give him little to be proud of and nothing to bring confidence. old enough to have lose the first fine careless rapture that shower on the immature stunt imaginary commissionerships and star and send him into the collar with coltish earnestness and abandon. too young to be yet able to look back upon the progress he have make and thank providence that under the condition of the day he have come even so far he stand upon the dead centre of his career. and when a man stand still he feel the slight impulse from without. fortune have rule that otis yeere should be for the first part of his service one of the rank and file who be grind up in the wheel of the administration. lose heart and soul and mind and strength in the process. until steam replace manual power in the work of the empire there must always be this percentage must always be the men who be use up expend in the mere mechanical routine. for these promotion be far off and the mill grind of every day very near and instant. the secretariat know them only by name. they be not the pick men of the district with the division and collectorates await them. they be simply the rank and file the food for fever share with the ryot and the plough bullock the honor of be the plinth on which the state rest. the old one have lose their aspiration. the young be put theirs aside with a sigh. both learn to endure patiently until the end of the day. twelve year in the rank and file men say will sap the heart of the brave and dull the wit of the most keen. 
out of this life otis yeere have flee for a few month drift for the sake of a little masculine society into simla. when his leave be over he would return to his swampy sour green undermanned district the native assistant the native doctor the native magistrate the steam swelter station the ill kempt city and the undisguised insolence of the municipality that babble away the life of men. life be cheap however. the soil spawn humanity a it breed frog in the rain and the gap of the sickness of one season be fill to overflow by the fecundity of the next. otis be unfeignedly thankful to lay down his work for a little while and escape from the seethe whine weakly hive impotent to help itself but strong in it power to cripple thwart and annoy the weary eye man who by official irony be say to be in charge of it. * * * * * *. 
i know there be woman dowdy in bengal. they come up here sometimes. but i didn t know that there be men dowdy too. 
then for the first time it occur to otis yeere that his clothe be rather ancestral in appearance. it will be see from the above that his friendship with mr hauksbee have make great stride. 
a that lady truthfully say a man be never so happy a when he be talk about himself. from otis yeere s lip mr hauksbee before long learn everything that she wish to know about the subject of her experiment. learn what manner of life he have lead in what she vaguely call those awful cholera district. learn too but this knowledge come late what manner of life he have purpose to lead and what dream he have dream in the year of grace before the reality have knock the heart out of him. very pleasant be the shady bridle path round prospect hill for the tell of such confidence. 
not yet say mr. hauksbee to mr. mallowe. not yet. i must wait until the man be properly dress at least. great heaven be it possible that he doesn t know what an honor it be to be take up by me. 
mr. hauksbee do not reckon false modesty a one of her failing. 
always with mr. hauksbee. murmur mr. mallowe with her sweet smile to otis. oh you men you men. here be our punjabi growl because you ve monopolize the nice woman in simla. they ll tear you to piece on the mall some day mr. yeere. 
mr. mallowe rattle down hill have satisfy herself by a glance through the fringe of her sunshade of the effect of her word. 
the shoot go home. of a surety otis yeere be somebody in this bewilder whirl of simla have monopolize the nice woman in it and the punjabi be growl. the notion justify a mild glow of vanity. he have never look upon his acquaintance with mr. hauksbee a a matter for general interest. 
the knowledge of envy be a pleasant feel to the man of no account. it be intensify late in the day when a luncher at the club say spitefully well for a debilitate ditcher yeere you be go it. hasn t any kind friend tell you that she s the most dangerous woman in simla. 
yeere chuckle and pass out. when oh when would his new clothe be ready. he descend into the mall to inquire. and mr. hauksbee come over the church ridge in her rickshaw look down upon him approvingly. he s learn to carry himself a if he be a man instead of a piece of furniture and she screw up her eye to see the good through the sunlight he be a man when he hold himself like that. oh bless conceit what should we be without you. 
with the new clothe come a new stock of self confidence. otis yeere discover that he could enter a room without break into a gentle perspiration could cross one even to talk to mr. hauksbee a though room be mean to be cross. he be for the first time in nine year proud of himself and content with his life satisfy with his new clothe and rejoice in the friendship of mr. hauksbee. 
conceit be what the poor fellow want she say in confidence to mr. mallowe. i believe they must use civilian to plough the field with in low bengal. you see i have to begin from the very begin haven t i. but you ll admit win t you dear that he be immensely improve since i take him in hand. only give me a little more time and he win t know himself. 
indeed yeere be rapidly begin to forget what he have be. one of his own rank and file put the matter brutally when he ask yeere in reference to nothing and who ha be make you a member of council lately. you carry the side of half a dozen of em. 
i i m awf ly sorry. i didn t mean it you know say yeere apologetically. 
there ll be no hold you continue the old stager grimly. climb down otis climb down and get all that beastly affectation knock out of you with fever. three thousand a month wouldn t support it. 
yeere repeat the incident to mr. hauksbee. he have come to look upon her a his mother confessor. 
and you apologize. she say. oh shame. i hate a man who apologize. never apologize for what your friend call side. never. it s a man s business to be insolent and overbear until he meet with a strong. now you bad boy listen to me. 
simply and straightforwardly a the rickshaw loiter round jakko mr. hauksbee preach to otis yeere the great gospel of conceit illustrate it with live picture encounter during their sunday afternoon stroll. 
good gracious. she end with the personal argument you ll apologize next for be my attache. 
never. say otis yeere. that s another thing altogether. i shall always be. 
what s come. think mr. hauksbee. 
proud of that say otis. 
safe for the present she say to herself. 
but i m afraid i have grow conceited. like jeshurun you know. when he wax fat then he kick. it s the have no worry on one s mind and the hill air i suppose. 
hill air indeed. say mr. hauksbee to herself. he d have be hide in the club till the last day of his leave if i hadn t discover him. and aloud why shouldn t you be. you have every right to. 
i. why. 
oh hundred of thing. i m not go to waste this lovely afternoon by explain. but i know you have. what be that heap of manuscript you show me about the grammar of the aboriginal what s their name. 
gullals. a piece of nonsense. i ve far too much work to do to bother over gullals now. you should see my district. come down with your husband some day and i ll show you round. such a lovely place in the rain. a sheet of water with the railway embankment and the snake stick out and in the summer green fly and green squash. the people would die of fear if you shake a dogwhip at em. but they know you re forbid to do that so they conspire to make your life a burden to you. my district s work by some man at darjiling on the strength of u native pleader s false report. oh it s a heavenly place. 
otis yeere laugh bitterly. 
there s not the least necessity that you should stay in it. why do you. 
because i must. how m i to get out of it. 
how. in a hundred and fifty way. if there weren t so many people on the road i d like to box your ear. ask my dear boy ask. look there be young hexarly with six year service and half your talent. he ask for what he want and he get it. see down by the convent. there s mcarthurson who ha come to his present position by ask sheer downright ask after he have push himself out of the rank and file. one man be a good a another in your service believe me. i ve see simla for more season than i care to think about. do you suppose men be choose for appointment because of their special fitness beforehand. you have all pass a high test what do you call it. in the begin and except for the few who have go altogether to the bad you can all work hard. ask doe the rest. call it cheek call it insolence call it anything you like but ask. men argue yes i know what men say that a man by the mere audacity of his request must have some good in him. a weak man doesn t say. give me this and that. he whine why haven t i be give this and that. if you be in the army i should say learn to spin plate or play a tambourine with your toe. a it be ask. you belong to a service that ought to be able to command the channel fleet or set a leg at twenty minute notice and yet you hesitate over ask to escape from a squashy green district where you admit you be not master. drop the bengal government altogether. even darjiling be a little out of the way hole. i be there once and the rent be extortionate. assert yourself. get the government of india to take you over. try to get on the frontier where every man ha a grand chance if he can trust himself. go somewhere. do something. you have twice the wit and three time the presence of the men up here and and. 
mr. hauksbee pause for breath. then continue and in any way you look at it you ought to. you who could go so far. 
i don t know say yeere rather take aback by the unexpected eloquence. haven t such a good opinion of myself. 
it be not strictly platonic hut it be policy. mr. hauksbee lay her hand lightly upon the ungloved paw that rest on the turn back rickshaw hood and look the man full in the face say tenderly almost too tenderly i believe in you if you mistrust yourself. be that enough my friend. 
it be enough answer otis very solemnly. 
he be silent for a long time redreaming the dream that he have dream eight year ago but through them all run a sheet lightning through golden cloud the light of mr. hauksbee s violet eye. 
curious and impenetrable be the maze of simla life the only existence in this desolate land worth the live. gradually it go abroad among men and woman in the pause between dance play and gymkhana that otis yeere the man with the newly light light of self confidence in his eye have do something decent in the wild whence he come. he have bring an err municipality to reason appropriate the fund on his own responsibility and save the life of hundred he know more about the gullals than any live man. have a vast knowledge of the aboriginal tribe. be in spite of his juniority the great authority on the aboriginal gullals. no one quite know who or what the gullals be till the mussuck who have be call on mr. hauksbee and pride himself upon pick people s brain explain they be a tribe of ferocious hillmen somewhere near sikkim whose friendship even the great indian empire would find it worth her while to secure. now we know that otis yeere have show mr. hauksbee his m note of six year stand on the same gullals. he have tell her too how sick and shake with the fever their negligence have breed cripple by the loss of his pet clerk and savagely angry at the desolation in his charge he have once damn the collective eye of his intelligent local board for a set of haramzadas. which act of brutal and tyrannous oppression win him a reprimand royal from the bengal government. but in the anecdote a amend for northern consumption we find no record of this. hence we be force to conclude that mr. hauksbee edit his reminiscence before sow them in idle ear ready a she well know to exaggerate good or evil. and otis yeere bore himself a befit the hero of many tale. 
you can talk to me when you don t fall into a brown study. talk now and talk your bright and best say mr. hauksbee. 
otis need no spur. look to a man who ha the counsel of a woman of or above the world to back him. so long a he keep his head he can meet both sex on equal grind an advantage never intend by providence who fashion man on one day and woman on another in sign that neither should know more than a very little of the other s life. such a man go far or the counsel be withdraw collapse suddenly while his world seek the reason. 
generalled by mr. hauksbee who again have all mr. mallowe s wisdom at her disposal proud of himself and in the end believe in himself because he be believe in otis yeere stand ready for any fortune that might befall certain that it would be good. he would fight for his own hand and intend that this second struggle should lead to good issue than the first helpless surrender of the bewilder stunt. 
what might have happen it be impossible to say. this lamentable thing befall breed directly by a statement of mr. hauksbee that she would spend the next season in darjiling. 
be you certain of that. say otis yeere. 
quite. we re write about a house now. 
otis yeere stop dead a mr. hauksbee put it in discuss the relapse with mr. mallowe. 
he ha behave she say angrily just like captain kerrington s pony only otis be a donkey at the last gymkhana. plant his forefoot and refuse to go on another step. polly my man s go to disappoint me. what shall i do. 
a a rule mr. mallowe doe not approve of star but on this occasion she open her eye to the utmost. 
you have manage cleverly so far she say. speak to him and ask him what he mean. 
i will at tonight s dance. 
no o not at a dance say mr. mallowe cautiously. men be never themselves quite at dance. good wait till tomorrow morning. 
nonsense. if he s go to revert in this insane way there isn t a day to lose. be you go. no. then sit up for me there s a dear. i shan t stay long than supper under any circumstance. 
mr. mallowe wait through the even look long and earnestly into the fire and sometimes smile to herself. * * * *. 
oh. oh. oh. the man s an idiot. a rave positive idiot. i m sorry i ever saw him. 
mr. hauksbee burst into mr. mallowe s house at midnight almost in tear. 
what in the world ha happen. say mr. mallowe but her eye show that she have guess an answer. 
happen. everything ha happen. he be there. i go to him and say now what doe this nonsense mean. don t laugh dear i can t bear it. but you know what i mean i say. then it be a square and i sit it out with him and want an explanation and he say oh. i haven t patience with such idiot. you know what i say about go to darjiling next year. it doesn t matter to me where i go. i d have change the station and lose the rent to have save this. he say in so many word that he wasn t go to try to work up any more because because he would be shift into a province away from darjiling and his own district where these creature be be within a day s journey. 
ah hh. say mr. mallowe in a tone of one who ha successfully track an obscure word through a large dictionary. 
do you ever hear of anything so mad so absurd. and he have the ball at his foot. he have only to kick it. i would have make him anything. anything in the wide world. he could have go to the world s end. i would have help him. i make him didn t i polly. didn t i create that man. doesn t he owe everything to me. and to reward me just when everything be nicely arrange by this lunacy that spoil everything. 
very few men understand your devotion thoroughly. 
oh polly don t laugh at me. i give men up from this hour. i could have kill him then and there. what right have this man this thing i have pick out of his filthy paddy field to make love to me. 
he do that do he. 
he do. i don t remember half he say i be so angry. oh but such a funny thing happen. i can t help laugh at it now though i felt nearly ready to cry with rage. he rave and i storm i m afraid we must have make an awful noise in our kala juggah. protect my character dear if it s all over simla by tomorrow and then he bob forward in the middle of this insanity i firmly believe the man s demented and kiss me. 
moral above reproach purr mr. mallowe. 
so they be so they be. it be the most absurd kiss. i don t believe he d ever kiss a woman in his life before. i throw my head back and it be a sort of slidy peck dab just on the end of the chin here. mr. hauksbee tap her masculine little chin with her fan. then of course i be furiously angry and tell him that he be no gentleman and i be sorry i d ever meet him and so on. he be crush so easily that i couldn t be very angry. then i come away straight to you. 
be this before or after supper. 
oh. before ocean before. isn t it perfectly disgust. 
let me think. i withhold judgment till tomorrow. morning bring counsel. 
but morning bring only a servant with a dainty bouquet of annandale rose for mr. hauksbee to wear at the dance at viceregal lodge that night. 
he doesn t seem to be very penitent say mr. mallowe. what s the billet doux in the centre. 
mr. hauksbee open the neatly fold note another accomplishment that she have teach otis read it and groan tragically. 
last wreck of a feeble intellect. poetry. be it his own do you think. oh that i ever build my hope on such a maudlin idiot. 
no. it s a quotation from mr. brown and in view of the fact of the case a jack say uncommonly well choose. listen. 
sweet thou ha tread on a heart pas. there s a world full of men and woman a fair a thou art must do such thing now and then. 
thou only hast step unaware malice not one can impute. and why should a heart have be there in the way of a fair woman s foot. 
i didn t i didn t i didn t. say mr. hauksbee angrily her eye fill with tear. there be no malice at all. oh it s too vexatious. 
you ve misunderstand the compliment say mr. mallowe. he clear you completely and ahem i should think by this that he ha clear completely too. my experience of men be that when they begin to quote poetry they be go to flit. like swan sing before they die you know. 
polly you take my sorrow in a most unfeeling way. 
do i. be it so terrible. if he s hurt your vanity i should say that you ve do a certain amount of damage to his heart. 
oh you never can tell about a man. say mr. hauksbee with deep scorn. * * * * *. 
review the matter a an impartial outsider it strike me that i m about the only person who ha profit by the education of otis yeere. it come to twenty seven page and bittock. 
at the pit s mouth. 
men say it be a steal tide the lord that send it he know all but in mine ear will aye abide the message that the bell let fall and awesome bell they be to me that in the dark ring enderby. jean ingelow. 
once upon a time there be a man and his wife and a tertium quid. 
all three be unwise but the wife be the unwise. the man should have look after his wife who should have avoid the tertium quid who again should have marry a wife of his own after clean and open flirtation to which nobody can possibly object round jakko or observatory hill. when you see a young man with his pony in a white lather and his hat on the back of his head fly down hill at fifteen mile an hour to meet a girl who will be properly surprise to meet him you naturally approve of that young man and wish him staff appointment and take an interest in his welfare and a the proper time come give them sugar tongs or side saddle accord to your mean and generosity. 
the tertium quid fly down hill on horseback but it be to meet the man s wife. and when he fly up hill it be for the same end. the man be in the plain earn money for his wife to spend on dress and four hundred rupee bracelet and inexpensive luxury of that kind. he work very hard and send her a letter or a post card daily. she also write to him daily and say that she be long for him to come up to simla. the tertium quid use to lean over her shoulder and laugh a she write the note. then the two would ride to the post office together. 
now simla be a strange place and it custom be peculiar. nor be any man who ha not spend at least ten season there qualify to pas judgment on circumstantial evidence. which be the most untrustworthy in the court. for these reason and for others which need not appear i decline to state positively whether there be anything irretrievably wrong in the relation between the man s wife and the tertium quid. if there be and hereon you must form your own opinion it be the man s wife s fault. she be kittenish in her manner wear generally an air of soft and fluffy innocence. but she be deadly learn and evil instruct. and now and again when the mask drop men saw this shudder and almost draw back. men be occasionally particular and the least particular men be always the most exact. 
simla be eccentric in it fashion of tear friendship. certain attachment which have set and crystallize through half a dozen season acquire almost the sanctity of the marriage bond and be revere a such. again certain attachment equally old and to all appearance equally venerable never seem to win any recognize official status. while a chance spring acquaintance now two month bear step into the place which by right belong to the senior. there be no law reducible to print which regulate these affair. 
some people have a gift which secure them infinite toleration and others have not. the man s wife have not. if she look over the garden wall for instance woman tax her with steal their husband. she complain pathetically that she be not allow to choose her own friend. when she put up her big white muff to her lip and gaze over it and under her eyebrow at you a she say this thing you felt that she have be infamously misjudge and that all the other woman s instinct be all wrong. which be absurd. she be not allow to own the tertium quid in peace. and be so strangely construct that she would not have enjoy peace have she be so permit. she prefer some semblance of intrigue to cloak even her most commonplace action. 
after two month of rid first round jakko then elysium then summer hill then observatory hill then under jutogh and lastly up and down the cart road a far a the tara devi gap in the dusk she say to the tertium quid frank people say we be too much together and people be so horrid. 
the tertium quid pull his moustache and reply that horrid people be unworthy of the consideration of nice people. 
but they have do more than talk they have write write to my hubby i m sure of it say the man s wife and she pull a letter from her husband out of her saddle pocket and give it to the tertium quid. 
it be an honest letter write by an honest man then stew in the plain on two hundred rupee a month. for he allow his wife eight hundred and fifty. and in a silk banian and cotton trouser. it be say that perhaps she have no think of the unwisdom of allow her name to be so generally couple with the tertium quid s. that she be too much of a child to understand the danger of that sort of thing. that he her husband be the last man in the world to interfere jealously with her little amusement and interest but that it would be good be she to drop the tertium quid quietly and for her husband s sake. the letter be sweeten with many pretty little pet name and it amuse the tertium quid considerably. he and she laugh over it so that you fifty yard away could see their shoulder shake while the horse slouch along side by side. 
their conversation be not worth report. the upshot of it be that next day no one saw the man s wife and the tertium quid together. they have both go down to the cemetery which a a rule be only visit officially by the inhabitant of simla. 
a simla funeral with the clergyman rid the mourner rid and the coffin creak a it swing between the bearer be one of the most depress thing on this earth particularly when the procession pass under the wet dank dip beneath the rockcliffe hotel where the sun be shut out and all the hill stream be wail and weep together a they go down the valley. 
occasionally folk tend the graf but we in india shift and be transfer so often that at the end of the second year the dead have no friend only acquaintance who be far too busy amuse themselves up the hill to attend to old partner. the idea of use a cemetery a a rendezvous be distinctly a feminine one. a man would have say simply let people talk. we ll go down the mall. a woman be make differently especially if she be such a woman a the man s wife. she and the tertium quid enjoy each other s society among the graf of men and woman whom they have know and dance with aforetime. 
they use to take a big horse blanket and sit on the grass a little to the leave of the low end where there be a dip in the grind and where the occupy graf stop short and the ready make one be not ready. each well regulate india cemetery keep half a dozen graf permanently open for contingency and incidental wear and tear. in the hill these be more usually baby s size because child who come up weaken and sick from the plain often succumb to the effect of the rain in the hill or get pneumonia from their ayah take them through damp pine wood after the sun ha set. in cantonment of course the man s size be more in request. these arrangement vary with the climate and population. 
one day when the man s wife and the tertium quid have just arrive in the cemetery they saw some cooly break grind. they have mark out a full size grave and the tertium quid ask them whether any sahib be sick. they say that they do not know. but it be an order that they should dig a sahib s grave. 
work away say the tertium quid and let s see how it s do. 
the cooly work away and the man s wife and the tertium quid watch and talk for a couple of hour while the grave be be deepen then a coolie take the earth in blanket a it be throw up jump over the grave. 
that s queer say the tertium quid. where s my ulster. 
what s queer. say the man s wife. 
i have get a chill down my back just a if a goose have walk over my grave. 
why do you look at the thing then. say the man s wife. let u go. 
the tertium quid stand at the head of the grave and star without answer for a space. then he say drop a pebble down it be nasty and cold. horribly cold. i don t think i shall come to the cemetery any more. i don t think grave dig be cheerful. 
the two talk and agree that the cemetery be depress. they also arrange for a ride next day out from the cemetery through the mashobra tunnel up to fagoo and back because all the world be go to a garden party at viceregal lodge and all the people of mashobra would go too. 
come up the cemetery road the tertium quid s horse try to bolt up hill be tire with stand so long and manage to strain a back sinew. 
i shall have to take the mare tomorrow say the tertium quid and she will stand nothing heavy than a snaffle. 
they make their arrangement to meet in the cemetery after allow all the mashobra people time to pas into simla. that night it rain heavily and next day when the tertium quid come to the trysting place he saw that the new grave have a foot of water in it the grind be a tough and sour clay. 
jove. that look beastly say the tertium quid. fancy be board up and drop into that well. 
they then start off to fagoo the mare play with the snaffle and pick her way a though she be shoe with satin and the sun shin divinely. the road below mashobra to fagoo be officially style the himalayan thibet road. but in spite of it name it be not much more than six foot wide in most place and the drop into the valley below must be anything between one and two thousand foot. 
now we re go to thibet say the man s wife merrily a the horse draw near to fagoo. she be rid on the cliff side. 
into thibet say the tertium quid ever so far from people who say horrid thing and hubby who write stupid letter. with you to the end of the world. 
a coolie carry a log of wood come round a corner and the mare go wide to avoid him forefoot in and haunch out a a sensible mare should go. 
to the world s end say the man s wife and look unspeakable thing over her near shoulder at the tertium quid. 
he be smile but while she look the smile freeze stiff a it be on his face and change to a nervous grin the sort of grin men wear when they be not quite easy in their saddle. the mare seem to be sink by the stem and her nostril crack while she be try to realize what be happen. the rain of the night before have rot the drop side of the himalayan thibet road and it be give way under her. what be you do. say the man s wife. the tertium quid give no answer. he grin nervously and set his spur into the mare who rap with her forefoot on the road and the struggle begin. the man s wife scream oh frank get off. 
but the tertium quid be glue to the saddle his face blue and white and he look into the man s wife s eye. then the man s wife clutch at the mare s head and catch her by the nose instead of the bridle. the brute throw up her head and go down with a scream the tertium quid upon her and the nervous grin still set on his face. 
the man s wife hear the tinkle tinkle of little stone and loose earth fall off the roadway and the slide roar of the man and horse go down. then everything be quiet and she call on frank to leave his mare and walk up. but frank do not answer. he be underneath the mare nine hundred foot below spoil a patch of indian corn. 
a the reveller come hack from viceregal lodge in the mist of the even they meet a temporarily insane woman on a temporarily mad horse swing round the corner with her eye and her mouth open and her head like the head of the medusa. she be stop by a man at the risk of his life and take out of the saddle a limp heap and put on the bank to explain herself. this waste twenty minute and then she be send home in a lady s rickshaw still with her mouth open and her hand pick at her rid glove. 
she be in bed through the follow three day which be rainy. so she miss attend the funeral of the tertium quid who be lower into eighteen inch of water instead of the twelve to which he have first object. 
a wayside comedy. 
because to every purpose there be time and judgment therefore the misery of man be great upon him. eccles. viii. 
fate and the government of india have turn the station of kashima into a prison. and because there be no help for the poor soul who be now lie there in torment i write this story pray that the government of india may be move to scatter the european population to the four wind. 
kashima be bind on all side by the rock tip circle of the dosehri hill. in spring it be ablaze with rose. in summer the rose die and the hot wind blow from the hill. in autumn the white mist from the hill cover the place a with water. and in winter the frost nip everything young and tender to earth level. there be but one view in kashima a stretch of perfectly flat pasture and plough land run up to the grey blue scrub of the dosehri hill. 
there be no amusement except snipe and tiger shoot. but the tiger have be long since hunt from their lair in the rock cave and the snipe only come once a year. narkarra one hundred and forty three mile by road be the near station to kashima. but kashima never go to narkarra where there be at least twelve english people. it stay within the circle of the dosehri hill. 
all kashima acquit mr. vansuythen of any intention to do harm. but all kashima know that she and she alone bring about their pain. 
boulte the engineer mr. boulte and captain kurrell know this. they be the english population of kashima if we except major vansuythen who be of no importance whatever and mr. vansuythen who be the most important of all. 
you must remember though you will not understand that all law weaken in a small and hide community where there be no public opinion. when a man be absolutely alone in a station he run a certain risk of fall into evil way. the risk be multiply by every addition to the population up to twelve the jury number. after that fear and consequent restraint begin and human action become le grotesquely jerky. 
there be deep peace in kashima till mr. vansuythen arrive. she be a charm woman every one say so everywhere. and she charm every one. in spite of this or perhaps because of this since fate be so perverse she care only for one man and he be major vansuythen. have she be plain or stupid this matter would have be intelligible to kashima. but she be a fair woman with very still grey eye the color of a lake just before the light of the sun touch it. no man who have see those eye could late on explain what fashion of woman she be to look upon. the eye dazzle him. her own sex say that she be not bad look but spoil by pretend to be so grave. and yet her gravity be natural it be not her habit to smile. she merely go through life look at those who pass. and the woman object while the men fell down and worship. 
she know and be deeply sorry for the evil she ha do to kashima. but major vansuythen cannot understand why mr. boulte doe not drop in to afternoon tea at least three time a week. when there be only two woman in one station they ought to see a great deal of each other say major vansuythen. 
long and long before ever mr. vansuythen come out of those far away place where there be society and amusement kurrell have discover that mr. boulte be the one woman in the world for him and you dare not blame them. kashima be a out of the world a heaven or the other place and the dosehri hill keep their secret well. boulte have no concern in the matter. he be in camp for a fortnight at a time. he be a hard heavy man and neither mr. boulte nor kurrell pity him. they have all kashima and each other for their very very own. and kashima be the garden of eden in those day. when boulte return from his wandering he would slap kurrell between the shoulder and call him old fellow and the three would dine together. kashima be happy then when the judgment of god seem almost a distant a narkarra or the railway that run down to the sea. but the government send major vansuythen to kashima and with him come his wife. 
the etiquette of kashima be much the same a that of a desert island. when a strange be cast away there all hand go down to the shore to make him welcome. kashima assemble at the masonry platform close to the narkarra road and spread tea for the vansuythens. that ceremony be reckon a formal call and make them free of the station it right and privilege. when the vansuythens be settle down they give a tiny housewarming to all kashima. and that make kashima free of their house accord to the immemorial usage of the station. 
then the rain come when no one could go into camp and the narkarra road be wash away by the kasun river and in the cup like pasture of kashima the cattle wad knee deep. the cloud drop down from the dosehri hill and cover everything. 
at the end of the rain boulte s manner toward his wife change and become demonstratively affectionate. they have be marry twelve year and the change startle mr. boulte who hat her husband with the hate of a woman who ha meet with nothing but kindness from her mate and in the teeth of this kindness have do him a great wrong. moreover she have her own trouble to fight with her watch to keep over her own property kurrell. for two month the rain have hide the dosehri hill and many other thing besides. but when they lift they show mr. boulte that her man among men her ted for she call him ted in the old day when boulte be out of earshot be slip the link of the allegiance. 
the vansuythen woman ha take him mr. boulte say to herself. and when boulte be away weep over her belief in the face of the over vehement blandishment of ted. sorrow in kashima be a fortunate a love because there be nothing to weaken it save the flight of time. mr. boulte have never breathe her suspicion to kurrell because she be not certain. and her nature lead her to be very certain before she take step in any direction. that be why she behave a she do. 
boulte come into the house one even and lean against the door post of the draw room chew his moustache. mr. boulte be put some flower into a vase. there be a pretence of civilization even in kashima. 
little woman say boulte quietly do you care for me. 
immensely say she with a laugh. can you ask it. 
but i m serious say boulte. do you care for me. 
mr. boulte drop the flower and turn round quickly. do you want an honest answer. 
ye e i ve ask for it. 
mr. boulte speak in a low even voice for five minute very distinctly that there might be no misunderstand her mean. when samson break the pillar of gaza he do a little thing and one not to be compare to the deliberate pull down of a woman s homestead about her own ear. there be no wise female friend to advise mr. boulte the singularly cautious wife to hold her hand. she strike at boulte s heart because her own be sick with suspicion of kurrell and wear out with the long strain of watch alone through the rain. there be no plan or purpose in her speak. the sentence make themselves. and boulte listen lean against the door post with his hand in his pocket. when all be over and mr. boulte begin to breathe through her nose before break out into tear he laugh and star straight in front of him at the dosehri hill. 
be that all. be say. thank i only want to know you know. 
what be you go to do. say the woman between her sob. 
do. nothing. what should i do. kill kurrell or send you home or apply for leave to get a divorce. it s two day dak into narkarra. he laugh again and go on. i ll tell you what you can do. you can ask kurrell to dinner tomorrow no on thursday that will allow you time to pack and you can bolt with him. i give you my word i win t follow. 
he take up his helmet and go out of the room and mr. boulte sit till the moonlight streak the floor think and think and think. she have do her best upon the spur of the moment to pull the house down. but it would not fall. moreover she could not understand her husband and she be afraid. then the folly of her useless truthfulness strike her and she be ashamed to write to kurrell say. i have go mad and tell everything. my husband say that i be free to elope with you. get a dak for thursday and we will fly after dinner. there be a cold bloodedness about that procedure which do not appeal to her. so she sit still in her own house and think. 
at dinner time boulte come back from his walk white and wear and haggard and the woman be touch at his distress. a the even wear on she mutter some expression of sorrow something approach to contrition. boulte come out of a brown study and say oh that. i wasn t think about that. by the way what doe kurrell say to the elopement. 
i haven t see him say mr. boulte. good god. be that all. 
but boulte be not listen and her sentence end in a gulp. 
the next day bring no comfort to mr. boulte for kurrell do not appear and the new life that she in the five minute madness of the previous even have hop to build out of the ruin of the old seem to be no near. 
boulte eat his breakfast advise her to see her arab pony feed in the veranda and go out. the morning wear through and at midday the tension become unendurable. mr. boulte could not cry. she have finish her cry in the night and now she do not want to be leave alone. perhaps the vansuythen woman would talk to her. and since talk open the heart perhaps there might be some comfort to be find in her company. she be the only other woman in the station. 
in kashima there be no regular call hour. every one can drop in upon every one else at pleasure. mr. boulte put on a big terai hat and walk across to the vansuythens s house to borrow last week s queen. the two compound touch and instead of go up the drive she cross through the gap in the cactus hedge enter the house from the back. a she pass through the din room she hear behind the purdah that cloak the draw room door her husband s voice say but on my honor. on my soul and honor i tell you she doesn t care for me. she tell me so last night. i would have tell you then if vansuythen hadn t be with you. if it be for her sake that you ll have nothing to say to me you can make your mind easy. it s kurrell. 
what. say mr. vansuythen with an hysterical little laugh. kurrell. oh it can t be. you two must have make some horrible mistake. perhaps you you lose your temper or misunderstand or something. thing can t be a wrong a you say. 
mr. vansuythen have shift her defence to avoid the man s plead and be desperately try to keep him to a side issue. 
there must be some mistake she insist and it can be all put right again. 
boulte laugh grimly. 
it can t be captain kurrell. he tell me that he have never take the least the least interest in your wife mr. boulte. oh do listen. he say he have not. he swear he have not say mr. vansuythen. 
the purdah rustle and the speech be cut short by the entry of a little thin woman with big ring round her eye. mr. vansuythen stand up with a gasp. 
what be that you say. ask mr. boulte. never mind that man. what do ted say to you. what do he say to you. what do he say to you. 
mr. vansuythen sit down helplessly on the sofa overbear by the trouble of her questioner. 
he say i can t remember exactly what he say but i understand him to say that be but really mr. boulte isn t it rather a strange question. 
will you tell me what he say. repeat mr. boulte. 
even a tiger will fly before a bear rob of her whelp and mr. vansuythen be only an ordinarily good woman. she begin in a sort of desperation. well he say that he never care for you at all and of course there be not the least reason why he should have and and that be all. 
you say he swear he have not care for me. be that true. 
yes say mr. vansuythen very softly. 
mr. boulte waver for an instant where she stand and then fell forward faint. 
what do i tell you. say boulte a though the conversation have be unbroken. you can see for yourself she care for him. the light begin to break into his dull mind and he go on and he what be he say to you. 
but mr. vansuythen with no heart for explanation or impassioned protestation be kneel over mr. boulte. 
oh you brute. she cry. be all men like this. help me to get her into my room and her face be cut against the table. oh will you be quiet and help me to carry her. i hate you and i hate captain kurrell. lift her up carefully and now go. go away. 
boulte carry his wife into mr. vansuythen s bedroom and depart before the storm of that lady s wrath and disgust impenitent and burn with jealousy. kurrell have be make love to mr. vansuythen would do vansuythen a great a wrong a he have do boulte who catch himself consider whether mr. vansuythen would faint if she discover that the man she love have foresworn her. 
in the middle of these meditation kurrell come canter along the road and pull up with a cheery good mornin. be mash mr. vansuythen a usual eh. bad thing for a sober marry man that. what will mr boulte say. 
boulte raise his head and say slowly oh you liar. 
kurrell s face change. what s that. he ask quickly. 
nothing much say boulte. ha my wife tell you that you two be free to go off whenever you please. she ha be good enough to explain the situation to me. you ve be a true friend to me kurrell old man haven t you. 
kurrell groan and try to frame some sort of idiotic sentence about be will to give satisfaction. but his interest in the woman be dead have die out in the rain and mentally he be abuse her for her amaze indiscretion. it would have be so easy to have break off the thing gently and by degree and now he be saddle with boulte s voice recall him. 
i don t think i should get any satisfaction from kill you and i m pretty sure you d get none from kill me. 
then in a querulous tone ludicrously disproportioned to his wrong boulte add seem rather a pity that you haven t the decency to keep to the woman now you ve get her. you ve be a true friend to her too haven t you. 
kurrell star long and gravely. the situation be get beyond him. 
what do you mean. he say. 
boulte answer more to himself than the questioner. my wife come over to mr. vansuythen s just now. and it seem you d be tell mr. vansuythen that you d never care for emma. i suppose you lie a usual. what have mr. vansuythen to do with you or you with her. try to speak the truth for once in a way. 
kurrell take the double insult without wince and reply by another question. go on. what happen. 
emma faint say boulte simply. but look here what have you be say to mr. vansuythen. 
kurrell laugh. mr. boulte have with unbridle tongue make havoc of his plan. and he could at least retaliate by hurt the man in whose eye he be humiliate and show dishonorable. 
say to her. what doe a man tell a lie like that for. i suppose i say pretty much what you ve say unless i m a good deal mistake. 
i speak the truth say boulte again more to himself than kurrell. emma tell me she hat me. she ha no right in me. 
no. i suppose not. you re only her husband y know. and what do mr. vansuythen say after you have lay your disengage heart at her foot. 
kurrell felt almost virtuous a he put the question. 
i don t think that matter boulte reply. and it doesn t concern you. 
but it doe. i tell you it doe begin kurrell shamelessly. 
the sentence be cut by a roar of laughter from boulte s lip. kurrell be silent for an instant and then he too laugh laugh long and loudly rock in his saddle. it be an unpleasant sound the mirthless mirth of these men on the long white line of the narkarra road. there be no stranger in kashima or they might have think that captivity within the dosehri hill have drive half the european population mad. the laughter end abruptly and kurrell be the first to speak. 
well what be you go to do. 
boulte look up the road and at the hill. nothing say he quietly. what s the use. it s too ghastly for anything. we must let the old life go on. i can only call you a hound and a liar and i can t go on call you name forever. besides which i don t feel that i m much good. we can t get out of this place. what be there to do. 
kurrell look round the rat pit of kashima and make no reply. the injure husband take up the wondrous tale. 
ride on and speak to emma if you want to. god know i don t care what you do. 
he walk forward and leave kurrell gaze blankly after him. kurrell do not ride on either to see mr. boulte or mr. vansuythen. he sit in his saddle and think while his pony graze by the roadside. 
the whir of approach wheel rouse him. mr. vansuythen be drive home mr. boulte white and wan with a cut on her forehead. 
stop please say mr. boulte i want to speak to ted. 
mr. vansuythen obey but a mr. boulte lean forward put her hand upon the splash board of the dog cart kurrell speak. 
i ve see your husband mr. boulte. 
there be no necessity for any further explanation. the man s eye be fix not upon mr. boulte but her companion. mr. boulte saw the look. 
speak to him. she plead turn to the woman at her side. oh speak to him. tell him what you tell me just now. tell him you hate him. tell him you hate him. 
she bend forward and weep bitterly while the sais impassive go forward to hold the horse. mr. vansuythen turn scarlet and drop the rein. she wish to be no party to such unholy explanation. 
i ve nothing to do with it she begin coldly. but mr. boulte s sob overcome her and she address herself to the man. i don t know what i be to say captain kurrell. i don t know what i can call you. i think you ve you ve behave abominably and she ha cut her forehead terribly against the table. 
it doesn t hurt. it isn t anything say mr. boulte feebly. that doesn t matter. tell him what you tell me. say you don t care for him. oh ted win t you believe her. 
mr. boulte ha make me understand that you be that you be fond of her once upon a time go on mr. vansuythen. 
well. say kurrell brutally. it seem to me that mr. boulte have good be fond of her own husband first. 
stop. say mr. vansuythen. hear me first. i don t care i don t want to know anything about you and mr. boulte. but i want you to know that i hate you that i think you be a cur and that i ll never never speak to you again. oh i don t dare to say what i think of you you man. sais _gorah_ko_jane_do. 
i want to speak to ted moan mr. boulte but the dog cart rattle on and kurrell be leave on the road sham and boil with wrath against mr. boulte. 
he wait till mr. vansuythen be drive back to her own house and she be free from the embarrassment of mr. boulte s presence learn for the second time her opinion of himself and his action. 
in the evening it be the wont of all kashima to meet at the platform on the narkarra road to drink tea and discus the triviality of the day. major vansuythen and his wife find themselves alone at the gather place for almost the first time in their remembrance. and the cheery major in the teeth of his wife s remarkably reasonable suggestion that the rest of the station might be sick insist upon drive round to the two bungalow and unearth the population. 
sit in the twilight. say he with great indignation to the boultes. that ll never do. hang it all we re one family here. you must come out and so must kurrell. i ll make him bring his banjo. so great be the power of honest simplicity and a good digestion over guilty conscience that all kashima do turn out even down to the banjo. and the major embrace the company in one expansive grin. a he grin mr. vansuythen raise her eye for an instant and look at all kashima. her mean be clear. major vansuythen would never know anything. he be to be the outsider in that happy family whose cage be the dosehri hill. 
you re sing villainously out of tune kurrell say the major truthfully. pas me that banjo. 
and he sing in excruciate wise till the star come out and all kashima go to dinner. * * * * *. 
that be the begin of the new life of kashima the life that mr. boulte make when her tongue be loosen in the twilight. 
mr. vansuythen ha never tell the major. and since be insist upon keep up a burdensome geniality she ha be compel to break her vow of not speak to kurrell. this speech which must of necessity preserve the semblance of politeness and interest serf admirably to keep alive the flame of jealousy and dull hatred in boulte s bosom a it awaken the same passion in his wife s heart. mr. boulte hate mr. vansuythen because she ha take ted from her and in some curious fashion hate her because mr. vansuythen and here the wife s eye see far more clearly than the husband s detest ted. and ted that gallant captain and honorable man know now that it be possible to hate a woman once love to the verge of wish to silence her forever with blow. above all be he shock that mr. boulte cannot see the error of her way. 
boulte and he go out tiger shoot together in all friendship. boulte ha put their relationship on a most satisfactory foot. 
you re a blackguard he say to kurrell and i ve lose any self respect i may ever have have. but when you re with me i can feel certain that you be not with mr. vansuythen or make emma miserable. 
kurrell endure anything that boulte may say to him. sometimes they be away for three day together and then the major insist upon his wife go over to sit with mr boulte. although mr. vansuythen ha repeatedly de. dare that she prefer her husband s company to any in the world. from the way in which she cling to him she would certainly seem to be speak the truth. 
but of course a the major say in a little station we must all be friendly. 
the hill of illusion. 
what render vain their deep desire. a god a god their severance rule and bid between their shore to be the unplumbed salt estrange sea. matthew arnold. 
he. tell your jhampanis not to hurry so dear. they forget i m fresh from the plain. 
she. sure proof that i have not be go out with any one. yes they be an untrained crew. where do we go. 
he. a usual to the world s end. no jakko. 
she. have your pony lead after you then. it s a long round. 
he. and for the last time thank heaven. 
she. do you mean that still. i didn t dare to write to you about it. all these month. 
he. mean it. i ve be shape my affair to that end since autumn. what make you speak a though it have occur to you for the first time. 
she. i. oh. i don t know. i ve have long enough to think too. 
he. and you ve change your mind. 
she. no. you ought to know that i be a miracle of constancy. what be your arrangement. 
he. ours sweetheart please. 
she. ours be it then. my poor boy how the prickly heat ha mark your forehead. have you ever try sulphate of copper in water. 
he. it ll go away in a day or two up here. the arrangement be simple enough. tonga in the early morning reach kalka at twelve umballa at seven down straight by night train to bombay and then the steamer of the st for rome. that s my idea. the continent and sweden a ten week honeymoon. 
she. ssh. don t talk of it in that way. it make me afraid. guy how long have we two be insane. 
he. seven month and fourteen day. i forget the odd hour exactly but i ll think. 
she. i only want to see if you remember. who be those two on the blessington road. 
he. eabrey and the penner woman. what do they matter to u. tell me everything that you ve be do and say and think. 
she. do little say le and think a great deal. i ve hardly be out at all. 
ha. that be wrong of you. you haven t be mop. 
she. not very much. can you wonder that i m disincline for amusement. 
he. frankly i do. where be the difficulty. 
she. in this only. the more people i know and the more i m know here the wide spread will be the news of the crash when it come. i don t like that. 
he. nonsense. we shall be out of it. 
she. you think so. 
he. i m sure of it if there be any power in steam or horse flesh to carry u away. ha. ha. 
she. and the fun of the situation come in where my lancelot. 
he. nowhere guinevere. i be only think of something. 
she. they say men have a keen sense of humor than woman. now i be think of the scandal. 
he. don t think of anything so ugly. we shall be beyond it. 
she. it will be there all the same in the mouth of simla telegraph over india and talk of at the dinner and when he go out they will stare at him to see how he take it. and we shall be dead guy dear dead and cast into the out darkness where there be. 
he. love at least. isn t that enough. 
she. i have say so. 
he. and you think so still. 
she. what do you think. 
ha. what have i do. it mean equal ruin to me a the world reckon it outcasting the loss of my appointment the break of my life s work. i pay my price. 
she. and be you so much above the world that you can afford to pay it. be i. 
ha. my divinity what else. 
she. a very ordinary woman i m afraid but so far respectable. how d you do mr. middleditch. your husband. i think he s rid down to annandale with colonel statters. yes isn t it divine after the rain. guy how long be i to be allow to bow to mr. middleditch. till the th. 
he. frowsy scotchwoman. what be the use of bring her into the discussion. you be say. 
she. nothing. have you ever see a man hang. 
he. yes. once. 
she. what be it for. 
he. murder of course. 
she. murder. be that so great a sin after all. i wonder how he felt before the drop fell. 
he. i don t think he felt much. what a gruesome little woman it be this even. you re shiver. put on your cape dear. 
she. i think i will. oh. look at the mist come over sanjaoli. and i think we should have sunshine on the lady mile. let s turn back. 
he. what s the good. there s a cloud on elysium hill and that mean it s foggy all down the mall. we ll go on. it ll blow away before we get to the convent perhaps. jove. it be chilly. 
she. you feel it fresh from below. put on your ulster. what do you think of my cape. 
he. never ask a man his opinion of a woman s dress when he be desperately and abjectly in love with the wearer. let me look. like everything else of yours it s perfect. where do you get it from. 
she. he give it me on wednesday. our wed day you know. 
he. the deuce he do. he s grow generous in his old age. d you like all that frilly bunchy stuff at the throat. i don t. 
she. don t you. 
kind sir your courtesy a you go by the town sir pray you your love for me buy me a russet gown sir. 
he. i win t say. keek into the draw well janet janet. only wait a little darling and you shall be stock with russet gown and everything else. 
she. and when the frock wear out you ll get me new one and everything else. 
he. assuredly. 
she. i wonder. 
he. look here sweetheart i didn t spend two day and two night in the train to hear you wonder. i think we d settle all that at shaifazehat. 
she. dreamily. at shaifazehat. doe the station go on still. that be age and age ago. it must be crumble to piece. all except the amirtollah kutcha road. i don t believe that could crumble till the day of judgment. 
ha. you think so. what be the mood now. 
she. i can t tell. how cold it be. let u get on quickly. 
ha. good walk a little. stop your jhampanis and get out. what s the matter with you this even dear. 
she. nothing. you must grow accustom to my way. if i m bore you i can go home. here s captain congleton come. i dare say he ll be will to escort me. 
ha. goose. between u too. damn captain congleton. there. 
she. chivalrous knight. be it your habit to swear much in talk. it jar a little and you might swear at me. 
he. my angel. i didn t know what i be say. and you change so quickly that i couldn t follow. i ll apologize in dust and ash. 
she. there ll be enough of those late on. good night captain congleton. go to the sing quadrille already. what dance be i give you next week. no. you must have write them down wrong. five and seven i say. if you ve make a mistake i certainly don t intend to suffer for it. you must alter your programme. 
he. i think you tell me that you bad not be go out much this season. 
she. quite true but when i do i dance with captain congleton. he dance very nicely. 
he. and sit out with him i suppose. 
she. yes. have you any objection. shall i stand under the chandelier in future. 
he. what doe he talk to you about. 
she. what do men talk about when they sit out. 
ha. ugh. don t. well now i m up you must dispense with the fascinate congleton for a while. i don t like him. 
she. after a pause. do you know what you have say. 
he. can t say that i do exactly. i m not in the best of temper. 
she. so i see. and feel. my true and faithful lover where be your eternal constancy unalterable trust and reverent devotion. i remember those phrase. you seem to have forget them. i mention a man s name. 
he. a good deal more than that. 
she. well speak to him about a dance perhaps the last dance that i shall ever dance in my life before i. before i go away. and you at once distrust and insult me. 
he. i never say a word. 
she. how much do you imply. guy be this amount of confidence to be our stock to start the new life on. 
he. no of course not. i didn t mean that. on my word of honor i didn t. let it pas dear. please let it pas. 
she. this once yes and a second time and again and again all through the year when i shall be unable to resent it. you want too much my lancelot and. you know too much. 
hp. how do you mean. 
she. that be a part of the punishment. there cannot be perfect trust between u. 
he. in heaven s name why not. 
she. hush. the other place be quite enough. ask yourself. 
he. i don t follow. 
she. you trust me so implicitly that when i look at another man never mind guy. have you ever make love to a girl a good girl. 
he. something of the sort. century ago in the dark age before i ever meet you dear. 
she. tell me what you say to her. 
he. what doe a man say to a girl. i ve forget. 
she. i remember. he tell her that he trust her and worship the grind she walk on and that he ll love and honor and protect her till her die day. and so she marry in that belief. at least i speak of one girl who be not protect. 
he. well and then. 
she. and then guy and then that girl need ten time the love and trust and honor yes honor that be enough when she be only a mere wife if if the other life she choose to lead be to be make even bearable. do you understand. 
he. even bearable. it ll he paradise. 
she. ah. can you give me all i ve ask for not now nor a few month late but when you begin to think of what you might have do if you have keep your own appointment and your caste here when you begin to look upon me a a drag and a burden. i shall want it most then guy for there will be no one in the wide world but you. 
he. you re a little over tire tonight sweetheart and you re take a stage view of the situation. after the necessary business in the court the road be clear to. 
she. the holy state of matrimony. ha. ha. ha. 
he. ssh. don t laugh in that horrible way. 
she. i i c c c can t help it. isn t it too absurd. ah. ha. ha. ha. guy stop me quick or i shall l l laugh till we get to the church. 
he. for goodness sake stop. don t make an exhibition of yourself. what be the matter with you. 
she. n nothing. i m good now. 
he. that s all right. one moment dear. there s a little wisp of hair get loose from behind your right ear and it s straggle over your cheek. so. 
she. thank oo. i m fraid my hat s on one side too. 
he. what do you wear these huge dagger bonnet skewer for. they re big enough to kill a man with. 
she. oh. don t kill me though. you re stick it into my head. let me do it. you men be so clumsy. 
he. have you have many opportunity of compare u in this sort of work. 
she. guy what be my name. 
he. eh. i don t follow. 
she. here s my cardcase. can you read. 
he. yes. well. 
she. well that answer your question. you know the other man s name. be i sufficiently humble or would you like to ask me if there be any one else. 
he. i see now. my darling i never mean that for an instant. i be only joke. there. lucky there s no one on the road. they d be scandalize. 
she. they ll be more scandalize before the end. 
he. do on t. i don t like you to talk in that way. 
she. unreasonable man. who ask me to face the situation and accept it. tell me do i look like mr. penner. do i look like a naughty woman. swear i don t. give me your word of honor my honorable friend that i m not like mr. buzgago. that s the way she stand with her hand clasp at the back of her head. d you like that. 
he. don t be affect. 
she. i m not. i m mr. buzgago. listen. 
pendant une anne toute entiere le regiment n a pa r paru. au ministere de la guerre on le r porta comme perdu. 
on se r noncait a r trouver sa trace quand un matin subitement on le vit r paraitre sur la place l colonel toujours en avant. 
that s the way she roll her r s. be i like her. 
he. no but i object when you go on like an actress and sing stuff of that kind. where in the world do you pick up the chanson du colonel. it isn t a draw room song. it isn t proper. 
she. mr. buzgago teach it me. she be both draw room and proper and in another month she ll shut her draw room to me and thank god she isn t a improper a i be. oh guy guy. i wish i be like some woman and have no scruple about what be it keene say. wear a corpse s hair and be false to the bread they eat. 
he. i be only a man of limit intelligence and just now very bewilder. when you have quite finish flash through all your mood tell me and i ll try to understand the last one. 
she. mood guy. i haven t any. i m sixteen year old and you re just twenty and you ve be wait for two hour outside the school in the cold. and now i ve meet you and now we re walk home together. doe that suit you my imperial majesty. 
he. no. we aren t child. why can t you be rational. 
she. he ask me that when i m go to commit suicide for his sake and and i don t want to be french and rave about my mother but have i ever tell you that i have a mother and a brother who be my pet before i marry. he s marry now. can t you imagine the pleasure that the news of the elopement will give him. have you any people at home guy to be please with your performance. 
he. one or two. one can t make omelet without break egg. 
she. slowly. i don t see the necessity. 
he. hah. what do you mean. 
she. shall i speak the truth. 
he. under the circumstance perhaps it would be a well. 
she. guy i m afraid. 
he. i think we d settle all that. what of. 
she. of you. 
he. oh damn it all. the old business. this be too have. 
she. of you. 
he. and what now. 
she. what do you think of me. 
he. beside the question altogether. what do you intend to do. 
she. i daren t risk it. i m afraid. if i could only cheat. 
he. a la buzgago. no thank. that s the one point on which i have any notion of honor. i win t eat his salt and steal too. i ll loot openly or not at all. 
she. i never mean anything else. 
he. then why in the world do you pretend not to be will to come. 
she. it s not pretence guy. i be afraid. 
he. please explain. 
she. it can t last guy. it can t last. you ll get angry and then you ll swear and then you ll get jealous and then you ll mistrust me you do now and you yourself will be the best reason for doubt. and i what shall i do. i shall be no good than mr. buzgago find out no good than any one. and you ll know that. oh guy can t you see. 
he. i see that you be desperately unreasonable little woman. 
she. there. the moment i begin to object you get angry. what will you do when i be only your property steal property. it can t be guy. it can t be. i think it could but it can t. you ll get tire of me. 
he. i tell you i shall not. win t anything make you understand that. 
she. there can t you see. if you speak to me like that now you ll call me horrible name late if i don t do everything a you like. and if you be cruel to me guy where should i go where should i go. i can t trust you. oh. i can t trust you. 
he. i suppose i ought to say that i can trust you. i ve ample reason. 
she. please don t dear. it hurt a much a if you hit me. 
he. it isn t exactly pleasant for me. 
she. i can t help it. i wish i be dead. i can t trust you and i don t trust myself. oh guy let it die away and be forget. 
he. too late now. i don t understand you i win t and i can t trust myself to talk this even. may i call tomorrow. 
she. yes. no. oh give me time. the day after. i get into my rickshaw here and meet him at peliti s. you ride. 
he. i ll go on to peliti s too. i think i want a drink. my world s knock about my ear and the star be fall. who be those brute howl in the old library. 
she. they re rehearse the sing quadrille for the fancy ball. can t you hear mr. buzgago s voice. she ha a solo. it s quite a new idea. listen. 
mr. buzgago. in the old library con. molt. exp. 
see saw. margery daw. sell her bed to lie upon straw. wasn t she a silly slut to sell her bed and lie upon dirt. 
captain congleton i m go to alter that to flirt. it sound good. 
he. no i ve change my mind about the drink. good night little lady. i shall see you tomorrow. 
she. y~es. good night guy. don t be angry with me. 
he. angry. you know i trust you absolutely. good night and god bless you. 
three second late. alone. hmm. i d give something to discover whether there s another man at the back of all this. 
a second rate woman. 
est fuga volvitur rota on we drift. where loom the dim port. one two three four five contribute their quota. something be gain if one catch but the import show it u hugues of saxe gotha. 
master hugues of saxe gotha. 
dress. don t tell me that woman ever dress in her life. she stand in the middle of her room while her ayah no her husband it must have be a man throw her clothe at her. she then do her hair with her finger and rub her bonnet in the flue under the bed. i know she do a well a if i have assist at the orgy. who be she. say mr. hauksbee. 
don t. say mr. mallowe feebly. you make my head ache. i m miserable today. stay me with fondant comfort me with chocolate for i be do you bring anything from peliti s. 
question to begin with. you shall have the sweet when you have answer them. who and what be the creature. there be at least half a dozen men round her and she appear to be go to sleep in their midst. 
delville say mr. mallowe shady delville to distinguish her from mr. jim of that ilk. she dance a untidily a she dress i believe and her husband be somewhere in madras. go and call if you be so interest. 
what have i to do with shigramitish woman. she merely catch my attention for a minute and i wonder at the attraction that a dowd ha for a certain type of man. i expect to see her walk out of her clothe until i look at her eye. 
hook and eye surely drawl mr. mallowe. 
don t be clever polly. you make my head ache. and round this hayrick stand a crowd of men a positive crowd. 
perhaps they also expect. 
polly don t be rabelaisian. 
mr. mallowe curl herself up comfortably on the sofa and turn her attention to the sweet. she and mr. hauksbee share the same house at simla. and these thing befall two season after the matter of otis yeere which ha be already record. 
mr. hauksbee step into the veranda and look down upon the mall her forehead pucker with think. 
hah. say mr. hauksbee shortly. indeed. 
what be it. say mr. mallowe sleepily. 
that dowd and the dance master to whom i object. 
why to the dance master. he be a middle age gentleman of reprobate and romantic tendency and try to be a friend of mine. 
then make up your mind to lose him. dowds cling by nature and i should imagine that this animal how terrible her bonnet look from above. be specially clingsome. 
she be welcome to the dance master so far a i be concern. i never could take an interest in a monotonous liar. the frustrate aim of his life be to persuade people that he be a bachelor. 
oh. i think i ve meet that sort of man before. and isn t he. 
no. he confide that to me a few day ago. ugh. some men ought to he kill. 
what happen then. 
he pose a the horror of horror a misunderstand man. heaven know the femme incomprise be sad enough and have enough but the other thing. 
and so fat too. i should have laugh in his face. men seldom confide in me. how be it they come to you. 
for the sake of impress me with their career in the past. protect me from men with confidence. 
and yet you encourage them. 
what can i do. they talk. i listen and they vow that i be sympathetic. i know i always profess astonishment even when the plot be of the most old possible. 
yes. men be so unblushingly explicit if they be once allow to talk whereas woman s confidence be full of reservation and fib except. 
when they go mad and babble of the unutterabilities after a week s acquaintance. really if you come to consider we know a great deal more of men than of our own sex. 
and the extraordinary thing be that men will never believe it. they say we be try to hide something. 
they be generally do that on their own account. ala. these chocolate pall upon me and i haven t eat more than a dozen. i think i shall go to sleep. then you ll get fat. dear. if you take more exercise and a more intelligent interest in your neighbor you would. 
be a much love a mr. hauksbee. you re a darling in many way and i like you you be not a woman s woman but why do you trouble yourself about mere human being. 
because in the absence of angel who i be sure would be horribly dull men and woman be the most fascinate thing in the whole wide world lazy one. i be interest in the dowd i be interest in the dance master i be interest in the hawley boy and i be interest in you. 
why couple me with the hawley boy. he be your property. 
yes and in his own guileless speech i m make a good thing out of him. when he be slightly more reform and ha pass his high standard or whatever the authority think fit to exact from him i shall select a pretty little girl the holt girl i think and here she wave her hand airily whom mr. hauksbee bath join together let no man put asunder. that s all. 
and when you have yoke may holt with the most notorious detrimental in simla and earn the undying hatred of mamma holt what will you do with me dispenser of the destiny of the universe. 
mr. hauksbee drop into a low chair in front of the fire and chin in band gaze long and steadfastly at mr. mallowe. 
i do not know she say shake her head what i shall do with you dear. it s obviously impossible to marry you to some one else your husband would object and the experiment might not be successful after all. i think i shall begin by prevent you from what be it. sleep on ale house bench and snore in the sun. 
don t. i don t like your quotation. they be so rude. go to the library and bring me new book. 
while you sleep. no. if you don t come with me i shall spread your new frock on my rickshaw bow and when any one ask me what i be do i shall say that i be go to phelps s to get it let out. i shall take care that mr. macnamara see me. put your thing on there s a good girl. 
mr. mallowe groan and obey and the two go off to the library where they find mr. delville and the man who go by the nickname of the dance master. by that time mr mallowe be awake and eloquent. 
that be the creature. say mr hauksbee with the air of one point out a slug in the road. 
no say mr. mallowe. the man be the creature. ugh. good even mr. bend. i think you be come to tea this even. 
surely it be for tomorrow be it not. answer the dance master. i understand. i fancy. i m so sorry. how very unfortunate. 
but mr. mallowe have pass on. 
for the practice equivocator you say he be murmur mr. hauksbee he strike me a a failure. now wherefore should he have prefer a walk with the dowd to tea with u. elective affinity i suppose both grubby. polly i d never forgive that woman a long a the world roll. 
i forgive every woman everything say mr. mallowe. he will be a sufficient punishment for her. what a common voice she ha. 
mr. delville s voice be not pretty her carriage be even le lovely and her raiment be strikingly neglect. all these thing mr. mallowe notice over the top of a magazine. 
now what be there in her. say mr. hauksbee. do you see what i mean about the clothe fall off. if i be a man i would perish sooner than be see with that rag bag. and yet she ha good eye but oh. 
what be it. 
she doesn t know how to use them. on my honor she doe not. look. oh look. untidiness i can endure but ignorance never. the woman s a fool. 
h sh. she ll hear you. 
all the woman in simla be fool. she ll think i mean some one else. now she s go out. what a thoroughly objectionable couple she and the dance master make. which remind me. do you suppose they ll ever dance together. 
wait and see. i don t envy her the conversation of the dance master loathly man. his wife ought to be up here before long. 
do you know anything about him. 
only what he tell me. it may be a a fiction. he marry a girl breed in the country i think and be an honorable chivalrous soul tell me that he repent his bargain and send her to her mother a often a possible a person who ha live in the doon since the memory of man and go to mussoorie when other people go home. the wife be with her at present. so he say. 
baby. 
one only but he talk of his wife in a revolt way. i hat him for it. he think he be be epigrammatic and brilliant. 
that be a vice peculiar to men. i dislike him because he be generally in the wake of some girl disappoint the eligibles. he will persecute may holt no more unless i be much mistake. 
no. i think mr. delville may occupy his attention for a while. 
do you suppose she know that he be the head of a family. 
not from his lip. he swear me to eternal secrecy. wherefore i tell you. don t you know that type of man. 
not intimately thank goodness. a a general rule when a man begin to abuse his wife to me i find that the lord give me wherewith to answer him accord to his folly. and we part with a coolness between u. i laugh. 
i m different. i ve no sense of humor. 
cultivate it then. it ha be my mainstay for more year than i care to think about. a well educate sense of humor will save a woman when religion train and home influence fail. and we may all need salvation sometimes. 
do you suppose that the delville woman ha humor. 
her dress betray her. how can a thing who wear her supple ment under her leave arm have any notion of the fitness of thing much le their folly. if she discard the dance master after have once see him dance i may respect her otherwise. 
but be we not both assume a great deal too much dear. you saw the woman at peliti s half an hour late you saw her walk with the dance master an hour late you meet her here at the library. 
still with the dance master remember. 
still with the dance master i admit but why on the strength of that should you imagine. 
i imagine nothing. i have no imagination. i be only convince that the dance master be attract to the dowd because he be objectionable in every way and she in every other. if i know the man a you have describe him he hold his wife in slavery at present. 
she be twenty year young than he. 
poor wretch. and in the end after he ha pose and swagger and lie he ha a mouth under that rag moustache simply make for lie he will be reward accord to his merit. 
i wonder what those really be say mr. mallowe. 
but mr. hauksbee her face close to the shelf of the new book be hum softly. what shall he have who kill the deer. she be a lady of unfettered speech. 
one month late she announce her intention of call upon mr. delville. both mr. hauksbee and mr. mallowe be in morning wrapper and there be a great peace in the land. 
i should go a i be say mr. mallowe. it would be a delicate compliment to her style. 
mr. hauksbee study herself in the glass. 
assume for a moment that she ever darken these door i should put on this robe after all the others to show her what a morning wrapper ought to be. it might enliven her. a it be i shall go in the dive color sweet emblem of youth and innocence and shall put on my new glove. 
if you really be go dirty tan would be too good. and you know that dive color spot with the rain. 
i care not. i may make her envious. at least i shall try though one cannot expect very much from a woman who put a lace tucker into her habit. 
just heaven. when do she do that. 
yesterday rid with the dance master. i meet them at the back of jakko and the rain have make the lace lie down. to complete the effect she be wear an unclean terai with the elastic under her chin. i felt almost too well content to take the trouble to despise her. 
the hawley boy be rid with you. what do he think. 
doe a boy ever notice these thing. should i like him if he do. he star in the rude way and just when i think he have see the elastic he say there s something very take about that face. i rebuke him on the spot. i don t approve of boy be take by face. 
other than your own. i shouldn t be in the least surprise if the hawley boy immediately go to call. 
i forbid him. let her be satisfy with the dance master and his wife when she come up. i m rather curious to see mr. bend and the delville woman together. 
mr. hauksbee depart and at the end of an hour return slightly flush. 
there be no limit to the treachery of youth. i order the hawley boy a he value my patronage not to call. the first person i stumble over literally stumble over in her poky dark little draw room be of course the hawley boy. she keep u wait ten minute and then emerge a though he have be tip out of the dirty clothe basket. you know my way dear when i be all put out. i be superior crrrushingly superior. lift my eye to heaven and have hear of nothing drop my eye on the carpet and really didn t know play with my cardcase and suppose so. the hawley boy giggle like a girl and i have to freeze him with scowl between the sentence. 
and she. 
she sit in a heap on the edge of a couch and manage to convey the impression that she be suffer from stomach ache at the very least. it be all i could do not to ask after her symptom. when i rise she grunt just like a buffalo in the water too lazy to move. be you certain. 
be i blind polly. laziness sheer laziness nothing else or her garment be only construct for sit down in. i stay for a quarter of an hour try to penetrate the gloom to guess what her surround be like while she stick out her tongue. 
lu cy. 
well i ll withdraw the tongue though i m sure if she didn t do it when i be in the room she do the minute i be outside. at any rate she lay in a lump and grunt. ask the hawley boy dear. i believe the grunt be mean for sentence. but she speak so indistinctly that i can t swear to it. 
you be incorrigible simply. 
i be not. treat me civilly give me peace with honor don t put the only available seat face the window and a child may eat jam in my lap before church. but i resent be grunt at. wouldn t you. do you suppose that she communicate her view on life and love to the dance master in a set of modulate grmphs. 
you attach too much importance to the dance master. 
he come a we go and the dowd grow almost cordial at the sight of him. he smile greasily and move about that darken dog kennel in a suspiciously familiar way. 
don t be uncharitable. any sin but that i ll forgive. 
listen to the voice of history. i be only describe what i saw. he enter the heap on the sofa revive slightly and the hawley boy and i come away together. he be disillusion hut i felt it my duty to lecture him severely for go there. and that s all. 
now for pity s sake leave the wretched creature and the dance master alone. they never do you any harm. 
no harm. to dress a an example and a stumble block for half simla and then to find this person who be dress by the hand of god not that i wish to disparage him for a moment but you know the tikka dhurzie way he attire those lily of the field this person draw the eye of men and some of them nice men. it s almost enough to make one discard clothe. i tell the hawley boy so. 
and what do that sweet youth do. 
turn shell pink and look across the far blue hill like a distress cherub. be i talk wildly polly. let me say my say and i shall be calm. otherwise i may go abroad and disturb simla with a few original reflection. except always your own sweet self there isn t a single woman in the land who understand me when i be what s the word. 
tete fele e suggest mr. mallowe. 
exactly. and now let u have tiffin. the demand of society be exhaust and a mr. delville say here mr. hauksbee to the horror of the khitmatgars lapse into a series of grunt while mr. mallowe star in lazy surprise. 
god gie u a gude conceit of oorselves say mr. hauksbee piously return to her natural speech. now in any other woman that would have be vulgar. i be consume with curiosity to see mr. bend. i expect complication. 
woman of one idea say mr. mallowe shortly. all complication be a old a the hill. i have live through or near all all all. 
and yet do not understand that men and woman never behave twice alike. i be old who be young if ever i put my head in your lap you dear big sceptic you will learn that my part be gauze but never no never have i lose my interest in men and woman. polly i shall see this business out to the bitter end. 
i be go to sleep say mr. mallowe calmly. i never interfere with men or woman unless i be compel and she retire with dignity to her own room. 
mr. hauksbee s curiosity be not long leave ungratified for mr. bend come up to simla a few day after the conversation faithfully report above and pervade the mall by her husband s side. 
behold. say mr. hauksbee thoughtfully rub her nose. that be the last link of the chain if we omit the husband of the delville whoever he may be. let me consider. the bent and the delvilles inhabit the same hotel. and the delville be detest by the waddy do you know the waddy. who be almost a big a dowd. the waddy also abominate the male bend for which if her other sin do not weigh too heavily she will eventually be catch up to heaven. 
don t be irreverent say mr. mallowe. i like mr. bend s face. 
i be discuss the waddy return mr. hauksbee loftily. the waddy will take the female bend apart after have borrow yes. everything that she can from hairpin to baby bottle. such my dear be life in a hotel. the waddy will tell the female bend fact and fiction about the dance master and the dowd. 
lucy i should like you good if you be not always look into people s back bedroom. 
anybody can look into their front draw room. and remember whatever i do and whatever i look i never talk a the waddy will. let u hope that the dance master s greasy smile and manner of the pedagogue will soften the heart of that cow his wife. if mouth speak truth i should think that little mr. bend could get very angry on occasion. 
but what reason ha she for be angry. 
what reason. the dance master in himself be a reason. how doe it go. if in his life some trivial error fall look in his face and you ll believe them all. i be prepare to credit any evil of the dance master because i hate him so. and the dowd be so disgustingly badly dress. 
that she too be capable of every iniquity. i always prefer to believe the best of everybody. it save so much trouble. 
very good. i prefer to believe the bad. it save useless expenditure of sympathy. and you may be quite certain that the waddy belief with me. 
mr. mallowe sigh and make no answer. 
the conversation be holden after dinner while mr. hauksbee be dress for a dance. 
i be too tire to go plead mr. mallowe and mr. hauksbee leave her in peace till two in the morning when she be aware of emphatic knock at her door. 
don t be very angry dear say mr. hauksbee. my idiot of an ayah ha go home and a i hope to sleep tonight there isn t a soul in the place to unlace me. 
oh this be too bad. say mr. mallowe sulkily. 
can t help it. i m a lone lorn grass widow dear but i will not sleep in my stay. and such news too. oh do unlace me there s a darling. the dowd the dance master i and the hawley boy you know the north veranda. 
how can i do anything if you spin round like this. protest mr. mallowe fumble with the knot of the lace. 
oh i forget. i must tell my tale without the aid of your eye. do you know you ve lovely eye dear. well to begin with i take the hawley boy to a kala juggah. 
do he want much take. 
lot. there be an arrangement of loose box in kanats and she be in the next one talk to him. 
which. how. explain. 
you know what i mean the dowd and the dance master. we could hear every word and we listen shamelessly specially the hawley boy. polly i quite love that woman. 
this be interest. there. now turn round. what happen. 
one moment. ah h. bless relief. i ve be look forward to take them off for the last half hour which be ominous at my time of life. but a i be say we listen and hear the dowd drawl bad than ever. she drop her final g s like a barmaid or a blue blood aide de camp. look he ere you re gettin too fond me she say and the dance master own it be so in language that nearly make me ill. the dowd reflect for a while. then we hear her say look he ere mister bend why be you such an awful liar. i nearly explode while the dance master deny the charge. it seem that he never tell her he be a marry man. 
i say he wouldn t. 
~and she have take this to heart on personal ground i suppose. she drawl along for five minute reproach him with his perfidy and grow quite motherly. now you ve get a nice little wife of your own you have she say. she s ten time too good for a fat old man like you and look he ere you never tell me a word about her and i ve be thinkin about it a good deal and i think you re a liar. wasn t that delicious. the dance master maunder and rave till the hawley boy suggest that he should burst in and beat him. his voice run up into an impassioned squeak when he be afraid. the dowd must be an extraordinary woman. she explain that have he be a bachelor she might not have object to his devotion. but since he be a marry man and the father of a very nice baby she consider him a hypocrite and this she repeat twice. she wind up her drawl with. an i m tellin you this because your wife be angry with me an i hate quarrellin with any other woman an i like your wife. you know how you have behave for the last six week. you shouldn t have do it indeed you shouldn t. you re too old an fat. can t you imagine how the dance master would wince at that. now go away she say. i don t want to tell you what i think of you because i think you be not nice. i ll stay he ere till the next dance begin. do you think that the creature have so much in her. 
i never study her a closely a you do. it sound unnatural. what happen. 
the dance master attempt blandishment reproof jocularity and the style of the lord high warden and i have almost to pinch the hawley boy to make him keep quiet. she grunt at the end of each sentence and in the end he go away swear to himself quite like a man in a novel. he look more objectionable than ever. i laugh. i love that woman in spite of her clothe. and now i m go to bed. what do you think of it. 
i sha n t begin to think till the morning say mr. mallowe yawn perhaps she speak the truth. they do fly into it by accident sometimes. 
mr. hauksbee s account of her eavesdrop be an ornate one but truthful in the main. for reason best know to herself mr. shady delville have turn upon mr bend and rent him limb from limb cast him away limp and disconcert ere she withdraw the light of her eye from him permanently. be a man of resource and anything but please in that he have be call both old and fat he give mr. bend to understand that he have during her absence in the doon be the victim of unceasing persecution at the hand of mr. delville and he tell the tale so often and with such eloquence that he end in believe it while his wife marvel at the manner and custom of some woman. when the situation show sign of languish mr. waddy be always on hand to wake the smoulder fire of suspicion in mr. bend s bosom and to contribute generally to the peace and comfort of the hotel. mr. bend s life be not a happy one for if mr. waddy s story be true he be argue his wife untrustworthy to the last degree. if his own statement be true his charm of manner and conversation be so great that he need constant surveillance. and he receive it till he repent genuinely of his marriage and neglect his personal appearance. mr. delville alone in the hotel be unchanged. she remove her chair some six pace toward the head of the table and occasionally in the twilight venture on timid overture of friendship to mr. bend which be repulse. 
she doe it for my sake hint the virtuous bend. 
a dangerous and design woman purr mr. waddy. 
bad of all every other hotel in simla be full. * * * * * *. 
polly be you afraid of diphtheria. 
of nothing in the world except smallpox. diphtheria kill but it doesn t disfigure. why do you ask. 
because the bend baby ha get it and the whole hotel be upside down in consequence. the waddy ha set her five young on the rail and flee. the dance master fear for his precious throat and that miserable little woman his wife ha no notion of what ought to be do. she want to put it into a mustard bath for croup. 
where do you learn all this. 
just now on the mall. dr. howlen tell me. the manager of the hotel be abuse the bent and the bent be abuse the manager. they be a feckless couple. 
well. what s on your mind. 
this. and i know it s a grave thing to ask. would you seriously object to my bring the child over here with it mother. 
on the most strict understand that we see nothing of the dance master. 
he will be only too glad to stay away. polly you re an angel. the woman really be at her wit end. 
and you know nothing about her careless and would hold her up to public scorn if it give you a minute s amusement. therefore you risk your life for the sake of her brat. no loo i m not the angel. i shall keep to my room and avoid her. but do a you please only tell me why you do it. 
mr. hauksbee s eye soften. she look out of the window and back into mr. mallowe s face. 
i don t know say mr. hauksbee simply. 
you dear. 
polly. and for aught you know you might have take my fringe off. never do that again without warn. now we ll get the room ready. i don t suppose i shall be allow to circulate in society for a month. 
and i also. thank goodness i shall at last get all the sleep i want. 
much to mr. bend s surprise she and the baby be bring over to the house almost before she know where she be. bend be devoutly and undisguisedly thankful for he be afraid of the infection and also hop that a few week in the hotel alone with mr. delville might lead to explanation. mr. bend have throw her jealousy to the wind in her fear for her child s life. 
we can give you good milk say mr. hauksbee to her and our house be much near to the doctor s than the hotel and you win t feel a though you be live in a hostile camp where be the dear mr. waddy. she seem to be a particular friend of yours. 
they ve all leave me say mr. bend bitterly. mr. waddy go first. she say i ought to be ashamed of myself for introduce disease there and i be sure it wasn t my fault that little dora. 
how nice. coo mr. hauksbee. the waddy be an infectious disease herself more quickly catch than the plague and the taker run presently mad. i live next door to her at the elysium three year ago. now see you win t give u the least trouble and i ve ornament all the house with sheet soak in carbolic. it smell comfort doesn t it. remember i m always in call and my ayah s at your service when yours go to her meal and and. if you cry i ll never forgive you. 
dora bend occupy her mother s unprofitable attention through the day and the night. the doctor call thrice in the twenty four hour and the house reek with the smell of the condy s fluid chlorine water and carbolic acid wash. mr. mallowe keep to her own room she consider that she have make sufficient concession in the cause of humanity and mr. hauksbee be more esteem by the doctor a a help in the sick room than the half distraught mother. 
i know nothing of illness say mr. hauksbee to the doctor. only tell me what to do and i ll do it. 
keep that crazy woman from kiss the child and let her have a little to do with the nurse a you possibly can say the doctor. i d turn her out of the sick room but that i honestly believe she d die of anxiety. she be le than no good and i depend on you and the ayah remember. 
mr. hauksbee accept the responsibility though it paint olive hollow under her eye and force her to her old dress. mr. bend cling to her with more than childlike faith. 
i know you ll make dora well win t you. she say at least twenty time a day. and twenty time a day mr. hauksbee answer valiantly of course i will. 
but dora do not improve and the doctor seem to be always in the house. 
there s some danger of the thing take a bad turn he say. i ll come over between three and four in the morning tomorrow. 
good gracious. say mr. hauksbee. he never tell me what the turn would be. my education ha be horribly neglect. and i have only this foolish mother woman to fall back upon. 
the night wear through slowly and mr. hauksbee doze in a chair by the fire. there be a dance at the viceregal lodge and she dream of it till she be aware of mr. bend s anxious eye star into her own. 
wake up. wake up. do something. cry mr. bend piteously. dora s choke to death. do you mean to let her die. 
mr. hauksbee jump to her foot and bend over the bed. the child be fight for breath while the mother wring her hand despair. 
oh what can i do. what can you do. she win t stay still. i can t hold her. why didn t the doctor say this be come. scream mr. bend. win t you help me. she s die. 
i i ve never see a child die before. stammer mr. hauksbee feebly and then let none blame her weakness after the strain of long watch she break down and cover her face with her hand. the ayah on the threshold snore peacefully. 
there be a rattle of rickshaw wheel below the clash of an open door a heavy step on the stair and mr. delville enter to find mr. bend scream for the doctor a she run round the room. mr. hauksbee her hand to her ear and her face bury in the chintz of a chair be quiver with pain at each cry from the bed and murmur thank god i never bore a child. oh. thank god i never bore a child. 
mr. delville look at the bed for an instant take mr. bend by the shoulder and say quietly get me some caustic. be quick. 
the mother obey mechanically. mr. delville have throw herself down by the side of the child and be open it mouth. 
oh you re kill her. cry mr. bend. where s the doctor. leave her alone. 
mr. delville make no reply for a minute but busy herself with the child. 
now the caustic and hold a lamp behind my shoulder. will you do a you be tell. the acid bottle if you don t know what i mean she say. 
a second time mr. delville bend over the child. mr. hauksbee her face still hide sob and shiver. one of the ayah stagger sleepily into the room yawn. doctor sahib come. 
mr. delville turn her head. 
you re only just in time she say. it be chokin her when i come in an i ve burn it. 
there be no sign of the membrane get to the air passage after the last steam. it be the general weakness i fear say the doctor half to himself and he whisper a he look. you ve do what i should have be afraid to do without consultation. 
she be dyin say mr. delville under her breath. can you do anythin. what a mercy it be i go to the dance. 
mr. hauksbee raise her head. 
be it all over. she gasp. i m useless i m bad than useless. what be you do here. 
she star at mr. delville and mr. bend realize for the first time who be the goddess from the machine. star also. 
then mr. delville make explanation put on a dirty long glove and smooth a crumple and ill fit ball dress. 
i be at the dance an the doctor be tellin me about your baby bein so ill. so i come away early an your door be open an i i lose my boy this way six month ago an i ve be tryin to forget it ever since an i i i be very sorry for intrudin an anythin that ha happen. 
mr. bend be put out the doctor s eye with a lamp a he stoop over dora. 
take it away say the doctor. i think the child will do thank to you mr. delville. i should have come too late but i assure you he be address himself to mr. delville i have not the faint reason to expect this. the membrane must have grow like a mushroom. will one of you help me please. 
he have reason for the last sentence. mr. hauksbee have throw herself into mr. delville s arm where she be weep bitterly and mr. bend be unpicturesquely mix up with both while from the tangle come the sound of many sob and much promiscuous kiss. 
good gracious. i ve spoil all your beautiful rose. say mr. hauksbee lift her head from the lump of crush gum and calico atrocity on mr. delville s shoulder and hurry to the doctor. 
mr. delville pick up her shawl and slouch out of the room mop her eye with the glove that she have not put on. 
i always say she be more than a woman sob mr. hauksbee hysterically and that prof it. * * * * * *. 
six week late mr. bend and dora have return to the hotel. mr. hauksbee have come out of the valley of humiliation have cease to reproach herself for her collapse in an hour of need and be even begin to direct the affair of the world a before. 
so nobody die and everything go off a it should and i kiss the dowd polly. i feel so old. doe it show in my face. 
kiss don t a a rule do they. of course you know what the result of the dowd s providential arrival ha be. 
they ought to build her a statue only no sculptor dare copy those skirt. 
ah. say mr. mallowe quietly. she ha find another reward. the dance master ha be smirk through simla give every one to understand that she come because of her undying love for him for him to save his child and all simla naturally belief this. 
but mr. bend. 
mr. bend belief it more than any one else. she win t speak to the dowd now. isn t the dance master an angel. 
mr. hauksbee lift up her voice and rag till bedtime. the door of the two room stand open. 
polly say a voice from the darkness what do that american heiress globe trotter girl say last season when she be tip out of her rickshaw turn a corner. some absurd adjective that make the man who pick her up explode. 
paltry say mr. mallowe. through her nose like this ha ow pahltry. 
exactly say the voice. ha ow pahltry it all be. 
which. everything. baby diphtheria mr. bend and the dance master i whoop in a chair and the dowd drop in from the cloud. i wonder what the motive be all the motif. 
um. 
what do you think. 
don t ask me. she be a woman. go to sleep. 
* * * * * *. 
only a subaltern. 
not only to enforce by command but to encourage by example the energetic discharge of duty and the steady endurance of the difficulty and privation inseparable from military service. bengal army regulation. 
they make bobby wick pas an examination at sandhurst. he be a gentleman before he be gazette so when the empress announce that gentleman cadet robert hanna wick be post a second lieutenant to the tyneside tail twister at kram bokhar he become an officer and a gentleman which be an enviable thing. and there be joy in the house of wick where mamma wick and all the little wick fell upon their knee and offer incense to bobby by virtue of his achievement. 
papa wick have be a commissioner in his day hold authority over three million of men in the chota buldana division build great work for the good of the land and do his best to make two blade of grass grow where there be but one before. of course nobody know anything about this in the little english village where he be just old mr. wick and have forget that he be a companion of the order of the star of india. 
he pat bobby on the shoulder and say. well do my boy. 
there follow while the uniform be be prepare an interval of pure delight during which bobby take brevet rank a a man at the women~swamped tennis party and tea fight of the village and i dare say have his join time be extend would have fall in love with several girl at once. little country village at home be very full of nice girl because all the young men come out to india to make their fortune. 
india say papa wick be the place. i ve have thirty year of it and begad i d like to go back again. when you join the tail twister you ll be among friend if every one hasn t forget wick of chota buldana and a lot of people will be kind to you for our sake. the mother will tell you more about outfit than i can but remember this. stick to your regiment bobby stick to your regiment. you ll see men all round you go into the staff corp and do every possible sort of duty but regimental and you may be tempt to follow suit. now so long a you keep within your allowance and i haven t stint you there stick to the line the whole line and nothing but the line. be careful how you back another young fool s bill and if you fall in love with a woman twenty year old than yourself don t tell me about it that s all. 
with these counsel and many others equally valuable do papa wick fortify bobby ere that last awful night at portsmouth when the officer quarter hold more inmate than be provide for by the regulation and the liberty men of the ship fell foul of the draft for india and the battle rag from the dockyard gate even to the slum of longport while the drab of fratton come down and scratch the face of the queen s officer. 
bobby wick with an ugly bruise on his freckle nose a sick and shaky detachment to manoeuvre inship and the comfort of fifty scornful female to attend to have no time to feel homesick till the malabar reach mid channel when he double his emotion with a little guard visit and a great many other matter. 
the tail twister be a most particular regiment. those who know them least say that they be eat up with side. but their reserve and their internal arrangement generally be merely protective diplomacy. some five year before the colonel command have look into the fourteen fearless eye of seven plump and juicy subaltern who have all apply to enter the staff corp and have ask them why the three star should he a colonel of the line command a dash nursery for double dash bottle sucker who put on condemn tin spur and ride qualify moke at the hiatused head of forsake black regiment. he be a rude man and a terrible. wherefore the remnant take measure [with the half butt a an engine of public opinion] till the rumor go abroad that young men who use the tail twister a a crutch to the staff corp have many and vary trial to endure. however. a regiment have just a much right to it own secret a a woman. 
when bobby come up from deolali and take his place among the tail twister it be gently hut firmly bear in upon him that the regiment be his father and his mother and his indissolubly wed wife and that there be no crime under the canopy of heaven black than that of bring shame on the regiment which be the best shoot best drill best set up brave most illustrious and in all respect most desirable regiment within the compass of the seven sea. he be teach the legend of the mess plate from the great grin golden god that have come out of the summer palace in pekin to the silver mount markhor horn snuff mull present by the last c. [he who spake to the seven subalterns]. and every one of those legend tell him of battle fight at long odds without fear a without support. of hospitality catholic a an arab s. of friendship deep a the sea and steady a the fight line. of honor win by hard road for honor s sake. and of instant and unquestioning devotion to the regiment the regiment that claim the life of all and life forever. 
more than once too he come officially into contact with the regimental color which look like the line of a bricklayer s hat on the end of a chew stick. bobby do not kneel and worship them because british subaltern be not construct in that manner. indeed he condemn them for their weight at the very moment that they be fill with awe and other more noble sentiment. 
but best of all be the occasion when he move with the tail twister in review order at the break of a november day. allow for duty men and sick the regiment be one thousand and eighty strong and bobby belong to them. for be he not a subaltern of the line the whole line and nothing but the line a the tramp of two thousand one hundred and sixty sturdy ammunition boot attest. he would not have change place with deighton of the horse battery whirl by in a pillar of cloud to a chorus of strong right. strong leave. or hogan yale of the white hussar lead his squadron for all it be worth with the price of horseshoe throw in. or tick boileau try to live up to his fierce blue and gold turban while the wasp of the bengal cavalry stretch to a gallop in the wake of the long lollopping walers of the white hussar. 
they fight through the clear cool day and bobby felt a little thrill run down his spine when he hear the tinkle tinkle tinkle of the empty cartridge case hop from the breech block after the roar of the volley. for he know that he should live to hear that sound in action. the review end in a glorious chase across the plain battery thunder after cavalry to the huge disgust of the white hussar and the tyneside tail twister hunt a sikh regiment till the lean lathy singhs pant with exhaustion. bobby be dusty and drip long before noon but his enthusiasm be merely focus not diminish. 
he return to sit at the foot of revere his skipper that be to say the captain of his company and to be instruct in the dark art and mystery of manage men which be a very large part of the profession of arm. 
if you haven t a taste that way say revere between his puff of his cheroot. you ll never he able to get the hang of it but remember bobby tisn t the best drill though drill be nearly everything that haul a regiment through hell and out on the other side. it s the man who know how to handle men goat men swine men dog men and so on. 
dormer for instance say bobby. i think he come under the head of fool men. he mope like a sick owl. 
that s where you make your mistake my son. dormer isn t a fool yet but he s a dash dirty soldier and his room corporal make fun of his sock before kit inspection. dormer be two third pure brute go into a corner and growl. 
how do you know. say bobby admiringly. 
because a company commander ha to know these thing because if he doe not know he may have crime ay murder brew under his very nose and yet not see that it s there. dormer be be badger out of his mind big a he be and he hasn t intellect enough to resent it. he s take to quiet booze and bobby when the butt of a room go on the drink or take to mop by himself measure be necessary to pull him out of himself. 
what measure. man can t run round coddle his men forever. 
no. the men would precious soon show him that he be not want. you ve get to here the color sergeant enter with some paper. bobby reflect for a while a revere look through the company form. 
doe dormer do anything sergeant. bobby ask with the air of one continue an interrupt conversation. 
no sir. doe be dooty like a hortomato say the sergeant wbo delight in long word. a dirty soldier and e s under full stoppage for new kit. it s cover with scale sir. 
scale. what scale. 
fish scale sir. e s always pokin in the mud by the river an a cleanin them muchly fish with be thumb. revere be still absorb in the company paper and the sergeant who be sternly fond of bobby continue e generally go down there when e s get be skinful beggin your pardon sir an they do say that the more lush in he briated e be the more fish e catch. they call im the looney fish monger in the comp ny sir. 
revere sign the last paper and the sergeant retreat. 
it s a filthy amusement sigh bobby to himself. then aloud to revere. be you really worry about dormer. 
a little. you see he s never mad enough to send to a hospital or drink enough to run in but at any minute he may flare up brood and sulk a he doe. he resent any interest be show in him and the only time i take him out shoot he all but shoot me by accident. 
i fish say bobby with a wry face. i hire a country boat and go down the river from thursday to sunday and the amiable dormer go with me if you can spare u both. 
you blaze young fool. say revere but his heart be full of much more pleasant word. 
bobby the captain of a dhoni with private dormer for mate drop down the river on thursday morning the private at the bow the subaltern at the helm. the private glare uneasily at the subaltern who respect the reserve of the private. 
after six hour dormer pace to the stern salute and say beg y pardon sir but be you ever on the durh m canal. 
no say bobby wick. come and have some tiffin. 
they eat in silence. a the even fell private dormer break forth speak to himself hi be on the durh m canal jes such a night come next week twelve month a trailin of my toe in the water. he smoke and say no more till bedtime. 
the witchery of the dawn turn the grey river reach to purple gold and opal. and it be a though the lumber dhoni creep across the splendor of a new heaven. 
private dormer pop his head out of his blanket and gaze at the glory below and around. 
well damn my eye. say private dormer in an awe whisper. this ere be like a bloomin gallantry show. for the rest of the day he be dumb but achieve an ensanguined filthiness through the clean of big fish. 
the boat return on saturday even. dormer have be struggle with speech since noon. a the line and luggage be be disembark he find tongue. 
beg y pardon~ sir he say but would you would you min shakin ands with me sir. 
of course not say bobby and he shake accordingly. dormer return to barrack and bobby to mess. 
he want a little quiet and some fish i think say bobby. my aunt but he s a filthy sort of animal. have you ever see him clean them muchly fish with be thumb. 
anyhow say revere three week late he s do his best to keep his thing clean. 
when the spring die bobby join in the general scramble for hill leave and to his surprise and delight secure three month. 
a good a boy a i want say revere the admire skipper. 
the best of the batch say the adjutant to the colonel. keep back that young skrim shanker porkiss sir and let revere make him sit up. 
so bobby depart joyously to simla pahar with a tin box of gorgeous raiment. 
son of wick old wick of chota buldana. ask him to dinner dear say the age men. 
what a nice boy. say the matron and the maid. 
first class place simla. oh ri ippmg. say bobby wick and order new white cord breech on the strength of it. 
we re in a have way write revere to bobby at the end of two month. since you leave the regiment ha take to fever and be fairly rotten with it two hundred in hospital about a hundred in cell drink to keep off fever and the company on parade fifteen file strong at the outside. there s rather more sickness in the out village than i care for hut then i m so blister with prickly heat that i m ready to hang myself. what s the yarn about your mash a miss haverley up there. not serious i hope. you re over young to hang millstone round your neck and the colonel will turf you out of that in double quick time if you attempt it. 
it be not the colonel that bring bobby out of simla but a much more to be respect commandant. the sick ness in the out village spread the bazar be put out of bound and then come the news that the tail twister must go into camp. the message flash to the hill station. cholera leave stop officer recall. ala for the white glove in the neatly solder box the ride and the dance and picnic that be to he the love half speak and the debt unpaid. without demur and without question fast a tongue could fly or pony gallop hack to their regiment and their battery a though they be hasten to their wedding flee the subaltern. 
bobby receive his order on return from a dance at viceregal lodge where he have but only the haverley girl know what bobby have say or how many waltz he have claim for the next ball. six in the morning saw bobby at the tonga office in the drench rain the whirl of the last waltz still in his ear and an intoxication due neither to wine nor waltz in his brain. 
good man. shout deighton of the horse battery through the mist. whar you raise dat tonga. i m come with you. ow. but i ve have a head and a half. i didn t sit out all night. they say the battery s awful bad and he hum dolorously leave the what at the what s it name leave the flock without shelter leave the corpse uninterred leave the bride at the altar. 
my faith. it ll be more bally corpse than bride though this journey. jump in bobby. get on coachman. 
on the umballa platform wait a detachment of officer discuss the late news from the stricken cantonment and it be here that bobby learn the real condition of the tail twister. 
they go into camp say an elderly major recall from the whist table at mussoorie to a sickly native regiment they go into camp with two hundred and ten sick in cart. two hundred and ten fever case only and the balance look like so many ghost with sore eye. a madras regiment could have walk through em. 
but they be a fit a be damn when i leave them. say bobby. 
then you d good make them a fit a be damn when you rejoin say the major brutally. 
bobby press his forehead against the rain splash windowpane a the train lumber across the sodden doab and pray for the health of the tyneside tail twister. naini tal have send down her contingent with all speed. the lather pony of the dalhousie road stagger into pathankot tax to the full stretch of their strength. while from cloudy darjiling the calcutta mail whirl up the last straggler of the little army that be to fight a fight in which be neither medal nor honor for the win against an enemy none other than the sickness that destroyeth in the noonday. 
and a each man report himself he say. this be a bad business and go about his own forthwith for every regiment and battery in the cantonment be under canvas the sickness bear them company. 
bobby fight his way through the rain to the tail twister temporary mess and revere could have fall on the boy s neck for the joy of see that ugly wholesome phiz once more. 
keep em amuse and interest say revere. they go on the drink poor fool after the first two case and there be no improvement. oh it s good to have you back bobby. porkiss be a never mind. 
deighton come over from the artillery camp to attend a dreary mess dinner and contribute to the general gloom by nearly weep over the condition of his beloved battery. porkiss so far forget himself a to insinuate that the presence of the officer could do no earthly good and that the best thing would be to send the entire regiment into hospital and let the doctor look after them. porkiss be demoralize with fear nor be his peace of mind restore when revere say coldly. oh. the sooner you go out the good if that s your way of think. any public school could send u fifty good men in your place but it take time time porkiss and money and a certain amount of trouble to make a regiment. s pose you re the person we go into camp for eh. 
whereupon porkiss be overtake with a great and chilly fear which a drench in the rain do not allay and two day late quit this world for another where men do fondly hope allowance be make for the weakness of the flesh. the regimental sergeant major look wearily across the sergeant mess tent when the news be announce. 
there go the bad of them he say. it ll take the best and then please god it ll stop. the sergeant be silent till one say. it couldn t be him. and all know of whom travis be think. 
bobby wick storm through the tent of his company rally rebuke mildly a be consistent with the regulation chaff the faint hearted. hale the sound into the watery sunlight when there be a break in the weather and bid them be of good cheer for their trouble be nearly at an end. scuttle on his dun pony round the outskirt of the camp and head back men who with the innate perversity of british soldier s be always wander into infect village or drink deeply from rain flood marsh. comfort the panic stricken with rude speech and more than once tend the die who have no friend the men without towny. organize with banjo and burn cork sing song which should allow the talent of the regiment full play. and generally a he explain play the giddy garden goat all round. 
you re worth half a dozen of u bobby say revere in a moment of enthusiasm. how the devil do you keep it up. 
bobby make no answer but have revere look into the breast pocket of his coat he might have see there a sheaf of badly write letter which perhaps account for the power that possess the boy. a letter come to bobby every other day. the spell be not above reproach but the sentiment must have be most satisfactory for on receipt bobby s eye soften marvelously and he be wont to fall into a tender abstraction for a while ere shake his crop head he charge into his work. 
by what power he draw after him the heart of the rough and the tail twister count in their rank some rough diamond indeed be a mystery to both skipper and c. o. who learn from the regimental chaplain that bobby be considerably more in request in the hospital tent than the reverend john emery. 
the men seem fond of you. be you in the hospital much. say the colonel who do his daily round and order the men to get well with a hardness that do not cover his bitter grief. 
a little sir say bobby. 
shouldn t go there too often if i be you. they say it s not contagious but there s no use in run unnecessary risk. we can t afford to have you down y know. 
six day late it be with the utmost difficulty that the post runner plash his way out to the camp with mailbag for the rain be fall in torrent. bobby receive a letter bore it off to his tent and the programme for the next week s sing song be satisfactorily dispose of sit down to answer it. for an hour the unhandy pen toil over the paper and where sentiment rise to more than normal tide level bobby wick stick out his tongue and breathe heavily. he be not use to letter write. 
beg y pardon sir say a voice at the tent door. but dormer s orrid bad sir an they ve take him orf sir. 
damn private dormer and you too. say bobby wick run the blotter over the half finish letter. tell him i ll come in the morning. 
e s awful bad sir say the voice hesitatingly. there be an undecided squelch of heavy boot. 
well. say bobby impatiently. 
excusin imself before an for takin the liberty e say it would be a comfort for to assist im sir if. 
tattoo lao. get my pony. here come in out of the rain till i m ready. what blast nuisance you be. that s brandy. drink some. you want it. hang on to my stirrup and tell me if i go mo fast. 
strengthen by a four finger nip which he swallow without a wink the hospital orderly keep up with the slip mud stain and very disgust pony a it shamble to the hospital tent. 
private dormer be certainly orrid bad. he have all but reach the stage of collapse and be not pleasant to look upon. 
what s this dormer. say bobby bend over the man. you re not go out this time. you ve get to come fishin with me once or twice more yet. 
the blue lip part and in the ghost of a whisper say beg y pardon sir disturbin of you now but would you min oldin my and sir. 
bobby sit on the side of the bed and the icy cold hand close on his own like a vice force a lady s ring which be on the little finger deep into the flesh. bobby set his lip and wait the water drip from the hem of his trouser. an hour pass and the grasp of the hand do not relax nor do the expression on the draw face change. bobby with infinite craft light himself a cheroot with the leave hand his right arm be numb to the elbow and resign himself to a night of pain. 
dawn show a very white face subaltern sit on the side of a sick man s cot and a doctor in the doorway use language unfit for publication. 
have you be here all night you young as. say the doctor. 
there or thereabouts say bobby ruefully. he s freeze on to me. 
dormer s mouth shut with a click. he turn his head and sigh. the cling band open and bobby s arm fell useless at his side. 
he ll do say the doctor quietly. it must have be a toss up all through the night. think you re to be congratulate on this case. 
oh bosh. say bobby. i think the man have go out long ago only only i didn t care to take my hand away. rub my arm down there s a good chap. what a grip the brute ha. i m chill to the marrow. he pass out of the tent shiver. 
private dormer be allow to celebrate his repulse of death by strong water. four day late he sit on the side of his cot and say to the patient mildly. i d a liken to a speak to im so i should. 
but at that time bobby be read yet another letter he have the most persistent correspondent of any man in camp and be even then about to write that the sickness have abate and in another week at the outside would be go. he do not intend to say that the chill of a sick man s hand seem to have strike into the heart whose capacity for affection he dwell on at such length. he do intend to enclose the illustrate programme of the forthcoming sing song whereof he be not a little proud. he also intend to write on many other matter which do not concern u and doubtless would have do so but for the slight feverish headache which make him dull and unresponsive at mess. 
you be overdo it bobby say his skipper. might give the rest of u credit of do a little work. you go on a if you be the whole mess roll into one. take it easy. 
i will say bobby. i m feel do up somehow. revere look at him anxiously and say nothing. 
there be a flicker of lantern ab ut the camp that night and a rumor that bring men out of their cot to the tent door a paddle of the naked foot of doolie bearer and the rush of a gallop horse. 
wot s up. ask twenty tent. and through twenty tent run the answer wick e s down. 
they bring the news to revere and he groan. any one but bobby and i shouldn t have care. the sergeant major be right. 
not go out this journey gasp bobby a he be lift from the doolie. not go out this journey. then with an air of supreme conviction i can t you see. 
not if i can do anything. say the surgeon major who have hasten over from the mess where he have be din. 
he and the regimental surgeon fight together with death for the life of bobby wick. their work be interrupt by a hairy apparition in a blue grey dress gown who star in horror at the bed and cry oh my gawd. it can t be im. until an indignant hospital orderly whisk him away. 
if care of man and desire to live could have do aught bobby would have be save. a it be he make a fight of three day and the surgeon major s brow uncreased. we ll save him yet he say. and the surgeon who though he rank with the captain have a very youthful heart go out upon the word and prance joyously in the mud. 
not go out this journey whisper bobby wick gallantly at the end of the third day. 
bravo. say the surgeon major. that s the way to look at it bobby. 
a even fell a grey shade gather round bobby s mouth and he turn his face to the tent wall wearily. the surgeon major frown. 
i m awfully tire say bobby very faintly. what s the use of bother me with medicine. i don t want it. let me alone. 
the desire for life have depart and bobby be content to drift away on the easy tide of death. 
it s no good say the surgeon major. he doesn t want to live. he s meet it poor child. and he blow his nose. 
half a mile away the regimental band be play the overture to the sing song for the men have be tell that bobby be out of danger. the clash of the brass and the wail of the horn reach bobby s ear. 
be there a single joy or pain that i should never kno ow. you do not love me ti in vain bid me goodbye and go. 
an expression of hopeless irritation cross the boy s face and he try to shake his head. 
the surgeon major bend down what be it. bobby. 
not that waltz mutter bobby. that s our own our very own own. mummy dear. 
with this he sink into the stupor that give place to death early next morning. 
revere his eye red at the rim and his nose very white go into bobby s tent to write a letter to papa wick which should bow the white head of the ex commissioner of chota buldana in the keen sorrow of his life. bobby s little store of paper lay in confusion on the table and among them a half finish letter. the last sentence run. so you see darling there be really no fear because a long a i know you care for me and i care for you nothing can touch me. 
revere stay in the tent for an hour. when he come out his eye be red than ever. * * * * * *. 
private conklin sit on a turn down bucket and listen to a not unfamiliar tune. private conklin be a convalescent and should have be tenderly treat. 
ho. say private conklin. there s another bloomin orf cer dead. 
the bucket shoot from under him and his eye fill with a smithyful of spark. a tall man in a blue grey bedgown be regard him with deep disfavor. 
you ought to take shame for yourself conky. orf cer. bloomin orf cer. i ll learn you to misname the like of im. hangel. bloomin hangel. that s wot e be. 
and the hospital orderly be so satisfy with the justice of the punishment that he do not even order private dormer back to his cot. * * * * *. 
in the matter of a private. 
hurrah. hurrah. a soldier s life for me. shout boy shout. for it make you jolly and free. the ramrod corp. 
people who have see say that one of the quaint spectacle of human frailty be an outbreak of hysteric in a girl school. it start without warn generally on a hot afternoon among the elder pupil. a girl giggle till the giggle get beyond control. then she throw up her head and cry honk honk honk like a wild goose and tear mix with the laughter. if the mistress be wise she will rap out something severe at this point to check matter. if she be tender hearted and send for a drink of water the chance be largely in favor of another girl laugh at the afflict one and herself collapse. thus the trouble spread and may end in half of what answer to the low sixth of a boy school rock and whoop together. give a week of warm weather two stately promenade per diem a heavy mutton and rice meal in the middle of the day a certain amount of nag from the teacher and a few other thing some amaze effect develop. at least this be what folk say who have have experience. 
now the mother superior of a convent and the colonel of a british infantry regiment would be justly shock at any comparison be make between their respective charge. but it be a fact that under certain circumstance thomas in bulk can be work up into dither ripple hysteria. he doe not weep but he show his trouble unmistakably and the consequence get into the newspaper and all the good people who hardly know a martini from a snide say. take away the brute s ammunition. 
thomas isn t a brute and his business which be to look after the virtuous people demand that he shall have his ammunition to his hand. he doesn t wear silk stocking and he really ought to be supply with a new adjective to help him to express his opinion. but for all that he be a great man. if you call him the heroic defender of the national honor one day and a brutal and licentious soldiery the next you naturally bewilder him and he look upon you with suspicion. there be nobody to speak for thomas except people who have theory to work off on him. and nobody understand thomas except thomas and he doe not always know what be the matter with himself. 
that be the prologue. this be the story. 
corporal slane be engage to be marry to miss jhansi m kenna whose history be well know in the regiment and elsewhere. he have his colonel s permission and be popular with the men every arrangement have be make to give the wed what private ortheris call eeklar. it fell in the heart of the hot weather and after the wed slane be go up to the hill with the bride. none the le slane s grievance be that the affair would he only a hire carriage wed and he felt that the eeklar of that be meagre. miss m kenna do not care so much. the sergeant s wife be help her to make her wed dress and she be very busy. slane be just then the only moderately content man in barrack. all the rest be more or le miserable. 
and they have so much to make them happy too. all their work be over at eight in the morning and for the rest of the day they could lie on their back and smoke canteen plug and swear at the punkah cooly. they enjoy a fine full flesh meal in the middle of the day and then throw themselves down on their cot and sweat and sleep till it be cool enough to go out with their towny whose vocabulary contain le than six hundred word and the adjective and whose view on every conceivable question they have hear many time before. 
there be the canteen of course and there be the temperance room with the second hand paper in it. but a man of any profession cannot read for eight hour a day in a temperature of degree or degree in the shade run up sometimes to degree at midnight. very few men even though they get a pannikin of flat stale muddy beer and hide it under their cot can continue drink for six hour a day. one man try but he die and nearly the whole regiment go to his funeral because it give them something to do. it be too early for the excitement of fever or cholera. the men could only wait and wait and wait and watch the shadow of the barrack creep across the blind white dust. that be a gay life. 
they lounge about cantonment it be too hot for any sort of game and almost too hot for vice and fuddle themselves in the even and fill themselves to distension with the healthy nitrogenous food provide for them and the more they stoke the le exercise they take and more explosive they grow. then temper begin to wear away and men fell a brood over insult real or imaginary for they have nothing else to think of. the tone of the repartee change and instead of say light heartedly. i ll knock your silly face in men grow laboriously polite and hint that the cantonment be not big enough for themselves and their enemy and that there would he more space for one of the two in another place. 
it may have be the devil who arrange the thing but the fact of the case be that losson have for a long time be worry simmons in an aimless way. it give him occupation. the two have their cot side by side and would sometimes spend a long afternoon swear at each other. but simmons be afraid of losson and dare not challenge him to a fight. he think over the word in the hot still night and half the hate he felt toward losson be vent on the wretched punkah coolie. 
losson buy a parrot in the bazar and put it into a little cage and lower the cage into the cool darkness of a well and sit on the well curb shout bad language down to the parrot. he teach it to say. simmons ye so oor which mean swine and several other thing entirely unfit for publication. he be a big gross man and he shake like a jelly when the parrot have the sentence correctly. simmons however shake with rage for all the room be laugh at him the parrot be such a disreputable puff of green feather and it look so human when it chatter. losson use to sit swing his fat leg on the side of the cot and ask the parrot what it think of simmons. the parrot would answer. simmons ye so oor. good boy losson use to say scratch the parrot s head. ye ear that sim. 
and simmons use to turn over on his stomach and make answer. i ear. take eed you don t ear something one of these day. 
in the restless night after he have be asleep all day fit of blind rage come upon simmons and hold him till he tremble all over while he think in how many different way he would slay losson. sometimes he would picture himself trample the life out of the man with heavy ammunition boot and at others smash in his face with the butt and at others jump on his shoulder and drag the head back till the neckbone crack. then his mouth would feel hot and fevered and he would reach out for another sup of the beer in the pannikin. 
but the fancy that come to him most frequently and stay with him long be one connect with the great roll of fat under losson s right ear. he notice it first on a moonlight night and thereafter it be always before his eye. it be a fascinate roll of fat. a man could get his hand upon it and tear away one side of the neck. or he could place the muzzle of a rifle on it and blow away all the head in a flash. losson have no right to be sleek and content and well to do when he simmons be the butt of the room some day perhaps he would show those who laugh at the simmons ye so oor joke that he be a good a the rest and hold a man s life in the crook of his forefinger. when losson snore simmons hat him more bitterly than ever. why should losson be able to sleep when simmons have to stay awake hour after hour toss and turn on the tape with the dull liver pain gnaw into his right side and his head throb and ache after canteen. he think over this for many night and the world become unprofitable to him. he even blunt his naturally fine appetite with beer and tobacco. and all the while the parrot talk at and make a mock of him. 
the heat continue and the temper wear away more quickly than before. a sergeant s wife die of heat apoplexy in the night and the rumor run abroad that it be cholera. men rejoice openly hop that it would spread and send them into camp. but that be a false alarm. 
it be late on a tuesday even and the men be wait in the deep double veranda for last post when simmons go to the box at the foot of his bed take out his pipe and slam the lid down with a bang that echo through the desert barrack like the crack of a rifle. ordinarily speak the men would have take no notice. but their nerve be fret to fiddle string. they jump up and three or four clatter into the barrack room only to find simmons kneel by his box. 
owl it s you be it. they say and laugh foolishly. we t h o u g h t twas simmons rise slowly. if the accident have so shake his fellow what would not the reality do. 
you think it be do you. and what make you think. he say lash himself into madness a he go on. to hell with your think ye dirty spy. 
simmons ye so oor chuckle the parrot in the veranda sleepily recognize a well know voice. now that be absolutely all. 
the tension snap. simmons fell back on the arm rack deliberately the men be at the far end of the room and take out his rifle and packet of ammunition. don t go play the goat sim. say losson. put it down but there be a quaver in his voice. another man stoop slip his boot and hurl it at simmons s head. the prompt answer be a shoot which fire at random find it billet in losson s throat. losson fell forward without a word and the others scatter. 
you think it be. yell simmons. you re drivin me to it. i tell you you re drivin me to it. get up losson an don t lie shammin there you an your blast parrit that druv me to it. 
but there be an unaffected reality about losson s pose that show simmons what he have do. the men be still clamor n the veranda. simmons appropriate two more packet of ammunition and run into the moonlight mutter. i ll make a night of it. thirty roun s an the last for myself. take you that you dog. 
he drop on one knee and fire into the brown of the men on the veranda but the bullet fly high and land in the brickwork with a vicious phat that make some of the young one turn pale. it be a musketry theorist observe one thing to fire and another to be fire at. 
then the instinct of the chase flare up. the news spread from barrack to barrack and the men double out intent on the capture of simmons the wild beast who be head for the cavalry parade grind stop now and again to send back a shoot and a curse in the direction of his pursuer. 
i ll learn you to spy on me. he shout. i ll learn you to give me dorg s name. come on the ole lot o you. colonel john anthony deever c. b. he turn toward the infantry mess and shake his rifle you think yourself the devil of a man but i tell you that if you put your ugly old carcass outside o that door i ll make you the poor lookin man in the army. come out colonel john anthony deever c. b. come out and see me practiss on the rainge. i m the crack shoot of the ole bloomin battalion. in proof of which statement simmons fire at the light window of the mess house. 
private simmons e comp ny on the cavalry p rade grind sir with thirty round say a sergeant breathlessly to the colonel. shootin right and lef sir. shoot private losson. what s to be do sir. 
colonel john anthony deever c. b. sallied out only to be salute by s spurt of dust at his foot. 
pull up. say the second in command. i don t want my step in that way colonel. he s a dangerous a a mad dog. 
shoot him like one then say the colonel bitterly if he win t take his chance my regiment too. if it have be the towhead i could have under stand. 
private simmons have occupy a strong position near a well on the edge of the parade grind and be defy the regiment to come on. the regiment be not anxious to comply for there be small honor in be shoot by a fellow private. only corporal slane rifle in band throw himself down on the grind and worm his way toward the well. 
don t shoot say he to the men round him. like a not you ll hit me. i ll catch the beggar livin. 
simmons cease shout for a while and the noise of trap wheel could be hear across the plain. major oldyn command the horse battery be come back from a dinner in the civil line. be drive after his usual custom that be to say a fast a the horse could go. 
a orf cer. a bloom spangle orf cer shriek simmons. i ll make a scarecrow of that orf cer. the trap stop. 
what s this. demand the major of gunner. you there drop your rifle. 
why it s jerry blaze. i ain t get no quarrel with you jerry blaze. pas frien an all s well. 
but jerry blaze have not the faint intention of pass a dangerous murderer. he be a his adore battery swear long and fervently without knowledge of fear and they be surely the best judge for jerry blaze it be notorious have do his possible to kill a man each time the battery go out. 
he walk toward simmons with the intention of rush him and knock him down. 
don t make me do it sir say simmons. i ain t get nothing agin you. ah. you would. the major break into a run take that then. 
the major drop with a bullet through his shoulder and simmons stand over him. he have lose the satisfaction of kill losson in the desire way. hut here be a helpless body to his hand. should be slip in another cartridge and blow off the head or with the butt smash in the white face. he stop to consider and a cry go up from the far side of the parade grind. he s kill jerry blaze. but in the shelter of the well pillar simmons be safe except when he step out to fire. i ll blow yer andsome ead off jerry blaze say simmons reflectively. six an three be nine an one be ten an that leaf me another nineteen an one for myself. he tug at the string of the second packet of ammunition. corporal slane crawl out of the shadow of a bank into the moonlight. 
i see you. say simmons. come a bite furder on an i ll do for you. 
i m comm say corporal slane briefly. you ve do a bad day s work sim. come out ere an come back with me. 
come to laugh simmons send a cartridge home with his thumb. not before i ve settle you an jerry blaze. 
the corporal be lie at full length in the dust of the parade grind a rifle under him. some of the le cautious men in the distance shout. shoot im. shoot im slane. 
you move and or foot slane say simmons an i ll kick jerry blaze ead in and shoot you after. 
i ain t movin say the corporal raise his head. you daren t it a man on be leg. let go o jerry blaze an come out o that with your fistes. come an it me. you daren t you bloomin dog shooter. 
i dare. 
you lie you man sticker. you sneakin sheeny butch you lie. see there. slane kick the rifle away and stand up in the peril of his life. come on now. 
the temptation be more than simmons could resist for the corporal in his white clothe offer a perfect mark. 
don t misname me shout simmons fire a he speak. the shoot miss and the shooter blind with rage throw his rifle down and rush at slane from the protection of the well. within strike distance he kick savagely at slane s stomach but the weedy corporal know something of simmons s weakness and know too the deadly guard for that kick. bow forward and draw up his right leg till the heel of the right foot be set some three inch above the inside of the leave knee cap he meet the blow stand on one leg exactly a gond stand when they meditate and ready for the fall that would follow. there be an oath the corporal fell over his own leave a shinbone meet shinbone and the private collapse his right leg break an inch above the ankle. 
pity you don t know that guard sim say slane spit out the dust a he rise. then raise his voice come an take him orf. i ve bruk be leg. this be not strictly true for the private have accomplish his own downfall since it be the special merit of that leg guard that the hard the kick the great the kicker s discomfiture. 
slane walk to jerry blaze and hang over him with ostentatious anxiety while simmons weep with pain be carry away. ope you ain t urt badly sir say slane. the major have faint and there be an ugly rag hole through the top of his arm. slane kneel down and murmur. s elp me i believe e s dead. well if that ain t my bloom luck all over. 
but the major be destine to lead his battery afield for many a long day with unshaken nerve. he be remove and nurse and pet into convalescence while the battery discuss the wisdom of capture simmons and blow him from a gun. they idolize their major and his reappearance on parade bring about a scene nowhere provide for in the army regulation. 
great too be the glory that fell to slane s share. the gunner would have make him drink thrice a day for at least a fortnight. even the colonel of his own regiment compliment him upon his coolness and the local paper call him a hero. these thing do not puff him up. when the major offer him money and thank the virtuous corporal take the one and put aside the other. but he have a request to make and preface it with many a beg y pardon sir. could the major see his way to let the slane m kenna wed be adorn by the presence of four battery horse to pull a hire barouche. the major could and so could the battery. excessively so. it be a gorgeous wed. * * * * * *. 
wot do i do it for. say corporal slane. for the or course. jhansi ain t a beauty to look at but i wasn t goin to ave a hire turn out. jerry blaze. if i adn t a want something sim might ha blow jerry blaze bloom ead into hirish stew for aught i d a care. 
and they hang private simmons hang him a high a haman in hollow square of the regiment. and the colonel say it be drink. and the chaplain be sure it be the devil. and simmons fancy it be both but he didn t know and only hop his fate would be a warn to his companion. and half a dozen intelligent publicist write six beautiful lead article on the prevalence of crime in the army. 
but not a soul think of compare the bloody mind simmons to the squawk gap schoolgirl with which this story open. 
the enlightenment of pagett m. p. 
because half a dozen grasshopper under a fern make the field ring with their importunate chink while thousand of great cattle repose beneath the shadow of the british oak chew the cud and be silent pray do not imagine that those who make the noise be the only inhabitant of the field that of course they be many in number or that after all they be other than the little shrivel meagre hop though loud and troublesome insect of the hour. burke. reflection on the revolution in france. 
they be sit in the veranda of the splendid palace of an indian pro consul. surround by all the glory and mystery of the immemorial east. in plain english it be a one storied ten room whitewash mud roof bungalow set in a dry garden of dusty tamarisk tree and divide from the road by a low mud wall. the green parrot scream overhead a they fly in battalion to the river for their morning drink. beyond the wall cloud of fine dust show where the cattle and goat of the city be pass afield to graze. the remorseless white light of the winter sunshine of northern india lay upon everything and improve nothing from the whine persian wheel by the lawn tennis court to the long perspective of level road and the blue domed tomb of mohammedan saint just visible above the tree. 
a happy new year say orde to his guest. it s the first you ve ever spend out of england isn t it. 
yes. happy new year say pagett smile at the sunshine. what a divine climate you have here. just think of the brown cold fog hang over london now. and he rub his hand. 
it be more than twenty year since he have last see orde his schoolmate and their path in the world have divide early. the one have quit college to become a cog wheel in the machinery of the great indian government. the other more bless with good have be whirl into a similar position in the english scheme. three successive election have not affect pagett s position with a loyal constituency and he have grow insensibly to regard himself in some sort a a pillar of the empire whose real worth would be know late on. after a few year of conscientious attendance at many division after newspaper battle innumerable and the publication of interminable correspondence and more hasty oratory than in his calm moment he care to think upon it occur to him a it have occur to many of his fellow in parliament that a tour to india would enable him to sweep a large lyre and address himself to the problem of imperial administration with a firm hand. accept therefore a general invitation extend to him by orde some year before pagett bad take ship to karachi and only overnight have be receive with joy by the deputy commissioner of amara. they have sit late discuss the change and chance of twenty year recall the name of the dead and weigh the future of the live a be the custom of men meet after interval of action. 
next morning they smoke the after breakfast pipe in the veranda still regard each other curiously pagett in a light grey frock coat and garment much too thin for the time of the year and a puggried sun hat carefully and wonderfully make orde in a shoot coat rid breech brown cowhide boot with spur and a batter flax helmet. he have ride some mile in the early morning to inspect a doubtful river dam. the men s face differ a much a their attire. orde s wear and wrinkle around the eye and grizzle at the temple be the hard and more square of the two and it be with something like envy that the owner look at the comfortable outline of pagett s blandly receptive countenance the clear skin the untroubled eye and the mobile clean shave lip. 
and this be india. say pagett for the twentieth time star long and intently at the grey feather of the tamarisk. 
one portion of india only. it s very much like this for mile in every direction. by the way now that you have rest a little i wouldn t ask the old question before what d you think of the country. 
ti the most pervasive country that ever yet be see. i acquire several pound of your country come up from karachi. the air be heavy with it and for mile and mile along that distressful eternity of rail there s no horizon to show where air and earth separate. 
yes. it isn t easy to see truly or far in india. but you have a decent passage out hadn t you. 
very good on the whole. your anglo indian may be unsympathetic about one s political view. but he ha reduce ship life to a science. 
the anglo indian be a political orphan and if he s wise he win t be in a hurry to be adopt by your party grandmother. but how be your companion unsympathetic. 
well there be a man call dawlishe a judge somewhere in this country it seem and a capital partner at whist by the way and when i want to talk to him about the progress of india in a political sense. orde hide a grin which might or might not have be sympathetic. the national congress movement and other thing in which a a member of parliament i m of course interest he shift the subject and when i once corner him he look me calmly in the eye and say. that s all tommy rot. come and have a game at bull. you may laugh. but that isn t the way to treat a great and important question. and know who i be well i think it rather rude don t you know. and yet dawlishe be a thoroughly good fellow. 
yes. he s a friend of mine and one of the straight men i know. i suppose like many anglo indian he felt it be hopeless to give you any just idea of any indian question without the document before you and in this case the document you want be the country and the people. 
precisely. that be why i come straight to you bring an open mind to bear on thing. i m anxious to know what popular feel in india be really like y know now that it ha waken into political life. the national congress in spite of dawlishe must have cause great excitement among the mass. 
on the contrary nothing could be more tranquil than the state of popular feel. and a to excitement the people would a soon be excite over the rule of three a over the congress. 
excuse me orde but do you think you be a fair judge. isn t the official anglo indian naturally jealous of any external influence that might move the mass and so much oppose to liberal idea truly liberal idea that he can scarcely be expect to regard a popular movement with fairness. 
what do dawlishe say about tommy rot. think a moment old man. you and i be bring up together. teach by the same tutor read the same book live the same life and new language and work among new race. while you more fortunate remain at home. why should i change my mind our mind because i change my sky. why should i and the few hundred englishman in my service become unreasonable prejudice fossil while you and your new friend alone remain bright and open mind. you surely don t fancy civilian be member of a primrose league. 
of course not but the mere position of an english official give him a point of view which cannot but bias his mind on this question. pagett move his knee up and down a little uneasily a he speak. 
that sound plausible enough but like more plausible notion on indian matter i believe it s a mistake. you ll find when you come to consult the unofficial briton that our fault a a class i speak of the civilian now be rather to magnify the progress that ha be make toward liberal institution. it be of english origin such a it be and the stress of our work since the mutiny only thirty year ago ha be in that direction. no i think you will get no fair or more dispassionate view of the congress business than such men a i can give you. but i may a well say at once that those who know most of india from the inside be incline to wonder at the noise our scarcely begin experiment make in england. 
but surely the gather together of congress delegate be of itself a new thing. 
there s nothing new under the sun when europe be a jungle half asia flock to the canonical conference of buddhism. and for century the people have gather at pun hurdwar trimbak and benares in immense number. a great meet what you call a mass meet be really one of the old and most popular of indian institution in this topsy turvy land and though they have be employ in clerical work for generation they have no practical knowledge of affair. a ship s clerk be a useful person but he be scarcely the captain. and an orderly room writer however smart he may be be not the colonel. you see the writer class in india ha never till now aspire to anything like command. it wasn t allow to. the indian gentleman for thousand of year past ha resemble victor hugo s noble. 
un vrai sire chatelain laisse ecrire le vilain. sa main digne quand il signe egratigne le velin. 
and the little egratignures he most like to make have be score pretty deeply by the sword. 
but this be childish and mediaeval nonsense. 
precisely. and from your or rather our point of view the pen be mighty than the sword. in this country it s otherwise. the fault lie in our indian balance not yet adjust to civilize weight and measure. 
well at all event this literary class represent the natural aspiration and wish of the people at large though it may not exactly lead them and in spite of all you say orde i defy you to find a really sound english radical who would not sympathize with those aspiration. 
pagett speak with some warmth and he have scarcely cease when a well appoint dog cart turn into the compound gate and orde rise say. here be edward the master of the lodge i neglect so diligently come to talk about account i suppose. 
a the vehicle drive up under the porch pagett also rise say with the train effusion bear of much practice. but this be also my friend my old and value friend edward. i m delight to see you. i know you be in india but not exactly where. 
then it isn t account mr. edward say orde cheerily. 
why no sir. i hear mr. pagett be come and a our work be close for the new year i think i would drive over and see him. 
a very happy think. mr. edward you may not know orde be a lead member of our radical club at switchton when i be begin political life and i owe much to his exertion. there s no pleasure like meet an old friend except perhaps make a new one. i suppose mr. edward you stick to the good old cause. 
well you see sir thing be different out here. there s precious little one can find to say against the government which be the main of our talk at home and them that do say thing be not the sort o people a man who respect himself would like to be mix up with. there be no politics in a manner of speak in india. it s all work. 
surely you be mistake my good friend. why i have come all the way from england just to see the work of this great national movement. 
i don t know where you re go to find the nation a move to begin with and then you ll be hard put to it to find what they be move about. it s like this sir say edward who have not quite relish be call my good friend. they haven t get any grievance nothing to hit with don t you see sir. and then there s not much to hit against because the government be more like a kind of general providence direct an old establish state of thing than that at home where there s something new throw down for u to fight about every three month. 
you be probably in your workshop full of english mechanic out of the way of learn what the mass think. 
i don t know so much about that. there be four of u english foreman and between seven and eight hundred native fitter smith carpenter painter and such like. 
and they be full of the congress of course. 
never hear a word of it from year s end to year s end and i speak the talk too. but i want to ask how thing be go on at home old tyler and brown and the rest. 
we will speak of them presently but your account of the indifference of your men surprise me almost a much a your own. i fear you be a backslider from the good old doctrine edward. pagett speak a one who mourn the death of a near relative. 
not a bite sir but i should be if i take up with a parcel of baboo pleader and schoolboy a never do a day s work in their life and couldn t if they try. and if you be to poll u english railway men mechanic tradespeople and the like of that all up and down the country from peshawur to calcutta you would find u mostly in a tale together. and yet you d know we re the same english you pay some respect to at home at lection time and we have the pull o know something about it. 
this be very curious but you will let me come and see you and perhaps you will kindly show me the railway work and we will talk thing over at leisure. and about all old friend and old time add pagett detect with quick insight a look of disappointment in the mechanic s face. 
nod briefly to orde edward mount his dog cart and drive off. 
it s very disappoint say the member to orde who while his friend discourse with edward have be look over a bundle of sketch draw on grey paper in purple ink bring to him by a chuprassee. 
don t let it trouble you old chap say orde sympathetically. look here a moment here be some sketch by the man who make the carve wood screen you admire so much in the din room and want a copy of and the artist himself be here too. 
a native. say pagett. 
of course be the reply bishen singh be his name and he ha two brother to help him. when there be an important job to do the three go into partnership but they spend most of their time and all their money in litigation over an inheritance and i m afraid they be get involve thoroughbred sikh of the old rock obstinate touchy bigoted and cunning but good men for all that. here be bishen singh shall we ask him about the congress. 
but bishen singh who approach with a respectful salaam have never hear of it and he listen with a puzzle face and obviously feign interest to orde s account of it aim and object finally shake his vast white turban with great significance when he learn that it be promote by certain pleader name by orde and by educate native. he begin with labor respect to explain how he be a poor man with no concern in such matter which be all under the control of god but presently break out of urdu into familiar punjabi the mere sound of which have a rustic smack of village smoke reek and plough tail a he denounce the wearer of white coat the juggler with word who filch his field from him the men whose back be never bow in honest work. and pour ironical scorn on the bengali. he and one of his brother have see calcutta and be at work there have bengali carpenter give to them a assistant. 
those carpenter. say bishen singh. black ape be more efficient workmate and a for the bengali babu tchick. the guttural click need no interpretation but orde translate the rest while pagett gaze with interest at the wood carver. 
he seem to have a most illiberal prejudice against the bengali say the m. p. 
yes it s very sad that for age outside bengal there should he so bitter a prejudice. pride of race which also mean race hatred be the plague and curse of india and it spread far orde point with his rid whip to the large map of india on the veranda wall. 
see. i begin with the north say he. there s the afghan and a a highland he despise all the dweller in hindoostan with the exception of the sikh whom he hate a cordially a the sikh hate him. the hindu loathe sikh and afghan and the rajput that s a little low down across this yellow blot of desert ha a strong objection to put it mildly to the maratha who by the way poisonously hate the afghan. let s go north a minute. the sindhi hate everybody i ve mention. very good we ll take le warlike race. the cultivator of northern india domineer over the man in the next province and the behari of the northwest ridicule the bengali. they be all at one on that point. i m give you merely the rough possible outline of the fact of course. 
bishen singh his clean cut nostril still quiver watch the large sweep of the whip a it travel from the frontier through sindh the punjab and rajputana till it rest by the valley of the jumna. 
hate eternal and inextinguishable hate conclude orde flick the lash of the whip across the large map from east to west a he sit down. remember can s advice to lord granville never write or speak of indian thing without look at a map. 
pagett open his eye orde resume. and the race hatred be only a part of it. what s really the matter with bishen singh be class hatred which unfortunately be even more intense and more widely spread. that s one of the little drawback of caste which some of your recent english writer find an impeccable system. 
the wood carver be glad to be recall to the business of his craft and his eye shine a he receive instruction for a carve wooden doorway for pagett which he promise should be splendidly execute and despatch to england in six month. it be an irrelevant detail but in spite of orde s reminder fourteen month elapse before the work be finish. business over bishen singh hang about reluctant to take his leave and at last join his hand and approach orde with bat breath and whisper humbleness say he have a petition to make. orde s face suddenly lose all trace of expression. speak on bishen singh say he and the carver in a whine tone explain that his case against his brother be fix for hear before a native judge and here he drop his voice still low till he be summarily stop by orde who sternly point to the gate with an emphatic begone. 
bishen singh show but little sign of discomposure salaam respectfully to the friend and depart. 
pagett look inquiry. orde with complete recovery of his usual urbanity reply. it s nothing only the old story he want his case to be try by an english judge they all do that but when he begin to hint that the other side be in improper relation with the native judge i have to shut him up. gunga ram the man he want to make insinuation about may not be very bright. but he s a honest a daylight on the bench. but that s just what one can t get a native to believe. 
do you really mean to say these people prefer to have their case try by english judge. 
why certainly. 
pagett draw a long breath. i didn t know that before. at this point a phaeton enter the compound and orde rise with confound it there s old rasul ali khan come to pay one of his tiresome duty call. i m afraid we shall never get through our little congress discussion. 
pagett be an almost silent spectator of the grave formality of a visit pay by a punctilious old mahommedan gentleman to an indian official. and be much impress by the distinction of manner and fine appearance of the mohammedan landholder. when the exchange of polite banality come to a pause he express a wish to learn the courtly visitor s opinion of the national congress. 
orde reluctantly interpret and with a smile which even mohammedan politeness could not save from bitter scorn rasul ali khan intimate that he know nothing about it and care still le. it be a kind of talk encourage by the government for some mysterious purpose of it own and for his own part he wonder and hold his peace. 
pagett be far from satisfy with this and wish to have the old gentleman s opinion on the propriety of manage all indian affair on the basis of an elective system. 
orde do his best to explain but it be plain the visitor be bore and bewilder. frankly he didn t think much of committee. they have a municipal committee at lahore and have elect a menial servant an orderly a a member. he have be inform of this on good authority and after that committee have cease to interest him. but all be accord to the rule of government and please god it be all for the best. 
what an old fossil it be. cry pagett a orde return from see his guest to the door. just like some old blue blood hidalgo of spain. what doe he really think of the congress after all and of the elective system. 
hate it all like poison. when you be sure of a majority election be a fine system. but you can scarcely expect the mahommedans the most masterful and powerful minority in the country to contemplate their own extinction with joy. the bad of it be that he and his co religionist who be many and the land proprietor also of hindu race be frighten and put out by this election business and by the importance we have bestow on lawyer pleader writer and the like who have up to now be in abject submission to them. they say little but after all they be the most important fagot in the great bundle of community and all the glib bunkum in the world would not pay for their estrangement. they have control the land. 
but i be assure that experience of local self government in your municipality ha be most satisfactory and when once the principle be accept in your centre don t you know it be bind to spread and these important ah people of yours would learn it like the rest. i see no difficulty at all and the smooth lip close with the complacent snap habitual to pagett m. p. the man of cheerful yesterday and confident tomorrow. 
orde look at him with a dreary smile. 
the privilege of election ha be most reluctantly withdraw from score of municipality others have have to be summarily suppress and outside the presidency town the actual work do ha be badly perform. this be of le moment perhaps it only send up the local death rate than the fact that the public interest in municipal election never very strong ha wan and be wan in spite of careful nurse on the part of government servant. 
can you explain this lack of interest. say pagett put aside the rest of orde s remark. 
you may find a ward of the key in the fact that only one in every thousand of our population can spell. then they be infinitely more interest in religion and caste question than in any sort of politics. when the business of mere existence be over their mind be occupy by a series of interest pleasure ritual superstition and the like base on century of tradition and usage. you perhaps find it hard to conceive of people absolutely devoid of curiosity to whom the book the daily paper and the print speech be unknown and you would describe their life a blank. that s a profound mistake. you be in another land another century down on the bed rock of society where the family merely and not the community be all important. the average oriental cannot be bring to look beyond his clan. his life too be more complete and self suffice and le sordid and low thoughted than you might imagine. it be bovine and slow in some respect but it be never empty. you and i be incline to put the cart before the horse and to forget that it be the man that be elemental not the book. the corn and the cattle be all my care and the rest be the will of god. why should such folk look up from their immemorially appoint round of duty and interest to meddle with the unknown and fuss with vote paper. how would you atop of all your interest care to conduct even one tenth of your life accord to the manner and custom of the papuan let s say. that s what it come to. 
but if they win t take the trouble to vote why do you anticipate that mohammedan proprietor and the rest would be crush by majority of them. 
again pagett disregard the close sentence. 
because though the landholder would not move a finger on any purely political question they could be raise in dangerous excitement by religious hatred. already the first note of this ha be sound by the people who be try to get up an agitation on the cow kill question and every year there be trouble over the mohammedan muharrum procession. 
but who look after the popular right be thus unrepresented. 
the government of her majesty the queen empress of india in which if the congress promoter be to be believe the people have an implicit trust. for the congress circular specially prepare for rustic comprehension say the movement be for the remission of tax the advancement of hindustan and the strengthen of the british government. this paper be head in large letter may the prosperity of the empire of india endure. 
really. say pagett that show some cleverness. but there be thing good worth imitation in our english method of er political statement than this sort of amiable fraud. 
anyhow resume orde you perceive that not a word be say about election and the elective principle and the reticence of the congress promoter here show they be wise in their generation. 
but the elective principle must triumph in the end and the little difficulty you seem to anticipate would give way on the introduction of a well balance scheme capable of indefinite extension. 
but be it possible to devise a scheme which always assume that the people take any interest in it without enormous expense ruinous dislocation of the administration and danger to the public peace can satisfy the aspiration of mr. hume and his follow and yet safeguard the interest of the mahommedans the land and wealthy class the conservative hindu the eurasian parsee sikh rajput native christian domicile european and others who be each important and powerful in their way. 
pagett s attention however be divert to the gate where a group of cultivator stand in apparent hesitation. 
here be the twelve apostle hy jove come straight out of raffaele s cartoon say the m. p. with the fresh appreciation of a newcomer. 
orde loth to be interrupt turn impatiently toward the villager and their leader hand his long staff to one of his companion advance to the house. 
it be old jelbo the lumherdar or head man of pind sharkot and a very intelligent man for a villager. 
the jat farmer have remove his shoe and stand smile on the edge of the veranda. his strongly mark feature glow with russet bronze and his bright eye gleam under deeply set brow contract by lifelong exposure to sunshine. his beard and moustache streak with grey sweep from bold cliff of brow and cheek in the large sweep one see draw by michael angelo and strand of long black hair mingle with the irregularly pile wreath and fold of his turban. the drapery of stout blue cotton cloth throw over his broad shoulder and gird round his narrow loin hang from his tall form in broadly sculpture fold and he would have make a superb model for an artist in search of a patriarch. 
orde greet him cordially and after a polite pause the countryman start off with a long story tell with impressive earnestness. orde listen and smile interrupt the speaker at time to argue and reason with him in a tone which pagett could hear be kindly and finally check the flux of word be about to dismiss him when pagett suggest that he should be ask about the national congress. 
but jelbo have never hear of it. he be a poor man and such thing by the favor of his honor do not concern him. 
what s the matter with your big friend that he be so terribly in earnest. ask pagett when he have leave. 
nothing much. he want the blood of the people in the next village who have have smallpox and cattle plague pretty badly and by the help of a wizard a currier and several pig have pass it on to his own village. want to know if they can t be run in for this awful crime. it seem they make a dreadful charivari at the village boundary throw a quantity of spell bear object over the border a buffalo s skull and other thing. then brand a chamur what you would call a currier on his hind part and drive him and a number of pig over into jelbo s village. jelbo say he can bring evidence to prove that the wizard direct these proceeding who be a sansi ha be guilty of theft arson cattle kill perjury and murder but would prefer to have him punish for bewitch them and inflict smallpox. 
and how on earth do you answer such a lunatic. 
lunatic. the old fellow be a sane a you or i. and he ha some grind of complaint against those sansis. i ask if he would like a native superintendent of police with some men to make inquiry but he object on the ground the police be rather bad than smallpox and criminal tribe put together. 
criminal tribe er i don t quite understand say pagett. 
we have in india many tribe of people who in the slack anti british day become robber in various kind and prey on the people. they be be restrain and reclaim little by little and in time will become useful citizen but they still cherish hereditary tradition of crime and be a difficult lot to deal with. by the way what about the political right of these folk under your scheme. the country people call them vermin but i suppose they would be elector with the rest. 
nonsense special provision would be make for them in a well consider electoral scheme and they would doubtless be treat with fit severity say pagett with a magisterial air. 
severity yes but whether it would be fit be doubtful. even those poor devil have right and after all they only practice what they have be teach. 
but criminal orde. 
yes criminal with code and ritual of crime god and godlings of crime and a hundred song and saying in praise of it. puzzle isn t it. 
it s simply dreadful. they ought to be put down at once. be there many of them. 
not more than about sixty thousand in this province for many of the tribe broadly describe a criminal be really vagabond and criminal only on occasion while others be be settle and reclaim. they be of great antiquity a legacy from the past the golden glorious aryan past of max muller birdwood and the rest of your spindrift philosopher. 
an orderly bring a card to orde who take it with a movement of irritation at the interruption and band it to pagett. a large card with a rule border in red ink and in the centre in schoolboy copper plate mr. dma nath. give salaam say the civilian and there enter in haste a slender youth clothe in a closely fit coat of grey homespun tight trouser patent leather shoe and a small black velvet cap. his thin cheek twitch and his eye wander restlessly for the young man be evidently nervous and uncomfortable though strive to assume a free and easy air. 
your honor may perhaps remember me he say in english and orde scan him keenly. 
i know your face somehow. you belong to the shershah district i think when i be in charge there. 
yes sir my father be writer at shershah and your honor give me a prize when i be first in the middle school examination five year ago. since then i have prosecute my study and i be now second year s student in the mission college. 
of course. you be kedar nath s son the boy who say he like geography good than play or sugar cake and i didn t believe you. how be your father get on. 
he be well and he send his salaam but his circumstance be depress and he also be down on his luck. 
you learn english idiom at the mission college it seem. 
yes sir they be the best idiom and my father order me to ask your honor to say a word for him to the present incumbent of your honor s shoe the latchet of which he be not worthy to open and who know not joseph. for thing be different at shershah now and my father want promotion. 
your father be a good man and i will do what i can for him. 
at this point a telegram be hand to orde who after glance at it say he must leave his young friend whom he introduce to pagett a member of the english house of common who wish to learn about india. 
orde have scarcely retire with his telegram when pagett begin. 
perhaps you can tell me something of the national congress movement. 
sir it be the great movement of modern time and one in which all educate men like u must join. all our student be for the congress. 
except i suppose mahommedans and the christian. say pagett quick to use his recent instruction. 
these be some mere exception to the universal rule. 
but the people outside the college the work class the agriculturist. your father and mother for instance. 
my mother say the young man with a visible effort to bring himself to pronounce the word ha no idea and my father be not agriculturist nor work class. he be of the kayeth caste. but he have not the advantage of a collegiate education and he doe not know much of the congress. it be a movement for the educate young man connect adjective and noun in a sort of vocal hyphen. 
ah yes say pagett feel he be a little off the rail and what be the benefit you expect to gain by it. 
oh sir everything. england owe it greatness to parliamentary institution and we should at once gain the same high position in scale of nation. sir we wish to have the science the art the manufacture the industrial factory with steam engine and other motive power and public meeting and debate. already we have a debate club in connection with the college and elect a mr. speaker. sir the progress must come. you also be a member of parliament and worship the great lord ripon say the youth breathlessly and his black eye flash a he finish his commaless sentence. 
well say pagett drily it ha not yet occur to me to worship his lordship although i believe he be a very worthy man and i be not sure that england owe quite all the thing you name to the house of common. you see my young friend the growth of a nation like ours be slow subject to many influence and if you have read your history aright. 
sir. i know it all all. norman conquest magna charta runnymede reformation tudor stuart mr. milton and mr. burke and i have read something of mr. herbert spencer and gibbon s decline and fall reynolds mystery of the court and. 
pagett felt like one who have pull the string of a shower bath unawares and hasten to stop the torrent with a question a to what particular grievance of the people of india the attention of an elect assembly should be first direct. but young mr. dma nath be slow to particularize. there be many very many demand consideration. mr. pagett would like to hear of one or two typical example. the repeal of the arm act be at last name and the student learn for the first time that a license be necessary before an englishman could carry a gun in england. then native of india ought to be allow to become volunteer rifleman if they choose and the absolute equality of the oriental with his european fellow subject in civil status should be proclaim on principle and the indian army should be considerably reduce. the student be not however prepare with answer to mr. pagett s mild question on these point and he return to vague generality leave the m. p. so much impress with the crudity of his view that he be glad on orde s return to say goodbye to his very interest young friend. 
what do you think of young india. ask orde. 
curious very curious and callow. 
and yet the civilian reply one can scarcely help sympathize with him for his mere youth s sake. the young orator of the oxford union arrive at the same conclusion and show doubtless just the same enthusiasm. if there be any political analogy between india and england if the thousand race of this empire be one if there be any chance even of their learn to speak one language if in short india be a utopia of the debate room and not a real land this kind of talk might be worth listen to but it be all base on false analogy and ignorance of the fact. 
but he be a native and know the fact. 
he be a sort of english schoolboy but marry three year and the father of two weakling and know le than most english schoolboy. you saw all he be and know and such idea a he ha acquire be directly hostile to the most cherish conviction of the vast majority of the people. 
but what doe he mean by say he be a student of a mission college. be he a christian. 
he mean just what he say and he be not a christian nor ever will he be. good people in america scotland and england most of whom would never dream of collegiate education for their own son be pinch themselves to bestow it in pure waste on indian youth. their scheme be an oblique subterranean attack on heathenism. the theory be that with the jam of secular education lead to a university degree the pill of moral or religious instruction may he coax down the heathen gullet. 
but doe it succeed. do they make convert. 
they make no convert for the subtle oriental swallow the jam and reject the pill. but the mere example of the sober righteous and godly life of the principal and professor who be most excellent and devote men must have a certain moral value. yet a lord lansdowne point out the other day the market be dangerously overstock with graduate of our university who look for employment in the administration. an immense number be employ but year by year the college mill grind out increase list of youth foredoom to failure and disappointment and meanwhile trade manufacture and the industrial art be neglect and in fact regard with contempt by our new literary mandarin in posse. 
but our young friend say he want steam engine and factory say pagett. 
yes he would like to direct such concern. he want to begin at the top for manual labor be hold to be discreditable and he would never defile his hand by the apprenticeship which the architect engineer and manufacturer of england cheerfully undergo. and he would be aghast to learn that the lead name of industrial enterprise in england belong a generation or two since or now belong to men who work with their own hand. and though he talk glibly of manufacturer he refuse to see that the indian manufacturer of the future will be the despise workman of the present. it be propose for example a few week ago that a certain municipality in this province should establish an elementary technical school for the son of workman. the stress of the opposition to the plan come from a pleader who owe all he have to a college education bestow on him gratis by government and mission. you would have fancy some fine old crust tory squire of the last generation be speak. these people he say want no education for they learn their trade from their father and to teach a workman s son the element of mathematics and physical science would give him idea above his business. they must be keep in their place and it be idle to imagine that there be any science in wood or iron work. and he carry his point. but the indian workman will rise in the social scale in spite of the new literary caste. 
in england we have scarcely begin to realize that there be an industrial class in this country yet i suppose the example of men like edward for instance must tell say pagett thoughtfully. 
that you shouldn t know much about it be natural enough for there be but few source of information. india in this a in other respect be like a badly keep ledger not write up to date. and men like edward be in reality missionary who by precept and example be teach more lesson than they know. only a few however of their crowd of subordinate seem to care to try to emulate them and aim at individual advancement. the rest drop into the ancient indian caste groove. 
how do you mean. ask pagett. 
well it be find that the new railway and factory workman the fit the smith the engine driver and the rest be already form separate hereditary caste. you may notice this down at jamalpur in bengal one of the old railway centre. and at other place and in other industry they be follow the same inexorable indian law. 
which mean. query pagett. 
it mean that the root habit of the people be to gather in small self contain self suffice family group with no think or care for any interest but their own a habit which be scarcely compatible with the right acceptation of the elective principle. 
yet you must admit orde that though our young friend be not able to expound the faith that be in him your indian army be too big. 
not nearly big enough for it main purpose. and a a side issue there be certain powerful minority of fight folk whose interest an asiatic government be bind to consider. arm be a much a mean of livelihood a civil employ under government and law. and it would be a heavy strain on british bayonet to hold down sikh jat bilochis rohillas rajput bhils dogras pathan and gurkha to abide by the decision of a numerical majority oppose to their interest. leave the numerical majority to itself without the british bayonet a flock of sheep might a reasonably hope to manage a troop of collie. 
this complaint about excessive growth of the army be akin to another contention of the congress party. they protest against the malversation of the whole of the money raise by additional tax a a famine insurance fund to other purpose. you must be aware that this special famine fund ha all be spend on frontier road and defence and strategic railway scheme a a protection against russia. 
but there be never a special famine fund raise by special taxation and put by a in a box. no sane administrator would dream of such a thing. in a time of prosperity a finance minister rejoice in a margin propose to annually apply a million and a half to the construction of railway and canal for the protection of district liable to scarcity and to the reduction of the annual loan for public work. but time be not always prosperous and the finance minister have to choose whether be would bang up the insurance scheme for a year or impose fresh taxation. when a farmer hasn t get the little surplus he hop to have for buy a new wagon and drain a low lie field corner you don t accuse him of malversation if he spend what he ha on the necessary work of the rest of his farm. 
a clatter of hoof be hear and orde look up with vexation but his brow clear a a horseman halt under the porch. 
hello orde. just look in to ask if you be come to polo on tuesday. we want you badly to help to crumple up the krab bokhar team. 
orde explain that he have to go out into the district and while the visitor complain that though good men wouldn t play duffer be always keen and that his side would probably be beat pagett rise to look at his mount a red lather biloch mare with a curious lyrelike incurving of the ear. quite a little thoroughbred in all other respect say the m. p. and orde present mr. reginald burke manager of the siad and sialkote bank to his friend. 
yes she s a good a they make em and she s all the female i posse and spoil in consequence aren t you old girl. say burke pat the mare s glossy neck a she back and plunge. 
mr. pagett say orde ha be ask me about the congress. what be your opinion. burke turn to the m. p. with a frank smile. 
well if it s all the same to you sir i should say damn the congress but then i m no politician but only a business man. 
you find it a tiresome subject. 
yes it s all that and bad than that for this kind of agitation be anything but wholesome for the country. 
how do you mean. 
it would be a long job to explain and sara here win t stand but you know how sensitive capital be and how timid investor be. all this sort of rot be likely to frighten them and we can t afford to frighten them. the passenger aboard an ocean steamer don t feel reassure when the ship s way be stop and they hear the workman s hammer tinker at the engine down below. the old ark s go on all right a she be and only want quiet and room to move. them s my sentiment and those of some other people who have to do with money and business. 
then you be a thick and thin supporter of the government a it be. 
why no. the indian government be much too timid with it money like an old maiden aunt of mine always in a funk about her investment. they don t spend half enough on railway for instance and they be slow in a general way and ought to be make to sit up in all that concern the encouragement of private enterprise and coax out into use the million of capital that lie dormant in the country. 
the mare be dance with impatience and burke be evidently anxious to be off so the men wish him goodbye. 
who be your genial friend who condemn both congress and government in a breath. ask pagett with an amuse smile. 
just now he be reggie burke keen on polo than on anything else but if you go to the sind and sialkote bank tomorrow you would find mr. reginald burke a very capable man of business know and like by an immense constituency north and south of this. 
do you think he be right about the government s want of enterprise. 
i should hesitate to say. good consult the merchant and chamber of commerce in cawnpore madras bombay and calcutta. but though these body would like a reggie put it to make government sit up it be an elementary consideration in govern a country like india which must be administer for the benefit of the people at large that the counsel of those who resort to it for the sake of make money should be judiciously weigh and not allow to overpower the rest. they be welcome guest here a a matter of course but it ha be find best to restrain their influence. thus the right of plantation laborer factory operative and the like have be protect and the capitalist eager to get on ha not always regard government action with favor. it be quite conceivable that under an elective system the commercial community of the great town might find mean to secure majority on labor question and on financial matter. 
they would act at least with intelligence and consideration. 
intelligence yes. but a to consideration who at the present moment most bitterly resent the tender solicitude of lancashire for the welfare and protection of the indian factory operative. english and native capitalist run cotton mill and factory. 
but be the solicitude of lancashire in this matter entirely disinterested. 
it be no business of mine to say. i merely indicate an example of how a powerful commercial interest might hamper a government intent in the first place on the large interest of humanity. 
orde break off to listen a moment. there s dr. lathrop talk to my wife in the draw room say he. 
surely not. that s a lady s voice and if my ear don t deceive me an american. 
exactly dr. eva mccreery lathrop chief of the new woman s hospital here and a very good fellow forbye. good morning doctor he say a a graceful figure come out on the veranda you seem to be in trouble. i hope mr. orde be able to help you. 
your wife be real kind and good i always come to her when i m in a fix but i fear it s more than comfort i want. 
you work too hard and wear yourself out say orde kindly. let me introduce my friend mr. pagett just fresh from home and anxious to learn his india. you could tell him something of that more important half of which a mere man know so little. 
perhaps i could if i d any heart to do it but i m in trouble i ve lose a case a case that be do well through nothing in the world but inattention on the part of a nurse i have begin to trust. and when i speak only a small piece of my mind she collapse in a whine heap on the floor. it be hopeless. 
the men be silent for the blue eye of the lady doctor be dim. recover herself she look up with a smile half sad half humorous and i be in a whine heap too. but what phase of indian life be you particularly interest in sir. 
mr. pagett intend to study the political aspect of thing and the possibility of bestow electoral institution on the people. 
wouldn t it be a much to the purpose to bestow point lace collar on them. they need many thing more urgently than vote. why it s like give a bread pill for a break leg. 
er i don t quite follow say pagett uneasily. 
well what s the matter with this country be not in the least political but an all round entanglement of physical social and moral evil and corruption all more or le due to the unnatural treatment of woman. you can t gather fig from thistle and so long a the system of infant marriage the prohibition of the remarriage of widow the lifelong imprisonment of wife and mother in a bad than penal confinement and the withhold from them of any kind of education or treatment a rational being continue the country can t advance a step. half of it be morally dead and bad than dead and that s just the half from which we have a right to look for the best impulse. it s right here where the trouble be and not in any political consideration whatsoever. 
but do they marry so early. say pagett vaguely. 
the average age be seven but thousand be marry still early. one result be that girl of twelve and thirteen have to bear the burden of wifehood and motherhood and a might be expect the rate of mortality both for mother and child be terrible. pauperism domestic unhappiness and a low state of health be only a few of the consequence of this. then when a frequently happen the boy husband dy prematurely his widow be condemn to bad than death. she may not remarry must live a seclude and despise life a life so unnatural that she sometimes prefer suicide. more often she go astray. you don t know in england what such word a infant marriage baby wife girl mother and virgin widow mean. but they mean unspeakable horror here. 
well but the advance political party here will surely make it their business to advocate social reform a well a political one say pagett. 
very surely they will do no such thing say the lady doctor emphatically. i wish i could make you understand. why even of the fund devote to the marchioness of dufferin s organization for medical aid to the woman of india it be say in print and in speech that they would be good spend on more college scholarship for men. and in all the advance party talk god forgive them and in all their programme they carefully avoid all such subject. they will talk about the protection of the cow for that s an ancient superstition they can all understand that. but the protection of the woman be a new and dangerous idea. she turn to pagett impulsively. 
you be a member of the english parliament. can you do nothing. the foundation of their life be rotten utterly and bestially rotten. i could tell your wife thing that i couldn t tell you. i know the inner life that belong to the native and i know nothing else. and believe me you might a well try to grow golden rod in a mushroom pit a to make anything of a people that be bear and rear a these these thing re. the men talk of their right and privilege. i have see the woman that bear these very men and again may god forgive the men. 
pagett s eye open with a large wonder. dr. lathrop rise tempestuously. 
i must be off to lecture say she and i m sorry that i can t show you my hospital. but you have good believe sir that it s more necessary for india than all the election in creation. 
that s a woman with a mission and no mistake say pagett after a pause. 
yes. she belief in her work and so do i say orde. i ve a notion that in the end it will be find that the most helpful work do for india in this generation be work by lady dufferin in draw attention what work that be by the way even with her husband s great name to back it to the need of woman here. in effect native habit and belief be an organize conspiracy against the law of health and happy life but there be some dawn of hope now. 
how d you account for the general indifference then. 
i suppose it s due in part to their fatalism and their utter indifference to all human suffer. how much do you imagine the great province of the punjab with over twenty million people and half a score rich town ha contribute to the maintenance of civil dispensary last year. about seven thousand rupee. 
that s seven hundred pound say pagett quickly. 
i wish it be reply orde. but anyway it s an absurdly inadequate sum and show one of the blank side of oriental character. 
pagett be silent for a long time. the question of direct and personal pain do not lie within his research. he prefer to discus the weighty matter of the law and content himself with murmur. they ll do good late on. then with a rush return to his first think. 
but my dear orde if it s merely a class movement of a local and temporary character how d you account for bradlaugh who be at least a man of sense take it up. 
i know nothing of the champion of the new brahmin but what i see in the paper. i suppose there be something tempt in be hail by a large assemblage a the representative of the aspiration of two hundred and fifty million of people. such a man look through all the roar and the wreath and doe not reflect that it be a false perspective which a a matter of fact hide the real complex and manifold india from his gaze. he can scarcely be expect to distinguish between the ambition of a new oligarchy and the real want of the people of whom he know nothing. but it s strange that a profess radical should come to be the choose advocate of a movement which ha for it aim the revival of an ancient tyranny. show how even radicalism can fall into academic groove and miss the essential truth of it own creed. believe me pagett to deal with india you want first hand knowledge and experience. i wish he would come and live here for a couple of year or so. 
be not this rather an ad hominem style of argument. 
can t help it in a case like this. indeed i be not sure you ought not to go further and weigh the whole character and quality and upbringing of the man. you must admit that the monumental complacency with which he trot out his ingenious little constitution for india show a strange want of imagination and the sense of humor. 
no i don t quite admit it say pagett. 
well you know him and i don t but that s how it strike a strange. he turn on his heel and pace the veranda thoughtfully. and after all the burden of the actual daily unromantic toil fall on the shoulder of the men out here and not on his own. he enjoy all the privilege of recommendation without responsibility and we well perhaps when you ve see a little more of india you ll understand. to begin with our death rate s five time high than yours i speak now for the brutal bureaucrat and we work on the refuse of work out city and exhaust civilization among the bone of the dead. in the case of the congress meeting the only notable fact be that the priest of the altar be british not buddhist jain or brahminical and that the whole thing be a british contrivance keep alive by the effort of messrs. hume eardley norton and digby. 
you mean to say then it s not a spontaneous movement. 
what movement be ever spontaneous in any true sense of the word. this seem to be more factitious than usual. you seem to know a great deal about it. try it by the touchstone of subscription a coarse but fairly trustworthy criterion and there be scarcely the color of money in it. the delegate write from england that they be out of pocket for work expense railway fare and stationery the mere pasteboard and scaffold of their show. it be in fact collapse from mere financial inanition. 
but you cannot deny that the people of india who be perhaps too poor to subscribe be mentally and morally move by the agitation pagett insist. 
that be precisely what i do deny. the native side of the movement be the work of a limit class a microscopic minority a lord dufferin describe it when compare with the people proper but still a very interest class see that it be of our own creation. it be compose almost entirely of those of the literary or clerkly caste who have receive an english education. 
surely that s a very important class. it member must be the ordain leader of popular think. 
anywhere else they might be leader but they have no social weight here. 
pagett laugh. that s an epigrammatic way of put it orde. 
be it. let s see say the deputy commissioner of amara stride into the sunshine toward a half naked gardener pot rose. he take the man s hoe and go to a rain scarped bank at the bottom of the garden. 
come here pagett he say and cut at the sun bake soil. after three stroke there roll from under the blade of the hoe the half of a clank skeleton that settle at pagett s foot in an unseemly jumble of bone. the m. p. draw back. 
our house be build on cemetery say orde. there be score of thousand of graf within ten mile. 
pagett be contemplate the skull with the awe fascination of a man who ha but little to do with the dead. india s a very curious place say he after a pause. 
ah. you ll know all about it in three month. come in to lunch say orde. 
volume v plain tale from the hill. 
lispeth. 
look you have cast out love. what god be these you bid me please. the three in one the one in three. not so. to my own god i go. it may be they shall give me great ease than your cold christ and tangle trinity. the convert. 
she be the daughter of sonoo a hill man and jadeh his wife. one year their maize fail and two bear spend the night in their only poppy field just above the sutlej valley on the kotgarh side. so next season they turn christian and bring their baby to the mission to be baptize. the kotgarh chaplain christen her elizabeth and lispeth be the hill or pahari pronunciation. 
late cholera come into the kotgarh valley and carry off sonoo and jadeh and lispeth become half servant half companion to the wife of the then chaplain of kotgarh. this be after the reign of the moravian missionary but before kotgarh have quite forget her title of mistress of the northern hill. 
whether christianity improve lispeth or whether the god of her own people would have do a much for her under any circumstance i do not know. but she grow very lovely. when a hill girl grow lovely she be worth travel fifty mile over bad grind to look upon. lispeth have a greek face one of those face people paint so often and see so seldom. she be of a pale ivory color and for her race extremely tall. also she possess eye that be wonderful. and have she not be dress in the abominable print cloth affect by mission you would meet her on the hill side unexpectedly have think her the original diana of the roman go out to slay. 
lispeth take to christianity readily and do not abandon it when she reach womanhood a do some hill girl. her own people hat her because she have they say become a memsahib and wash herself daily. and the chaplain s wife do not know what to do with her. somehow one cannot ask a stately goddess five foot ten in her shoe to clean plate and dish. so she play with the chaplain s child and take class in the sunday school and read all the book in the house and grow more and more beautiful like the princess in fairy tale. the chaplain s wife say that the girl ought to take service in simla a a nurse or something genteel. but lispeth do not want to take service. she be very happy where she be. 
when traveller there be not many in those year come to kotgarh lispeth use to lock herself into her own room for fear they might take her away to simla or somewhere out into the unknown world. 
one day a few month after she be seventeen year old lispeth go out for a walk. she do not walk in the manner of english lady a mile and a half out and a ride back again. she cover between twenty and thirty mile in her little constitutional all about and about between kotgarh and narkunda. this time she come back at full dusk step down the breakneck descent into kotgarh with something heavy in her arm. the chaplain s wife be doze in the draw room when lispeth come in breathe hard and very exhaust with her burden. lispeth put it down on the sofa and say simply. 
this be my husband. i find him on the bagi road. he ha hurt himself. we will nurse him and when he be well your husband shall marry him to me. 
this be the first mention lispeth have ever make of her matrimonial view and the chaplain s wife shriek with horror. however the man on the sofa need attention first. he be a young englishman and his head have be cut to the bone by something jag. lispeth say she have find him down the khud so she have bring him in. 
he be breathe queerly and be unconscious. 
he be put to bed and tend by the chaplain who know something of medicine. and lispeth wait outside the door in case she could be useful. she explain to the chaplain that this be the man she mean to marry. and the chaplain and his wife lecture her severely on the impropriety of her conduct. lispeth listen quietly and repeat her first proposition. it take a great deal of christianity to wipe out uncivilized eastern instinct such a fall in love at first sight. lispeth have find the man she worship do not see why she should keep silent a to her choice. she have no intention of be send away either. she be go to nurse that englishman until he be well enough to marry her. this be her little programme. 
after a fortnight of slight fever and inflammation the englishman recover coherence and thank the chaplain and his wife and lispeth especially lispeth for their kindness. he be a traveller in the east he say they never talk about globe trotter in those day when the p. & o. fleet be young and small and have come from dehra dun to hunt for plant and butterfly among the simla hill. no one at simla therefore know anything about him. he fancy he must have fall over the cliff while stalk a fern on a rotten tree trunk and that his cooly must have steal his baggage and flee. he think he would go back to simla when he be a little strong. he desire no more mountaineer. 
he make small haste to go away and recover his strength slowly. 
lispeth object to be advise either by the chaplain or his wife. so the latter speak to the englishman and tell him how matter stand in lispeth s heart. he laugh a good deal and say it be very pretty and romantic a perfect idyl of the himalaya. but a he be engage to a girl at home he fancy that nothing would happen. certainly he would behave with discretion. he do that. still he find it very pleasant to talk to lispeth and walk with lispeth and say nice thing to her and call her pet name while he be get strong enough to go away. it mean nothing at all to him and everything in the world to lispeth. she be very happy while the fortnight last because she have find a man to love. 
be a savage by birth she take no trouble to hide her feeling and the englishman be amuse. when he go away lispeth walk with him up the hill a far a narkunda very trouble and very miserable. the chaplain s wife be a good christian and dislike anything in the shape of fuss or scandal lispeth be beyond her management entirely have tell the englishman to tell lispeth that he be come back to marry her. she be but a child you know and i fear at heart a heathen say the chaplain s wife. so all the twelve mile up the hill the englishman with his arm around lispeth s waist be assure the girl that he would come back and marry her. and lispeth make him promise over and over again. she weep on the narkunda ridge till he have pass out of sight along the muttiani path. 
then she dry her tear and go in to kotgarh again and say to the chaplain s wife. he will come back and marry me. he ha go to his own people to tell them so. and the chaplain s wife soothe lispeth and say. he will come back. at the end of two month lispeth grow impatient and be tell that the englishman have go over the sea to england. she know where england be because she have read little geography primer. but of course she have no conception of the nature of the sea be a hill girl. 
there be an old puzzle map of the world in the house. lispeth have play with it when she be a child. she unearth it again and put it together of evening and cry to herself and try to imagine where her englishman be. a she have no idea of distance or steamboat her notion be somewhat erroneous. it would not have make the least difference have she be perfectly correct. for the englishman have no intention of come back to marry a hill girl. he forget all about her by the time he be butterfly hunt in assam. he write a book on the east afterwards. lispeth s name do not appear. 
at the end of three month lispeth make daily pilgrimage to narkunda to see if her englishman be come along the road. it give her comfort and the chaplain s wife find her happy think that she be get over her barbarous and most indelicate folly. a little late the walk cease to help lispeth and her temper grow very bad. the chaplain s wife think this a profitable time to let her know the real state of affair that the englishman have only promise his love to keep her quiet that he have never mean anything and that it be wrong and improper of lispeth to think of marriage with an englishman who be of a superior clay besides be promise in marriage to a girl of his own people. lispeth say that all this be clearly impossible because he have say he love her and the chaplain s wife have with her own lip assert that the englishman be come back. 
how can what he and you say be untrue. ask lispeth. 
we say it a an excuse to keep you quiet child say the chaplain s wife. 
then you have lie to me say lispeth you and he. 
the chaplain s wife bow her head and say nothing. lispeth be silent too for a little time. then she go out down the valley and return in the dress of a hill girl infamously dirty but without the nose and ear ring. she have her hair braid into the long pig tail help out with black thread that hill woman wear. 
i be go back to my own people say she. you have kill lispeth. there be only leave old jadeh s daughter the daughter of a pahari and the servant of tarka devi. you be all liar you english. 
by the time that the chaplain s wife have recover from the shock of the announcement that lispeth have verted to her mother s god the girl have go. and she never come back. 
she take to her own unclean people savagely a if to make up the arrears of the life she have step out of. and in a little time she marry a wood cutter who beat her after the manner of paharis and her beauty fade soon. 
there be no law whereby you can account for the vagary of the heathen say the chaplain s wife and i believe that lispeth be always at heart an infidel. see she have be take into the church of england at the mature age of five week this statement doe not do credit to the chaplain s wife. 
lispeth be a very old woman when she die. she always have a perfect command of english and when she be sufficiently drink could sometimes be induce to tell the story of her first love affair. 
it be hard then to realize that the blear wrinkle creature so like a wisp of char rag could ever have be lispeth of the kotgarh mission. 
three and an extra. 
when halter and heel rope be slip do not give chase with stick but with gram. punjabi proverb. 
after marriage arrive a reaction sometimes a big sometimes a little one. but it come sooner or late and must be tide over by both party if they desire the rest of their life to go with the current. 
in the case of the cusack bremmils this reaction do not set in till the third year after the wed. bremmil be hard to hold at the best of time. but he be a beautiful husband until the baby die and mr. bremmil wear black and grow thin and mourn a if the bottom of the universe have fall out. perhaps bremmil ought to have comfort her. he try to do so i think. but the more he comfort the more mr. bremmil grieve and consequently the more uncomfortable bremmil grow. the fact be that they both need a tonic. and they get it. mr. bremmil can afford to laugh now but it be no laugh matter to her at the time. 
you see mr. hauksbee appear on the horizon. and where she exist be fair chance of trouble. at simla her bye name be the stormy petrel. she have win that title five time to my own certain knowledge. she be a little brown thin almost skinny woman with big roll violet blue eye and the sweet manner in the world. you have only to mention her name at afternoon tea for every woman in the room to rise up and call her well not bless. she be clever witty brilliant and sparkle beyond most of her kind. but possess of many devil of malice and mischievousness. she could be nice though even to her own sex. but that be another story. 
bremmil go off at score after the baby s death and the general discomfort that follow and mr. hauksbee annex him. she take no pleasure in hide her captive. she annex him publicly and saw that the public saw it. he ride with her and walk with her and talk with her and picnic with her and tiffined at peliti s with her till people put up their eyebrow and say. shock. mr. bremmil stay at home turn over the dead baby s frock and cry into the empty cradle. she do not care to do anything else. but some eight dear affectionate lady friend explain the situation at length to her in case she should miss the cream of it. mr. bremmil listen quietly and thank them for their good office. she be not a clever a mr. hauksbee but she be no fool. she keep her own counsel and do not speak to bremmil of what she have hear. this be worth remember. speak to or cry over a husband never do any good yet. 
when bremmil be at home which be not often he be more affectionate than usual. and that show his hand. the affection be force partly to soothe his own conscience and partly to soothe mr. bremmil. it fail in both regard. 
then the a. d. c. in wait be command by their excellency lord and lady lytton to invite mr. and mr. cusack bremmil to peterhoff on july th at. p. m. dance in the bottom leave hand corner. 
i can t go say mr. bremmil it be too soon after poor little florrie but it need not stop you tom. 
she mean what she say then and bremmil say that he would go just to put in an appearance. here he speak the thing which be not. and mr. bremmil know it. she guess a woman s guess be much more accurate than a man s certainty that he have mean to go from the first and with mr. hauksbee. she sit down to think and the outcome of her thought be that the memory of a dead child be worth considerably le than the affection of a live husband. 
she make her plan and stake her all upon it. in that hour she discover that she know tom bremmil thoroughly and this knowledge she act on. 
tom say she i shall be din out at the longmores on the even of the th. you d good dine at the club. 
this save bremmil from make an excuse to get away and dine with mr. hauksbee so he be grateful and felt small and mean at the same time which be wholesome. bremmil leave the house at five for a ride. about half past five in the even a large leather cover basket come in from phelps for mr. bremmil. she be a woman who know how to dress. and she have not spend a week on design that dress and have it gore and hem and herring bone and tuck and ruck. or whatever the term be. for nothing. it be a gorgeous dress slight mourn. i can t describe it but it be what the queen call a creation a thing that hit you straight between the eye and make you gasp. she have not much heart for what she be go to do. but a she glance at the long mirror she have the satisfaction of know that she have never look so well in her life. she be a large blonde and when she choose carry herself superbly. 
after the dinner at the longmores she go on to the dance a little late and encounter bremmil with mr. hauksbee on his arm. 
that make her flush and a the men crowd round her for dance she look magnificent. she fill up all her dance except three and those she leave blank. mr. hauksbee catch her eye once. and she know it be war real war between them. she start handicap in the struggle for she have order bremmil about just the least little bite in the world too much. and he be begin to resent it. moreover he have never see his wife look so lovely. 
he star at her from doorway and glare at her from passage a she go about with her partner. and the more he star the more take be he. he could scarcely believe that this be the woman with the red eye and the black stuff gown who use to weep over the egg at breakfast. 
mr. hauksbee do her best to hold him in play but after two dance he cross over to his wife and ask for a dance. 
i m afraid you ve come too late mister bremmil she say with her eye twinkle. 
then he beg her to give him a dance and a a great favor she allow him the fifth waltz. luckily it stand vacant on his programme. they dance it together and there be a little flutter round the room. bremmil have a sort of notion that his wife could dance but he never know she dance so divinely. at the end of that waltz he ask for another a a favor not a a right. and mr. bremmil say. show me your programme dear. he show it a a naughty little schoolboy hand up contraband sweet to a master. 
there be a fair sprinkle of h on it besides h at supper. 
mr. bremmil say nothing but she smile contemptuously run her pencil through and two h s and return the card with her own name write above a pet name that only she and her husband use. then she shake her finger at him and say laugh. oh you silly silly boy. 
mr. hauksbee hear that and she own a much felt that she have the bad of it. bremmil accept and gratefully. they dance and sit out in one of the little tent. what bremmil say and what mr. bremmil say be no concern of any one s. 
when the band strike up the roast beef of old england the two go out into the verandah and bremmil begin look for his wife s dandy. this be before rickshaw day. while she go into the cloak room. mr. hauksbee come up and say. you take me in to supper i think mr. bremmil. bremmil turn red and look foolish. ah h m. i m go home with my wife mr. hauksbee. i think there ha be a little mistake. be a man he speak a though mr. hauksbee be entirely responsible. 
mr. bremmil come out of the cloak room in a swansdown cloak with a white cloud round her head. she look radiant. and she have a right to. 
the couple go off in the darkness together bremmil rid very close to the dandy. 
then say mr. hauksbee to me she look a trifle fade and jade in the lamplight. take my word for it the silly woman can manage a clever man. but it need a very clever woman to manage a fool. 
then we go in to supper. 
throw away. 
and some be sulky while some will plunge [so ho. steady. stand still you. ] some you must gentle and some you must lunge. [there. there. who want to kill you. ] some there be loss in every trade will break their heart ere bitted and make will fight like fiend a the rope cut hard and die dumb mad in the break yard. toolungala stockyard chorus. 
to rear a boy under what parent call the shelter life system be if the boy must go into the world and fend for himself not wise. unless he be one in a thousand he ha certainly to pas through many unnecessary trouble. and may possibly come to extreme grief simply from ignorance of the proper proportion of thing. 
let a puppy eat the soap in the bath room or chew a newly black boot. he chew and chuckle until by and by he find out that black and old brown windsor make him very sick. so he argue that soap and boot be not wholesome. any old dog about the house will soon show him the unwisdom of bite big dog ear. be young he remember and go abroad at six month a well mannered little beast with a chasten appetite. if he have be keep away from boot and soap and big dog till he come to the trinity full grow and with develop teeth just consider how fearfully sick and thrash he would be. apply that motion to the shelter life and see how it work. it doe not sound pretty but it be the good of two evil. 
there be a boy once who have be bring up under the shelter life theory. and the theory kill him dead. he stay with his people all his day from the hour he be bear till the hour he go into sandhurst nearly at the top of the list. he be beautifully teach in all that win mark by a private tutor and carry the extra weight of never have give his parent an hour s anxiety in his life. what he learn at sandhurst beyond the regular routine be of no great consequence. he look about him and he find soap and black so to speak very good. he eat a little and come out of sandhurst not so high a he go in. 
them there be an interval and a scene with his people who expect much from him. next a year of live unspotted from the world in a third rate depot battalion where all the junior be child and all the senior old woman. and lastly he come out to india where he be cut off from the support of his parent and have no one to fall back on in time of trouble except himself. 
now india be a place beyond all others where one must not take thing too seriously the midday sun always except. too much work and too much energy kill a man just a effectively a too much assort vice or too much drink. flirtation doe not matter because every one be be transfer and either you or she leave the station and never return. good work doe not matter because a man be judge by his bad output and another man take all the credit of his best a a rule. bad work doe not matter because other men do bad and incompetent hang on long in india than anywhere else. amusement do not matter because you must repeat them a soon a you have accomplish them once and most amusement only mean try to win another person s money. 
sickness doe not matter because it s all in the day s work and if you die another man take over your place and your office in the eight hour between death and burial. nothing matter except home furlough and act allowance and these only because they be scarce. this be a slack kutcha country where all men work with imperfect instrument. and the wise thing be to take no one and nothing in earnest but to escape a soon a ever you can to some place where amusement be amusement and a reputation worth the have. 
but this boy the tale be a old a the hill come out and take all thing seriously. he be pretty and be pet. he take the petting seriously and fret over woman not worth saddle a pony to call upon. he find his new free life in india very good. 
it doe look attractive in the begin from a subaltern s point of view all pony partner dance and so on. he taste it a the puppy taste the soap. only he come late to the eat with a grow set of teeth. he have no sense of balance just like the puppy and could not understand why he be not treat with the consideration he receive under his father s roof. this hurt his feeling. 
he quarrel with other boy and be sensitive to the marrow remember these quarrel and they excite him. he find whist and gymkhana and thing of that kind. mean to amuse one after office. good. but he take them seriously too just a he take the head that follow after drink. he lose his money over whist and gymkhana because they be new to him. 
he take his loss seriously and waste a much energy and interest over a two gold mohur race for maiden ekka pony with their mane hog a if it have be the derby. one half of this come from inexperience much a the puppy squabble with the corner of the hearth rug and the other half from the dizziness breed by stumble out of his quiet life into the glare and excitement of a lively one. no one tell him about the soap and the black because an average man take it for grant that an average man be ordinarily careful in regard to them. it be pitiful to watch the boy knock himself to piece a an over handle colt fall down and cut himself when he get away from the groom. 
this unbridle license in amusement not worth the trouble of break line for much le riot over endure for six month all through one cold weather and then we think that the heat and the knowledge of have lose his money and health and lam his horse would sober the boy down and he would stand steady. in ninety nine case out of a hundred this would have happen. you can see the principle work in any indian station. but this particular case fell through because the boy be sensitive and take thing seriously a i may have say some seven time before. of course we couldn t tell how his excess strike him personally. 
they be nothing very heart break or above the average. he might be cripple for life financially and want a little nurse. 
still the memory of his performance would wither away in one hot weather and the shroff would help him to tide over the money trouble. but he must have take another view altogether and have believe himself ruin beyond redemption. his colonel talk to him severely when the cold weather end. that make him more wretched than ever. and it be only an ordinary colonel s wigging. 
what follow be a curious instance of the fashion in which we be all link together and make responsible for one another. the thing that kick the beam in the boy s mind be a remark that a woman make when he be talk to her. there be no use in repeat it for it be only a cruel little sentence rap out before think that make him flush to the root of his hair. he keep himself to himself for three day and then put in for two day leave to go shoot near a canal engineer s rest house about thirty mile out. he get his leave and that night at mess be noisy and more offensive than ever. he say that he be go to shoot big game and leave at half past ten o clock in an ekka. 
partridge which be the only thing a man could get near the rest house be not big game. so every one laugh. 
next morning one of the major come in from short leave and hear that the boy have go out to shoot big game. the major have take an interest in the boy and have more than once try to check him in the cold weather. the major put up his eyebrow when he hear of the expedition and go to the boy s room where he rummage. 
presently he come out and find me leave card on the mess. 
there be no one else in the ante room. 
he say. the boy ha go out shoot. doe a man shoot. 
@tetur with a revolver and a write case. 
i say. nonsense major. for i saw what be in his mind. 
he say. nonsense or nonsense i m go to the canal now at once. i don t feel easy. 
then he think for a minute and say. can you lie. 
you know best i answer. it s my profession. 
very well say the major. you must come out with me now at once in an ekka to the canal to shoot black buck. go and put on shikar kit quick and drive here with a gun. 
the major be a masterful man. and i know that he would not give order for nothing. so i obey and on return find the major pack up in an ekka gun case and food sling below all ready for a shoot trip. 
he dismiss the driver and drive himself. we jog along quietly while in the station. but a soon a we get to the dusty road across the plain he make that pony fly. a country breed can do nearly anything at a pinch. we cover the thirty mile in under three hour but the poor brute be nearly dead. 
once i say. what s the blaze hurry major. 
he say quietly. the boy ha be alone by himself for one two five fourteen hour now. i tell you i don t feel easy. 
this uneasiness spread itself to me and i help to beat the pony. 
when we come to the canal engineer s rest house the major call for the boy s servant. but there be no answer. then we go up to the house call for the boy by name. but there be no answer. 
oh he s out shoot say i. 
just then i saw through one of the window a little hurricane lamp burn. this be at four in the afternoon. we both stop dead in the verandah hold our breath to catch every sound. and we hear inside the room the brr brr brr of a multitude of fly. the major say nothing but he take off his helmet and we enter very softly. 
the boy be dead on the charpoy in the centre of the bare lime wash room. he have shoot his head nearly to piece with his revolver. the gun case be still strap so be the bed and on the table lay the boy s write case with photograph. he have go away to die like a poison rat. 
the major say to himself softly. poor boy. poor poor devil. then he turn away from the bed and say. i want your help in this business. 
know the boy be dead by his own hand i saw exactly what that help would be so i pass over to the table take a chair light a cheroot and begin to go through the write case. the major look over my shoulder and repeat to himself. we come too late. like a rat in a hole. poor poor devil. 
the boy must have spend half the night in write to his people and to his colonel and to a girl at home. and a soon a he have finish must have shoot himself for he have be dead a long time when we come in. 
i read all that he have write and pass over each sheet to the major a i finish it. 
we saw from his account how very seriously he have take everything. he write about disgrace which he be unable to bear indelible shame criminal folly waste life and so on. besides a lot of private thing to his father and mother too much too sacred to put into print. the letter to the girl at home be the most pitiful of all. and i choke a i read it. the major make no attempt to keep dry eye. i respect him for that. he read and rock himself to and fro and simply cry like a woman without care to hide it. the letter be so dreary and hopeless and touch. we forget all about the boy s folly and only think of the poor thing on the charpoy and the scrawl sheet in our hand. it be utterly impossible to let the letter go home. 
they would have break his father s heart and kill his mother after kill her belief in her son. 
at last the major dry his eye openly and say. nice sort of thing to spring on an english family. what shall we do. 
i say know what the major have bring me but for. the boy die of cholera. we be with him at the time. we can t commit ourselves to half measure. come along. 
then begin one of the most grimy comic scene i have ever take part in the concoction of a big write lie bolster with evidence to soothe the boy s people at home. i begin the rough draft of a letter the major throw in hint here and there while he gather up all the stuff that the boy have write and burn it in the fireplace. it be a hot still even when we begin and the lamp burn very badly. in due course i get the draft to my satisfaction set forth how the boy be the pattern of all virtue beloved by his regiment with every promise of a great career before him and so on. how we have help him through the sickness it be no time for little lie you will understand and how he have die without pain. i choke while i be put down these thing and think of the poor people who would read them. 
then i laugh at the grotesqueness of the affair and the laughter mix itself up with the choke and the major say that we both want drink. 
i be afraid to say how much whiskey we drink before the letter be finish. it have not the least effect on u. then we take off the boy s watch locket and ring. 
lastly the major say. we must send a lock of hair too. a woman value that. 
but there be reason why we could not find a lock fit to send. 
the boy be black haired and so be the major luckily. i cut off a piece of the major s hair above the temple with a knife and put it into the packet we be make. the laugh fit and the choke get hold of me again and i have to stop. the major be nearly a bad. and we both know that the bad part of the work be to come. 
we seal up the packet photograph locket seal ring letter and lock of hair with the boy s seal wax and the boy s seal. 
then the major say. for god s sake let s get outside away from the room and think. 
we go outside and walk on the bank of the canal for an hour eat and drink what we have with u until the moon rise. i know now exactly how a murderer feel. finally we force ourselves back to the room with the lamp and the other thing in it and begin to take up the next piece of work. i be not go to write about this. it be too horrible. we burn the bedstead and drop the ash into the canal. we take up the mat of the room and treat that in the same way. i go off to a village and borrow two big hoe i do not want the villager to help while the major arrange the other matter. it take u four hour hard work to make the grave. a we work we argue out whether it be right to say a much a we remember of the burial of the dead. 
we compromise thing by say the lord s prayer with a private unofficial prayer for the peace of the soul of the boy. then we fill in the grave and go into the verandah not the house to lie down to sleep. we be dead tire. 
when we wake the major say wearily. we can t go back till tomorrow. we must give him a decent time to die in. he die early this morning remember. that seem more natural. so the major must have be lie awake all the time think. 
i say. then why didn t we bring the body back to the cantonment. 
the major think for a minute. because the people bolt when they hear of the cholera. and the ekka ha go. 
that be strictly true. we have forget all about the ekka pony and he have go home. 
so we be leave there alone all that stifle day in the canal rest house test and re test our story of the boy s death to see if it be weak at any point. a native turn up in the afternoon but we say that a sahib be dead of cholera and he run away. a the dusk gather the major tell me all his fear about the boy and awful story of suicide or nearly carry out suicide tale that make one s hair crisp. he say that he himself have once go into the same valley of the shadow a the boy when he be young and new to the country. so he understand how thing fight together in the boy s poor jumble head. he also say that youngster in their repentant moment consider their sin much more serious and ineffaceable than they really be. we talk together all through the even and rehearse the story of the death of the boy. a soon a the moon be up and the boy theoretically just bury we strike across country for the station. we walk from eight till six o clock in the morning. but though we be dead tire we do not forget to go to the boy s room and put away his revolver with the proper amount of cartridge in the pouch. also to set his write case on the table. we find the colonel and report the death feel more like murderer than ever. then we go to bed and sleep the clock round. for there be no more in u. 
the tale have credence a long a be necessary for every one forget about the boy before a fortnight be over. many people however find time to say that the major have behave scandalously in not bring in the body for a regimental funeral. the sad thing of all be a letter from the boy s mother to the major and me with big inky blister all over the sheet. she write the sweet possible thing about our great kindness and the obligation she would be under to u a long a she live. 
all thing consider she be under an obligation. but not exactly a she mean. 
miss youghal s sais. 
when man and woman be agree what can the kazi do. mahomedan proverb. 
some people say that there be no romance in india. those people be wrong. our life hold quite a much romance a be good for u. 
sometimes more. 
strickland be in the police and people do not understand him. so they say he be a doubtful sort of man and pass by on the other side. strickland have himself to thank for this. he hold the extraordinary theory that a policeman in india should try to know a much about the native a the native themselves. now in the whole of upper india there be only one man who can pas for hindu or mohammedan chamar or faquir a he plea. he be fear and respect by the native from the ghor kathri to the jamma musjid. and he be suppose to have the gift of invisibility and executive control over many devil. but what good ha this do him with the government. none in the world. he ha never get simla for his charge. and his name be almost unknown to englishman. 
strickland be foolish enough to take that man for his model. and follow out his absurd theory dabble in unsavory place no respectable man would think of explore all among the native riff raff. he educate himself in this peculiar way for seven year and people could not appreciate it. he be perpetually go fantee among the native which of course no man with any sense belief in. he be initiate into the sit bhai at allahabad once when he be on leave. he know the lizard song of the sansis and the halli hukk dance which be a religious can can of a startle kind. when a man know who dance the halli hukk and how and when and where he know something to be proud of. he ha go deep than the skin. but strickland be not proud though he have help once at jagadhri at the paint of the death bull which no englishman must even look upon. have master the thief patter of the changars. have take a eusufzai horse thief alone near attock. and have stand under the mimbar board of a border mosque and conduct service in the manner of a sunni mollah. 
his crown achievement be spend eleven day a a faquir in the garden of baba atal at amritsar and there pick up the thread of the great nasiban murder case. but people say justly enough. why on earth can t strickland sit in his office and write up his diary and recruit and keep quiet instead of show up the incapacity of his senior. so the nasiban murder case do him no good departmentally. but after his first feel of wrath he return to his outlandish custom of pry into native life. by the way when a man once acquire a taste for this particular amusement it abide with him all his day. it be the most fascinate thing in the world. love not except. where other men take ten day to the hill strickland take leave for what he call shikar put on the disguise that appeal to him at the time step down into the brown crowd and be swallow up for a while. he be a quiet dark young fellow spare black eye and when he be not think of something else a very interest companion. strickland on native progress a he have see it be worth hear. native hat strickland. but they be afraid of him. he know too much. 
when the youghals come into the station strickland very gravely a he do everything fell in love with miss youghal. and she after a while fell in love with him because she could not understand him. then strickland tell the parent. but mr. youghal say she be not go to throw her daughter into the bad pay department in the empire and old youghal say in so many word that he mistrust strickland s way and work and would thank him not to speak or write to his daughter any more. very well say strickland for he do not wish to make his lady love s life a burden. after one long talk with miss youghal he drop the business entirely. 
the youghals go up to simla in april. 
in july strickland secure three month leave on urgent private affair. he lock up his house though not a native in the providence would wittingly have touch estreekin sahib s gear for the world and go down to see a friend of his an old dyer at tarn taran. 
here all trace of him be lose until a sais meet me on the simla mall with this extraordinary note. 
dear old man. 
please give bearer a box of cheroot super no. i for preference. they be fresh at the club. i ll repay when i reappear. but at present i m out of society. 
yours. 
e. strickland. 
i order two box and hand them over to the sais with my love. 
that sais be strickland and he be in old youghal s employ attach to miss youghal s arab. the poor fellow be suffer for an english smoke and know that whatever happen i should hold my tongue till the business be over. 
late on mr. youghal who be wrap up in her servant begin talk at house where she call of her paragon among saises the man who be never too busy to get up in the morning and pick flower for the breakfast table and who black actually black the hoof of his horse like a london coachman. the turnout of miss youghal s arab be a wonder and a delight. strickland dulloo i mean find his reward in the pretty thing that miss youghal say to him when she go out rid. her parent be please to find she have forget all her foolishness for young strickland and say she be a good girl. 
strickland vow that the two month of his service be the most rigid mental discipline he ha ever go through. quite apart from the little fact that the wife of one of his fellow saises fell in love with him and then try to poison him with arsenic because he would have nothing to do with her he have to school himself into keep quiet when miss youghal go out rid with some man who try to flirt with her and he be force to trot behind carry the blanket and hear every word. also he have to keep his temper when he be slang in benmore porch by a policeman especially once when he be abuse by a naik he have himself recruit from isser jang village or bad still when a young subaltern call him a pig for not make way quickly enough. 
but the life have it compensation. he obtain great insight into the way and theft of saises enough he say to have summarily convict half the chamar population of the punjab if he have be on business. he become one of the lead player at knuckle bone which all jhampanis and many saises play while they be wait outside the government house or the gaiety theatre of night. he learn to smoke tobacco that be three fourth cowdung. and he hear the wisdom of the grizzle jemadar of the government house saises whose word be valuable. he saw many thing which amuse him. and he state on honor that no man can appreciate simla properly till he ha see it from the sais s point of view. 
he also say that if he choose to write all he saw his head would be break in several place. 
strickland s account of the agony he endure on wet night hear the music and see the light in benmore with his toe tingle for a waltz and his head in a horse blanket be rather amuse. one of these day strickland be go to write a little book on his experience. that book will be worth buy. and even more worth suppress. 
thus he serve faithfully a jacob serve for rachel. and his leave be nearly at an end when the explosion come. he have really do his best to keep his temper in the hear of the flirtation i have mention. but he break down at last. an old and very distinguish general take miss youghal for a ride and begin that specially offensive you re only a little girl sort of flirtation most difficult for a woman to turn aside deftly and most madden to listen to. miss youghal be shake with fear at the thing he say in the hear of her sais. dulloo strickland stand it a long a he could. then he catch hold of the general s bridle and in most fluent english invite him to step off and be heave over the cliff. next minute miss youghal begin cry. and strickland saw that he have hopelessly give himself away and everything be over. 
the general nearly have a fit while miss youghal be sob out the story of the disguise and the engagement that wasn t recognize by the parent. strickland be furiously angry with himself and more angry with the general for force his hand. so he say nothing but hold the horse s head and prepare to thrash the general a some sort of satisfaction but when the general have thoroughly grasp the story and know who strickland be he begin to puff and blow in the saddle and nearly roll off with laugh. he say strickland deserve a v. c. if it be only for put on a sais s blanket. then he call himself name and vow that he deserve a thrash but he be too old to take it from strickland. then he compliment miss youghal on her lover. 
the scandal of the business never strike him. for he be a nice old man with a weakness for flirtation. then he laugh again and say that old youghal be a fool. strickland let go of the cob s head and suggest that the general have good help them if that be his opinion. strickland know youghal s weakness for men with title and letter after their name and high official position. 
it s rather like a forty minute farce say the general but begad i will help if it s only to escape that tremendous thrash i deserve. go along to your home my sais policeman and change into decent kit and i ll attack mr. youghal. miss youghal may i ask you to canter home and wait. 
about seven minute late there be a wild hurroosh at the club. 
a sais with a blanket and head rope be ask all the men he know. for heaven s sake lend me decent clothe. a the men do not recognize him there be some peculiar scene before strickland could get a hot bath with soda in it in one room a shirt here a collar there a pair of trouser elsewhere and so on. he gallop off with half the club wardrobe on his back and an utter strange s pony under him to the house of old youghal. 
the general array in purple and fine linen be before him. 
what the general have say strickland never know but youghal receive strickland with moderate civility. and mr. youghal touch by the devotion of the transform dulloo be almost kind. 
the general beam and chuckle and miss youghal come in and almost before old youghal know where he be the parental consent have be wrench out and strickland have depart with miss youghal to the telegraph office to wire for his kit. the final embarrassment be when an utter strange attack him on the mall and ask for the steal pony. 
so in the end strickland and miss youghal be marry on the strict understand that strickland should drop his old way and stick to departmental routine which pay best and lead to simla. 
strickland be far too fond of his wife just then to break his word but it be a sore trial to him. for the street and the bazar and the sound in them be full of mean to strickland and these call to him to come back and take up his wandering and his discovery. some day i will tell you how he break his promise to help a friend. that be long since and he ha by this time be nearly spoil for what he would call shikar. he be forget the slang and the beggar s cant and the mark and the sign and the drift of the undercurrent which if a man would master he must always continue to learn. 
but he fill in his departmental return beautifully. 
yoke with an unbeliever. 
i be die for you and you be die for another. punjabi proverb. 
when the gravesend tender leave the p. &. steamer for bombay and go back to catch the train to town there be many people in it cry. but the one who weep most and most openly be miss agnes laiter. she have reason to cry because the only man she ever love or ever could love so she say be go out to india. and india a every one know be divide equally between jungle tiger cobra cholera and sepoys. 
phil garron lean over the side of the steamer in the rain felt very unhappy too. but he do not cry. he be send out to tea. what tea mean he have not the vague idea but fancy that he would have to ride on a prance horse over hill cover with tea vine and draw a sumptuous salary for do so. and he be very grateful to his uncle for get him the berth. he be really go to reform all his slack shiftless way save a large proportion of his magnificent salary yearly and in a very short time return to marry agnes laiter. phil garron have be lie loose on his friend hand for three year and a he have nothing to do he naturally fell in love. he be very nice. but he be not strong in his view and opinion and principle and though he never come to actual grief his friend be thankful when he say good bye and go out to this mysterious tea business near darjiling. they say. god bless you dear boy. let u never see your face again or at least that be what phil be give to understand. 
when he sail he be very full of a great plan to prove himself several hundred time good than any one have give him credit for to work like a horse and triumphantly marry agnes laiter. he have many good point besides his good look. his only fault be that he be weak the least little bite in the world weak. he have a much notion of economy a the morning sun. and yet you could not lay your hand on any one item and say. herein phil garron be extravagant or reckless. nor could you point out any particular vice in his character. but he be unsatisfactory and a workable a putty. 
agnes laiter go about her duty at home her family object to the engagement with red eye while phil be sail to darjiling a port on the bengal ocean a his mother use to tell her friend. he be popular enough on board ship make many acquaintance and a moderately large liquor bill and send off huge letter to agnes laiter at each port. then he fell to work on this plantation somewhere between darjiling and kangra and though the salary and the horse and the work be not quite all he have fancy he succeed fairly well and give himself much unnecessary credit for his perseverance. 
in the course of time a he settle more into collar and his work grow fix before him the face of agnes laiter go out of his mind and only come when he be at leisure which be not often. he would forget all about her for a fortnight and remember her with a start like a school boy who ha forget to learn his lesson. 
she do not forget phil because she be of the kind that never forget. only another man a really desirable young man present himself before mr. laiter. and the chance of a marriage with phil be a far off a ever. and his letter be so unsatisfactory. and there be a certain amount of domestic pressure bring to bear on the girl. and the young man really be an eligible person a income go. and the end of all thing be that agnes marry him and write a tempestuous whirlwind of a letter to phil in the wild of darjiling and say she should never know a happy moment all the rest of her life. which be a true prophecy. 
phil get that letter and hold himself ill treat. this be two year after he have come out. but by dint of think fixedly of agnes laiter and look at her photograph and pat himself on the back for be one of the most constant lover in history and warm to the work a he go on he really fancy that he have be very hardly use. he sit down and write one final letter a really pathetic world without end amen epistle. explain how he would be true to eternity and that all woman be very much alike and he would hide his break heart etc. etc. but if at any future time etc. etc. he could afford to wait etc. etc. unchanged affection etc. etc. return to her old love etc. etc. for eight closely write page. from an artistic point of view it be very neat work but an ordinary philistine who know the state of phil s real feeling not the one he rise to a he go on write would have call it the thoroughly mean and selfish work of a thoroughly mean and selfish weak man. but this verdict would have be incorrect. phil pay for the postage and felt every word he have write for at least two day and a half. 
it be the last flicker before the light go out. 
that letter make agnes laiter very unhappy and she cry and put it away in her desk and become mr. somebody else for the good of her family. which be the first duty of every christian maid. 
phil go his way and think no more of his letter except a an artist think of a neatly touch in sketch. his way be not bad but they be not altogether good until they bring him across dunmaya the daughter of a rajput ex subadar major of our native army. the girl have a strain of hill blood in her and like the hill woman be not a purdah nashin. where phil meet her or how he hear of her doe not matter. she be a good girl and handsome and in her way very clever and shrewd. though of course a little hard. it be to be remember that phil be live very comfortably deny himself no small luxury never put by an anna very satisfy with himself and his good intention be drop all his english correspondent one by one and begin more and more to look upon this land a his home. some men fall this way. and they be of no use afterwards. the climate where he be station be good and it really do not seem to him that there be anything to go home for. 
he do what many planter have do before him that be to say he make up his mind to marry a hill girl and settle down. he be seven and twenty then with a long life before him but no spirit to go through with it. so he marry dunmaya by the form of the english church and some fellow planter say he be a fool and some say he be a wise man. dunmaya be a thoroughly honest girl and in spite of her reverence for an englishman have a reasonable estimate of her husband s weakness. she manage him tenderly and become in le than a year a very passable imitation of an english lady in dress and carriage. [it be curious to think that a hill man after a lifetime s education be a hill man still. but a hill woman can in six month master most of the way of her english sister. there be a coolie woman once. but that be another story. ] dunmaya dress by preference in black and yellow and look well. 
meantime the letter lay in agnes s desk and now and again she would think of poor resolute hard work phil among the cobra and tiger of darjiling toil in the vain hope that she might come back to him. her husband be worth ten phils except that he have rheumatism of the heart. three year after he be marry and after he have try nice and algeria for his complaint he go to bombay where he die and set agnes free. be a devout woman she look on his death and the place of it a a direct interposition of providence and when she have recover from the shock she take out and reread phil s letter with the etc. etc. and the big dash and the little dash and kiss it several time. no one know her in bombay. she have her husband s income which be a large one and phil be close at hand. it be wrong and improper of course but she decide a heroine do in novel to find her old lover to offer him her hand and her gold and with him spend the rest of her life in some spot far from unsympathetic soul. she sit for two month alone in watson s hotel elaborate this decision and the picture be a pretty one. then she set out in search of phil garron assistant on a tea plantation with a more than usually unpronounceable name. 
she find him. she spend a month over it for his plantation be not in the darjiling district at all but near kangra. phil be very little alter and dunmaya be very nice to her. 
now the particular sin and shame of the whole business be that phil who really be not worth think of twice be and be love by dunmaya and more than love by agnes the whole of whose life he seem to have spoil. 
bad of all dunmaya be make a decent man of him. and he will be ultimately save from perdition through her train. 
which be manifestly unfair. 
false dawn. 
tonight god know what thing shall tide the earth be rack and faint expectant sleepless open eye. and we who from the earth be make thrill with our mother s pain. in durance. 
no man will ever know the exact truth of this story. though woman may sometimes whisper it to one another after a dance when they be put up their hair for the night and compare list of victim. a man of course cannot assist at these function. so the tale must be tell from the outside in the dark all wrong. 
never praise a sister to a sister in the hope of your compliment reach the proper ear and so prepare the way for you late on. sister be woman first and sister afterwards. and you will find that you do yourself harm. 
saumarez know this when he make up his mind to propose to the elder miss copleigh. saumarez be a strange man with few merit so far a men could see though he be popular with woman and carry enough conceit to stock a viceroy s council and leave a little over for the commander in chief s staff. he be a civilian. very many woman take an interest in saumarez perhaps because his manner to them be offensive. if you hit a pony over the nose at the outset of your acquaintance he may not love you but he will take a deep interest in your movement ever afterwards. the elder miss copleigh be nice plump win and pretty. the young be not so pretty and from men disregard the hint set forth above her style be repellant and unattractive. both girl have practically the same figure and there be a strong liken between them in look and voice. though no one could doubt for an instant which be the nice of the two. 
saumarez make up his mind a soon a they come into the station from behar to marry the elder one. at least we all make sure that he would which come to the same thing. she be two and twenty and he be thirty three with pay and allowance of nearly fourteen hundred rupee a month. so the match a we arrange it be in every way a good one. saumarez be his name and summary be his nature a a man once say. have draft his resolution he form a select committee of one to sit upon it and resolve to take his time. in our unpleasant slang the copleigh girl hunt in couple. that be to say you could do nothing with one without the other. they be very love sister. but their mutual affection be sometimes inconvenient. saumarez hold the balance hair true between them and none but himself could have say to which side his heart incline. though every one guess. he ride with them a good deal and dance with them but he never succeed in detach them from each other for any length of time. 
woman say that the two girl keep together through deep mistrust each fear that the other would steal a march on her. but that ha nothing to do with a man. saumarez be silent for good or bad and a. 
@business likely attentive a he could be have due regard to his work and his polo. beyond doubt both girl be fond of him. 
a the hot weather draw near and saumarez make no sign woman say that you could see their trouble in the eye of the girl that they be look strain anxious and irritable. men be quite blind in these matter unless they have more of the woman than the man in their composition in which case it doe not matter what they say or think. i maintain it be the hot april day that take the color out of the copleigh girl cheek. they should have be send to the hill early. no one man or woman feel an angel when the hot weather be approach. the young sister grow more cynical not to say acid in her way. and the winningness of the elder wear thin. there be more effort in it. 
now the station wherein all these thing happen be though not a little one off the line of rail and suffer through want of attention. there be no garden or band or amusement worth speak of and it be nearly a day s journey to come into lahore for a dance. people be grateful for small thing to interest them. 
about the begin of may and just before the final exodus of hill goer when the weather be very hot and there be not more than twenty people in the station saumarez give a moonlight rid picnic at an old tomb six mile away near the bed of the river. it be a noah s ark picnic. and there be to be the usual arrangement of quarter mile interval between each couple on account of the dust. six couple come altogether include chaperon. moonlight picnic be useful just at the very end of the season before all the girl go away to the hill. they lead to understanding and should be encourage by chaperone. especially those whose girl look sweetish in rid habit. i know a case once. but that be another story. that picnic be call the great pop picnic because every one know saumarez would propose then to the eldest miss copleigh. and beside his affair there be another which might possibly come to happiness. 
the social atmosphere be heavily charge and want clear. 
we meet at the parade grind at ten. the night be fearfully hot. 
the horse sweat even at walk pace but anything be good than sit still in our own dark house. when we move off under the full moon we be four couple one triplet and mr. saumarez ride with the copleigh girl and i loiter at the tail of the procession wonder with whom saumarez would ride home. every one be happy and content. but we all felt that thing be go to happen. we ride slowly. and it be nearly midnight before we reach the old tomb face the ruin tank in the decay garden where we be go to eat and drink. i be late in come up. and before i go into the garden i saw that the horizon to the north carry a faint dun color feather. but no one would have thank me for spoil so well manage an entertainment a this picnic and a dust storm more or le doe no great harm. 
we gather by the tank. some one have bring out a banjo which be a most sentimental instrument and three or four of u sing. 
you must not laugh at this. our amusement in out of the way station be very few indeed. then we talk in group or together lie under the tree with the sun bake rose drop their petal on our foot until supper be ready. it be a beautiful supper a cold and a ice a you could wish. and we stay long over it. 
i have felt that the air be grow hot and hot. but nobody seem to notice it until the moon go out and a burn hot wind begin lash the orange tree with a sound like the noise of the sea. before we know where we be the dust storm be on u and everything be roar whirl darkness. the supper table be blow bodily into the tank. we be afraid of stay anywhere near the old tomb for fear it might be blow down. so we felt our way to the orange tree where the horse be picket and wait for the storm to blow over. then the little light that be leave vanish and you could not see your hand before your face. the air be heavy with dust and sand from the bed of the river that fill boot and pocket and drift down neck and coat eyebrow and moustache. it be one of the bad dust storm of the year. 
we be all huddle together close to the tremble horse with the thunder clatter overhead and the lightning spurt like water from a sluice all way at once. there be no danger of course unless the horse break loose. i be stand with my head downward and my hand over my mouth hear the tree thrash each other. i could not see who be next me till the flash come. 
then i find that i be pack near saumarez and the eldest miss copleigh with my own horse just in front of me. i recognize the eldest miss copleigh because she have a pagri round her helmet and the young have not. all the electricity in the air have go into my body and i be quiver and tingle from head to foot exactly a a corn shoot and tingle before rain. it be a grand storm. 
the wind seem to be pick up the earth and pitch it to leeward in great heap. and the heat beat up from the grind like the heat of the day of judgment. 
the storm lull slightly after the first half hour and i hear a despair little voice close to my ear say to itself quietly and softly a if some lose soul be fly about with the wind. o my god. then the young miss copleigh stumble into my arm say. where be my horse. get my horse. i want to go home. i want to go home. take me home. 
i think that the lightning and the black darkness have frighten her. so i say there be no danger but she must wait till the storm blow over. she answer. it be not that. it be not that. i want to go home. o take me away from here. 
i say that she could not go till the light come. but i felt her brush past me and go away. it be too dark to see where. then the whole sky be split open with one tremendous flash a if the end of the world be come and all the woman shriek. 
almost directly after this i felt a man s hand on my shoulder and hear saumarez bellow in my ear. through the rattle of the tree and howl of the wind i do not catch his word at once but at last i hear him say. i ve propose to the wrong one. what shall i do. saumarez have no occasion to make this confidence to me. i be never a friend of his nor be i now. but i fancy neither of u be ourselves just then. he be shake a he stand with excitement and i be feel queer all over with the electricity. 
i could not think of anything to say except. more fool you for propose in a dust storm. but i do not see how that would improve the mistake. 
then he shout. where s edith edith copleigh. edith be the young sister. i answer out of my astonishment. what do you want with her. would you believe it for the next two minute he and i be shout at each other like maniac he vow that it be the young sister he have mean to propose to all along and i tell him till my throat be hoarse that he must have make a mistake. i can t account for this except again by the fact that we be neither of u ourselves. everything seem to me like a bad dream from the stamp of the horse in the darkness to saumarez tell me the story of his love edith copleigh since the first. he be still claw my shoulder and beg me to tell him where edith copleigh be when another lull come and bring light with it and we saw the dust cloud form on the plain in front of u. so we know the bad be over. the moon be low down and there be just the glimmer of the false dawn that come about an hour before the real one. but the light be very faint and the dun cloud roar like a bull. i wonder where edith copleigh have go. and a i be wonder i saw three thing together. first maud copleigh s face come smile out of the darkness and move towards saumarez who be stand by me. i hear the girl whisper george and slide her arm through the arm that be not claw my shoulder and i saw that look on her face which only come once or twice in a lifetime when a woman be perfectly happy and the air be full of trumpet and gorgeous color fire and the earth turn into cloud because she love and be love. at the same time i saw saumarez s face a he hear maud copleigh s voice and fifty yard away from the clump of orange tree i saw a brown holland habit get upon a horse. 
it must have be my state of over excitement that make me so quick to meddle with what do not concern me. saumarez be move off to the habit. but i push him back and say. stop here and explain. i ll fetch her back. and i run out to get at my own horse. i have a perfectly unnecessary notion that everything must be do decently and in order and that saumarez s first care be to wipe the happy look out of maud copleigh s face. all the time i be link up the curb chain i wonder how he would do it. 
i canter after edith copleigh think to bring her back slowly on some pretence or another. but she gallop away a soon a she saw me and i be force to ride after her in earnest. she call back over her shoulder go away. i m go home. oh go away. two or three time. but my business be to catch her first and argue late. the ride just fit in with the rest of the evil dream. the grind be very bad and now and again we rush through the whirl choke dust devil in the skirt of the fly storm. there be a burn hot wind blow that bring up a stench of stale brick kiln with it. and through the half light and through the dust devil across that desolate plain flicker the brown holland habit on the gray horse. she head for the station at first. then she wheel round and set off for the river through bed of burn down jungle grass bad even to ride a pig over. in cold blood i should never have dream of go over such a country at night but it seem quite right and natural with the lightning crackle overhead and a reek like the smell of the pit in my nostril. i ride and shout and she bend forward and lash her horse and the aftermath of the dust storm come up and catch u both and drive u downwind like piece of paper. 
i don t know how far we ride. but the drum of the horse hoof and the roar of the wind and the race of the faint blood red moon through the yellow mist seem to have go on for year and year and i be literally drench with sweat from my helmet to my gaiter when the gray stumble recover himself and pull up dead lame. my brute be use up altogether. edith copleigh be in a sad state plaster with dust her helmet off and cry bitterly. why can t you let me alone. she say. i only want to get away and go home. oh please let me go. 
you have get to come back with me miss copleigh. saumarez ha something to say to you. 
it be a foolish way of put it. but i hardly know miss copleigh. and though i be play providence at the cost of my horse i could not tell her in a many word what saumarez have tell me. i think he could do that good himself. all her pretence about be tire and want to go home break down and she rock herself to and fro in the saddle a she sob and the hot wind blow her black hair to leeward. i be not go to repeat what she say because she be utterly unstring. 
this if you please be the cynical miss copleigh. here be i almost an utter strange to her try to tell her that saumarez love her and she be to come back to hear him say so. i believe i make myself understand for she gather the gray together and make him hobble somehow and we set off for the tomb while the storm go thunder down to umballa and a few big drop of warm rain fell. i find out that she have be stand close to saumarez when he propose to her sister and have want to go home and cry in peace a an english girl should. she dabble her eye with her pocket handkerchief a we go along and babble to me out of sheer lightness of heart and hysteria. that be perfectly unnatural. and yet it seem all right at the time and in the place. all the world be only the two copleigh girl saumarez and i ring in with the lightning and the dark. and the guidance of this misguide world seem to lie in my hand. 
when we return to the tomb in the deep dead stillness that follow the storm the dawn be just break and nobody have go away. they be wait for our return. saumarez most of all. 
his face be white and draw. a miss copleigh and i limp up he come forward to meet u and when he help her down from her saddle he kiss her before all the picnic. it be like a scene in a theatre and the liken be heighten by all the dust white ghostly look men and woman under the orange tree clap their hand a if they be watch a play at saumarez s choice. i never know anything so un english in my life. 
lastly saumarez say we must all go home or the station would come out to look for u and would i be good enough to ride home with maud copleigh. nothing would give me great pleasure i say. 
so we form up six couple in all and go back two by two. saumarez walk at the side of edith copleigh who be rid his horse. 
the air be clear. and little by little a the sun rise i felt we be all drop back again into ordinary men and woman and that the great pop picnic be a thing altogether apart and out of the world never to happen again. it have go with the dust storm and the tingle in the hot air. 
i felt tire and limp and a good deal ashamed of myself a i go in for a bath and some sleep. 
there be a woman s version of this story but it will never be write. unless maud copleigh care to try. 
the rescue of pluffles. 
thus for a season they fight it fair she and his cousin may tactful talented debonnaire decorous foe be they. but never can battle of man compare with merciless feminine fray. two and one. 
mr. hauksbee be sometimes nice to her own sex. here be a story to prove this. and you can believe just a much a ever you please. 
pluffles be a subaltern in the unmentionable. he be callow even for a subaltern. he be callow all over like a canary that have not finish fledge itself. the bad of it be he have three time a much money a be good for him. pluffles papa be a rich man and pluffles be the only son. pluffles mamma adore him. she be only a little le callow than pluffles and she believe everything he say. 
pluffles weakness be not believe what people say. he prefer what he call trust to his own judgment. he have a much judgment a he have seat or hand. and this preference tumble him into trouble once or twice. but the big trouble pluffles ever manufacture come about at simla some year ago when he be four and twenty. 
he begin by trust to his own judgment a usual and the result be that after a time he be bind hand and foot to mr. reiver s rickshaw wheel. 
there be nothing good about mr. reiver unless it be her dress. 
she be bad from her hair which start life on a brittany s girl s head to her boot heel which be two and three eighth inch high. she be not honestly mischievous like mr. hauksbee. she be wicked in a business like way. 
there be never any scandal she have not generous impulse enough for that. she be the exception which prove the rule that anglo indian lady be in every way a nice a their sister at home. 
she spend her life in prove that rule. 
mr. hauksbee and she hat each other fervently. they hear far too much to clash. but the thing they say of each other be startle not to say original. mr. hauksbee be honest honest a her own front teeth and but for her love of mischief would have be a woman s woman. there be no honesty about mr. reiver. nothing but selfishness. and at the begin of the season poor little pluffles fell a prey to her. she lay herself out to that end and who be pluffles to resist. he go on trust to his judgment and he get judge. 
i have see hay argue with a tough horse i have see a tonga driver coerce a stubborn pony i have see a riotous setter break to gun by a hard keeper but the break in of pluffles of the unmentionable be beyond all these. he learn to fetch and carry like a dog and to wait like one too for a word from mr. reiver. he learn to keep appointment which mr. reiver have no intention of keep. he learn to take thankfully dance which mr. reiver have no intention of give him. he learn to shiver for an hour and a quarter on the windward side of elysium while mr. reiver be make up her mind to come for a ride. he learn to hunt for a rickshaw in a light dress suit under a pelt rain and to walk by the side of that rickshaw when he have find it. he learn what it be to be speak to like a coolie and order about like a cook. he learn all this and many other thing besides. and he pay for his school. 
perhaps in some hazy way he fancy that it be fine and impressive that it give him a status among men and be altogether the thing to do. it be nobody s business to warn pluffles that he be unwise. the pace that season be too good to inquire. and meddle with another man s folly be always thankless work. 
pluffles colonel should have order him back to his regiment when he hear how thing be go. but pluffles have get himself engage to a girl in england the last time he go home. and if there be one thing more than another which the colonel detest it be a marry subaltern. he chuckle when he hear of the education of pluffles and say it be good train for the boy. but it be not good train in the least. it lead him into spend money beyond his mean which be good. above that the education spoil an average boy and make it a tenth rate man of an objectionable kind. he wander into a bad set and his little bill at hamilton s be a thing to wonder at. 
then mr. hauksbee rise to the occasion. she play her game alone know what people would say of her. and she play it for the sake of a girl she have never see. pluffles fiancee be to come out under the chaperonage of an aunt in october to be marry to pluffles. 
at the begin of august mr. hauksbee discover that it be time to interfere. a man who ride much know exactly what a horse be go to do next before he doe it. in the same way a woman of mr. hauksbee s experience know accurately how a boy will behave under certain circumstance notably when he be infatuate with one of mr. reiver s stamp. she say that sooner or late little pluffles would break off that engagement for nothing at all simply to gratify mr. reiver who in return would keep him at her foot and in her service just so long a she find it worth her while. 
she say she know the sign of these thing. if she do not no one else could. 
then she go forth to capture pluffles under the gun of the enemy. just a mr. cusack bremmil carry away bremmil under mr. hauksbee s eye. 
this particular engagement last seven week we call it the seven week war and be fight out inch by inch on both side. a detail account would fill a book and would be incomplete then. 
any one who know about these thing can fit in the detail for himself. it be a superb fight there will never be another like it a long a jakko stand and pluffles be the prize of victory. 
people say shameful thing about mr. hauksbee. they do not know what she be play for. mr. reiver fight partly because pluffles be useful to her but mainly because she hat mr. hauksbee and the matter be a trial of strength between them. no one know what pluffles think. he have not many idea at the best of time and the few he possess make him conceited. mr. hauksbee say. the boy must be catch. and the only way of catch him be by treat him well. 
so she treat him a a man of the world and of experience so long a the issue be doubtful. little by little pluffles fell away from his old allegiance and come over to the enemy by whom he be make much of. he be never send on out post duty after rickshaw any more nor be he give dance which never come off nor be the drain on his purse continue. mr. hauksbee hold him on the snaffle. and after his treatment at mr. reiver s hand he appreciate the change. 
mr. reiver have break him of talk about himself and make him talk about her own merit. mr. hauksbee act otherwise and win his confidence till he mention his engagement to the girl at home speak of it in a high and mighty way a a piece of boyish folly. this be when he be take tea with her one afternoon and discourse in what he consider a gay and fascinate style. 
mr. hauksbee have see an early generation of his stamp bud and blossom and decay into fat captain and tubby major. 
at a moderate estimate there be about three and twenty side to that lady s character. some men say more. she begin to talk to pluffles after the manner of a mother and a if there have be three hundred year instead of fifteen between them. she speak with a sort of throaty quaver in her voice which have a soothe effect though what she say be anything but soothe. she point out the exceed folly not to say meanness of pluffles conduct and the smallness of his view. then he stammer something about trust to his own judgment a a man of the world. and this pave the way for what she want to say next. it would have wither up pluffles have it come from any other woman. but in the soft coo style in which mr. hauksbee put it it only make him feel limp and repentant a if he have be in some superior kind of church. little by little very softly and pleasantly she begin take the conceit out of pluffles a you take the rib out of an umbrella before re cover it. she tell him what she think of him and his judgment and his knowledge of the world. and how his performance have make him ridiculous to other people. and how it be his intention to make love to herself if she give him the chance. then she say that marriage would be the make of him. and draw a pretty little picture all rise and opal of the mr. pluffles of the future go through life rely on the judgment and knowledge of the world of a husband who have nothing to reproach himself with. how she reconcile these two statement she alone know. but they do not strike pluffles a conflict. 
hers be a perfect little homily much good than any clergyman could have give and it end with touch allusion to pluffles mamma and papa and the wisdom of take his bride home. 
then she send pluffles out for a walk to think over what she have say. pluffles leave blow his nose very hard and hold himself very straight. mr. hauksbee laugh. 
what pluffles have intend to do in the matter of the engagement only mr. reiver know and she keep her own counsel to her death. she would have like it spoil a a compliment i fancy. 
pluffles enjoy many talk with mr. hauksbee during the next few day. they be all to the same end and they help pluffles in the path of virtue. 
mr. hauksbee want to keep him under her wing to the last. 
therefore she discountenance his go down to bombay to get marry. goodness only know what might happen by the way. she say. pluffles be curse with the curse of reuben and india be no fit place for him. 
in the end the fiancee arrive with her aunt. and pluffles have reduce his affair to some sort of order here again mr. hauksbee help him be marry. 
mr. hauksbee give a sigh of relief when both the i will have be say and go her way. 
pluffles take her advice about go home. he leave the service and be now raise speckle cattle inside green paint fence somewhere at home. i believe he doe this very judiciously. he would have come to extreme grief out here. 
for these reason if any one say anything more than usually nasty about mr. hauksbee tell him the story of the rescue of pluffles. 
cupid s arrow. 
pit where the buffalo cool his hide by the hot sun empty and blister and dry. log in the reh grass hide and alone. bund where the earth rat s mound be strown. cave in the bank where the sly stream steal. aloe that stab at the belly and heel jump if you dare on a steed untried safe it be to go wide go wide. hark from in front where the best men ride. pull to the off boy. wide. go wide. the peora hunt. 
once upon a time there live at simla a very pretty girl the daughter of a poor but honest district and session judge. she be a good girl but could not help know her power and use it. 
her mamma be very anxious about her daughter s future a all good mamma should be. 
when a man be a commissioner and a bachelor and ha the right of wear open work jam tart jewel in gold and enamel on his clothe and of go through a door before every one except a member of council a lieutenant governor or a viceroy he be worth marry. at least that be what lady say. there be a commissioner in simla in those day who be and wear and do all i have say. he be a plain man an ugly man the ugly man in asia with two exception. his be a face to dream about and try to carve on a pipe head afterwards. his name be saggott barr saggott anthony barr saggott and six letter to follow. 
departmentally he be one of the best men the government of india own. socially he be like a blandish gorilla. 
when he turn his attention to miss beighton i believe that mr. 
beighton weep with delight at the reward providence have send her in her old age. 
mr. beighton hold his tongue. he be an easy go man. 
now a commissioner be very rich. his pay be beyond the dream of avarice be so enormous that he can afford to save and scrape in a way that would almost discredit a member of council. most commissioner be mean. but barr saggott be an exception. he entertain royally. he horse himself well. he give dance. he be a power in the land. and he behave a such. 
consider that everything i be write of take place in an almost pre historic era in the history of british india. some folk may remember the year before lawn tennis be bear when we all play croquet. there be season before that if you will believe me when even croquet have not be invent and archery which be revive in england in be a great a pest a lawn tennis be now. people talk learnedly about hold and loose stele reflexed bow pound bow back or self yew bow a we talk about rally volley smash return and ounce racket. 
miss beighton shoot divinely over lady distance yard that be and be acknowledge the best lady archer in simla. men call her diana of tara devi. 
barr saggott pay her great attention. and a i have say the heart of her mother be uplift in consequence. kitty beighton take matter more calmly. it be pleasant to be single out by a commissioner with letter after his name and to fill the heart of other girl with bad feeling. but there be no deny the fact that barr saggott be phenomenally ugly. and all his attempt to adorn himself only make him more grotesque. he be not christen the langur which mean gray ape for nothing. it be pleasant kitty think to have him at her foot but it be good to escape from him and ride with the graceless cubbon the man in a dragoon regiment at umballa the boy with a handsome face and no prospect. kitty like cubbon more than a little. he never pretend for a moment the he be anything le than head over heel in love with her. for he be an honest boy. so kitty flee now and again from the stately wooing of barr saggott to the company of young cubbon and be scold by her mamma in consequence. but mother she say mr. saggott be such such a be so fearfully ugly you know. 
my dear say mr. beighton piously we cannot be other than an all rule providence ha make u. besides you will take precedence of your own mother you know. think of that and be reasonable. 
then kitty put up her little chin and say irreverent thing about precedence and commissioner and matrimony. mr. beighton rub the top of his head. for he be an easy go man. 
late in the season when he judge that the time be ripe barr saggott develop a plan which do great credit to his administrative power. he arrange an archery tournament for lady with a most sumptuous diamond stud bracelet a prize. 
he draw up his term skilfully and every one saw that the bracelet be a gift to miss beighton. the acceptance carry with it the hand and the heart of commissioner barr saggott. the term be a st. leonard s round thirty six shot at sixty yard under the rule of the simla toxophilite society. 
all simla be invite. there be beautifully arrange tea table under the deodar at annandale where the grand stand be now. and alone in it glory wink in the sun sit the diamond bracelet in a blue velvet case. miss beighton be anxious almost too anxious to compete. on the appoint afternoon all simla ride down to annandale to witness the judgment of paris turn upside down. 
kitty ride with young cubbon and it be easy to see that the boy be trouble in his mind. he must be hold innocent of everything that follow. kitty be pale and nervous and look long at the bracelet. barr saggott be gorgeously dress even more nervous than kitty and more hideous than ever. 
mr. beighton smile condescendingly a befit the mother of a potential commissioneress and the shoot begin. all the world stand in a semicircle a the lady come out one after the other. 
nothing be so tedious a an archery competition. they shoot and they shoot and they keep on shoot till the sun leave the valley and little breeze get up in the deodar and people wait for miss beighton to shoot and win. cubbon be at one horn of the semicircle round the shooter and barr saggott at the other. miss beighton be last on the list. the score have be weak and the bracelet plus commissioner barr saggott be hers to a certainty. 
the commissioner string her bow with his own sacred hand. she step forward look at the bracelet and her first arrow go true to a hair full into the heart of the gold count nine point. 
young cubbon on the leave turn white and his devil prompt barr saggott to smile. now horse use to shy when barr saggott smile. 
kitty saw that smile. she look to her leave front give an almost imperceptible nod to cubbon and go on shoot. 
i wish i could describe the scene that follow. it be out of the ordinary and most improper. miss kitty fit her arrow with immense deliberation so that every one might see what she be do. she be a perfect shoot. and her pound bow suit her to a nicety. she pin the wooden leg of the target with great care four successive time. she pin the wooden top of the target once and all the lady look at each other. then she begin some fancy shoot at the white which if you hit it count exactly one point. she put five arrow into the white. it be wonderful archery. but see that her business be to make gold and win the bracelet barr saggott turn a delicate green like young water grass. next she shoot over the target twice then wide to the leave twice always with the same deliberation while a chilly hush fell over the company and mr. beighton take out her handkerchief. then kitty shoot at the grind in front of the target and split several arrow. then she make a red or seven point just to show what she could do if she like and finish up her amaze performance with some more fancy shoot at the target support. here be her score a it be pick off. 
gold. red. blue. black. white. total hit. total score miss beighton. 
barr saggott look a if the last few arrowhead have be drive into his leg instead of the target s and the deep stillness be break by a little snubby mottle half grow girl say in a shrill voice of triumph. then i ve win. 
mr. beighton do her best to bear up. but she weep in the presence of the people. no train could help her through such a disappointment. kitty unstring her bow with a vicious jerk and go back to her place while barr saggott be try to pretend that he enjoy snap the bracelet on the snubby girl s raw red wrist. it be an awkward scene most awkward. every one try to depart in a body and leave kitty to the mercy of her mamma. 
but cubbon take her away instead and the rest isn t worth print. 
his chance in life. 
then a pile of head be lay thirty thousand heap on high all to please the kafir maid where the oxus ripple by. 
grimly spake atulla khan. love hath make this thing a man. oatta s story. 
if you go straight away from levee and government house list past trade ball far beyond everything and everybody you ever know in your respectable life you cross in time the border line where the last drop of white blood end and the full tide of black set in. it would be easy to talk to a new make duchess on the spur of the moment than to the borderline folk without violate some of their convention or hurt their feeling. the black and the white mix very quaintly in their way. sometimes the white show in spurt of fierce childish pride which be pride of race run crook and sometimes the black in still fierce abasement and humility half heathenish custom and strange unaccountable impulse to crime. one of these day this people understand they be far low than the class whence derozio the man who imitate byron spring will turn out a writer or a poet. and then we shall know how they live and what they feel. in the meantime any story about them cannot be absolutely correct in fact or inference. 
miss vezzis come from across the borderline to look after some child who belong to a lady until a regularly ordain nurse could come out. the lady say miss vezzis be a bad dirty nurse and inattentive. it never strike her that miss vezzis have her own life to lead and her own affair to worry over and that these affair be the most important thing in the world to miss vezzis. 
very few mistress admit this sort of reason. miss vezzis be a black a a boot and to our standard of taste hideously ugly. 
she wear cotton print gown and bulge shoe. and when she lose her temper with the child she abuse them in the language of the borderline which be part english part portuguese and part native. she be not attractive. but she have her pride and she prefer be call miss vezzis. 
every sunday she dress herself wonderfully and go to see her mamma who live for the most part on an old cane chair in a greasy tussur silk dress gown and a big rabbit warren of a house full of vezzises pereiras ribieras lisboa and gansalveses and a float population of loafer. besides fragment of the day s bazar garlic stale incense clothe throw on the floor petticoat hang on string for screen old bottle pewter crucifix dry immortelle pariah puppy plaster image of the virgin and hat without crown. miss vezzis draw twenty rupee a month for act a nurse and she squabble weekly with her mamma a to the percentage to be give towards housekeep. 
when the quarrel be over michele d cruze use to shamble across the low mud wall of the compound and make love to miss vezzis after the fashion of the borderline which be hedge about with much ceremony. michele be a poor sickly weed and very black. but he have his pride. he would not be see smoke a huqa for anything. and he look down on native a only a man with seven eighth native blood in his vein can. the vezzis family have their pride too. they trace their descent from a mythical plate layer who have work on the sone bridge when railway be new in india and they value their english origin. michele be a telegraph signaller on r. a month. the fact that he be in government employ make mr. vezzis lenient to the shortcoming of his ancestor. 
there be a compromise legend dom anna the tailor bring it from poonani that a black jew of cochin have once marry into the d cruze family. while it be an open secret that an uncle of mr. d cruze be at that very time do menial work connect with cook for a club in southern india. he send mr d cruze seven rupee eight anna a month. but she felt the disgrace to the family very keenly all the same. 
however in the course of a few sunday mr. vezzis bring herself to overlook these blemish and give her consent to the marriage of her daughter with michele on condition that michele should have at least fifty rupee a month to start marry life upon. this wonderful prudence must have be a linger touch of the mythical plate layer s yorkshire blood. for across the borderline people take a pride in marry when they please not when they can. 
have regard to his departmental prospect miss vezzis might a well have ask michele to go away and come back with the moon in his pocket. but michele be deeply in love with miss vezzis and that help him to endure. he accompany miss vezzis to mass one sunday and after mass walk home through the hot stale dust with her hand in his he swear by several saint whose name would not interest you never to forget miss vezzis. and she swear by her honor and the saint the oath run rather curiously. in nomine sanctissimae. whatever the name of the she saint be. and so forth end with a kiss on the forehead a kiss on the leave cheek and a kiss on the mouth never to forget michele. 
next week michele be transfer and miss vezzis drop tear upon the window sash of the intermediate compartment a he leave the station. 
if you look at the telegraph map of india you will see a long line skirt the coast from backergunge to madras. michele be order to tibasu a little sub office one third down this line to send message on from berhampur to chicacola and to think of miss vezzis and his chance of get fifty rupee a month out of office hour. he have the noise of the bay of bengal and a bengali babu for company. nothing more. he send foolish letter with cross tuck inside the flap of the envelope to miss vezzis. 
when he have be at tibasu for nearly three week his chance come. 
never forget that unless the outward and visible sign of our authority be always before a native he be a incapable a a child of understand what authority mean or where be the danger of disobey it. tibasu be a forget little place with a few orissa mohamedans in it. these hear nothing of the collector sahib for some time and heartily despise the hindu sub judge arrange to start a little mohurrum riot of their own. but the hindu turn out and break their head. when find lawlessness pleasant hindu and mahomedans together raise an aimless sort of donnybrook just to see how far they could go. they loot each other s shop and pay off private grudge in the regular way. it be a nasty little riot but not worth put in the newspaper. 
michele be work in his office when he hear the sound that a man never forget all his life the ah yah of an angry crowd. 
[when that sound drop about three tone and change to a thick drone ut the man who hear it have good go away if he be alone. ] the native police inspector run in and tell michele that the town be in an uproar and come to wreck the telegraph office. 
the babu put on his cap and quietly drop out of the window. while the police inspector afraid but obey the old race instinct which recognize a drop of white blood a far a it can be dilute say. what order doe the sahib give. 
the sahib decide michele. though horribly frighten he felt that for the hour he the man with the cochin jew and the menial uncle in his pedigree be the only representative of english authority in the place. then he think of miss vezzis and the fifty rupee and take the situation on himself. there be seven native policeman in tibasu and four crazy smooth bore musket among them. all the men be gray with fear but not beyond lead. michele drop the key of the telegraph instrument and go out at the head of his army to meet the mob. a the shout crew come round a corner of the road he drop and fire. the men behind him loose instinctively at the same time. 
the whole crowd cur to the backbone yell and run. leave one man dead and another die in the road. michele be sweat with fear but he keep his weakness under and go down into the town past the house where the sub judge have barricade himself. the street be empty. tibasu be more frighten than michele for the mob have be take at the right time. 
michele return to the telegraph office and send a message to chicacola ask for help. before an answer come he receive a deputation of the elder of tibasu tell him that the sub judge say his action generally be unconstitional and try to bully him. but the heart of michele d cruze be big and white in his breast because of his love for miss vezzis the nurse girl and because he have taste for the first time responsibility and success. those two make an intoxicate drink and have ruin more men than ever ha whiskey. michele answer that the sub judge might say what he please but until the assistant collector come the telegraph signaller be the government of india in tibasu and the elder of the town would be hold accountable for further riot. then they bow their head and say. show mercy. or word to that effect and go back in great fear. each accuse the other of have begin the riot. 
early in the dawn after a night s patrol with his seven policeman michele go down the road musket in hand to meet the assistant collector who have ride in to quell tibasu. but in the presence of this young englishman michele felt himself slip back more and more into the native and the tale of the tibasu riot end with the strain on the teller in an hysterical outburst of tear breed by sorrow that he have kill a man shame that he could not feel a uplift a he have felt through the night and childish anger that his tongue could not do justice to his great deed. it be the white drop in michele s vein die out though he do not know it. 
but the englishman understand. and after he have school those men of tibasu and have confer with the sub judge till that excellent official turn green he find time to draught an official letter describe the conduct of michele. which letter filter through the proper channel and end in the transfer of michele up country once more on the imperial salary of sixty six rupee a month. 
so he and miss vezzis be marry with great state and ancientry. and now there be several little d cruzes sprawl about the verandah of the central telegraph office. 
but if the whole revenue of the department he serf be to be his reward michele could never never repeat what he do at tibasu for the sake of miss vezzis the nurse girl. 
which prof that when a man doe good work out of all proportion to his pay in seven case out of nine there be a woman at the back of the virtue. 
the two exception must have suffer from sunstroke. 
watch of the night. 
what be in the brahmin s book that be in the brahmin s heart. neither you nor i know there be so much evil in the world. hindu proverb. 
this begin in a practical joke. but it ha go far enough now and be get serious. 
platte the subaltern be poor have a waterbury watch and a plain leather guard. 
the colonel have a waterbury watch also and for guard the lip strap of a curb chain. lip strap make the best watch guard. 
they be strong and short. between a lip strap and an ordinary leather guard there be no great difference. between one waterbury watch and another there be none at all. every one in the station know the colonel s lip strap. he be not a horsey man but he like people to believe he have be one once. and he weave fantastic story of the hunt bridle to which this particular lip strap have belong. otherwise he be painfully religious. 
platte and the colonel be dress at the club both late for their engagement and both in a hurry. that be kismet. the two watch be on a shelf below the look glass guard hang down. that be carelessness. platte change first snatch a watch look in the glass settle his tie and run. forty second late the colonel do exactly the same thing. each man take the other s watch. 
you may have notice that many religious people be deeply suspicious. they seem for purely religious purpose of course to know more about iniquity than the unregenerate. perhaps they be specially bad before they become convert. at any rate in the imputation of thing evil and in put the bad construction on thing innocent a certain type of good people may be trust to surpass all others. the colonel and his wife be of that type. but the colonel s wife be the bad. she manufacture the station scandal and talk to her ayah. nothing more need be say. the colonel s wife break up the laplace s home. the colonel s wife stop the ferris haughtrey engagement. the colonel s wife induce young buxton to keep his wife down in the plain through the first year of the marriage. whereby little mr. 
buxton die and the baby with her. these thing will be remember against the colonel s wife so long a there be a regiment in the country. 
but to come back to the colonel and platte. they go their several way from the dress room. the colonel din with two chaplain while platte go to a bachelor party and whist to follow. 
mark how thing happen. if platte s sais have put the new saddle pad on the mare the butt of the terrets would not have work through the wear leather and the old pad into the mare s wither when she be come home at two o clock in the morning. she would not have rear bolt fall into a ditch upset the cart and send platte fly over an aloe hedge on to mr. larkyn s well keep lawn. and this tale would never have be write. but the mare do all these thing and while platte be roll over and over on the turf like a shoot rabbit the watch and guard fly from his waistcoat a an infantry major s sword hop out of the scabbard when they be fire a feu de joie and roll and roll in the moonlight till it stop under a window. 
platte stuff his handkerchief under the pad put the cart straight and go home. 
mark again how kismet work. this would not happen once in a hundred year. towards the end of his dinner with the two chaplain the colonel let out his waistcoat and lean over the table to look at some mission report. the bar of the watch guard work through the buttonhole and the watch platte s watch slide quietly on to the carpet. where the bearer find it next morning and keep it. 
then the colonel go home to the wife of his bosom. but the driver of the carriage be drink and lose his way. so the colonel return at an unseemly hour and his excuse be not accept. if the colonel s wife have be an ordinary vessel of wrath appoint for destruction she would have know that when a man stay away on purpose his excuse be always sound and original. the very baldness of the colonel s explanation prove it truth. 
see once more the working of kismet. the colonel s watch which come with platte hurriedly on to mr. larkyn s lawn choose to stop just under mr. larkyn s window where she saw it early in the morning recognize it and pick it up. she have hear the crash of platte s cart at two o clock that morning and his voice call the mare name. she know platte and like him. that day she show him the watch and hear his story. he put his head on one side wink and say. how disgust. shock old man. with his religious train too. i should send the watch to the colonel s wife and ask for explanation. 
mr. larkyn think for a minute of the laplace whom she have know when laplace and his wife believe in each other and answer. i will send it. i think it will do her good. but remember we must never tell her the truth. 
platte guess that his own watch be in the colonel s possession and think that the return of the lip strap waterbury with a soothe note from mr. larkyn would merely create a small trouble for a few minute. mr. larkyn know good. she know that any poison drop would find good hold grind in the heart of the colonel s wife. 
the packet and a note contain a few remark on the colonel s call hour be send over to the colonel s wife who weep in her own room and take counsel with herself. 
if there be one woman under heaven whom the colonel s wife hat with holy fervor it be mr. larkyn. mr. larkyn be a frivolous lady and call the colonel s wife old cat. the colonel s wife say that somebody in revelation be remarkably like mr. larkyn. 
she mention other scripture people a well. from the old testament. [but the colonel s wife be the only person who care or dare to say anything against mr. larkyn. every one else accept her a an amuse honest little body. ] wherefore to believe that her husband have be shed watch under that thing s window at ungodly hour couple with the fact of his late arrival on the previous night be. 
at this point she rise up and seek her husband. he deny everything except the ownership of the watch. she beseech him for his soul s sake to speak the truth. he deny afresh with two bad word. then a stony silence hold the colonel s wife while a man could draw his breath five time. 
the speech that follow be no affair of mine or yours. it be make up of wifely and womanly jealousy. knowledge of old age and sink cheek. deep mistrust bear of the text that say even little baby heart be a bad a they make them. rancorous hatred of mr. larkyn and the tenet of the creed of the colonel s wife s upbringing. 
over and above all be the damn lip strap waterbury tick away in the palm of her shake wither hand. at that hour i think the colonel s wife realize a little of the restless suspicion she have inject into old laplace s mind a little of poor miss haughtrey s misery and some of the canker that eat into buxton s heart a he watch his wife die before his eye. the colonel stammer and try to explain. then he remember that his watch have disappear. and the mystery grow great. the colonel s wife talk and pray by turn till she be tire and go away to devise mean for chasten the stubborn heart of her husband. which translate mean in our slang tail twist. 
you see be deeply impress with the doctrine of original sin she could not believe in the face of appearance. she know too much and jump to the wild conclusion. 
but it be good for her. it spoil her life a she have spoil the life of the laplace. she have lose her faith in the colonel and here the creed suspicion come in he might she argue have err many time before a merciful providence at the hand of so unworthy an instrument a mr. larkyn have establish his guilt. 
he be a bad wicked gray haired profligate. this may sound too sudden a revulsion for a long wed wife. but it be a venerable fact that if a man or woman make a practice of and take a delight in believe and spread evil of people indifferent to him or her he or she will end in believe evil of folk very near and dear. you may think also that the mere incident of the watch be too small and trivial to raise this misunderstand. it be another age fact that in life a well a race all the bad accident happen at little ditch and cut down fence. in the same way you sometimes see a woman who would have make a joan of arc in another century and climate thresh herself to piece over all the mean worry of housekeep. but that be another story. 
her belief only make the colonel s wife more wretched because it insist so strongly on the villainy of men. remember what she have do it be pleasant to watch her unhappiness and the penny farthing attempt she make to hide it from the station. but the station know and laugh heartlessly. for they have hear the story of the watch with much dramatic gesture from mr. larkyn s lip. 
once or twice platte say to mr. larkyn see that the colonel have not clear himself. this thing ha go far enough. i move we tell the colonel s wife how it happen. mr. larkyn shut her lip and shake her head and vow that the colonel s wife must bear her punishment a best she could. now mr. larkyn be a frivolous woman in whom none would have suspect deep hate. so platte take no action and come to believe gradually from the colonel s silence that the colonel must have run off the line somewhere that night and therefore prefer to stand sentence on the less count of ramble into other people s compound out of call hour. platte forget about the watch business after a while and move down country with his regiment. mr. larkyn go home when her husband s tour of indian service expire. she never forget. 
but platte be quite right when he say that the joke have go too far. the mistrust and the tragedy of it which we outsider cannot see and do not believe in be kill the colonel s wife and be make the colonel wretched. if either of them read this story they can depend upon it be a fairly true account of the case and can kiss and make friend. 
shakespeare allude to the pleasure of watch an engineer be shell by his own battery. now this show that poet should not write about what they do not understand. any one could have tell him that sapper and gunner be perfectly different branch of the service. but if you correct the sentence and substitute gunner for sapper the moral come just the same. 
the other man. 
when the earth be sick and the sky be gray and the wood be rot with rain the dead man ride through the autumn day to visit his love again. old ballad. 
far back in the seventy before they have build any public office at simla and the broad road round jakko live in a pigeon hole in the p. w. d. hovel her parent make miss gaurey marry colonel schreiderling. he could not have be much more than thirty five year her senior. and a he live on two hundred rupee a month and have money of his own he be well off. he belong to good people and suffer in the cold weather from lung complaint. in the hot weather he dangle on the brink of heat apoplexy. but it never quite kill him. 
understand i do not blame schreiderling. he be a good husband accord to his light and his temper only fail him when he be be nurse. which be some seventeen day in each month. he be almost generous to his wife about money matter and that for him be a concession. still mr. schreiderling be not happy. they marry her when she be this side of twenty and have give all her poor little heart to another man. i have forget his name but we will call him the other man. he have no money and no prospect. 
he be not even good look. and i think he be in the commissariat or transport. but in spite of all these thing she love him very madly. and there be some sort of an engagement between the two when schreiderling appear and tell mr. gaurey that he wish to marry her daughter. then the other engagement be break off wash away by mr. gaurey s tear for that lady govern her house by weep over disobedience to her authority and the lack of reverence she receive in her old age. the daughter do not take after her mother. she never cry. not even at the wed. 
the other man bore his loss quietly and be transfer to a bad a station a he could find. perhaps the climate console him. he suffer from intermittent fever and that may have distract him from his other trouble. he be weak about the heart also. both way. one of the valve be affect and the fever make it bad. 
this show itself late on. 
then many month pass and mr. schreiderling take to be ill. 
she do not pine away like people in story book but she seem to pick up every form of illness that go about a station from simple fever upwards. she be never more than ordinarily pretty at the best of time. and the illness make her ugly. schreiderling say so. he pride himself on speak his mind. 
when she cease be pretty he leave her to her own device and go back to the lair of his bachelordom. she use to trot up and down simla mall in a forlorn sort of way with a gray terai hat well on the back of her head and a shock bad saddle under her. 
schreiderling s generosity stop at the horse. he say that any saddle would do for a woman a nervous a mr. schreiderling. she never be ask to dance because she do not dance well. and she be so dull and uninteresting that her box very seldom have any card in it. schreiderling say that if he have know that she be go to be such a scare crow after her marriage he would never have marry her. he always pride himself on speak his mind do schreiderling. 
he leave her at simla one august and go down to his regiment. 
then she revive a little but she never recover her look. i find out at the club that the other man be come up sick very sick on an off chance of recovery. the fever and the heart valve have nearly kill him. she know that too and she know what i have no interest in know when he be come up. i suppose he write to tell her. they have not see each other since a month before the wed. and here come the unpleasant part of the story. 
a late call keep me down at the dovedell hotel till dusk one even. mr. schreidlerling have be flit up and down the mall all the afternoon in the rain. come up along the cart road a tonga pass me and my pony tire with stand so long set off at a canter. just by the road down to the tonga office mr. schreiderling drip from head to foot be wait for the tonga. i turn up hill a the tonga be no affair of mine. and just then she begin to shriek. i go back at once and saw under the tonga office lamp mr. schreiderling kneel in the wet road by the back seat of the newly arrive tonga scream hideously. 
then she fell face down in the dirt a i come up. 
sit in the back seat very square and firm with one hand on the awning stanchion and the wet pour off his hat and moustache be the other man dead. the sixty mile up hill jolt have be too much for his valve i suppose. the tonga driver say. the sahib die two stage out of solon. therefore i tie him with a rope l he should fall out by the way and so come to simla. will the sahib give me bukshish. it point to the other man should have give one rupee. 
the other man sit with a grin on his face a if he enjoy the joke of his arrival. and mr. schreiderling in the mud begin to groan. there be no one except u four in the office and it be rain heavily. the first thing be to take mr. schreiderling home and the second be to prevent her name from be mix up with the affair. the tonga driver receive five rupee to find a bazar rickshaw for mr. schreiderling. he be to tell the tonga babu afterwards of the other man and the babu be to make such arrangement a seem best. 
mr. schreiderling be carry into the shed out of the rain and for three quarter of an hour we two wait for the rickshaw. the other man be leave exactly a he have arrive. mr. schreiderling would do everything but cry which might have help her. she try to scream a soon a her sens come back and then she begin pray for the other man s soul. have she not be a honest a the day she would have pray for her own soul too. i wait to hear her do this but she do not. then i try to get some of the mud off her habit. lastly the rickshaw come and i get her away partly by force. it be a terrible business from begin to end. but most of all when the rickshaw have to squeeze between the wall and the tonga and she saw by the lamp light that thin yellow hand grasp the awning stanchion. 
she be take home just a every one be go to a dance at viceregal lodge peterhoff it be then and the doctor find that she have fall from her horse that i have pick her up at the back of jakko and really deserve great credit for the prompt manner in which i have secure medical aid. she do not die men of schreiderling s stamp marry woman who don t die easily. they live and grow ugly. 
she never tell of her one meet since her marriage with the other man. and when the chill and cough follow the exposure of that even allow her abroad she never by word or sign allude to have meet me by the tonga office. perhaps she never know. 
she use to trot up and down the mall on that shock bad saddle look a if she expect to meet some one round the corner every minute. two year afterward she go home and die at bournemouth i think. 
schreiderling when he grow maudlin at mess use to talk about my poor dear wife. he always set great store on speak his mind do schreiderling. 
consequence. 
rosicrucian subtlety in the orient have rise. ye may find their teacher still under jacatala s hill. 
seek ye bombast paracelsus read what flood the seeker tell u of the dominant that run through the cycle of the sun read my story last and see luna at her apogee. 
there be yearly appointment and two yearly appointment and five yearly appointment at simla and there be or use to be permanent appointment whereon you stay up for the term of your natural life and secure red cheek and a nice income. of course you could descend in the cold weather. for simla be rather dull then. 
tarrion come from goodness know where all away and away in some forsake part of central india where they call pachmari a sanitarium and drive behind trot bullock i believe. he belong to a regiment. but what he really want to do be to escape from his regiment and live in simla forever and ever. he have no preference for anything in particular beyond a good horse and a nice partner. he think he could do everything well. which be a beautiful belief when you hold it with all your heart. he be clever in many way and good to look at and always make people round him comfortable even in central india. 
so he go up to simla and because he be clever and amuse he gravitate naturally to mr. hauksbee who could forgive everything but stupidity. once he do her great service by change the date on an invitation card for a big dance which mr. hauksbee wish to attend but couldn t because she have quarrel with the a. d. c. who take care be a mean man to invite her to a small dance on the th instead of the big ball of the th. it be a very clever piece of forgery. and when mr. hauksbee show the a. d. c. her invitation card and chaff him mildly for not good manage his vendetta he really think he have make a mistake. and which be wise realize that it be no use to fight with mr. hauksbee. she be grateful to tarrion and ask what she could do for him. he say simply. i m a freelance up here on leave and on the lookout for what i can loot. i haven t a square inch of interest in all simla. my name isn t know to any man with an appointment in his gift and i want an appointment a good sound pukka one. i believe you can do anything you turn yourself to do. will you help me. mr. hauksbee think for a minute and pass the last of her rid whip through her lip a be her custom when think. 
then her eye sparkle and she say. i will. and she shake hand on it. tarrion have perfect confidence in this great woman take no further think of the business at all. except to wonder what sort of an appointment he would win. 
mr. hauksbee begin calculate the price of all the head of department and member of council she know and the more she think the more she laugh because her heart be in the game and it amuse her. then she take a civil list and run over a few of the appointment. there be some beautiful appointment in the civil list. eventually she decide that though tarrion be too good for the political department she have good begin by try to get him in there. what be her own plan to this end doe not matter in the least for luck or fate play into her hand and she have nothing to do but to watch the course of event and take the credit of them. 
all viceroy when they first come out pas through the diplomatic secrecy craze. it wear off in time. but they all catch it in the begin because they be new to the country. 
the particular viceroy who be suffer from the complaint just then this be a long time ago before lord dufferin ever come from canada or lord ripon from the bosom of the english church have it very badly. and the result be that men who be new to keep official secret go about look unhappy. and the viceroy plume himself on the way in which he have instill notion of reticence into his staff. 
now the supreme government have a careless custom of commit what they do to print paper. these paper deal with all sort of thing from the payment of r. to a secret service native up to rebuke administer to vakils and motamids of native state and rather brusque letter to native prince tell them to put their house in order to refrain from kidnap woman or fill offender with pound red pepper and eccentricity of that kind. of course these thing could never be make public because native prince never err officially and their state be officially a well administer a our territory. also the private allowance to various queer people be not exactly matter to put into newspaper though they give quaint read sometimes. 
when the supreme government be at simla these paper be prepare there and go round to the people who ought to see them in office box or by post. the principle of secrecy be to that viceroy quite a important a the practice and he hold that a benevolent despotism like ours should never allow even little thing such a appointment of subordinate clerk to leak out till the proper time. he be always remarkable for his principle. 
there be a very important batch of paper in preparation at that time. it have to travel from one end of simla to the other by hand. 
it be not put into an official envelope but a large square pale pink one. the matter be in m. on soft crinkly paper. it be address to the head clerk etc. etc. now between the head clerk etc. etc. and mr. hauksbee and a flourish be no very great difference if the address be write in a very bad hand a this be. the chaprassi who take the envelope be not more of an idiot than most chaprassis. he merely forget where this most unofficial cover be to be deliver and so ask the first englishman he meet who happen to be a man rid down to annandale in a great hurry. the englishman hardly look say. hauksbee sahib ki mem and go on. so do the chaprassi because that letter be the last in stock and he want to get his work over. there be no book to sign. he thrust the letter into mr. hauksbee s bearer s hand and go off to smoke with a friend. 
mr. hauksbee be expect some cut out pattern thing in flimsy paper from a friend. a soon a she get the big square packet therefore she say oh the dear creature. and tear it open with a paper knife and all the m. enclosure tumble out on the floor. 
mr. hauksbee begin read. i have say the batch be rather important. that be quite enough for you to know. it refer to some correspondence two measure a peremptory order to a native chief and two dozen other thing. mr. hauksbee gasp a she read for the first glimpse of the naked machinery of the great indian government strip of it casing and lacquer and paint and guard rail impress even the most stupid man. and mr. hauksbee be a clever woman. she be a little afraid at first and felt a if she have lay hold of a lightning flash by the tail and do not quite know what to do with it. there be remark and initial at the side of the paper. and some of the remark be rather more severe than the paper. the initial belong to men who be all dead or go now. but they be great in their day. 
mr. hauksbee read on and think calmly a she read. then the value of her trove strike her and she cast about for the best method of use it. then tarrion drop in and they read through all the paper together and tarrion not know how she have come by them vow that mr. hauksbee be the great woman on earth. 
which i believe be true or nearly so. 
the honest course be always the best say tarrion after an hour and a half of study and conversation. all thing consider the intelligence branch be about my form. either that or the foreign office. i go to lay siege to the high god in their temple. 
he do not seek a little man or a little big man or a weak head of a strong department but he call on the big and strong man that the government own and explain that he want an appointment at simla on a good salary. the compound insolence of this amuse the strong man and a he have nothing to do for the moment he listen to the proposal of the audacious tarrion. 
you have i presume some special qualification besides the gift of self assertion for the claim you put forward. say the strong man. that sir say tarrion be for you to judge. then he begin for he have a good memory quote a few of the more important note in the paper slowly and one by one a a man drop chlorodyne into a glass. when he have reach the peremptory order and it be a peremptory order the strong man be trouble. 
tarrion wind up. and i fancy that special knowledge of this kind be at least a valuable for let u say a berth in the foreign office a the fact of be the nephew of a distinguish officer s wife. that hit the strong man hard for the last appointment to the foreign office have be by black favor and he know it. i ll see what i can do for you say the strong man. many thank say tarrion. then he leave and the strong man depart to see how the appointment be to be block. 
follow a pause of eleven day. with thunder and lightning and much telegraph. the appointment be not a very important one carry only between r. and r. a month. but a the viceroy say it be the principle of diplomatic secrecy that have to be maintain and it be more than likely that a boy so well supply with special information would be worth translate. so they translate him. they must have suspect him though he protest that his information be due to singular talent of his own. now much of this story include the after history of the miss envelope you must fill in for yourself because there be reason why it cannot be write. if you do not know about thing up above you win t understand how to fill it in and you will say it be impossible. 
what the viceroy say when tarrion be introduce to him be. so this be the boy who rusked the government of india be it. recollect sir that be not do twice. so he must have know something. 
what tarrion say when he saw his appointment gazette be. if mr. hauksbee be twenty year young and i her husband i should be viceroy of india in twenty year. 
what mr. hauksbee say when tarrion thank her almost with tear in his eye be first. i tell you so. and next to herself. what fool men be. 
the conversion of aurelian mcgoggin. 
ride with an idle whip ride with an unused heel. but once in a way there will come a day when the colt must be teach to feel the lash that fall and the curb that gall and the sting of the rowelled steel. life s handicap. 
this be not a tale exactly. it be a tract. and i be immensely proud of it. make a tract be a feat. 
every man be entitle to his own religious opinion. but no man least of all a junior ha a right to thrust these down other men s throat. the government send out weird civilian now and again. but mcgoggin be the queer export for a long time. he be clever brilliantly clever but his cleverness work the wrong way. instead of keep to the study of the vernacular he have read some book write by a man call comte i think and a man call spencer and a professor clifford. [you will find these book in the library. ] they deal with people s inside from the point of view of men who have no stomach. there be no order against his read them. but his mamma should have smack him. 
they ferment in his head and he come out to india with a rarefy religion over and above his work. it be not much of a creed. it only prove that men have no soul and there be no god and no hereafter and that you must worry along somehow for the good of humanity. 
one of it minor tenet seem to be that the one thing more sinful than give an order be obey it. at least that be what mcgoggin say. but i suspect he have misread his primer. 
i do not say a word against this creed. it be make up in town where there be nothing but machinery and asphalt and build all shut in by the fog. naturally a man grow to think that there be no one high than himself and that the metropolitan board of work make everything. but in this country where you really see humanity raw brown naked humanity with nothing between it and the blaze sky and only the use up over handle earth underfoot the notion somehow dy away and most folk come back to simple theory. life in india be not long enough to waste in prove that there be no one in particular at the head of affair. 
for this reason. the deputy be above the assistant the commissioner above the deputy the lieutenant governor above the commissioner and the viceroy above all four under the order of the secretary of state who be responsible to the empress. if the empress be not responsible to her maker if there be no maker for her to be responsible to the entire system of our administration must be wrong. which be manifestly impossible. at home men be to be excuse. they be stall up a good deal and get intellectually beany. when you take a gross beany horse to exercise he slaver and slobber over the bite till you can t see the horn. 
but the bite be there just the same. men do not get beany in india. the climate and the work be against play brick with word. 
if mcgoggin have keep his creed with the capital letter and the ending in ism to himself no one would have care. but his grandfather on both side have be wesleyan preacher and the preach strain come out in his mind. he want every one at the club to see that they have no soul too and to help him to eliminate his creator. a a good many men tell him he undoubtedly have no soul because he be so young but it do not follow that his senior be equally undeveloped. and whether there be another world or not a man still want to read his paper in this. but that be not the point that be not the point. aurelian use to say. then men throw sofa cushion at him and tell him to go to any particular place he might believe in. they christen him the blastoderm he say he come from a family of that name somewhere in the pre historic age and by insult and laughter strive to choke him dumb for he be an unmitigated nuisance at the club. besides be an offence to the old men. his deputy commissioner who be work on the frontier when aurelian be roll on a bed quilt tell him that for a clever boy aurelian be a very big idiot. and you know if he have go on with his work he would have be catch up to the secretariat in a few year. he be just the type that go there all head no physique and a hundred theory. not a soul be interest in mcgoggin s soul. he might have have two or none or somebody s else s. his business be to obey order and keep abreast of his file instead of devastate the club with ism. 
he work brilliantly. but he could not accept any order without try to good it. that be the fault of his creed. it make men too responsible and leave too much to their honor. you can sometimes ride an old horse in a halter. but never a colt. 
mcgoggin take more trouble over his case than any of the men of his year. he may have fancy that thirty page judgment on fifty rupee case both side perjure to the gullet advance the cause of humanity. at any rate he work too much and worry and fret over the rebuke he receive and lecture away on his ridiculous creed out of office till the doctor have to warn him that he be overdo it. no man can toil eighteen anna in the rupee in june without suffer. but mcgoggin be still intellectually beany and proud of himself and his power and he would take no hint. he work nine hour a day steadily. 
very well say the doctor you ll break down because you be over engined for your beam. mcgoggin be a little chap. 
one day the collapse come a dramatically a if it have be mean to embellish a tract. 
it be just before the rain. we be sit in the verandah in the dead hot close air gasp and pray that the black blue cloud would let down and bring the cool. very very far away there be a faint whisper which be the roar of the rain break over the river. one of the men hear it get out of his chair listen and say naturally enough. thank god. 
then the blastoderm turn in his place and say. why. i assure you it s only the result of perfectly natural cause atmospheric phenomenon of the simple kind. why you should therefore return thank to a be who never do exist who be only a figment. 
blastoderm grunt the man in the next chair dry up and throw me over the pioneer. we know all about your figment. the blastoderm reach out to the table take up one paper and jump a if something have sting him. then he hand the paper over. 
a i be say he go on slowly and with an effort due to perfectly natural cause perfectly natural cause. i mean. 
hi. blastoderm you ve give me the calcutta mercantile advertiser. 
the dust get up in little whorl while the treetop rock and the kite whistle. but no one be look at the come of the rain. 
we be all star at the blastoderm who have rise from his chair and be fight with his speech. then he say still more slowly. 
perfectly conceivable dictionary red oak amenable cause retain shuttlecock alone. 
blastoderm s drink say one man. but the blastoderm be not drink. he look at u in a daze sort of way and begin motion with his hand in the half light a the cloud close overhead. 
then with a scream. 
what be it. can t reserve attainable market obscure. 
but his speech seem to freeze in him and just a the lightning shoot two tongue that cut the whole sky into three piece and the rain fell in quiver sheet the blastoderm be strike dumb. he stand paw and champ like a hard hold horse and his eye be full of terror. 
the doctor come over in three minute and hear the story. it s aphasia he say. take him to his room. i know the smash would come. we carry the blastoderm across in the pour rain to his quarter and the doctor give him bromide of potassium to make him sleep. 
then the doctor come back to u and tell u that aphasia be like all the arrears of punjab head fall in a lump. and that only once before in the case of a sepoy have he meet with so complete a case. i myself have see mild aphasia in an overwork man but this sudden dumbness be uncanny though a the blastoderm himself might have say due to perfectly natural cause. 
he ll have to take leave after this say the doctor. he win t be fit for work for another three month. no. it isn t insanity or anything like it. it s only complete loss of control over the speech and memory. i fancy it will keep the blastoderm quiet though. 
two day late the blastoderm find his tongue again. the first question he ask be. what be it. the doctor enlighten him. 
but i can t understand it. say the blastoderm. i m quite sane. but i can t be sure of my mind it seem my own memory can i. 
go up into the hill for three month and don t think about it say the doctor. 
but i can t understand it repeat the blastoderm. it be my own mind and memory. 
i can t help it say the doctor. there be a good many thing you can t understand. and by the time you have put in my length of service you ll know exactly how much a man dare call his own in this world. 
the stroke cow the blastoderm. he could not understand it. he go into the hill in fear and tremble wonder whether he would be permit to reach the end of any sentence he begin. 
this give him a wholesome feel of mistrust. the legitimate explanation that he have be overwork himself fail to satisfy him. something have wipe his lip of speech a a mother wipe the milky lip of her child and he be afraid horribly afraid. 
so the club have rest when he return. and if ever you come across aurelian mcgoggin lay down the law on thing human he doesn t seem to know a much a he use to about thing divine put your forefinger on your lip for a moment and see what happen. 
don t blame me if he throw a glass at your head. 
a germ destroyer. 
pleasant it be for the little tin god when great jove nod. but little tin god make their little mistake in miss the hour when great jove wake. 
a a general rule it be inexpedient to meddle with question of state in a land where men be highly pay to work them out for you. 
this tale be a justifiable exception. 
once in every five year a you know we indent for a new viceroy. and each viceroy import with the rest of his baggage a private secretary who may or may not be the real viceroy just a fate ordain. fate look after the indian empire because it be so big and so helpless. 
there be a viceroy once who bring out with him a turbulent private secretary a hard man with a soft manner and a morbid passion for work. this secretary be call wonder john fennil wonder. the viceroy possess no name nothing but a string of county and two third of the alphabet after them. he say in confidence that he be the electro plat figurehead of a golden administration and he watch in a dreamy amuse way wonder s attempt to draw matter which be entirely outside his province into his own hand. when we be all cherubims together say his excellency once my dear good friend wonder will head the conspiracy for pluck out gabriel s tail feather or steal peter s key. then i shall report him. 
but though the viceroy do nothing to check wonder s officiousness other people say unpleasant thing. maybe the member of council begin it. but finally all simla agree that there be too much wonder and too little viceroy in that regime. wonder be always quote his excellency. it be his excellency this his excellency that in the opinion of his excellency and so on. the viceroy smile. but he do not heed. 
he say that so long a his old men squabble with his dear good wonder they might be induce to leave the immemorial east in peace. 
no wise man ha a policy say the viceroy. a policy be the blackmail levy on the fool by the unforeseen. i be not the former and i do not believe in the latter. 
i do not quite see what this mean unless it refer to an insurance policy. perhaps it be the viceroy s way of say. lie low. 
that season come up to simla one of these crazy people with only a single idea. these be the men who make thing move. but they be not nice to talk to. this man s name be mellish and he have live for fifteen year on land of his own in low bengal study cholera. he hold that cholera be a germ that propagate itself a it fly through a muggy atmosphere. and stick in the branch of tree like a wool flake. the germ could be render sterile he say by mellish s own invincible fumigatory a heavy violet black powder the result of fifteen year scientific investigation sir. 
inventor seem very much alike a a caste. they talk loudly especially about conspiracy of monopolist. they beat upon the table with their fist. and they secrete fragment of their invention about their person. 
mellish say that there be a medical ring at simla head by the surgeon general who be in league apparently with all the hospital assistant in the empire. i forget exactly how he prove it but it have something to do with skulk up to the hill. and what mellish want be the independent evidence of the viceroy steward of our most gracious majesty the queen sir. so mellish go up to simla with eighty four pound of fumigatory in his trunk to speak to the viceroy and to show him the merit of the invention. 
but it be easy to see a viceroy than to talk to him unless you chance to be a important a mellishe of madras. he be a six thousand rupee man so great that his daughter never marry. they contract alliance. he himself be not pay. he receive emolument and his journey about the country be tour of observation. his business be to stir up the people in madras with a long pole a you stir up stench in a pond and the people have to come up out of their comfortable old way and gasp. this be enlightenment and progress. isn t it fine. then they give mellishe statue and jasmine garland in the hope of get rid of him. 
mellishe come up to simla to confer with the viceroy. that be one of his perquisite. the viceroy know nothing of mellishe except that he be one of those middle class deity who seem necessary to the spiritual comfort of this paradise of the middle class and that in all probability he have suggest design found and endow all the public institution in madras. which prof that his excellency though dreamy have experience of the way of six thousand rupee men. 
mellishe s name be e. mellishe and mellish s be e. s. mellish and they be both stay at the same hotel and the fate that look after the indian empire ordain that wonder should blunder and drop the final e. that the chaprassi should help him and that the note which run. dear mr. mellish. can you set aside your other engagement and lunch with u at two tomorrow. his excellency ha an hour at your disposal then should be give to mellish with the fumigatory. he nearly weep with pride and delight and at the appoint hour canter off to peterhoff a big paper bag full of the fumigatory in his coat tail pocket. he have his chance and he mean to make the most of it. mellishe of madras have be so portentously solemn about his conference that wonder have arrange for a private tiffin no a. d. c. s no wonder no one but the viceroy who say plaintively that he fear be leave alone with unmuzzle autocrat like the great mellishe of madras. 
but his guest do not bore the viceroy. on the contrary he amuse him. mellish be nervously anxious to go straight to his fumigatory and talk at random until tiffin be over and his excellency ask him to smoke. the viceroy be please with mellish because he do not talk shop. 
a soon a the cheroot be light mellish speak like a man. begin with his cholera theory review his fifteen year scientific labor the machination of the simla ring and the excellence of his fumigatory while the viceroy watch him between half shut eye and think. evidently this be the wrong tiger. but it be an original animal. mellish s hair be stand on end with excitement and he stammer. he begin grope in his coat tail and before the viceroy know what be about to happen he have tip a bagful of his powder into the big silver ash tray. 
j j judge for yourself sir say mellish. y excellency shall judge for yourself. absolutely infallible on my honor. 
he plunge the light end of his cigar into the powder which begin to smoke like a volcano and send up fat greasy wreath of copper color smoke. in five second the room be fill with a most pungent and sicken stench a reek that take fierce hold of the trap of your windpipe and shut it. the powder then hiss and fizz and send out blue and green spark and the smoke rise till you could neither see nor breathe nor gasp. mellish however be use to it. 
nitrate of strontia he shout. baryta bone meal etcetera. thousand cubic foot smoke per cubic inch. not a germ could live not a germ y excellency. 
but his excellency have flee and be cough at the foot of the stair while all peterhoff hum like a hive. red lancer come in and the head chaprassi who speak english come in and mace bearer come in and lady run downstairs scream fire. for the smoke be drift through the house and ooze out of the window and belly along the verandah and wreathe and writhe across the garden. no one could enter the room where mellish be lecture on his fumigatory till that unspeakable powder have burn itself out. 
then an aide de camp who desire the v. c. rush through the roll cloud and haul mellish into the hall. the viceroy be prostrate with laughter and could only waggle his hand feebly at mellish who be shake a fresh bagful of powder at him. 
glorious. glorious. sob his excellency. not a germ a you justly observe could exist. i can swear it. a magnificent success. 
then he laugh till the tear come and wonder who have catch the real mellishe snort on the mall enter and be deeply shock at the scene. but the viceroy be delight because he saw that wonder would presently depart. mellish with the fumigatory be also please for he felt that he have smash the simla medical ring. 
few men could tell a story like his excellency when he take the trouble and the account of my dear good wonder s friend with the powder go the round of simla and flippant folk make wonder unhappy by their remark. 
but his excellency tell the tale once too often for wonder. a he mean to do. it be at a seepee picnic. wonder be sit just behind the viceroy. 
and i really think for a moment wind up his excellency that my dear good wonder have hire an assassin to clear his way to the throne. 
every one laugh. but there be a delicate subtinkle in the viceroy s tone which wonder understand. he find that his health be give way. and the viceroy allow him to go and present him with a flame character for use at home among big people. 
my fault entirely say his excellency in after season with a twinkle in his eye. my inconsistency must always have be distasteful to such a masterly man. 
kidnap. 
there be a tide in the affair of men which take any way you please be bad and strand them in forsake gut and creek no decent soul would think of visit. 
you cannot stop the tide. but now and then you may arrest some rash adventurer who h m will hardly thank you for your pain. vibart s morality. 
we be a high caste and enlighten race and infant marriage be very shock and the consequence be sometimes peculiar. but nevertheless the hindu notion which be the continental notion which be the aboriginal notion of arrange marriage irrespective of the personal inclination of the marry be sound. think for a minute and you will see that it must be so. unless of course you believe in affinity. in which case you have good not read this tale. how can a man who ha never marry. who cannot be trust to pick up at sight a moderately sound horse. whose head be hot and upset with vision of domestic felicity go about the choose of a wife. he cannot see straight or think straight if he try. and the same disadvantage exist in the case of a girl s fancy. but when mature marry and discreet people arrange a match between a boy and a girl they do it sensibly with a view to the future and the young couple live happily ever afterwards. a everybody know. 
properly speak government should establish a matrimonial department efficiently officer with a jury of matron a judge of the chief court a senior chaplain and an awful warn in the shape of a love match that ha go wrong chain to the tree in the courtyard. all marriage should be make through the department which might be subordinate to the educational department under the same penalty a that attach to the transfer of land without a stamp document. but government win t take suggestion. it pretend that it be too busy. however i will put my notion on record and explain the example that illustrate the theory. 
once upon a time there be a good young man a first class officer in his own department a man with a career before him and possibly a k. c. g. e. at the end of it. all his superior speak well of him because he know how to hold his tongue and his pen at the proper time. there be today only eleven men in india who posse this secret. and they have all with one exception attain great honor and enormous income. 
this good young man be quiet and self contain too old for his year by far. which always carry it own punishment. have a subaltern or a tea planter s assistant or anybody who enjoy life and ha no care for tomorrow do what he try to do not a soul would have care. but when peythroppe the estimable virtuous economical quiet hard work young peythroppe fell there be a flutter through five department. 
the manner of his fall be in this way. he meet a miss castries d castries it be originally but the family drop the d for administrative reason and he fell in love with her even more energetically than he work. understand clearly that there be not a breath of a word to be say against miss castries not a shadow of a breath. she be good and very lovely possess what innocent people at home call a spanish complexion with thick blue black hair grow low down on her forehead into a widow s peak and big violet eye under eyebrow a black and a straight a the border of a gazette extraordinary when a big man dy. but but but. well she be a very sweet girl and very pious but for many reason she be impossible. quite so. all good mamma know what impossible mean. it be obviously absurd that peythroppe should marry her. the little opal tint onyx at the base of her finger nail say this a plainly a print. further marriage with miss castries mean marriage with several other castries honorary lieutenant castries her papa mr. eulalie castries her mamma and all the ramification of the castries family on income range from r. to r. a month and their wife and connection again. 
it would have be cheap for peythroppe to have assault a commissioner with a dog whip or to have burn the record of a deputy commissioner s office than to have contract an alliance with the castries. it would have weight his after career le even under a government which never forget and never forgive. 
everybody saw this but peythroppe. he be go to marry miss castries he be be of age and draw a good income and woe betide the house that would not afterwards receive mr. virginie saulez peythroppe with the deference due to her husband s rank. 
that be peythroppe s ultimatum and any remonstrance drive him frantic. 
these sudden madness most afflict the sane men. there be a case once but i will tell you of that late on. you cannot account for the mania except under a theory directly contradict the one about the place wherein marriage be make. peythroppe be burningly anxious to put a millstone round his neck at the outset of his career and argument have not the least effect on him. he be go to marry miss castries and the business be his own business. 
he would thank you to keep your advice to yourself. with a man in this condition mere word only fix him in his purpose. of course he cannot see that marriage out here doe not concern the individual but the government he serf. 
do you remember mr. hauksbee the most wonderful woman in india. she save pluffles from mr. reiver win tarrion his appointment in the foreign office and be defeat in open field by mr. cusack bremmil. she hear of the lamentable condition of peythroppe and her brain strike out the plan that save him. she have the wisdom of the serpent the logical coherence of the man the fearlessness of the child and the triple intuition of the woman. never no never a long a a tonga bucket down the solon dip or the couple go a rid at the back of summer hill will there be such a genius a mr. hauksbee. she attend the consultation of three men on peythroppe s case. and she stand up with the lash of her rid whip between her lip and spake. 
three week late peythroppe din with the three men and the gazette of india come in. peythroppe find to his surprise that he have be gazette a month s leave. don t ask me how this be manage. i believe firmly that if mr. hauksbee give the order the whole great indian administration would stand on it head. 
the three men have also a month s leave each. peythroppe put the gazette down and say bad word. then there come from the compound the soft pad pad of camel thief camel the bikaneer breed that don t bubble and howl when they sit down and get up. 
after that i don t know what happen. this much be certain. 
peythroppe disappear vanish like smoke and the long foot rest chair in the house of the three men be break to splinter. also a bedstead depart from one of the bedroom. 
mr. hauksbee say that mr. peythroppe be shoot in rajputana with the three men. so we be compel to believe her. 
at the end of the month peythroppe be gazette twenty day extension of leave. but there be wrath and lamentation in the house of castries. the marriage day have be fix but the bridegroom never come. and the d silva pereiras and ducketts lift their voice and mock honorary lieutenant castries a one who have be basely impose upon. mr. hauksbee go to the wed and be much astonish when peythroppe do not appear. after seven week peythroppe and the three men return from rajputana. peythroppe be in hard tough condition rather white and more self contain than ever. 
one of the three men have a cut on his nose cause by the kick of a gun. twelve bore kick rather curiously. 
then come honorary lieutenant castries seek for the blood of his perfidious son in law to be. he say thing vulgar and impossible thing which show the raw rough ranker below the honorary and i fancy peythroppe s eye be open. anyhow he hold his peace till the end. when he speak briefly. honorary lieutenant castries ask for a peg before he go away to die or bring a suit for breach of promise. 
miss castries be a very good girl. she say that she would have no breach of promise suit. she say that if she be not a lady she be refine enough to know that lady keep their break heart to themselves. and a she rule her parent nothing happen. late on she marry a most respectable and gentlemanly person. he travel for an enterprising firm in calcutta and be all that a good husband should be. 
so peythroppe come to his right mind again and do much good work and be honor by all who know him. one of these day he will marry. but he will marry a sweet pink and white maiden on the government house list with a little money and some influential connection a every wise man should. and he will never all his life tell her what happen during the seven week of his shoot tour in rajputana. 
but just think how much trouble and expense for camel hire be not cheap and those bikaneer brute have to be feed like human might have be save by a properly conduct matrimonial department under the control of the director general of education but correspond direct with the viceroy. 
the arrest of lieutenant golightly. 
i ve forget the countersign sez e. 
oh. you ave ave you. sez i. 
but i m the colonel sez e. 
oh. you be be you. sez i. colonel nor no colonel you wait ere till i m relieve an the sarjint report on your ugly old mug. coop. sez i. 

an s help me soul twas the colonel after all. but i be a recruity then. 
the unedited autobiography of private ortheris. 
if there be one thing on which golightly pride himself more than another it be look like an officer and a gentleman. he say it be for the honor of the service that he attire himself so elaborately. but those who know him best say that it be just personal vanity. there be no harm about golightly not an ounce. 
he recognize a horse when he saw one and could do more than fill a cantle. he play a very fair game at billiards and be a sound man at the whist table. everyone like him. and nobody ever dream of see him handcuff on a station platform a a deserter. but this sad thing happen. 
he be go down from dalhousie at the end of his leave rid down. he have cut his leave a fine a he dare and want to come down in a hurry. 
it be fairly warm at dalhousie and know what to expect below he descend in a new khaki suit tight fit of a delicate olive green. a peacock blue tie white collar and a snowy white solah helmet. he pride himself on look neat even when he be rid post. he do look neat and he be so deeply concern about his appearance before he start that he quite forget to take anything but some small change with him. he leave all his note at the hotel. his servant have go down the road before him to be ready in wait at pathankote with a change of gear. that be what he call travel in light march order. he be proud of his faculty of organization what we call bundobust. 
twenty two mile out of dalhousie it begin to rain not a mere hill shower but a good tepid monsoonish downpour. golightly bustle on wish that he have bring an umbrella. the dust on the road turn into mud and the pony mire a good deal. so do golightly s khaki gaiter. but he keep on steadily and try to think how pleasant the coolth be. 
his next pony be rather a brute at start and golightly s hand be slippery with the rain contrive to get rid of golightly at a corner. he chase the animal catch it and go ahead briskly. 
the spill have not improve his clothe or his temper and he have lose one spur. he keep the other one employ. by the time that stage be end the pony have have a much exercise a he want and in spite of the rain golightly be sweat freely. at the end of another miserable half hour golightly find the world disappear before his eye in clammy pulp. the rain have turn the pith of his huge and snowy solah topee into an evil smell dough and it have close on his head like a half open mushroom. also the green line be begin to run. 
golightly do not say anything worth record here. he tear off and squeeze up a much of the brim a be in his eye and plough on. the back of the helmet be flap on his neck and the side stick to his ear but the leather band and green line keep thing roughly together so that the hat do not actually melt away where it flap. 
presently the pulp and the green stuff make a sort of slimy mildew which run over golightly in several direction down his back and bosom for choice. the khaki color run too it be really shockingly bad dye and section of golightly be brown and patch be violet and contour be ochre and streak be ruddy red and blotch be nearly white accord to the nature and peculiarity of the dye. when he take out his handkerchief to wipe his face and the green of the hat line and the purple stuff that have soak through on to his neck from the tie become thoroughly mix the effect be amaze. 
near dhar the rain stop and the even sun come out and dry him up slightly. it fix the color too. three mile from pathankote the last pony fell dead lame and golightly be force to walk. he push on into pathankote to find his servant. he do not know then that his khitmatgar have stop by the roadside to get drink and would come on the next day say that he have sprain his ankle. when he get into pathankote he couldn t find his servant his boot be stiff and ropy with mud and there be large quantity of dirt about his body. the blue tie have run a much a the khaki. so he take it off with the collar and throw it away. then he say something about servant generally and try to get a peg. he pay eight anna for the drink and this reveal to him that he have only six anna more in his pocket or in the world a he stand at that hour. 
he go to the station master to negotiate for a first class ticket to khasa where he be station. the book clerk say something to the station master the station master say something to the telegraph clerk and the three look at him with curiosity. they ask him to wait for half an hour while they telegraph to umritsar for authority. so he wait and four constable come and group themselves picturesquely round him. just a he be prepare to ask them to go away the station master say that he would give the sahib a ticket to umritsar if the sahib would kindly come inside the book office. golightly step inside and the next thing he know be that a constable be attach to each of his leg and arm while the station master be try to cram a mailbag over his head. 
there be a very fair scuffle all round the book office and golightly receive a nasty cut over his eye through fall against a table. but the constable be too much for him and they and the station master handcuff him securely. a soon a the mail bag be slip he begin express his opinion and the head constable say. without doubt this be the soldier englishman we require. listen to the abuse. then golightly ask the station master what the this and the that the proceeding mean. the station master tell him he be private john binkle of the regiment ft. in. fair hair gray eye and a dissipate appearance no mark on the body who have desert a fortnight ago. golightly begin explain at great length. and the more he explain the le the station master believe him. he say that no lieutenant could look such a ruffian a do golightly and that his instruction be to send his capture under proper escort to umritsar. golightly be feel very damp and uncomfortable and the language he use be not fit for publication even in an expurgate form. the four constable saw him safe to umritsar in an intermediate compartment and he spend the four hour journey in abuse them a fluently a his knowledge of the vernacular allow. 
at umritsar he be bundle out on the platform into the arm of a corporal and two men of the regiment. golightly draw himself up and try to carry off matter jauntily. he do not feel too jaunty in handcuff with four constable behind him and the blood from the cut on his forehead stiffen on his leave cheek. the corporal be not jocular either. golightly get a far a this be a very absurd mistake my men when the corporal tell him to stow his lip and come along. golightly do not want to come along. he desire to stop and explain. he explain very well indeed until the corporal cut in with. you a orficer. it s the like o you a bring disgrace on the like of u. bloom in fine orficer you be. i know your regiment. the rogue s march be the quickstep where you come from. you re a black shame to the service. 
golightly keep his temper and begin explain all over again from the begin. then he be march out of the rain into the refreshment room and tell not to make a qualify fool of himself. 
the men be go to run him up to fort govindghar. and run up be a performance almost a undignified a the frog march. 
golightly be nearly hysterical with rage and the chill and the mistake and the handcuff and the headache that the cut on his forehead have give him. he really lay himself out to express what be in his mind. when he have quite finish and his throat be feel dry one of the men say. i ve eard a few beggar in the click blind stiff and crack on a bite. but i ve never eard any one to touch this ere orficer. they be not angry with him. they rather admire him. they have some beer at the refreshment room and offer golightly some too because he have swear win erful. they ask him to tell them all about the adventure of private john binkle while he be loose on the countryside. and that make golightly wild than ever. if he have keep his wit about him he would have keep quiet until an officer come. but he attempt to run. 
now the butt of a martini in the small of your back hurt a great deal and rotten rain soak khaki tear easily when two men be jerk at your collar. 
golightly rise from the floor feel very sick and giddy with his shirt rip open all down his breast and nearly all down his back. 
he yield to his luck and at that point the down train from lahore come in carry one of golightly s major. 
this be the major s evidence in full. 
there be the sound of a scuffle in the second class refreshment room so i go in and saw the most villainous loafer that i ever set eye on. his boot and breech be plaster with mud and beer stain. he wear a muddy white dunghill sort of thing on his head and it hang down in slip on his shoulder which be a good deal scratch. he be half in and half out of a shirt a nearly in two piece a it could be and he be beg the guard to look at the name on the tail of it. a he have ruck the shirt all over his head i couldn t at first see who he be but i fancy that he be a man in the first stage of d. t. from the way he swear while he wrestle with his rag. when he turn round and i have make allowance for a lump a big a a pork pie over one eye and some green war paint on the face and some violet stripe round the neck i saw that it be golightly. he be very glad to see me say the major and he hop i would not tell the mess about it. i didn t but you can if you like now that golightly ha go home. 
golightly spend the great part of that summer in try to get the corporal and the two soldier try by court martial for arrest an officer and a gentleman. they be of course very sorry for their error. but the tale leak into the regimental canteen and thence run about the province. 
the house of suddhoo. 
a stone s throw out on either hand from that well order road we tread and all the world be wild and strange. churel and ghoul and djinn and sprite shall bear u company tonight for we have reach the old land wherein the power of darkness range. from the dusk to the dawn. 
the house of suddhoo near the taksali gate be two storied with four carve window of old brown wood and a flat roof. you may recognize it by five red hand print arrange like the five of diamond on the whitewash between the upper window. bhagwan das the bunnia and a man who say he get his live by seal cut live in the low story with a troop of wife servant friend and retainer. the two upper room use to be occupy by janoo and azizun and a little black and tan terrier that be steal from an englishman s house and give to janoo by a soldier. today only janoo life in the upper room. suddhoo sleep on the roof generally except when he sleep in the street. he use to go to peshawar in the cold weather to visit his son who sell curiosity near the edwardes gate and then he sleep under a real mud roof. 
suddhoo be a great friend of mine because his cousin have a son who secure thank to my recommendation the post of head messenger to a big firm in the station. suddhoo say that god will make me a lieutenant governor one of these day. i daresay his prophecy will come true. he be very very old with white hair and no teeth worth show and he ha outlive his wit outlive nearly everything except his fondness for his son at peshawar. janoo and azizun be kashmiri lady of the city and theirs be an ancient and more or le honorable profession. but azizun ha since marry a medical student from the north west and ha settle down to a most respectable life somewhere near bareilly. bhagwan das be an extortionate and an adulterator. he be very rich. the man who be suppose to get his live by seal cut pretend to be very poor. 
this let you know a much a be necessary of the four principal tenant in the house of suddhoo. then there be me of course. but i be only the chorus that come in at the end to explain thing. so i do not count. 
suddhoo be not clever. the man who pretend to cut seal be the clever of them all bhagwan das only know how to lie except janoo. she be also beautiful but that be her own affair. 
suddhoo s son at peshawar be attack by pleurisy and old suddhoo be trouble. the seal cutter man hear of suddhoo s anxiety and make capital out of it. he be abreast of the time. he get a friend in peshawar to telegraph daily account of the son s health. 
and here the story begin. 
suddhoo s cousin s son tell me one even that suddhoo want to see me. that he be too old and feeble to come personally and that i should be confer an everlasting honor on the house of suddhoo if i go to him. i go. but i think see how well off suddhoo be then that he might have send something good than an ekka which jolt fearfully to haul out a future lieutenant governor to the city on a muggy april even. the ekka do not run quickly. 
it be full dark when we pull up opposite the door of ranjit singh s tomb near the main gate of the fort. here be suddhoo and he say that by reason of my condescension it be absolutely certain that i should become a lieutenant governor while my hair be yet black. then we talk about the weather and the state of my health and the wheat crop for fifteen minute in the huzuri bagh under the star. 
suddhoo come to the point at last. he say that janoo have tell him that there be an order of the sirkar against magic because it be fear that magic might one day kill the empress of india. i didn t know anything about the state of the law. but i fancy that something interest be go to happen. i say that so far from magic be discourage by the government it be highly commend. 
the great official of the state practice it themselves. if the financial statement isn t magic i don t know what be. then to encourage him further i say that if there be any jadoo afoot i have not the least objection to give it my countenance and sanction and to see that it be clean jadoo white magic a distinguish from the unclean jadoo which kill folk. it take a long time before suddhoo admit that this be just what he have ask me to come for. then he tell me in jerk and quaver that the man who say he cut seal be a sorcerer of the clean kind. that every day he give suddhoo news of the sick son in peshawar more quickly than the lightning could fly and that this news be always corroborate by the letter. further that he have tell suddhoo how a great danger be threaten his son which could be remove by clean jadoo. and of course heavy payment. i begin to see how the land lay and tell suddhoo that i also understand a little jadoo in the western line and would go to his house to see that everything be do decently and in order. we set off together. and on the way suddhoo tell me he have pay the seal cutter between one hundred and two hundred rupee already. and the jadoo of that night would cost two hundred more. which be cheap he say consider the greatness of his son s danger. but i do not think he mean it. 
the light be all cloak in the front of the house when we arrive. i could hear awful noise from behind the seal cutter s shop front a if some one be groan his soul out. suddhoo shake all over and while we grope our way upstairs tell me that the jadoo have begin. janoo and azizun meet u at the stair head and tell u that the jadoo work be come off in their room because there be more space there. janoo be a lady of a freethinking turn of mind. she whisper that the jadoo be an invention to get money out of suddhoo and that the seal cutter would go to a hot place when he die. suddhoo be nearly cry with fear and old age. he keep walk up and down the room in the half light repeat his son s name over and over again and ask azizun if the seal cutter ought not to make a reduction in the case of his own landlord. 
janoo pull me over to the shadow in the recess of the carve bow window. the board be up and the room be only light by one tiny lamp. there be no chance of my be see if i stay still. 
presently the groan below cease and we hear step on the staircase. that be the seal cutter. he stop outside the door a the terrier bark and azizun fumble at the chain and he tell suddhoo to blow out the lamp. this leave the place in jet darkness except for the red glow from the two huqas that belong to janoo and azizun. the seal cutter come in and i hear suddhoo throw himself down on the floor and groan. azizun catch her breath and janoo back to one of the bed with a shudder. there be a clink of something metallic and then shoot up a pale blue green flame near the grind. the light be just enough to show azizun press against one corner of the room with the terrier between her knee. janoo with her hand clasp lean forward a she sit on the bed. suddhoo face down quiver and the seal cutter. 
i hope i may never see another man like that seal cutter. he be strip to the waist with a wreath of white jasmine a thick a my wrist round his forehead a salmon color loin cloth round his middle and a steel bangle on each ankle. this be not awe inspire. it be the face of the man that turn me cold. it be blue gray in the first place. in the second the eye be roll back till you could only see the white of them. and in the third the face be the face of a demon a ghoul anything you please except of the sleek oily old ruffian who sit in the day time over his turn lathe downstairs. he be lie on his stomach with his arm turn and cross behind him a if he have be throw down pinion. his head and neck be the only part of him off the floor. they be nearly at right angle to the body like the head of a cobra at spring. it be ghastly. in the centre of the room on the bare earth floor stand a big deep brass basin with a pale blue green light float in the centre like a night light. round that basin the man on the floor wriggle himself three time. how he do it i do not know. i could see the muscle ripple along his spine and fall smooth again. but i could not see any other motion. 
the head seem the only thing alive about him except that slow curl and uncurl of the labor back muscle. janoo from the bed be breathe seventy to the minute. azizun hold her hand before her eye. and old suddhoo finger at the dirt that have get into his white beard be cry to himself. the horror of it be that the creep crawly thing make no sound only crawl. and remember this last for ten minute while the terrier whine and azizun shudder and janoo gasp and suddhoo cry. 
i felt the hair lift at the back of my head and my heart thump like a thermantidote paddle. luckily the seal cutter betray himself by his most impressive trick and make me calm again. after he have finish that unspeakable triple crawl he stretch his head away from the floor a high a he could and send out a jet of fire from his nostril. now i know how fire spout be do i can do it myself so i felt at ease. the business be a fraud. if he have only keep to that crawl without try to raise the effect goodness know what i might not have think. both the girl shriek at the jet of fire and the head drop chin down on the floor with a thud. the whole body lie then like a corpse with it arm truss. 
there be a pause of five full minute after this and the blue green flame die down. janoo stoop to settle one of her anklet while azizun turn her face to the wall and take the terrier in her arm. suddhoo put out an arm mechanically to janoo s huqa and she slide it across the floor with her foot. directly above the body and on the wall be a couple of flame portrait in stamp paper frame of the queen and the prince of wale. they look down on the performance and to my think seem to heighten the grotesqueness of it all. 
just when the silence be get unendurable the body turn over and roll away from the basin to the side of the room where it lay stomach up. there be a faint plop from the basin exactly like the noise a fish make when it take a fly and the green light in the centre revive. 
i look at the basin and saw bob in the water the dry shrivel black head of a native baby open eye open mouth and shave scalp. it be bad be so very sudden than the crawl exhibition. we have no time to say anything before it begin to speak. 
read poe s account of the voice that come from the mesmerize die man and you will realize le than one half of the horror of that head s voice. 
there be an interval of a second or two between each word and a sort of ring ring ring in the note of the voice like the timbre of a bell. it peal slowly a if talk to itself for several minute before i get rid of my cold sweat. then the bless solution strike me. i look at the body lie near the doorway and saw just where the hollow of the throat join on the shoulder a muscle that have nothing to do with any man s regular breathe twitch away steadily. the whole thing be a careful reproduction of the egyptian teraphin that one read about sometimes and the voice be a clever and a appal a piece of ventriloquism a one could wish to hear. all this time the head be lip lip lap against the side of the basin and speak. it tell suddhoo on his face again whine of his son s illness and of the state of the illness up to the even of that very night. i always shall respect the seal cutter for keep so faithfully to the time of the peshawar telegram. it go on to say that skilled doctor be night and day watch over the man s life. and that he would eventually recover if the fee to the potent sorcerer whose servant be the head in the basin be double. 
here the mistake from the artistic point of view come in. to ask for twice your stipulate fee in a voice that lazarus might have use when he rise from the dead be absurd. janoo who be really a woman of masculine intellect saw this a quickly a i do. i hear her say asli nahin. fareib. scornfully under her breath. and just a she say so the light in the basin die out the head stop talk and we hear the room door creak on it hinge. then janoo strike a match light the lamp and we saw that head basin and seal cutter be go. suddhoo be wring his hand and explain to any one who care to listen that if his chance of eternal salvation depend on it he could not raise another two hundred rupee. azizun be nearly in hysteric in the corner. while janoo sit down composedly on one of the bed to discus the probability of the whole thing be a bunao or make up. 
i explain a much a i know of the seal cutter s way of jadoo. but her argument be much more simple. the magic that be always demand gift be no true magic say she. my mother tell me that the only potent love spell be those which be tell you for love. this seal cutter man be a liar and a devil. i dare not tell do anything or get anything do because i be in debt to bhagwan das the bunnia for two gold ring and a heavy anklet. i must get my food from his shop. the seal cutter be the friend of bhagwan das and he would poison my food. a fool s jadoo ha be go on for ten day and ha cost suddhoo many rupee each night. the seal cutter use black hen and lemon and mantra before. he never show u anything like this till tonight. azizun be a fool and will be a purdah nashin soon. suddhoo ha lose his strength and his wit. see now. i have hop to get from suddhoo many rupee while he live and many more after his death. and behold he be spend everything on that offspring of a devil and a she as the seal cutter. 
here i say. but what induce suddhoo to drag me into the business. of course i can speak to the seal cutter and he shall refund. the whole thing be child s talk shame and senseless. 
suddhoo be an old child say janoo. he ha live on the roof these seventy year and be a senseless a a milch goat. he bring you here to assure himself that he be not break any law of the sirkar whose salt he eat many year ago. he worship the dust off the foot of the seal cutter and that cow devourer ha forbid him to go and see his son. what doe suddhoo know of your law or the lightning post. i have to watch his money go day by day to that lie beast below. 
janoo stamp her foot on the floor and nearly cry with vexation. while suddhoo be whimper under a blanket in the corner and azizun be try to guide the pipe stem to his foolish old mouth. 
now the case stand thus. unthinkingly i have lay myself open to the charge of aid and abet the seal cutter in obtain money under false pretence which be forbid by section of the indian penal code. i be helpless in the matter for these reason i cannot inform the police. what witness would support my statement. janoo refuse flatly azizun be a veil woman somewhere near bareilly lose in this big india of ours. i cannot again take the law into my own hand and speak to the seal cutter. for certain be i that not only would suddhoo disbelieve me but this step would end in the poison of janoo who be bind hand and foot by her debt to the bunnia. suddhoo be an old dotard. and whenever we meet mumble my idiotic joke that the sirkar rather patronize the black art than otherwise. his son be well now. but suddhoo be completely under the influence of the seal cutter by whose advice he regulate the affair of his life. janoo watch daily the money that she hop to wheedle out of suddhoo take by the seal cutter and become daily more furious and sullen. 
she will never tell because she dare not. but unless something happen to prevent her i be afraid that the seal cutter will die of cholera the white arsenic kind about the middle of may. and thus i shall have to be privy to a murder in the house of suddhoo. 
his wed wife. 
cry murder. in the market place and each will turn upon his neighbor anxious eye that ask. art thou the man. we hunt cain some century ago across the world that breed the fear our own misdeed maintain today. vibart s morality. 
shakespeare say something about worm or it may be giant or beetle turn if you tread on them too severely. the safe plan be never to tread on a worm not even on the last new subaltern from home with his button hardly out of their tissue paper and the red of sappy english beef in his cheek. this be the story of the worm that turn. for the sake of brevity we will call henry augustus ramsay faizanne the worm although he really be an exceedingly pretty boy without a hair on his face and with a waist like a girl s when he come out to the second shikarris and be make unhappy in several way. the shikarris be a high caste regiment and you must be able to do thing well play a banjo or ride more than a little or sing or act to get on with them. 
the worm do nothing except fall off his pony and knock chip out of gate post with his trap. even that become monotonous after a time. he object to whist cut the cloth at billiards sing out of tune keep very much to himself and write to his mamma and sister at home. four of these five thing be vice which the shikarris object to and set themselves to eradicate. every one know how subaltern be by brother subaltern soften and not permit to be ferocious. it be good and wholesome and doe no one any harm unless temper be lose. and then there be trouble. there be a man once but that be another story. 
the shikarris shikarred the worm very much and he bore everything without wink. he be so good and so anxious to learn and flush so pink that his education be cut short and he be leave to his own device by every one except the senior subaltern who continue to make life a burden to the worm. the senior subaltern mean no harm. but his chaff be coarse and he didn t quite understand where to stop. he have be wait too long for his company. and that always sour a man. also he be in love which make him bad. 
one day after he have borrow the worm s trap for a lady who never exist have use it himself all the afternoon have send a note to the worm purport to come from the lady and be tell the mess all about it the worm rise in his place and say in his quiet ladylike voice. that be a very pretty sell. but i ll lay you a month s pay to a month s pay when you get your step that i work a sell on you that you ll remember for the rest of your day and the regiment after you when you re dead or break. the worm wasn t angry in the least and the rest of the mess shout. then the senior subaltern look at the worm from the boot upwards and down again and say do baby. the worm take the rest of the mess to witness that the bet have be take and retire into a book with a sweet smile. 
two month pass and the senior subaltern still educate the worm who begin to move about a little more a the hot weather come on. i have say that the senior subaltern be in love. the curious thing be that a girl be in love with the senior subaltern. though the colonel say awful thing and the major snort and marry captain look unutterable wisdom and the junior scoff those two be engage. 
the senior subaltern be so please with get his company and his acceptance at the same time that he forget to bother the worm. the girl be a pretty girl and have money of her own. she doe not come into this story at all. 
one night at the begin of the hot weather all the mess except the worm who have go to his own room to write home letter be sit on the platform outside the mess house. the band have finish play but no one want to go in. and the captain wife be there also. the folly of a man in love be unlimited. 
the senior subaltern have be hold forth on the merit of the girl he be engage to and the lady be purr approval while the men yawn when there be a rustle of skirt in the dark and a tire faint voice lift itself. 
where s my husband. 
i do not wish in the least to reflect on the morality of the shikarris. but it be on record that four men jump up a if they have be shoot. three of them be marry men. perhaps they be afraid that their wife have come from home unbeknownst. the fourth say that he have act on the impulse of the moment. he explain this afterwards. 
then the voice cry. oh lionel. lionel be the senior subaltern s name. a woman come into the little circle of light by the candle on the peg table stretch out her hand to the dark where the senior subaltern be and sob. we rise to our foot feel that thing be go to happen and ready to believe the bad. in this bad small world of ours one know so little of the life of the next man which after all be entirely his own concern that one be not surprise when a crash come. anything might turn up any day for any one. perhaps the senior subaltern have be trap in his youth. men be cripple that way occasionally. we didn t know. we want to hear. and the captain wife be a anxious a we. if he have be trap he be to be excuse. for the woman from nowhere in the dusty shoe and gray travel dress be very lovely with black hair and great eye full of tear. she be tall with a fine figure and her voice have a run sob in it pitiful to hear. a soon a the senior subaltern stand up she throw her arm round his neck and call him my darling and say she could not bear wait alone in england and his letter be so short and cold and she be his to the end of the world and would he forgive her. this do not sound quite like a lady s way of speak. it be too demonstrative. 
thing seem black indeed and the captain wife peer under their eyebrow at the senior subaltern and the colonel s face set like the day of judgment frame in gray bristle and no one speak for a while. 
next the colonel say very shortly. well sir. and the woman sob afresh. the senior subaltern be half choke with the arm round his neck but he gasp out. it s a d d lie. i never have a wife in my life. don t swear say the colonel. come into the mess. we must sift this clear somehow and he sigh to himself for he believe in his shikarris do the colonel. 
we troop into the ante room under the full light and there we saw how beautiful the woman be. she stand up in the middle of u all sometimes choke with cry then hard and proud and then hold out her arm to the senior subaltern. it be like the fourth act of a tragedy. she tell u how the senior subaltern have marry her when he be home on leave eighteen month before. and she seem to know all that we know and more too of his people and his past life. he be white and ashy gray try now and again to break into the torrent of her word. and we note how lovely she be and what a criminal he look esteem him a beast of the bad kind. we felt sorry for him though. 
i shall never forget the indictment of the senior subaltern by his wife. nor will he. it be so sudden rush out of the dark unannounced into our dull life. the captain wife stand back. but their eye be alight and you could see that they have already convict and sentence the senior subaltern. the colonel seem five year old. one major be shade his eye with his hand and watch the woman from underneath it. another be chew his moustache and smile quietly a if he be witness a play. full in the open space in the centre by the whist table the senior subaltern s terrier be hunt for flea. i remember all this a clearly a though a photograph be in my hand. i remember the look of horror on the senior subaltern s face. it be rather like see a man hang. but much more interest. finally the woman wind up by say that the senior subaltern carry a double f. m. in tattoo on his leave shoulder. we all know that and to our innocent mind it seem to clinch the matter. but one of the bachelor major say very politely. i presume that your marriage certificate would be more to the purpose. 
that rouse the woman. she stand up and sneer at the senior subaltern for a cur and abuse the major and the colonel and all the rest. then she weep and then she pull a paper from her breast say imperially. take that. and let my husband my lawfully wed husband read it aloud if he dare. 
there be a hush and the men look into each other s eye a the senior subaltern come forward in a daze and dizzy way and take the paper. we be wonder a we star whether there be anything against any one of u that might turn up late on. the senior subaltern s throat be dry. but a he run his eye over the paper he break out into a hoarse cackle of relief and say to the woman. you young blackguard. 
but the woman have flee through a door and on the paper be write. this be to certify that i the worm have pay in full my debt to the senior subaltern and further that the senior subaltern be my debtor by agreement on the d of february a by the mess attest to the extent of one month s captain s pay in the lawful currency of the india empire. then a deputation set off for the worm s quarter and find him betwixt and between unlace his stay with the hat wig serge dress etc. on the bed. he come over a he be and the shikarris shout till the gunner mess send over to know if they might have a share of the fun. i think we be all except the colonel and the senior subaltern a little disappoint that the scandal have come to nothing. but that be human nature. there could be no two word about the worm s act. it lean a near to a nasty tragedy a anything this side of a joke can. when most of the subaltern sit upon him with sofa cushion to find out why he have not say that act be his strong point he answer very quietly. i don t think you ever ask me. i use to act at home with my sister. but no act with girl could account for the worm s display that night. personally i think it be in bad taste. 
besides be dangerous. there be no sort of use in play with fire even for fun. 
the shikarris make him president of the regimental dramatic club. and when the senior subaltern pay up his debt which he do at once the worm sink the money in scenery and dress. he be a good worm. and the shikarris be proud of him. the only drawback be that he ha be christen mr. senior subaltern. and a there be now two mr. senior subaltern in the station this be sometimes confuse to stranger. 
late on i will tell you of a case something like this but with all the jest leave out and nothing in it but real trouble. 
the break link handicap. 
while the snaffle hold or the long neck sting while the big beam tilt or the last bell ring while horse be horse to train and to race then woman and wine take a second place for me for me while a short ten three ha a field to squander or fence to face. song of the g. r. 
there be more way of run a horse to suit your book than pull his head off in the straight. some men forget this. 
understand clearly that all race be rotten a everything connect with lose money must be. out here in addition to it inherent rottenness it ha the merit of be two third sham. look pretty on paper only. every one know every one else far too well for business purpose. how on earth can you rack and harry and post a man for his lose when you be fond of his wife and live in the same station with him. he say on the monday follow i can t settle just yet. you say all right old man and think your self lucky if you pull off nine hundred out of a two thousand rupee debt. any way you look at it indian race be immoral and expensively immoral. which be much bad. if a man want your money he ought to ask for it or send round a subscription list instead of juggle about the country with an australian larrikin. a brumby with a much breed a the boy. a brace of chumars in gold lace cap. three or four ekka pony with hog mane and a switch tail demirep of a mare call arab because she ha a kink in her flag. race lead to the shroff quick than anything else. but if you have no conscience and no sentiment and good hand and some knowledge of pace and ten year experience of horse and several thousand rupee a month i believe that you can occasionally contrive to pay your shoe bill. 
do you ever know shackle b. w. g. coarse loose mule like ear barrel a long a a gate post tough a a telegraph wire and the queer brute that ever look through a bridle. he be of no brand be one of an ear nick mob take into the bucephalus at l. s. a head to make up freight and sell raw and out of condition at calcutta for r. people who lose money on him call him a brumby. but if ever any horse have harpoon s shoulder and the gin s temper shackle be that horse. two mile be his own particular distance. he train himself run himself and ride himself. and if his jockey insult him by give him hint he shut up at once and buck the boy off. he object to dictation. two or three of his owner do not understand this and lose money in consequence. at last he be buy by a man who discover that if a race be to be win shackle and shackle only would win it in his own way so long a his jockey sit still. 
this man have a rid boy call brunt a lad from perth west australia and he teach brunt with a trainer s whip the hard thing a jock can learn to sit still to sit still and to keep on sit still. when brunt fairly grasp this truth shackle devastate the country. no weight could stop him at his own distance. and the fame of shackle spread from ajmir in the south to chedputter in the north. there be no horse like shackle so long a he be allow to do his work in his own way. but he be beat in the end. and the story of his fall be enough to make angel weep. 
at the low end of the chedputter racecourse just before the turn into the straight the track pass close to a couple of old brick mound enclose a funnel shape hollow. the big end of the funnel be not six foot from the railing on the off side. the astound peculiarity of the course be that if you stand at one particular place about half a mile away inside the course and speak at an ordinary pitch your voice just hit the funnel of the brick mound and make a curious whine echo there. a man discover this one morning by accident while out train with a friend. he mark the place to stand and speak from with a couple of brick and he keep his knowledge to himself. every peculiarity of a course be worth remember in a country where rat play the mischief with the elephant litter and steward build jump to suit their own stable. 
this man run a very fairish country breed a long rack high mare with the temper of a fiend and the pace of an airy wander seraph a drifty glidy stretch. the mare be a a delicate tribute to mr. reiver call the lady regula baddun or for short regula baddun. 
shackle jockey brunt be a quiet well behave boy but his nerve have be shake. he begin his career by rid jump race in melbourne where a few steward want lynch and be one of the jockey who come through the awful butchery perhaps you will recollect it of the maribyrnong plate. the wall be colonial rampart log of jarrak spike into masonry with wing a strong a church buttress. once in his stride a horse have to jump or fall. he couldn t run out. in the maribyrnong plate twelve horse be jam at the second wall. red hat lead fell this side and throw out the glen and the ruck come up behind and the space between wing and wing be one struggle scream kick shamble. four jockey be take out dead. three be very badly hurt and brunt be among the three. he tell the story of the maribyrnong plate sometimes. and when he describe how whalley on red hat say a the mare fell under him. god ha mercy i m do for. and how next instant sithee there and white otter have crush the life out of poor whalley and the dust hide a small hell of men and horse no one marvel that brunt have drop jump race and australia together. regula baddun s owner know that story by heart. brunt never vary it in the tell. he have no education. 
shackle come to the chedputter autumn race one year and his owner walk about insult the sportsman of chedputter generally till they go to the honorary secretary in a body and say. appoint handicapper and arrange a race which shall break shackle and humble the pride of his owner. the district rise against shackle and send up of their best. ousel who be suppose to be able to do his mile in. petard the stud breed train by a cavalry regiment who know how to train. gringalet the ewe lamb of the th. bobolink the pride of peshawar. and many others. 
they call that race the break link handicap because it be to smash shackle. and the handicapper pile on the weight and the fund give eight hundred rupee and the distance be round the course for all horse. shackle owner say. you can arrange the race with regard to shackle only. so long a you don t bury him under weight cloth i don t mind. regula baddun s owner say. i throw in my mare to fret ousel. six furlong be regula s distance and she will then lie down and die. so also will ousel for his jockey doesn t understand a wait race. now this be a lie for regula have be in work for two month at dehra and her chance be good always suppose that shackle break a blood vessel or brunt move on him. 
the plunge in the lottery be fine. they fill eight thousand rupee lottery on the break link handicap and the account in the pioneer say that favoritism be divide. in plain english the various contingent be wild on their respective horse. for the handicapper have do their work well. the honorary secretary shout himself hoarse through the din. and the smoke of the cheroot be like the smoke and the rattle of the dice box like the rattle of small arm fire. 
ten horse start very level and regula baddun s owner canter out on his back to a place inside the circle of the course where two brick have be throw. he face towards the brick mound at the low end of the course and wait. 
the story of the run be in the pioneer. at the end of the first mile shackle creep out of the ruck well on the outside ready to get round the turn lay hold of the bite and spin up the straight before the others know he have get away. brunt be sit still perfectly happy listen to the drum drum drum of the hoof behind and know that in about twenty stride shackle would draw one deep breath and go up the last half mile like the fly dutchman. a shackle go short to take the turn and come abreast of the brick mound brunt hear above the noise of the wind in his ear a whine wail voice on the offside say. god ha mercy i m do for. in one stride brunt saw the whole seethe smash of the maribyrnong plate before him start in his saddle and give a yell of terror. the start bring the heel into shackle side and the scream hurt shackle feeling. he couldn t stop dead. but he put out his foot and slide along for fifty yard and then very gravely and judicially buck off brunt a shake terror stricken lump while regula baddun make a neck and neck race with bobolink up the straight and win by a short head petard a bad third. shackle owner in the stand try to think that his field glass have go wrong. regula baddun s owner wait by the two brick give one deep sigh of relief and canter back to the stand. he have win in lottery and bet about fifteen thousand. 
it be a break link handicap with a vengeance. it break nearly all the men concern and nearly break the heart of shackle owner. 
he go down to interview brunt. the boy lay livid and gasp with fright where he have tumble off. the sin of lose the race never seem to strike him. all he know be that whalley have call him that the call be a warn. and be he cut in two for it he would never get up again. his nerve have go altogether and he only ask his master to give him a good thrash and let him go. he be fit for nothing he say. he get his dismissal and creep up to the paddock white a chalk with blue lip his knee give way under him. people say nasty thing in the paddock. but brunt never heed. he change into tweed take his stick and go down the road still shake with fright and mutter over and over again. god ha mercy i m do for. to the best of my knowledge and belief he speak the truth. 
so now you know how the break link handicap be run and win. of course you don t believe it. you would credit anything about russia s design on india or the recommendation of the currency commission. but a little bite of sober fact be more than you can stand. 
beyond the pale. 
love heed not caste nor sleep a break bed. i go in search of love and lose myself. hindu proverb. 
a man should whatever happen keep to his own caste race and breed. let the white go to the white and the black to the black. 
then whatever trouble fall be in the ordinary course of thing neither sudden alien nor unexpected. 
this be the story of a man who wilfully step beyond the safe limit of decent every day society and pay for it heavily. 
he know too much in the first instance. and he saw too much in the second. he take too deep an interest in native life. but he will never do so again. 
deep away in the heart of the city behind jitha megji s bustee lie amir nath s gully which end in a dead wall pierce by one grate window. at the head of the gully be a big cow byre and the wall on either side of the gully be without window. neither suchet singh nor gaur chand approve of their woman folk look into the world. if durga charan have be of their opinion he would have be a happy man today and little bisesa would have be able to knead her own bread. her room look out through the grate window into the narrow dark gully where the sun never come and where the buffalo wallow in the blue slime. she be a widow about fifteen year old and she pray the god day and night to send her a lover. for she do not approve of live alone. 
one day the man trejago his name be come into amir nath s gully on an aimless wander. and after he have pass the buffalo stumble over a big heap of cattle food. 
then he saw that the gully end in a trap and hear a little laugh from behind the grate window. it be a pretty little laugh and trejago know that for all practical purpose the old arabian night be good guide go forward to the window and whisper that verse of the love song of har dyal which begin. 
can a man stand upright in the face of the naked sun. or a lover in the presence of his beloved. if my foot fail me o heart of my heart be i to blame be blind by the glimpse of your beauty. 
there come the faint tchinks of a woman s bracelet from behind the grate and a little voice go on with the song at the fifth verse. 
ala. ala. can the moon tell the lotus of her love when the gate of heaven be shut and the cloud gather for the rain. they have take my beloved and drive her with the pack horse to the north. there be iron chain on the foot that be set on my heart. call to the bowman to make ready. 
the voice stop suddenly and trejago walk out of amir nath s gully wonder who in the world could have cap the love song of har dyal so neatly. 
next morning a he be drive to the office an old woman throw a packet into his dog cart. in the packet be the half of a break glass bangle one flower of the blood red dhak a pinch of bhusa or cattle food and eleven cardamom. that packet be a letter not a clumsy compromise letter but an innocent unintelligible lover s epistle. 
trejago know far too much about these thing a i have say. no englishman should be able to translate object letter. but trejago spread all the trifle on the lid of his office box and begin to puzzle them out. 
a break glass bangle stand for a hindu widow all india over. because when her husband dy a woman s bracelet be break on her wrist. trejago saw the mean of the little bite of the glass. 
the flower of the dhak mean diversely desire come write or danger accord to the other thing with it. one cardamom mean jealousy. but when any article be duplicate in an object letter it lose it symbolic mean and stand merely for one of a number indicate time or if incense curd or saffron be send also place. the message run then. a widow dhak flower and bhusa at eleven o clock. the pinch of bhusa enlighten trejago. he saw this kind of letter leaf much to instinctive knowledge that the bhusa refer to the big heap of cattle food over which he have fall in amir nath s gully and that the message must come from the person behind the grate. she be a widow. so the message run then. a widow in the gully in which be the heap of bhusa desire you to come at eleven o clock. 
trejago throw all the rubbish into the fireplace and laugh. he know that men in the east do not make love under window at eleven in the forenoon nor do woman fix appointment a week in advance. 
so he go that very night at eleven into amir nath s gully clothe in a boorka which cloak a man a well a a woman. directly the gong in the city make the hour the little voice behind the grate take up the love song of har dyal at the verse where the panthan girl call upon har dyal to return. the song be really pretty in the vernacular. in english you miss the wail of it. it run something like this. 
alone upon the housetop to the north i turn and watch the lightning in the sky the glamour of thy footstep in the north come back to me beloved or i die. 
below my foot the still bazar be lay far far below the weary camel lie the camel and the captive of thy raid come back to me beloved or i die. 
my father s wife be old and harsh with year and drudge of all my father s house be i. my bread be sorrow and my drink be tear come back to me beloved or i die. 
a the song stop trejago step up under the grate and whisper. i be here. 
bisesa be good to look upon. 
that night be the begin of many strange thing and of a double life so wild that trejago today sometimes wonder if it be not all a dream. bisesa or her old handmaiden who have throw the object letter have detach the heavy grate from the brick work of the wall. so that the window slide inside leave only a square of raw masonry into which an active man might climb. 
in the day time trejago drive through his routine of office work or put on his call clothe and call on the lady of the station. wonder how long they would know him if they know of poor little bisesa. at night when all the city be still come the walk under the evil smell boorka the patrol through jitha megji s bustee the quick turn into amir nath s gully between the sleep cattle and the dead wall and then last of all bisesa and the deep even breathe of the old woman who sleep outside the door of the bare little room that durga charan allot to his sister s daughter. who or what durga charan be trejago never inquire. and why in the world he be not discover and knife never occur to him till his madness be over and bisesa. but this come late. 
bisesa be an endless delight to trejago. she be a ignorant a a bird. and her distort version of the rumor from the outside world that have reach her in her room amuse trejago almost a much a her lisp attempt to pronounce his name christopher. the first syllable be always more than she could manage and she make funny little gesture with her rise leaf hand a one throw the name away and then kneel before trejago ask him exactly a an englishwoman would do if he be sure he love her. trejago swear that he love her more than any one else in the world. which be true. 
after a month of this folly the exigency of his other life compel trejago to be especially attentive to a lady of his acquaintance. you may take it for a fact that anything of this kind be not only notice and discuss by a man s own race but by some hundred and fifty native a well. trejago have to walk with this lady and talk to her at the band stand and once or twice to drive with her. never for an instant dream that this would affect his dear out of the way life. but the news fly in the usual mysterious fashion from mouth to mouth till bisesa s duenna hear of it and tell bisesa. the child be so trouble that she do the household work evilly and be beat by durga charan s wife in consequence. 
a week late bisesa tax trejago with the flirtation. she understand no gradation and speak openly. trejago laugh and bisesa stamp her little foot little foot light a marigold flower that could lie in the palm of a man s one hand. 
much that be write about oriental passion and impulsiveness be exaggerate and compile at second hand but a little of it be true. and when an englishman find that little it be quite a startle a any passion in his own proper life. bisesa rag and storm and finally threaten to kill herself if trejago do not at once drop the alien memsahib who have come between them. trejago try to explain and to show her that she do not understand these thing from a western standpoint. bisesa draw herself up and say simply. 
i do not. i know only this it be not good that i should have make you dear than my own heart to me sahib. you be an englishman. 
i be only a black girl she be fair than bar gold in the mint and the widow of a black man. 
then she sob and say. but on my soul and my mother s soul i love you. there shall no harm come to you whatever happen to me. 
trejago argue with the child and try to soothe her but she seem quite unreasonably disturb. nothing would satisfy her save that all relation between them should end. he be to go away at once. and he go. a he drop out at the window she kiss his forehead twice and he walk away wonder. 
a week and then three week pass without a sign from bisesa. 
trejago think that the rupture have last quite long enough go down to amir nath s gully for the fifth time in the three week hop that his rap at the sill of the shift grate would be answer. he be not disappoint. 
there be a young moon and one stream of light fell down into amir nath s gully and strike the grate which be draw away a he knock. from the black dark bisesa hold out her arm into the moonlight. both hand have be cut off at the wrist and the stump be nearly heal. 
then a bisesa bow her head between her arm and sob some one in the room grunt like a wild beast and something sharp knife sword or spear thrust at trejago in his boorka. the stroke miss his body but cut into one of the muscle of the groin and he limp slightly from the wind for the rest of his day. 
the grate go into it place. there be no sign whatever from inside the house nothing but the moonlight strip on the high wall and the blackness of amir nath s gully behind. 
the next thing trejago remember after rag and shout like a madman between those pitiless wall be that he find himself near the river a the dawn be break throw away his boorka and go home bareheaded. 
what the tragedy be whether bisesa have in a fit of causeless despair tell everything or the intrigue have be discover and she torture to tell whether durga charan know his name and what become of bisesa trejago doe not know to this day. something horrible have happen and the think of what it must have be come upon trejago in the night now and again and keep him company till the morning. one special feature of the case be that he doe not know where lie the front of durga charan s house. it may open on to a courtyard common to two or more house or it may lie behind any one of the gate of jitha megji s bustee. trejago cannot tell. 
he cannot get bisesa poor little bisesa back again. he ha lose her in the city where each man s house be a guard and a unknowable a the grave. and the grate that open into amir nath s gully ha be wall up. 
but trejago pay his call regularly and be reckon a very decent sort of man. 
there be nothing peculiar about him except a slight stiffness cause by a rid strain in the right leg. 
in error. 
they burn a corpse upon the sand the light shine out afar. it guide home the plunge boat that beat from zanzibar. 
spirit of fire where er thy altar rise. thou art light of guidance to our eye. salsette boat song. 
there be hope for a man who get publicly and riotously drink more often that he ought to do. but there be no hope for the man who drink secretly and alone in his own house the man who be never see to drink. 
this be a rule. so there must be an exception to prove it. 
moriarty s case be that exception. 
he be a civil engineer and the government very kindly put him quite by himself in an out district with nobody but native to talk to and a great deal of work to do. he do his work well in the four year he be utterly alone. but he pick up the vice of secret and solitary drink and come up out of the wilderness more old and wear and haggard than the dead alive life have any right to make him. 
you know the say that a man who ha be alone in the jungle for more than a year be never quite sane all his life after. people credit moriarty s queerness of manner and moody way to the solitude and say it show how government spoil the future of it best men. moriarty have build himself the plinth of a very god reputation in the bridge dam girder line. but he know every night of the week that he be take step to undermine that reputation with l. l. l. and christopher and little nip of liqueur and filth of that kind. he have a sound constitution and a great brain or else he would have break down and die like a sick camel in the district a good men have do before him. 
government order him to simla after he have come out of the desert. and he go up mean to try for a post then vacant. that season mr. reiver perhaps you will remember her be in the height of her power and many men lay under her yoke. everything bad that could be say ha already be say about mr. reiver in another tale. 
moriarty be heavily build and handsome very quiet and nervously anxious to please his neighbor when he wasn t sink in a brown study. he start a good deal at sudden noise or if speak to without warn. and when you watch him drink his glass of water at dinner you could see the hand shake a little. but all this be put down to nervousness and the quiet steady sip sip sip fill and sip sip sip again that go on in his own room when he be by himself be never know. which be miraculous see how everything in a man s private life be public property out here. 
moriarty be draw not into mr. reiver s set because they be not his sort but into the power of mr. reiver and he fell down in front of her and make a goddess of her. this be due to his come fresh out of the jungle to a big town. he could not scale thing properly or see who be what. 
because mr. reiver be cold and hard he say she be stately and dignify. because she have no brain and could not talk cleverly he say she be reserve and shy. mr. reiver shy. because she be unworthy of honor or reverence from any one he reverence her from a distance and dower her with all the virtue in the bible and most of those in shakespeare. 
this big dark abstract man who be so nervous when a pony canter behind him use to moon in the train of mr. reiver blush with pleasure when she throw a word or two his way. his admiration be strictly platonic. even other woman saw and admit this. he do not move out in simla so he hear nothing against his idol. which be satisfactory. mr. reiver take no special notice of him beyond see that he be add to her list of admirer and go for a walk with him now and then just to show that he be her property claimable a such. moriarty must have do most of the talk for mr. reiver couldn t talk much to a man of his stamp. and the little she say could not have be profitable. what moriarty believe in a he have good reason to be mr. reiver s influence over him and in that belief set himself seriously to try to do away with the vice that only he himself know of. 
his experience while he be fight with it must have be peculiar but he never describe them. sometimes he would hold off from everything except water for a week. then on a rainy night when no one have ask him out to dinner and there be a big fire in his room and everything comfortable he would sit down and make a big night of it by add little nip to little nip plan big scheme of reformation meanwhile until he throw himself on his bed hopelessly drink. he suffer next morning. 
one night the big crash come. he be trouble in his own mind over his attempt to make himself worthy of the friendship of mr. reiver. the past ten day have be very bad one and the end of it all be that he receive the arrears of two and three quarter year of sip in one attack of delirium tremens of the subdue kind. begin with suicidal depression go on to fit and start and hysteria and end with downright rave. a he sit in a chair in front of the fire or walk up and down the room pick a handkerchief to piece you hear what poor moriarty really think of mr. reiver for he rave about her and his own fall for the most part. though he ravel some p. w. d. account into the same skein of think. he talk and talk and talk in a low dry whisper to himself and there be no stop him. he seem to know that there be something wrong and twice try to pull himself together and confer rationally with the doctor. but his mind run out of control at once and he fell back to a whisper and the story of his trouble. it be terrible to hear a big man babble like a child of all that a man usually lock up and put away in the deep of his heart. moriarty read out his very soul for the benefit of any one who be in the room between ten thirty that night and two forty five next morning. 
from what he say one gather how immense an influence mr. reiver hold over him and how thoroughly he felt for his own lapse. his whispering cannot of course be put down here. but they be very instructive a show the error of his estimate. 
when the trouble be over and his few acquaintance be pity him for the bad attack of jungle fever that have so pull him down moriarty swear a big oath to himself and go abroad again with mr. reiver till the end of the season adore her in a quiet and deferential way a an angel from heaven. late on he take to rid not hack but honest rid which be good proof that he be improve and you could slam door behind him without his jump to his foot with a gasp. that again be hopeful. 
how he keep his oath and what it cost him in the begin nobody know. he certainly manage to compass the hard thing that a man who ha drink heavily can do. he take his peg and wine at dinner but he never drink alone and never let what he drink have the least hold on him. 
once he tell a bosom friend the story of his great trouble and how the influence of a pure honest woman and an angel a well have save him. when the man startle at anything good be lay to mr. reiver s door laugh it cost him moriarty s friendship. 
moriarty who be marry now to a woman ten thousand time good than mr. reiver a woman who belief that there be no man on earth a good and clever a her husband will go down to his grave vow and protest that mr. reiver save him from ruin in both world. 
that she know anything of moriarty s weakness nobody believe for a moment. that she would have cut him dead throw him over and acquaint all her friend with her discovery if she have know of it nobody who know her doubt for an instant. 
moriarty think her something she never be and in that belief save himself. which be just a good a though she have be everything that he have imagine. 
but the question be what claim will mr. reiver have to the credit of moriarty s salvation when her day of reckon come. 
a bank fraud. 
he drink strong water and his speech be coarse. he purchase raiment and forebore to pay. he strike a trust junior with a horse and win gymkhana in a doubtful way. 
then twixt a vice and folly turn aside to do good deed and straight to cloak them lie. the mess room. 
if reggie burke be in india now he would resent this tale be tell. but a he be in hong kong and win t see it the tell be safe. he be the man who work the big fraud on the sind and sialkote bank. he be manager of an up country branch and a sound practical man with a large experience of native loan and insurance work. he could combine the frivolity of ordinary life with his work and yet do well. reggie burke ride anything that would let him get up dance a neatly a he ride and be want for every sort of amusement in the station. 
a he say himself and a many men find out rather to their surprise there be two burke both very much at your service. 
reggie burke between four and ten ready for anything from a hot weather gymkhana to a rid picnic. and between ten and four mr. reginald burke manager of the sind and sialkote branch bank. you might play polo with him one afternoon and hear him express his opinion when a man cross. and you might call on him next morning to raise a two thousand rupee loan on a five hundred pound insurance policy eighty pound pay in premium. he would recognize you but you would have some trouble in recognize him. 
the director of the bank it have it headquarter in calcutta and it general manager s word carry weight with the government pick their men well. they have test reggie up to a fairly severe break strain. they trust him just a much a director ever trust manager. you must see for yourself whether their trust be misplace. 
reggie s branch be in a big station and work with the usual staff one manager one accountant both english a cashier and a horde of native clerk. besides the police patrol at night outside. 
the bulk of it work for it be in a thrive district be hoondi and accommodation of all kind. a fool ha no grip of this sort of business. and a clever man who doe not go about among his client and know more than a little of their affair be bad than a fool. 
reggie be young look clean shave with a twinkle in his eye and a head that nothing short of a gallon of the gunner madeira could make any impression on. 
one day at a big dinner he announce casually that the director have shift on to him a natural curiosity from england in the accountant line. he be perfectly correct. mr. silas riley accountant be a most curious animal a long gawky rawboned yorkshireman full of the savage self conceit that blossom only in the best county in england. arrogance be a mild word for the mental attitude of mr. s. riley. he have work himself up after seven year to a cashier s position in a huddersfield bank. and all his experience lay among the factory of the north. perhaps he would have do good on the bombay side where they be happy with one half per cent. profit and money be cheap. he be useless for upper india and a wheat province where a man want a large head and a touch of imagination if he be to turn out a satisfactory balance sheet. 
he be wonderfully narrow mind in business and be new to the country have no notion that indian bank be totally distinct from home work. like most clever self make men he have much simplicity in his nature. and somehow or other have construe the ordinarily polite term of his letter of engagement into a belief that the director have choose him on account of his special and brilliant talent and that they set great store by him. this notion grow and crystallize. thus add to his natural north country conceit. 
further he be delicate suffer from some trouble in his chest and be short in his temper. 
you will admit that reggie have reason to call his new accountant a natural curiosity. the two men fail to hit it off at all. riley consider reggie a wild feather head idiot give to heaven only know what dissipation in low place call mess and totally unfit for the serious and solemn vocation of bank. he could never get over reggie s look of youth and you be damn air. and he couldn t understand reggie s friend clean build careless men in the army who ride over to big sunday breakfast at the bank and tell sultry story till riley get up and leave the room. riley be always show reggie how the business ought to be conduct and reggie have more than once to remind him that seven year limit experience between huddersfield and beverly do not qualify a man to steer a big up country business. then riley sulk and refer to himself a a pillar of the bank and a cherish friend of the director and reggie tear his hair. if a man s english subordinate fail him in this country he come to a hard time indeed for native help ha strict limitation. in the winter riley go sick for week at a time with his lung complaint and this throw more work on reggie. but he prefer it to the everlasting friction when riley be well. 
one of the travel inspector of the bank discover these collapse and report them to the director. now riley have be foist on the bank by an m. p. who want the support of riley s father who again be anxious to get his son out to a warm climate because of those lung. the m. p. have an interest in the bank. but one of the director want to advance a nominee of his own. and after riley s father have die he make the rest of the board see that an accountant who be sick for half the year have good give place to a healthy man. if riley have know the real story of his appointment he might have behave good. but know nothing his stretch of sickness alternate with restless persistent meddle irritation of reggie and all the hundred way in which conceit in a subordinate situation can find play. reggie use to call him strike and hair curl name behind his back a a relief to his own feeling. but he never abuse him to his face because he say. riley be such a frail beast that half of his loathsome conceit be due to pain in the chest. 
late one april riley go very sick indeed. the doctor punch him and thump him and tell him he would be good before long. then the doctor go to reggie and say. do you know how sick your accountant be. no. say reggie the bad the good confound him. he s a clack nuisance when he s well. i ll let you take away the bank safe if you can drug him silent for this hot weather. 
but the doctor do not laugh man i m not joke he say. i ll give him another three month in his bed and a week or so more to die in. on my honor and reputation that s all the grace he ha in this world. consumption ha hold of him to the marrow. 
reggie s face change at once into the face of mr. reginald burke and he answer. what can i do. 
nothing say the doctor. for all practical purpose the man be dead already. keep him quiet and cheerful and tell him he s go to recover. that s all. i ll look after him to the end of course. 
the doctor go away and reggie sit down to open the even mail. 
his first letter be one from the director intimate for his information that mr. riley be to resign under a month s notice by the term of his agreement tell reggie that their letter to riley would follow and advise reggie of the come of a new accountant a man whom reggie know and like. 
reggie light a cheroot and before he have finish smoke he have sketch the outline of a fraud. he put away burke the director letter and go in to talk to riley who be a ungracious a usual and fret himself over the way the bank would run during his illness. he never think of the extra work on reggie s shoulder but solely of the damage to his own prospect of advancement. then reggie assure him that everything would be well and that he reggie would confer with riley daily on the management of the bank. riley be a little soothe but he hint in a many word that he do not think much of reggie s business capacity. 
reggie be humble. and he have letter in his desk from the director that a gilbarte or a hardie might have be proud of. 
the day pass in the big darken house and the director letter of dismissal to riley come and be put away by reggie who every even bring the book to riley s room and show him what have be go forward while riley snarl. reggie do his best to make statement please to riley but the accountant be sure that the bank be go to rack and ruin without him. in june a the lie in bed tell on his spirit he ask whether his absence have be note by the director and reggie say that they have write most sympathetic letter hop that he would be able to resume his valuable service before long. he show riley the letter. and riley say that the director ought to have write to him direct. 
a few day late reggie open riley s mail in the half light of the room and give him the sheet not the envelope of a letter to riley from the director. riley say he would thank reggie not to interfere with his private paper specially a reggie know he be too weak to open his own letter. reggie apologize. 
then riley s mood change and he lecture reggie on his evil way. his horse and his bad friend. of course lie here on my back mr. burke i can t keep you straight. but when i m well i do hope you ll pay some heed to my word. reggie who have drop polo and dinner and tennis and all to attend to riley say that he be penitent and settle riley s head on the pillow and hear him fret and contradict in hard dry hack whisper without a sign of impatience. this at the end of a heavy day s office work do double duty in the latter half of june. 
when the new accountant come reggie tell him the fact of the case and announce to riley that he have a guest stay with him. riley say that he might have have more consideration than to entertain his doubtful friend at such a time. reggie make carron the new accountant sleep at the club in consequence. carron s arrival take some of the heavy work off his shoulder and he have time to attend to riley s exaction to explain soothe invent and settle and resettle the poor wretch in bed and to forge complimentary letter from calcutta. at the end of the first month riley wish to send some money home to his mother. reggie send the draft. at the end of the second month riley s salary come in just the same. reggie pay it out of his own pocket. and with it write riley a beautiful letter from the director. 
riley be very ill indeed but the flame of his life burn unsteadily. now and then he would be cheerful and confident about the future sketch plan for go home and see his mother. 
reggie listen patiently when the office work be over and encourage him. 
at other time riley insist on reggie s read the bible and grim methody tract to him. out of these tract he point moral direct at his manager. but he always find time to worry reggie about the work of the bank and to show him where the weak point lay. 
this in door sick room life and constant strain wear reggie down a good deal and shake his nerve and lower his billiard play by forty point. but the business of the bank and the business of the sick room have to go on though the glass be degree in the shade. 
at the end of the third month riley be sink fast and have begin to realize that he be very sick. but the conceit that make him worry reggie keep him from believe the bad. he want some sort of mental stimulant if he be to drag on say the doctor. 
keep him interest in life if you care about his live. so riley contrary to all the law of business and the finance receive a per cent rise of salary from the director. the mental stimulant succeed beautifully. riley be happy and cheerful and a be often the case in consumption healthy in mind when the body be weak. he linger for a full month snarl and fret about the bank talk of the future hear the bible read lecture reggie on sin and wonder when he would be able to move abroad. 
but at the end of september one mercilessly hot even he rise up in his bed with a little gasp and say quickly to reggie. mr. burke i be go to die. i know it in myself. my chest be all hollow inside and there s nothing to breathe with. to the best of my knowledge i have do nowt he be return to the talk of his boyhood to lie heavy on my conscience. god be thank i have be preserve from the gross form of sin. and i counsel you mr. burke. 
here his voice die down and reggie stoop over him. 
send my salary for september to my mother. do great thing with the bank if i have be spar. mistake policy. no fault of mine. 
then he turn his face to the wall and die. 
reggie draw the sheet over it face and go out into the verandah with his last mental stimulant a letter of condolence and sympathy from the director unused in his pocket. 
if i d be only ten minute early think reggie i might have hearten him up to pull through another day. 
tod amendment. 
the world hath set it heavy yoke upon the old white beard folk who strive to please the king. 
god s mercy be upon the young god s wisdom in the baby tongue that fear not anything. the parable of chajju bhagat. 
now tod mamma be a singularly charm woman and every one in simla know tod. most men have save him from death on occasion. 
he be beyond his ayah s control altogether and perilled his life daily to find out what would happen if you pull a mountain battery mule s tail. he be an utterly fearless young pagan about six year old and the only baby who ever break the holy calm of the supreme legislative council. 
it happen this way. tod pet kid get loose and flee up the hill off the boileaugunge road tod after it until it burst into the viceregal lodge lawn then attach to peterhoff. the council be sit at the time and the window be open because it be warm. the red lancer in the porch tell tod to go away. but tod know the red lancer and most of the member of council personally. 
moreover he have firm hold of the kid s collar and be be drag all across the flower bed. give my salaam to the long councillor sahib and ask him to help me take moti back. gasp tod. the council hear the noise through the open window. and after an interval be see the shock spectacle of a legal member and a lieutenant governor help under the direct patronage of a commander in chief and a viceroy one small and very dirty boy in a sailor s suit and a tangle of brown hair to coerce a lively and rebellious kid. they head it off down the path to the mall and tod go home in triumph and tell his mamma that all the councillor sahib have be help him to catch moti. whereat his mamma smack tod for interfere with the administration of the empire. but tod meet the legal member the next day and tell him in confidence that if the legal member ever want to catch a goat he tod would give him all the help in his power. thank you tod say the legal member. 
tod be the idol of some eighty jhampanis and half a many saises. 
he salute them all a o brother. it never enter his head that any live human be could disobey his order. and he be the buff between the servant and his mamma s wrath. the work of that household turn on tod who be adore by every one from the dhoby to the dog boy. even futteh khan the villainous loafer khit from mussoorie shirk risk tod displeasure for fear his co mate should look down on him. 
so tod have honor in the land from boileaugunge to chota simla and rule justly accord to his light. of course he speak urdu but he have also master many queer side speech like the chotee bolee of the woman and hold grave converse with shopkeeper and hill cooly alike. he be precocious for his age and his mix with native have teach him some of the more bitter truth of life. the meanness and the sordidness of it. he use over his bread and milk to deliver solemn and serious aphorism translate from the vernacular into the english that make his mamma jump and vow that tod must go home next hot weather. 
just when tod be in the bloom of his power the supreme legislature be hack out a bill for the sub montane tract a revision of the then act small than the punjab land bill but affect a few hundred thousand people none the le. the legal member have build and bolster and embroider and amend that bill till it look beautiful on paper. then the council begin to settle what they call the minor detail. a if any englishman legislate for native know enough to know which be the minor and which be the major point from the native point of view of any measure. that bill be a triumph of safe guard the interest of the tenant. one clause provide that land should not be lease on long term than five year at a stretch. because if the landlord have a tenant bind down for say twenty year he would squeeze the very life out of him. the notion be to keep up a stream of independent cultivator in the sub montane tract. and ethnologically and politically the notion be correct. the only drawback be that it be altogether wrong. a native s life in india imply the life of his son. wherefore you cannot legislate for one generation at a time. you must consider the next from the native point of view. curiously enough the native now and then and in northern india more particularly hate be over protect against himself. there be a naga village once where they live on dead and bury commissariat mule. but that be another story. 
for many reason to be explain late the people concern object to the bill. the native member in council know a much about punjabi a he know about char cross. he have say in calcutta that the bill be entirely in accord with the desire of that large and important class the cultivator. and so on and so on. the legal member s knowledge of native be limit to english speak durbaris and his own red chaprassis the sub montane tract concern no one in particular the deputy commissioner be a good deal too drive to make representation and the measure be one which deal with small landholder only. nevertheless the legal member pray that it might be correct for he be a nervously conscientious man. he do not know that no man can tell what native think unless he mix with them with the varnish off. and not always then. but he do the best he know. and the measure come up to the supreme council for the final touch while tod patrol the burra simla bazar in his morning ride and play with the monkey belong to ditta mull the bunnia and listen a a child listen to all the stray talk about this new freak of the lat sahib s. 
one day there be a dinner party at the house of tod mamma and the legal member come. tod be in bed but he keep awake till he hear the burst of laughter from the men over the coffee. then he paddle out in his little red flannel dress gown and his night suit and take refuge by the side of his father know that he would not be send back. see the misery of have a family. say tod father give tod three prune some water in a glass that have be use for claret and tell him to sit still. tod suck the prune slowly know that he would have to go when they be finish and sip the pink water like a man of the world a he listen to the conversation. presently the legal member talk shop to the head of a department mention his bill by it full name the sub montane tract ryotwari revise enactment. tod catch the one native word and lift up his small voice say. oh i know all about that. ha it be murramutted yet councillor sahib. 
how much. say the legal member. 
murramutted mend. put theek you know make nice to please ditta mull. 
the legal member leave his place and move up next to tod. 
what do you know about ryotwari little man. he say. 
i m not a little man i m tod and i know all about it. ditta mull and choga lall and amir nath and oh lakh of my friend tell me about it in the bazar when i talk to them. 
oh they do do they. what do they say tod. 
tod tuck his foot under his red flannel dress gown and say. i must fink. 
the legal member wait patiently. then tod with infinite compassion. 
you don t speak my talk do you councillor sahib. 
no. i be sorry to say i do not say the legal member. 
very well say tod. i must fink in english. 
he spend a minute put his idea in order and begin very slowly translate in his mind from the vernacular to english a many anglo indian child do. you must remember that the legal member help him on by question when he halt for tod be not equal to the sustain flight of oratory that follow. 
ditta mull say. this thing be the talk of a child and be make up by fool. but i don t think you be a fool councillor sahib say tod hastily. you catch my goat. this be what ditta mull say. i be not a fool and why should the sirkar say i be a child. i can see if the land be good and if the landlord be good. if i be a fool the sin be upon my own head. for five year i take my grind for which i have save money and a wife i take too and a little son be bear. ditta mull ha one daughter now but he say he will have a son soon. and he say. at the end of five year by this new bundobust i must go. if i do not go i must get fresh seal and takkus stamp on the paper perhaps in the middle of the harvest and to go to the law court once be wisdom but to go twice be jehannum. that be quite true explain tod gravely. all my friend say so. and ditta mull say. always fresh takkus and pay money to vakils and chaprassis and law court every five year or else the landlord make me go. why do i want to go. be i fool. if i be a fool and do not know after forty year good land when i see it let me die. but if the new bundobust say for fifteen year then it be good and wise. my little son be a man and i be burn and he take the grind or another grind pay only once for the takkus stamp on the paper and his little son be bear and at the end of fifteen year be a man too. but what profit be there in five year and fresh paper. nothing but dikh trouble dikh. we be not young men who take these land but old one not jais but tradesman with a little money and for fifteen year we shall have peace. nor be we child that the sirkar should treat u so. 
here tod stop short for the whole table be listen. the legal member say to tod. be that all. 
all i can remember say tod. but you should see ditta mull s big monkey. it s just like a councillor sahib. 
tod. go to bed say his father. 
tod gather up his dress gown tail and depart. 
the legal member bring his hand down on the table with a crash by jove. say the legal member i believe the boy be right. the short tenure be the weak point. 
he leave early think over what tod have say. now it be obviously impossible for the legal member to play with a bunnia s monkey by way of get understand. but he do good. he make inquiry always bear in mind the fact that the real native not the hybrid university train mule be a timid a a colt and little by little he coax some of the men whom the measure concern most intimately to give in their view which square very closely with tod evidence. 
so the bill be amend in that clause. and the legal member be fill with an uneasy suspicion that native member represent very little except the order they carry on their bosom. but he put the think from him a illiberal. he be a most liberal man. 
after a time the news spread through the bazar that tod have get the bill recast in the tenure clause and if tod mamma have not interfere tod would have make himself sick on the basket of fruit and pistachio nut and cabuli grape and almond that crowd the verandah. till he go home tod rank some few degree before the viceroy in popular estimation. but for the little life of him tod could not understand why. 
in the legal member s private paper box still lie the rough draft of the sub montane tract ryotwari revise enactment. and opposite the twenty second clause pencil in blue chalk and sign by the legal member be the word tod amendment. 
in the pride of his youth. 
stop in the straight when the race be his own. look at him cut it cur to the bone. ask ere the youngster be rat and chide what do he carry and how be he ride. maybe they use him too much at the start. maybe fate s weight cloth be break his heart. life s handicap. 
when i be tell you of the joke that the worm play off on the senior subaltern i promise a somewhat similar tale but with all the jest leave out. this be that tale. 
dicky hatt be kidnap in his early early youth neither by landlady s daughter housemaid barmaid nor cook but by a girl so nearly of his own caste that only a woman could have say she be just the least little bite in the world below it. this happen a month before he come out to india and five day after his one and twentieth birthday. the girl be nineteen six year old than dicky in the thing of this world that be to say and for the time twice a foolish a he. 
except always fall off a horse there be nothing more fatally easy than marriage before the registrar. the ceremony cost le than fifty shilling and be remarkably like walk into a pawn shop. after the declaration of residence have be put in four minute will cover the rest of the proceeding fee attestation and all. then the registrar slide the blot pad over the name and say grimly with his pen between his teeth. now you re man and wife. and the couple walk out into the street feel a if something be horribly illegal somewhere. 
but that ceremony hold and can drag a man to his undo just a thoroughly a the long a ye both shall live curse from the altar rail with the bridesmaid giggle behind and the voice that breathe o er eden lift the roof off. in this manner be dicky hatt kidnap and he consider it vastly fine for he have receive an appointment in india which carry a magnificent salary from the home point of view. the marriage be to be keep secret for a year. then mr. dicky hatt be to come out and the rest of life be to be a glorious golden mist. that be how they sketch it under the addison road station lamp. and after one short month come gravesend and dicky steam out to his new life and the girl cry in a thirty shilling a week bed and live room in a back street off montpelier square near the knightsbridge barrack. 
but the country that dicky come to be a hard land where men of twenty one be reckon very small boy indeed and life be expensive. the salary that loom so large six thousand mile away do not go far. particularly when dicky divide it by two and remit more than the fair half at to montpelier square. one hundred and thirty five rupee out of three hundred and thirty be not much to live on. but it be absurd to suppose that mr. hatt could exist forever on the pound hold back by dicky from his outfit allowance. dicky saw this and remit at once. always remember that r. be to be pay twelve month late for a first class passage out for a lady. when you add to these trifle detail the natural instinct of a boy begin a new life in a new country and long to go about and enjoy himself and the necessity for grapple with strange work which properly speak should take up a boy s undivided attention you will see that dicky start handicap. he saw it himself for a breath or two. but he do not guess the full beauty of his future. 
a the hot weather begin the shackle settle on him and eat into his flesh. first would come letter big cross seven sheet letter from his wife tell him how she long to see him and what a heaven upon earth would be their property when they meet. 
then some boy of the chummery wherein dicky lodge would pound on the door of his bare little room and tell him to come out and look at a pony the very thing to suit him. dicky could not afford pony. he have to explain this. dicky could not afford live in the chummery modest a it be. he have to explain this before he move to a single room next the office where he work all day. he keep house on a green oil cloth table cover one chair one charpoy one photograph one tooth glass very strong and thick a seven rupee eight anna filter and mess by contract at thirty seven rupee a month. which last item be extortion. he have no punkah for a punkah cost fifteen rupee a month. but he sleep on the roof of the office with all his wife s letter under his pillow. now and again he be ask out to dinner where he get both a punkah and an ice drink. but this be seldom for people object to recognize a boy who have evidently the instinct of a scotch tallow chandler and who live in such a nasty fashion. dicky could not subscribe to any amusement so he find no amusement except the pleasure of turn over his bank book and read what it say about loan on approve security. that cost nothing. he remit through a bombay bank by the way and the station know nothing of his private affair. 
every month he send home all he could possibly spare for his wife and for another reason which be expect to explain itself shortly and would require more money. 
about this time dicky be overtake with the nervous haunt fear that beset marry men when they be out of sort. he have no pension to look to. what if he should die suddenly and leave his wife unprovided for. the think use to lay hold of him in the still hot night on the roof till the shake of his heart make him think that he be go to die then and there of heart disease. 
now this be a frame of mind which no boy ha a right to know. it be a strong man s trouble. but come when it do it nearly drive poor punkah le perspire dicky hatt mad. he could tell no one about it. 
a certain amount of screw be a necessary for a man a for a billiard ball. it make them both do wonderful thing. dicky need money badly and he work for it like a horse. but naturally the men who own him know that a boy can live very comfortably on a certain income pay in india be a matter of age not merit you see and if their particular boy wish to work like two boy business forbid that they should stop him. but business forbid that they should give him an increase of pay at his present ridiculously immature age. so dicky win certain rise of salary ample for a boy not enough for a wife and child certainly too little for the seven hundred rupee passage that he and mr. hatt have discuss so lightly once upon a time. and with this he be force to be content. 
somehow all his money seem to fade away in home draft and the crush exchange and the tone of the home letter change and grow querulous. why wouldn t dicky have his wife and the baby out. surely he have a salary a fine salary and it be too bad of him to enjoy himself in india. but would he could he make the next draft a little more elastic. here follow a list of baby s kit a long a a parsee s bill. then dicky whose heart yearn to his wife and the little son he have never see which again be a feel no boy be entitle to enlarge the draft and write queer half boy half man letter say that life be not so enjoyable after all and would the little wife wait yet a little long. but the little wife however much she approve of money object to wait and there be a strange hard sort of ring in her letter that dicky didn t understand. how could he poor boy. 
late on still just a dicky have be tell apropos of another youngster who have make a fool of himself a the say be that matrimony would not only ruin his further chance of advancement but would lose him his present appointment come the news that the baby his own little little son have die and behind this forty line of an angry woman s scrawl say that death might have be avert if certain thing all cost money have be do or if the mother and the baby have be with dicky. the letter strike at dicky s naked heart. but not be officially entitle to a baby he could show no sign of trouble. 
how dicky win through the next four month and what hope he keep alight to force him into his work no one dare say. he pound on the seven hundred rupee passage a far away a ever and his style of live unchanged except when he launch into a new filter. 
there be the strain of his office work and the strain of his remittance and the knowledge of his boy s death which touch the boy more perhaps than it would have touch a man. and beyond all the endure strain of his daily life. gray head senior who approve of his thrift and his fashion of deny himself everything pleasant remind him of the old saw that say. 
if a youth would be distinguish in his art art art he must keep the girl away from his heart heart heart. 
and dicky who fancy he have be through every trouble that a man be permit to know have to laugh and agree. with the last line of his balance bank book jingle in his head day and night. 
but he have one more sorrow to digest before the end. there arrive a letter from the little wife the natural sequence of the others if dicky have only know it and the burden of that letter be go with a handsome man than you. it be a rather curious production without stop something like this. she be not go to wait forever and the baby be dead and dicky be only a boy and he would never set eye on her again and why hadn t he wave his handkerchief to her when he leave gravesend and god be her judge she be a wicked woman but dicky be bad enjoy himself in india and this other man love the grind she tread on and would dicky ever forgive her for she would never forgive dicky. and there be no address to write to. 
instead of thank his lucky star that he be free dicky discover exactly how an injure husband feel again not at all the knowledge to which a boy be entitle for his mind go back to his wife a he remember her in the thirty shill suite in montpelier square when the dawn of his last morning in england be break and she be cry in the bed. whereat he roll about on his bed and bite his finger. he never stop to think whether if he have meet mr. hatt after those two year he would have discover that he and she have grow quite different and new person. this theoretically he ought to have do. he spend the night after the english mail come in rather severe pain. 
next morning dicky hatt felt disincline to work. he argue that he have miss the pleasure of youth. he be tire and he have taste all the sorrow in life before three and twenty. his honor be go that be the man. and now he too would go to the devil that be the boy in him. so he put his head down on the green oil cloth table cover and weep before resign his post and all it offer. 
but the reward of his service come. he be give three day to reconsider himself and the head of the establishment after some telegraph say that it be a most unusual step but in view of the ability that mr. hatt have display at such and such a time at such and such juncture he be in a position to offer him an infinitely superior post first on probation and late in the natural course of thing on confirmation. and how much doe the post carry. say dicky. six hundred and fifty rupee say the head slowly expect to see the young man sink with gratitude and joy. 
and it come then. the seven hundred rupee passage and enough to have save the wife and the little son and to have allow of assure and open marriage come then. dicky burst into a roar of laughter laughter he could not check nasty jangle merriment that seem a if it would go on forever. when he have recover himself he say quite seriously. i m tire of work. i m an old man now. it s about time i retire. and i will. 
the boy s mad. say the head. 
i think he be right. but dicky hatt never reappear to settle the question. 
pig. 
go stalk the red deer o er the heather ride follow the fox if you can. but for pleasure and profit together allow me the hunt of man the chase of the human the search for the soul to it ruin the hunt of man. the old shikarri. 
i believe the difference begin in the matter of a horse with a twist in his temper whom pinecoffin sell to nafferton and by whom nafferton be nearly slay. there may have be other cause of offence. the horse be the official stalk horse. nafferton be very angry. but pinecoffin laugh and say that he have never guarantee the beast s manner. nafferton laugh too though he vow that he would write off his fall against pinecoffin if he wait five year. now a dalesman from beyond skipton will forgive an injury when the strid let a man live. but a south devon man be a soft a a dartmoor bog. you can see from their name that nafferton have the race advantage of pinecoffin. he be a peculiar man and his notion of humor be cruel. he teach me a new and fascinate form of shikar. he hound pinecoffin from mithankot to jagadri and from gurgaon to abbottabad up and across the punjab a large province and in place remarkably dry. he say that he have no intention of allow assistant commissioner to sell him pup in the shape of ramp scream countrybreds without make their life a burden to them. 
most assistant commissioner develop a bend for some special work after their first hot weather in the country. the boy with digestion hope to write their name large on the frontier and struggle for dreary place like bannu and kohat. the bilious one climb into the secretariat. which be very bad for the liver. 
others be bite with a mania for district work ghuznivide coin or persian poetry. while some who come of farmer stock find that the smell of the earth after the rain get into their blood and call them to develop the resource of the province. these men be enthusiast. pinecoffin belong to their class. he know a great many fact bear on the cost of bullock and temporary well and opium scraper and what happen if you burn too much rubbish on a field in the hope of enrich use up soil. all the pinecoffins come of a landholding breed and so the land only take back her own again. unfortunately most unfortunately for pinecoffin he be a civilian a well a a farmer. nafferton watch him and think about the horse. nafferton say. see me chase that boy till he drop. i say. you can t get your knife into an assistant commissioner. nafferton tell me that i do not understand the administration of the province. 
our government be rather peculiar. it gush on the agricultural and general information side and will supply a moderately respectable man with all sort of economic statistic if he speak to it prettily. for instance you be interest in gold wash in the sand of the sutlej. you pull the string and find that it wake up half a dozen department and finally communicate say with a friend of yours in the telegraph who once write some note on the custom of the gold washer when he be on construction work in their part of the empire. he may or may not be please at be order to write out everything he know for your benefit. this depend on his temperament. the big man you be the more information and the great trouble can you raise. 
nafferton be not a big man. but he have the reputation of be very earnest. an earnest man can do much with a government. there be an earnest man who once nearly wreck. but all india know that story. i be not sure what real earnestness be. a very fair imitation can be manufacture by neglect to dress decently by moon about in a dreamy misty sort of way by take office work home after stay in office till seven and by receive crowd of native gentleman on sunday. that be one sort of earnestness. 
nafferton cast about for a peg whereon to hang his earnestness and for a string that would communicate with pinecoffin. he find both. 
they be pig. nafferton become an earnest inquirer after pig. he inform the government that he have a scheme whereby a very large percentage of the british army in india could be feed at a very large save on pig. then he hint that pinecoffin might supply him with the vary information necessary to the proper inception of the scheme. so the government write on the back of the letter. instruct mr. pinecoffin to furnish mr. nafferton with any information in his power. government be very prone to write thing on the back of letter which late lead to trouble and confusion. 
nafferton have not the faint interest in pig but he know that pinecoffin would flounce into the trap. pinecoffin be delight at be consult about pig. the indian pig be not exactly an important factor in agricultural life. but nafferton explain to pinecoffin that there be room for improvement and correspond direct with that young man. 
you may think that there be not much to be evolve from pig. it all depend how you set to work. pinecoffin be a civilian and wish to do thing thoroughly begin with an essay on the primitive pig the mythology of the pig and the dravidian pig. 
nafferton file that information twenty seven foolscap sheet and want to know about the distribution of the pig in the punjab and how it stand the plain in the hot weather. from this point onwards remember that i be give you only the bare outline of the affair the guy rope a it be of the web that nafferton spin round pinecoffin. 
pinecoffin make a color pig population map and collect observation on the comparative longevity of the pig. a. in the sub montane tract of the himalaya and. b. in the rechna doab. 
nafferton file that and ask what sort of people look after pig. this start an ethnological excursus on swineherd and draw from pinecoffin long table show the proportion per thousand of the caste in the derajat. nafferton file that bundle and explain that the figure which he want refer to the ci sutlej state where he understand that pig be very fine and large and where he propose to start a piggery. by this time government have quite forget their instruction to mr. pinecoffin. 
they be like the gentleman in keats poem who turn well oil wheel to skin other people. but pinecoffin be just enter into the spirit of the pig hunt a nafferton well know he would do. he have a fair amount of work of his own to clear away. but he sit up of night reduce pig to five place of decimal for the honor of his service. he be not go to appear ignorant of so easy a subject a pig. 
then government send him on special duty to kohat to inquire into the big seven foot iron shoe spade of that district. people have be kill each other with those peaceful tool. and government wish to know whether a modify form of agricultural implement could not tentatively and a a temporary measure be introduce among the agricultural population without needlessly or unduly exasperate the exist religious sentiment of the peasantry. 
between those spade and nafferton s pig pinecoffin be rather heavily burden. 
nafferton now begin to take up. a. the food supply of the indigenous pig with a view to the improvement of it capacity a a flesh former. b. the acclimatization of the exotic pig maintain it distinctive peculiarity. pinecoffin reply exhaustively that the exotic pig would become merge in the indigenous type. and quote horse breed statistic to prove this. 
the side issue be debate at great length on pinecoffin s side till nafferton own that he have be in the wrong and move the previous question. when pinecoffin have quite write himself out about flesh former and fibrin and glucose and the nitrogenous constituent of maize and lucerne nafferton raise the question of expense. by this time pinecoffin who have be transfer from kohat have develop a pig theory of his own which he state in thirty three folio page all carefully file by nafferton. who ask for more. 
these thing take ten month and pinecoffin s interest in the potential piggery seem to die down after he have state his own view. but nafferton bombard him with letter on the imperial aspect of the scheme a tend to officialize the sale of pork and thereby calculate to give offence to the mahomedan population of upper india. he guess that pinecoffin would want some broad free hand work after his niggle stipple decimal detail. 
pinecoffin handle the late development of the case in masterly style and prove that no popular ebullition of excitement be to be apprehend. nafferton say that there be nothing like civilian insight in matter of this kind and lure him up a bye path the possible profit to accrue to the government from the sale of hog bristle. there be an extensive literature of hog bristle and the shoe brush and colorman s trade recognize more variety of bristle than you would think possible. after pinecoffin have wonder a little at nafferton s rage for information he send back a monograph fifty one page on product of the pig. this lead him under nafferton s tender handle straight to the cawnpore factory the trade in hog skin for saddle and thence to the tanner. pinecoffin write that pomegranate seed be the best cure for hog skin and suggest for the past fourteen month have weary him that nafferton should raise his pig before he tan them. 
nafferton go back to the second section of his fifth question. 
how could the exotic pig be bring to give a much pork a it do in the west and yet assume the essentially hirsute characteristic of it oriental congener. pinecoffin felt daze for he have forget what he have write sixteen month s before and fancy that he be about to reopen the entire question. he be too far involve in the hideous tangle to retreat and in a weak moment he write. consult my first letter. which relate to the dravidian pig. a a matter of fact pinecoffin have still to reach the acclimatization stage. have go off on a side issue on the merge of type. 
then nafferton really unmask his battery. he complain to the government in stately language of the paucity of help accord to me in my earnest attempt to start a potentially remunerative industry and the flippancy with which my request for information be treat by a gentleman whose pseudo scholarly attainment should at l have teach him the primary difference between the dravidian and the berkshire variety of the genus sus. if i be to understand that the letter to which he refer me contain his serious view on the acclimatization of a valuable though possibly uncleanly animal i be reluctantly compel to believe etc. etc. 
there be a new man at the head of the department of castigation. 
the wretched pinecoffin be tell that the service be make for the country and not the country for the service and that he have good begin to supply information about pig. 
pinecoffin answer insanely that he have write everything that could be write about pig and that some furlough be due to him. 
nafferton get a copy of that letter and send it with the essay on the dravidian pig to a down country paper which print both in full. the essay be rather highflown. but if the editor have see the stack of paper in pinecoffin s handwrite on nafferton s table he would not have be so sarcastic about the nebulous discursiveness and blatant self sufficiency of the modern competition wallah and his utter inability to grasp the practical issue of a practical question. many friend cut out these remark and send them to pinecoffin. 
i have already state that pinecoffin come of a soft stock. this last stroke frighten and shake him. he could not understand it. but he felt he have be somehow shamelessly betray by nafferton. 
he realize that he have wrap himself up in the pigskin without need and that he could not well set himself right with his government. all his acquaintance ask after his nebulous discursiveness or his blatant self sufficiency and this make him miserable. 
he take a train and go to nafferton whom he have not see since the pig business begin. he also take the cut from the paper and bluster feebly and call nafferton name and then die down to a watery weak protest of the i say it s too bad you know order. 
nafferton be very sympathetic. 
i m afraid i ve give you a good deal of trouble haven t i. say he. 
trouble. whimper pinecoffin. i don t mind the trouble so much though that be bad enough. but what i resent be this show up in print. it will stick to me like a burr all through my service. and i do do my best for your interminable swine. it s too bad of you on my soul it be. 
i don t know say nafferton. have you ever be stick with a horse. it isn t the money i mind though that be bad enough. but what i resent be the chaff that follow especially from the boy who stick me. but i think we ll cry quite now. 
pinecoffin find nothing to say save bad word. and nafferton smile ever so sweetly and ask him to dinner. 
the rout of the white hussar. 
it be not in the open fight we throw away the sword but in the lonely watch in the darkness by the ford. 
the water lap the night wind blow full arm the fear be bear and grow and we be fly ere we know from panic in the night. beoni bar. 
some people hold that an english cavalry regiment cannot run. this be a mistake. i have see four hundred and thirty seven sabre fly over the face of the country in abject terror have see the best regiment that ever draw bridle wipe off the army list for the space of two hour. if you repeat this tale to the white hussar they will in all probability treat you severely. they be not proud of the incident. 
you may know the white hussar by their side which be great than that of all the cavalry regiment on the roster. if this be not a sufficient mark you may know them by their old brandy. it ha be sixty year in the mess and be worth go far to taste. 
ask for the mcgaire old brandy and see that you get it. if the mess sergeant think that you be uneducated and that the genuine article will be lose on you he will treat you accordingly. he be a good man. but when you be at mess you must never talk to your host about force march or long distance ride. the mess be very sensitive. and if they think that you be laugh at them will tell you so. 
a the white hussar say it be all the colonel s fault. he be a new man and he ought never to have take the command. he say that the regiment be not smart enough. this to the white hussar who know they could walk round any horse and through any gun and over any foot on the face of the earth. that insult be the first cause of offence. 
then the colonel cast the drum horse the drum horse of the white hussar. perhaps you do not see what an unspeakable crime he have commit. i will try to make it clear. the soul of the regiment life in the drum horse who carry the silver kettle drum. he be nearly always a big piebald waler. that be a point of honor. and a regiment will spend anything you please on a piebald. he be beyond the ordinary law of cast. his work be very light and he only manoeuvre at a foot pace. wherefore so long a he can step out and look handsome his well be be assure. he know more about the regiment than the adjutant and could not make a mistake if he try. 
the drum horse of the white hussar be only eighteen year old and perfectly equal to his duty. he have at least six year more work in him and carry himself with all the pomp and dignity of a drum major of the guard. the regiment have pay r. for him. 
but the colonel say that he must go and he be cast in due form and replace by a washy bay beast a ugly a a mule with a ewe neck rat tail and cow hock. the drummer detest that animal and the best of the band horse put back their ear and show the white of their eye at the very sight of him. they know him for an upstart and no gentleman. i fancy that the colonel s idea of smartness extend to the band and that he want to make it take part in the regular parade movement. a cavalry band be a sacred thing. it only turn out for command officer parade and the band master be one degree more important than the colonel. he be a high priest and the keel row be his holy song. the keel row be the cavalry trot. and the man who ha never hear that tune rise high and shrill above the rattle of the regiment go past the salute base ha something yet to hear and understand. 
when the colonel cast the drum horse of the white hussar there be nearly a mutiny. 
the officer be angry the regiment be furious and the bandsman swear like trooper. the drum horse be go to be put up to auction public auction to be buy perhaps by a parsee and put into a cart. it be bad than expose the inner life of the regiment to the whole world or sell the mess plate to a jew a black jew. 
the colonel be a mean man and a bully. he know what the regiment think about his action. and when the trooper offer to buy the drum horse he say that their offer be mutinous and forbid by the regulation. 
but one of the subaltern hogan yale an irishman buy the drum horse for r. at the sale. and the colonel be wroth. yale profess repentance he be unnaturally submissive and say that a he have only make the purchase to save the horse from possible ill treatment and starvation he would now shoot him and end the business. this appear to soothe the colonel for he want the drum horse dispose of. he felt that he have make a mistake and could not of course acknowledge it. meantime the presence of the drum horse be an annoyance to him. 
yale take to himself a glass of the old brandy three cheroot and his friend martyn. and they all leave the mess together. yale and martyn confer for two hour in yale s quarter. but only the bull terrier who keep watch over yale s boot tree know what they say. a horse hood and sheet to his ear leave yale s stable and be take very unwillingly into the civil line. yale s groom go with him. two men break into the regimental theatre and take several paint pot and some large scenery brush. then night fell over the cantonment and there be a noise a of a horse kick his loose box to piece in yale s stable. yale have a big old white waler trap horse. 
the next day be a thursday and the men hear that yale be go to shoot the drum horse in the even determine to give the beast a regular regimental funeral a fine one than they would have give the colonel have he die just then. they get a bullock cart and some sack and mound and mound of rose and the body under sack be carry out to the place where the anthrax case be cremate. two third of the regiment follow. there be no band but they all sing the place where the old horse die a something respectful and appropriate to the occasion. when the corpse be dump into the grave and the men begin throw down armful of rose to cover it the farrier sergeant rip out an oath and say aloud. why it ain t the drum horse any more than it s me. the troop sergeant major ask him whether he have leave his head in the canteen. the farrier sergeant say that he know the drum horse s foot a well a he know his own. but he be silence when he saw the regimental number burn in on the poor stiff upturned near fore. 
thus be the drum horse of the white hussar bury. the farrier sergeant grumble. the sack that cover the corpse be smear in place with black paint. and the farrier sergeant draw attention to this fact. but the troop sergeant major of e troop kick him severely on the shin and tell him that he be undoubtedly drink. 
on the monday follow the burial the colonel seek revenge on the white hussar. unfortunately be at that time temporarily in command of the station he order a brigade field day. he say that he wish to make the regiment sweat for their damn insolence and he carry out his notion thoroughly. that monday be one of the hard day in the memory of the white hussar. 
they be throw against a skeleton enemy and push forward and withdraw and dismount and scientifically handle in every possible fashion over dusty country till they sweat profusely. 
their only amusement come late in the day when they fell upon the battery of horse artillery and chase it for two mile s. this be a personal question and most of the trooper have money on the event. the gunner say openly that they have the leg of the white hussar. they be wrong. a march past conclude the campaign and when the regiment get back to their line the men be coat with dirt from spur to chin strap. 
the white hussar have one great and peculiar privilege. they win it at fontenoy i think. 
many regiment posse special right such a wear collar with undress uniform or a bow of ribbon between the shoulder or red and white rose in their helmet on certain day of the year. some right be connect with regimental saint and some with regimental success. all be value highly. but none so highly a the right of the white hussar to have the band play when their horse be be water in the line. only one tune be play and that tune never vary. i don t know it real name but the white hussar call it. take me to london again. it sound very pretty. the regiment would sooner be strike off the roster than forego their distinction. 
after the dismiss be sound the officer ride off home to prepare for stable. and the men file into the line rid easy. 
that be to say they open their tight button shift their helmet and begin to joke or to swear a the humor take them. the more careful slip off and ease girth and curb. a good trooper value his mount exactly a much a he value himself and belief or should believe that the two together be irresistible where woman or men girl or gun be concern. 
then the orderly officer give the order. water horse and the regiment loaf off to the squadron trough which be in rear of the stable and between these and the barrack. there be four huge trough one for each squadron arrange en echelon so that the whole regiment could water in ten minute if it like. but it linger for seventeen a a rule while the band play. 
the band strike up a the squadron file off the trough and the men slip their foot out of the stirrup and chaff each other. 
the sun be just set in a big hot bed of red cloud and the road to the civil line seem to run straight into the sun s eye. 
there be a little dot on the road. it grow and grow till it show a a horse with a sort of gridiron thing on his back. the red cloud glare through the bar of the gridiron. some of the trooper shade their eye with their hand and say. what the mischief a that there orse get on im. 
in another minute they hear a neigh that every soul horse and man in the regiment know and saw head straight towards the band the dead drum horse of the white hussar. 
on his wither bang and bump the kettle drum drape in crape and on his back very stiff and soldierly sit a bare head skeleton. 
the band stop play and for a moment there be a hush. 
then some one in e troop men say it be the troop sergeant major swing his horse round and yell. no one can account exactly for what happen afterwards. but it seem that at least one man in each troop set an example of panic and the rest follow like sheep. the horse that have barely put their muzzle into the trough s rear and caper. but a soon a the band break which it do when the ghost of the drum horse be about a furlong distant all hoof follow suit and the clatter of the stampede quite different from the orderly throb and roar of a movement on parade or the rough horse play of water in camp make them only more terrify. they felt that the men on their back be afraid of something. when horse once know that all be over except the butchery. 
troop after troop turn from the trough and run anywhere and everywhere like spill quicksilver. it be a most extraordinary spectacle for men and horse be in all stage of easiness and the carbine bucket flop against their side urge the horse on. men be shout and curse and try to pull clear of the band which be be chase by the drum horse whose rider have fall forward and seem to be spur for a wager. 
the colonel have go over to the mess for a drink. most of the officer be with him and the subaltern of the day be prepare to go down to the line and receive the water report from the troop sergeant major. when take me to london again stop after twenty bar every one in the mess say. what on earth ha happen. a minute late they hear unmilitary noise and saw far across the plain the white hussar scatter and break and fly. 
the colonel be speechless with rage for he think that the regiment have rise against him or be unanimously drink. the band a disorganize mob tear past and at it heel labor the drum horse the dead and bury drum horse with the jolt clatter skeleton. hogan yale whisper softly to martyn. no wire will stand that treatment and the band which have double like a hare come back again. but the rest of the regiment be go be riot all over the province for the dusk have shut in and each man be howl to his neighbor that the drum horse be on his flank. 
troop horse be far too tenderly treat a a rule. they can on emergency do a great deal even with seventeen stone on their back. a the trooper find out. 
how long this panic last i cannot say. i believe that when the moon rise the men saw they have nothing to fear and by two and three and half troop creep back into cantonment very much ashamed of themselves. meantime the drum horse disgust at his treatment by old friend pull up wheel round and trot up to the mess verandah step for bread. no one like to run. but no one care to go forward till the colonel make a movement and lay hold of the skeleton s foot. the band have halt some distance away and now come back slowly. the colonel call it individually and collectively every evil name that occur to him at the time. for he have set his hand on the bosom of the drum horse and find flesh and blood. then he beat the kettle drum with his clench fist and discover that they be but make of silver paper and bamboo. next still swear he try to drag the skeleton out of the saddle but find that it have be wire into the cantle. the sight of the colonel with his arm round the skeleton s pelvis and his knee in the old drum horse s stomach be strike. not to say amuse. he worry the thing off in a minute or two and throw it down on the grind say to the band. here you cur that s what you re afraid of. the skeleton do not look pretty in the twilight. the band sergeant seem to recognize it for he begin to chuckle and choke. shall i take it away sir. say the band sergeant. yes say the colonel take it to hell and ride there yourselves. 
the band sergeant salute hoist the skeleton across his saddle bow and lead off to the stable. then the colonel begin to make inquiry for the rest of the regiment and the language he use be wonderful. he would disband the regiment he would court martial every soul in it he would not command such a set of rabble and so on and so on. a the men drop in his language grow wild until at last it exceed the utmost limit of free speech allow even to a colonel of horse. 
martyn take hogan yale aside and suggest compulsory retirement from the service a a necessity when all be discover. martyn be the weak man of the two hogan yale put up his eyebrow and remark firstly that he be the son of a lord and secondly that he be a innocent a the babe unborn of the theatrical resurrection of the drum horse. 
my instruction say yale with a singularly sweet smile be that the drum horse should be send back a impressively a possible. 
i ask you be i responsible if a mule head friend send him back in such a manner a to disturb the peace of mind of a regiment of her majesty s cavalry. 
martyn say. you be a great man and will in time become a general. but i d give my chance of a troop to be safe out of this affair. 
providence save martyn and hogan yale. the second in command lead the colonel away to the little curtain alcove wherein the subaltern of the white hussar be accustom to play poker of night. and there after many oath on the colonel s part they talk together in low tone. i fancy that the second in command must have represent the scare a the work of some trooper whom it would be hopeless to detect. and i know that he dwell upon the sin and the shame of make a public laughingstock of the scare. 
they will call u say the second in command who have really a fine imagination they will call u the fly by night. they will call u the ghost hunter. they will nickname u from one end of the army list to the other. all the explanation in the world win t make outsider understand that the officer be away when the panic begin. for the honor of the regiment and for your own sake keep this thing quiet. 
the colonel be so exhaust with anger that soothe him down be not so difficult a might be imagine. he be make to see gently and by degree that it be obviously impossible to court martial the whole regiment and equally impossible to proceed against any subaltern who in his belief have any concern in the hoax. 
but the beast s alive. he s never be shoot at all. shout the colonel. it s flat flagrant disobedience. i ve know a man break for le d d sight le. they re mock me i tell you mutman. they re mock me. 
once more the second in command set himself to sooth the colonel and wrestle with him for half an hour. at the end of that time the regimental sergeant major report himself. the situation be rather novel tell to him. but he be not a man to be put out by circumstance. he salute and say. regiment all come back sir. then to propitiate the colonel. an none of the horse any the bad sir. 
the colonel only snort and answer. you d good tuck the men into their cot then and see that they don t wake up and cry in the night. the sergeant withdraw. 
his little stroke of humor please the colonel and further he felt slightly ashamed of the language he have be use. the second in command worry him again and the two sit talk far into the night. 
next day but one there be a command officer s parade and the colonel harangue the white hussar vigorously. the pith of his speech be that since the drum horse in his old age have prove himself capable of cut up the whole regiment he should return to his post of pride at the head of the band but the regiment be a set of ruffian with bad conscience. 
the white hussar shout and throw everything movable about them into the air and when the parade be over they cheer the colonel till they couldn t speak. no cheer be put up for lieutenant hogan yale who smile very sweetly in the background. 
say the second in command to the colonel unofficially. these little thing ensure popularity and do not the least affect discipline. 
but i go back on my word say the colonel. 
never mind say the second in command. the white hussar will follow you anywhere from today. regiment be just like woman. they will do anything for trinketry. 
a week late hogan yale receive an extraordinary letter from some one who sign himself secretary charity and zeal e. c. and ask for the return of our skeleton which we have reason to believe be in your possession. 
who the deuce be this lunatic who trade in bone. say hogan yale. 
beg your pardon sir say the band sergeant but the skeleton be with me an i ll return it if you ll pay the carriage into the civil line. there s a coffin with it sir. 
hogan yale smile and hand two rupee to the band sergeant say. write the date on the skull will you. 
if you doubt this story and know where to go you can see the date on the skeleton. but don t mention the matter to the white hussar. 
i happen to know something about it because i prepare the drum horse for his resurrection. he do not take kindly to the skeleton at all. 
the bronckhorst divorce case. 
in the daytime when she move about me in the night when she be sleep at my side i be weary i be weary of her presence. 
day by day and night by night i grow to hate her would to god that she or i have die. confession. 
there be a man call bronckhorst a three corner middle age man in the army gray a a badger and some people say with a touch of country blood in him. that however cannot be prove. 
mr. bronckhorst be not exactly young though fifteen year young than her husband. she be a large pale quiet woman with heavy eyelid over weak eye and hair that turn red or yellow a the light fell on it. 
bronckhorst be not nice in any way. he have no respect for the pretty public and private lie that make life a little le nasty than it be. his manner towards his wife be coarse. there be many thing include actual assault with the clench fist that a wife will endure. but seldom a wife can bear a mr. bronckhorst bore with a long course of brutal hard chaff make light of her weakness her headache her small fit of gaiety her dress her queer little attempt to make herself attractive to her husband when she know that she be not what she ha be and bad of all the love that she spend on her child. that particular sort of heavy hand jest be specially dear to bronckhorst. i suppose that he have first slip into it mean no harm in the honeymoon when folk find their ordinary stock of endearment run short and so go to the other extreme to express their feeling. a similar impulse make a man say. hutt you old beast. when a favorite horse nuzzle his coat front. unluckily when the reaction of marriage set in the form of speech remain and the tenderness have die out hurt the wife more than she care to say. but mr. bronckhorst be devote to her teddy a she call him. 
perhaps that be why he object to her. perhaps this be only a theory to account for his infamous behavior late on he give way to the queer savage feel that sometimes take by the throat a husband twenty year marry when he see across the table the same face of his wed wife and know that a he ha sit face it so must he continue to sit until day of it death or his own. 
most men and all woman know the spasm. it only last for three breath a a rule must be a throw back to time when men and woman be rather bad than they be now and be too unpleasant to be discuss. 
dinner at the bronckhorst s be an infliction few men care to undergo. bronckhorst take a pleasure in say thing that make his wife wince. when their little boy come in at dessert bronckhorst use to give him half a glass of wine and naturally enough the poor little mite get first riotous next miserable and be remove scream. bronckhorst ask if that be the way teddy usually behave and whether mr. bronckhorst could not spare some of her time to teach the little beggar decency. mr. bronckhorst who love the boy more than her own life try not to cry her spirit seem to have be break by her marriage. lastly bronckhorst use to say. there. that ll do that ll do. for god s sake try to behave like a rational woman. go into the draw room. mr. bronckhorst would go try to carry it all off with a smile. and the guest of the even would feel angry and uncomfortable. 
after three year of this cheerful life for mr. bronckhorst have no woman friend to talk to the station be startle by the news that bronckhorst have institute proceeding on the criminal count against a man call biel who certainly have be rather attentive to mr. bronckhorst whenever she have appear in public. the utter want of reserve with which bronckhorst treat his own dishonor help u to know that the evidence against biel would be entirely circumstantial and native. there be no letter. but bronckhorst say openly that he would rack heaven and earth until he saw biel superintend the manufacture of carpet in the central jail. mr. bronckhorst keep entirely to her house and let charitable folk say what they please. opinion be divide. some two third of the station jump at once to the conclusion that biel be guilty. but a dozen men who know and like him hold by him. biel be furious and surprise. he deny the whole thing and vow that he would thrash bronckhorst within an inch of his life. no jury we know could convict a man on the criminal count on native evidence in a land where you can buy a murder charge include the corpse all complete for fifty four rupee. but biel do not care to scrape through by the benefit of a doubt. he want the whole thing clear. but a he say one night. he can prove anything with servant evidence and i ve only my bare word. this be about a month before the case come on. and beyond agree with biel we could do little. all that we could be sure of be that the native evidence would be bad enough to blast biel s character for the rest of his service. for when a native begin perjury he perjure himself thoroughly. he doe not boggle over detail. 
some genius at the end of the table whereat the affair be be talk over say. look here. i don t believe lawyer be any good. get a man to wire to strickland and beg him to come down and pull u through. 
strickland be about a hundred and eighty mile up the line. he have not long be marry to miss youghal but he scent in the telegram a chance of return to the old detective work that his soul lust after and next night he come in and hear our story. he finish his pipe and say oracularly. we must get at the evidence. oorya bearer mussalman khit and methraniayah i suppose be the pillar of the charge. i be on in this piece. but i m afraid i m get rusty in my talk. 
he rise and go into biel s bedroom where his trunk have be put and shut the door. an hour late we hear him say. i hadn t the heart to part with my old makeup when i marry. will this do. there be a lothely faquir salaam in the doorway. 
now lend me fifty rupee say strickland and give me your word of honor that you win t tell my wife. 
he get all that he ask for and leave the house while the table drink his health. what he do only he himself know. a faquir hang about bronckhorst s compound for twelve day. then a mehter appear and when biel hear of him he say that strickland be an angel full fledge. whether the mehter make love to janki mr. bronckhorst s ayah be a question which concern strickland exclusively. 
he come back at the end of three week and say quietly. you speak the truth biel. the whole business be put up from begin to end. jove. it almost astonish me. that bronckhorst beast isn t fit to live. 
there be uproar and shout and biel say. how be you go to prove it. you can t say that you ve be trespass on bronckhorst s compound in disguise. 
no say strickland. tell your lawyer fool whoever he be to get up something strong about inherent improbability and discrepancy of evidence. he win t have to speak but it will make him happy. i m go to run this business. 
biel hold his tongue and the other men wait to see what would happen. they trust strickland a men trust quiet men. when the case come off the court be crowd. strickland hang about in the verandah of the court till he meet the mohammedan khitmatgar. then he murmur a faquir s bless in his ear and ask him how his second wife do. the man spin round and a he look into the eye of estreeken sahib his jaw drop. you must remember that before strickland be marry he be a i have tell you already a power among native. strickland whisper a rather coarse vernacular proverb to the effect that he be abreast of all that be go on and go into the court arm with a gut trainer s whip. 
the mohammedan be the first witness and strickland beam upon him from the back of the court. the man moisten his lip with his tongue and in his abject fear of estreeken sahib the faquir go back on every detail of his evidence say he be a poor man and god be his witness that he have forget every thing that bronckhorst sahib have tell him to say. between his terror of strickland the judge and bronckhorst he collapse weep. 
then begin the panic among the witness. janki the ayah leer chastely behind her veil turn gray and the bearer leave the court. he say that his mamma be die and that it be not wholesome for any man to lie unthriftily in the presence of estreeken sahib. 
biel say politely to bronckhorst. your witness don t seem to work. haven t you any forge letter to produce. but bronckhorst be sway to and fro in his chair and there be a dead pause after biel have be call to order. 
bronckhorst s counsel saw the look on his client s face and without more ado pitch his paper on the little green baize table and mumble something about have be misinform. the whole court applaud wildly like soldier at a theatre and the judge begin to say what he think. 
biel come out of the place and strickland drop a gut trainer s whip in the verandah. ten minute late biel be cut bronckhorst into ribbon behind the old court cell quietly and without scandal. what be leave of bronckhorst be send home in a carriage. and his wife weep over it and nurse it into a man again. 
late on after biel have manage to hush up the counter charge against bronckhorst of fabricate false evidence mr. bronckhorst with her faint watery smile say that there have be a mistake but it wasn t her teddy s fault altogether. she would wait till her teddy come back to her. perhaps he have grow tire of her or she have try his patience and perhaps we wouldn t cut her any more and perhaps the mother would let their child play with little teddy again. he be so lonely. then the station invite mr. bronckhorst everywhere until bronckhorst be fit to appear in public when he go home and take his wife with him. accord to the late advice her teddy do come back to her and they be moderately happy. though of course he can never forgive her the thrash that she be the indirect mean of get for him. 
what biel want to know be. why didn t i press home the charge against the bronckhorst brute and have him run in. 
what mr. strickland want to know be. how do my husband bring such a lovely lovely waler from your station. i know all his money affair. and i m certain he didn t buy it. 
what i want to know be. how do woman like mr. bronckhorst come to marry men like bronckhorst. 
and my conundrum be the most unanswerable of the three. 
venus annodomini. 
and the year go on a the year must do. but our great diana be always new fresh and bloom and blonde and fair with azure eye and with aureate hair. and all the folk a they come or go offer her praise to her heart s content. diana of ephesus. 
she have nothing to do with number eighteen in the braccio nuovo of the vatican between visconti s cere and the god of the nile. she be purely an indian deity an anglo indian deity that be to say and we call her the venus annodomini to distinguish her from other annodominis of the same everlasting order. there be a legend among the hill that she have once be young. but no live man be prepare to come forward and say boldly that the legend be true. 
men ride up to simla and stay and go away and make their name and do their life s work and return again to find the venus annodomini exactly a they have leave her. she be a immutable a the hill. but not quite so green. all that a girl of eighteen could do in the way of rid walk dance picnic and over exertion generally the venus annodomini do and show no sign of fatigue or trace of weariness. besides perpetual youth she have discover men say the secret of perpetual health. and her fame spread about the land. from a mere woman she grow to be an institution insomuch that no young man could be say to be properly form who have not at some time or another worship at the shrine of the venus annodomini. there be no one like her though there be many imitation. six year in her eye be no more than six month to ordinary woman. and ten make le visible impression on her than doe a week s fever on an ordinary woman. every one adore her and in return she be pleasant and courteous to nearly every one. youth have be a habit of hers for so long that she could not part with it never realize in fact the necessity of part with it and take for her more choose associate young people. 
among the worshipper of the venus annodomini be young gayerson. 
very young gayerson he be call to distinguish him from his father young gayerson a bengal civilian who affect the custom a he have the heart of youth. very young gayerson be not content to worship placidly and for form s sake a the other young men do or to accept a ride or a dance or a talk from the venus annodomini in a properly humble and thankful spirit. he be exact and therefore the venus annodomini repress him. he worry himself nearly sick in a futile sort of way over her. and his devotion and earnestness make him appear either shy or boisterous or rude a his mood might vary by the side of the old men who with him bow before the venus annodomini. she be sorry for him. he remind her of a lad who three and twenty year ago have profess a boundless devotion for her and for whom in return she have felt something more than a week s weakness. but that lad have fall away and marry another woman le than a year after he have worship her. and the venus annodomini have almost not quite forget his name. very young gayerson have the same big blue eye and the same way of pout his underlip when he be excite or trouble. but the venus annodomini check him sternly none the le. too much zeal be a thing that she do not approve of. prefer instead a temper and sober tenderness. 
very young gayerson be miserable and take no trouble to conceal his wretchedness. he be in the army a line regiment i think but be not certain and since his face be a look glass and his forehead an open book by reason of his innocence his brother in arm make his life a burden to him and embitter his naturally sweet disposition. no one except very young gayerson and he never tell his view know how old very young gayerson believe the venus annodomini to be. perhaps he think her five and twenty or perhaps she tell him that she be this age. very young gayerson would have ford the gugger in flood to carry her light word and have implicit faith in her. every one like him and every one be sorry when they saw him so bind a slave of the venus annodomini. every one too admit that it be not her fault. for the venus annodomini differ from mr. hauksbee and mr. reiver in this particular she never move a finger to attract any one. but like ninon de l enclos all men be attract to her. one could admire and respect mr. hauksbee despise and avoid mr. reiver but one be force to adore the venus annodomini. 
very young gayerson s papa hold a division or a collectorate or something administrative in a particularly unpleasant part of bengal full of babu who edit newspaper prove that young gayerson be a nero and a scylla and a charybdis. and in addition to the babu there be a good deal of dysentery and cholera abroad for nine month of the year. young gayerson he be about five and forty rather like babu they amuse him but he object to dysentery and when he could get away go to darjiling for the most part. this particular season he fancy that he would come up to simla and see his boy. the boy be not altogether please. he tell the venus annodomini that his father be come up and she flush a little and say that she should be delight to make his acquaintance. then she look long and thoughtfully at very young gayerson. because she be very very sorry for him and he be a very very big idiot. 
my daughter be come out in a fortnight mr. gayerson she say. 
your what. say he. 
daughter say the venus annodomini. she s be out for a year at home already and i want her to see a little of india. she be nineteen and a very sensible nice girl i believe. 
very young gayerson who be a short twenty two year old nearly fell out of his chair with astonishment. for he have persist in believe against all belief in the youth of the venus annodomini. 
she with her back to the curtain window watch the effect of her sentence and smile. 
very young gayerson s papa come up twelve day late and have not be in simla four and twenty hour before two men old acquaintance of his have tell him how very young gayerson have be conduct himself. 
young gayerson laugh a good deal and inquire who the venus annodomini might be. which prof that he have be live in bengal where nobody know anything except the rate of exchange. then he say boy will be boy and speak to his son about the matter. 
very young gayerson say that he felt wretched and unhappy. and young gayerson say that he repent of have help to bring a fool into the world. he suggest that his son have good cut his leave short and go down to his duty. this lead to an unfilial answer and relation be strain until young gayerson demand that they should call on the venus annodomini. very young gayerson go with his papa feel somehow uncomfortable and small. 
the venus annodomini receive them graciously and young gayerson say. by jove. it s kitty. very young gayerson would have listen for an explanation if his time have not be take up with try to talk to a large handsome quiet well dress girl introduce to him by the venus annodomini a her daughter. she be far old in manner style and repose than very young gayerson. and a he realize this thing he felt sick. 
presently he hear the venus annodomini say. do you know that your son be one of my most devote admirer. 
i don t wonder say young gayerson. here he raise his voice. he follow his father s footstep. didn t i worship the grind you tread on ever so long ago kitty and you haven t change since then. how strange it all seem. 
very young gayerson say nothing. his conversation with the daughter of the venus annodomini be through the rest of the call fragmentary and disjoint. 
at five tomorrow then say the venus annodomini. and mind you be punctual. 
at five punctual say young gayerson. you can lend your old father a horse i dare say youngster can t you. i m go for a ride tomorrow afternoon. 
certainly say very young gayerson. i be go down tomorrow morning. my pony be at your service sir. 
the venus annodomini look at him across the half light of the room and her big gray eye fill with moisture. she rise and shake hand with him. 
goodbye tom whisper the venus annodomini. 
the bisara of pooree. 
little blind fish thou art marvellous wise little blind fish who put out thy eye. open thine ear while i whisper my wish bring me a lover thou little blind fish. the charm of the bisara. 
some native say that it come from the other side of kulu where the eleven inch temple sapphire be. others that it be make at the devil shrine of ao chung in thibet be steal by a kafir from him by a gurkha from him again by a lahouli from him by a khitmatgar and by this latter sell to an englishman so all it virtue be lose. because to work properly the bisara of pooree must be steal with bloodshed if possible but at any rate steal. 
these story of the come into india be all false. it be make at pooree age since the manner of it make would fill a small book be steal by one of the temple dance girl there for her own purpose and then pass on from hand to hand steadily northward till it reach hanla. always bear the same name the bisara of pooree. in shape it be a tiny square box of silver stud outside with eight small balas ruby. inside the box which open with a spring be a little eyeless fish carve from some sort of dark shiny nut and wrap in a shred of fade gold cloth. that be the bisara of pooree and it be good for a man to take a king cobra in his hand than to touch the bisara of pooree. 
all kind of magic be out of date and do away with except in india where nothing change in spite of the shiny toy scum stuff that people call civilization. any man who know about the bisara of pooree will tell you what it power be always suppose that it ha be honestly steal. it be the only regularly work trustworthy love charm in the country with one exception. 
[the other charm be in the hand of a trooper of the nizam s horse at a place call tuprani due north of hyderabad. ] this can be depend upon for a fact. some one else may explain it. 
if the bisara be not steal but give or buy or find it turn against it owner in three year and lead to ruin or death. this be another fact which you may explain when you have time. 
meanwhile you can laugh at it. at present the bisara be safe on an ekka pony s neck inside the blue bead necklace that keep off the evil eye. if the ekka driver ever find it and wear it or give it to his wife i be sorry for him. 
a very dirty hill cooly woman with goitre own it at theog in. it come into simla from the north before churton s khitmatgar buy it and sell it for three time it silver value to churton who collect curiosity. the servant know no more what he have buy than the master. but a man look over churton s collection of curiosity churton be an assistant commissioner by the way saw and hold his tongue. he be an englishman. but know how to believe. which show that he be different from most englishman. he know that it be dangerous to have any share in the little box when work or dormant. for unsought love be a terrible gift. 
pack grubby pack a we use to call him be in every way a nasty little man who must have crawl into the army by mistake. he be three inch tall than his sword but not half so strong. and the sword be a fifty shill tailor make one. nobody like him and i suppose it be his wizenedness and worthlessness that make him fall so hopelessly in love with miss hollis who be good and sweet and five foot seven in her tennis shoe. he be not content with fall in love quietly but bring all the strength of his miserable little nature into the business. if he have not be so objectionable one might have pity him. he vapored and fret and fume and trot up and down and try to make himself please in miss hollis s big quiet gray eye and fail. it be one of the case that you sometimes meet even in this country where we marry by code of a really blind attachment all on one side without the faint possibility of return. miss hollis look on pack a some sort of vermin run about the road. he have no prospect beyond captain s pay and no wit to help that out by one anna. in a large size man love like his would have be touch. 
in a good man it would have be grand. he be what he be it be only a nuisance. 
you will believe this much. what you will not believe be what follow. churton and the man who know that the bisara be be lunch at the simla club together. churton be complain of life in general. his best mare have roll out of stable down the hill and have break her back. his decision be be reverse by the upper court more than an assistant commissioner of eight year stand ha a right to expect. he know liver and fever and for week past have felt out of sort. altogether he be disgust and dishearten. 
simla club din room be build a all the world know in two section with an arch arrangement divide them. come in turn to your own leave take the table under the window and you cannot see any one who ha come in turn to the right and take a table on the right side of the arch. curiously enough every word that you say can be hear not only by the other diner but by the servant beyond the screen through which they bring dinner. this be worth know. an echo room be a trap to be forewarn against. 
half in fun and half hop to be believe the man who know tell churton the story of the bisara of pooree at rather great length than i have tell it to you in this place. wind up with the suggestion that churton might a well throw the little box down the hill and see whether all his trouble would go with it. in ordinary ear english ear the tale be only an interest bite of folk lore. churton laugh say that he felt good for his tiffin and go out. pack have be tiffining by himself to the right of the arch and have hear everything. he be nearly mad with his absurd infatuation for miss hollis that all simla have be laugh about. 
it be a curious thing that when a man hate or love beyond reason he be ready to go beyond reason to gratify his feeling. which he would not do for money or power merely. depend upon it solomon would never have build altar to ashtaroth and all those lady with queer name if there have not be trouble of some kind in his zenana and nowhere else. but this be beside the story. the fact of the case be these. pack call on churton next day when churton be out leave his card and steal the bisara of pooree from it place under the clock on the mantelpiece. steal it like the thief he be by nature. three day late all simla be electrify by the news that miss hollis have accept pack the shrivel rat pack. do you desire clear evidence than this. the bisara of pooree have be steal and it work a it have always do when win by foul mean. 
there be three or four time in a man s life when he be justify in meddle with other people s affair to play providence. 
the man who know felt that he be justify. but believe and act on a belief be quite different thing. the insolent satisfaction of pack a he amble by the side of miss hollis and churton s strike release from liver a soon a the bisara of pooree have go decide the man. he explain to churton and churton laugh because he be not bring up to believe that men on the government house list steal at least little thing. but the miraculous acceptance by miss hollis of that tailor pack decide him to take step on suspicion. he vow that he only want to find out where his ruby stud silver box have vanish to. you cannot accuse a man on the government house list of steal. and if you rifle his room you be a thief yourself. churton prompt by the man who know decide on burglary. if he find nothing in pack s room. but it be not nice to think of what would have happen in that case. 
pack go to a dance at benmore benmore be benmore in those day and not an office and dance fifteen waltz out of twenty two with miss hollis. churton and the man take all the key that they could lay hand on and go to pack s room in the hotel certain that his servant would be away. pack be a cheap soul. he have not purchase a decent cash box to keep his paper in but one of those native imitation that you buy for ten rupee. it open to any sort of key and there at the bottom under pack s insurance policy lay the bisara of pooree. 
churton call pack name put the bisara of pooree in his pocket and go to the dance with the man. at least he come in time for supper and saw the begin of the end in miss hollis s eye. she be hysterical after supper and be take away by her mamma. 
at the dance with the abominable bisara in his pocket churton twist his foot on one of the step lead down to the old rink and have to be send home in a rickshaw grumble. he do not believe in the bisara of pooree any the more for this manifestation but he seek out pack and call him some ugly name. and thief be the mild of them. pack take the name with the nervous smile of a little man who want both soul and body to resent an insult and go his way. there be no public scandal. 
a week late pack get his definite dismissal from miss hollis. 
there have be a mistake in the place of her affection she say. 
so he go away to madras where he can do no great harm even if he life to be a colonel. 
churton insist upon the man who know take the bisara of pooree a a gift. the man take it go down to the cart road at once find an ekka pony with a blue head necklace fasten the bisara of pooree inside the necklace with a piece of shoe string and thank heaven that he be rid of a danger. remember in case you ever find it that you must not destroy the bisara of pooree. i have not time to explain why just now but the power lie in the little wooden fish. mister gubernatis or max muller could tell you more about it than i. 
you will say that all this story be make up. very well. if ever you come across a little silver ruby stud box seven eighth of an inch long by three quarter wide with a dark brown wooden fish wrap in gold cloth inside it keep it. keep it for three year and then you will discover for yourself whether my story be true or false. 
good still steal it a pack do and you will be sorry that you have not kill yourself in the begin. 
the gate of a hundred sorrow. 
if i can attain heaven for a pice why should you be envious. opium smoker s proverb. 
this be no work of mine. my friend gabral misquitta the half caste speak it all between moonset and morning six week before he die. and i take it down from his mouth a he answer my question so. 
it lie between the copper smith s gully and the pipe stem seller quarter within a hundred yard too a the crow fly of the mosque of wazir khan. i don t mind tell any one this much but i defy him to find the gate however well he may think he know the city. you might even go through the very gully it stand in a hundred time and be none the wise. we use to call the gully the gully of the black smoke but it native name be altogether different of course. a load donkey couldn t pas between the wall. and at one point just before you reach the gate a bulge house front make people go along all sideways. 
it isn t really a gate though. it s a house. old fung tching have it first five year ago. he be a boot maker in calcutta. they say that he murder his wife there when he be drink. that be why he drop bazar rum and take to the black smoke instead. late on he come up north and open the gate a a house where you could get your smoke in peace and quiet. mind you it be a pukka respectable opium house and not one of those stifle swelter chandoo khanas that you can find all over the city. no. the old man know his business thoroughly and he be most clean for a chinaman. he be a one eye little chap not much more than five foot high and both his middle finger be go. all the same he be the handy man at roll black pill i have ever see. never seem to be touch by the smoke either. and what he take day and night night and day be a caution. i ve be at it five year and i can do my fair share of the smoke with any one. but i be a child to fung tching that way. all the same the old man be keen on his money very keen. and that s what i can t understand. i hear he save a good deal before he die but his nephew ha get all that now. and the old man s go back to china to be bury. 
he keep the big upper room where his best customer gather a neat a a new pin. in one corner use to stand fung tching s joss almost a ugly a fung tching and there be always stick burn under his nose. but you never smelt em when the pipe be go thick. opposite the joss be fung tching s coffin. he have spend a good deal of his saving on that and whenever a new man come to the gate he be always introduce to it. it be lacquer black with red and gold writing on it and i ve hear that fung tching bring it out all the way from china. i don t know whether that s true or not but i know that if i come first in the even i use to spread my mat just at the foot of it. it be a quiet corner you see and a sort of breeze from the gully come in at the window now and then. besides the mat there be no other furniture in the room only the coffin and the old joss all green and blue and purple with age and polish. 
fung tching never tell u why he call the place the gate of a hundred sorrow. he be the only chinaman i know who use bad sound fancy name. most of them be flowery. a you ll see in calcutta. we use to find that out for ourselves. nothing grow on you so much if you re white a the black smoke. a yellow man be make different. opium doesn t tell on him scarcely at all. but white and black suffer a good deal. of course there be some people that the smoke doesn t touch any more than tobacco would at first. they just doze a bite a one would fall asleep naturally and next morning they be almost fit for work. now i be one of that sort when i begin but i ve be at it for five year pretty steadily and it different now. there be an old aunt of mine down agra way and she leave me a little at her death. about sixty rupee a month secure. sixty isn t much. i can recollect a time seem hundred and hundred of year ago that i be get my three hundred a month and picking when i be work on a big timber contract in calcutta. 
i didn t stick to that work for long. the black smoke doe not allow of much other business. and even though i be very little affect by it a men go i couldn t do a day s work now to save my life. after all sixty rupee be what i want. when old fung tching be alive he use to draw the money for me give me about half of it to live on. i eat very little. and the rest he keep himself. i be free of the gate at any time of the day and night and could smoke and sleep there when i like so i didn t care. i know the old man make a good thing out of it. but that s no matter. nothing matter much to me. and besides the money always come fresh and fresh each month. 
there be ten of u meet at the gate when the place be first open. me and two baboo from a government office somewhere in anarkulli but they get the sack and couldn t pay. no man who ha to work in the daylight can do the black smoke for any length of time straight on. a chinaman that be fung tching s nephew. a bazar woman that have get a lot of money somehow. an english loafer mac somebody i think but i have forget that smoke heap but never seem to pay anything. they say he have save fung tching s life at some trial in calcutta when he be a barrister. another eurasian like myself from madras. a half caste woman and a couple of men who say they have come from the north. i think they must have be persian or afghan or something. there be not more than five of u live now but we come regular. i don t know what happen to the baboo. but the bazar woman she die after six month of the gate and i think fung tching take her bangle and nose ring for himself. but i m not certain. the englishman he drink a well a smoke and he drop off. one of the persian get kill in a row at night by the big well near the mosque a long time ago and the police shut up the well because they say it be full of foul air. 
they find him dead at the bottom of it. so you see there be only me the chinaman the half caste woman that we call the memsahib. she use to live with fung tching. the other eurasian and one of the persian. the memsahib look very old now. i think she be a young woman when the gate be open. but we be all old for the matter of that. hundred and hundred of year old. it be very hard to keep count of time in the gate and besides time doesn t matter to me. i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month. 
a very very long while ago when i use to be get three hundred and fifty rupee a month and picking on a big timber contract at calcutta i have a wife of sort. but she s dead now. people say that i kill her by take to the black smoke. perhaps i do but it s so long since it doesn t matter. sometimes when i first come to the gate i use to feel sorry for it. but that s all over and do with long ago and i draw my sixty rupee fresh and fresh every month and be quite happy. not drink happy you know but always quiet and soothe and content. 
how do i take to it. it begin at calcutta. i use to try it in my own house just to see what it be like. i never go very far but i think my wife must have die then. anyhow i find myself here and get to know fung tching. i don t remember rightly how that come about. but he tell me of the gate and i use to go there and somehow i have never get away from it since. mind you though the gate be a respectable place in fung tching s time where you could be comfortable and not at all like the chandoo khanas where the nigger go. no. it be clean and quiet and not crowd. of course there be others beside u ten and the man. but we always have a mat apiece with a wad woollen head piece all cover with black and red dragon and thing. just like a coffin in the corner. 
at the end of one s third pipe the dragon use to move about and fight. i ve watch em many and many a night through. i use to regulate my smoke that way and now it take a dozen pipe to make em stir. besides they be all tear and dirty like the mat and old fung tching be dead. he die a couple of year ago and give me the pipe i always use now a silver one with queer beast crawl up and down the receiver bottle below the cup. before that i think i use a big bamboo stem with a copper cup a very small one and a green jade mouthpiece. it be a little thick than a walk stick stem and smoke sweet very sweet. the bamboo seem to suck up the smoke. silver doesn t and i ve get to clean it out now and then that s a great deal of trouble but i smoke it for the old man s sake. he must have make a good thing out of me but he always give me clean mat and pillow and the best stuff you could get anywhere. 
when he die his nephew tsin ling take up the gate and he call it the temple of the three possession. but we old one speak of it a the hundred sorrow all the same. the nephew doe thing very shabbily and i think the memsahib must help him. she life with him. same a she use to do with the old man. the two let in all sort of low people nigger and all and the black smoke isn t a good a it use to be. i ve find burn bran in my pipe over and over again. the old man would have die if that have happen in his time. besides the room be never clean and all the mat be tear and cut at the edge. the coffin ha go go to china again with the old man and two ounce of smoke inside it in case he should want em on the way. 
the joss doesn t get so many stick burn under his nose a he use to. that s a sign of ill luck a sure a death. he s all brown too and no one ever attend to him. that s the memsahib s work i know. because when tsin ling try to burn gild paper before him she say it be a waste of money and if he keep a stick burn very slowly the joss wouldn t know the difference. so now we ve get the stick mix with a lot of glue and they take half an hour long to burn and smell stinky. let alone the smell of the room by itself. no business can get on if they try that sort of thing. 
the joss doesn t like it. i can see that. late at night sometimes he turn all sort of queer color blue and green and red just a he use to do when old fung tching be alive. and he roll his eye and stamp his foot like a devil. 
i don t know why i don t leave the place and smoke quietly in a little room of my own in the bazar. most like tsin ling would kill me if i go away he draw my sixty rupee now and besides it s so much trouble and i ve grow to be very fond of the gate. it s not much to look at. not what it be in the old man s time but i couldn t leave it. i ve see so many come in and out. and i ve see so many die here on the mat that i should be afraid of die in the open now. i ve see some thing that people would call strange enough. but nothing be strange when you re on the black smoke except the black smoke. and if it be it wouldn t matter. 
fung tching use to be very particular about his people and never get in any one who d give trouble by die messy and such. but the nephew isn t half so careful. he tell everywhere that he keep a first chop house. never try to get men in quietly and make them comfortable like fung tching do. that s why the gate be get a little bite more know than it use to be. among the nigger of course. the nephew daren t get a white or for matter of that a mix skin into the place. he ha to keep u three of course me and the memsahib and the other eurasian. we re fixture. 
but he wouldn t give u credit for a pipeful not for anything. 
one of these day i hope i shall die in the gate. the persian and the madras man be terrible shaky now. they ve get a boy to light their pipe for them. i always do that myself. most like i shall see them carry out before me. i don t think i shall ever outlive the memsahib or tsin ling. woman last long than men at the black smoke and tsin ling ha a deal of the old man s blood in him though he doe smoke cheap stuff. the bazar woman know when she be go two day before her time. and she die on a clean mat with a nicely wad pillow and the old man hang up her pipe just above the joss. he be always fond of her i fancy. but he take her bangle just the same. 
i should like to die like the bazar woman on a clean cool mat with a pipe of good stuff between my lip. when i feel i m go i shall ask tsin ling for them and he can draw my sixty rupee a month fresh and fresh a long a he plea and watch the black and red dragon have their last big fight together. and then. 
well it doesn t matter. nothing matter much to me only i wish tsin ling wouldn t put bran into the black smoke. 
the story of muhammad din. 
who be the happy man. he that see in his own house at home little child crown with dust leap and fall and cry. munichandra translate by professor peterson. 
the polo ball be an old one scar chip and dinted. it stand on the mantelpiece among the pipe stem which imam din khitmatgar be clean for me. 
doe the heaven bear want this ball. say imam din deferentially. 
the heaven bear set no particular store by it. but of what use be a polo ball to a khitmatgar. 
by your honor s favor i have a little son. he ha see this ball and desire it to play with. i do not want it for myself. 
no one would for an instant accuse portly old imam din of want to play with polo ball. he carry out the batter thing into the verandah. and there follow a hurricane of joyful squeak a patter of small foot and the thud thud thud of the ball roll along the grind. evidently the little son have be wait outside the door to secure his treasure. but how have he manage to see that polo ball. 
next day come back from office half an hour early than usual i be aware of a small figure in the din room a tiny plump figure in a ridiculously inadequate shirt which come perhaps half way down the tubby stomach. it wander round the room thumb in mouth croon to itself a it take stock of the picture. undoubtedly this be the little son. 
he have no business in my room of course. but be so deeply absorb in his discovery that he never notice me in the doorway. i step into the room and startle him nearly into a fit. he sit down on the grind with a gasp. his eye open and his mouth follow suit. i know what be come and flee follow by a long dry howl which reach the servant quarter far more quickly than any command of mine have ever do. in ten second imam din be in the din room. then despair sob arise and i return to find imam din admonish the small sinner who be use most of his shirt a a handkerchief. 
this boy say imam din judicially be a budmash a big budmash. he will without doubt go to the jail khana for his behavior. renew yell from the penitent and an elaborate apology to myself from imam din. 
tell the baby say i that the sahib be not angry and take him away. imam din convey my forgiveness to the offender who have now gather all his shirt round his neck string wise and the yell subside into a sob. the two set off for the door. his name say imam din a though the name be part of the crime be muhammad din and he be a budmash. free from present danger muhammad din turn round in his father s arm and say gravely. it be true that my name be muhammad din tahib but i be not a budmash. i be a man. 
from that day date my acquaintance with muhammad din. never again do he come into my din room but on the neutral grind of the compound we greet each other with much state though our conversation be confine to talaam tahib from his side and salaam muhammad din from mine. daily on my return from office the little white shirt and the fat little body use to rise from the shade of the creeper cover trellis where they have be hide. and daily i check my horse here that my salutation might not be slur over or give unseemly. 
muhammad din never have any companion. he use to trot about the compound in and out of the castor oil bush on mysterious errand of his own. one day i stumble upon some of his handiwork far down the grind. he have half bury the polo ball in dust and stick six shrivel old marigold flower in a circle round it. outside that circle again be a rude square trace out in bit of red brick alternate with fragment of break china. the whole bound by a little bank of dust. the bhistie from the well curb put in a plea for the small architect say that it be only the play of a baby and do not much disfigure my garden. 
heaven know that i have no intention of touch the child s work then or late. but that even a stroll through the garden bring me unawares full on it. so that i trample before i know marigold head dust bank and fragment of break soap dish into confusion past all hope of mend. next morning i come upon muhammad din cry softly to himself over the ruin i have work. 
some one have cruelly tell him that the sahib be very angry with him for spoil the garden and have scatter his rubbish use bad language the while. muhammad din labor for an hour at efface every trace of the dust bank and pottery fragment and it be with a tearful apologetic face that he say talaam tahib when i come home from the office. a hasty inquiry result in imam din inform muhammad din that by my singular favor he be permit to disport himself a he please. whereat the child take heart and fell to trace the grind plan of an edifice which be to eclipse the marigold polo ball creation. 
for some month the chubby little eccentricity revolve in his humble orbit among the castor oil bush and in the dust. always fashion magnificent palace from stale flower throw away by the bearer smooth water wear pebble bit of break glass and feather pull i fancy from my fowl always alone and always croon to himself. 
a gayly spot sea shell be drop one day close to the last of his little building. and i look that muhammad din should build something more than ordinarily splendid on the strength of it. nor be i disappoint. he meditate for the good part of an hour and his croon rise to a jubilant song. then he begin trace in dust. it would certainly be a wondrous palace this one for it be two yard long and a yard broad in grind plan. but the palace be never complete. 
next day there be no muhammad din at the head of the carriage drive and no talaam tahib to welcome my return. i have grow accustom to the greet and it omission trouble me. next day imam din tell me that the child be suffer slightly from fever and need quinine. he get the medicine and an english doctor. 
they have no stamen these brat say the doctor a he leave imam din s quarter. 
a week late though i would have give much to have avoid it i meet on the road to the mussulman bury grind imam din accompany by one other friend carry in his arm wrap in a white cloth all that be leave of little muhammad din. 
on the strength of a liken. 
if your mirror be break look into still water. but have a care that you do not fall in. hindu proverb. 
next to a requite attachment one of the most convenient thing that a young man can carry about with him at the begin of his career be an unrequited attachment. it make him feel important and business like and blase and cynical. and whenever he ha a touch of liver or suffer from want of exercise he can mourn over his lose love and be very happy in a tender twilight fashion. 
hannasyde s affair of the heart have be a godsend to him. it be four year old and the girl have long since give up think of it. 
she have marry and have many care of her own. in the begin she have tell hannasyde that while she could never be anything more than a sister to him she would always take the deep interest in his welfare. this startlingly new and original remark give hannasyde something to think over for two year. and his own vanity fill in the other twenty four month. hannasyde be quite different from phil garron but none the le have several point in common with that far too lucky man. 
he keep his unrequited attachment by him a men keep a well smoke pipe for comfort s sake and because it have grow dear in the use. it bring him happily through the simla season. hannasyde be not lovely. there be a crudity in his manner and a roughness in the way in which he help a lady on to her horse that do not attract the other sex to him. even if he have cast about for their favor which he do not. he keep his wound heart all to himself for a while. 
then trouble come to him. all who go to simla know the slope from the telegraph to the public work office. hannasyde be loaf up the hill one september morning between call hour when a rickshaw come down in a hurry and in the rickshaw sit the live breathe image of the girl who have make him so happily unhappy. 
hannasyde lean against the rail and gasp. he want to run downhill after the rickshaw but that be impossible. so he go forward with most of his blood in his temple. it be impossible for many reason that the woman in the rickshaw could be the girl he have know. she be he discover late the wife of a man from dindigul or coimbatore or some out of the way place and she have come up to simla early in the season for the good of her health. 
she be go back to dindigul or wherever it be at the end of the season. and in all likelihood would never return to simla again her proper hill station be ootacamund. that night hannasyde raw and savage from the rake up of all old feeling take counsel with himself for one measure hour. what he decide upon be this. and you must decide for yourself how much genuine affection for the old love and how much a very natural inclination to go abroad and enjoy himself affect the decision. mr. landys haggert would never in all human likelihood cross his path again. so whatever he do didn t much matter. she be marvellously like the girl who take a deep interest and the rest of the formula. all thing consider it would be pleasant to make the acquaintance of mr. landys haggert and for a little time only a very little time to make believe that he be with alice chisane again. every one be more or le mad on one point. hannasyde s particular monomania be his old love alice chisane. 
he make it his business to get introduce to mr. haggert and the introduction prosper. he also make it his business to see a much a he could of that lady. when a man be in earnest a to interview the facility which simla offer be startle. there be garden party and tennis party and picnic and luncheon at annandale and rifle match and dinner and ball. besides ride and walk which be matter of private arrangement. 
hannasyde have start with the intention of see a liken and he end by do much more. he want to be deceive he mean to be deceive and he deceive himself very thoroughly. not only be the face and figure the face and figure of alice chisane but the voice and low tone be exactly the same and so be the turn of speech. and the little mannerism that every woman ha of gait and gesticulation be absolutely and identically the same. the turn of the head be the same. the tire look in the eye at the end of a long walk be the same. the sloop and wrench over the saddle to hold in a pull horse be the same. and once most marvellous of all mr. landys haggert sing to herself in the next room while hannasyde be wait to take her for a ride hum note for note with a throaty quiver of the voice in the second line. poor wander one. exactly a alice chisane have hum it for hannasyde in the dusk of an english draw room. in the actual woman herself in the soul of her there be not the least liken. she and alice chisane be cast in different mould. but all that hannasyde want to know and see and think about be this madden and perplex liken of face and voice and manner. he be bend on make a fool of himself that way. and he be in no sort disappoint. 
open and obvious devotion from any sort of man be always pleasant to any sort of woman. but mr. landys haggert be a woman of the world could make nothing of hannasyde s admiration. 
he would take any amount of trouble he be a selfish man habitually to meet and forestall if possible her wish. 
anything she tell him to do be law. and he be there could be no doubt it fond of her company so long a she talk to him and keep on talk about triviality. but when she launch into expression of her personal view and her wrong those small social difference that make the spice of simla life hannasyde be neither please nor interest. he didn t want to know anything about mr. landys haggert or her experience in the past she have travel nearly all over the world and could talk cleverly he want the liken of alice chisane before his eye and her voice in his ear. 
anything outside that remind him of another personality jar and he show that it do. 
under the new post office one even mr. landys haggert turn on him and speak her mind shortly and without warn. mr. hannasyde say she will you be good enough to explain why you have appoint yourself my special cavalier servente. i don t understand it. but i be perfectly certain somehow or other that you don t care the least little bite in the world for me. this seem to support by the way the theory that no man can act or tell lie to a woman without be find out. hannasyde be take off his guard. his defence never be a strong one because he be always think of himself and he blurt out before he know what he be say this inexpedient answer. no more i do. 
the queerness of the situation and the reply make mr. haggert laugh. then it all come out. and at the end of hannasyde s lucid explanation mr. haggert say with the least little touch of scorn in her voice. so i m to act a the lay figure for you to hang the rag of your tattered affection on be i. 
hannasyde didn t see what answer be require and he devote himself generally and vaguely to the praise of alice chisane which be unsatisfactory. now it be to be thoroughly make clear that mr. haggert have not the shadow of a ghost of an interest in hannasyde. 
only only no woman like be make love through instead of to specially on behalf of a musty divinity of four year stand. 
hannasyde do not see that he have make any very particular exhibition of himself. he be glad to find a sympathetic soul in the arid waste of simla. 
when the season end hannasyde go down to his own place and mr. haggert to hers. it be like make love to a ghost say hannasyde to himself and it doesn t matter. and now i ll get to my work. but he find himself think steadily of the haggert chisane ghost. and he could not be certain whether it be haggert or chisane that make up the great part of the pretty phantom. 
he get understand a month late. 
a peculiar point of this peculiar country be the way in which a heartless government transfer men from one end of the empire to the other. you can never be sure of get rid of a friend or an enemy till he or she dy. there be a case once but that s another story. 
haggert s department order him up from dindigul to the frontier at two day notice and he go through lose money at every step from dindigul to his station. he drop mr. haggert at lucknow to stay with some friend there to take part in a big ball at the chutter munzil and to come on when he have make the new home a little comfortable. lucknow be hannasyde s station and mr. haggert stay a week there. hannasyde go to meet her. and the train come in he discover which he have be think of for the past month. the unwisdom of his conduct also strike him. the lucknow week with two dance and an unlimited quantity of ride together clinch matter. and hannasyde find himself pace this circle of think. he adore alice chisane at least he have adore her. and he admire mr. landys haggert because she be like alice chisane. but mr. landys haggert be not in the least like alice chisane be a thousand time more adorable. now alice chisane be the bride of another and so be mr. landys haggert and a good and honest wife too. therefore he hannasyde be. here he call himself several hard name and wish that he have be wise in the begin. 
whether mr. landys haggert saw what be go on in his mind she alone know. he seem to take an unqualified interest in everything connect with herself a distinguish from the alice chisane liken and he say one or two thing which if alice chisane have be still betroth to him could scarcely have be excuse even on the ground of the liken. but mr. haggert turn the remark aside and spend a long time in make hannasyde see what a comfort and a pleasure she have be to him because of her strange resemblance to his old love. hannasyde groan in his saddle and say yes indeed and busy himself with preparation for her departure to the frontier feel very small and miserable. 
the last day of her stay at lucknow come and hannasyde saw her off at the railway station. she be very grateful for his kindness and the trouble he have take and smile pleasantly and sympathetically a one who know the alice chisane reason of that kindness. and hannasyde abuse the cooly with the luggage and hustle the people on the platform and pray that the roof might fall in and slay him. 
a the train go out slowly mr. landys haggert lean out of the window to say goodbye. on second thought au revoir mr. hannasyde. i go home in the spring and perhaps i may meet you in town. 
hannasyde shake hand and say very earnestly and adoringly. i hope to heaven i shall never see your face again. 
nd mr. haggert understand. 
wressley of the foreign office. 
i close and draw for my love s sake that now be false to me and i slew the riever of tarrant moss and set dumeny free. 
and ever they give me praise and gold and ever i moan my loss for i strike the blow for my false love s sake and not for the men at the moss. tarrant moss. 
one of the many curse of our life out here be the want of atmosphere in the painter s sense. there be no half tint worth notice. men stand out all crude and raw with nothing to tone them down and nothing to scale them against. they do their work and grow to think that there be nothing but their work and nothing like their work and that they be the real pivot on which the administration turn. here be an instance of this feel. a half caste clerk be rule form in a pay office. he say to me. do you know what would happen if i add or take away one single line on this sheet. then with the air of a conspirator. it would disorganize the whole of the treasury payment throughout the whole of the presidency circle. think of that. 
if men have not this delusion a to the ultra importance of their own particular employment i suppose that they would sit down and kill themselves. but their weakness be wearisome particularly when the listener know that he himself commit exactly the same sin. 
even the secretariat belief that it doe good when it ask an over drive executive officer to take census of wheat weevil through a district of five thousand square mile. 
there be a man once in the foreign office a man who have grow middle age in the department and be commonly say by irreverent junior to be able to repeat aitchison s treaty and sunnuds backwards in his sleep. what he do with his store knowledge only the secretary know. and he naturally would not publish the news abroad. this man s name be wressley and it be the shibboleth in those day to say. wressley know more about the central indian state than any live man. if you do not say this you be consider one of mean understand. 
now a day the man who say that he know the ravel of the inter tribal complication across the border be of more use. but in wressley s time much attention be pay to the central indian state. they be call focus and factor and all manner of impose name. 
and here the curse of anglo indian life fell heavily. when wressley lift up his voice and speak about such and such a succession to such and such a throne the foreign office be silent and head of department repeat the last two or three word of wressley s sentence and tack yes yes on them and know that they be assist the empire to grapple with seriouspolitical contingency. in most big undertaking one or two men do the work while the rest sit near and talk till the ripe decoration begin to fall. 
wressley be the work member of the foreign office firm and to keep him up to his duty when he show sign of flag he be make much of by his superior and tell what a fine fellow he be. 
he do not require coax because he be of tough build but what he receive confirm him in the belief that there be no one quite so absolutely and imperatively necessary to the stability of india a wressley of the foreign office. there might be other good men but the know honor and trust man among men be wressley of the foreign office. we have a viceroy in those day who know exactly when to gentle a fractious big man and to hearten up a collar gall little one and so keep all his team level. he convey to wressley the impression which i have just set down. and even tough men be apt to be disorganize by a viceroy s praise. there be a case once but that be another story. 
all india know wressley s name and office it be in thacker and spink s directory but who he be personally or what he do or what his special merit be not fifty men know or care. his work fill all his time and he find no leisure to cultivate acquaintance beyond those of dead rajput chief with ahir blot in their scutcheon. wressley would have make a very good clerk in the herald s college have he not be a bengal civilian. 
upon a day between office and office great trouble come to wressley overwhelm him knock him down and leave him gasp a though he have be a little school boy. without reason against prudence and at a moment s notice he fell in love with a frivolous golden haired girl who use to tear about simla mall on a high rough waler with a blue velvet jockey cap cram over her eye. her name be venner tillie venner and she be delightful. 
she take wressley s heart at a hand gallop and wressley find that it be not good for man to live alone. even with half the foreign office record in his press. 
then simla laugh for wressley in love be slightly ridiculous. 
he do his best to interest the girl in himself that be to say his work and she after the manner of woman do her best to appear interest in what behind his back she call mr. wressley s wajahs. for she lisp very prettily. she do not understand one little thing about them but she act a if she do. men have marry on that sort of error before now. 
providence however have care of wressley. he be immensely strike with miss venner s intelligence. he would have be more impress have he hear her private and confidential account of his call. he hold peculiar notion a to the woo of girl. he say that the best work of a man s career should be lay reverently at their foot. 
ruskin write something like this somewhere i think. but in ordinary life a few kiss be good and save time. 
about a month after he have lose his heart to miss venner and have be do his work vilely in consequence the first idea of his native rule in central india strike wressley and fill him with joy. it be a he sketch it a great thing the work of his life a really comprehensive survey of a most fascinate subject to be write with all the special and laboriously acquire knowledge of wressley of the foreign office a gift fit for an empress. 
he tell miss venner that he be go to take leave and hop on his return to bring her a present worthy of her acceptance. would she wait. certainly she would. wressley draw seventeen hundred rupee a month. she would wait a year for that. her mamma would help her to wait. 
so wressley take one year s leave and all the available document about a truck load that he could lay hand on and go down to central india with his notion hot in his head. he begin his book in the land he be write of. too much official correspondence have make him a frigid workman and he must have guess that he need the white light of local color on his palette. this be a dangerous paint for amateur to play with. 
heaven how that man work. he catch his rajah analyze his rajah and trace them up into the mist of time and beyond with their queen and their concubine. he date and cross date pedigreed and triple pedigreed compare note connote weave string sort select infer calendar and counter calendar for ten hour a day. and because this sudden and new light of love be upon him he turn those dry bone of history and dirty record of misdeed into thing to weep or to laugh over a he please. his heart and soul be at the end of his pen and they get into the ink. he be dower with sympathy insight humor and style for two hundred and thirty day and night. and his book be a book. he have his vast special knowledge with him so to speak. but the spirit the weave in human touch the poetry and the power of the output be beyond all special knowledge. but i doubt whether he know the gift that be in him then and thus he may have lose some happiness. he be toil for tillie venner not for himself. 
men often do their best work blind for some one else s sake. 
also though this ha nothing to do with the story in india where every one know every one else you can watch men be drive by the woman who govern them out of the rank and file and send to take up point alone. a good man once start go forward. but an average man so soon a the woman lose interest in his success a a tribute to her power come back to the battalion and be no more hear of. 
wressley bore the first copy of his book to simla and blush and stammer present it to miss venner. she read a little of it. 
i give her review verbatim. oh your book. it s all about those how wid wajahs. i didn t understand it. 
wressley of the foreign office be break smash i be not exaggerate by this one frivolous little girl. all that he could say feebly be. but but it s my magnum opus. the work of my life. miss venner do not know what magnum opus mean. but she know that captain kerrington have win three race at the last gymkhana. wressley didn t press her to wait for him any long. he have sense enough for that. 
then come the reaction after the year s strain and wressley go back to the foreign office and his wajahs a compile gazetteering report write hack who would have be dear at three hundred rupee a month. he abide by miss venner s review. which prof that the inspiration in the book be purely temporary and unconnected with himself. nevertheless he have no right to sink in a hill tarn five pack case bring up at enormous expense from bombay of the best book of indian history ever write. 
when he sell off before retire some year late i be turn over his shelf and come across the only exist copy of native rule in central india the copy that miss venner could not understand. i read it sit on his mule truck a long a the light last and offer him his own price for it. he look over my shoulder for a few page and say to himself drearily. now how in the world do i come to write such damn good stuff a that. then to me. take it and keep it. write one of your penny farthing yarn about it birth. perhaps perhaps the whole business may have be ordain to that end. 
which know what wressley of the foreign office be once strike me a about the bitter thing that i have ever hear a man say of his own work. 
by word of mouth. 
not though you die tonight o sweet and wail a spectre at my door shall mortal fear make love immortal fail i shall but love you more who from death s house return give me still one moment s comfort in my matchless ill. shadow house. 
this tale may be explain by those who know how soul be make and where the bound of the possible be put down. i have live long enough in this country to know that it be best to know nothing and can only write the story a it happen. 
dumoise be our civil surgeon at meridki and we call him dormouse because he be a round little sleepy little man. he be a good doctor and never quarrel with any one not even with our deputy commissioner who have the manner of a bargee and the tact of a horse. he marry a girl a round and a sleepy look a himself. she be a miss hillardyce daughter of squash hillardyce of the berars who marry his chief s daughter by mistake. but that be another story. 
a honeymoon in india be seldom more than a week long. but there be nothing to hind a couple from extend it over two or three year. this be a delightful country for marry folk who be wrap up in one another. they can live absolutely alone and without interruption just a the dormouse do. these two little people retire from the world after their marriage and be very happy. they be force of course to give occasional dinner but they make no friend hereby and the station go it own way and forget them. only say occasionally that dormouse be the best of good fellow though dull. a civil surgeon who never quarrel be a rarity appreciate a such. 
few people can afford to play robinson crusoe anywhere least of all in india where we be few in the land and very much dependent on each other s kind office. dumoise be wrong in shut himself from the world for a year and he discover his mistake when an epidemic of typhoid break out in the station in the heart of the cold weather and his wife go down. he be a shy little man and five day be waste before he realize that mr. dumoise be burn with something bad than simple fever and three day more pass before he venture to call on mr. shute the engineer s wife and timidly speak about his trouble. nearly every household in india know that doctor be very helpless in typhoid. the battle must be fight out between death and the nurse minute by minute and degree by degree. mr. shute almost box dumoise s ear for what she call his criminal delay and go off at once to look after the poor girl. we have seven case of typhoid in the station that winter and a the average of death be about one in every five case we felt certain that we should have to lose somebody. but all do their best. the woman sit up nurse the woman and the men turn to and tend the bachelor who be down and we wrestle with those typhoid case for fifty six day and bring them through the valley of the shadow in triumph. but just when we think all be over and be go to give a dance to celebrate the victory little mr. dumoise get a relapse and die in a week and the station go to the funeral. dumoise break down utterly at the brink of the grave and have to be take away. 
after the death dumoise creep into his own house and refuse to be comfort. he do his duty perfectly but we all felt that he should go on leave and the other men of his own service tell him so. dumoise be very thankful for the suggestion he be thankful for anything in those day and go to chini on a walk tour. 
chini be some twenty march from simla in the heart of the hill and the scenery be good if you be in trouble. you pas through big still deodar forest and under big still cliff and over big still grass down swell like a woman s breast. and the wind across the grass and the rain among the deodar say. hush hush hush. so little dumoise be pack off to chini to wear down his grief with a full plate camera and a rifle. he take also a useless bearer because the man have be his wife s favorite servant. he be idle and a thief but dumoise trust everything to him. 
on his way back from chini dumoise turn aside to bagi through the forest reserve which be on the spur of mount huttoo. some men who have travel more than a little say that the march from kotegarh to bagi be one of the fine in creation. it run through dark wet forest and end suddenly in bleak nip hill side and black rock. bagi dak bungalow be open to all the wind and be bitterly cold. few people go to bagi. perhaps that be the reason why dumoise go there. he halt at seven in the even and his bearer go down the hill side to the village to engage cooly for the next day s march. the sun have set and the night wind be begin to croon among the rock. dumoise lean on the rail of the verandah wait for his bearer to return. the man come back almost immediately after he have disappear and at such a rate that dumoise fancy he must have cross a bear. he be run a hard a he could up the face of the hill. 
but there be no bear to account for his terror. he race to the verandah and fell down the blood spurt from his nose and his face iron gray. then he gurgle. i have see the memsahib. i have see the memsahib. 
where. say dumoise. 
down there walk on the road to the village. she be in a blue dress and she lift the veil of her bonnet and say. ram das give my salaam to the sahib and tell him that i shall meet him next month at nuddea. then i run away because i be afraid. 
what dumoise say or do i do not know. ram das declare that he say nothing but walk up and down the verandah all the cold night wait for the memsahib to come up the hill and stretch out his arm into the dark like a madman. but no memsahib come and next day he go on to simla cross question the bearer every hour. 
ram das could only say that he have meet mr. dumoise and that she have lift up her veil and give him the message which he have faithfully repeat to dumoise. to this statement ram das adhere. 
he do not know where nuddea be have no friend at nuddea and would most certainly never go to nuddea. even though his pay be double. 
nuddea be in bengal and ha nothing whatever to do with a doctor serve in the punjab. it must be more than twelve hundred mile from meridki. 
dumoise go through simla without halt and return to meridki there to take over charge from the man who have be officiate for him during his tour. there be some dispensary account to be explain and some recent order of the surgeon general to be note and altogether the take over be a full day s work. in the even dumoise tell his locum tenens who be an old friend of his bachelor day what have happen at bagi. and the man say that ram das might a well have choose tuticorin while he be about it. 
at that moment a telegraph peon come in with a telegram from simla order dumoise not to take over charge at meridki but to go at once to nuddea on special duty. there be a nasty outbreak of cholera at nuddea and the bengal government be shorthanded a usual have borrow a surgeon from the punjab. 
dumoise throw the telegram across the table and say. well. 
the other doctor say nothing. it be all that he could say. 
then he remember that dumoise have pass through simla on his way from bagi. and thus might possibly have hear the first news of the impend transfer. 
he try to put the question and the imply suspicion into word but dumoise stop him with. if i have desire that i should never have come back from chini. i be shoot there. i wish to live for i have thing to do. but i shall not be sorry. 
the other man bow his head and help in the twilight to pack up dumoise s just open trunk. ram das enter with the lamp. 
where be the sahib go. he ask. 
to nuddea say dumoise softly. 
ram das claw dumoise s knee and boot and beg him not to go. 
ram das weep and howl till he be turn out of the room. then he wrap up all his belonging and come back to ask for a character. he be not go to nuddea to see his sahib die and perhaps to die himself. 
so dumoise give the man his wage and go down to nuddea alone. the other doctor bid him goodbye a one under sentence of death. 
eleven day late he have join his memsahib. and the bengal government have to borrow a fresh doctor to cope with that epidemic at nuddea. the first importation lay dead in chooadanga dak bungalow. 
to be hold for reference. 
by the hoof of the wild goat up toss from the cliff where she lay in the sun fell the stone to the tarn where the daylight be lose. so she fell from the light of the sun and alone. 
now the fall be ordain from the first with the goat and the cliff and the tarn but the stone know only her life be accurse a she sink in the depth of the tarn and alone. 
oh thou who ha build the world oh thou who hast light the sun. oh thou who hast darken the tarn. judge thou the sin of the stone that be hurl by the goat from the light of the sun a she sink in the mire of the tarn even now even now even now. from the unpublished paper of mcintosh jellaludin. 
say be it dawn be it dusk in thy bower thou whom i long for who long for me. oh be it night be it. 
here he fell over a little camel colt that be sleep in the serai where the horse trader and the best of the blackguard from central asia live. and because he be very drink indeed and the night be dark he could not rise again till i help him. that be the begin of my acquaintance with mcintosh jellaludin. when a loafer and drink sing the song of the bower he must be worth cultivate. he get off the camel s back and say rather thickly. i i i m a bite screw but a dip in loggerhead will put me right again. and i say have you speak to symonds about the mare s knee. 
now loggerhead be six thousand weary mile away from u close to mesopotamia where you mustn t fish and poach be impossible and charley symonds stable a half mile further across the paddock. it be strange to hear all the old name on a may night among the horse and camel of the sultan caravanserai. then the man seem to remember himself and sober down at the same time. he lean against the camel and point to a corner of the serai where a lamp be burn. 
i live there say he and i should be extremely oblige if you would be good enough to help my mutinous foot thither. for i be more than usually drink most most phenomenally tight. but not in respect to my head. my brain cry out against how doe it go. but my head ride on the roll on the dung hill i should have say and control the qualm. 
i help him through the gang of tether horse and he collapse on the edge of the verandah in front of the line of native quarter. 
thank a thousand thank. o moon and little little star. to think that a man should so shamelessly. infamous liquor too. ovid in exile drink no bad. good. it be freeze. ala. i have no ice. good night. i would introduce you to my wife be i sober or she civilize. 
a native woman come out of the darkness of the room and begin call the man name. so i go away. he be the most interest loafer that i have the pleasure of know for a long time. and late on he become a friend of mine. he be a tall well build fair man fearfully shake with drink and he look near fifty than the thirty five which he say be his real age. when a man begin to sink in india and be not send home by his friend a soon a may be he fall very low from a respectable point of view. by the time that he change his creed a do mcintosh he be past redemption. 
in most big city native will tell you of two or three sahib generally low caste who have turn hindu or mussulman and who live more or le a such. but it be not often that you can get to know them. a mcintosh himself use to say. if i change my religion for my stomach s sake i do not seek to become a martyr to missionary nor be i anxious for notoriety. 
at the outset of acquaintance mcintosh warn me. remember this. i be not an object for charity. i require neither your money your food nor your cast off raiment. i be that rare animal a self support drunkard. if you choose i will smoke with you for the tobacco of the bazar doe not i admit suit my palate. and i will borrow any book which you may not specially value. it be more than likely that i shall sell them for bottle of excessively filthy country liquor. in return you shall share such hospitality a my house afford. here be a charpoy on which two can sit and it be possible that there may from time to time be food in that platter. drink unfortunately you will find on the premise at any hour. and thus i make you welcome to all my poor establishment. 
i be admit to the mcintosh household i and my good tobacco. 
but nothing else. unluckily one cannot visit a loafer in the serai by day. friend buy horse would not understand it. 
consequently i be oblige to see mcintosh after dark. he laugh at this and say simply. you be perfectly right. when i enjoy a position in society rather high than yours i should have do exactly the same thing good heaven. i be once he speak a though he have fall from the command of a regiment an oxford man. this account for the reference to charley symonds stable. 
you say mcintosh slowly have not have that advantage. but to outward appearance you do not seem possess of a crave for strong drink. on the whole i fancy that you be the lucky of the two. yet i be not certain. you be forgive my say so even while i be smoke your excellent tobacco painfully ignorant of many thing. 
we be sit together on the edge of his bedstead for he own no chair watch the horse be water for the night while the native woman be prepare dinner. i do not like be patronize by a loafer but i be his guest for the time be though he own only one very tear alpaca coat and a pair of trouser make out of gunny bag. he take the pipe out of his mouth and go on judicially. all thing consider i doubt whether you be the lucky. i do not refer to your extremely limit classical attainment or your excruciate quantity but to your gross ignorance of matter more immediately under your notice. that for instance. he point to a woman clean a samovar near the well in the centre of the serai. she be flick the water out of the spout in regular cadenced jerk. 
there be way and way of clean samovar. if you know why she be do her work in that particular fashion you would know what the spanish monk mean when he say. 
i the trinity illustrate drink water orange pulp in three sip the aryan frustrate while he drain his at one gulp. 
and many other thing which now be hide from your eye. however mr. mcintosh ha prepare dinner. let u come and eat after the fashion of the people of the country of whom by the way you know nothing. 
the native woman dip her hand in the dish with u. this be wrong. the wife should always wait until the husband ha eat. 
mcintosh jellaludin apologize say. 
it be an english prejudice which i have not be able to overcome. and she love me. why i have never be able to understand. i fore gather with her at jullundur three year ago and she ha remain with me ever since. i believe her to be moral and know her to be skilled in cookery. 
he pat the woman s head a he speak and she coo softly. she be not pretty to look at. 
mcintosh never tell me what position he have hold before his fall. 
he be when sober a scholar and a gentleman. when drink he be rather more of the first than the second. he use to get drink about once a week for two day. on those occasion the native woman tend him while he rave in all tongue except his own. one day indeed he begin recite atalanta in calydon and go through it to the end beat time to the swing of the verse with a bedstead leg. but he do most of his raving in greek or german. the man s mind be a perfect rag bag of useless thing. once when he be begin to get sober he tell me that i be the only rational be in the inferno into which he have descend a virgil in the shade he say and that in return for my tobacco he would before he die give me the material of a new inferno that should make me great than dante. then he fell asleep on a horse blanket and wake up quite calm. 
man say he when you have reach the uttermost depth of degradation little incident which would vex a high life be to you of no consequence. last night my soul be among the god. but i make no doubt that my bestial body be writhe down here in the garbage. 
you be abominably drink if that s what you mean i say. 
i be drink filthy drink. i who be the son of a man with whom you have no concern i who be once fellow of a college whose buttery hatch you have not see. i be loathsomely drink. but consider how lightly i be touch. it be nothing to me. le than nothing. for i do not even feel the headache which should be my portion. now in a high life how ghastly would have be my punishment how bitter my repentance. believe me my friend with the neglect education the high be a the low always suppose each degree extreme. 
he turn round on the blanket put his head between his fist and continue. 
on the soul which i have lose and on the conscience which i have kill i tell you that i cannot feel. i be a the god know good and evil but untouched by either. be this enviable or be it not. 
when a man ha lose the warn of next morning s head he must be in a bad state i answer look at mcintosh on the blanket with his hair over his eye and his lip blue white that i do not think the insensibility good enough. 
for pity s sake don t say that. i tell you it be good and most enviable. think of my consolation. 
have you so many then mcintosh. 
certainly. your attempt at sarcasm which be essentially the weapon of a culture man be crude. first my attainment my classical and literary knowledge blur perhaps by immoderate drink which remind me that before my soul go to the god last night i sell the pickering horace you so kindly lend me. ditta mull the clothesman ha it. it fetch ten anna and may be redeem for a rupee but still infinitely superior to yours. secondly the abide affection of mr. mcintosh best of wife. thirdly a monument more endure than brass which i have build up in the seven year of my degradation. 
he stop here and crawl across the room for a drink of water. 
he be very shaky and sick. 
he refer several time to his treasure some great possession that he own but i hold this to be the rave of drink. he be a poor and a proud a he could be. his manner be not pleasant but he know enough about the native among whom seven year of his life have be spend to make his acquaintance worth have. he use actually to laugh at strickland a an ignorant man ignorant west and east he say. his boast be first that he be an oxford man of rare and shin part which may or may not have be true i do not know enough to check his statement and secondly that he have his hand on the pulse of native life which be a fact. a an oxford man he strike me a a prig. he be always throw his education about. a a mahommedan faquir a mcintosh jellaludin he be all that i want for my own end. he smoke several pound of my tobacco and teach me several ounce of thing worth know. but he would never accept any gift not even when the cold weather come and grip the poor thin chest under the poor thin alpaca coat. he grow very angry and say that i have insult him and that he be not go into hospital. he have live like a beast and he would die rationally like a man. 
a a matter of fact he die of pneumonia. and on the night of his death send over a grubby note ask me to come and help him to die. 
the native woman be weep by the side of the bed. mcintosh wrap in a cotton cloth be too weak to resent a fur coat be throw over him. he be very active a far a his mind be concern and his eye be blaze. when he have abuse the doctor who come with me so foully that the indignant old fellow leave he curse me for a few minute and calm down. 
then he tell his wife to fetch out the book from a hole in the wall. she bring out a big bundle wrap in the tail of a petticoat of old sheet of miscellaneous note paper all number and cover with fine cramp write. mcintosh plough his hand through the rubbish and stir it up lovingly. 
this he say be my work the book of mcintosh jellaludin show what he saw and how he live and what befall him and others. be also an account of the life and sin and death of mother maturin. what mirza murad ali beg s book be to all other book on native life will my work be to mirza murad ali beg s. 
this a will be concede by any one who know mirza ali beg s book be a sweep statement. the paper do not look specially valuable. but mcintosh handle them a if they be currency note. 
then he say slowly. in despite the many weakness of your education you have be good to me. i will speak of your tobacco when i reach the god. i owe you much thank for many kindness. 
but i abominate indebtedness. for this reason i bequeath to you now the monument more endure than brass my one book rude and imperfect in part but oh how rare in others. i wonder if you will understand it. it be a gift more honorable than. bah. where be my brain ramble to. you will mutilate it horribly. you will knock out the gem you call latin quotation you philistine and you will butch the style to carve into your own jerky jargon. but you cannot destroy the whole of it. i bequeath it to you. 
ethel. my brain again. mr. mcintosh bear witness that i give the sahib all these paper. they would be of no use to you heart of my heart. and i lay it upon you he turn to me here that you do not let my book die in it present form. it be yours unconditionally the story of mcintosh jellaludin which be not the story of mcintosh jellaludin but of a great man than he and of a far great woman. listen now. i be neither mad nor drink. that book will make you famous. 
i say thank you a the native woman put the bundle into my arm. 
my only baby. say mcintosh with a smile. he be sink fast but he continue to talk a long a breath remain. i wait for the end. know that in six case out of ten the die man call for his mother. he turn on his side and say. 
say how it come into your possession. no one will believe you but my name at least will live. you will treat it brutally i know you will. some of it must go. the public be fool and prudish fool. i be their servant once. but do your mangle gently very gently. it be a great work and i have pay for it in seven year damnation. 
his voice stop for ten or twelve breath and then he begin mumble a prayer of some kind in greek. the native woman cry very bitterly. lastly he rise in bed and say a loudly a slowly. not guilty my lord. 
then he fell back and the stupor hold him till he die. the native woman run into the serai among the horse and scream and beat her breast. for she have love him. 
perhaps his last sentence in life tell what mcintosh have once go through. but save the big bundle of old sheet in the cloth there be nothing in his room to say who or what he have be. 
the paper be in a hopeless muddle. 
strickland help me to sort them and he say that the writer be either an extreme liar or a most wonderful person. he think the former. one of these day you may be able to judge for yourself. 
the bundle need much expurgation and be full of greek nonsense at the head of the chapter which ha all be cut out. 
if the thing be ever publish some one may perhaps remember this story now print a a safeguard to prove that mcintosh jellaludin and not i myself write the book of mother maturin. 
i don t want the giant s robe to come true in my case. 
volume vi the light that fail. 
the light that fail. 
chapter i. 
so we settle it all when the storm be do a comf y a comf y could be. and i be to wait in the barn my dear because i be only three. and teddy would run to the rainbow s foot because he be five and a man. and that s how it all begin my dear and that s how it all begin. big barn story. 
what do you think she d do if she catch u. we oughtn t to have it you know say maisie. 
beat me and lock you up in your bedroom dick answer without hesitation. have you get the cartridge. 
yes. they re in my pocket but they be joggle horribly. do pin fire cartridge go off of their own accord. 
don t know. take the revolver if you be afraid and let me carry them. 
i m not afraid. maisie stride forward swiftly a hand in her pocket and her chin in the air. dick follow with a small pin fire revolver. 
the child have discover that their life would be unendurable without pistol practice. after much forethought and self denial dick have save seven shilling and sixpence the price of a badly construct belgian revolver. maisie could only contribute half a crown to the syndicate for the purchase of a hundred cartridge. you can save good than i can dick she explain. i like nice thing to eat and it doesn t matter to you. besides boy ought to do these thing. 
dick grumble a little at the arrangement but go out and make the purchase which the child be then on their way to test. revolver do not lie in the scheme of their daily life a decree for them by the guardian who be incorrectly suppose to stand in the place of a mother to these two orphan. dick have be under her care for six year during which time she have make her profit of the allowance suppose to be expend on his clothe and partly through thoughtlessness partly through a natural desire to pain she be a widow of some year anxious to marry again have make his day burdensome on his young shoulder. 
where he have look for love she give him first aversion and then hate. 
where he grow old have seek a little sympathy she give him ridicule. the many hour that she could spare from the order of her small house she devote to what she call the home train of dick heldar. her religion manufacture in the main by her own intelligence and a keen study of the scripture be an aid to her in this matter. at such time a she herself be not personally displease with dick she leave him to understand that he have a heavy account to settle with his creator. wherefore dick learn to loathe his god a intensely a he loathe mr. jennett. and this be not a wholesome frame of mind for the young. since she choose to regard him a a hopeless liar when dread of pain drive him to his first untruth he naturally develop into a liar but an economical and self contain one never throw away the least unnecessary fib and never hesitate at the black be it only plausible that might make his life a little easy. the treatment teach him at least the power of live alone a power that be of service to him when he go to a public school and the boy laugh at his clothe which be poor in quality and much mend. in the holiday he return to the teaching of mr. jennett and that the chain of discipline might not be weaken by association with the world be generally beat on one account or another before he have be twelve hour under her roof. 
the autumn of one year bring him a companion in bondage a long haired gray eye little atom a self contain a himself who move about the house silently and for the first few week speak only to the goat that be her chief friend on earth and live in the back garden. mr. jennett object to the goat on the ground that he be un christian which he certainly be. then say the atom choose her word very deliberately i shall write to my lawyer people and tell them that you be a very bad woman. amomma be mine mine mine. mr. jennett make a movement to the hall where certain umbrella and cane stand in a rack. the atom understand a clearly a dick what this mean. i have be beat before she say still in the same passionless voice. i have be beat bad than you can ever beat me. if you beat me i shall write to my lawyer people and tell them that you do not give me enough to eat. i be not afraid of you. mr. jennett do not go into the hall and the atom after a pause to assure herself that all danger of war be past go out to weep bitterly on amomma s neck. 
dick learn to know her a maisie and at first mistrust her profoundly for he fear that she might interfere with the small liberty of action leave to him. she do not however. and she volunteer no friendliness until dick have take the first step. long before the holiday be over the stress of punishment share in common drive the child together if it be only to play into each other s hand a they prepare lie for mr. jennett s use. when dick return to school maisie whisper now i shall be all alone to take care of myself. but and she nod her head bravely i can do it. you promise to send amomma a grass collar. send it soon. a week late she ask for that collar by return of post and be not please when she learn that it take time to make. when at last dick forward the gift she forget to thank him for it. 
many holiday have come and go since that day and dick have grow into a lanky hobbledehoy more than ever conscious of his bad clothe. not for a moment have mr. jennett relax her tender care of him but the average caning of a public school dick fell under punishment about three time a month fill him with contempt for her power. she doesn t hurt he explain to maisie who urge him to rebellion and she be kind to you after she ha whack me. dick shamble through the day unkempt in body and savage in soul a the small boy of the school learn to know for when the spirit move him he would hit them cunningly and with science. the same spirit make him more than once try to tease maisie but the girl refuse to be make unhappy. we be both miserable a it be say she. what be the use of try to make thing bad. let s find thing to do and forget thing. 
the pistol be the outcome of that search. it could only be use on the muddy foreshore of the beach far away from the bath machine and pierheads below the grassy slope of fort keel. the tide run out nearly two mile on that coast and the many colour mud bank touch by the sun send up a lamentable smell of dead weed. it be late in the afternoon when dick and maisie arrive on their grind amomma trot patiently behind them. 
mf. say maisie sniff the air. i wonder what make the sea so smelly. i don tlike it. 
you never like anything that isn t make just for you say dick bluntly. give me the cartridge and i ll try first shoot. how far doe one of these little revolver carry. 
oh half a mile say maisie promptly. at least it make an awful noise. be careful with the cartridge. i don t like those jag stick up thing on the rim. dick do be careful. 
all right. i know how to load. i ll fire at the breakwater out there. 
he fire and amomma run away bleat. the bullet throw up a spurt of mud to the right of the wood wreathe pile. 
throw high and to the right. you try maisie. mind it s load all round. 
maisie take the pistol and step delicately to the verge of the mud her hand firmly close on the butt her mouth and leave eye screw up. 
dick sit down on a tuft of bank and laugh. amomma return very cautiously. he be accustom to strange experience in his afternoon walk and find the cartridge box unguarded make investigation with his nose. maisie fire but could not see where the bullet go. 
i think it hit the post she say shade her eye and look out across the sailless sea. 
i know it ha go out to the marazion bell buoy say dick with a chuckle. fire low and to the leave. then perhaps you ll get it. oh look at amomma. he s eat the cartridge. 
maisie turn the revolver in her hand just in time to see amomma scamper away from the pebble dick throw after him. nothing be sacred to a billy goat. be well feed and the adore of his mistress amomma have naturally swallow two load pin fire cartridge. maisie hurry up to assure herself that dick have not miscount the tale. 
yes he s eat two. 
horrid little beast. then they ll joggle about inside him and blow up and serve him right. oh dick. have i kill you. 
revolver be tricky thing for young hand to deal with. maisie could not explain how it have happen but a veil of reek smoke separate her from dick and she be quite certain that the pistol have go off in his face. then she hear him sputter and drop on her knee beside him cry dick you aren t hurt be you. i didn t mean it. 
of course you didn t say dick come out of the smoke and wipe his cheek. but you nearly blind me. that powder stuff sting awfully. a neat little splash of gray lead on a stone show where the bullet have go. maisie begin to whimper. 
don t say dick jump to his foot and shake himself. i m not a bite hurt. 
no but i might have kill you protest maisie the corner of her mouth droop. what should i have do then. 
go home and tell mr. jennett. dick grin at the think. then soften please don tworry about it. besides we be waste time. we ve get to get back to tea. i ll take the revolver for a bite. 
maisie would have weep on the least encouragement but dick s indifference albeit his hand be shake a he pick up the pistol restrain her. she lay pant on the beach while dick methodically bombard the breakwater. get it at last. he exclaim a a lock of weed fly from the wood. 
let me try say maisie imperiously. i m all right now. 
they fire in turn till the rickety little revolver nearly shake itself to piece and amomma the outcast because he might blow up at any moment browse in the background and wonder why stone be throw at him. then they find a balk of timber float in a pool which be command by the seaward slope of fort keel and they sit down together before this new target. 
next holiday say dick a the now thoroughly foul revolver kick wildly in his hand we ll get another pistol central fire that will carry farther. 
there win tbe any next holiday for me say maisie. i m go away. 
where to. 
i don t know. my lawyer have write to mr. jennett and i ve get to be educate somewhere in france perhaps i don tknow where. but i shall be glad to go away. 
i shan t like it a bite. i suppose i shall be leave. look here maisie be it really true you re go. then these holiday will be the last i shall see anything of you. and i go back to school next week. i wish. 
the young blood turn his cheek scarlet. maisie be pick grass tuft and throw them down the slope at a yellow sea poppy nod all by itself to the illimitable level of the mud flat and the milk white sea beyond. 
i wish she say after a pause that i could see you again sometime. you wish that too. 
yes but it would have be good if if you have shoot straight over there down by the breakwater. 
maisie look with large eye for a moment. and this be the boy who only ten day before have decorate amomma s horn with cut paper ham frill and turn him out a beard derision among the public way. then she drop her eye. this be not the boy. 
don t be stupid she say reprovingly and with swift instinct attack the side issue. how selfish you be. just think what i should have felt if that horrid thing have kill you. i m quite miserable enough already. 
why. because you re go away from mr. jennett. 
no. 
from me then. 
no answer for a long time. dick dare not look at her. he felt though he do not know all that the past four year have be to him and this the more acutely since he have no knowledge to put his feeling in word. 
i don t know she say. i suppose it be. 
maisie you must know. i m not suppose. 
let s go home say maisie weakly. 
but dick be not mind to retreat. 
i can t say thing he plead and i m awfully sorry for tease you about amomma the other day. it s all different now maisie can t you see. and you might have tell me that you be go instead of leave me to find out. 
you didn t. i do tell. oh dick what s the use of worry. 
there isn t any. but we ve be together year and year and i didn t know how much i care. 
i don t believe you ever do care. 
no i didn t. but i do i care awfully now maisie he gulp maisie darling say you care too please. 
i do indeed i do. but it win t be any use. 
why. 
because i be go away. 
yes but if you promise before you go. only say will you. a second darling come to his lip more easily than the first. there be few endearment in dick s home or school life. he have to find them by instinct. dick catch the little hand blacken with the escape gas of the revolver. 
i promise she say solemnly. but if i care there be no need for promise. 
and do you care. for the first time in the past few minute their eye meet and speak for them who have no skill in speech. 
oh dick don t. please don t. it be all right when we say good morning. but now it s all different. amomma look on from afar. 
he have see his property quarrel frequently but he have never see kiss exchange before. the yellow sea poppy be wise and nod it head approvingly. consider a a kiss that be a failure but since it be the first other than those demand by duty in all the world that either have ever give or take it open to them new world and every one of them glorious so that they be lift above the consideration of any world at all especially those in which tea be necessary and sit still hold each other s hand and say not a word. 
you can t forget now say dick at last. there be that on his cheek that sting more than gunpowder. 
i shouldn t have forget anyhow say maisie and they look at each other and saw that each be change from the companion of an hour ago to a wonder and a mystery they could not understand. the sun begin to set and a night wind thrash along the bent of the foreshore. 
we shall be awfully late for tea say maisie. let s go home. 
let s use the rest of the cartridge first say dick. and he help maisie down the slope of the fort to the sea a descent that she be quite capable of cover at full speed. equally gravely maisie take the grimy hand. dick bend forward clumsily. maisie draw the hand away and dick blush. 
it s very pretty he say. 
pooh. say maisie with a little laugh of gratify vanity. she stand close to dick a he load the revolver for the last time and fire over the sea with a vague notion at the back of his head that he be protect maisie from all the evil in the world. a puddle far across the mud catch the last ray of the sun and turn into a wrathful red disc. the light hold dick s attention for a moment and a he raise his revolver there fell upon him a renew sense of the miraculous in that he be stand by maisie who have promise to care for him for an indefinite length of time till such date a a gust of the grow wind drive the girl s long black hair across his face a she stand with her hand on his shoulder call amomma a little beast and for a moment he be in the dark a darkness that sting. the bullet go sing out to the empty sea. 
spoil my aim say he shake his head. there aren t any more cartridge. we shall have to run home. but they do not run. they walk very slowly arm in arm. and it be a matter of indifference to them whether the neglect amomma with two pin fire cartridge in his inside blow up or trot beside them. for they have come into a golden heritage and be dispose of it with all the wisdom of all their year. 
and i shall be quoth dick valiantly. then he check himself. i don t know what i shall be. i don t seem to be able to pas any exam but i can make awful caricature of the master. ho. ho. 
be an artist then say maisie. you re always laugh at my try to draw. and it will do you good. 
i ll never laugh at anything you do he answer. i ll be an artist and i ll do thing. 
artist always want money don tthey. 
i ve get a hundred and twenty pound a year of my own. my guardian tell me i m to have it when i come of age. that will be enough to begin with. 
ah i m rich say maisie. i ve get three hundred a year all my own when i m twenty one. that s why mr. jennett be kind to me than she be to you. i wish though that i have somebody that belong to me just a father or a mother. 
you belong to me say dick for ever and ever. 
yes we belong for ever. it s very nice. she squeeze his arm. the kindly darkness hide them both and embolden because he could only just see the profile of maisie s cheek with the long lash veil the gray eye dick at the front door deliver himself of the word he have be boggle over for the last two hour. 
and i love you maisie he say in a whisper that seem to him to ring across the world the world that he would tomorrow or the next day set out to conquer. 
there be a scene not for the sake of discipline to be report when mr. jennett would have fall upon him first for disgraceful unpunctuality and secondly for nearly kill himself with a forbid weapon. 
i be play with it and it go off by itself say dick when the powder pock cheek could no long be hide but if you think you re go to lick me you re wrong. you be never go to touch me again. sit down and give me my tea. you can t cheat u out of that anyhow. 
mr. jennett gasp and become livid. maisie say nothing but encourage dick with her eye and he behave abominably all that even. mr. jennett prophesy an immediate judgment of providence and a descent into tophet late but dick walk in paradise and would not hear. only when he be go to bed mr. jennett recover and assert herself. he have bid maisie good night with down drop eye and from a distance. 
if you aren t a gentleman you might try to behave like one say mr. jennett spitefully. you ve be quarrel with maisie again. 
this mean that the usual good night kiss have be omit. maisie white to the lip thrust her cheek forward with a fine air of indifference and be duly peck by dick who tramp out of the room red a fire. that night he dream a wild dream. he have win all the world and bring it to maisie in a cartridge box but she turn it over with her foot and instead of say thank you cry where be the grass collar you promise for amomma. oh how selfish you be. 
chapter ii. 
then we bring the lance down then the bugle blow when we go to kandahar ridin two an two ridin ridin ridin two an two ta ra ra ra ra ra ra all the way to kandahar ridin two an two. barrack room ballad. 
i m not angry with the british public but i wish we have a few thousand of them scatter among these rook. they wouldn t be in such a hurry to get at their morning paper then. can t you imagine the regulation householder lover of justice constant reader paterfamilias and all that lot frizzle on hot gravel. 
with a blue veil over his head and his clothe in strip. ha any man here a needle. i ve get a piece of sugar sack. 
i ll lend you a pack needle for six square inch of it then. both my knee be wear through. 
why not six square acre while you re about it. but lend me the needle and i ll see what i can do with the selvage. i don t think there s enough to protect my royal body from the cold blast a it be. what be you do with that everlasting sketch book of yours dick. 
study of our special correspondent repair his wardrobe say dick gravely a the other man kick off a pair of sorely wear rid breech and begin to fit a square of coarse canvas over the most obvious open space. he grunt disconsolately a the vastness of the void develop itself. 
sugar bag indeed. hi. you pilot man there. lend me all the sail for that whale boat. 
a fez crown head bob up in the stern sheet divide itself into exact half with one flash grin and bob down again. the man of the tattered breech clothe only in a norfolk jacket and a gray flannel shirt go on with his clumsy sew while dick chuckle over the sketch. 
some twenty whale boat be nuzzle a sand bank which be dot with english soldiery of half a dozen corp bath or wash their clothe. a heap of boat roller commissariat box sugar bag and flour and small arm ammunition case show where one of the whale boat have be compel to unload hastily. and a regimental carpenter be swear aloud a he try on a wholly insufficient allowance of white lead to plaster up the sun parch gap seam of the boat herself. 
first the bloomin rudder snap say he to the world in general. then the mast go. an then s help me when she can t do nothin else she open erself out like a cock eye chinese lotus. 
exactly the case with my breech whoever you be say the tailor without look up. dick i wonder when i shall see a decent shop again. 
there be no answer save the incessant angry murmur of the nile a it race round a basalt wall bend and foam across a rock ridge half a mile upstream. it be a though the brown weight of the river would drive the white men back to their own country. the indescribable scent of nile mud in the air tell that the stream be fall and the next few mile would be no light thing for the whale boat to overpass. the desert run down almost to the bank where among gray red and black hillock a camel corp be encamp. no man dare even for a day lose touch of the slow move boat. there have be no fight for week past and throughout all that time the nile have never spar them. rapid have follow rapid rock rock and island group island group till the rank and file have long since lose all count of direction and very nearly of time. they be move somewhere they do not know why to do something they do not know what. before them lay the nile and at the other end of it be one gordon fight for the dear life in a town call khartoum. there be column of british troop in the desert or in one of the many desert. there be yet more column wait to embark on the river. there be fresh draft wait at assioot and assuan. there be lie and rumour run over the face of the hopeless land from suakin to the sixth cataract and men suppose generally that there must be some one in authority to direct the general scheme of the many movement. the duty of that particular river column be to keep the whale boat afloat in the water to avoid trample on the villager crop when the gang track the boat with line throw from midstream to get a much sleep and food a be possible and above all to press on without delay in the teeth of the churn nile. 
with the soldier sweat and toil the correspondent of the newspaper and they be almost a ignorant a their companion. but it be above all thing necessary that england at breakfast should be amuse and thrill and interest whether gordon live or die or half the british army go to piece in the sand. the soudan campaign be a picturesque one and lend itself to vivid word paint. now and again a special manage to get slay which be not altogether a disadvantage to the paper that employ him and more often the hand to hand nature of the fight allow of miraculous escape which be worth telegraph home at eighteenpence the word. there be many correspondent with many corp and column from the veteran who have follow on the heel of the cavalry that occupy cairo in what time arabi pasha call himself king who have see the first miserable work round suakin when the sentry be cut up nightly and the scrub swarm with spear to youngster jerk into the business at the end of a telegraph wire to take the place of their better kill or invalid. 
among the senior those who know every shift and change in the perplex postal arrangement the value of the seedy weedy egyptian garron offer for sale in cairo or alexandria who could talk a telegraph clerk into amiability and soothe the ruffle vanity of a newly appoint staff officer when press regulation become burdensome be the man in the flannel shirt the black browed torpenhow. he represent the central southern syndicate in the campaign a he have represent it in the egyptian war and elsewhere. the syndicate do not concern itself greatly with criticism of attack and the like. it supply the mass and all it demand be picturesqueness and abundance of detail. for there be more joy in england over a soldier who insubordinately step out of square to rescue a comrade than over twenty general slave even to baldness at the gross detail of transport and commissariat. 
he have meet at suakin a young man sit on the edge of a recently abandon redoubt about the size of a hat box sketch a clump of shell tear body on the gravel plain. 
what be you for. say torpenhow. the greet of the correspondent be that of the commercial traveller on the road. 
my own hand say the young man without look up. have you any tobacco. 
torpenhow wait till the sketch be finish and when he have look at it say what s your business here. 
nothing. there be a row so i come. i m suppose to be do something down at the paint slip among the boat or else i m in charge of the condenser on one of the water ship. i ve forget which. 
you ve cheek enough to build a redoubt with say torpenhow and take stock of the new acquaintance. do you always draw like that. 
the young man produce more sketch. row on a chinese pig boat say he sententiously show them one after another. chief mate dirked by a comprador. junk ashore off hakodate. somali muleteer be flog. star shell burst over camp at berbera. slave dhow be chase round tajurrah bah. soldier lie dead in the moonlight outside suakin. throat cut by fuzzies. 
h m. say torpenhow can tsay i care for verestchagin and water myself but there s no account for taste. do anything now be you. 
no. i m amuse myself here. 
torpenhow look at the sketch again and nod. yes you re right to take your first chance when you can get it. 
he ride away swiftly through the gate of the two war ship rattle across the causeway into the town and wire to his syndicate get man here picture work. good and cheap. shall i arrange. will do letterpress with sketch. 
the man on the redoubt sit swing his leg and murmur i know the chance would come sooner or late. by gad they ll have to sweat for it if i come through this business alive. 
in the even torpenhow be able to announce to his friend that the central southern agency be will to take him on trial pay expense for three month. and by the way what s your name. say torpenhow. 
heldar. do they give me a free hand. 
they ve take you on chance. you must justify the choice. you d good stick to me. i m go up country with a column and i ll do what i can for you. give me some of your sketch take here and i ll send em along. to himself he say that s the best bargain the central southern ha ever make. and they get me cheaply enough. 
so it come to pas that after some purchase of horse flesh and arrangement financial and political dick be make free of the new and honourable fraternity of war correspondent who all posse the inalienable right of do a much work a they can and get a much for it a providence and their owner shall please. to these thing be add in time if the brother be worthy the power of glib speech that neither man nor woman can resist when a meal or a bed be in question the eye of a horse cope the skill of a cook the constitution of a bullock the digestion of an ostrich and an infinite adaptability to all circumstance. but many die before they attain to this degree and the past master in the craft appear for the most part in dress clothe when they be in england and thus their glory be hide from the multitude. 
dick follow torpenhow wherever the latter s fancy choose to lead him and between the two they manage to accomplish some work that almost satisfy themselves. it be not an easy life in any way and under it influence the two be draw very closely together for they eat from the same dish they share the same water bottle and most bind tie of all their mail go off together. it be dick who manage to make gloriously drink a telegraph clerk in a palm hut far beyond the second cataract and while the man lay in bliss on the floor possess himself of some laboriously acquire exclusive information forward by a confide correspondent of an opposition syndicate make a careful duplicate of the matter and bring the result to torpenhow who say that all be fair in love or war correspondence and build an excellent descriptive article from his rival s riotous waste of word. it be torpenhow who but the tale of their adventure together and apart from philae to the waste wilderness of herawi and muella would fill many book. they have be pen into a square side by side in deadly fear of be shoot by over excite soldier. they have fight with baggage camel in the chill dawn. they have jog along in silence under blind sun on indefatigable little egyptian horse. and they have flounder on the shallow of the nile when the whale boat in which they have find a berth choose to hit a hide rock and rip out half her bottom plank. 
now they be sit on the sand bank and the whale boat be bring up the remainder of the column. 
yes say torpenhow a he put the last rude stitch into his over long neglect gear it ha be a beautiful business. 
the patch or the campaign. say dick. don t think much of either myself. 
you want the euryalus bring up above the third cataract don t you. and eighty one ton gun at jakdul. now i m quite satisfy with my breech. he turn round gravely to exhibit himself after the manner of a clown. 
it s very pretty. specially the letter on the sack. g. b. t. government bullock train. that s a sack from india. 
it s my initial gilbert bell torpenhow. i steal the cloth on purpose. what the mischief be the camel corp do yonder. torpenhow shade his eye and look across the scrub strew gravel. 
a bugle blow furiously and the men on the bank hurry to their arm and accoutrement. 
pisan soldiery surprise while bath remark dick calmly. 
d you remember the picture. it s by michael angelo. all beginner copy it. that scrub s alive with enemy. 
the camel corp on the bank yell to the infantry to come to them and a hoarse shout down the river show that the remainder of the column have wind of the trouble and be hasten to take share in it. a swiftly a a reach of still water be crisp by the wind the rock strew ridge and scrub top hill be trouble and alive with arm men. 
mercifully it occur to these to stand far off for a time to shout and gesticulate joyously. one man even deliver himself of a long story. the camel corp do not fire. they be only too glad of a little breathe space until some sort of square could be form. the men on the sand bank run to their side. and the whale boat a they toil up within shout distance be thrust into the near bank and empty of all save the sick and a few men to guard them. the arab orator cease his outcry and his friend howl. 
they look like the mahdi s men say torpenhow elbow himself into the crush of the square. but what thousand of em there be. the tribe hereabout aren t against u i know. 
then the mahdi s take another town say dick and set all these yelp devil free to show u up. lend u your glass. 
our scout should have tell u of this. we ve be trap say a subaltern. aren t the camel gun ever go to begin. hurry up you men. 
there be no need of any order. the men fling themselves pant against the side of the square for they have good reason to know that whoso be leave outside when the fight begin would very probably die in an extremely unpleasant fashion. the little hundred and fifty pound camel gun post at one corner of the square open the ball a the square move forward by it right to get possession of a knoll of rise grind. all have fight in this manner many time before and there be no novelty in the entertainment. always the same hot and stifle formation the smell of dust and leather the same boltlike rush of the enemy the same pressure on the weak side the few minute of hand to hand scuffle and then the silence of the desert break only by the yell of those whom their handful of cavalry attempt to purse. they have become careless. the camel gun speak at interval and the square slouch forward amid the protest of the camel. then come the attack of three thousand men who have not learn from book that it be impossible for troop in close order to attack against breech load fire. 
a few drop shot herald their approach and a few horseman lead but the bulk of the force be naked humanity mad with rage and arm with the spear and the sword. the instinct of the desert where there be always much war tell them that the right flank of the square be the weak for they swing clear of the front. the camel gun shell them a they pass and open for an instant lane through their midst most like those quick close vista in a kentish hop garden see when the train race by at full speed. and the infantry fire hold till the opportune moment drop them in close pack hundred. no civilise troop in the world could have endure the hell through which they come the live leap high to avoid the die who clutch at their heel the wound curse and stagger forward till they fell a torrent black a the slide water above a mill dam full on the right flank of the square. 
then the line of the dusty troop and the faint blue desert sky overhead go out in roll smoke and the little stone on the heat grind and the tinder dry clump of scrub become matter of surpass interest for men measure their agonise retreat and recovery by these thing count mechanically and hew their way back to choose pebble and branch. there be no semblance of any concert fight. for aught the men know the enemy might be attempt all four side of the square at once. their business be to destroy what lay in front of them to bayonet in the back those who pass over them and die to drag down the slayer till he could be knock on the head by some avenge gun butt. 
dick wait with torpenhow and a young doctor till the stress grow unendurable. it be hopeless to attend to the wound till the attack be repulse so the three move forward gingerly towards the weak side of the square. there be a rush from without the short hough hough of the stab spear and a man on a horse follow by thirty or forty others dash through yell and hack. the right flank of the square suck in after them and the other side send help. the wound who know that they have but a few hour more to live catch at the enemy s foot and bring them down or stagger into a discard rifle fire blindly into the scuffle that rag in the centre of the square. 
dick be conscious that somebody have cut him violently across his helmet that he have fire his revolver into a black foam fleck face which forthwith cease to bear any resemblance to a face and that torpenhow have go down under an arab whom he have try to collar low and be turn over and over with his captive feel for the man s eye. the doctor jab at a venture with a bayonet and a helmetless soldier fire over dick s shoulder. the fly grain of powder sting his cheek. it be to torpenhow that dick turn by instinct. the representative of the central southern syndicate have shake himself clear of his enemy and rise wipe his thumb on his trouser. the arab both hand to his forehead scream aloud then snatch up his spear and rush at torpenhow who be pant under shelter of dick s revolver. dick fire twice and the man drop limply. his upturned face lack one eye. the musketry fire redouble but cheer mingle with it. the rush have fail and the enemy be fly. if the heart of the square be shamble the grind beyond be a butch s shop. dick thrust his way forward between the madden men. the remnant of the enemy be retire a the few the very few english cavalry ride down the laggard. 
beyond the line of the dead a broad blood stain arab spear cast aside in the retreat lay across a stump of scrub and beyond this again the illimitable dark level of the desert. the sun catch the steel and turn it into a red disc. some one behind him be say ah get away you brute. dick raise his revolver and point towards the desert. his eye be hold by the red splash in the distance and the clamour about him seem to die down to a very far away whisper like the whisper of a level sea. there be the revolver and the red light. and the voice of some one scar something away exactly a have fall somewhere before a darkness that sting. he fire at random and the bullet go out across the desert a he mutter spoil my aim. there aren t any more cartridge. we shall have to run home. he put his hand to his head and bring it away cover with blood. 
old man you re cut rather badly say torpenhow. i owe you something for this business. thank. stand up. i say you can t be ill here. 
throughout the night when the troop be encamp by the whale boat a black figure dance in the strong moonlight on the sand bar and shout that khartoum the accurse one be dead be dead be dead that two steamer be rock stake on the nile outside the city and that of all their crew there remain not one. and khartoum be dead be dead be dead. but torpenhow take no heed. he be watch dick who call aloud to the restless nile for maisie and again maisie. behold a phenomenon say torpenhow rearrange the blanket. here be a man presumably human who mention the name of one woman only. and i ve see a good deal of delirium too. dick here s some fizzy drink. 
thank you maisie say dick. 
chapter iii. 
so he think he shall take to the sea again for one more cruise with his buccaneer to singe the beard of the king of spain and capture another dean of jaen and sell him in algiers. dutch picture. longfellow. 
the soudan campaign and dick s break head have be some month end and mend and the central southern syndicate have pay dick a certain sum on account for work do which work they be careful to assure him be not altogether up to their standard. dick heave the letter into the nile at cairo cash the draft in the same town and bid a warm farewell to torpenhow at the station. 
i be go to lie up for a while and rest say torpenhow. i don t know where i shall live in london but if god bring u to meet we shall meet. be you stay here on the off chance of another row. there will be none till the southern soudan be reoccupied by our troop. mark that. goodbye. bless you. come back when your money s spend. and give me your address. 
dick loiter in cairo alexandria ismailia and port say especially port say. there be iniquity in many part of the world and vice in all but the concentrate essence of all the iniquity and all the vice in all the continent find itself at port say. and through the heart of that sand border hell where the mirage flicker day long above the bitter lake move if you will only wait most of the men and woman you have know in this life. dick establish himself in quarter more riotous than respectable. he spend his evening on the quay and board many ship and saw very many friend gracious englishwoman with whom he have talk not too wisely in the veranda of shepherd s hotel hurry war correspondent skipper of the contract troop ship employ in the campaign army officer by the score and others of le reputable trade. 
he have choice of all the race of the east and west for study and the advantage of see his subject under the influence of strong excitement at the game table saloon dance hell and elsewhere. for recreation there be the straight vista of the canal the blaze sand the procession of ship and the white hospital where the english soldier lay. he strive to set down in black and white and colour all that providence send him and when that supply be end seek about for fresh material. it be a fascinate employment but it run away with his money and he have draw in advance the hundred and twenty pound to which he be entitle yearly. now i shall have to work and starve. think he and be address himself to this new fate when a mysterious telegram arrive from torpenhow in england which say come back quick. you have catch on. come. 
a large smile overspread his face. so soon. that s a good hear say he to himself. there will be an orgy tonight. i ll stand or fall by my luck. faith it s time it come. he deposit half of his fund in the hand of his well know friend monsieur and madame binat and order himself a zanzibar dance of the fine. monsieur binat be shake with drink but madame smile sympathetically monsieur need a chair of course and of course monsieur will sketch. monsieur amuse himself strangely. 
binat raise a blue white face from a cot in the inner room. i understand he quaver. we all know monsieur. monsieur be an artist a i have be. dick nod. in the end say binat with gravity monsieur will descend alive into hell a i have descend. and he laugh. 
you must come to the dance too say dick. i shall want you. 
for my face. i know it would be so. for my face. my god. and for my degradation so tremendous. i will not. take him away. he be a devil. or at least do thou celeste demand of him more. the excellent binat begin to kick and scream. 
all thing be for sale in port say say madame. if my husband come it will be so much more. eh how you call alf a sovereign. 
the money be pay and the mad dance be hold at night in a wall courtyard at the back of madame binat s house. the lady herself in fade mauve silk always about to slide from her yellow shoulder play the piano and to the tin pot music of a western waltz the naked zanzibari girl dance furiously by the light of kerosene lamp. binat sit upon a chair and star with eye that saw nothing till the whirl of the dance and the clang of the rattle piano steal into the drink that take the place of blood in his vein and his face glisten. dick take him by the chin brutally and turn that face to the light. madame binat look over her shoulder and smile with many teeth. dick lean against the wall and sketch for an hour till the kerosene lamp begin to smell and the girl throw themselves pant on the hard beat grind. then he shut his book with a snap and move away binat pluck feebly at his elbow. show me he whimper. i too be once an artist even i. dick show him the rough sketch. be i that. he scream. will you take that away with you and show all the world that it be i binat. he moan and weep. 
monsieur ha pay for all say madame. to the pleasure of see monsieur again. 
the courtyard gate shut and dick hurry up the sandy street to the near gamble hell where he be well know. if the luck hold it s an omen. if i lose i must stay here. he place his money picturesquely about the board hardly dare to look at what he do. the luck hold. 
three turn of the wheel leave him rich by twenty pound and he go down to the ship to make friend with the captain of a decay cargo steamer who land him in london with few pound in his pocket than he care to think about. 
a thin gray fog hang over the city and the street be very cold. for summer be in england. 
it s a cheerful wilderness and it hasn t the knack of alter much dick think a he tramp from the dock westward. now what must i do. 
the pack house give no answer. dick look down the long lightless street and at the appal rush of traffic. oh you rabbit hutch. say he address a row of highly respectable semi detach residence. do you know what you ve get to do late on. you have to supply me with men servant and maid servant here he smack his lip and the peculiar treasure of king. meantime i ll clothe and boot and presently i will return and trample on you. he step forward energetically. he saw that one of his shoe be burst at the side. a he stoop to make investigation a man jostle him into the gutter. all right he say. that s another nick in the score. i ll jostle you late on. 
good clothe and boot be not cheap and dick leave his last shop with the certainty that he would be respectably array for a time but with only fifty shilling in his pocket. he return to street by the dock and lodge himself in one room where the sheet on the bed be almost audibly mark in case of theft and where nobody seem to go to bed at all. when his clothe arrive he seek the central southern syndicate for torpenhow s address and get it with the intimation that there be still some money wait for him. 
how much. say dick a one who habitually deal in million. 
between thirty and forty pound. if it would be any convenience to you of course we could let you have it at once. but we usually settle account monthly. 
if i show that i want anything now i m lose he say to himself. all i need i ll take late on. then aloud it s hardly worth while. and i m go to the country for a month too. wait till i come back and i ll see about it. 
but we trust mr. heldar that you do not intend to sever your connection with u. 
dick s business in life be the study of face and he watch the speaker keenly. that man mean something he say. i ll do no business till i ve see torpenhow. there s a big deal come. so he depart make no promise to his one little room by the dock. and that day be the seventh of the month and that month he reckon with awful distinctness have thirty one day in it. it be not easy for a man of catholic taste and healthy appetite to exist for twenty four day on fifty shilling. nor be it cheer to begin the experiment alone in all the loneliness of london. dick pay seven shilling a week for his lodge which leave him rather le than a shill a day for food and drink. naturally his first purchase be of the material of his craft. he have be without them too long. half a day s investigation and comparison bring him to the conclusion that sausage and mash potato twopence a plate be the best food. now sausage once or twice a week for breakfast be not unpleasant. a lunch even with mash potato they become monotonous. at dinner they be impertinent. at the end of three day dick loathe sausage and go forth pawn his watch to revel on sheep s head which be not a cheap a it look owe to the bone and the gravy. then he return to sausage and mash potato. then he confine himself entirely to mash potato for a day and be unhappy because of pain in his inside. then he pawn his waistcoat and his tie and think regretfully of money throw away in time past. there be few thing more edify unto art than the actual belly pinch of hunger and dick in his few walk abroad he do not care for exercise. it raise desire that could not be satisfy find himself divide mankind into two class those who look a if they might give him something to eat and those who look otherwise. i never know what i have to learn about the human face before he think. and a a reward for his humility providence cause a cab driver at a sausage shop where dick feed that night to leave half eat a great chunk of bread. dick take it would have fight all the world for it possession and it cheer him. 
the month drag through at last and nearly prance with impatience he go to draw his money. then he hasten to torpenhow s address and smelt the smell of cook meat all along the corridor of the chamber. torpenhow be on the top floor and dick burst into his room to be receive with a hug which nearly crack his rib a torpenhow drag him to the light and speak of twenty different thing in the same breath. 
but you re look tuck up he conclude. 
get anything to eat. say dick his eye roam round the room. 
i shall be have breakfast in a minute. what do you say to sausage. 
no anything but sausage. torp i ve be starve on that accurse horse flesh for thirty day and thirty night. 
now what lunacy ha be your late. 
dick speak of the last few week with unbridle speech. then he open his coat. there be no waistcoat below. i run it fine awfully fine but i ve just scrap through. 
you haven t much sense but you ve get a backbone anyhow. eat and talk afterwards. dick fell upon egg and bacon and gorge till he could gorge no more. torpenhow hand him a fill pipe and he smoke a men smoke who for three week have be deprive of good tobacco. 
ouf. say he. that s heavenly. well. 
why in the world didn t you come to me. 
couldn t. i owe you too much already old man. besides i have a sort of superstition that this temporary starvation that s what it be and it hurt would bring me luck late. it s over and do with now and none of the syndicate know how hard up i be. fire away. what s the exact state of affair a regard myself. 
you have my wire. you ve catch on here. people like your work immensely. i don t know why but they do. they say you have a fresh touch and a new way of draw thing. and because they re chiefly home breed english they say you have insight. you re want by half a dozen paper. you re want to illustrate book. 
dick grunt scornfully. 
you re want to work up your small sketch and sell them to the dealer. they seem to think the money sink in you be a good investment. good lord. who can account for the fathomless folly of the public. 
they re a remarkably sensible people. 
they be subject to fit if that s what you mean. and you happen to be the object of the late fit among those who be interest in what they call art. just now you re a fashion a phenomenon or whatever you please. i appear to be the only person who know anything about you here and i have be show the most useful men a few of the sketch you give me from time to time. those come after your work on the central southern syndicate appear to have do your business. you re in luck. 
huh. call it luck. do call it luck when a man ha be kick about the world like a dog wait for it to come. i ll luck em late on. i want a place to work first. 
come here say torpenhow cross the land. this place be a big box room really but it will do for you. there s your skylight or your north light or whatever window you call it and plenty of room to thrash about in and a bedroom beyond. what more do you need. 
good enough say dick look round the large room that take up a third of a top story in the rickety chamber overlook the thames. a pale yellow sun shine through the skylight and show the much dirt of the place. three step lead from the door to the land and three more to torpenhow s room. the well of the staircase disappear into darkness prick by tiny gas jet and there be sound of men talk and door slam seven flight below in the warm gloom. 
do they give you a free hand here. say dick cautiously. he be ishmael enough to know the value of liberty. 
anything you like. latch key and license unlimited. we be permanent tenant for the most part here. tisn t a place i would recommend for a young men s christian association but it will serve. i take these room for you when i wire. 
you re a great deal too kind old man. 
you didn t suppose you be go away from me do you. torpenhow put his hand on dick s shoulder and the two walk up and down the room henceforward to be call the studio in sweet and silent communion. they hear rap at torpenhow s door. that s some ruffian come up for a drink say torpenhow. and he raise his voice cheerily. there enter no one more ruffianly than a portly middle age gentleman in a satin face frockcoat. his lip be part and pale and there be deep pouch under the eye. 
weak heart say dick to himself and a he shake hand very weak heart. his pulse be shake his finger. 
the man introduce himself a the head of the central southern syndicate and one of the most ardent admirer of your work mr. heldar. i assure you in the name of the syndicate that we be immensely indebted to you. and i trust mr. heldar you win t forget that we be largely instrumental in bring you before the public. he pant because of the seven flight of stair. 
dick glance at torpenhow whose leave eyelid lay for a moment dead on his cheek. 
i shan t forget say dick every instinct of defence rouse in him. 
you ve pay me so well that i couldn t you know. by the way when i be settle in this place i should like to send and get my sketch. there must be nearly a hundred and fifty of them with you. 
that be er be what i come to speak about. i fear we can t allow it exactly mr. heldar. in the absence of any specify agreement the sketch be our property of course. 
do you mean to say that you be go to keep them. 
yes. and we hope to have your help on your own term mr. heldar to assist u in arrange a little exhibition which back by our name and the influence we naturally command among the press should be of material service to you. sketch such a yours. 
belong to me. you engage me by wire you pay me the low rate you dare. you can t mean to keep them. good god alive man they re all i ve get in the world. 
torpenhow watch dick s face and whistle. 
dick walk up and down think. he saw the whole of his little stock in trade the first weapon of his equipment annex at the outset of his campaign by an elderly gentleman whose name dick have not catch aright who say that he represent a syndicate which be a thing for which dick have not the least reverence. the injustice of the proceeding do not much move him. he have see the strong hand prevail too often in other place to be squeamish over the moral aspect of right and wrong. 
but he ardently desire the blood of the gentleman in the frockcoat and when he speak again it be with a strain sweetness that torpenhow know well for the begin of strife. 
forgive me sir but you have no no young man who can arrange this business with me. 
i speak for the syndicate. i see no reason for a third party to. 
you will in a minute. be good enough to give back my sketch. 
the man star blankly at dick and then at torpenhow who be lean against the wall. he be not use to ex employee who order him to be good enough to do thing. 
yes it be rather a cold blood steal say torpenhow critically. but i m afraid i be very much afraid you ve strike the wrong man. be careful dick. remember this isn t the soudan. 
consider what service the syndicate have do you in put your name before the world. 
this be not a fortunate remark. it remind dick of certain vagrant year live out in loneliness and strife and unsatisfied desire. the memory do not contrast well with the prosperous gentleman who propose to enjoy the fruit of those year. 
i don t know quite what to do with you begin dick meditatively. of course you re a thief and you ought to be half kill but in your case you d probably die. i don t want you dead on this floor and besides it s unlucky just a one s move in. don t hit sir. you ll only excite yourself. 
he put one hand on the man s forearm and run the other down the plump body beneath the coat. my goodness. say he to torpenhow and this gray oaf dare to be a thief. i have see an esneh camel driver have the black hide take off his body in strip for steal half a pound of wet date and he be a tough a whipcord. this thing s soft all over like a woman. 
there be few thing more poignantly humiliate than be handle by a man who doe not intend to strike. the head of the syndicate begin to breathe heavily. dick walk round him paw him a a cat paw a soft hearth rug. then he trace with his forefinger the leaden pouch underneath the eye and shake his head. you be go to steal my thing mine mine mine. you who don t know when you may die. write a note to your office you say you re the head of it and order them to give torpenhow my sketch every one of them. wait a minute. your hand s shake. now. he thrust a pocket book before him. the note be write. torpenhow take it and depart without a word while dick walk round and round the spellbind captive give him such advice a he conceive best for the welfare of his soul. when torpenhow return with a gigantic portfolio he hear dick say almost soothingly now i hope this will be a lesson to you. and if you worry me when i have settle down to work with any nonsense about action for assault believe me i ll catch you and manhandle you and you ll die. you haven t very long to live anyhow. go. imshi vootsak get out. the man depart stagger and daze. dick draw a long breath. phew. what a lawless lot these people be. the first thing a poor orphan meet be gang robbery organise burglary. think of the hideous blackness of that man s mind. be my sketch all right torp. 
yes. one hundred and forty seven of them. well i must say dick you ve begin well. 
he be interfere with me. it only mean a few pound to him but it be everything to me. i don t think he ll bring an action. i give him some medical advice gratis about the state of his body. it be cheap at the little flurry it cost him. now let s look at my thing. 
two minute late dick have throw himself down on the floor and be deep in the portfolio chuckle lovingly a he turn the drawing over and think of the price at which they have be buy. 
the afternoon be well advance when torpenhow come to the door and saw dick dance a wild saraband under the skylight. 
i build good than i know torp he say without stop the dance. they re good. they re damn good. they ll go like flame. i shall have an exhibition of them on my own brazen hook. and that man would have cheat me out of it. do you know that i m sorry now that i didn t actually hit him. 
go out say torpenhow go out and pray to be deliver from the sin of arrogance which you never will be. bring your thing up from whatever place you re stay in and we ll try to make this barn a little more shipshape. 
and then oh then say dick still caper we will spoil the egyptian. 
chapter iv the wolf cub at even lay hide in the corn when the smoke of the cook hang gray. he know where the doe make a couch for her fawn and he look to his strength for his prey. 
but the moon sweep the smoke wreath away. 
and he turn from his meal in the villager s close and he bay to the moon a she rise. in seonee. 
well and how doe success taste. say torpenhow some three month late. he have just return to chamber after a holiday in the country. 
good say dick a he sit lick his lip before the easel in the studio. 
i want more heap more. the lean year have pass and i approve of these fat one. 
be careful old man. that way lie bad work. 
torpenhow be sprawl in a long chair with a small fox terrier asleep on his chest while dick be prepare a canvas. a dais a background and a lay figure be the only fix object in the place. they rise from a wreck of oddment that begin with felt cover water bottle belt and regimental badge and end with a small bale of second hand uniform and a stand of mix arm. the mark of muddy foot on the dais show that a military model have just go away. the watery autumn sunlight be fall and shadow sit in the corner of the studio. 
yes say dick deliberately i like the power. i like the fun. i like the fuss. and above all i like the money. i almost like the people who make the fuss and pay the money. almost. but they re a queer gang an amazingly queer gang. 
they have be good enough to you at any rate. that tin pot exhibition of your sketch must have pay. do you see that the paper call it the wild work show. 
never mind. i sell every shred of canvas i want to. and on my word i believe it be because they believe i be a self teach flagstone artist. i should have get good price if i work my thing on wool or scratch them on camel bone instead of use mere black and white and colour. verily they be a queer gang these people. limit isn t the word to describe em. i meet a fellow the other day who tell me that it be impossible that shadow on white sand should be blue ultramarine a they be. i find out late that the man have be a far a brighton beach. but he know all about art confound him. he give me a lecture on it and recommend me to go to school to learn technique. i wonder what old kami would have say to that. 
when be you under kami man of extraordinary beginning. 
i study with him for two year in paris. he teach by personal magnetism. all he ever say be continuez me enfants and you have to make the best you could of that. he have a divine touch and he know something about colour. kami use to dream colour. i swear he could never have see the genuine article. but he evolve it. and it be good. 
recollect some of those view in the soudan. say torpenhow with a provoke drawl. 
dick squirm in his place. don t. it make me want to get out there again. what colour that be. opal and umber and amber and claret and brick red and sulphur cockatoo crest sulphur against brown with a nigger black rock stick up in the middle of it all and a decorative frieze of camel festoon in front of a pure pale turquoise sky. he begin to walk up and down. and yet you know if you try to give these people the thing a god give it key down to their comprehension and accord to the power he ha give you. 
modest man. go on. 
half a dozen epicene young pagan who haven t even be to algiers will tell you first that your notion be borrow and secondly that it isn t art. 
this come of my leave town for a month. dickie you ve be promenade among the toy shop and hear people talk. 
i couldn t help it say dick penitently. you weren t here and it be lonely these long evening. a man can t work for ever. 
a man might have go to a pub and get decently drink. 
i wish i have. but i forgather with some men of sort. they say they be artist and i know some of them could draw but they wouldn t draw. they give me tea tea at five in the afternoon. and talk about art and the state of their soul. a if their soul matter. i ve hear more about art and see le of her in the last six month than in the whole of my life. do you remember cassavetti who work for some continental syndicate out with the desert column. he be a regular christmas tree of contraption when he take the field in full fig with his water bottle lanyard revolver write case housewife gig lamp and the lord know what all. he use to fiddle about with em and show u how they work. but he never seem to do much except fudge his report from the nilghai. see. 
dear old nilghai. he s in town fat than ever. he ought to be up here this even. i see the comparison perfectly. you should have keep clear of all that man millinery. serf you right. and i hope it will unsettle your mind. 
it win t. it ha teach me what art holy sacred art mean. 
you ve learn something while i ve be away. what be art. 
give em what they know and when you ve do it once do it again. 
dick drag forward a canvas lay face to the wall. here s a sample of real art. it s go to be a facsimile reproduction for a weekly. i call it his last shoot. it s work up from the little water colour i make outside el maghrib. well i lure my model a beautiful rifleman up here with drink. i drored him and i redrored him and i redrored him and i make him a flush dishevel bedevil scallawag with his helmet at the back of his head and the live fear of death in his eye and the blood ooze out of a cut over his ankle bone. he wasn t pretty but he be all soldier and very much man. 
once more modest child. 
dick laugh. well it s only to you i m talk. i do him just a well a i know how make allowance for the slickness of oil. then the art manager of that abandon paper say that his subscriber wouldn t like it. it be brutal and coarse and violent man be naturally gentle when he s fight for his life. they want something more restful with a little more colour. i could have say a good deal but you might a well talk to a sheep a an art manager. i take my last shoot back. behold the result. i put him into a lovely red coat without a speck on it. that be art. i polish his boot observe the high light on the toe. that be art. i clean his rifle rifle be always clean on service because that be art. i pipeclayed his helmet pipeclay be always use on active service and be indispensable to art. i shave his chin i wash his hand and give him an air of fat peace. result military tailor s pattern plate. price thank heaven twice a much a for the first sketch which be moderately decent. 
and do you suppose you re go to give that thing out a your work. 
why not. i do it. alone i do it in the interest of sacred home breed art and dickenson s weekly. 
torpenhow smoke in silence for a while. then come the verdict deliver from roll cloud. if you be only a mass of blather vanity dick i wouldn t mind i d let you go to the deuce on your own mahl stick. but when i consider what you be to me and when i find that to vanity you add the twopenny halfpenny pique of a twelve year old girl then i bestir myself in your behalf. thus. 
the canvas rip a torpenhow s boot foot shoot through it and the terrier jump down think rat be about. 
if you have any bad language to use use it. you have not. i continue. you be an idiot because no man bear of woman be strong enough to take liberty with his public even though they be which they ain t all you say they be. 
but they don t know any good. what can you expect from creature bear and breed in this light. dick point to the yellow fog. if they want furniture polish let them have furniture polish so long a they pay for it. they be only men and woman. you talk a if they be god. 
that sound very fine but it ha nothing to do with the case. they be they people you have to do work for whether you like it or not. they be your master. don tbe deceive dickie you aren t strong enough to trifle with them or with yourself which be more important. 
moreover come back binkie. that red daub isn t go anywhere unless you take precious good care you will fall under the damnation of the check book and that s bad than death. you will get drink you re half drink already on easily acquire money. for that money and you own infernal vanity you be will to deliberately turn out bad work. you ll do quite enough bad work without know it. and dickie a i love you and a i know you love me i be not go to let you cut off your nose to spite your face for all the gold in england. that s settle. now swear. 
don t know say dick. i ve be try to make myself angry but i can t you re so abominably reasonable. there will be a row on dickenson s weekly i fancy. 
why the dickenson do you want to work on a weekly paper. it s slow bleed of power. 
it bring in the very desirable dollar say dick his hand in his pocket. 
torpenhow watch him with large contempt. why i think it be a man. say he. it s a child. 
no it isn t say dick wheel quickly. you ve no notion what the certainty of cash mean to a man who ha always want it badly. nothing will pay me for some of my life s joy. on that chinese pig boat for instance when we eat bread and jam for every meal because ho wang wouldn t allow u anything good and it all taste of pig chinese pig. i ve work for this i ve sweat and i ve starve for this line on line and month after month. and now i ve get it i be go to make the most of it while it last. let them pay they ve no knowledge. 
what doe your majesty please to want. you can t smoke more than you do. you win t drink. you re a gross feeder. and you dress in the dark by the look of you. you wouldn t keep a horse the other day when i suggest because you say it might fall lame and whenever you cross the street you take a hansom. even you be not foolish enough to suppose that theatre and all the live thing you can by thereabouts mean life. what earthly need have you for money. 
it s there bless it golden heart say dick. it s there all the time. providence ha send me nut while i have teeth to crack em with. i haven t yet find the nut i wish to crack but i m keep my teeth file. perhaps some day you and i will go for a walk round the wide earth. 
with no work to do nobody to worry u and nobody to compete with. you would be unfit to speak to in a week. besides i shouldn t go. i don t care to profit by the price of a man s soul for that s what it would mean. dick it s no use argue. you re a fool. 
don t see it. when i be on that chinese pig boat our captain get credit for save about twenty five thousand very seasick little pig when our old tramp of a steamer fell foul of a timber junk. now take those pig a a parallel. 
oh confound your parallel. whenever i try to improve your soul you always drag in some anecdote from your very shady past. pig aren t the british public. and self respect be self respect the world over. go out for a walk and try to catch some self respect. and i say if the nilghai come up this even can i show him your digging. 
surely. and dick depart to take counsel with himself in the rapidly gather london fog. 
half an hour after he have leave the nilghai labour up the staircase. he be the chief a he be the young of the war correspondent and his experience date from the birth of the needle gun. save only his ally keneu the great war eagle there be no man high in the craft than he and he always open his conversation with the news that there would be trouble in the balkan in the spring. torpenhow laugh a he enter. 
never mind the trouble in the balkan. those little state be always screech. you ve hear about dick s luck. 
yes. he ha be call up to notoriety hasn t he. i hope you keep him properly humble. he want suppress from time to time. 
he doe. he s begin to take liberty with what he think be his reputation. 
already. by jove he ha cheek. i don t know about his reputation but he ll come a cropper if he try that sort of thing. 
so i tell him. i don t think he belief it. 
they never do when they first start off. what s that wreck on the grind there. 
specimen of his late impertinence. torpenhow thrust the tear edge of the canvas together and show the well groom picture to the nilghai who look at it for a moment and whistle. 
it s a chromo say he a chromo litholeomargarine fake. what possess him to do it. and yet how thoroughly he ha catch the note that catch a public who think with their boot and read with their elbow. the cold blood insolence of the work almost save it. but he mustn t go on with this. hasn t he be praise and cocker up too much. you know these people here have no sense of proportion. they ll call him a second detaille and a third hand meissonier while his fashion last. it s windy diet for a colt. 
i don t think it affect dick much. you might a well call a young wolf a lion and expect him to take the compliment in exchange for a shin bone. dick s soul be in the bank. he s work for cash. 
now he ha throw up war work i suppose he doesn t see that the obligation of the service be just the same only the proprietor be change. 
how should he know. he think he be his own master. 
doe he. i could undeceive him for his good if there s any virtue in print. he want the whiplash. 
lay it on with science then. i d flay him myself but i like him too much. 
i ve no scruple. he have the audacity to try to cut me out with a woman at cairo once. i forget that but i remember now. 
do he cut you out. 
you ll see when i have deal with him. but after all what s the good. leave him alone and he ll come home if he ha any stuff in him drag or wag his tail behind him. there s more in a week of life than in a lively weekly. none the le i ll slate him. i ll slate him ponderously in the cataclysm. 
good luck to you. but i fancy nothing short of a crowbar would make dick wince. his soul seem to have be fire before we come across him. he s intensely suspicious and utterly lawless. 
matter of temper say the nilghai. it s the same with horse. some you wallop and they work some you wallop and they jib and some you wallop and they go out for a walk with their hand in their pocket. 
that s exactly what dick ha do say torpenhow. wait till he come back. in the meantime you can begin your slat here. i ll show you some of his last and bad work in his studio. 
dick have instinctively seek run water for a comfort to his mood of mind. he be lean over the embankment wall watch the rush of the thames through the arch of westminster bridge. he begin by think of torpenhow s advice but a of custom lose himself in the study of the face flock past. some have death write on their feature and dick marvel that they could laugh. others clumsy and coarse build for the most part be alight with love. others be merely draw and line with work. but there be something dick know to be make out of them all. the poor at least should suffer that he might learn and the rich should pay for the output of his learn. thus his credit in the world and his cash balance at the bank would be increase. so much the good for him. he have suffer. now he would take toll of the ill of others. 
the fog be drive apart for a moment and the sun shine a blood red wafer on the water. dick watch the spot till he hear the voice of the tide between the pier die down like the wash of the sea at low tide. a girl hard press by her lover shout shamelessly ah get away you beast. and a shift of the same wind that have open the fog drive across dick s face the black smoke of a river steamer at her berth below the wall. he be blind for the moment then spin round and find himself face to face with maisie. 
there be no mistake. the year have turn the child to a woman but they have not alter the dark gray eye the thin scarlet lip or the firmly model mouth and chin. and that all should be a it be of old she wear a closely fit gray dress. 
since the human soul be finite and not in the least under it own command dick advance say halloo. after the manner of schoolboy and maisie answer oh dick be that you. then against his will and before the brain newly release from consideration of the cash balance have time to dictate to the nerve every pulse of dick s body throb furiously and his palate dry in his mouth. the fog shut down again and maisie s face be pearl white through it. no word be speak but dick fell into step at her side and the two pace the embankment together keep the step a perfectly a in their afternoon excursion to the mud flat. then dick a little hoarsely what ha happen to amomma. 
he die dick. not cartridge. over eat. he be always greedy. isn t it funny. 
yes. no. do you mean amomma. 
ye e. no. this. where have you come from. 
over there he point eastward through the fog. and you. 
oh i m in the north the black north across all the park. i be very busy. 
what do you do. 
i paint a great deal. that s all i have to do. 
why what s happen. you have three hundred a year. 
i have that still. i be paint. that s all. 
be you alone then. 
there s a girl live with me. don t walk so fast dick. you re out of step. 
then you notice it too. 
of course i do. you re always out of step. 
so i be. i m sorry. you go on with the paint. 
of course. i say i should. i be at the slade then at merton s in st. john s wood the big studio then i pepper pot i mean i go to the national and now i m work under kami. 
but kami be in paris surely. 
no. he ha his teach studio in vitry sur marne. i work with him in the summer and i live in london in the winter. i m a householder. 
do you sell much. 
now and again but not often. there be my bus. i must take it or lose half an hour. goodbye dick. 
goodbye maisie. win t you tell me where you live. i must see you again. and perhaps i could help you. i i paint a little myself. 
i may be in the park tomorrow if there be no work light. i walk from the marble arch down and back again. that be my little excursion. but of course i shall see you again. she step into the omnibus and be swallow up by the fog. 
well i be damn. exclaim dick and return to the chamber. 
torpenhow and the nilghai find him sit on the step to the studio door repeat the phrase with an awful gravity. 
you ll be more damn when i m do with you say the nilghai upheave his bulk from behind torpenhow s shoulder and wave a sheaf of half dry manuscript. dick it be of common report that you be suffer from swell head. 
halloo nilghai. back again. how be the balkan and all the little balkan. one side of your face be out of draw a usual. 
never mind that. i be commission to smite you in print. torpenhow refuse from false delicacy. i ve be overhaul the pot boiler in your studio. they be simply disgraceful. 
oho. that s it be it. if you think you can slate me you re wrong. you can only describe and you need a much room to turn in on paper a a p. and o. cargo boat. but continue and be swift. i m go to bed. 
h m. h m. h m. the first part only deal with your picture. here s the peroration. for work do without conviction for power waste on triviality for labour expend with levity for the deliberate purpose of win the easy applause of a fashion drive public. 
that s his last shoot second edition. go on. 
public there remain but one end the oblivion that be precede by toleration and cenotaphed with contempt. from that fate mr. heldar ha yet to prove himself out of danger. 
wow wow wow wow wow. say dick profanely. it s a clumsy end and vile journalese but it s quite true. and yet he spring to his foot and snatch at the manuscript you scar deboshed batter old gladiator. you re send out when a war begin to minister to the blind brutal british public s bestial thirst for blood. they have no arena now but they must have special correspondent. you re a fat gladiator who come up through a trap door and talk of what he s see. you stand on precisely the same level a an energetic bishop an affable actress a devastate cyclone or mine own sweet self. and you presume to lecture me about my work. nilghai if it be worth while i d caricature you in four paper. 
the nilghai wince. he have not think of this. 
a it be i shall take this stuff and tear it small so. the manuscript flutter in slip down the dark well of the staircase. go home nilghai say dick. go home to your lonely little bed and leave me in peace. i be about to turn in till to morrow. 
why it isn t seven yet. say torpenhow with amazement. 
it shall be two in the morning if i choose say dick back to the studio door. i go to grapple with a serious crisis and i shan t want any dinner. 
the door shut and be lock. 
what can you do with a man like that. say the nilghai. 
leave him alone. he s a mad a a hatter. 
at eleven there be a kick on the studio door. be the nilghai with you still. say a voice from within. then tell him he might have condense the whole of his lumber nonsense into an epigram. only the free be bond and only the bond be free. tell him he s an idiot torp and tell him i m another. 
all right. come out and have supper. you re smoke on an empty stomach. 
there be no answer. 
chapter v. 
i have a thousand men say he to wait upon my will and tower nine upon the tyne and three upon the till. 
and what care i for you men say she or tower from tyne to till sith you must go with me she say to wait upon my will. sir hoggie and the fairy. 
next morning torpenhow find dick sink in deep repose of tobacco. 
well madman how d you feel. 
i don t know. i m try to find out. 
you have much good do some work. 
maybe. but i m in no hurry. i ve make a discovery. torp there s too much ego in my cosmos. 
not really. be this revelation due to my lecture or the nilghai s. 
it come to me suddenly all on my own account. much too much ego. and now i m go to work. 
he turn over a few half finish sketch drum on a new canvas clean three brush set binkie to bite the toe of the lay figure rattle through his collection of arm and accoutrement and then go out abruptly declare that he have do enough for the day. 
this be positively indecent say torpenhow and the first time that dick ha ever break up a light morning. perhaps he ha find out that he ha a soul or an artistic temperament or something equally valuable. that come of leave him alone for a month. perhaps he ha be go out of evening. i must look to this. he ring for the bald head old housekeeper whom nothing could astonish or annoy. 
beeton do mr. heldar dine out at all while i be out of town. 
never lay be dress clothe out once sir all the time. mostly e din in. but e bring some most remarkable young gentleman up ere after theatre once or twice. remarkable fancy they be. you gentleman on the top floor doe very much a you like but it do seem to me sir droppin a walkin stick down five flight o stair an then goin down four abreast to pick it up again at half past two in the mornin singin bring back the whiskey willie darlin not once or twice but score o time isn t charity to the other tenant. what i say be do a you would be do by. that s my motto. 
of course. of course. i m afraid the top floor isn t the quiet in the house. 
i make no complaint sir. i have speak to mr. heldar friendly an he laugh an do me a picture of the missis that be a good a a colour print. it asn t the high shine of a photograph but what i say be never look a gift horse in the mouth. mr. heldar s dress clothe aven t be on him for week. 
then it s all right say torpenhow to himself. orgy be healthy and dick ha a head of his own but when it come to woman make eye i m not so certain binkie never you be a man little dorglums. they re contrary brute and they do thing without any reason. 
dick have turn northward across the park but he be walk in the spirit on the mud flat with maisie. he laugh aloud a he remember the day when he have deck amomma s horn with the ham frill and maisie white with rage have cuff him. how long those four year seem in review and how closely maisie be connect with every hour of them. storm across the sea and maisie in a gray dress on the beach sweep her drench hair out of her eye and laugh at the homeward race of the fish smack. hot sunshine on the mud flat and maisie sniff scornfully with her chin in the air. maisie fly before the wind that thresh the foreshore and drive the sand like small shoot about her ear. maisie very compose and independent tell lie to mr. jennett while dick support her with coarse perjury. maisie pick her way delicately from stone to stone a pistol in her hand and her teeth firm set. and maisie in a gray dress sit on the grass between the mouth of a cannon and a nod yellow sea poppy. the picture pass before him one by one and the last stay the long. 
dick be perfectly happy with a quiet peace that be a new to his mind a it be foreign to his experience. it never occur to him that there might be other call upon his time than loaf across the park in the forenoon. 
there s a good work light now he say watch his shadow placidly. some poor devil ought to be grateful for this. and there s maisie. 
she be walk towards him from the marble arch and he saw that no mannerism of her gait have be change. it be good to find her still maisie and so to speak his next door neighbour. no greet pass between them because there have be none in the old day. 
what be you do out of your studio at this hour. say dick a one who be entitle to ask. 
idle. just idle. i get angry with a chin and scrap it out. then i leave it in a little heap of paint chip and come away. 
i know what palette knife mean. what be the piccy. 
a fancy head that wouldn t come right horrid thing. 
i don t like work over scrap paint when i m do flesh. the grain come up woolly a the paint dry. 
not if you scrape properly. maisie wave her hand to illustrate her method. there be a dab of paint on the white cuff. dick laugh. 
you re a untidy a ever. 
that come well from you. look at your own cuff. 
by jove yes. it s bad than yours. i don t think we ve much alter in anything. let s see though. he look at maisie critically. the pale blue haze of an autumn day creep between the tree trunk of the park and make a background for the gray dress the black velvet toque above the black hair and the resolute profile. 
no there s nothing change. how good it be. d you remember when i fasten your hair into the snap of a hand bag. 
maisie nod with a twinkle in her eye and turn her full face to dick. 
wait a minute say he. that mouth be down at the corner a little. who s be worry you maisie. 
no one but myself. i never seem to get on with my work and yet i try hard enough and kami say. 
continuez mademoiselle. continuez toujours me enfants. kami be depress. i beg your pardon. 
yes that s what he say. he tell me last summer that i be do good and he d let me exhibit this year. 
not in this place surely. 
of course not. the salon. 
you fly high. 
i ve be beat my wing long enough. where do you exhibit dick. 
i don t exhibit. i sell. what be your line then. 
haven t you hear. dick s eye open. be this thing possible. he cast about for some mean of conviction. they be not far from the marble arch. come up oxford street a little and i ll show you. 
a small knot of people stand round a print shop that dick know well. 
some reproduction of my work inside he say with suppress triumph. never before have success taste so sweet upon the tongue. you see the sort of thing i paint. d you like it. 
maisie look at the wild whirl rush of a field battery go into action under fire. two artillery men stand behind her in the crowd. 
they ve chuck the off lead orse say one to the other. e s tear up awful but they re makin good time with the others. that lead driver drive good nor you tom. see ow cunnin e s nursin be orse. 
number three ll be off the limber next jolt be the answer. 
no e win t. see ow be foot s brace against the iron. e s all right. 
dick watch maisie s face and swell with joy fine rank vulgar triumph. she be more interest in the little crowd than in the picture. that be something that she could understand. 
and i want it so. oh i do want it so. she say at last under her breath. 
me all me. say dick placidly. look at their face. it hit em. they don t know what make their eye and mouth open. but i know. and i know my work s right. 
yes. i see. oh what a thing to have come to one. 
come to one indeed. i have to go out and look for it. what do you think. 
i call it success. tell me how you get it. 
they return to the park and dick deliver himself of the saga of his own do with all the arrogance of a young man speak to a woman. 
from the begin he tell the tale the i i i s flash through the record a telegraph pole fly past the traveller. maisie listen and nod her head. the history of strife and privation do not move her a hair s breadth. at the end of each canto he would conclude and that give me some notion of handle colour or light or whatever it might be that he have set out to pursue and understand. he lead her breathless across half the world speak a he have never speak in his life before. 
and in the flood tide of his exaltation there come upon him a great desire to pick up this maiden who nod her head and say i understand. go on to pick her up and carry her away with him because she be maisie and because she understand and because she be his right and a woman to be desire above all woman. 
then he check himself abruptly. and so i take all i want he say and i have to fight for it. now you tell. 
maisie s tale be almost a gray a her dress. it cover year of patient toil back by savage pride that would not be break though dealer laugh and fog delay work and kami be unkind and even sarcastic and girl in other studio be painfully polite. it have a few bright spot in picture accept at provincial exhibition but it wind up with the oft repeat wail and so you see dick i have no success though i work so hard. 
then pity fill dick. even thus have maisie speak when she could not hit the breakwater half an hour before she have kiss him. and that have happen yesterday. 
never mind he say. i ll tell you something if you ll believe it. the word be shape themselves of their own accord. the whole thing lock stock and barrel isn t worth one big yellow sea poppy below fort keel. maisie flush a little. it s all very well for you to talk but you ve have the success and i haven t. 
let me talk then. i know you ll understand. maisie dear it sound a bite absurd but those ten year never exist and i ve come back again. it really be just the same. can t you see. you re alone now and i m alone. what s the use of worry. come to me instead darling. 
maisie poke the gravel with her parasol. they be sit on a bench. 
i understand she say slowly. but i ve get my work to do and i must do it. 
do it with me then dear. i win t interrupt. 
no i couldn t. it s my work mine mine mine. i ve be alone all my life in myself and i m not go to belong to anybody except myself. i remember thing a well a you do but that doesn t count. we be baby then and we didn t know what be before u. dick don t be selfish. i think i see my way to a little success next year. don t take it away from me. 
i beg your pardon darling. it s my fault for speak stupidly. i can t expect you to throw up all your life just because i m back. i ll go to my own place and wait a little. 
but dick i don t want you to go out of my life now you ve just come back. 
i m at your order. forgive me. dick devour the trouble little face with his eye. there be triumph in them because he could not conceive that maisie should refuse sooner or late to love him since he love her. 
it s wrong of me say maisie more slowly than before. it s wrong and selfish. but oh i ve be so lonely. no you misunderstand. now i ve see you again it s absurd but i want to keep you in my life. 
naturally. we belong. 
we don t. but you always understand me and there be so much in my work that you could help me in. you know thing and the way of do thing. you must. 
i do i fancy or else i don t know myself. then you win t care to lose sight of me altogether and you want me to help you in your work. 
yes. but remember dick nothing will ever come of it. that s why i feel so selfish. can t thing stay a they be. i do want your help. 
you shall have it. but let s consider. i must see your pic first and overhaul your sketch and find out about your tendency. you should see what the paper say about my tendency. then i ll give you good advice and you shall paint accord. isn t that it maisie. 
again there be triumph in dick s eye. 
it s too good of you much too good. because you be console yourself with what will never happen and i know that and yet i want to keep you. don t blame me late please. 
i m go into the matter with my eye open. moreover the queen can do no wrong. it isn t your selfishness that impress me. it s your audacity in propose to make use of me. 
pooh. you re only dick and a print shop. 
very good. that s all i be. but maisie you believe don t you that i love you. i don t want you to have any false notion about brother and sister. 
maisie look up for a moment and drop her eye. 
it s absurd but i believe. i wish i could send you away before you get angry with me. but but the girl that life with me be red haired and an impressionist and all our notion clash. 
so do ours i think. never mind. three month from today we shall be laugh at this together. 
maisie shake her head mournfully. i know you wouldn t understand and it will only hurt you more when you find out. look at my face dick and tell me what you see. 
they stand up and face each other for a moment. the fog be gather and it stifle the roar of the traffic of london beyond the railing. dick bring all his painfully acquire knowledge of face to bear on the eye mouth and chin underneath the black velvet toque. 
it s the same maisie and it s the same me he say. we ve both nice little will of our own and one or other of u ha to be break. now about the future. i must come and see your picture some day i suppose when the red haired girl be on the premise. 
sunday be my best time. you must come on sunday. there be such heap of thing i want to talk about and ask your advice about. now i must get back to work. 
try to find out before next sunday what i be say dick. don t take my word for anything i ve tell you. good bye darling and bless you. 
maisie steal away like a little gray mouse. dick watch her till she be out of sight but he do not hear her say to herself very soberly i m a wretch a horrid selfish wretch. but it s dick and dick will understand. 
no one ha yet explain what actually happen when an irresistible force meet the immovable post though many have think deeply even a dick think. he try to assure himself that maisie would be lead in a few week by his mere presence and discourse to a good way of think. then he remember much too distinctly her face and all that be write on it. 
if i know anything of head he say there s everything in that face but love. i shall have to put that in myself. and that chin and mouth win t be win for nothing. but she s right. she know what she want and she s go to get it. what insolence. me. of all the people in the wide world to use me. but then she s maisie. there s no get over that fact. and it s good to see her again. this business must have be simmer at the back of my head for year. she ll use me a i use binat at port say. she s quite right. it will hurt a little. i shall have to see her every sunday like a young man court a housemaid. she s sure to come around. and yet that mouth isn t a yield mouth. i shall be want to kiss her all the time and i shall have to look at her picture i don t even know what sort of work she doe yet and i shall have to talk about art woman s art. therefore particularly and perpetually damn all variety of art. it do me a good turn once and now it s in my way. i ll go home and do some art. 
half way to the studio dick be smite with a terrible think. the figure of a solitary woman in the fog suggest it. 
she s all alone in london with a red haired impressionist girl who probably ha the digestion of an ostrich. most red haired people have. maisie s a bilious little body. they ll eat like lone woman meal at all hour and tea with all meal. i remember how the student in paris use to pig along. she may fall ill at any minute and i shan t be able to help. whew. this be ten time bad than own a wife. 
torpenhow enter the studio at dusk and look at dick with eye full of the austere love that spring up between men who have tug at the same oar together and be yoke by custom and use and the intimacy of toil. this be a good love and since it allow and even encourage strife recrimination and brutal sincerity doe not die but grow and be proof against any absence and evil conduct. 
dick be silent after he hand torpenhow the fill pipe of council. he think of maisie and her possible need. it be a new thing to think of anybody but torpenhow who could think for himself. here at last be an outlet for that cash balance. he could adorn maisie barbarically with jewelry a thick gold necklace round that little neck bracelet upon the round arm and ring of price upon her hand the cool temperate ringless hand that he have take between his own. it be an absurd think for maisie would not even allow him to put one ring on one finger and she would laugh at golden trapping. it would be good to sit with her quietly in the dusk his arm around her neck and her face on his shoulder a befit husband and wife. torpenhow s boot creak that night and his strong voice jar. dick s brow contract and he murmur an evil word because he have take all his success a a right and part payment for past discomfort and now he be check in his stride by a woman who admit all the success and do not instantly care for him. 
i say old man say torpenhow who have make one or two vain attempt at conversation i haven t put your back up by anything i ve say lately have i. 
you. no. how could you. 
liver out of order. 
the truly healthy man doesn t know he ha a liver. i m only a bite worry about thing in general. i suppose it s my soul. 
the truly healthy man doesn t know he ha a soul. what business have you with luxury of that kind. 
it come of itself. who s the man that say that we re all island shout lie to each other across sea of misunderstand. 
he s right whoever he be except about the misunderstand. i don t think we could misunderstand each other. 
the blue smoke curl back from the ceiling in cloud. then torpenhow insinuatingly dick be it a woman. 
be hang if it s anything remotely resemble a woman. and if you begin to talk like that i ll hire a red brick studio with white paint trimming and begonia and petunia and blue hungarias to play among three and sixpenny pot palm and i ll mount all my pic in aniline dye plush plaster and i ll invite every woman who maunder over what her guide book tell her be art and you shall receive em torp in a snuff brown velvet coat with yellow trouser and an orange tie. you ll like that. 
too thin dick. a good man than you once deny with curse and swear. you ve overdo it just a he do. it s no business of mine of course but it s comfort to think that somewhere under the star there s save up for you a tremendous thrash. whether it ll come from heaven or earth i don t know but it s bind to come and break you up a little. you want hammer. 
dick shiver. all right say he. when this island be disintegrate it will call for you. 
i shall come round the corner and help to disintegrate it some more. we re talk nonsense. come along to a theatre. 
chapter vi. 
and you may lead a thousand men nor ever draw the rein but ere ye lead the faery queen twill burst your heart in twain. 
he ha slip his foot from the stirrup bar the bridle from his hand and he be bind by hand and foot to the queen o faery land. sir hoggie and the fairy. 
some week late on a very foggy sunday dick be return across the park to his studio. this he say be evidently the thrash that torp mean. it hurt more than i expect. but the queen can do no wrong. and she certainly ha some notion of draw. 
he have just finish a sunday visit to maisie always under the green eye of the red haired impressionist girl whom he learn to hate at sight and be tingle with a keen sense of shame. sunday after sunday put on his best clothe he have walk over to the untidy house north of the park first to see maisie s picture and then to criticise and advise upon them a he realise that they be production on which advice would not be waste. sunday after sunday and his love grow with each visit he have be compel to cram his heart back from between his lip when it prompt him to kiss maisie several time and very much indeed. sunday after sunday the head above the heart have warn him that maisie be not yet attainable and that it would be good to talk a connectedly a possible upon the mystery of the craft that be all in all to her. therefore it be his fate to endure weekly torture in the studio build out over the clammy back garden of a frail stuffy little villa where nothing be ever in it right place and nobody every call to endure and to watch maisie move to and fro with the teacup. he abhor tea but since it give him a little long time in her presence he drink it devoutly and the red haired girl sit in an untidy heap and eye him without speak. she be always watch him. 
once and only once when she have leave the studio maisie show him an album that hold a few poor cutting from provincial paper the brief of hurry note on some of her picture send to outlying exhibition. dick stoop and kiss the paint smudge thumb on the open page. oh my love my love he mutter do you value these thing. chuck em into the waste paper basket. 
not till i get something good say maisie shut the book. 
then dick move by no respect for his public and a very deep regard for the maiden do deliberately propose in order to secure more of these covet cutting that he should paint a picture which maisie should sign. 
that s childish say maisie and i didn t think it of you. it must be my work. mine mine mine. 
go and design decorative medallion for rich brewer house. you be thoroughly good at that. dick be sick and savage. 
good thing than medallion dick be the answer in tone that recall a gray eye atom s fearless speech to mr. jennett. dick would have abase himself utterly but that other girl trail in. 
next sunday he lay at maisie s foot small gift of pencil that could almost draw of themselves and colour in whose permanence he believe and he be ostentatiously attentive to the work in hand. it demand among other thing an exposition of the faith that be in him. 
torpenhow s hair would have stand on end have he hear the fluency with which dick preach his own gospel of art. 
a month before dick would have be equally astonish. but it be maisie s will and pleasure and he drag his word together to make plain to her comprehension all that have be hide to himself of the why and wherefore of work. there be not the least difficulty in do a thing if you only know how to do it. the trouble be to explain your method. 
i could put this right if i have a brush in my hand say dick despairingly over the model of a chin that maisie complain would not look flesh it be the same chin that she have scrap out with the palette knife but i find it almost impossible to teach you. there s a queer grim dutch touch about your paint that i like. but i ve a notion that you re weak in draw. you foreshorten a though you never use the model and you ve catch kami s pasty way of deal with flesh in shadow. then again though you don t know it yourself you shirk hard work. suppose you spend some of your time on line lone. line doesn t allow of shirk. oil do and three square inch of flashy tricky stuff in the corner of a pic sometimes carry a bad thing off a i know. that s immoral. do line work for a little while and then i can tell more about your power a old kami use to say. 
maisie protest. she do not care for the pure line. 
i know say dick. you want to do your fancy head with a bunch of flower at the base of the neck to hide bad model. the red haired girl laugh a little. you want to do landscape with cattle knee deep in grass to hide bad draw. you want to do a great deal more than you can do. you have sense of colour but you want form. colour s a gift put it aside and think no more about it but form you can be drill into. now all your fancy head and some of them be very good will keep you exactly where you be. with line you must go forward or backward and it will show up all your weakness. 
but other people begin maisie. 
you mustn t mind what other people do. if their soul be your soul it would be different. you stand and fall by your own work remember and it s waste of time to think of any one else in this battle. 
dick pause and the long that have be so resolutely put away come back into his eye. he look at maisie and the look ask a plainly a word be it not time to leave all this barren wilderness of canvas and counsel and join hand with life and love. maisie assent to the new programme of school so adorably that dick could hardly restrain himself from pick her up then and there and carry her off to the near registrar s office. it be the implicit obedience to the speak word and the blank indifference to the unspoken desire that baffle and buffet his soul. he hold authority in that house authority limit indeed to one half of one afternoon in seven but very real while it last. maisie have learn to appeal to him on many subject from the proper pack of picture to the condition of a smoky chimney. the red haired girl never consult him about anything. 
on the other hand she accept his appearance without protest and watch him always. he discover that the meal of the establishment be irregular and fragmentary. they depend chiefly on tea pickle and biscuit a he have suspect from the begin. the girl be suppose to market week and week about but they live with the help of a charwoman a casually a the young raven. maisie spend most of her income on model and the other girl revel in apparatus a refine a her work be rough. arm with knowledge dear buy from the dock dick warn maisie that the end of semi starvation mean the cripple of power to work which be considerably bad than death. 
maisie take the warn and give more think to what she eat and drink. when his trouble return upon him a it generally do in the long winter twilight the remembrance of that little act of domestic authority and his coercion with a hearth brush of the smoky draw room chimney sting dick like a whip lash. 
he conceive that this memory would be the extreme of his suffering till one sunday the red haired girl announce that she would make a study of dick s head and that he would be good enough to sit still and quite a an afterthought look at maisie. he sit because he could not well refuse and for the space of half an hour he reflect on all the people in the past whom he have lay open for the purpose of his own craft. he remember binat most distinctly that binat who have once be an artist and talk about degradation. 
it be the mere monochrome rough in of a head but it present the dumb wait the long and above all the hopeless enslavement of the man in a spirit of bitter mockery. 
i ll buy it say dick promptly at your own price. 
my price be too high but i dare say you ll be a grateful if the wet sketch flutter from the girl s hand and fell into the ash of the studio stave. when she pick it up it be hopelessly smudge. 
oh it s all spoil. say maisie. and i never saw it. be it like. 
thank you say dick under his breath to the red haired girl and he remove himself swiftly. 
how that man hate me. say the girl. and how he love you maisie. 
what nonsense. i know dick s very fond of me but he have his work to do and i have mine. 
yes he be fond of you and i think he know there be something in impressionism after all. maisie can t you see. 
see. see what. 
nothing. only i know that if i could get any man to look at me a that man look at you i d i don t know what i d do. but he hate me. oh how he hate me. 
she be not altogether correct. dick s hatred be temper with gratitude for a few moment and then he forget the girl entirely. only the sense of shame remain and he be nurse it across the park in the fog. there ll be an explosion one of these day he say wrathfully. but it isn t maisie s fault. she s right quite right a far a she know and i can t blame her. this business ha be go on for three month nearly. three month. and it cost me ten year knock about to get at the notion the mere raw notion of my work. that s true. but then i didn t have pin draw pin and palette knife stick into me every sunday. 
oh my little darling if ever i break you somebody will have a very bad time of it. no she win t. i d be a big a fool about her a i be now. i ll poison that red haired girl on my wed day she s unwholesome and now i ll pas on these present bad time to torp. 
torpenhow have be move to lecture dick more than once lately on the sin of levity and dick and listen and reply not a word. in the week between the first few sunday of his discipline he have fling himself savagely into his work resolve that maisie should at least know the full stretch of his power. then he have teach maisie that she must not pay the least attention to any work outside her own and maisie have obey him all too well. she take his counsel but be not interest in his picture. 
your thing smell of tobacco and blood she say once. can t you do anything except soldier. 
i could do a head of you that would startle you think dick this be before the red haired girl have bring him under the guillotine but he only say i be very sorry and harrow torpenhow s soul that even with blasphemy against art. late insensibly and to a large extent against his own will he cease to interest himself in his own work. 
for maisie s sake and to soothe the self respect that it seem to him he lose each sunday he would not consciously turn out bad stuff but since maisie do not care even for his best it be good not to do anything at all save wait and mark time between sunday and sunday. torpenhow be disgust a the week go by fruitless and then attack him one sunday even when dick felt utterly exhaust after three hour bite self restraint in maisie s presence. there be language and torpenhow withdraw to consult the nilghai who have come it to talk continental politics. 
bone idle be he. careless and touch in the temper. say the nilghai. it isn t worth worry over. dick be probably play the fool with a woman. 
isn t that bad enough. 
no. she may throw him out of gear and knock his work to piece for a while. she may even turn up here some day and make a scene on the staircase. one never know. but until dick speak of his own accord you have good not touch him. he be no easy temper man to handle. 
no. i wish he be. he be such an aggressive cocksure you be damn fellow. 
he ll get that knock out of him in time. he must learn that he can t storm up and down the world with a box of moist tube and a slick brush. 
you re fond of him. 
i d take any punishment that s in store for him if i could. but the bad of it be no man can save his brother. 
no and the worse of it be there be no discharge in this war. dick must learn his lesson like the rest of u. talk of war there ll be trouble in the balkan in the spring. 
that trouble be long come. i wonder if we could drag dick out there when it come off. 
dick enter the room soon afterwards and the question be put to him. 
not good enough he say shortly. i m too comf y where i be. 
surely you aren t take all the stuff in the paper seriously. say the nilghai. your vogue will be end in le than six month the public will know your touch and go on to something new and where will you be then. 
here in england. 
when you might be do decent work among u out there. nonsense. i shall go the keneu will be there torp will be there cassavetti will be there and the whole lot of u will be there and we shall have a much a ever we can do with unlimited fight and the chance for you of see thing that would make the reputation of three verestchagins. 
um. say dick pull at his pipe. 
you prefer to stay here and imagine that all the world be gap at your picture. just think how full an average man s life be of his own pursuit and pleasure. when twenty thousand of him find time to look up between mouthful and grunt something about something they aren t the least interest in the net result be call fame reputation or notoriety accord to the taste and fancy of the speller my lord. 
i know that a well a you do. give me credit for a little gumption. 
be hang if i do. 
be hang then. you probably will be for a spy by excite turk. heigh ho. i m weary dead weary and virtue ha go out of me. dick drop into a chair and be fast asleep in a minute. 
that s a bad sign say the nilghai in an undertone. 
torpenhow pick the pipe from the waistcoat where it be begin to burn and put a pillow behind the head. we can t help. we can t help he say. it s a good ugly sort of old cocoanut and i m fond of it. there s the scar of the wipe he get when he be cut over in the square. 
shouldn t wonder if that ha make him a trifle mad. 
i should. he s a most businesslike madman. 
then dick begin to snore furiously. 
oh here no affection can stand this sort of thing. wake up dick and go and sleep somewhere else if you intend to make a noise about it. 
when a cat ha be out on the tile all night say the nilghai in his beard i notice that she usually sleep all day. this be natural history. 
dick stagger away rub his eye and yawn. in the night watch he be overtake with an idea so simple and so luminous that he wonder he have never conceive it before. it be full of craft. he would seek maisie on a week day would suggest an excursion and would take her by train to fort keel over the very grind that they two have tread together ten year ago. 
a a general rule he explain to his chin lather reflection in the morning it isn t safe to cross an old trail twice. thing remind one of thing and a cold wind get up and you feel sad. but this be an exception to every rule that ever be. i ll go to maisie at once. 
fortunately the red haired girl be out shop when he arrive and maisie in a paint spatter blouse be war with her canvas. she be not please to see him. for week day visit be a stretch of the bond. and it need all his courage to explain his errand. 
i know you ve be work too hard he conclude with an air of authority. if you do that you ll break down. you have much good come. 
where. say maisie wearily. she have be stand before her easel too long and be very tire. 
anywhere you please. we ll take a train tomorrow and see where it stop. we ll have lunch somewhere and i ll bring you back in the even. 
if there s a good work light tomorrow i lose a day. maisie balance the heavy white chestnut palette irresolutely. 
dick bite back an oath that be hurry to his lip. he have not yet learn patience with the maiden to whom her work be all in all. 
you ll lose ever so many more dear if you use every hour of work light. overwork s only murderous idleness. don t be unreasonable. i ll call for you tomorrow after breakfast early. 
but surely you be go to ask. 
no i be not. i want you and nobody else. besides she hate me a much a i hate her. she win t care to come. tomorrow then. and pray that we get sunshine. 
dick go away delight and by consequence do no work whatever. 
he strangle a wild desire to order a special train but buy a great gray kangaroo cloak line with glossy black marten and then retire into himself to consider thing. 
i m go out for the day tomorrow with dick say maisie to the red haired girl when the latter return tire from market in the edgware road. 
he deserve it. i shall have the studio floor thoroughly scrub while you re away. it s very dirty. 
maisie have enjoy no sort of holiday for month and look forward to the little excitement but not without misgiving. 
there s nobody nice than dick when he talk sensibly she think but i m sure he ll be silly and worry me and i m sure i can t tell him anything he d like to hear. if he d only be sensible i should like him so much good. 
dick s eye be full of joy when he make his appearance next morning and saw maisie gray ulstered and black velvet hat stand in the hallway. palace of marble and not sordid imitation of grain wood be surely the fit background for such a divinity. the red haired girl draw her into the studio for a moment and kiss her hurriedly. 
maisie s eyebrow climb to the top of her forehead. she be altogether unused to these demonstration. mind my hat she say hurry away and run down the step to dick wait by the hansom. 
be you quite warm enough. be you sure you wouldn t like some more breakfast. put the cloak over your knee. 
i m quite comf y thank. where be we go dick. oh do stop sing like that. people will think we re mad. 
let em think if the exertion doesn t kill them. they don t know who we be and i m sure i don t care who they be. my faith maisie you re look lovely. 
maisie star directly in front of her and do not reply. the wind of a keen clear winter morning have put colour into her cheek. overhead the creamy yellow smoke cloud be thin away one by one against a pale blue sky and the improvident sparrow break off from water spout committee and cab rank cabal to clamour of the come of spring. 
it will be lovely weather in the country say dick. 
but where be we go. 
wait and see. 
the stop at victoria and dick seek ticket. for le than half the fraction of an instant it occur to maisie comfortably settle by the wait room fire that it be much more pleasant to send a man to the book office than to elbow one s own way through the crowd. dick put her into a pullman solely on account of the warmth there. and she regard the extravagance with grave scandalise eye a the train move out into the country. 
i wish i know where we be go she repeat for the twentieth time. 
the name of a well remember station flash by towards the end of the run and maisie be delight. 
oh dick you villain. 
well i think you might like to see the place again. you haven t be here since the old time have you. 
no. i never care to see mr. jennett again. and she be all that be ever there. 
not quite. look out a minute. there s the windmill above the potato field. they haven t build villa there yet. d you remember when i shut you up in it. 
yes. how she beat you for it. i never tell it be you. 
she guess. i jam a stick under the door and tell you that i be bury amomma alive in the potato and you believe me. you have a trust nature in those day. 
they laugh and lean to look out identify ancient landmark with many reminiscence. dick fix his weather eye on the curve of maisie s cheek very near his own and watch the blood rise under the clear skin. he congratulate himself upon his cunning and look that the even would bring him a great reward. 
when the train stop they go out to look at an old town with new eye. first but from a distance they regard the house of mr. jennett. 
suppose she should come out now what would you do. say dick with mock terror. 
i should make a face. 
show then say dick drop into the speech of childhood. 
maisie make that face in the direction of the mean little villa and dick laugh. 
this be disgraceful say maisie mimic mr. jennett s tone. maisie you run in at once and learn the collect gospel and epistle for the next three sunday. after all i ve teach you too and three help every sunday at dinner. dick s always lead you into mischief. if you aren t a gentleman dick you might at least. 
the sentence end abruptly. maisie remember when it have last be use. 
try to behave like one say dick promptly. quite right. now we ll get some lunch and go on to fort keel unless you d rather drive there. 
we must walk out of respect to the place. how little change it all be. 
they turn in the direction of the sea through unaltered street and the influence of old thing lay upon them. presently they pass a confectioner s shop much consider in the day when their joint pocket money amount to a shill a week. 
dick have you any penny. say maisie half to herself. 
only three. and if you think you re go to have two of em to buy peppermint with you re wrong. she say peppermint aren t ladylike. 
again they laugh and again the colour come into maisie s cheek a the blood boil through dick s heart. after a large lunch they go down to the beach and to fort keel across the waste wind bite land that no builder have think it worth his while to defile. the winter breeze come in from the sea and sing about their ear. 
maisie say dick your nose be get a crude prussian blue at the tip. i ll race you a far a you please for a much a you please. 
she look round cautiously and with a laugh set off swiftly a the ulster allow till she be out of breath. 
we use to run mile she pant. it s absurd that we can t run now. 
old age dear. this it be to get fat and sleek in town. when i wish to pull your hair you generally run for three mile shriek at the top of your voice. i ought to know because those shriek of yours be mean to call up mr. jennett with a cane and. 
dick i never get you a beat on purpose in my life. 
no of course you never do. good heaven. look at the sea. 
why it s the same a ever. say maisie. 
torpenhow have gather from mr. beeton that dick properly dress and shave have leave the house at half past eight in the morning with a travel rug over his arm. the nilghai roll in at mid day for chess and polite conversation. 
it s bad than anything i imagine say torpenhow. 
oh the everlasting dick i suppose. you fuss over him like a hen with one chick. let him run riot if he think it ll amuse him. you can whip a young pup off feather but you can t whip a young man. 
it isn t a woman. it s one woman. and it s a girl. 
where s your proof. 
he get up and go out at eight this morning get up in the middle of the night by jove. a thing he never doe except when he s on service. even then remember we have to kick him out of his blanket before the fight begin at el maghrib. it s disgust. 
it look odd. but maybe he s decide to buy a horse at last. he might get up for that mightn t he. 
buy a blaze wheelbarrow. he d have tell u if there be a horse in the wind. it s a girl. 
don t be certain. perhaps it s only a marry woman. 
dick ha some sense of humour if you haven t. who get up in the gray dawn to call on another man s wife. it s a girl. 
let it be a girl then. she may teach him that there s somebody else in the world besides himself. 
she ll spoil his hand. she ll waste his time and she ll marry him and ruin his work for ever. he ll be a respectable marry man before we can stop him and he ll ever go on the long trail again. 
all quite possible but the earth win t spin the other way when that happen. no. ho. i d give something to see dick go woo with the boy. don t worry about it. these thing be with allah and we can only look on. get the chessman. 
the red haired girl be lie down in her own room star at the ceiling. the footstep of people on the pavement sound a they grow indistinct in the distance like a many time repeat kiss that be all one long kiss. her hand be by her side and they open and shut savagely from time to time. 
the charwoman in charge of the scrub of the studio knock at her door. beg y pardon miss but in cleanin of a floor there s two not to say three kind of soap which be yaller an mottle an disinfectink. now jist before i take my pail into the passage i though it would be pre aps jest a well if i be to come up ere an ask you what sort of soap you be wishful that i should use on them board. the yaller soap miss. 
there be nothing in the speech to have cause the paroxysm of fury that drive the red haired girl into the middle of the room almost shout do you suppose i care what you use. any kind will do. any kind. 
the woman flee and the red haired girl look at her own reflection in the glass for an instant and cover her face with her hand. it be a though she have shout some shameless secret aloud. 
chapter vii. 
rose red and rose white pluck i for my love s delight. 
she would none of all my posy bid me gather her blue rose. 
half the world i wander through seek where such flower grow. half the world unto my quest answer but with laugh and jest. 
it may be beyond the grave she shall find what she would have. 
mine be but an idle quest rose white and red be best. blue rose. 
indeed the sea have not change. it water be low on the mud bank and the marazion bell buoy clank and swing in the tide way. on the white beach sand dry stump of sea poppy shiver and chatter. 
i don t see the old breakwater say maisie under her breath. 
let s be thankful that we have a much a we have. i don t believe they ve mount a single new gun on the fort since we be here. come and look. 
they come to the glacis of fort keel and sit down in a nook shelter from the wind under the tar throat of a forty pounder cannon. 
now if ammoma be only here. say maisie. 
for a long time both be silent. then dick take maisie s hand and call her by her name. 
she shake her head and look out to sea. 
maisie darling doesn t it make any difference. 
no. between clench teeth. i d i d tell you if it do. but it doesn t. oh dick please be sensible. 
don t you think that it ever will. 
no i m sure it win t. 
why. 
maisie rest her chin on her hand and still regard the sea speak hurriedly i know what you want perfectly well but i can t give it to you dick. it isn t my fault. indeed it isn t. if i felt that i could care for any one but i don t feel that i care. i simply don t understand what the feel mean. 
be that true dear. 
you ve be very good to me dickie. and the only way i can pay you back be by speak the truth. i daren t tell a fib. i despise myself quite enough a it be. 
what in the world for. 
because because i take everything that you give me and i give you nothing in return. it s mean and selfish of me and whenever i think of it it worry me. 
understand once for all then that i can manage my own affair and if i choose to do anything you aren t to blame. you haven t a single thing to reproach yourself with darling. 
yes i have and talk only make it bad. 
then don t talk about it. 
how can i help myself. if you find me alone for a minute you be always talk about it. and when you aren t you look it. you don t know how i despise myself sometimes. 
great goodness. say dick nearly jump to his foot. speak the truth now maisie if you never speak it again. do i doe this worry bore you. 
no. it doe not. 
you d tell me if it do. 
i should let you know i think. 
thank you. the other thing be fatal. but you must learn to forgive a man when he s in love. he s always a nuisance. you must have know that. 
maisie do not consider the last question worth answer and dick be force to repeat it. 
there be other men of course. they always worry just when i be in the middle of my work and want me to listen to them. 
do you listen. 
at first. and they couldn t understand why i didn t care. and they use to praise my picture. and i think they mean it. i use to be proud of the praise and tell kami and i shall never forget once kami laugh at me. 
you don t like be laugh at maisie do you. 
i hate it. i never laugh at other people unless unless they do bad work. dick tell me honestly what you think of my picture generally of everything of mine that you ve see. 
honest honest and honest over. quote dick from a catchword of long ago. tell me what kami always say. 
maisie hesitate. he he say that there be feel in them. 
how dare you tell me a fib like that. remember i be under kami for two year. i know exactly what he say. 
it isn t a fib. 
it s bad. it s a half truth. kami say when he put his head on one side so il y a du sentiment mais il n y a pa de parti pris. he roll the r threateningly a kami use to do. 
yes that be what he say. and i m begin to think that he be right. 
certainly he be. dick admit that two people in the world could do and say no wrong. kami be the man. 
and now you say the same thing. it s so dishearten. 
i m sorry but you ask me to speak the truth. besides i love you too much to pretend about your work. it s strong it s patient sometimes not always and sometimes there s power in it but there s no special reason why it should be do at all. at least that s how it strike me. 
there s no special reason why anything in the world should ever be do. you know that a well a i do. i only want success. 
you re go the wrong way to get it then. hasn t kami ever tell you so. 
don t quote kami to me. i want to know what you think. my work s bad to begin with. 
i didn t say that and i don t think it. 
it s amateurish then. 
that it most certainly be not. you re a work woman darling to your boot heel and i respect you for that. 
you don t laugh at me behind my back. 
no dear. you see you be more to me than any one else. put this cloak thing round you or you ll get chill. 
maisie wrap herself in the soft marten skin turn the gray kangaroo fur to the outside. this be delicious she say rub her chin thoughtfully along the fur. 
well. why be i wrong in try to get a little success. 
just because you try. don t you understand darling. good work ha nothing to do with doesn t belong to the person who doe it. it s put into him or her from outside. 
but how doe that affect. 
wait a minute. all we can do be to learn how to do our work to be master of our material instead of servant and never to be afraid of anything. 
i understand that. 
everything else come from outside ourselves. very good. if we sit down quietly to work out notion that be send to u we may or we may not do something that isn t bad. a great deal depend on be master of the brick and mortar of the trade. but the instant we begin to think about success and the effect of our work to play with one eye on the gallery we lose power and touch and everything else. at least that s how i have find it. instead of be quiet and give every power you posse to your work you re fret over something which you can neither help no hind by a minute. see. 
it s so easy for you to talk in that way. people like what you do. don t you ever think about the gallery. 
much too often. but i m always punish for it by loss of power. it s a simple a the rule of three. if we make light of our work by use it for our own end our work will make light of u and a we re the weak we shall suffer. 
i don t treat my work lightly. you know that it s everything to me. 
of course. but whether you realise it or not you give two stroke for yourself to one for your work. it isn t your fault darling. i do exactly the same thing and know that i m do it. most of the french school and all the school here drive the student to work for their own credit and for the sake of their pride. i be tell that all the world be interest in my work and everybody at kami s talk turpentine and i honestly believe that the world need elevate and influence and all manner of impertinence by my brush. by jove i actually believe that. when my little head be burst with a notion that i couldn t handle because i hadn t sufficient knowledge of my craft i use to run about wonder at my own magnificence and get ready to astonish the world. 
but surely one can do that sometimes. 
very seldom with malice aforethought darling. and when it s do it s such a tiny thing and the world s so big and all but a millionth part of it doesn t care. maisie come with me and i ll show you something of the size of the world. one can no more avoid work than eat that go on by itself but try to see what you be work for. i know such little heaven that i could take you to island tuck away under the line. you sight them after week of crash through water a black a black marble because it s so deep and you sit in the fore chain day after day and see the sun rise almost afraid because the sea s so lonely. 
who be afraid. you or the sun. 
the sun of course. and there be noise under the sea and sound overhead in a clear sky. then you find your island alive with hot moist orchid that make mouth at you and can do everything except talk. 
there s a waterfall in it three hundred foot high just like a sliver of green jade lace with silver. and million of wild bee live up in the rock. and you can hear the fat cocoanut fall from the palm. and you order an ivory white servant to sling you a long yellow hammock with tassel on it like ripe maize and you put up your foot and hear the bee hum and the water fall till you go to sleep. 
can one work there. 
certainly. one must do something always. you hang your canvas up in a palm tree and let the parrot criticise. when the scuffle you heave a ripe custard apple at them and it burst in a lather of cream. there be hundred of place. come and see them. 
i don t quite like that place. it sound lazy. tell me another. 
what do you think of a big red dead city build of red sandstone with raw green aloe grow between the stone lie out neglect on honey colour sand. there be forty dead king there maisie each in a gorgeous tomb fine than all the others. you look at the palace and street and shop and tank and think that men must live there till you find a wee gray squirrel rub it nose all alone in the market place and a jewel peacock strut out of a carve doorway and spread it tail against a marble screen a fine pierce a point lace. then a monkey a little black monkey walk through the main square to get a drink from a tank forty foot deep. he slide down the creeper to the water s edge and a friend hold him by the tail in case he should fall in. 
be that all true. 
i have be there and see. then even come and the light change till it s just a though you stand in the heart of a king opal. a little before sundown a punctually a clockwork a big bristly wild boar with all his family follow trot through the city gate churn the foam on his tusk. you climb on the shoulder of a blind black stone god and watch that pig choose himself a palace for the night and stump in wag his tail. then the night wind get up and the sand move and you hear the desert outside the city sing now i lay me down to sleep and everything be dark till the moon rise. maisie darling come with me and see what the world be really like. it s very lovely and it s very horrible but i win t let you see anything horrid and it doesn t care your life or mine for picture or anything else except do it own work and make love. come and i ll show you how to brew sangaree and sling a hammock and oh thousand of thing and you ll see for yourself what colour mean and we ll find out together what love mean and then maybe we shall be allow to do some good work. come away. 
why. say maisie. 
how can you do anything until you have see everything or a much a you can. and besides darling i love you. come along with me. you have no business here. you don t belong to this place. you re half a gipsy your face tell that. and i even the smell of open water make me restless. come across the sea and be happy. 
he have rise to his foot and stand in the shadow of the gun look down at the girl. the very short winter afternoon have wear away and before they know the winter moon be walk the untroubled sea. long rule line of silver show where a ripple of the rise tide be turn over the mud bank. the wind have drop and in the intense stillness they could hear a donkey crop the frosty grass many yard away. a faint beat like that of a muffle drum come out of the moon haze. 
what s that. say maisie quickly. it sound like a heart beat. where be it. 
dick be so angry at this sudden wrench to his pleading that he could not trust himself to speak and in this silence catch the sound. maisie from her seat under the gun watch him with a certain amount of fear. 
she wish so much that he would be sensible and cease to worry her with over sea emotion that she both could and could not understand. she be not prepare however for the change in his face a he listen. 
it s a steamer he say a twin screw steamer by the beat. i can t make her out but she must be stand very close inshore. ah. a the red of a rocket streak the haze she s stand in to signal before she clear the channel. 
be it a wreck. say maisie to whom these word be a greek. 
dick s eye be turn to the sea. wreck. what nonsense. she s only report herself. red rocket forward there s a green light aft now and two red rocket from the bridge. 
what doe that mean. 
it s the signal of the cross key line run to australia. i wonder which steamer it be. the note of his voice have change. he seem to be talk to himself and maisie do not approve of it. the moonlight break the haze for a moment touch the black side of a long steamer work down channel. four mast and three funnel she s in deep draught too. that must be the barralong or the bhutia. no the bhutia ha a clipper bow. it s the barralong to australia. she ll lift the southern cross in a week lucky old tub. oh lucky old tub. 
he star intently and move up the slope of the fort to get a good view but the mist on the sea thicken again and the beat of the screw grow faint. maisie call to him a little angrily and he return still keep his eye to seaward. have you ever see the southern cross blaze right over your head. he ask. it s superb. 
no she say shortly and i don t want to. if you think it s so lovely why don t you go and see it yourself. 
she raise her face from the soft blackness of the marten skin about her throat and her eye shine like diamond. the moonlight on the gray kangaroo fur turn it to frost silver of the cold. 
by jove maisie you look like a little heathen idol tuck up there. the eye show that they do not appreciate the compliment. i m sorry he continue. the southern cross isn t worth look at unless someone help you to see. that steamer s out of hear. 
dick she say quietly suppose i be to come to you now be quiet a minute just a i be and care for you just a much a i do. 
not a a brother though. you say you didn t in the park. 
i never have a brother. suppose i say take me to those place and in time perhaps i might really care for you what would you do. 
send you straight back to where you come from in a cab. no i wouldn t. i d let you walk. but you couldn t do it dear. and i wouldn t run the risk. you re worth wait for till you can come without reservation. 
do you honestly believe that. 
i have a hazy sort of idea that i do. ha it never strike you in that light. 
ye e. i feel so wicked about it. 
wicked than usual. 
you don t know all i think. it s almost too awful to tell. 
never mind. you promise to tell me the truth at least. 
it s so ungrateful of me but but though i know you care for me and i like to have you with me i d i d even sacrifice you if that would bring me what i want. 
my poor little darling. i know that state of mind. it doesn t lead to good work. 
you aren t angry. remember i do despise myself. 
i m not exactly flatter i have guess a much before but i m not angry. i m sorry for you. surely you ought to have leave a littleness like that behind you year ago. 
you ve no right to patronise me. i only want what i have work for so long. it come to you without any trouble and and i don t think it s fair. 
what can i do. i d give ten year of my life to get you what you want. but i can t help you. even i can t help. 
a murmur of dissent from maisie. he go on and i know by what you have just say that you re on the wrong road to success. it isn t get at by sacrifice other people i ve have that much knock into me. you must sacrifice yourself and live under order and never think for yourself and never have real satisfaction in your work except just at the begin when you re reach out after a notion. 
how can you believe all that. 
there s no question of belief or disbelief. that s the law and you take it or refuse it a you please. i try to obey but i can t and then my work turn bad on my hand. under any circumstance remember four fifth of everybody s work must be bad. but the remnant be worth the trouble for it own sake. 
isn t it nice to get credit even for bad work. 
it s much too nice. but may i tell you something. it isn t a pretty tale but you re so like a man that i forget when i m talk to you. 
tell me. 
once when i be out in the soudan i go over some grind that we have be fight on for three day. there be twelve hundred dead. and we hadn t time to bury them. 
how ghastly. 
i have be at work on a big double sheet sketch and i be wonder what people would think of it at home. the sight of that field teach me a good deal. it look just like a bed of horrible toadstool in all colour and i d never see men in bulk go back to their beginning before. so i begin to understand that men and woman be only material to work with and that what they say or do be of no consequence. see. strictly speak you might just a well put your ear down to the palette to catch what your colour be say. 
dick that s disgraceful. 
wait a minute. i say strictly speak. unfortunately everybody must be either a man or a woman. 
i m glad you allow that much. 
in your case i don t. you aren t a woman. but ordinary people maisie must behave and work a such. that s what make me so savage. he hurl a pebble towards the sea a he speak. i know that it be outside my business to care what people say. i can see that it spoil my output if i listen to em. and yet confound it all another pebble fly seaward i can t help purr when i m rub the right way. even when i can see on a man s forehead that he be lie his way through a clump of pretty speech those lie make me happy and play the mischief with my hand. 
and when he doesn t say pretty thing. 
then beloved dick grin i forget that i be the steward of these gift and i want to make that man love and appreciate my work with a thick stick. it s too humiliate altogether. but i suppose even if one be an angel and paint human altogether from outside one would lose in touch what one gain in grip. 
maisie laugh at the idea of dick a an angel. 
but you seem to think she say that everything nice spoil your hand. 
i don t think. it s the law just the same a it be at mr. jennett s. everything that be nice doe spoil your hand. i m glad you see so clearly. 
i don t like the view. 
nor i. but have get order. what can do. be you strong enough to face it alone. 
i suppose i must. 
let me help darling. we can hold each other very tight and try to walk straight. we shall blunder horribly but it will be good than stumble apart. maisie can t you see reason. 
i don t think we should get on together. we should be two of a trade so we should never agree. 
how i should like to meet the man who make that proverb. he live in a cave and eat raw bear i fancy. i d make him chew his own arrow head. well. 
i should be only half marry to you. i should worry and fuss about my work a i do now. four day out of the seven i m not fit to speak to. 
you talk a if no one else in the world have ever use a brush. d you suppose that i don t know the feel of worry and bother and can t get at ness. you re lucky if you only have it four day out of the seven. what difference would that make. 
a great deal if you have it too. 
yes but i could respect it. another man might not. he might laugh at you. but there s no use talk about it. if you can think in that way you can t care for me yet. 
the tide have nearly cover the mud bank and twenty little ripple break on the beach before maisie choose to speak. 
dick she say slowly i believe very much that you be good than i be. 
this doesn t seem to bear on the argument but in what way. 
i don t quite know but in what you say about work and thing. and then you re so patient. yes you re good than i be. 
dick consider rapidly the murkiness of an average man s life. there be nothing in the review to fill him with a sense of virtue. he lift the hem of the cloak to his lip. 
why say maisie make a though she have not notice can you see thing that i can t. i don t believe what you believe. but you re right i believe. 
if i ve see anything god know i couldn t have see it but for you and i know that i couldn t have say it except to you. you seem to make everything clear for a minute. but i don t practice what i preach. you would help me. there be only u two in the world for all purpose and and you like to have me with you. 
of course i do. i wonder if you can realise how utterly lonely i be. 
darling i think i can. 
two year ago when i first take the little house i use to walk up and down the back garden try to cry. i never can cry. can you. 
it s some time since i try. what be the trouble. overwork. 
i don t know. but i use to dream that i have break down and have no money and be starve in london. i think about it all day and it frighten me oh how it frighten me. 
i know that fear. it s the most terrible of all. it wake me up in the night sometimes. you oughtn t to know anything about it. 
how do you know. 
never mind. be your three hundred a year safe. 
it s in consols. 
very well. if any one come to you and recommend a good investment even if i should come to you don t you listen. never shift the money for a minute and never lend a penny of it even to the red haired girl. 
don t scold me so. i m not likely to be foolish. 
the earth be full of men who d sell their soul for three hundred a year. and woman come and talk and borrow a five pound note here and a ten pound note there. and a woman ha no conscience in a money debt. stick to your money maisie for there s nothing more ghastly in the world than poverty in london. it s scar me. by jove it put the fear into me. and one oughtn t to be afraid of anything. 
to each man be appoint his particular dread the terror that if he doe not fight against it must cow him even to the loss of his manhood. dick s experience of the sordid misery of want have enter into the deep of him and l he might find virtue too easy that memory stand behind him tempt to shame when dealer come to buy his ware. a the nilghai quake against his will at the still green water of a lake or a mill dam a torpenhow flinch before any white arm that could cut or stab and loathe himself for flinch dick fear the poverty he have once taste half in jest. his burden be heavy than the burden of his companion. 
maisie watch the face work in the moonlight. 
you ve plenty of penny now she say soothingly. 
i shall never have enough he begin with vicious emphasis. then laugh i shall always be three penny short in my account. 
why threepence. 
i carry a man s bag once from liverpool street station to blackfriar s bridge. it be a sixpenny job you needn t laugh. indeed it be and i want the money desperately. he only give me threepence. and he hadn t even the decency to pay in silver. whatever money i make i shall never get that odd threepence out of the world. 
this be not language befit the man who have preach of the sanctity of work. it jar on maisie who prefer her payment in applause which since all men desire it must be of the right. she hunt for her little purse and gravely take out a threepenny bite. 
there it be she say. i ll pay you dickie. and don t worry any more. it isn t worth while. be you pay. 
i be say the very human apostle of fair craft take the coin. i m pay a thousand time and we ll close that account. it shall live on my watch chain. and you re an angel maisie. 
i m very cramp and i m feel a little cold. good gracious. the cloak be all white and so be your moustache. i never know it be so chilly. 
a light frost lay white on the shoulder of dick s ulster. he too have forget the state of the weather. they laugh together and with that laugh end all serious discourse. 
they run inland across the waste to warm themselves then turn to look at the glory of the full tide under the moonlight and the intense black shadow of the furze bush. it be an additional joy to dick that maisie could see colour even a he saw it could see the blue in the white of the mist the violet that be in gray paling and all thing else a they be not of one hue but a thousand. and the moonlight come into maisie s soul so that she usually reserve chatter of herself and of the thing she take interest in of kami wise of teacher and of the girl in the studio of the pole who will kill themselves with overwork if they be not check. of the french who talk at great length of much more than they will ever accomplish. of the slovenly english who toil hopelessly and cannot understand that inclination doe not imply power. of the american whose rasp voice in the hush of a hot afternoon strain tense draw nerve to break point and whose supper lead to indigestion. of tempestuous russian neither to hold nor to bind who tell the girl ghost story till the girl shriek. of stolid german who come to learn one thing and have master that much stolidly go away and copy picture for evermore. dick listen enrapture because it be maisie who speak. he know the old life. 
it hasn t change much he say. do they still steal colour at lunch time. 
not steal. attract be the word. of course they do. i m good i only attract ultramarine. but there be student who d attract flake white. 
i ve do it myself. you can t help it when the palette be hang up. 
every colour be common property once it run down even though you do start it with a drop of oil. it teach people not to waste their tube. 
i should like to attract some of your colour dick. perhaps i might catch your success with them. 
i mustn t say a bad word but i should like to. what in the world which you ve just miss a lovely chance of see doe success or want of success or a three storied success matter compare with no i win t open that question again. it s time to go back to town. 
i m sorry dick but. 
you re much more interest in that than you be in me. 
i don t know i don t think i be. 
what will you give me if i tell you a sure short cut to everything you want the trouble and the fuss and the tangle and all the rest. will you promise to obey me. 
of course. 
in the first place you must never forget a meal because you happen to be at work. you forget your lunch twice last week say dick at a venture for he know with whom he be deal. 
no no only once really. 
that s bad enough. and you mustn t take a cup of tea and a biscuit in place of a regular dinner because dinner happen to be a trouble. 
you re make fun of me. 
i never be more in earnest in my life. oh my love my love hasn t it dawn on you yet what you be to me. here s the whole earth in a conspiracy to give you a chill or run over you or drench you to the skin or cheat you out of your money or let you die of overwork and underfeeding and i haven t the mere right to look after you. why i don t even know if you have sense enough to put on warm thing when the weather s cold. 
dick you re the most awful boy to talk to really. how do you suppose i manage when you be away. 
i wasn t here and i didn t know. but now i m back i d give everything i have for the right of tell you to come in out of the rain. 
your success too. 
this time it cost dick a severe struggle to refrain from bad word. 
a mr. jennett use to say you re a trial maisie. you ve be cooped up in the school too long and you think every one be look at you. there aren t twelve hundred people in the world who understand picture. the others pretend and don t care. remember i ve see twelve hundred men dead in toadstool bed. it s only the voice of the tiny little fraction of people that make success. the real world doesn t care a tinker s doesn t care a bite. for aught you or i know every man in the world may be argue with a maisie of his own. 
poor maisie. 
poor dick i think. do you believe while he s fight for what s dear than his life he want to look at a picture. and even if he do and if all the world do and a thousand million people rise up and shout hymn to my honour and glory would that make up to me for the knowledge that you be out shop in the edgware road on a rainy day without an umbrella. now we ll go to the station. 
but you say on the beach persist maisie with a certain fear. 
dick groan aloud. yes i know what i say. my work be everything i have or be or hope to be to me and i believe i ve learn the law that govern it. but i ve some linger sense of fun leave though you ve nearly knock it out of me. i can just see that it isn t everything to all the world. do what i say and not what i do. 
maisie be careful not to reopen debatable matter and they return to london joyously. the terminus stop dick in the midst of an eloquent harangue on the beauty of exercise. he would buy maisie a horse such a horse a never yet bow head to bite would stable it with a companion some twenty mile from london and maisie solely for her health s sake should ride with him twice or thrice a week. 
that s absurd say she. it wouldn t be proper. 
now who in all london tonight would have sufficient interest or audacity to call u two to account for anything we choose to do. 
maisie look at the lamp the fog and the hideous turmoil. dick be right. but horseflesh do not make for art a she understand it. 
you re very nice sometimes but you re very foolish more time. i m not go to let you give me horse or take you out of your way tonight. i ll go home by myself. only i want you to promise me something. you win t think any more about that extra threepence will you. remember you ve be pay. and i win t allow you to be spiteful and do bad work for a little thing like that. you can be so big that you mustn t be tiny. 
this be turn the table with a vengeance. there remain only to put maisie into her hansom. 
goodbye she say simply. you ll come on sunday. it ha be a beautiful day dick. why can t it be like this always. 
because love s like line work. you must go forward or backward. you can t stand still. by the way go on with your line work. good night and for my for my sake take care of yourself. 
he turn to walk home meditate. the day have bring him nothing that he hop for but surely this be worth many day it have bring him near to maisie. the end be only a question of time now and the prize well worth the wait. by instinct once more he turn to the river. 
and she understand at once he say look at the water. she find out my pet beset sin on the spot and pay it off. my god how she understand. and she say i be good than she be. good than she be. he laugh at the absurdity of the notion. i wonder if girl guess at one half a man s life. they can t or they wouldn t marry u. he take her gift out of his pocket and consider it in the light of a miracle and a pledge of the comprehension that one day would lead to perfect happiness. meantime maisie be alone in london with none to save her from danger. and the pack wilderness be very full of danger. 
dick make his prayer to fate disjointedly after the manner of the heathen a he throw the piece of silver into the river. if any evil be to befal let him bear the burden and let maisie go unscathed since the threepenny piece be dear to him of all his possession. it be a small coin in itself but maisie have give it and the thames hold it and surely the fate would be bribe for this once. 
the drown of the coin seem to cut him free from think of maisie for the moment. he take himself off the bridge and go whistle to his chamber with a strong yearn for some man talk and tobacco after his first experience of an entire day spend in the society of a woman. there be a strong desire at his heart when there rise before him an unsolicited vision of the barralong dip deep and sail free for the southern cross. 
chapter viii. 
and these two a i have tell you be the friend of hiawatha chibiabos the musician and the very strong man kwasind. hiawatha. 
torpenhow be page the last sheet of some manuscript while the nilghai who have come for chess and remain to talk tactic be read through the first part comment scornfully the while. 
it s picturesque enough and it s sketchy say he. but a a serious consideration of affair in eastern europe it s not worth much. 
it s off my hand at any rate. thirty seven thirty eight thirty nine slip altogether aren t there. that should make between eleven and twelve page of valuable misinformation. heigh ho. torpenhow shuffle the write together and hum. 
young lamb to sell young lamb to sell if i d a much money a i could tell i never would cry young lamb to sell. 
dick enter self conscious and a little defiant but in the best of temper with all the world. 
back at last. say torpenhow. 
more or le. what have you be do. 
work. dickie you behave a though the bank of england be behind you. here s sunday monday and tuesday go and you haven t do a line. it s scandalous. 
the notion come and go my child they come and go like our baccy he answer fill his pipe. moreover he stoop to thrust a spill into the grate apollo doe not always stretch his oh confound your clumsy jest nilghai. 
this be not the place to preach the theory of direct inspiration say the nilghai return torpenhow s large and workmanlike bellow to their nail on the wall. we believe in cobbler wax. la. where you sit down. 
if you weren t so big and fat say dick look round for a weapon i d. 
no skylark in my room. you two smash half my furniture last time you throw the cushion about. you might have the decency to say how d you do. to binkie. look at him. 
binkie have jump down from the sofa and be fawn round dick s knee and scratch at his boot. 
dear man. say dick snatch him up and kiss him on the black patch above his right eye. do ums be binks. do that ugly nilghai turn you off the sofa. bite him mr. binkie. he pitch him on the nilghai s stomach a the big man lay at ease and binkie pretend to destroy the nilghai inch by inch till a sofa cushion extinguish him and pant he stick out his tongue at the company. 
the binkie boy go for a walk this morning before you be up torp. i saw him make love to the butch at the corner when the shutter be be take down just a if he hadn t enough to eat in his own proper house say dick. 
binks be that a true bill. say torpenhow severely. the little dog retreat under the sofa cushion and show by the fat white back of him that he really have no further interest in the discussion. 
strike me that another disreputable dog go for a walk too say the nilghai. what make you get up so early. torp say you might be buy a horse. 
he know it would need three of u for a serious business like that. no i felt lonesome and unhappy so i go out to look at the sea and watch the pretty ship go by. 
where do you go. 
somewhere on the channel. progly or snigly or some water place be it name. i ve forget. but it be only two hour run from london and the ship go by. 
do you see anything you know. 
only the barralong outwards to australia and an odessa grain boat load down by the head. it be a thick day but the sea smelt good. 
wherefore put on one s best trouser to see the barralong. say torpenhow point. 
because i ve nothing except these thing and my paint dud. besides i want to do honour to the sea. 
do she make you feel restless. ask the nilghai keenly. 
crazy. don t speak of it. i m sorry i go. 
torpenhow and the nilghai exchange a look a dick stoop busy himself among the former s boot and tree. 
these will do he say at last. i can t say i think much of your taste in slipper but the fit s the thing. he slip his foot into a pair of sock like sambhur skin foot covering find a long chair and lay at length. 
they re my own pet pair torpenhow say. i be just go to put them on myself. 
all your reprehensible selfishness. just because you see me happy for a minute you want to worry me and stir me up. find another pair. 
good for you that dick can t wear your clothe torp. you two live communistically say the nilghai. 
dick never ha anything that i can wear. he s only useful to sponge upon. 
confound you have you be rummage round among my clothe then. say dick. i put a sovereign in the tobacco jar yesterday. how do you expect a man to keep his account properly if you. 
here the nilghai begin to laugh and torpenhow join him. 
hide a sovereign yesterday. you re no sort of financier. you lend me a five about a month back. do you remember. torpenhow say. 
yes of course. 
do you remember that i pay it you ten day late and you put it at the bottom of the tobacco. 
by jove do i. i think it be in one of my colour box. 
you think. about a week ago i go into your studio to get some baccy and find it. 
what do you do with it. 
take the nilghai to a theatre and feed him. 
you couldn t fee the nilghai under twice the money not though you give him army beef. well i suppose i should have find it out sooner or late. what be there to laugh at. 
you re a most amaze cuckoo in many direction say the nilghai still chuckle over the think of the dinner. never mind. we have both be work very hard and it be your unearned increment we spend and a you re only a loafer it didn t matter. 
that s pleasant from the man who be burst with my meat too. i ll get that dinner back one of these day. suppose we go to a theatre now. 
put our boot on and dress and wash. the nilghai speak very lazily. 
i withdraw the motion. 
suppose just for a change a a startle variety you know we that be to say we get our charcoal and our canvas and go on with our work. 
torpenhow speak pointedly but dick only wriggle his toe inside the soft leather moccasin. 
what a one ideaed clucker that be. if i have any unfinished figure on hand i haven t any model. if i have my model i haven t any spray and i never leave charcoal unfixed overnight. and if i have my spray and twenty photograph of background i couldn t do anything tonight. i don t feel that way. 
binkie dog he s a lazy hog isn t he. say the nilghai. 
very good i will do some work say dick rise swiftly. i ll fetch the nungapunga book and we ll add another picture to the nilghai saga. 
aren t you worry him a little too much. ask the nilghai when dick have leave the room. 
perhaps but i know what he can turn out if he like. it make me savage to hear him praise for past work when i know what he ought to do. you and i be arrange for. 
by kismet and our own power more s the pity. i have dream of a good deal. 
so have i but we know our limitation now. i m dash if i know what dick s may be when he give himself to his work. that s what make me so keen about him. 
and when all s say and do you will be put aside quite rightly for a female girl. 
i wonder. where do you think he ha be today. 
to the sea. didn t you see the look in his eye when he talk about her. he s a restless a a swallow in autumn. 
yes. but do he go alone. 
i don t know and i don t care but he ha the beginning of the go fever upon him. he want to up stake and move out. there s no mistake the sign. whatever he may have say before he ha the call upon him now. 
it might be his salvation torpenhow say. 
perhaps if you care to take the responsibility of be a saviour. 
dick return with the big clasp sketch book that the nilghai know well and do not love too much. in it dick have draw all manner of move incident experience by himself or relate to him by the others of all the four corner of the earth. but the wide range of the nilghai s body and life attract him most. when truth fail he fell back on fiction of the wild and represent incident in the nilghai s career that be unseemly his marriage with many african princess his shameless betrayal for arab wife of an army corp to the mahdi his tattooment by skilled operator in burmah his interview. and his fear. with the yellow headsman in the blood stain execution grind of canton and finally the passing of his spirit into the body of whale elephant and toucan. torpenhow from time to time have add rhyme description and the whole be a curious piece of art because dick decide have regard to the name of the book which be interpret mean naked that it would be wrong to draw the nilghai with any clothe on under any circumstance. consequently the last sketch represent that much endure man call on the war office to press his claim to the egyptian medal be hardly delicate. he settle himself comfortably on torpenhow s table and turn over the page. 
what a fortune you would have be to blake nilghai. he say. there s a succulent pinkness about some of these sketch that s more than life like. the nilghai surround while bath by the mahdieh that be found on fact eh. 
it be very nearly my last bath you irreverent dauber. ha binkie come into the saga yet. 
no. the binkie boy hasn t do anything except eat and kill cat. let s see. here you be a a stain glass saint in a church. deuced decorative line about your anatomy. you ought to be grateful for be hand down to posterity in this way. fifty year hence you ll exist in rare and curious facsimile at ten guinea each. what shall i try this time. the domestic life of the nilghai. 
hasn t get any. 
the undomestic life of the nilghai then. of course. mass meet of his wife in trafalgar square. that s it. they come from the end of the earth to attend nilghai s wed to an english bride. this shall be an epic. it s a sweet material to work with. 
it s a scandalous waste of time say torpenhow. 
don t worry. it keep one s hand in specially when you begin without the pencil. he set to work rapidly. that s nelson s column. presently the nilghai will appear shin up it. 
give him some clothe this time. 
certainly a veil and an orange wreath because he s be marry. 
gad that s clever enough. say torpenhow over his shoulder a dick bring out of the paper with three twirl of the brush a very fat back and labour shoulder press against stone. 
just imagine dick continue if we could publish a few of these dear little thing every time the nilghai subsidise a man who can write to give the public an honest opinion of my picture. 
well you ll admit i always tell you when i have do anything of that kind. i know i can t hammer you a you ought to be hammer so i give the job to another. young maclagan for instance. 
no o one half minute old man. stick your hand out against the dark of the wall paper you only burble and call me name. that leave shoulder s out of draw. i must literally throw a veil over that. where s my pen knife. well what about maclagan. 
i only give him his rid order to to lambast you on general principle for not produce work that will last. 
whereupon that young fool dick throw back his head and shut one eye a he shift the page under his hand be leave alone with an ink pot and what he conceive be his own notion go and spill them both over me in the paper. you might have engage a grow man for the business nilghai. how do you think the bridal veil look now torp. 
how the deuce do three dab and two scratch make the stuff stand away from the body a it doe. say torpenhow to whom dick s method be always new. 
it just depend on where you put em. if maclagan have know that much about his business he might have do good. 
why don t you put the damn dab into something that will stay then. insist the nilghai who have really take considerable trouble in hire for dick s benefit the pen of a young gentleman who devote most of his wake hour to an anxious consideration of the aim and end of art which he write be one and indivisible. 
wait a minute till i see how i be go to manage my procession of wife. you seem to have marry extensively and i must rough em in with the pencil medes parthian edomites. now set aside the weakness and the wickedness and and the fat headedness of deliberately try to do work that will live a they call it i m content with the knowledge that i ve do my best up to date and i shan t do anything like it again for some hour at least probably year. most probably never. 
what. any stuff you have in stock your best work. say torpenhow. 
anything you ve sell. say the nilghai. 
oh no. it isn t here and it isn t sell. good than that it can t be sell and i don t think any one know where it be. i m sure i don t. and yet more and more wife on the north side of the square. observe the virtuous horror of the lion. 
you may a well explain say torpenhow and dick lift his head from the paper. 
the sea remind me of it he say slowly. i wish it hadn t. it weigh some few thousand ton unless you cut it out with a cold chisel. 
don t be an idiot. you can t pose with u here say the nilghai. 
there s no pose in the matter at all. it s a fact. i be loaf from lima to auckland in a big old condemn passenger ship turn into a cargo boat and own by a second hand italian firm. she be a crazy basket. we be cut down to fifteen ton of coal a day and we think ourselves lucky when we kick seven knot an hour out of her. then we use to stop and let the bearing cool down and wonder whether the crack in the shaft be spread. 
be you a steward or a stoker in those day. 
i be flush for the time be so i be a passenger or else i should have be a steward i think say dick with perfect gravity return to the procession of angry wife. i be the only other passenger from lima and the ship be half empty and full of rat and cockroach and scorpion. 
but what ha this to do with the picture. 
wait a minute. she have be in the china passenger trade and her low deck have bunk for two thousand pigtail. those be all take down and she be empty up to her nose and the light come through the port hole most annoy light to work in till you get use to them. i hadn t anything to do for week. the ship s chart be in piece and our skipper daren t run south for fear of catch a storm. so he do his best to knock all the society island out of the water one by one and i go into the low deck and do my picture on the port side a far forward in her a i could go. there be some brown paint and some green paint that they use for the boat and some black paint for ironwork and that be all i have. 
the passenger must have think you mad. 
there be only one and it be a woman. but it give me the notion of my picture. 
what be she like. say torpenhow. 
she be a sort of negroid jewess cuban. with moral to match. she couldn t read or write and she didn t want to but she use to come down and watch me paint and the skipper didn t like it because he be pay her passage and have to be on the bridge occasionally. 
i see. that must have be cheerful. 
it be the best time i ever have. to begin with we didn t know whether we should go up or go down any minute when there be a sea on. and when it be calm it be paradise. and the woman use to mix the paint and talk break english and the skipper use to steal down every few minute to the low deck because he say he be afraid of fire. so you see we could never tell when we might be catch and i have a splendid notion to work out in only three key of colour. 
what be the notion. 
two line in poe. 
neither the angel in heaven above nor the demon down under the sea can ever dissever my soul from the soul of the beautiful annabel lee. 
it come out of the sea all by itself. i draw that fight fight out in green water over the naked choke soul and the woman serve a the model for the devil and the angel both sea devil and sea angel and the soul half drown between them. it doesn t sound much but when there be a good light on the low deck it look very fine and creepy. it be seven by fourteen foot all do in shift light for shift light. 
do the woman inspire you much. say torpenhow. 
she and the sea between them immensely. there be a heap of bad draw in that picture. i remember i go out of my way to foreshorten for sheer delight of do it and i foreshorten damnably but for all that it s the best thing i ve ever do. and now i suppose the ship s break up or go down. whew. what a time that be. 
what happen after all. 
it all end. they be load her with wool when i leave the ship but even the stevedore keep the picture clear to the last. the eye of the demon scar them i honestly believe. 
and the woman. 
she be scar too when it be finish. she use to cross herself before she go down to look at it. just three colour and no chance of get any more and the sea outside and unlimited love make inside and the fear of death atop of everything else o lord. he have cease to look at the sketch but be star straight in front of him across the room. 
why don t you try something of the same kind now. say the nilghai. 
because those thing come not by fast and prayer. when i find a cargo boat and a jewess cuban and another notion and the same old life i may. 
you win t find them here say the nilghai. 
no i shall not. dick shut the sketch book with a bang. this room s a hot a an oven. open the window some one. 
he lean into the darkness watch the great darkness of london below him. the chamber stand much high than the other house command a hundred chimney crook cowl that look like sit cat a they swing round and other uncouth brick and zinc mystery support by iron stanchion and clamp by piece. northward the light of piccadilly circus and leicester square throw a copper colour glare above the black roof and southward by all the orderly light of the thames. a train roll out across one of the railway bridge and it thunder drown for a minute the dull roar of the street. the nilghai look at his watch and say shortly that s the paris night mail. you can book from here to st. petersburg if you choose. 
dick cram head and shoulder out of the window and look across the river. torpenhow come to his side while the nilghai pass over quietly to the piano and open it. binkie make himself a large a possible spread out upon the sofa with the air of one who be not to be lightly disturb. 
well say the nilghai to the two pair of shoulder have you never see this place before. 
a steam tug on the river hoot a she tow her barge to wharf. then the boom of the traffic come into the room. torpenhow nudge dick. 
good place to bank in bad place to bunk in dickie isn t it. 
dick s chin be in his hand a he answer in the word of a general not without fame still look out on the darkness my god what a city to loot. 
binkie find the night air tickle his whisker and sneeze plaintively. 
we shall give the binkie dog a cold say torpenhow. come in and they withdraw their head. you ll be bury in kensal green dick one of these day if it isn t close by the time you want to go there bury within two foot of some one else his wife and his family. 
allah forbid. i shall get away before that time come. give a man room to stretch his leg mr. binkie. dick fling himself down on the sofa and tweak binkie s velvet ear yawn heavily the while. 
you ll find that wardrobe case very much out of tune torpenhow say to the nilghai. it s never touch except by you. 
a piece of gross extravagance dick grunt. the nilghai only come when i m out. 
that s because you re always out. howl nilghai and let him hear. 
the life of the nilghai be fraud and slaughter his writing be water dickens and water. but the voice of the nilghai raise on high make even the mahdieh glad to die. 
dick quote from torpenhow s letterpress in the nungapunga book. 
how do they call moose in canada nilghai. 
the man laugh. sing be his one polite accomplishment a many press tent in far off land have know. 
what shall i sing. say he turn in the chair. 
moll roe in the morning say torpenhow at a venture. 
no say dick sharply and the nilghai open his eye. the old chanty whereof he among a very few possess all the word be not a pretty one but dick have hear it many time before without wince. without prelude he launch into that stately tune that call together and trouble the heart of the gipsy of the sea. 
farewell and adieu to you spanish lady farewell and adieu to you lady of spain. 
dick turn uneasily on the sofa for he could hear the bow of the barralong crash into the green sea on her way to the southern cross. 
then come the chorus. 
we ll rant and we ll roar like true british sailor we ll rant and we ll roar across the salt sea until we take sounding in the channel of old england from ushant to scilly ti forty five league. 
thirty five thirty five say dick petulantly. don t tamper with holy writ. go on nilghai. 
the first land we make it be call the deadman. 
and they sing to the end very vigourously. 
that would be a good song if her head be turn the other way to the ushant light for instance say the nilghai. 
fling his arm about like a mad windmill say torpenhow. give u something else nilghai. you re in fine fog horn form tonight. 
give u the gang pilot. you sing that in the square the night before el maghrib. by the way i wonder how many of the chorus be alive tonight say dick. 
torpenhow consider for a minute. by jove. i believe only you and i. raynor vicery and deenes all dead. vincent catch smallpox in cairo carry it here and die of it. yes only you and i and the nilghai. 
umph. and yet the men here who ve do their work in a well warm studio all their life with a policeman at each corner say that i charge too much for my picture. 
they be buy your work not your insurance policy dear child say the nilghai. 
i gamble with one to get at the other. don t preach. go on with the pilot. where in the world do you get that song. 
on a tombstone say the nilghai. on a tombstone in a distant land. i make it an accompaniment with heap of base chord. 
oh vanity. begin. and the nilghai begin. 
i have slip my cable messmate i m drift down with the tide i have my sail order while yet at anchor ride. and never on fair june morning have i put out to sea with clear conscience or good hope or a heart more light and free. 
shoulder to shoulder joe my boy into the crowd like a wedge strike with the hanger messmate but do not cut with the edge. cry charnock scatter the faggot double that brahmin in two the tall pale widow for me joe the little brown girl for you. 
young joe. you re near sixty. why be your hide so dark. katie ha soft fair blue eye who blacken yours. why hark. 
they be all sing now dick with the roar of the wind of the open sea about his ear a the deep bass voice let itself go. 
the morning gun ho steady. the arquebus to me. i ha sound the dutch high admiral s heart a my lead doth sound the sea. 
sound sound the gang float down with the tide moore me close to charnock next to my nut brown bride. my bless to kate at fairlight holwell my thank to you. steady. we steer for heaven through sand drift cold and blue. 
now what be there in that nonsense to make a man restless. say dick haul binkie from his foot to his chest. 
it depend on the man say torpenhow. 
the man who ha be down to look at the sea say the nilghai. 
i didn t know she be go to upset me in this fashion. 
that s what men say when they go to say good bye to a woman. it s more easy though to get rid of three woman than a piece of one s life and surround. 
but a woman can be begin dick unguardedly. 
a piece of one s life continue torpenhow. no she can t. his face darken for a moment. she say she want to sympathise with you and help you in your work and everything else that clearly a man must do for himself. then she send round five note a day to ask why the dickens you haven t be waste your time with her. 
don t generalise say the nilghai. by the time you arrive at five note a day you must have go through a good deal and behave accordingly. shouldn t begin these thing my son. 
i shouldn t have go down to the sea say dick just a little anxious to change the conversation. and you shouldn t have sing. 
the sea isn t send you five note a day say the nilghai. 
no but i m fatally compromise. she s an endure old hag and i m sorry i ever meet her. why wasn t i bear and breed and dead in a three pair back. 
hear him blaspheme his first love. why in the world shouldn t you listen to her. say torpenhow. 
before dick could reply the nilghai lift up his voice with a shout that shake the window in the men of the sea that begin a all know the sea be a wicked old woman and after wad through eight line whose imagery be truthful end in a refrain slow a the clack of a capstan when the boat come unwillingly up to the bar where the men sweat and tramp in the shingle. 
ye that bore u o restore u. she be kind than ye. for the call be on our heart string. say the men of the sea. 
the nilghai sing that verse twice with simple cunning intend that dick should hear. but dick be wait for the farewell of the men to their wife. 
ye that love u can ye move u. she be dear than ye. and your sleep will be the sweet say the men of the sea. 
the rough word beat like the blow of the wave on the bow of the rickety boat from lima in the day when dick be mix paint make love draw devil and angel in the half dark and wonder whether the next minute would put the italian captain s knife between his shoulder blade. and the go fever which be more real than many doctor disease wake and rag urge him who love maisie beyond anything in the world to go away and taste the old hot unregenerate life again to scuffle swear gamble and love light love with his fellow. to take ship and know the sea once more and by her beget picture. to talk to binat among the sand of port say while yellow tina mix the drink. to hear the crackle of musketry and see the smoke roll outward thin and thicken again till the shin black face come through and in that hell every man be strictly responsible for his own head and his own alone and strike with an unfettered arm. it be impossible utterly impossible but. 
oh our father in the churchyard she be old than ye and our graf will be the green say the men of the sea. 
what be there to hind. say torpenhow in the long hush that follow the song. 
you say a little time since that you wouldn t come for a walk round the world torp. 
that be month ago and i only object to your make money for travel expense. you ve shoot your bolt here and it ha go home. go away and do some work and see some thing. 
get some of the fat off you. you re disgracefully out of condition say the nilghai make a plunge from the chair and grasp a handful of dick generally over the right rib. soft a putty pure tallow bear of over feed. train it off dickie. 
we re all equally gross nilghai. next time you have to take the field you ll sit down wink your eye gasp and die in a fit. 
never mind. you go away on a ship. go to lima again or to brazil. there s always trouble in south america. 
do you suppose i want to be tell where to go. great heaven the only difficulty be to know where i m to stop. but i shall stay here a i tell you before. 
then you ll be bury in kensal green and turn into adipocere with the others say torpenhow. be you think of commission in hand. pay forfeit and go. you ve money enough to travel a a king if you please. 
you ve the grisly notion of amusement torp. i think i see myself ship first class on a six thousand ton hotel and ask the third engineer what make the engine go round and whether it isn t very warm in the stokehold. ho. ho. i should ship a a loafer if ever i ship at all which i m not go to do. i shall compromise and go for a small trip to begin with. 
that s something at any rate. where will you go. say torpenhow. it would do you all the good in the world old man. 
the nilghai saw the twinkle in dick s eye and refrain from speech. 
i shall go in the first place to rathray s stable where i shall hire one horse and take him very carefully a far a richmond hill. then i shall walk him back again in case he should accidentally burst into a lather and make rathray angry. i shall do that tomorrow for the sake of air and exercise. 
bah. dick have barely time to throw up his arm and ward off the cushion that the disgust torpenhow heave at his head. 
air and exercise indeed say the nilghai sit down heavily on dick. 
let s give him a little of both. get the bellow torp. 
at this point the conference break up in disorder because dick would not open his mouth till the nilghai hold his nose fast and there be some trouble in force the nozzle of the bellow between his teeth. and even when it be there he weakly try to puff against the force of the blast and his cheek blow up with a great explosion. and the enemy become helpless with laughter he so beat them over the head with a soft sofa cushion that become unsewn and distribute it feather and binkie interfere in torpenhow s interest be bundle into the half empty bag and advise to scratch his way out which he do after a while travel rapidly up and down the floor in the shape of an agitate green haggis and when he come out look for satisfaction the three pillar of his world be pick feather out of their hair. 
a prophet ha no honour in his own country say dick ruefully dust his knee. this filthy fluff will never brush off my leg. 
it be all for your own good say the nilghai. nothing like air and exercise. 
all for your good say torpenhow not in the least with reference to past clown. it would let you focus thing at their proper worth and prevent your become slack in this hothouse of a town. indeed it would old man. i shouldn t have speak if i hadn t think so. only you make a joke of everything. 
before god i do no such thing say dick quickly and earnestly. you don t know me if you think that. 
i don t think it say the nilghai. 
how can fellow like ourselves who know what life and death really mean dare to make a joke of anything. i know we pretend it to save ourselves from break down or go to the other extreme. can t i see old man how you re always anxious about me and try to advise me to make my work good. do you suppose i don t think about that myself. but you can t help me you can t help me not even you. i must play my own hand alone in my own way. 
hear hear from the nilghai. 
what s the one thing in the nilghai saga that i ve never draw in the nungapunga book. dick continue to torpenhow who be a little astonish at the outburst. 
now there be one blank page in the book give over to the sketch that dick have not draw of the crown exploit in the nilghai s life. when that man be young and forget that his body and bone belong to the paper that employ him have ride over sunburn slippery grass in the rear of bredow s brigade on the day that the trooper fling themselves at caurobert s artillery and for aught they know twenty battalion in front to save the batter th german infantry to give time to decide the fate of vionville and to learn ere their remnant come back to flavigay that cavalry can attack and crumple and break unshaken infantry. whenever he be incline to think over a life that might have be good an income that might have be large and a soul that might have be considerably clean the nilghai would comfort himself with the think i ride with bredow s brigade at vionville and take heart for any less battle the next day might bring. 
i know he say very gravely. i be always glad that you leave it out. 
i leave it out because nilghai teach me what the germany army learn then and what schmidt teach their cavalry. i don t know german. 
what be it. take care of the time and the dress will take care of itself. i must ride my own line to my own beat old man. 
tempe ist richtung. you ve learn your lesson well say the nilghai. 
he must go alone. he speak truth torp. 
maybe i m a wrong a i can be hideously wrong. i must find that out for myself a i have to think thing out for myself but i daren t turn my head to dress by the next man. it hurt me a great deal more than you know not to be able to go but i cannot that s all. i must do my own work and live my own life in my own way because i m responsible for both. 
only don t think i frivol about it torp. i have my own match and sulphur and i ll make my own hell thank. 
there be an uncomfortable pause. then torpenhow say blandly what do the governor of north carolina say to the governor of south carolina. 
excellent notion. it be a long time between drink. there be the making of a very fine prig in you dick say the nilghai. 
i ve liberate my mind estimable binkie with the feather in his mouth. dick pick up the still indignant one and shake him tenderly. you re tie up in a sack and make to run about blind binkie wee without any reason and it ha hurt your little feeling. never mind. sic volo sic jubeo stet pro ratione voluntas and don t sneeze in my eye because i talk latin. good night. 
he go out of the room. 
that s distinctly one for you say the nilghai. i tell you it be hopeless to meddle with him. he s not please. 
he d swear at me if he weren t. i can t make it out. he ha the go fever upon him and he win t go. i only hope that he mayn t have to go some day when he doesn t want to say torpenhow. * * * * * *. 
in his own room dick be settle a question with himself and the question be whether all the world and all that be therein and a burn desire to exploit both be worth one threepenny piece throw into the thames. 
it come of see the sea and i m a cur to think about it he decide. after all the honeymoon will be that tour with reservation. only. only i didn t realise that the sea be so strong. i didn t feel it so much when i be with maisie. these damnable song do it. he s begin again. 
but it be only herrick s nightpiece to julia that the nilghai sing and before it be end dick reappear on the threshold not altogether clothe indeed but in his right mind thirsty and at peace. 
the mood have come and go with the rise and the fall of the tide by fort keel. 
chapter ix. 
if i have take the common clay and work it cunningly in the shape of a god that be digged a clod the great honour to me. 
if thou hast take the common clay and thy hand be not free from the taint of the soil thou hast make thy spoil the great shame to thee. the two potter. 
he do no work of any kind for the rest of the week. then come another sunday. he dread and long for the day always but since the red haired girl have sketch him there be rather more dread than desire in his mind. 
he find that maisie have entirely neglect his suggestion about line work. she have go off at score file with some absurd notion for a fancy head. it cost dick something to command his temper. 
what s the good of suggest anything. he say pointedly. 
ah but this will be a picture a real picture. and i know that kami will let me send it to the salon. you don t mind do you. 
i suppose not. but you win t have time for the salon. 
maisie hesitate a little. she even felt uncomfortable. 
we re go over to france a month sooner because of it. i shall get the idea sketch out here and work it up at kami s. 
dick s heart stand still and he come very near to be disgust with his queen who could do no wrong. just when i think i have make some headway she go off chase butterfly. it s too madden. 
there be no possibility of argue for the red haired girl be in the studio. dick could only look unutterable reproach. 
i m sorry he say and i think you make a mistake. but what s the idea of your new picture. 
i take it from a book. 
that s bad to begin with. book aren t the place for picture. and. 
it s this say the red haired girl behind him. i be read it to maisie the other day from the city of dreadful night. d you know the book. 
a little. i be sorry i speak. there be picture in it. what ha take her fancy. 
the description of the melancolia. 
her fold wing a of a mighty eagle but all too impotent to lift the regal robustness of her earth bear strength and pride. 
and here again. maisie get the tea dear. 
the forehead charge with baleful thought and dream the household bunch of key the housewife s gown voluminous indent and yet rigid a though a shell of burnish metal frigid her foot thick shoe to tread all weakness down. 
there be no attempt to conceal the scorn of the lazy voice. dick wince. 
but that ha be do already by an obscure artist by the name of durer say he. how doe the poem run. 
three century and threescore year ago with phantasy of his peculiar think. 
you might a well try to rewrite hamlet. it will be a waste of time. 
no it win t say maisie put down the teacup with a clatter to reassure herself. and i mean to do it. can t you see what a beautiful thing it would make. 
how in perdition can one do work when one hasn t have the proper train. any fool can get a notion. it need train to drive the thing through train and conviction. not rush after the first fancy. dick speak between his teeth. 
you don t understand say maisie. i think i can do it. 
again the voice of the girl behind him. 
baffle and beat back she work on still. weary and sick of soul she work the more. 
sustain by her indomitable will the hand shall fashion and the brain shall pore and all her sorrow shall be turn to labour. 
i fancy maisie mean to embody herself in the picture. 
sit on a throne of reject picture. no i shan t dear. the notion in itself ha fascinate me. of course you don t care for fancy head dick. i don t think you could do them. you like blood and bone. 
that s a direct challenge. if you can do a melancolia that isn t merely a sorrowful female head i can do a good one. and i will too. what d you know about melacolias. dick firmly believe that he be even then taste three quarter of all the sorrow in the world. 
she be a woman say maisie and she suffer a great deal till she could suffer no more. then she begin to laugh at it all and then i paint her and send her to the salon. 
the red haired girl rise up and leave the room laugh. 
dick look at maisie humbly and hopelessly. 
never mind about the picture he say. be you really go back to kami s for a month before your time. 
i must if i want to get the picture do. 
and that s all you want. 
of course. don t be stupid dick. 
you haven t the power. you have only the idea the idea and the little cheap impulse. how you could have keep at your work for ten year steadily be a mystery to me. so you be really go a month before you need. 
i must do my work. 
your work bah. no i didn t mean that. it s all right dear. of course you must do your work and i think i ll say goodbye for this week. 
win t you even stay for tea. no thank you. have i your leave to go dear. there s nothing more you particularly want me to do and the line work doesn t matter. 
i wish you could stay and then we could talk over my picture. if only one single picture s a success it draw attention to all the others. i know some of my work be good if only people could see. and you needn t have be so rude about it. 
i m sorry. we ll talk the melancolia over some one of the other sunday. 
there be four more yes one two three four before you go. goodbye maisie. 
maisie stand by the studio window think till the red haired girl return a little white at the corner of her lip. 
dick s go off say maisie. just when i want to talk about the picture. isn t it selfish of him. 
her companion open her lip a if to speak shut them again and go on read the city of dreadful night. 
dick be in the park walk round and round a tree that he have choose a his confidante for many sunday past. he be swear audibly and when he find that the infirmity of the english tongue hem in his rage he seek consolation in arabic which be expressly design for the use of the afflict. he be not please with the reward of his patient service. nor be he please with himself. and it be long before he arrive at the proposition that the queen could do no wrong. 
it s a lose game he say. i m worth nothing when a whim of hers be in question. but in a lose game at port say we use to double the stake and go on. she do a melancolia. she hasn t the power or the insight or the train. only the desire. she s curse with the curse of reuben. she win t do line work because it mean real work. and yet she s strong than i be. i ll make her understand that i can beat her on her own melancolia. even then she wouldn t care. she say i can only do blood and bone. i don t believe she ha blood in her vein. all the same i lover her. and i must go on love her. and if i can humble her inordinate vanity i will. i ll do a melancolia that shall be something like a melancolia the melancolia that transcend all wit. i ll do it at once con bless her. 
he discover that the notion would not come to order and that he could not free his mind for an hour from the think of maisie s departure. he take very small interest in her rough study for the melancolia when she show them next week. the sunday be race past and the time be at hand when all the church bell in london could not ring maisie back to him. once or twice he say something to binkie about hermaphroditic futility but the little dog receive so many confidence both from torpenhow and dick that he do not trouble his tulip ear to listen. 
dick be permit to see the girl off. they be go by the dover night boat. and they hop to return in august. it be then february and dick felt that he be be hardly use. maisie be so busy strip the small house across the park and pack her canvas that she have not time for think. dick go down to dover and waste a day there fret over a wonderful possibility. would maisie at the very last allow him one small kiss. he reflect that he might capture her by the strong arm a he have seem woman capture in the southern soudan and lead her away. but maisie would never be lead. she would turn her gray eye upon him and say dick how selfish you be. then his courage would fail him. it would be good after all to beg for that kiss. 
maisie look more than usually kissable a she step from the night mail on to the windy pier in a gray waterproof and a little gray cloth travel cap. the red haired girl be not so lovely. her green eye be hollow and her lip be dry. dick saw the trunk aboard and go to maisie s side in the darkness under the bridge. the mail bag be thunder into the forehold and the red haired girl be watch them. 
you ll have a rough passage tonight say dick. it s blow outside. i suppose i may come over and see you if i m good. 
you mustn t. i shall be busy. at least if i want you i ll send for you. but i shall write from vitry sur marne. i shall have heap of thing to consult you about. oh dick you have be so good to me. so good to me. 
thank you for that dear. it hasn t make any difference ha it. 
i can t tell a fib. it hasn t in that way. but don t think i m not grateful. 
damn the gratitude. say dick huskily to the paddle box. 
what s the use of worry. you know i should ruin your life and you d ruin mine a thing be now. you remember what you say when you be so angry that day in the park. one of u ha to be break. can t you wait till that day come. 
no love. i want you unbroken all to myself. 
maisie shake her head. my poor dick what can i say. 
don t say anything. give me a kiss. only one kiss maisie. i ll swear i win t take any more. you might a well and then i can be sure you re grateful. 
maisie put her cheek forward and dick take his reward in the darkness. 
it be only one kiss but since there be no time limit specify it be a long one. maisie wrench herself free angrily and dick stand abash and tingle from head to toe. 
goodbye darling. i didn t mean to scare you. i m sorry. only keep well and do good work specially the melancolia. i m go to do one too. remember me to kami and be careful what you drink. country drink water be bad everywhere but it s bad in france. write to me if you want anything and good bye. say good bye to the whatever you call um girl and can t i have another kiss. no. you re quite right. goodbye. 
a shout tell him that it be not seemly to charge of the mail bag incline. he reach the pier a the steamer begin to move off and he follow her with his heart. 
and there s nothing nothing in the wide world to keep u apart except her obstinacy. these calais night boat be much too small. i ll get torp to write to the paper about it. she s begin to pitch already. 
maisie stand where dick have leave her till she hear a little gasp cough at her elbow. the red haired girl s eye be alight with cold flame. 
he kiss you. she say. how could you let him when he wasn t anything to you. how dare you to take a kiss from him. oh maisie let s go to the lady cabin. i m sick deadly sick. 
we aren t into open water yet. go down dear and i ll stay here. i don t like the smell of the engine. poor dick. he deserve one only one. but i didn t think he d frighten me so. 
dick return to town next day just in time for lunch for which he have telegraph. to his disgust there be only empty plate in the studio. 
he lift up his voice like the bear in the fairy tale and torpenhow enter look guilty. 
h sh. say he. don t make such a noise. i take it. come into my room and i ll show you why. 
dick pause amaze at the threshold for on torpenhow s sofa lay a girl asleep and breathe heavily. the little cheap sailor hat the blue and white dress fit for june than for february dabble with mud at the skirt the jacket trim with imitation astrakhan and rip at the shoulder seam the one and elevenpenny umbrella and above all the disgraceful condition of the kid top boot declare all thing. 
oh i say old man this be too bad. you mustn t bring this sort up here. they steal thing from the room. 
it look bad i admit but i be come in after lunch and she stagger into the hall. i think she be drink at first but it be collapse. i couldn t leave her a she be so i bring her up here and give her your lunch. she be faint from want of food. she go fast asleep the minute she have finish. 
i know something of that complaint. she s be live on sausage i suppose. torp you should have hand her over to a policeman for presume to faint in a respectable house. poor little wretch. look at the face. there isn t an ounce of immorality in it. only folly slack fatuous feeble futile folly. it s a typical head. d you notice how the skull begin to show through the flesh pad on the face and cheek bone. 
what a cold blood barbarian it be. don t hit a woman when she s down. can t we do anything. she be simply drop with starvation. she almost fell into my arm and when she get to the food she eat like a wild beast. it be horrible. 
i can give her money which she would probably spend in drink. be she go to sleep for ever. 
the girl open her eye and glare at the men between terror and effrontery. 
feel good. say torpenhow. 
yes. thank you. there aren t many gentleman that be a kind a you be. thank you. 
when do you leave service. say dick who have be watch the scar and chap hand. 
how do you know i be in service. i be. general servant. i didn t like it. 
and how do you like be your own mistress. 
do i look a if i like it. 
i suppose not. one moment. would you be good enough to turn your face to the window. 
the girl obey and dick watch her face keenly so keenly that she make a if to hide behind torpenhow. 
the eye have it say dick walk up and down. they be superb eye for my business. and after all every head depend on the eye. this ha be send from heaven to make up for what be take away. now the weekly strain s off my shoulder i can get to work in earnest. evidently send from heaven. yes. raise your chin a little please. 
gently old man gently. you re scar somebody out of her wit say torpenhow who could see the girl tremble. 
don t let him hit me. oh please don t let him hit me. i ve be hit cruel today because i speak to a man. don t let him look at me like that. he s reg lar wicked that one. don t let him look at me like that neither. oh i feel a if i hadn t nothing on when he look at me like that. 
the overstrain nerve in the frail body give way and the girl weep like a little child and begin to scream. dick throw open the window and torpenhow fling the door back. 
there you be say dick soothingly. my friend here can call for a policeman and you can run through that door. nobody be go to hurt you. 
the girl sob convulsively for a few minute and then try to laugh. 
nothing in the world to hurt you. now listen to me for a minute. i m what they call an artist by profession. you know what artist do. 
they draw the thing in red and black ink on the pop shop label. 
i dare say. i haven t rise to pop shop label yet. those be do by the academician. i want to draw your head. 
what for. 
because it s pretty. that be why you will come to the room across the land three time a week at eleven in the morning and i ll give you three quid a week just for sit still and be draw. and there s a quid on account. 
for nothing. oh my. the girl turn the sovereign in her hand and with more foolish tear ain t neither o you two gentleman afraid of my bilk you. 
no. only ugly girl do that. try and remember this place. and by the way what s your name. 
i m bessie bessie it s no use give the rest. bessie break stone break if you like. what s your name. but there no one ever give the real one. 
dick consult torpenhow with his eye. 
my name s heldar and my friend s call torpenhow. and you must be sure to come here. where do you live. 
south the water one room five and sixpence a week. aren t you make fun of me about that three quid. 
you ll see late on. and bessie next time you come remember you needn t wear that paint. it s bad for the skin and i have all the colour you ll be likely to need. 
bessie withdraw scrub her cheek with a rag pocket handkerchief. the two men look at each other. 
you re a man say torpenhow. 
i m afraid i ve be a fool. it isn t our business to run about the earth reform bessie brokes. and a woman of any kind ha no right on this land. 
perhaps she win t come back. 
she will if she think she can get food and warmth here. i know she will bad luck. but remember old man she isn t a woman. she s my model. and be careful. 
the idea. she s a dissolute little scarecrow a gutter snippet and nothing more. 
so you think. wait till she ha be feed a little and free from fear. that fair type recover itself very quickly. you win t know her in a week or two when that abject fear ha die out of her eye. she ll be too happy and smile for my purpose. 
but surely you re not take her out of charity. to please me. 
i be not in the habit of play with hot coal to please anybody. she ha be send from heaven a i may have remark before to help me with my melancolia. 
never hear a word about the lady before. 
what s the use of have a friend if you must sling your notion at him in word. you ought to know what i m think about. you ve hear me grunt lately. 
even so. but grunt mean anything in your language from bad baccy to wicked dealer. and i don t think i ve be much in your confidence for some time. 
it be a high and soulful grunt. you ought to have understand that it mean the melancolia. dick walk torpenhow up and down the room keep silence. then he smite him in the rib now don t you see it. bessie s abject futility and the terror in her eye weld on to one or two detail in the way of sorrow that have come under my experience lately. likewise some orange and black two key of each. but i can t explain on an empty stomach. 
it sound mad enough. you d good stick to your soldier dick instead of maunder about head and eye and experience. 
think so. dick begin to dance on his heel sing. 
they re a proud a a turkey when they hold the ready cash you ought to ear the way they laugh an joke. they be tricky an they re funny when they ve get the ready money ow. but see em when they re all stone break. 
then he sit down to pour out his heart to maisie in a four sheet letter of counsel and encouragement and register an oath that he would get to work with an undivided heart a soon a bessie should reappear. 
the girl keep her appointment unpainted and unadorned afraid and overbold by turn. when she find that she be merely expect to sit still she grow calm and criticise the appointment of the studio with freedom and some point. she like the warmth and the comfort and the release from fear of physical pain. dick make two or three study of her head in monochrome but the actual notion of the melancolia would not arrive. 
what a mess you keep your thing in. say bessie some day late when she felt herself thoroughly at home. i s pose your clothe be just a bad. gentleman never think what button and tape be make for. 
i buy thing to wear and wear em till they go to piece. i don t know what torpenhow doe. 
bessie make diligent inquiry in the latter s room and unearth a bale of disreputable sock. some of these i ll mend now she say and some i ll take home. d you know i sit all day long at home do nothing just like a lady and no more notice them other girl in the house than if they be so many fly. i don t have any unnecessary word but i put em down quick i can tell you when they talk to me. no. it s quite nice these day. i lock my door and they can only call me name through the keyhole and i sit inside just like a lady mend sock. mr. torpenhow wear his sock out both end at once. 
three quid a week from me and the delight of my society. no sock mend. nothing from torp except a nod on the land now and again and all his sock mend. bessie be very much a woman think dick. and he look at her between half shut eye. food and rest have transform the girl a dick know they would. 
what be you look at me like that for. she say quickly. don t. you look reg lar bad when you look that way. you don t think much o me do you. 
that depend on how you behave. 
bessie behave beautifully. only it be difficult at the end of a sit to bid her go out into the gray street. she very much prefer the studio and a big chair by the stave with some sock in her lap a an excuse for delay. then torpenhow would come in and bessie would be move to tell strange and wonderful story of her past and still strange one of her present improve circumstance. she would make them tea a though she have a right to make it. and once or twice on these occasion dick catch torpenhow s eye fix on the trim little figure and because bessie s flittings about the room make dick ardently long for maisie he realise whither torpenhow s thought be tend. and bessie be exceedingly careful of the condition of torpenhow s linen. she speak very little to him but sometimes they talk together on the land. 
i be a great fool dick say to himself. i know what red firelight look like when a man s tramp through a strange town. and ours be a lonely selfish sort of life at the best. i wonder maisie doesn t feel that sometimes. but i can t order bessie away. that s the bad of begin thing. one never know where they stop. 
one even after a sit prolong to the last limit of the light dick be rouse from a nap by a break voice in torpenhow s room. he jump to his foot. now what ought i to do. it look foolish to go in. oh bless you binkie. the little terrier thrust torpenhow s door open with his nose and come out to take possession of dick s chair. the door swing wide unheeded and dick across the land could see bessie in the half light make her little supplication to torpenhow. she be kneel by his side and her hand be clasp across his knee. 
i know i know she say thickly. tisn t right o me to do this but i can t help it. and you be so kind so kind. and you never take any notice o me. and i ve mend all your thing so carefully i do. oh please tisn t a if i be ask you to marry me. i wouldn t think of it. but you couldn t you take and live with me till miss right come along. i m only miss wrong i know but i d work my hand to the bare bone for you. and i m not ugly to look at. say you will. 
dick hardly recognise torpenhow s voice in reply but look here. it s no use. i m liable to be order off anywhere at a minute s notice if a war break out. at a minute s notice dear. 
what doe that matter. until you go then. until you go. tisn t much i m ask and you don t know how good i can cook. she have put an arm round his neck and be draw his head down. 
until i go then. 
torp say dick across the land. he could hardly steady his voice. 
come here a minute old man. i m in trouble. 
heaven send he ll listen to me. there be something very like an oath from bessie s lip. she be afraid of dick and disappear down the staircase in panic but it seem an age before torpenhow enter the studio. he go to the mantelpiece bury his head on his arm and groan like a wound bull. 
what the devil right have you to interfere. he say at last. 
who s interfere with which. your own sense tell you long ago you couldn t be such a fool. it be a tough rack st. anthony but you re all right now. 
i oughtn t to have see her move about these room a if they belong to her. that s what upset me. it give a lonely man a sort of hanker doesn t it. say torpenhow piteously. 
now you talk sense. it doe. but since you aren t in a condition to discus the disadvantage of double housekeep do you know what you re go to do. 
i don t. i wish i do. 
you re go away for a season on a brilliant tour to regain tone. you re go to brighton or scarborough or prawle point to see the ship go by. and you re go at once. isn t it odd. i ll take care of binkie but out you go immediately. never resist the devil. he hold the bank. fly from him. pack your thing and go. 
i believe you re right. where shall i go. 
and you call yourself a special correspondent. pack first and inquire afterwards. 
an hour late torpenhow be despatch into the night for a hansom. 
you ll probably think of some place to go to while you re move say dick. on to euston to begin with and oh yes get drink tonight. 
he return to the studio and light more candle for he find the room very dark. 
oh you jezebel. you futile little jezebel. win t you hate me tomorrow. binkie come here. 
binkie turn over on his back on the hearth rug and dick stir him with a meditative foot. 
i say she be not immoral. i be wrong. she say she could cook. that show premeditate sin. oh binkie if you be a man you will go to perdition. but if you be a woman and say that you can cook you will go to a much bad place. 
chapter x. 
what s you that follow at my side. the foe that ye must fight my lord. that hirples swift a i can ride. the shadow of the night my lord. then wheel my horse against the foe. he s down and overpast my lord. 
ye war against the sunset glow. the darkness gather fast my lord. the fight of heriot s ford. 
this be a cheerful life say dick some day late. torp s away. bessie hate me. i can t get at the notion of the melancolia. maisie s letter be scrappy. and i believe i have indigestion. what give a man pain across the head and spot before his eye binkie. shall u take some liver pill. 
dick have just go through a lively scene with bessie. she have for the fiftieth time reproach him for send torpenhow away. she explain her endure hatred for dick and make it clear to him that she only sit for the sake of his money. and mr. torpenhow s ten time a good man than you she conclude. 
he be. that s why he go away. i should have stay and make love to you. 
the girl sit with her chin on her hand scowl. to me. i d like to catch you. if i wasn t afraid o be hang i d kill you. that s what i d do. d you believe me. 
dick smile wearily. it be not pleasant to live in the company of a notion that will not work out a fox terrier that cannot talk and a woman who talk too much. he would have answer but at that moment there unroll itself from one corner of the studio a veil a it be of the flimsy gauze. he rub his eye but the gray haze would not go. 
this be disgraceful indigestion. binkie we will go to a medicine man. we can t have our eye interfere with for by these we get our bread. also mutton chop bone for little dog. 
the doctor be an affable local practitioner with white hair and he say nothing till dick begin to describe the gray film in the studio. 
we all want a little patch and repair from time to time he chirp. like a ship my dear sir exactly like a ship. sometimes the hull be out of order and we consult the surgeon. sometimes the rig and then i advise. sometimes the engine and we go to the brain specialist. sometimes the look out on the bridge be tire and then we see an oculist. i should recommend you to see an oculist. a little patch and repair from time to time be all we want. an oculist by all mean. 
dick seek an oculist the best in london. he be certain that the local practitioner do not know anything about his trade and more certain that maisie would laugh at him if he be force to wear spectacle. 
i ve neglect the warning of my lord the stomach too long. hence these spot before the eye binkie. i can see a well a i ever could. 
a he enter the dark hall that lead to the consult room a man cannon against him. dick saw the face a it hurry out into the street. 
that s the writer type. he ha the same model of the forehead a torp. he look very sick. probably hear something he didn t like. 
even a he think a great fear come upon dick a fear that make him hold his breath a he walk into the oculist s wait room with the heavy carve furniture the dark green paper and the sober hue print on the wall. he recognise a reproduction of one of his own sketch. 
many people be wait their turn before him. his eye be catch by a flame red and gold christmas carol book. little child come to that eye doctor and they need large type amusement. 
that s idolatrous bad art he say draw the book towards himself. 
from the anatomy of the angel it ha be make in germany. he open in mechanically and there leap to his eye a verse print in red ink. 
the next good joy that mary have it be the joy of three to see her good son jesus christ make the blind to see. make the blind to see good lord and happy we may be. praise father son and holy ghost to all eternity. 
dick read and re read the verse till his turn come and the doctor be bend above him seat in an arm chair. the blaze of the gas microscope in his eye make him wince. the doctor s hand touch the scar of the sword cut on dick s head and dick explain briefly how he have come by it. when the flame be remove dick saw the doctor s face and the fear come upon him again. the doctor wrap himself in a mist of word. dick catch allusion to scar frontal bone optic nerve extreme caution and the avoidance of mental anxiety. 
verdict. he say faintly. my business be paint and i daren t waste time. what do you make of it. 
again the whirl of word but this time they convey a mean. 
can you give me anything to drink. 
many sentence be pronounce in that darken room and the prisoner often need cheer. dick find a glass of liqueur brandy in his hand. 
a far a i can gather he say cough above the spirit you call it decay of the optic nerve or something and therefore hopeless. what be my time limit avoid all strain and worry. 
perhaps one year. 
my god. and if i don t take care of myself. 
i really could not say. one cannot ascertain the exact amount of injury inflict by the sword cut. the scar be an old one and exposure to the strong light of the desert do you say. with excessive application to fine work. i really could not say. 
i beg your pardon but it ha come without any warn. if you will let me i ll sit here for a minute and then i ll go. you have be very good in tell me the truth. without any warn. without any warn. thank. 
dick go into the street and be rapturously receive by binkie. 
we ve get it very badly little dog. just a badly a we can get it. we ll go to the park to think it out. 
they head for a certain tree that dick know well and they sit down to think because his leg be tremble under him and there be cold fear at the pit of his stomach. 
how could it have come without any warn. it s a sudden a be shoot. it s the live death binkie. we re to be shut up in the dark in one year if we re careful and we shan t see anybody and we shall never have anything we want not though we live to be a hundred. binkie wag his tail joyously. binkie we must think. let s see how it feel to be blind. dick shut his eye and flame comma and catherine wheel float inside the lid. yet when he look across the park the scope of his vision be not contract. he could see perfectly until a procession of slow wheel firework defile across his eyeball. 
little dorglums we aren t at all well. let s go home. if only torp be back now. 
but torpenhow be in the south of england inspect dockyard in the company of the nilghai. his letter be brief and full of mystery. 
dick have never ask anybody to help him in his joy or his sorrow. he argue in the loneliness of his studio henceforward to be decorate with a film of gray gauze in one corner that if his fate be blindness all the torpenhows in the world could not save him. i can t call him off his trip to sit down and sympathise with me. i must pull through this business alone he say. he be lie on the sofa eat his moustache and wonder what the darkness of the night would be like. then come to his mind the memory of a quaint scene in the soudan. a soldier have be nearly hack in two by a broad bladed arab spear. for one instant the man felt no pain. look down he saw that his life blood be go from him. the stupid bewilderment on his face be so intensely comic that both dick and torpenhow still pant and unstring from a fight for life have roar with laughter in which the man seem a if he would join but a his lip part in a sheepish grin the agony of death come upon him and he pitch grunt at their foot. dick laugh again remember the horror. it seem so exactly like his own case. 
but i have a little more time allow me he say. he pace up and down the room quietly at first but afterwards with the hurry foot of fear. it be a though a black shadow stand at his elbow and urge him to go forward. and there be only weave circle and float pin dot before his eye. 
we need to be calm binkie. we must be calm. he talk aloud for the sake of distraction. this isn t nice at all. what shall we do. we must do something. our time be short. i shouldn t have believe that this morning. but now thing be different. binkie where be moses when the light go out. 
binkie smile from ear to ear a a well breed terrier should but make no suggestion. 
be there but world enough and time this coyness binkie be not crime. but at my back i always hear he wipe his forehead which be unpleasantly damp. what can i do. what can i do. i haven t any notion leave and i can t think connectedly but i must do something or i shall go off my head. 
the hurry walk recommence dick stop every now and again to drag forth long neglect canvas and old note book. for he turn to his work by instinct a a thing that could not fail. you win t do and you win t do he say at each inspection. no more soldier. i couldn t paint em. sudden death come home too nearly and this be battle and murder for me. 
the day be fail and dick think for a moment that the twilight of the blind have come upon him unaware. allah almighty. he cry despairingly help me through the time of wait and i win t whine when my punishment come. what can i do now before the light go. 
there be no answer. dick wait till he could regain some sort of control over himself. his hand be shake and he pride himself on their steadiness. he could feel that his lip be quiver and the sweat be run down his face. he be lash by fear drive forward by the desire to get to work at once and accomplish something and madden by the refusal of his brain to do more than repeat the news that he be about to go blind. it s a humiliate exhibition he think and i m glad torp isn t here to see. the doctor say i be to avoid mental worry. come here and let me pet you binkie. 
the little dog yelp because dick nearly squeeze the bark out of him. 
then he hear the man speak in the twilight and doglike understand that his trouble stand off from him allah be good binkie. not quite so gentle a we could wish but we ll discus that late. i think i see my way to it now. all those study of bessie s head be nonsense and they nearly bring your master into a scrape. i hold the notion now a clear a crystal the melancolia that transcend all wit. there shall be maisie in that head because i shall never get maisie. and be of course because she know all about melancolia though she doesn t know she know. and there shall be some draw in it and it shall all end up with a laugh. that s for myself. shall she giggle or grin. no she shall laugh right out of the canvas and every man and woman that ever have a sorrow of their own shall what be it the poem say. 
understand the speech and feel a stir of fellowship in all disastrous fight. 
in all disastrous fight. that s good than paint the thing merely to pique maisie. i can do it now because i have it inside me. binkie i m go to hold you up by your tail. you re an omen. come here. 
binkie swing head downward for a moment without speak. 
rather like hold a guinea pig. but you re a brave little dog and you don t yelp when you re hang up. it be an omen. 
binkie go to his own chair and a often a he look saw dick walk up and down rub his hand and chuckle. that night dick write a letter to maisie full of the tender regard for her health but say very little about his own and dream of the melancolia to be bear. not till morning do he remember that something might happen to him in the future. 
he fell to work whistle softly and be swallow up in the clean clear joy of creation which doe not come to man too often l he should consider himself the equal of his god and so refuse to die at the appoint time. he forget maisie torpenhow and binkie at his foot but remember to stir bessie who need very little stir into a tremendous rage that he might watch the smoulder light in her eye. 
he throw himself without reservation into his work and do not think of the doom that be to overtake him for he be possess with his notion and the thing of this world have no power upon him. 
you re please today say bessie. 
dick wave his mahl stick in mystic circle and go to the sideboard for a drink. in the even when the exaltation of the day have die down he go to the sideboard again and after some visit become convince that the eye doctor be a liar since he could still see everything very clearly. 
he be of opinion that he would even make a home for maisie and that whether she like it or not she should be his wife. the mood pass next morning but the sideboard and all upon it remain for his comfort. 
again he set to work and his eye trouble him with spot and dash and blur till he have take counsel with the sideboard and the melancolia both on the canvas and in his own mind appear lovely than ever. there be a delightful sense of irresponsibility upon him such a they feel who walk among their fellow men know that the death sentence of disease be upon them and see that fear be but waste of the little time leave be riotously happy. the day pass without event. 
bessie arrive punctually always and though her voice seem to dick to come from a distance her face be always very near. the melancolia begin to flame on the canvas in the liken of a woman who have know all the sorrow in the world and be laugh at it. it be true that the corner of the studio drape themselves in gray film and retire into the darkness that the spot in his eye and the pain across his head be very troublesome and that maisie s letter be hard to read and hard still to answer. he could not tell her of his trouble and he could not laugh at her account of her own melancolia which be always go to be finish. but the furious day of toil and the night of wild dream make amend for all and the sideboard be his best friend on earth. 
bessie be singularly dull. she use to shriek with rage when dick star at her between half close eye. now she sulk or watch him with disgust say very little. 
torpenhow have be absent for six week. an incoherent note herald his return. news. great news. he write. the nilghai know and so doe the keneu. we re all back on thursday. get lunch and clean your accoutrement. 
dick show bessie the letter and she abuse him for that he have ever send torpenhow away and ruin her life. 
well say dick brutally you re good a you be instead of make love to some drunken beast in the street. he felt that he have rescue torpenhow from great temptation. 
i don t know if that s any bad than sit to a drunken beast in a studio. you haven t be sober for three week. you ve be soak the whole time. and yet you pretend you re good than me. 
what d you mean. say dick. 
mean. you ll see when mr. torpenhow come back. 
it be not long to wait. torpenhow meet bessie on the staircase without a sign of feel. he have news that be more to him than many bessies and the keneu and the nilghai be trample behind him call for dick. 
drink like a fish bessie whisper. he s be at it for nearly a month. she follow the men stealthily to hear judgment do. 
they come into the studio rejoice to be welcome over effusively by a draw line shrink haggard wreck unshaven blue white about the nostril stoop in the shoulder and peer under his eyebrow nervously. the drink have be at work a steadily a dick. 
be this you. say torpenhow. 
all that s leave of me. sit down. binkie s quite well and i ve be do some good work. he reel where he stand. 
you ve do some of the bad work you ve ever do in your life. man alive you re. 
torpenhow turn to his companion appealingly and they leave the room to find lunch elsewhere. then he speak. but since the reproof of a friend be much too sacred and intimate a thing to be print and since torpenhow use figure and metaphor which be unseemly and contempt untranslatable it will never be know what be actually say to dick who blink and wink and pick at his hand. after a time the culprit begin to feel the need of a little self respect. he be quite sure that he have not in any way depart from virtue and there be reason too of which torpenhow know nothing. he would explain. 
he rise try to straighten his shoulder and speak to the face he could hardly see. 
you be right he say. but i be right too. after you go away i have some trouble with my eye. so i go to an oculist and he turn a gasogene i mean a gas engine into my eye. that be very long ago. he say scar on the head sword cut and optic nerve. make a note of that. so i be go blind. i have some work to do before i go blind and i suppose that i must do it. i cannot see much now but i can see best when i be drink. i do not know i be drink till i be tell but i must go on with my work. if you want to see it there it be. he point to the all but finish melancolia and look for applause. 
torpenhow say nothing and dick begin to whimper feebly for joy at see torpenhow again for grief at misdeed if indeed they be misdeed that make torpenhow remote and unsympathetic and for childish vanity hurt since torpenhow have not give a word of praise to his wonderful picture. 
bessie look through the keyhole after a long pause and saw the two walk up and down a usual torpenhow s hand on dick s shoulder. 
hereat she say something so improper that it shock even binkie who be dribble patiently on the land with the hope of see his master again. 
chapter xi. 
the lark will make her hymn to god the partridge call her brood while i forget the heath i tread the field wherein i stand. 
ti dule to know not night from morn but deep dule to know i can but hear the hunter s horn that once i use to blow. the only son. 
it be the third day after torpenhow s return and his heart be heavy. 
do you mean to tell me that you can t see to work without whiskey. it s generally the other way about. 
can a drunkard swear on his honour. say dick. 
yes if he ha be a good a man a you. 
then i give you my word of honour say dick speak hurriedly through parch lip. old man i can hardly see your face now. you ve keep me sober for two day if i ever be drink and i ve do no work. don t keep me back any more. i don t know when my eye may give out. the spot and dot and the pain and thing be crowd bad than ever. i swear i can see all right when i m when i m moderately screw a you say. give me three more sitting from bessie and all the stuff i want and the picture will be do. i can t kill myself in three day. it only mean a touch of d. t. at the bad. 
if i give you three day more will you promise me to stop work and the other thing whether the picture s finish or not. 
i can t. you don t know what that picture mean to me. but surely you could get the nilghai to help you and knock me down and tie me up. i shouldn t fight for the whiskey but i should for the work. 
go on then. i give you three day. but you re nearly break my heart. 
dick return to his work toil a one possess. and the yellow devil of whiskey stand by him and chase away the spot in his eye. the melancolia be nearly finish and be all or nearly all that he have hop she would be. dick jest with bessie who remind him that he be a drunken beast. but the reproof do not move him. 
you can t understand be. we be in sight of land now and soon we shall lie back and think about what we ve do. i ll give you three month pay when the picture s finish and next time i have any more work in hand but that doesn t matter. win t three month pay make you hate me le. 
no it win t. i hate you and i ll go on hat you. mr. torpenhow win t speak to me any more. he s always look at map. 
bessie do not say that she have again lay siege to torpenhow or that at the end of our passionate plead he have pick her up give her a kiss and put her outside the door with the recommendation not to be a little fool. he spend most of his time in the company of the nilghai and their talk be of war in the near future the hire of transport and secret preparation among the dockyard. he do not wish to see dick till the picture be finish. 
he s do first class work he say to the nilghai and it s quite out of his regular line. but for the matter of that so s his infernal soak. 
never mind. leave him alone. when he ha come to his sens again we ll carry him off from this place and let him breathe clean air. poor dick. i don t envy you torp when his eye fail. 
yes it will be a case of god help the man who s chain to our davie. the bad be that we don t know when it will happen and i believe the uncertainty and the wait have send dick to the whiskey more than anything else. 
how the arab who cut his head open would grin if he know. 
he s at perfect liberty to grin if he can. he s dead. that s poor consolation now. 
in the afternoon of the third day torpenhow hear dick call for him. 
all finish. he shout. i ve do it. come in. isn t she a beauty. isn t she a darling. i ve be down to hell to get her. but isn t she worth it. 
torpenhow look at the head of a woman who laugh a full lipped hollow eye woman who laugh from out of the canvas a dick have intend she would. 
who teach you how to do it. say torpenhow. the touch and notion have nothing to do with your regular work. what a face it be. what eye and what insolence. unconsciously he throw back his head and laugh with her. she s see the game play out i don t think she have a good time of it and now she doesn t care. isn t that the idea. 
exactly. 
where do you get the mouth and chin from. they don t belong to be. 
they re some one else s. but isn t it good. isn t it thunder good. wasn t it worth the whiskey. i do it. alone i do it and it s the best i can do. he draw his breath sharply and whisper just god. what could i not do ten year hence if i can do this now. by the way what do you think of it be. 
the girl be bite her lip. she loathe torpenhow because he have take no notice of her. 
i think it s just the horrid beastly thing i ever saw she answer and turn away. 
more than you will be of that way of think young woman. dick there s a sort of murderous viperine suggestion in the poise of the head that i don t understand say torpenhow. 
that s trick work say dick chuckle with delight at be completely understand. i couldn t resist one little bite of sheer swagger. it s a french trick and you wouldn t understand. but it s get at by slew round the head a trifle and a tiny tiny foreshorten of one side of the face from the angle of the chin to the top of the leave ear. that and deepen the shadow under the lobe of the ear. it be flagrant trick work. but have the notion fix i felt entitle to play with it oh you beauty. 
amen. she be a beauty. i can feel it. 
so will every man who ha any sorrow of his own say dick slap his thigh. he shall see his trouble there and by the lord harry just when he s feel properly sorry for himself he shall throw back his head and laugh a she be laugh. i ve put the life of my heart and the light of my eye into her and i don t care what come. i m tire awfully tire. i think i ll get to sleep. take away the whiskey it ha serve it turn and give bessie thirty six quid and three over for luck. cover the picture. 
he drop asleep in the long chair hide face white and haggard almost before he have finish the sentence. bessie try to take torpenhow s hand. aren t you never go to speak to me any more. she say. but torpenhow be look at dick. 
what a stock of vanity the man ha. i ll take him in hand tomorrow and make much of him. he deserve it. eh. what be that be. 
nothing. i ll put thing tidy here a little and then i ll go. you couldn t give the that three month pay now could you. he say you be to. 
torpenhow give her a check and go to his own room. bessie faithfully tidy up the studio set the door ajar for flight empty half a bottle of turpentine on a duster and begin to scrub the face of the melancolia viciously. the paint do not smudge quickly enough. she take a palette knife and scrap follow each stroke with the wet duster. in five minute the picture be a formless scar muddle of colour. she throw the paint stain duster into the studio stave stick out her tongue at the sleeper and whisper bilk. a she turn to run down the staircase. she would never see torpenhow any more but she have at least do harm to the man who have come between her and her desire and who use to make fun of her. cash the check be the very cream of the jest to bessie. then the little privateer sail across the thames to be swallow up in the gray wilderness of south the water. 
dick sleep till late in the even when torpenhow drag him off to bed. his eye be a bright a his voice be hoarse. let s have another look at the picture he say insistently a a child. 
you go to bed say torpenhow. you aren t at all well though you mayn t know it. you re a jumpy a a cat. 
i reform tomorrow. good night. 
a he repassed through the studio torpenhow lift the cloth above the picture and almost betray himself by outcry. wipe out. scrap out and turped out. he s on the verge of jump a it be. that s be the little fiend. only a woman could have do that. with the ink not dry on the check too. dick will be rave mad tomorrow. it be all my fault for try to help gutter devil. oh my poor dick the lord be hit you very hard. 
dick could not sleep that night partly for pure joy and partly because the well know catherine wheel inside his eye have give place to crackle volcano of many colour fire. spout away he say aloud. 
i ve do my work and now you can do what you please. he lay still star at the ceiling the long pen up delirium of drink in his vein his brain on fire with race thought that would not stay to be consider and his hand crisp and dry. he have just discover that he be paint the face of the melancolia on a revolve dome rib with million of light and that all his wondrous thought stand embody hundred of foot below his tiny swing plank shout together in his honour when something crack inside his temple like an overstrain bowstring the glitter dome break inward and he be alone in the thick night. 
i ll go to sleep. the room s very dark. let s light a lamp and see how the melancolia look. there ought to have be a moon. 
it be then that torpenhow hear his name call by a voice that he do not know in the rattle accent of deadly fear. 
he s look at the picture be his first think a he hurry into the bedroom and find dick sit up and beat the air with his hand. 
torp. torp. where be you. for pity s sake come to me. 
what s the matter. 
dick clutch at his shoulder. matter. i ve be lie here for hour in the dark and you never hear me. torp old man don t go away. i m all in the dark. in the dark i tell you. 
torpenhow hold the candle within a foot of dick s eye but there be no light in those eye. he light the gas and dick hear the flame catch. the grip of his finger on torpenhow s shoulder make torpenhow wince. 
don t leave me. you wouldn t leave me alone now would you. i can t see. d you understand. it s black quite black and i feel a if i be fall through it all. 
steady doe it. torpenhow put his arm round dick and begin to rock him gently to and fro. 
that s good. now don t talk. if i keep very quiet for a while this darkness will lift. it seem just on the point of break. h sh. dick knit his brow and star desperately in front of him. the night air be chill torpenhow s toe. 
can you stay like that a minute. he say. i ll get my dress gown and some slipper. 
dick clutch the bed head with both hand and wait for the darkness to clear away. what a time you ve be. he cry when torpenhow return. it s a black a ever. what be you bang about in the door way. 
long chair horse blanket pillow. go to sleep by you. lie down now. you ll be good in the morning. 
i shan t. the voice rise to a wail. my god. i m blind. i m blind and the darkness will never go away. he make a if to leap from the bed but torpenhow s arm be round him and torpenhow s chin be on his shoulder and his breath be squeeze out of him. he could only gasp blind. and wriggle feebly. 
steady dickie steady. say the deep voice in his ear and the grip tighten. bite on the bullet old man and don t let them think you re afraid. the grip could draw no close. both men be breathe heavily. 
dick throw his head from side to side and groan. 
let me go he pant. you re crack my rib. we we mustn t let them think we re afraid must we all the power of darkness and that lot. 
lie down. it s all over now. 
yes say dick obediently. but would you mind let me hold your hand. i feel a if i want something to hold on to. one drop through the dark so. 
torpenhow thrust out a large and hairy paw from the long chair. dick clutch it tightly and in half an hour have fall asleep. torpenhow withdraw his hand and stoop over dick kiss him lightly on the forehead a men do sometimes kiss a wound comrade in the hour of death to ease his departure. 
in the gray dawn torpenhow hear dick talk to himself. he be adrift on the shoreless tide of delirium speak very quickly it s a pity a great pity. but it s help and it must be eat master george. sufficient unto the day be the blindness thereof and further put aside all melancolias and false humour it be of obvious notoriety such a mine be that the queen can do no wrong. torp doesn t know that. i ll tell him when we re a little farther into the desert. 
what a bungle those boatman be make of the steamer rope. they ll have that four inch hawser chafe through in a minute. i tell you so there she go. white foam on green water and the steamer slew round. how good that look. i ll sketch it. no i can t. i m afflict with ophthalmia. that be one of the ten plague of egypt and it extend up the nile in the shape of cataract. ha. that s a joke torp. laugh you grave image and stand clear of the hawser. it ll knock you into the water and make your dress all dirty maisie dear. 
oh. say torpenhow. this happen before. that night on the river. 
she ll be sure to say it s my fault if you get muddy and you re quite near enough to the breakwater. maisie that s not fair. ah. i know you d miss. 
low and to the leave dear. but you ve no conviction. don t be angry darling. i d cut my hand off if it would give you anything more than obstinacy. my right hand if it would serve. 
now we mustn t listen. here s an island shout across sea of misunderstand with a vengeance. but it s shout truth i fancy say torpenhow. 
the babble continue. it all bore upon maisie. sometimes dick lecture at length on his craft then he curse himself for his folly in be enslave. he plead to maisie for a kiss only one kiss before she go away and call to her to come back from vitry sur marne if she would. but through all his raving he bid heaven and earth witness that the queen could do no wrong. 
torpenhow listen attentively and learn every detail of dick s life that have be hide from him. for three day dick rave through the past and then a natural sleep. what a strain he ha be run under poor chap. say torpenhow. dick of all men hand himself over like a dog. and i be lecture him on arrogance. i ought to have know that it be no use to judge a man. but i do it. what a demon that girl must be. dick s give her his life confound him. and she s give him one kiss apparently. 
torp say dick from the bed go out for a walk. you ve be here too long. i ll get up. hi. this be annoy. i can t dress myself. oh it s too absurd. 
torpenhow help him into his clothe and lead him to the big chair in the studio. he sit quietly wait under strain nerve for the darkness to lift. it do not lift that day nor the next. dick adventure on a voyage round the wall. he hit his shin against the stave and this suggest to him that it would be good to crawl on all four one hand in front of him. torpenhow find him on the floor. 
i m try to get the geography of my new possession say he. d you remember that nigger you gouge in the square. pity you didn t keep the odd eye. it would have be useful. any letter for me. give me all the one in fat gray envelope with a sort of crown thing outside. they re of no importance. 
torpenhow give him a letter with a black m. on the envelope flap. dick put it into his pocket. there be nothing in it that torpenhow might not have read but it belong to himself and to maisie who would never belong to him. 
when she find that i don t write she ll stop write. it s good so. i couldn t be any use to her now dick argue and the tempter suggest that he should make know his condition. every nerve in him revolt. i have fall low enough already. i m not go to beg for pity. besides it would be cruel to her. he strive to put maisie out of his thought. but the blind have many opportunity for think and a the tide of his strength come back to him in the long employless day of dead darkness dick s soul be trouble to the core. another letter and another come from maisie. then there be silence and dick sit by the window the pulse of summer in the air and picture her be win by another man strong than himself. his imagination the keen for the dark background it work against spar him no single detail that might send him rag up and down the studio to stumble over the stave that seem to be in four place at once. bad of all tobacco would not taste in the darkness. the arrogance of the man have disappear and in it place be settle despair that torpenhow know and blind passion that dick confide to his pillow at night. the interval between the paroxysm be fill with intolerable wait and the weight of intolerable darkness. 
come out into the park say torpenhow. you haven t stir out since the begin of thing. 
what s the use. there s no movement in the dark. and besides he pause irresolutely at the head of the stair something will run over me. 
not if i m with you. proceed gingerly. 
the roar of the street fill dick with nervous terror and he cling to torpenhow s arm. fancy have to feel for a gutter with your foot. he say petulantly a he turn into the park. let s curse god and die. 
sentry be forbid to pay unauthorised compliment. by jove there be the guard. 
dick s figure straighten. let s get near em. let s go in and look. let s get on the grass and run. i can smell the tree. 
mind the low rail. that s all right. torpenhow kick out a tuft of grass with his heel. smell that he say. isn t it good. dick sniff luxuriously. now pick up your foot and run. they approach a near to the regiment a be possible. the clank of bayonet be unfixed make dick s nostril quiver. 
let s get near. they re in column aren t they. 
yes. how do you know. 
felt it. oh my men. my beautiful men. he edge forward a though he could see. i could draw those chap once. who ll draw em now. 
they ll move off in a minute. don t jump when the band begin. 
huh. i m not a new charger. it s the silence that hurt. near torp. near. oh my god what wouldn t i give to see em for a minute. one half minute. 
he could hear the arm life almost within reach of him could hear the sling tighten across the bandsman s chest a he heave the big drum from the grind. 
stick cross above his head whisper torpenhow. 
i know. i know. who should know if i don t. h sh. 
the drum stick fell with a boom and the men swing forward to the crash of the band. dick felt the wind of the mass movement in his face hear the madden tramp of foot and the friction of the pouch on the belt. the big drum pound out the tune. it be a music hall refrain that make a perfect quickstep. 
he must be a man of decent height he must be a man of weight he must come home on a saturday night in a thoroughly sober state. he must know how to love me and he must know how to kiss. and if he s enough to keep u both i can t refuse him bliss. 
what s the matter. say torpenhow a he saw dick s head fall when the last of the regiment have depart. 
nothing. i feel a little bite out of the run that s all. torp take me back. why do you bring me out. 
chapter xii. 
there be three friend that bury the fourth the mould in his mouth and the dust in his eye and they go south and east and north the strong man fight but the sick man dy. 
there be three friend that speak of the dead the strong man fight but the sick man dy. and would he be with u now they say the sun in our face and the wind in our eye. ballad. 
the nilghai be angry with torpenhow. dick have be send to bed blind men be ever under the order of those who can see and since he have return from the park have fluently swear at torpenhow because he be alive and all the world because it be alive and could see while he dick be dead in the death of the blind who at the best be only burden upon their associate. torpenhow have say something about a mr. gummidge and dick have retire in a black fury to handle and re handle three unopened letter from maisie. 
the nilghai fat burly and aggressive be in torpenhow s room. 
behind him sit the keneu the great war eagle and between them lay a large map embellish with black and white head pin. 
i be wrong about the balkan say the nilghai. but i m not wrong about this business. the whole of our work in the southern soudan must be do over again. the public doesn t care of course but the government doe and they be make their arrangement quietly. you know that a well a i do. 
i remember how the people curse u when our troop withdraw from omdurman. it be bind to crop up sooner or late. but i can t go say torpenhow. he point through the open door. it be a hot night. can you blame me. 
the keneu purr above his pipe like a large and very happy cat don t blame you in the least. it s uncommonly good of you and all the rest of it but every man even you torp must consider his work. i know it sound brutal but dick s out of the race down gastados expend finish do for. he ha a little money of his own. he win t starve and you can t pull out of your slide for his sake. think of your own reputation. 
dick s be five time big than mine and yours put together. 
that be because he sign his name to everything he do. it s all end now. you must hold yourself in readiness to move out. you can command your own price and you do good work than any three of u. 
don t tell me how tempt it be. i ll stay here to look after dick for a while. he s a cheerful a a bear with a sore head but i think he like to have me near him. 
the nilghai say something uncomplimentary about soft head fool who throw away their career for other fool. torpenhow flush angrily. the constant strain of attendance on dick have wear his nerve thin. 
there remain a third fate say the keneu thoughtfully. consider this and be not large fool than necessary. dick be or rather be an able body man of moderate attraction and a certain amount of audacity. 
oho. say the nilghai who remember an affair at cairo. i begin to see torp i m sorry. 
torpenhow nod forgiveness. you be more sorry when he cut you out though. go on keneu. 
i ve often think when i ve see men die out in the desert that if the news could be send through the world and the mean of transport be quick enough there would be one woman at least at each man s bedside. 
there would be some mighty quaint revelation. let u be grateful thing be a they be say the nilghai. 
let u rather reverently consider whether torp s three corner ministration be exactly what dick need just now. what do you think yourself torp. 
i know they aren t. but what can i do. 
lay the matter before the board. we be all dick s friend here. you ve be most in his life. 
but i pick it up when he be off his head. 
the great chance of it be true. i think we should arrive. who be she. 
then torpenhow tell a tale in plain word a a special correspondent who know how to make a verbal precis should tell it. the men listen without interruption. 
be it possible that a man can come back across the year to his calf love. 
say the keneu. be it possible. 
i give the fact. he say nothing about it now but he sit fumble three letter from her when he think i m not look. what be i to do. 
speak to him say the nilghai. 
oh yes. write to her i don t know her full name remember and ask her to accept him out of pity. i believe you once tell dick you be sorry for him nilghai. you remember what happen eh. go into the bedroom and suggest full confession and an appeal to this maisie girl whoever she be. i honestly believe he d try to kill you. and the blindness ha make him rather muscular. 
torpenhow s course be perfectly clear say the keneu. he will go to vitry sur marne which be on the bezieres land railway single track from tourgas. the prussian shell it out in because there be a poplar on the top of a hill eighteen hundred yard from the church spire. there s a squadron of cavalry quarter there or ought to be. where this studio torp speak about may be i cannot tell. that be torp s business. i have give him his route. he will dispassionately explain the situation to the girl and she will come back to dick the more especially because to use dick s word there be nothing but her damn obstinacy to keep them apart. 
and they have four hundred and twenty pound a year between em. 
dick never lose his head for figure even in his delirium. you haven t the shadow of an excuse for not go say the nilghai. 
torpenhow look very uncomfortable. but it s absurd and impossible. i can t drag her back by the hair. 
our business the business for which we draw our money be to do absurd and impossible thing generally with no reason whatever except to amuse the public. here we have a reason. the rest doesn t matter. i shall share these room with the nilghai till torpenhow return. there will be a batch of unbridle special come to town in a little while and these will serve a their headquarter. another reason for send torpenhow away. thus providence help those who help others and here the keneu drop his measure speech we can t have you tie by the leg to dick when the trouble begin. it s your only chance of get away. and dick will be grateful. 
he will bad luck. i can but go and try. i can t conceive a woman in her sens refuse dick. 
talk that out with the girl. i have see you wheedle an angry mahdieh woman into give you date. this win t be a tithe a difficult. you have good not be here tomorrow afternoon because the nilghai and i will be in possession. it be an order. obey. 
dick say torpenhow next morning can i do anything for you. 
no. leave me alone. how often must i remind you that i m blind. 
nothing i could go for to fetch for to carry for to bring. 
no. take those infernal creak boot of yours away. 
poor chap. say torpenhow to himself. i must have be sit on his nerve lately. he want a light step. then aloud very well. since you re so independent i m go off for four or five day. say goodbye at least. the housekeeper will look after you and keneu ha my room. 
dick s face fell. you win t be long than a week at the outside. i know i m touch in the temper but i can t get on without you. 
can t you. you ll have to do without me in a little time and you ll be glad i m go. 
dick felt his way back to the big chair and wonder what these thing might mean. he do not wish to be tend by the housekeeper and yet torpenhow s constant tenderness jar on him. he do not exactly know what he want. the darkness would not lift and maisie s unopened letter felt wear and old from much handle. he could never read them for himself a long a life endure. but maisie might have send him some fresh one to play with. the nilghai enter with a gift a piece of red model wax. he fancy that dick might find interest in use his hand. dick poke and pat the stuff for a few minute and be it like anything in the world. he say drearily. take it away. i may get the touch of the blind in fifty year. do you know where torpenhow ha go. 
the nilghai know nothing. we re stay in his room till he come back. can we do anything for you. 
i d like to be leave alone please. don t think i m ungrateful. but i m best alone. 
the nilghai chuckle and dick resume his drowsy brood and sullen rebellion against fate. he have long since cease to think about the work he have do in the old day and the desire to do more work have depart from him. he be exceedingly sorry for himself and the completeness of his tender grief soothe him. but his soul and his body cry for maisie maisie who would understand. his mind point out that maisie have her own work to do would not care. his experience have teach him that when money be exhaust woman go away and that when a man be knock out of the race the others trample on him. then at the least say dick in reply she could use me a i use binat for some sort of a study. i wouldn t ask more than to be near her again even though i know that another man be make love to her. ugh. what a dog i be. 
a voice on the staircase begin to sing joyfully. 
when we go go go away from here our creditor will weep and they will wail our absence much regret when they find that we ve be get out of england by next tuesday s indian mail. 
follow the trample of foot slam of torpenhow s door and the sound of voice in strenuous debate some one squeak and see you good fellow i have find a new water bottle fir class patent eh how you say. open himself inside out. 
dick spring to his foot. he know the voice well. that s cassavetti come back from the continent. now i know why torp go away. there s a row somewhere and i m out of it. 
the nilghai command silence in vain. that s for my sake dick say bitterly. the bird be get ready to fly and they wouldn t tell me. i can hear morten sutherland and mackaye. half the war correspondent in london be there. and i m out of it. 
he stumble across the land and plunge into torpenhow s room. he could feel that it be full of men. where s the trouble. say he. in the balkan at last. why didn t some one tell me. 
we think you wouldn t be interest say the nilghai shamefacedly. 
it s in the soudan a usual. 
you lucky dog. let me sit here while you talk. i shan t be a skeleton at the feast. cassavetti where be you. your english be a bad a ever. 
dick be lead into a chair. he hear the rustle of the map and the talk sweep forward carry him with it. everybody speak at once discuss press censorship railway route transport water supply the capacity of general these in language that would have horrify a trust public rant assert denounce and laugh at the top of their voice. there be the glorious certainty of war in the soudan at any moment. the nilghai say so and it be well to be in readiness. the keneu have telegraph to cairo for horse. cassavetti have steal a perfectly inaccurate list of troop that would be order forward and be read it out amid profane interruption and the keneu introduce to dick some man unknown who would be employ a war artist by the central southern syndicate. it s his first out say the keneu. give him some tip about rid camel. 
oh those camel. groan cassavetti. i shall learn to ride him again and now i be so much all soft. listen you good fellow. i know your military arrangement very well. there will go the royal argalshire sutherlanders. so it be read to me upon best authority. 
a roar of laughter interrupt him. 
sit down say the nilghai. the list aren t even make out in the war office. 
will there be any force at suakin. say a voice. 
then the outcry redouble and grow mix thus. how many egyptian troop will they use. god help the fellah. there s a railway in plumstead marsh do duty a a five court. we shall have the suakin berber line build at last. canadian voyageurs be too careful. give me a half drink krooman in a whale boat. who command the desert column. no they never blow up the big rock in the ghineh bend. we shall have to be haul up a usual. somebody tell me if there s an indian contingent or i ll break everybody s head. don t tear the map in two. it s a war of occupation i tell you to connect with the african company in the south. there s guinea worm in most of the well on that route. then the nilghai despair of peace bellow like a fog horn and beat upon the table with both hand. 
but what become of torpenhow. say dick in the silence that follow. 
torp s in abeyance just now. he s off love make somewhere i suppose say the nilghai. 
he say he be go to stay at home say the keneu. 
be he. say dick with an oath. he win t. i m not much good now but if you and the nilghai hold him down i ll engage to trample on him till he see reason. he ll stay behind indeed. he s the best of you all. there ll be some tough work by omdurman. we shall come there to stay this time. 
but i forget. i wish i be go with you. 
so do we all dickie say the keneu. 
and i most of all say the new artist of the central southern syndicate. 
could you tell me. 
i ll give you one piece of advice dick answer move towards the door. if you happen to be cut over the head in a scrimmage don t guard. tell the man to go on cut. you ll find it cheap in the end. thank for let me look in. 
there s grit in dick say the nilghai an hour late when the room be empty of all save the keneu. 
it be the sacred call of the war trumpet. do you notice how he answer to it. poor fellow. let s look at him say the keneu. 
the excitement of the talk have die away. dick be sit by the studio table with his head on his arm when the men come in. he do not change his position. 
it hurt he moan. god forgive me but it hurt cruelly. and yet y know the world ha a knack of spin round all by itself. shall i see torp before he go. 
oh yes. you ll see him say the nilghai. 
chapter xiii. 
the sun go down an hour ago i wonder if i face towards home. if i lose my way in the light of day how shall i find it now night be come. old song. 
maisie come to bed. 
it s so hot i can t sleep. don t worry. 
maisie put her elbow on the window sill and look at the moonlight on the straight poplar flank road. summer have come upon vitry sur marne and parch it to the bone. the grass be dry burn in the meadow the clay by the bank of the river be cake to brick the roadside flower be long since dead and the rose in the garden hang wither on their stalk. the heat in the little low bedroom under the eaves be almost intolerable. the very moonlight on the wall of kami s studio across the road seem to make the night hot and the shadow of the big bell handle by the close gate cast a bar of inky black that catch maisie s eye and annoy her. 
horrid thing. it should be all white she murmur. and the gate isn t in the middle of the wall either. i never notice that before. 
maisie be hard to please at that hour. first the heat of the past few week have wear her down. secondly her work and particularly the study of a female head intend to represent the melancolia and not finish in time for the salon be unsatisfactory. thirdly kami have say a much two day before. fourthly but so completely fourthly that it be hardly worth think about dick her property have not write to her for more than six week. she be angry with the heat with kami and with her work but she be exceedingly angry with dick. 
she have write to him three time each time propose a fresh treatment of her melancolia. dick have take no notice of these communication. she have resolve to write no more. when she return to england in the autumn for her pride s sake she could not return early she would speak to him. she miss the sunday afternoon conference more than she care to admit. all that kami say be continuez mademoiselle continuez toujours and he have be repeat the wearisome counsel through the hot summer exactly like a cicada an old gray cicada in a black alpaca coat white trouser and a huge felt hat. 
but dick have tramp masterfully up and down her little studio north of the cool green london park and have say thing ten time bad than continuez before he snatch the brush out of her hand and show her where the error lay. his last letter maisie remember contain some trivial advice about not sketch in the sun or drink water at wayside farmhouse. and he have say that not once but three time a if he do not know that maisie could take care of herself. 
but what be he do that he could not trouble to write. a murmur of voice in the road make her lean from the window. a cavalryman of the little garrison in the town be talk to kami s cook. the moonlight glitter on the scabbard of his sabre which he be hold in his hand l it should clank inopportunely. the cook s cap cast deep shadow on her face which be close to the conscript s. he slide his arm round her waist and there follow the sound of a kiss. 
faugh. say maisie step back. 
what s that. say the red haired girl who be toss uneasily outside her bed. 
only a conscript kiss the cook say maisie. 
they ve go away now. she lean out of the window again and put a shawl over her nightgown to guard against chill. there be a very small night breeze abroad and a sun bake rise below nod it head a one who know unutterable secret. be it possible that dick should turn his thought from her work and his own and descend to the degradation of suzanne and the conscript. he could not. the rise nod it head and one leaf therewith. it look like a naughty little devil scratch it ear. 
dick could not because think maisie he be mine mine mine. he say he be. i m sure i don t care what he doe. it will only spoil his work if he doe. and it will spoil mine too. 
the rise continue to nod in the futile way peculiar to flower. there be no earthly reason why dick should not disport himself a he choose except that he be call by providence which be maisie to assist maisie in her work. and her work be the preparation of picture that go sometimes to english provincial exhibition a the notice in the scrap book prove and that be invariably reject by the salon when kami be plague into allow her to send them up. her work in the future it seem would be the preparation of picture on exactly similar line which would be reject in exactly the same way the red haired girl thresh distressfully across the sheet. it s too hot to sleep she moan. and the interruption jar. 
exactly the same way. then she would divide her year between the little studio in england and kami s big studio at vitry sur marne. no she would go to another master who should force her into the success that be her right if patient toil and desperate endeavour give one a right to anything. dick have tell her that he have work ten year to understand his craft. she have work ten year and ten year be nothing. dick have say that ten year be nothing but that be in regard to herself only. he have say this very man who could not find time to write that he would wait ten year for her and that she be bind to come back to him sooner or late. he have say this in the absurd letter about sunstroke and diphtheria. and then he have stop write. he be wander up and down moonlit street kiss cook. she would like to lecture him now not in her nightgown of course but properly dress severely and from a height. yet if he be kiss other girl he certainly would not care whether she lecture him or not. he would laugh at her. very good. 
she would go back to her studio and prepare picture that go etc. etc. 
the mill wheel of think swing round slowly that no section of it might be slur over and the red haired girl toss and turn behind her. 
maisie put her chin in her hand and decide that there could be no doubt whatever of the villainy of dick. to justify herself she begin unwomanly to weigh the evidence. there be a boy and he have say he love her. and he kiss her kiss her on the cheek by a yellow sea poppy that nod it head exactly like the madden dry rise in the garden. then there be an interval and men have tell her that they love her just when she be busy with her work. then the boy come back and at their very second meet have tell her that he love her. then he have but there be no end to the thing he have do. he have give her his time and his power. he have speak to her of art housekeep technique teacup the abuse of pickle a a stimulant that be rude sable hair brush he have give her the best in her stock she use them daily. he have give her advice that she profit by and now and again a look. such a look. the look of a beat hound wait for the word to crawl to his mistress s foot. in return she have give him nothing whatever except here she brush her mouth against the open work sleeve of her nightgown the privilege of kiss her once. and on the mouth too. disgraceful. be that not enough and more than enough. and if it be not have he not cancel the debt by not write and probably kiss other girl. maisie you ll catch a chill. do go and lie down say the weary voice of her companion. i can t sleep a wink with you at the window. 
maisie shrug her shoulder and do not answer. she be reflect on the meanness of dick and on other meanness with which he have nothing to do. the moonlight would not let her sleep. it lay on the skylight of the studio across the road in cold silver. she star at it intently and her thought begin to slide one into the other. the shadow of the big bell handle in the wall grow short lengthen again and fade out a the moon go down behind the pasture and a hare come limp home across the road. then the dawn wind wash through the upland grass and bring coolness with it and the cattle low by the drought shrink river. maisie s head fell forward on the window sill and the tangle of black hair cover her arm. 
maisie wake up. you ll catch a chill. 
yes dear. yes dear. she stagger to her bed like a weary child and a she bury her face in the pillow she mutter i think i think but he ought to have write. 
day bring the routine of the studio the smell of paint and turpentine and the monotone wisdom of kami who be a leaden artist but a golden teacher if the pupil be only in sympathy with him. maisie be not in sympathy that day and she wait impatiently for the end of the work. 
she know when it be come. for kami would gather his black alpaca coat into a bunch behind him and with fade flue eye that saw neither pupil nor canvas look back into the past to recall the history of one binat. you have all do not so badly he would say. but you shall remember that it be not enough to have the method and the art and the power nor even that which be touch but you shall have also the conviction that nail the work to the wall. of the so many i teach here the student would begin to unfix draw pin or get their tube together the very so many that i have teach the best be binat. all that come of the study and the work and the knowledge be to him even when he come. after he leave me he should have do all that could be do with the colour the form and the knowledge. only he have not the conviction. so today i hear no more of binat the best of my pupil and that be long ago. so today too you will be glad to hear no more of me. continuez mademoiselle and above all with conviction. 
he go into the garden to smoke and mourn over the lose binat a the pupil disperse to their several cottage or loiter in the studio to make plan for the cool of the afternoon. 
maisie look at her very unhappy melancolia restrain a desire to grimace before it and be hurry across the road to write a letter to dick when she be aware of a large man on a white troop horse. how torpenhow have manage in the course of twenty hour to find his way to the heart of the cavalry officer in quarter at vitry sur marne to discus with them the certainty of a glorious revenge for france to reduce the colonel to tear of pure affability and to borrow the best horse in the squadron for the journey to kami s studio be a mystery that only special correspondent can unravel. 
i beg your pardon say he. it seem an absurd question to ask but the fact be that i don t know her by any other name. be there any young lady here that be call maisie. 
i be maisie be the answer from the depth of a great sun hat. 
i ought to introduce myself he say a the horse caper in the blind white dust. my name be torpenhow. dick heldar be my best friend and and the fact be that he ha go blind. 
blind. say maisie stupidly. he can t be blind. 
he ha be stone blind for nearly two month. 
maisie lift up her face and it be pearly white. no. no. not blind. i win t have him blind. 
would you care to see for yourself. say torpenhow. 
now at once. 
oh no. the paris train doesn t go through this place till tonight. there will be ample time. 
do mr. heldar send you to me. 
certainly not. dick wouldn t do that sort of thing. he s sit in his studio turn over some letter that he can t read because he s blind. 
there be a sound of choke from the sun hat. maisie bow her head and go into the cottage where the red haired girl be on a sofa complain of a headache. 
dick s blind. say maisie take her breath quickly a she steady herself against a chair back. my dick s blind. 
what. the girl be on the sofa no long. 
a man ha come from england to tell me. he hasn t write to me for six week. 
be you go to him. 
i must think. 
think. i should go back to london and see him and i should kiss his eye and kiss them and kiss them until they get well again. if you don t go i shall. oh what be i talk about. you wicked little idiot. go to him at once. go. 
torpenhow s neck be blister but he preserve a smile of infinite patience a maisie s appear bareheaded in the sunshine. 
i be come say she her eye on the grind. 
you will be at vitry station then at seven this even. this be an order deliver by one who be use to be obey. maisie say nothing but she felt grateful that there be no chance of dispute with this big man who take everything for grant and manage a squeal horse with one hand. she return to the red haired girl who be weep bitterly and between tear kiss very few of those menthol pack and an interview with kami the sultry afternoon wear away. 
think might come afterwards. her present duty be to go to dick dick who own the wondrous friend and sit in the dark play with her unopened letter. 
but what will you do she say to her companion. 
i. oh i shall stay here and finish your melancolia she say smile pitifully. write to me afterwards. 
that night there run a legend through vitry sur marne of a mad englishman doubtless suffer from sunstroke who have drink all the officer of the garrison under the table have borrow a horse from the line and have then and there elope after the english custom with one of those more mad english girl who draw picture down there under the care of that good monsieur kami. 
they be very droll say suzanne to the conscript in the moonlight by the studio wall. she walk always with those big eye that saw nothing and yet she kiss me on both cheek a though she be my sister and give me see ten franc. 
the conscript levy a contribution on both gift. for he pride himself on be a good soldier. 
torpenhow speak very little to maisie during the journey to calais. but he be careful to attend to all her want to get her a compartment entirely to herself and to leave her alone. he be amaze of the ease with which the matter have be accomplish. 
the safe thing would be to let her think thing out. by dick s show when he be off his head she must have order him about very thoroughly. wonder how she like be under order. 
maisie never tell. she sit in the empty compartment often with her eye shut that she might realise the sensation of blindness. it be an order that she should return to london swiftly and she find herself at last almost begin to enjoy the situation. this be good than look after luggage and a red haired friend who never take any interest in her surround. but there appear to be a feel in the air that she maisie of all people be in disgrace. therefore she justify her conduct to herself with great success till torpenhow come up to her on the steamer and without preface begin to tell the story of dick s blindness suppress a few detail but dwell at length on the misery of delirium. he stop before he reach the end a though he have lose interest in the subject and go forward to smoke. maisie be furious with him and with herself. 
she be hurry on from dover to london almost before she could ask for breakfast and she be past any feel of indignation now be bid curtly to wait in a hall at the foot of some lead cover stair while torpenhow go up to make inquiry. again the knowledge that she be be treat like a naughty little girl make her pale cheek flame. it be all dick s fault for be so stupid a to go blind. 
torpenhow lead her up to a shut door which he open very softly. dick be sit by the window with his chin on his chest. there be three envelope in his hand and he turn them over and over. the big man who give order be no long by her side and the studio door snap behind her. 
dick thrust the letter into his pocket a he hear the sound. hullo torp. be that you. i ve be so lonely. 
his voice have take the peculiar flatness of the blind. maisie press herself up into a corner of the room. her heart be beat furiously and she put one hand on her breast to keep it quiet. dick be star directly at her and she realise for the first time that he be blind. 
shut her eye in a rail way carriage to open them when she please be child s play. this man be blind though his eye be wide open. 
torp be that you. they say you be come. dick look puzzle and a little irritate at the silence. 
no. it s only me be the answer in a strain little whisper. maisie could hardly move her lip. 
h m. say dick composedly without move. this be a new phenomenon. darkness i m get use to. but i object to hear voice. 
be he mad then a well a blind that he talk to himself. maisie s heart beat more wildly and she breathe in gasp. dick rise and begin to feel his way across the room touch each table and chair a he pass. once he catch his foot on a rug and swear drop on his knee to feel what the obstruction might be. maisie remember him walk in the park a though all the earth belong to him tramp up and down her studio two month ago and fly up the gangway of the channel steamer. the beat of her heart be make her sick and dick be come near guide by the sound of her breathe. she put out a hand mechanically to ward him off or to draw him to herself she do not know which. it touch his chest and he step back a though he have be shoot. 
it s maisie. say he with a dry sob. what be you do here. 
i come i come to see you please. 
dick s lip close firmly. 
win t you sit down then. you see i ve have some bother with my eye and. 
i know. i know. why didn t you tell me. 
i couldn t write. 
you might have tell mr. torpenhow. 
what ha he to do with my affair. 
he he bring me from vitry sur marne. he think i ought to see you. 
why what ha happen. can i do anything for you. no i can t. i forget. 
oh dick i m so sorry. i ve come to tell you and let me take you back to your chair. 
don t. i m not a child. you only do that out of pity. i never mean to tell you anything about it. i m no good now. i m down and do for. let me alone. 
he grope back to his chair his chest labour a he sit down. 
maisie watch him and the fear go out of her heart to be follow by a very bitter shame. he have speak a truth that have be hide from the girl through every step of the impetuous flight to london. for he be indeed down and do for masterful no long but rather a little abject. neither an artist strong than she nor a man to be look up to only some blind one that sit in a chair and seem on the point of cry. she be immensely and unfeignedly sorry for him more sorry than she have ever be for any one in her life but not sorry enough to deny his word. 
so she stand still and felt ashamed and a little hurt because she have honestly intend that her journey should end triumphantly. and now she be only fill with pity most startlingly distinct from love. 
well. say dick his face steadily turn away. i never mean to worry you any more. what s the matter. 
he be conscious that maisie be catch her breath but be a unprepared a herself for the torrent of emotion that follow. she have drop into a chair and be sob with her face hide in her hand. 
i can t i can t. she cry desperately. indeed i can t. it isn t my fault. i m so sorry. oh dickie i m so sorry. 
dick s shoulder straighten again for the word lash like a whip. 
still the sob continue. it be not good to realise that you have fail in the hour of trial or flinch before the mere possibility of make sacrifice. 
i do despise myself indeed i do. but i can t. oh dickie you wouldn t ask me would you. wail maisie. 
she look up for a minute and by chance it happen that dick s eye fell on hers. the unshaven face be very white and set and the lip be try to force themselves into a smile. but it be the wear out eye that maisie fear. her dick have go blind and leave in his place some one that she could hardly recognise till he speak. 
who be ask you to do anything maisie. i tell you how it would be. what s the use of worry. for pity s sake don t cry like that. it isn t worth it. 
you don t know how i hate myself. oh dick help me help me. the passion of tear have grow beyond her control and be begin to alarm the man. he stumble forward and put his arm round her and her head fell on his shoulder. 
hush dear hush. don t cry. you re quite right and you ve nothing to reproach yourself with you never have. you re only a little upset by the journey and i don t suppose you ve have any breakfast. what a brute torp be to bring you over. 
i want to come. i do indeed she protest. 
very well. and now you ve come and see and i m immensely grateful. when you re good you shall go away and get something to eat. what sort of a passage do you have come over. 
maisie be cry more subduedly for the first time in her life glad that she have something to lean against. dick pat her on the shoulder tenderly but clumsily for he be not quite sure where her shoulder might be. 
she draw herself out of his arm at last and wait tremble and most unhappy. he have felt his way to the window to put the width of the room between them and to quiet a little the tumult in his heart. 
be you good now. he say. 
yes but don t you hate me. 
i hate you. my god. i. 
isn t isn t there anything i could do for you then. i ll stay here in england to do it if you like. perhaps i could come and see you sometimes. 
i think not dear. it would be kind not to see me any more please. i don t want to seem rude but don t you think perhaps you have almost good go now. 
he be conscious that he could not bear himself a a man if the strain continue much long. 
i don t deserve anything else. i ll go dick. oh i m so miserable. 
nonsense. you ve nothing to worry about. i d tell you if you have. wait a moment dear. i ve get something to give you first. i mean it for you ever since this little trouble begin. it s my melancolia. she be a beauty when i last saw her. you can keep her for me and if ever you re poor you can sell her. she s worth a few hundred at any state of the market. he grope among his canvas. she s frame in black. be this a black frame that i have my hand on. there she be. what do you think of her. 
he turn a scar formless muddle of paint towards maisie and the eye strain a though they would catch her wonder and surprise. one thing and one thing only could she do for him. 
well. 
the voice be full and more round because the man know he be speak of his best work. maisie look at the blur and a lunatic desire to laugh catch her by the throat. but for dick s sake whatever this mad blankness might mean she must make no sign. her voice choke with hard hold tear a she answer still gaze at the wreck oh dick it be good. 
he hear the little hysterical gulp and take it for tribute. win t you have it then. i ll send it over to your house if you will. 
i. oh yes thank you. ha. ha. if she do not fly at once the laughter that be bad than tear would kill her. she turn and run choke and blind down the staircase that be empty of life to take refuge in a cab and go to her house across the park. there she sit down in the dismantle draw room and think of dick in his blindness useless till the end of life and of herself in her own eye. behind the sorrow the shame and the humiliation lay fear of the cold wrath of the red haired girl when maisie should return. maisie have never fear her companion before. not until she find herself say well he never ask me do she realise her scorn of herself. and that be the end of maisie. * * * * * *. 
for dick be reserve more search torment. he could not realise at first that maisie whom he have order to go have leave him without a word of farewell. he be savagely angry against torpenhow who have bring upon him this humiliation and trouble his miserable peace. then his dark hour come and he be alone with himself and his desire to get what help he could from the darkness. the queen could do no wrong but in follow the right so far a it serve her work she have wound her one subject more than his own brain would let him know. 
it s all i have and i ve lose it he say a soon a the misery permit clear think. and torp will think that he ha be so infernally clever that i shan t have the heart to tell him. i must think this out quietly. 
hullo. say torpenhow enter the studio after dick have enjoy two hour of think. i m back. be you feel any good. 
torp i don t know what to say. come here. dick cough huskily wonder indeed what he should say and how to say it temperately. 
what s the need for say anything. get up and tramp. torpenhow be perfectly satisfy. 
they walk up and down a of custom torpenhow s hand on dick s shoulder and dick bury in his own thought. 
how in the world do you find it all out. say dick at last. 
you shouldn t go off your head if you want to keep secret dickie. it be absolutely impertinent on my part. but if you d see me rocket about on a half train french troop horse under a blaze sun you d have laugh. there will be a charivari in my room tonight. seven other devil. 
i know the row in the southern soudan. i surprise their council the other day and it make me unhappy. have you fix your flint to go. who d you work for. 
haven t sign any contract yet. i want to see how your business would turn out. 
would you have stay with me then if thing have go wrong. he put his question cautiously. 
don t ask me too much. i m only a man. 
you ve try to be an angel very successfully. 
oh ye e. well do you attend the function tonight. we shall be half screw before the morning. all the men believe the war s a certainty. 
i don t think i will old man if it s all the same to you. i ll stay quiet here. 
and meditate. i don t blame you. you observe a good time if ever a man do. 
that night there be a tumult on the stair. the correspondent pour in from theatre dinner and music hall to torpenhow s room that they might discus their plan of campaign in the event of military operation become a certainty. torpenhow the keneu and the nilghai have bid all the men they have work with to the orgy. and mr. beeton the housekeeper declare that never before in his checker experience have he see quite such a fancy lot of gentleman. they wake the chamber with shouting and song. and the elder men be quite a bad a the young. for the chance of war be in front of them and all know what those mean. 
sit in his own room a little perplex by the noise across the land dick suddenly begin to laugh to himself. 
when one come to think of it the situation be intensely comic. maisie s quite right poor little thing. i didn t know she could cry like that before. but now i know what torp think i m sure he d be quite fool enough to stay at home and try to console me if he know. besides it isn t nice to own that you ve be throw over like a break chair. i must carry this business through alone a usual. if there isn t a war and torp find out i shall look foolish that s all. if there be a way i mustn t interfere with another man s chance. business be business and i want to be alone i want to be alone. what a row they re make. 
somebody hammer at the studio door. 
come out and frolic dickie say the nilghai. 
i should like to but i can t. i m not feel frolicsome. 
then i ll tell the boy and they ll drag you like a badger. 
please not old man. on my word i d sooner be leave alone just now. 
very good. can we send anything in to you. fizz for instance. cassavetti be begin to sing song of the sunny south already. 
for one minute dick consider the proposition seriously. 
no thank i ve a headache already. 
virtuous child. that s the effect of emotion on the young. all my congratulation dick. i also be concern in the conspiracy for your welfare. 
go to the devil oh send binkie in here. 
the little dog enter on elastic foot riotous from have be make much of all the even. he have help to sing the chorus. but scarcely inside the studio he realise that this be no place for tail wag and settle himself on dick s lap till it be bedtime. then he go to bed with dick who count every hour a it strike and rise in the morning with a painfully clear head to receive torpenhow s more formal congratulation and a particular account of the last night s revel. 
you aren t look very happy for a newly accept man say torpenhow. 
never mind that it s my own affair and i m all right. do you really go. 
yes. with the old central southern a usual. they wire and i accept on good term than before. 
when do you start. 
the day after tomorrow for brindisi. 
thank god. dick speak from the bottom of his heart. 
well that s not a pretty way of say you re glad to get rid of me. but men in your condition be allow to be selfish. 
i didn t mean that. will you get a hundred pound cash for me before you leave. 
that s a slender amount for housekeep isn t it. 
oh it s only for marriage expense. 
torpenhow bring him the money count it out in five and ten and carefully put it away in the write table. 
now i suppose i shall have to listen to his raving about his girl until i go. heaven send u patience with a man in love. he say to himself. 
but never a word do dick say of maisie or marriage. he hang in the doorway of torpenhow s room when the latter be pack and ask innumerable question about the come campaign till torpenhow begin to feel annoy. 
you re a secretive animal dickie and you consume your own smoke don t you. he say on the last even. 
i i suppose so. by the way how long do you think this war will last. 
day week or month. one can never tell. it may go on for year. 
i wish i be go. 
good heaven. you re the most unaccountable creature. hasn t it occur to you that you re go to be marry thank to me. 
of course yes. i m go to be marry so i be. go to be marry. i m awfully grateful to you. haven t i tell you that. 
you might be go to be hang by the look of you say torpenhow. 
and the next day torpenhow bid him good bye and leave him to the loneliness he have so much desire. 
chapter xiv. 
yet at the last ere our spearmen have find him yet at the last ere a sword thrust could save yet at the last with his master around him he of the faith speak a master to slave. yet at the last tho the kafir have maim him break by bondage and wreck by the reiver yet at the last tho the darkness have claim him he call upon allah and die a believer. kizzilbashi. 
beg your pardon mr. heldar but but isn tn othin go to happen. say mr. beeton. 
no. dick have just wake to another morning of blank despair and his temper be of the short. 
tain t my regular business o course sir. and what i say be mind your own business and let other people mind theirs. but just before mr. torpenhow go away he give me to understand like that you might be move into a house of your own so to speak a sort of house with room upstairs and downstairs where you d be good attend to though i try to act just by all our tenant. don t i. 
ah. that must have be a mad house. i shan t trouble you to take me there yet. get me my breakfast please and leave me alone. 
i hope i haven t do anything wrong sir but you know i hope that a far a a man can i try to do the proper thing by all the gentleman in chamber and more particular those whose lot be hard such a you for instance mr. heldar. you like soft roe bloater don t you. soft roe bloater be scarce than hard roe but what i say be never mind a little extra trouble so long a you give satisfaction to the tenant. 
mr. beeton withdraw and leave dick to himself. torpenhow have be long away. there be no more riot in the chamber and dick have settle down to his new life which he be weak enough to consider nothing good than death. 
it be hard to live alone in the dark confuse the day and night. drop to sleep through sheer weariness at mid day and rise restless in the chill of the dawn. at first dick on his awakening would grope along the corridor of the chamber till he hear some one snore. then he would know that the day have not yet come and return wearily to his bedroom. 
late he learn not to stir till there be a noise and movement in the house and mr. beeton advise him to get up. once dress and dress now that torpenhow be away be a lengthy business because collar tie and the like hide themselves in far corner of the room and search mean head beat against chair and trunk once dress there be nothing whatever to do except to sit still and brood till the three daily meal come. century separate breakfast from lunch and lunch from dinner and though a man pray for hundred of year that his mind might be take from him god would never hear. rather the mind be quicken and the revolve thought grind against each other a millstone grind when there be no corn between. and yet the brain would not wear out and give him rest. it continue to think at length with imagery and all manner of reminiscence. it recall maisie and past success reckless travel by land and sea the glory of do work and feel that it be good and suggest all that might have happen have the eye only be faithful to their duty. when think cease through sheer weariness there pour into dick s soul tide on tide of overwhelm purposeless fear dread of starvation always terror l the unseen ceiling should crush down upon him fear of fire in the chamber and a louse s death in red flame and agony of fierce horror that have nothing to do with any fear of death. then dick bow his head and clutch the arm of his chair fight with his sweat self till the tinkle of plate tell him that something to eat be be set before him. 
mr. beeton would bring the meal when he have time to spare and dick learn to hang upon his speech which deal with badly fit gas plug waste pipe out of repair little trick for drive picture nail into wall and the sin of the charwoman or the housemaid. in the lack of good thing the small gossip of a servant hall become immensely interest and the screw of a washer on a tap an event to be talk over for day. 
once or twice a week too mr. beeton would take dick out with him when he go market in the morning to haggle with tradesman over fish lamp wick mustard tapioca and so forth while dick rest his weight first on one foot and then on the other and play aimlessly with the tin and string ball on the counter. then they would perhaps meet one of mr. beeton s friend and dick stand aside a little would hold his peace till mr. beeton be will to go on again. 
the life do not increase his self respect. he abandon shave a a dangerous exercise and be shave in a barber s shop mean exposure of his infirmity. he could not see that his clothe be properly brush and since he have never take any care of his personal appearance he become every know variety of sloven. a blind man cannot deal with cleanliness till he ha be some month use to the darkness. if he demand attendance and grow angry at the want of it he must assert himself and stand upright. then the mean menial can see that he be blind and therefore of no consequence. a wise man will keep his eye on the floor and sit still. for amusement he may pick coal lump by lump out of the scuttle with the tongs and pile it in a little heap in the fender keep count of the lump which must all be put back again one by one and very carefully. he may set himself sum if he care to work them out. he may talk to himself or to the cat if she choose to visit him. and if his trade ha be that of an artist he may sketch in the air with his forefinger. but that be too much like draw a pig with the eye shut. he may go to his bookshelf and count his book range them in order of their size. or to his wardrobe and count his shirt lay them in pile of two or three on the bed a they suffer from fray cuff or lose button. 
even this entertainment weary after a time. and all the time be very very long. 
dick be allow to sort a tool chest where mr. beeton keep hammer tap and nut length of gas pipe oil bottle and string. 
if i don t have everything just where i know where to look for it why then i can t find anything when i do want it. you ve no idea sir the amount of little thing that these chamber us up say mr. beeton. 
fumble at the handle of the door a he go out. it s hard on you sir i do think it s hard on you. ain t you go to do anything sir. 
i ll pay my rent and mess. isn t that enough. 
i wasn t doubt for a moment that you couldn t pay your way sir. but i ave often say to my wife it s ard on im because it isn t a if he be an old man nor yet a middle age one but quite a young gentleman. that s where it come so ard. 
i suppose so say dick absently. this particular nerve through long batter have cease to feel much. 
i be think continue mr. beeton still make a if to go that you might like to hear my boy alf read you the paper sometimes of an even. he do read beautiful see he s only nine. 
i should be very grateful say dick. only let me make it worth his while. 
we wasn t think of that sir but of course it s in your own ands. but only to ear alf sing a boy s best friend be be mother. ah. 
i ll hear him sing that too. let him come this even with the newspaper. 
alf be not a nice child be puff up with many school board certificate for good conduct and inordinately proud of his sing. mr. beeton remain beam while the child wail his way through a song of some eight eight line verse in the usual whine of a young cockney and after compliment leave him to read dick the foreign telegram. ten minute late alf return to his parent rather pale and scar. 
e say e couldn t stand it no more he explain. 
he never say you read badly alf. mr. beeton speak. 
no. e say i read beautiful. say e never eard any one read like that but e say e couldn t abide the stuff in the paper. 
p rap he s lose some money in the stock. be you readin him about stock alf. 
no. it be all about fightin out there where the soldier be go a great long piece with all the line close together and very hard word in it. e give me arf a crown because i read so well. and e say the next time there s anything e want read e ll send for me. 
that s good hear but i do think for all the half crown put it into the kick donkey money box alf and let me see you do it he might have keep you long. why he couldn t have begin to understand how beautiful you read. 
he s best leave to hisself gentleman always be when they re downhearted say mr. beeton. 
alf s rigorously limit power of comprehend torpenhow s special correspondence have wake the devil of unrest in dick. he could hear through the boy s nasal chant the camel grunt in the square behind the soldier outside suakin. could hear the men swear and chaff across the cook pot and could smell the acrid wood smoke a it drift over camp before the wind of the desert. 
that night he pray to god that his mind might be take from him offer for proof that he be worthy of this favour the fact that he have not shoot himself long ago. that prayer be not answer and indeed dick know in his heart of heart that only a linger sense of humour and no special virtue have keep him alive. suicide he have persuade himself would be a ludicrous insult to the gravity of the situation a well a a weak kneed confession of fear. 
just for the fun of the thing he say to the cat who have take binkie s place in his establishment i should like to know how long this be go to last. i can live for a year on the hundred pound torp cash for me. i must have two or three thousand at least in the bank twenty or thirty year more provide for that be to say. then i fall back on my hundred and twenty a year which will be more by that time. let s consider. 
twenty five thirty five a man s in his prime then they say forty five a middle age man just enter politics fifty five die at the comparatively early age of fifty five accord to the newspaper. bah. how these christian funk death. sixty five we re only get on in year. seventy five be just possible though. great hell cat o. fifty year more of solitary confinement in the dark. you ll die and beeton will die and torp will die and mai everybody else will die but i shall be alive and kick with nothing to do. i m very sorry for myself. i should like some one else to be sorry for me. evidently i m not go mad before i die but the pain s just a bad a ever. some day when you re vivisect cat o. they ll tie you down on a little table and cut you open but don t be afraid. they ll take precious good care that you don t die. you ll live and you ll be very sorry then that you weren t sorry for me. perhaps torp will come back or. i wish i could go to torp and the nilghai even though i be in their way. 
pussy leave the room before the speech be end and alf a he enter find dick address the empty hearth rug. 
there s a letter for you sir he say. perhaps you d like me to read it. 
lend it to me for a minute and i ll tell you. 
the outstretched hand shake just a little and the voice be not over steady. it be within the limit of human possibility that that be no letter from maisie. he know the heft of three close envelope only too well. it be a foolish hope that the girl should write to him for he do not realise that there be a wrong which admit of no reparation though the evildoer may with tear and the heart s best love strive to mend all. it be best to forget that wrong whether it be cause or endure since it be a remediless a bad work once put forward. 
read it then say dick and alf begin intone accord to the rule of the board school i could have give you love i could have give you loyalty such a you never dream of. do you suppose i care what you be. but you choose to whistle everything down the wind for nothing. my only excuse for you be that you be so young. that s all he say return the paper to be drop into the fire. 
what be in the letter. ask mr. beeton when alf return. 
i don t know. i think it be a circular or a tract about not whistlin at everything when you re young. 
i must have step on something when i be alive and walk about and it ha bounce up and hit me. god help it whatever it be unless it be all a joke. but i don t know any one who d take the trouble to play a joke on me love and loyalty for nothing. it sound tempt enough. i wonder whether i have lose anything really. 
dick consider for a long time but could not remember when or how he have put himself in the way of win these trifle at a woman s hand. 
still the letter a touch on matter that he prefer not to think about sting him into a fit of frenzy that last for a day and night. when his heart be so full of despair that it would hold no more body and soul together seem to be drop without check through the darkness. 
then come fear of darkness and desperate attempt to reach the light again. but there be no light to be reach. when that agony have leave him sweat and breathless the downward flight would recommence till the gather torture of it spur him into another fight a hopeless a the first. follow some few minute of sleep in which he dream that he saw. then the procession of event would repeat itself till he be utterly wear out and the brain take up it everlasting consideration of maisie and might have beens. 
at the end of everything mr. beeton come to his room and volunteer to take him out. not market this time but we ll go into the park if you like. 
be damn if i do quoth dick. keep to the street and walk up and down. i like to hear the people round me. 
this be not altogether true. the blind in the first stage of their infirmity dislike those who can move with a free stride and unlifted arm but dick have no earthly desire to go to the park. once and only once since maisie have shut her door he have go there under alf s charge. alf forget him and fish for minnow in the serpentine with some companion. after half an hour s wait dick almost weep with rage and wrath catch a passer by who introduce him to a friendly policeman who lead him to a four wheeler opposite the albert hall. he never tell mr. beeton of alf s forgetfulness but. this be not the manner in which he be use to walk the park aforetime. 
what street would you like to walk down then. say mr. beeton sympathetically. his own idea of a riotous holiday mean picnic on the grass of green park with his family and half a dozen paper bag full of food. 
keep to the river say dick and they keep to the river and the rush of it be in his ear till they come to blackfriar bridge and strike thence on to the waterloo road mr. beeton explain the beauty of the scenery a he go on. 
and walk on the other side of the pavement say he unless i m much mistake be the young woman that use to come to your room to be draw. i never forget a face and i never remember a name except pay tenant o course. 
stop her say dick. it s bessie break. tell her i d like to speak to her again. quick man. 
mr. beeton cross the road under the nose of the omnibus and arrest bessie then on her way northward. she recognise him a the man in authority who use to glare at her when she pass up dick s staircase and her first impulse be to run. 
wasn t you mr. heldar s model. say mr. beeton plant himself in front of her. you be. he s on the other side of the road and he d like to see you. 
why. say bessie faintly. she remember indeed have never for long forget an affair connect with a newly finish picture. 
because he ha ask me to do so and because he s most particular blind. 
drink. 
no. orspital blind. he can t see. that s him over there. 
dick be lean against the parapet of the bridge a mr. beeton point him out a stub beard bow creature wear a dirty magenta colour neckcloth outside an unbrushed coat. there be nothing to fear from such an one. even if he chase her bessie think he could not follow far. she cross over and dick s face light up. it be long since a woman of any kind have take the trouble to speak to him. 
i hope you re well mr. heldar. say bessie a little puzzle. mr. beeton stand by with the air of an ambassador and breathe responsibly. 
i m very well indeed and by jove. i m glad to see hear you i mean be. you never think it worth while to turn up and see u again after you get your money. i don t know why you should. be you go anywhere in particular just now. 
i be go for a walk say bessie. 
not the old business. dick speak under his breath. 
lor no. i pay my premium bessie be very proud of that word for a barmaid sleep in and i m at the bar now quite respectable. indeed i be. 
mr. beeton have no special reason to believe in the loftiness of human nature. therefore he dissolve himself like a mist and return to his gas plug without a word of apology. bessie watch the flight with a certain uneasiness. but so long a dick appear to be ignorant of the harm that have be do to him. 
it s hard work pull the beer handle she go on and they ve get one of them penny in the slot cash machine so if you get wrong by a penny at the end of the day but then i don t believe the machinery be right. do you. 
i ve only see it work. mr. beeton. 
he s go. 
i m afraid i must ask you to help me home then. i ll make it worth your while. you see. the sightless eye turn towards her and bessie saw. 
it isn t take you out of your way. he say hesitatingly. i can ask a policeman if it be. 
not at all. i come on at seven and i m off at four. that s easy hour. 
good god. but i m on all the time. i wish i have some work to do too. let s go home be. 
he turn and cannon into a man on the sidewalk recoil with an oath. bessie take his arm and say nothing a she have say nothing when he have order her to turn her face a little more to the light. they walk for some time in silence the girl steer him deftly through the crowd. 
and where s where s mr. torpenhow. she inquire at last. 
he ha go away to the desert. 
where s that. 
dick point to the right. east out of the mouth of the river say he. 
then west then south and then east again all along the under side of europe. then south again god know how far. the explanation do not enlighten bessie in the least but she hold her tongue and look to dick s patch till they come to the chamber. 
we ll have tea and muffin he say joyously. i can t tell you bessie how glad i be to find you again. what make you go away so suddenly. 
i didn t think you d want me any more she say embolden by his ignorance. 
i didn t a a matter of fact but afterwards at any rate i m glad you ve come. you know the stair. 
so bessie lead him home to his own place there be no one to hind and shut the door of the studio. 
what a mess. be her first word. all these thing haven t be look after for month and month. 
no only week be. you can t expect them to care. 
i don t know what you expect them to do. they ought to know what you ve pay them for. the dust s just awful. it s all over the easel. 
i don t use it much now. 
all over the picture and the floor and all over your coat. i d like to speak to them housemaid. 
ring for tea then. dick felt his way to the one chair he use by custom. 
bessie saw the action and a far a in her lay be touch. but there remain always a keen sense of new find superiority and it be in her voice when she speak. 
how long have you be like this. she say wrathfully a though the blindness be some fault of the housemaid. 
how. 
a you be. 
the day after you go away with the check almost a soon a my picture be finish. i hardly saw her alive. 
then they ve be cheat you ever since that s all. i know their nice little way. 
a woman may love one man and despise another but on general feminine principle she will do her best to save the man she despise from be defraud. her love one can look to himself but the other man be obviously an idiot need protection. 
i don t think mr. beeton cheat much say dick. bessie be flounce up and down the room and he be conscious of a keen sense of enjoyment a he hear the swish of her skirt and the light step between. 
tea and muffin she say shortly when the ring at the bell be answer. two teaspoonful and one over for the pot. i don t want the old teapot that be here when i use to come. it don t draw. get another. 
the housemaid go away scandalise and dick chuckle. then he begin to cough a bessie bang up and down the studio disturb the dust. 
what be you try to do. 
put thing straight. this be like unfurnished lodging. how could you let it go so. 
how could i help it. dust away. 
she dust furiously and in the midst of all the pother enter mr. beeton. her husband on his return have explain the situation wind up with the peculiarly felicitous proverb do unto others a you would be do by. she have descend to put into her place the person who demand muffin and an uncracked teapot a though she have a right to both. 
muffin ready yet. say be still dust. she be no long a drab of the street but a young lady who thank to dick s check have pay her premium and be entitle to pull beer handle with the best. be neatly dress in black she do not hesitate to face mr. beeton and there pass between the two woman certain regard that dick would have appreciate. the situation adjust itself by eye. bessie have win and mr. beeton return to cook muffin and make scathing remark about model hussy trollop and the like to her husband. 
there s nothing to be get of interfere with him liza he say. alf you go along into the street to play. when he isn t cross he s a kindly a kind but when he s cross he s the devil and all. we take too many little thing out of his room since he be blind to be that particular about what he doe. they ain t no object to a blind man of course but if it be to come into court we d get the sack. yes i do introduce him to that girl because i m a feelin man myself. 
much too feelin. mr. beeton slap the muffin into the dish and think of comely housemaid long since dismiss on suspicion. 
i ain t ashamed of it and it isn t for u to judge him hard so long a he pay quiet and regular a he do. i know how to manage young gentleman you know how to cook for them and what i say be let each stick to his own business and then there win t be any trouble. take them muffin down liza and be sure you have no word with that young woman. his lot be cruel hard and if he s cross he do swear bad than any one i ve ever serve. 
that s a little good say bessie sit down to the tea. you needn t wait thank you mr. beeton. 
i have no intention of do such i do assure you. 
bessie make no answer whatever. this she know be the way in which real lady rout their foe and when one be a barmaid at a first class public house one may become a real lady at ten minute notice. 
her eye fell on dick opposite her and she be both shock and displease. there be droppings of food all down the front of his coat. the mouth under the rag ill grow beard droop sullenly. the forehead be line and contract. and on the lean temple the hair be a dusty indeterminate colour that might or might not have be call gray. the utter misery and self abandonment of the man appeal to her and at the bottom of her heart lay the wicked feel that he be humble and bring low who have once humble her. 
oh. it be good to hear you move about say dick rub his hand. tell u all about your bar success bessie and the way you live now. 
never mind that. i m quite respectable a you d see by look at me. you don t seem to live too well. what make you go blind that sudden. why isn t there any one to look after you. 
dick be too thankful for the sound of her voice to resent the tone of it. 
i be cut across the head a long time ago and that ruin my eye. i don t suppose anybody think it worth while to look after me any more. why should they. and mr. beeton really doe everything i want. 
don t you know any gentleman and lady then while you be well. 
a few but i don t care to have them look at me. 
i suppose that s why you ve grow a beard. take it off it don t become you. 
good gracious child do you imagine that i think of what become of me these day. 
you ought. get that take off before i come here again. i suppose i can come can t i. 
i d be only too grateful if you do. i don t think i treat you very well in the old day. i use to make you angry. 
very angry you do. 
i m sorry for it then. come and see me when you can and a often a you can. god know there isn t a soul in the world to take that trouble except you and mr. beeton. 
a lot of trouble he s take and she too. this with a toss of the head. 
they ve let you do anyhow and they haven t do anything for you. i ve only to look and see that much. i ll come and i ll be glad to come but you must go and be shave and you must get some other clothe those one aren t fit to be see. 
i have heap somewhere he say helplessly. 
i know you have. tell mr. beeton to give you a new suit and i ll brush it and keep it clean. you may be a blind a a barn door mr. heldar but it doesn t excuse you look like a sweep. 
do i look like a sweep then. 
oh i m sorry for you. i m that sorry for you. she cry impulsively and take dick s hand. mechanically he lower his head a if to kiss she be the only woman who have take pity on him and he be not too proud for a little pity now. she stand up to go. 
nothing o that kind till you look more like a gentleman. it s quite easy when you get shave and some clothe. 
he could hear her draw on her glove and rise to say good bye. she pass behind him kiss him audaciously on the back of the neck and run away a swiftly a on the day when she have destroy the melancolia. 
to think of me kiss mr. heldar she say to herself after all he s do to me and all. well i m sorry for him and if he be shave he wouldn t be so bad to look at but. oh them beetons how shameful they ve treat him. i know beeton s wear his shirt on his back today just a well a if i d air it. tomorrow i ll see. i wonder if he ha much of his own. it might be worth more than the bar i wouldn t have to do any work and just a respectable a if no one know. 
dick be not grateful to bessie for her part gift. he be acutely conscious of it in the nape of his neck throughout the night but it seem among very many other thing to enforce the wisdom of get shave. 
he be shave accordingly in the morning and felt the good for it. a fresh suit of clothe white linen and the knowledge that some one in the world say that she take an interest in his personal appearance make him carry himself almost upright. for the brain be relieve for a while from think of maisie who under other circumstance might have give that kiss and a million others. 
let u consider say he after lunch. the girl can t care and it s a toss up whether she come again or not but if money can buy her to look after me she shall be buy. nobody else in the world would take the trouble and i can make it worth her while. she s a child of the gutter hold brevet rank a a barmaid. so she shall have everything she want if she ll only come and talk and look after me. he rub his newly shorn chin and begin to perplex himself with the think of her not come. i suppose i do look rather a sweep he go on. i have no reason to look otherwise. i know thing drop on my clothe but it didn t matter. it would be cruel if she didn t come. she must. maisie come once and that be enough for her. she be quite right. she have something to work for. this creature ha only beer handle to pull unless she ha delude some young man into keep company with her. fancy be cheat for the sake of a counter jumper. we re fall pretty low. 
something cry aloud within him. this will hurt more than anything that ha go before. it will recall and remind and suggest and tantalise and in the end drive you mad. 
i know it i know it. dick cry clench his hand despairingly. but good heaven. be a poor blind beggar never to get anything out of his life except three meal a day and a greasy waistcoat. i wish she d come. 
early in the afternoon time she come because there be no young man in her life just then and she think of material advantage which would allow her to be idle for the rest of her day. 
i shouldn t have know you she say approvingly. you look a you use to look a gentleman that be proud of himself. 
don t you think i deserve another kiss then. say dick flush a little. 
maybe but you win t get it yet. sit down and let s see what i can do for you. i m certain sure mr. beeton cheat you now that you can t go through the housekeep book every month. isn t that true. 
you d good come and housekeep for me then bessie. 
couldn t do it in these chamber you know that a well a i do. 
i know but we might go somewhere else if you think it worth your while. 
i d try to look after you anyhow. but i shouldn t care to have to work for both of u. this be tentative. 
dick laugh. 
do you remember where i use to keep my bank book. say he. torp take it to be balance just before he go away. look and see. 
it be generally under the tobacco jar. ah. 
well. 
oh. four thousand two hundred and ten pound nine shilling and a penny. oh my. 
you can have the penny. that s not bad for one year s work. be that and a hundred and twenty pound a year good enough. 
the idleness and the pretty clothe be almost within her reach now but she must by be housewifely show that she deserve them. 
yes. but you d have to move and if we take an inventory i think we d find that mr. beeton ha be prigging little thing out of the room here and there. they don t look a full a they use. 
never mind we ll let him have them. the only thing i m particularly anxious to take away be that picture i use you for when you use to swear at me. we ll pull out of this place be and get away a far a ever we can. 
oh yes she say uneasily. 
i don t know where i can go to get away from myself but i ll try and you shall have all the pretty frock that you care for. you ll like that. give me that kiss now be. ye god. it s good to put one s arm round a woman s waist again. 
then come the fulfilment of the prophecy within the brain. if his arm be thus round maisie s waist and a kiss have just be give and take between them why then. he press the girl more closely to himself because the pain whip him. she be wonder how to explain a little accident to the melancolia. at any rate if this man really desire the solace of her company and certainly he would relapse into his original slough if she withdraw it he would not be more than just a little vex. 
it would be delightful at least to see what would happen and by her teaching it be good for a man to stand in certain awe of his companion. 
she laugh nervously and slip out of his reach. 
i shouldn t worrit about that picture if i be you she begin in the hope of turn his attention. 
it s at the back of all my canvas somewhere. find it be. you know it a well a i do. 
i know but. 
but what. you ve wit enough to manage the sale of it to a dealer. woman haggle much good than men. it might be a matter of eight or nine hundred pound to to u. i simply didn t like to think about it for a long time. it be mix up with my life so. but we ll cover up our track and get rid of everything eh. make a fresh start from the begin be. 
then she begin to repent very much indeed because she know the value of money. still it be probable that the blind man be overestimate the value of his work. gentleman she know be absurdly particular about their thing. she giggle a a nervous housemaid giggle when she try to explain the breakage of a pipe. 
i m very sorry but you remember i be i be angry with you before mr. torpenhow go away. 
you be very angry child. and on my word i think you have some right to be. 
then i but aren t you sure mr. torpenhow didn t tell you. 
tell me what. good gracious what be you make such a fuss about when you might just a well be give me another kiss. 
he be begin to learn not for the first time in his experience that kiss be a cumulative poison. the more you get of it the more you want. 
bessie give the kiss promptly whisper a she do so i be so angry i rub out that picture with the turpentine. you aren t angry be you. 
what. say that again. the man s hand have close on her wrist. 
i rub it out with turp and the knife falter bessie. i think you d only have to do it over again. you do do it over again didn t you. oh let go of my wrist. you re hurt me. 
isn t there anything leave of the thing. 
n nothing that look like anything. i m sorry i didn t know you d take on about it. i only mean to do it in fun. you aren t go to hit me. 
hit you. no. let s think. 
he do not relax his hold upon her wrist but stand star at the carpet. 
then he shake his head a a young steer shake it when the lash of the stock whip cross his nose warn him back to the path on to the shamble that he would escape. for week he have force himself not to think of the melancolia because she be a part of his dead life. with bessie s return and certain new prospect that have develop themselves the melancolia lovely in his imagination than she have ever be on canvas reappear. by her aid he might have procure more money wherewith to amuse be and to forget maisie a well a another taste of an almost forget success. now thank to a vicious little housemaid s folly there be nothing to look for not even the hope that he might some day take an abide interest in the housemaid. bad of all he have be make to appear ridiculous in maisie s eye. a woman will forgive the man who ha ruin her life s work so long a he give her love. a man may forgive those who ruin the love of his life but he will never forgive the destruction of his work. 
tck tck tck say dick between his teeth and then laugh softly. it s an omen bessie and a good many thing consider it serf me right for do what i have do. by jove. that account for maisie s run away. she must have think me perfectly mad small blame to her. the whole picture ruin isn t it so. what make you do it. 
because i be that angry. i m not angry now i m awful sorry. 
i wonder. it doesn t matter anyhow. i m to blame for make the mistake. 
what mistake. 
something you wouldn t understand dear. great heaven. to think that a little piece of dirt like you could throw me out of stride. dick be talk to himself a bessie try to shake off his grip on her wrist. 
i ain t a piece of dirt and you shouldn t call me so. i do it cause i hat you and i m only sorry now cause you re cause you re. 
exactly because i m blind. there s note like tact in little thing. 
bessie begin to sob. she do not like be shackle against her will. she be afraid of the blind face and the look upon it and be sorry too that her great revenge have only make dick laugh. 
don t cry he say and take her into his arm. you only do what you think right. 
i i ain t a little piece of dirt and if you say that i ll never come to you again. 
you don t know what you ve do to me. i m not angry indeed i m not. be quiet for a minute. 
bessie remain in his arm shrink. dick s first think be connect with maisie and it hurt him a white hot iron hurt an open sore. 
not for nothing be a man permit to ally himself to the wrong woman. 
the first pang the first sense of thing lose be but the prelude to the play for the very just providence who delight in cause pain ha decree that the agony shall return and that in the midst of keen pleasure. 
they know this pain equally who have forsake or be forsake by the love of their life and in their new wife arm be compel to realise it. 
it be good to remain alone and suffer only the misery of be alone so long a it be possible to find distraction in daily work. when that resource go the man be to be pity and leave alone. 
these thing and some others dick consider while he be hold bessie to his heart. 
though you mayn t know it he say raise his head the lord be a just and a terrible god be. with a very strong sense of humour. it serf me right how it serf me right. torp could understand it if he be here. he must have suffer something at your hand child but only for a minute or so. i save him. set that to my credit some one. 
let me go say be her face darken. let me go. 
all in good time. do you ever attend sunday school. 
never. let me go i tell you. you re make fun of me. 
indeed i m not. i m make fun of myself. thus. he save others himself he cannot save. it isn t exactly a school board text. he release her wrist but since he be between her and the door she could not escape. what an enormous amount of mischief one little woman can do. 
i m sorry. i m awful sorry about the picture. 
i m not. i m grateful to you for spoil it. what be we talk about before you mention the thing. 
about get away and money. me and you go away. 
of course. we will get away that be to say i will. 
and me. 
you shall have fifty whole pound for spoil a picture. 
then you win t. 
i m afraid not dear. think of fifty pound for pretty thing all to yourself. 
you say you couldn t do anything without me. 
that be true a little while ago. i m good now thank you. get me my hat. 
s pose i don t. 
beeton will and you ll lose fifty pound. that s all. get it. 
bessie curse under her breath. she have pity the man sincerely have kiss him with almost equal sincerity for he be not unhandsome. it please her to be in a way and for a time his protector and above all there be four thousand pound to be handle by some one. now through a slip of the tongue and a little feminine desire to give a little not too much pain she have lose the money the bless idleness and the pretty thing the companionship and the chance of look outwardly a respectable a a real lady. 
now fill me a pipe. tobacco doesn t taste but it doesn t matter and i ll think thing out. what s the day of the week be. 
tuesday. 
then thursday s mail day. what a fool what a blind fool i have be. twenty two pound cover my passage home again. allow ten for additional expense. we must put up at madam binat s for old time s sake. thirty two pound altogether. add a hundred for the cost of the last trip gad win t torp stare to see me. a hundred and thirty two leaf seventy eight for baksheesh i shall need it and to play with. what be you cry for be. it wasn t your fault child. it be mine altogether. oh you funny little opossum mop your eye and take me out. i want the pas book and the check book. stop a minute. four thousand pound at four per cent that s safe interest mean a hundred and sixty pound a year. one hundred and twenty pound a year also safe be two eighty and two hundred and eighty pound add to three hundred a year mean gild luxury for a single woman. be we ll go to the bank. 
rich by two hundred and ten pound store in his money belt dick cause bessie now thoroughly bewilder to hurry from the bank to the p. and o. office where he explain thing tersely. 
port say single first. cabin a close to the baggage hatch a possible. what ship s go. 
the colgong say the clerk. 
she s a wet little hooker. be it tilbury and a tender or galleon and the dock. 
galleon. twelve forty thursday. 
thank. change please. i can t see very well will you count it into my hand. 
if they all take their passage like that instead of talk about their trunk life would be worth something say the clerk to his neighbour who be try to explain to a harass mother of many that condense milk be just a good for babe at sea a daily dairy. be nineteen and unmarried he speak with conviction. 
we be now quoth dick a they return to the studio pat the place where his money belt cover ticket and money beyond the reach of man or devil or woman which be much more important. i ve have three little affair to carry through before thursday but i needn t ask you to help be. come here on thursday morning at nine. we ll breakfast and you shall take me down to galleon station. 
what be you go to do. 
go away of course. what should i stay for. 
but you can t look after yourself. 
i can do anything. i didn t realise it before but i can. i ve do a great deal already. resolution shall be treat to one kiss if bessie doesn t object. strangely enough bessie object and dick laugh. i suppose you re right. well come at nine the day after tomorrow and you ll get your money. 
shall i sure. 
i don t bilk and you win t know whether i do or not unless you come. oh but it s long and long to wait. good bye bessie send beeton here a you go out. 
the housekeeper come. 
what be all the fitting of my room worth. say dick imperiously. 
tisn t for me to say sir. some thing be very pretty and some be wear out dreadful. 
i m insure for two hundred and seventy. 
insurance policy be no criterion though i don t say. 
oh damn your longwindedness. you ve make your picking out of me and the other tenant. why you talk of retire and buy a public house the other day. give a straight answer to a straight question. 
fifty say mr. beeton without a moment s hesitation. 
double it. or i ll break up half my stick and burn the rest. 
he felt his way to a bookstand that support a pile of sketch book and wrench out one of the mahogany pillar. 
that s sinful sir say the housekeeper alarm. 
it s my own. one hundred or. 
one hundred it be. it ll cost me three and six to get that there pilaster mend. 
i think so. what an out and out swindler you must have be to spring that price at once. 
i hope i ve do nothing to dissatisfy any of the tenant least of all you sir. 
never mind that. get me the money tomorrow and see that all my clothe be pack in the little brown bullock trunk. i m go. 
but the quarter s notice. 
i ll pay forfeit. look after the pack and leave me alone. 
mr. beeton discuss this new departure with his wife who decide that bessie be at the bottom of it all. her husband take a more charitable view. 
it s very sudden but then he be always sudden in his way. listen to him now. 
there be a sound of chant from dick s room. 
we ll never come back any more boy we ll never come back no more. we ll go to the deuce on any excuse and never come back no more. oh say we re afloat or ashore boy oh say we re afloat or ashore. but we ll never come back any more boy we ll never come back no more. 
mr. beeton. mr. beeton. where the deuce be my pistol. 
quick he s go to shoot himself avin go mad. say mr. beeton. 
mr. beeton address dick soothingly but it be some time before the latter thresh up and down his bedroom could realise the intention of the promise to find everything tomorrow sir. 
oh you copper nose old fool you impotent academician. he shout at last. do you suppose i want to shoot myself. take the pistol in your silly shake hand then. if you touch it it will go off because it s load. it s among my campaign kit somewhere in the parcel at the bottom of the trunk. 
long ago dick have carefully possess himself of a forty pound weight field equipment construct by the knowledge of his own experience. it be this put away treasure that he be try to find and rehandle. mr. beeton whip the revolver out of it place on the top of the package and dick drive his hand among the khaki coat and breech the blue cloth leg band and the heavy flannel shirt double over a pair of swan neck spur. under these and the water bottle lay a sketch book and a pigskin case of stationery. 
these we don t want. you can have them mr. beeton. everything else i ll keep. pack em on the top right hand side of my trunk. when you ve do that come into the studio with your wife. i want you both. wait a minute. get me a pen and a sheet of notepaper. 
it be not an easy thing to write when you cannot see and dick have particular reason for wish that his work should be clear. so he begin follow his right hand with his leave. the badness of this write be because i be blind and cannot see my pen. h mph. even a lawyer can t mistake that. it must be sign i suppose but it needn t be witness. now an inch low why do i never learn to use a type writer. this be the last will and testament of me richard heldar. i be in sound bodily and mental health and there be no previous will to revoke. that s all right. damn the pen. whereabouts on the paper be i. i leave everything that i posse in the world include four thousand pound and two thousand seven hundred and twenty eight pound hold for me oh i can t get this straight. he tear off half the sheet and begin again with the caution about the handwrite. then. i leave all the money i posse in the world to here follow maisie s name and the name of the two bank that hold the money. 
it mayn t be quite regular but no one ha a shadow of a right to dispute it and i ve give maisie s address. come in mr. beeton. this be my signature. i want you and your wife to witness it. thank. tomorrow you must take me to the landlord and i ll pay forfeit for leave without notice and i ll lodge this paper with him in case anything happen while i m away. now we re go to light up the studio stave. stay with me and give me my paper a i want em. 
no one know until he ha try how fine a blaze a year s accumulation of bill letter and docket can make. dick stuff into the stave every document in the studio save only three unopened letter. destroy sketch book rough note book new and half finish canvas alike. 
what a lot of rubbish a tenant get about him if he stay long enough in one place to be sure say mr. beeton at last. 
he doe. be there anything more leave. dick felt round the wall. 
not a thing and the stave s nigh red hot. 
excellent and you ve lose about a thousand pound worth of sketch. ho. ho. quite a thousand pound worth if i can remember what i use to be. 
yes sir politely. mr. beeton be quite sure that dick have go mad otherwise he would have never part with his excellent furniture for a song. the canvas thing take up storage room and be much good out of the way. 
there remain only to leave the little will in safe hand. that could not be accomplish til tomorrow. dick grope about the floor pick up the last piece of paper assure himself again and again that there remain no write word or sign of his past life in drawer or desk and sit down before the stave till the fire die out and the contract iron crack in the silence of the night. 
chapter xv. 
with a heart of furious fancy whereof i be commander. with a burn spear and a horse of air to the wilderness i wander. 
with a knight of ghost and shadow i summon be to tourney ten league beyond the wide world s end methinks it be no journey. tom o bedlam s song. 
goodbye be. i promise you fifty. here s a hundred all that i get for my furniture from beeton. that will keep you in pretty frock for some time. you ve be a good little girl all thing consider but you ve give me and torpenhow a fair amount of trouble. 
give mr. torpenhow my love if you see him win t you. 
of course i will dear. now take me up the gang plank and into the cabin. once aboard the lugger and the maid be and i be free i mean. 
who ll look after you on this ship. 
the head steward if there s any use in money. the doctor when we come to port say if i know anything of p. and o. doctor. after that the lord will provide a he use to do. 
be find dick his cabin in the wild turmoil of a ship full of leavetakers and weep relative. then he kiss her and lay himself down in his bunk until the deck should be clear. he who have take so long to move about his own darken room well understand the geography of a ship and the necessity of see to his own comfort be a wine to him. 
before the screw begin to thrash the ship along the dock he have be introduce to the head steward have royally tip him secure a good place at table open out his baggage and settle himself down with joy in the cabin. it be scarcely necessary to feel his way a he move about for he know everything so well. then god be very kind. a deep sleep of weariness come upon him just a he would have think of maisie and he sleep till the steamer have clear the mouth of the thames and be lift to the pulse of the channel. 
the rattle of the engine the reek of oil and paint and a very familiar sound in the next cabin rouse him to his new inheritance. 
oh it s good to be alive again. he yawn stretch himself vigorously and go on deck to be tell that they be almost abreast of the light of brighton. this be no more open water than trafalgar square be a common. the free level begin at ushant. but none the le dick could feel the heal of the sea at work upon him already. a boisterous little cross swell swing the steamer disrespectfully by the nose. and one wave break far aft spatter the quarterdeck and the pile of new deck chair. he hear the foam fall with the clash of break glass be sting in the face by a cupful and sniff luxuriously felt his way to the smoke room by the wheel. there a strong breeze find him blow his cap off and leave him bareheaded in the doorway and the smoke room steward understand that he be a voyager of experience say that the weather would be stiff in the chop off the channel and more than half a gale in the bay. these thing fell a they be foretell and dick enjoy himself to the utmost. it be allowable and even necessary at sea to lay firm hold upon table stanchion and rope in move from place to place. on land the man who feel with his hand be patently blind. at sea even a blind man who be not sea sick can jest with the doctor over the weakness of his fellow. dick tell the doctor many tale and these be coin of more value than silver if properly handle smoke with him till unholy hour of the night and so win his short live regard that he promise dick a few hour of his time when they come to port say. 
and the sea roar or be still a the wind blow and the engine sing their song day and night and the sun grow strong day by day and tom the lascar barber shave dick of a morning under the open hatch grate where the cool wind blow and the awning be spread and the passenger make merry and at last they come to port say. 
take me say dick to the doctor to madame binat s if you know where that be. 
whew. say the doctor i do. there s not much to choose between em. but i suppose you re aware that that s one of the bad house in the place. they ll rob you to begin with and knife you late. 
not they. take me there and i can look after myself. 
so he be bring to madame binat s and fill his nostril with the well remember smell of the east that run without a change from the canal head to hong kong and his mouth with the villainous lingua franca of the levant. the heat smite him between the shoulder blade with the buffet of an old friend his foot slip on the sand and his coat sleeve be warm a new bake bread when he lift it to his nose. 
madame binat smile with the smile that know no astonishment when dick enter the drink shop which be one source of her gain. but for a little accident of complete darkness he could hardly realise that he have ever quit the old life that hum in his ear. somebody open a bottle of peculiarly strong schiedam. the smell remind dick of monsieur binat who by the way have speak of art and degradation. 
binat be dead. madame say a much when the doctor depart scandalise so far a a ship s doctor can be at the warmth of dick s reception. dick be delight at it. they remember me here after a year. they have forget me across the water by this time. madame i want a long talk with you when you re at liberty. it be good to be back again. 
in the even she set an iron top caf table out on the sand and dick and she sit by it while the house behind them fill with riot merriment oath and threat. the star come out and the light of the ship in the harbour twinkle by the head of the canal. 
yes. the war be good for trade my friend. but what dost thou do here. we have not forget thee. 
i be over there in england and i go blind. 
but there be the glory first. we hear of it here even here i and binat. and thou hast use the head of yellow tina she be still alive so often and so well that tina laugh when the paper arrive by the mail boat. it be always something that we here could recognise in the painting. and then there be always the glory and the money for thee. 
i be not poor i shall pay you well. 
not to me. thou hast pay for everything. under her breath mon dieu to be blind and so young. what horror. 
dick could not see her face with the pity on it or his own with the discolour hair at the temple. he do not feel the need of pity. he be too anxious to get to the front once more and explain his desire. 
and where. the canal be full of the english ship. sometimes they fire a they use to do when the war be here ten year ago. beyond cairo there be fight but how canst thou go there without a correspondent s passport. and in the desert there be always fight but that be impossible also say she. 
i must go to suakin. he know thank to alf s reading that torpenhow be at work with the column that be protect the construction of the suakin berber line. p. and o. steamer do not touch at that port and besides madame binat know everybody whose help or advice be worth anything. they be not respectable folk but they could cause thing to be accomplish which be much more important when there be work toward. 
but at suakin they be always fight. that desert breed men always and always more men. and they be so bold. why to suakin. 
my friend be there. 
thy friend. chtt. thy friend be death then. 
madame binat drop a fat arm on the table top fill dick s glass anew and look at him closely under the star. there be no need that he should bow his head in assent and say no. he be a man but if it should arrive. blame thou. 
i blame. she laugh shrilly. who be i that i should blame any one except those who try to cheat me over their consommations. but it be very terrible. 
i must go to suakin. think for me. a great deal ha change within the year and the men i know be not here. the egyptian lighthouse steamer go down the canal to suakin and the post boat but even then. 
do not think any long. i know and it be for me to think. thou shalt go thou shalt go and see thy friend. be wise. sit here until the house be a little quiet i must attend to my guest and afterwards go to bed. thou shalt go in truth thou shalt go. 
tomorrow. 
a soon a may be. she be talk a though he be a child. 
he sit at the table listen to the voice in the harbour and the street and wonder how soon the end would come till madame binat carry him off to bed and order him to sleep. the house shout and sing and dance and revel madame binat move through it with one eye on the liquor payment and the girl and the other on dick s interest. to this latter end she smile upon scowl and furtive turkish officer of fellah regiment and be more than kind to camel agent of no nationality whatever. 
in the early morning be then appropriately dress in a flame red silk ball dress with a front of tarnish gold embroidery and a necklace of plate glass diamond she make chocolate and carry it in to dick. 
it be only i and i be of discreet age eh. drink and eat the roll too. thus in france mother bring their son when those behave wisely the morning chocolate. she sit down on the side of the bed whisper. it be all arrange. thou wilt go by the lighthouse boat. that be a bribe of ten pound english. the captain be never pay by the government. the boat come to suakin in four day. there will go with thee george a greek muleteer. another bribe of ten pound. i will pay. they must not know of thy money. george will go with thee a far a he go with his mule. then he come back to me for his well beloved be here and if i do not receive a telegram from suakin say that thou art well the girl answer for george. 
thank you. he reach out sleepily for the cup. you be much too kind madame. 
if there be anything that i might do i would say stay here and be wise. but i do not think that would be best for thee. she look at her liquor stain dress with a sad smile. nay thou shalt go in truth thou shalt go. it be best so. my boy it be best so. 
she stoop and kiss dick between the eye. that be for good morning she say go away. when thou art dress we will speak to george and make everything ready. but first we must open the little trunk. give me the key. 
the amount of kiss lately ha be simply scandalous. i shall expect torp to kiss me next. he be more likely to swear at me for get in his way though. well it win t last long. ohe madame help me to my toilette of the guillotine. there will be no chance of dress properly out yonder. 
he be rummage among his new campaign kit and rowelling his hand with the spur. there be two way of wear well oil ankle jack spotless blue band khaki coat and breech and a perfectly pipeclayed helmet. the right way be the way of the untired man master of himself set out upon an expedition well please. 
everything must be very correct dick explain. it will become dirty afterwards but now it be good to feel well dress. be everything a it should be. 
he pat the revolver neatly hide under the fulness of the blouse on the right hip and finger his collar. 
i can do no more madame say between laugh and cry. look at thyself but i forget. 
i be very content. he stroke the creaseless spiral of his legging. 
now let u go and see the captain and george and the lighthouse boat. be quick madame. 
but thou canst not be see by the harbour walk with me in the daylight. figure to yourself if some english lady. 
there be no english lady. and if there be i have forget them. take me there. 
in spite of this burn impatience it be nearly even ere the lighthouse boat begin to move. madame have say a great deal both to george and the captain touch the arrangement that be to be make for dick s benefit. very few men who have the honour of her acquaintance care to disregard madame s advice. that sort of contempt might end in be knife by a strange in a gamble hell upon surprisingly short provocation. 
for six day two of them be waste in the crowd canal the little steamer work her way to suakin where she be to pick up the superintendent of the lighthouse. and dick make it his business to propitiate george who be distract with fear for the safety of his light of love and half incline to make dick responsible for his own discomfort. when they arrive george take him under his wing and together they enter the red hot seaport encumber with the material and wastage of the suakin berger line from locomotive in disconsolate fragment to mound of chair and pot sleeper. 
if you keep with me say george nobody will ask for passport or what you do. they be all very busy. 
yes. but i should like to hear some of the englishman talk. they might remember me. i be know here a long time ago when i be some one indeed. 
a long time ago be a very long time ago here. the graveyard be full. now listen. this new railway run out so far a tanai el hassan that be seven mile. then there be a camp. they say that beyond tanai el hassan the english troop go forward and everything that they require will be bring to them by this line. 
ah. base camp. i see. that s a good business than fight fuzzies in the open. 
for this reason even the mule go up in the iron train. 
iron what. 
it be all cover with iron because it be still be shoot at. 
an armour train. good and good. go on faithful george. 
and i go up with my mule tonight. only those who particularly require to go to the camp go out with the train. they begin to shoot not far from the city. 
the dear they always use to. dick snuff the smell of parch dust heat iron and flake paint with delight. certainly the old life be welcome him back most generously. 
when i have get my mule together i go up tonight but you must first send a telegram of port say declare that i have do you no harm. 
madame ha you well in hand. would you stick a knife into me if you have the chance. 
i have no chance say the greek. she be there with that woman. 
i see. it s a bad thing to be divide between love of woman and the chance of loot. i sympathise with you george. 
they go to the telegraph office unquestioned for all the world be desperately busy and have scarcely time to turn it head and suakin be the last place under sky that would be choose for holiday grind. on their return the voice of an english subaltern ask dick what he be do. the blue goggle be over his eye and he walk with his hand on george s elbow a he reply egyptian government mule. my order be to give them over to the a. c. g. at tanai el hassan. any occasion to show my paper. 
oh certainly not. i beg your pardon. i d no right to ask but not see your face before i. 
i go out in the train tonight i suppose say dick boldly. there will be no difficulty in load up the mule will there. 
you can see the horse platform from here. you must have them load up early. the young man go away wonder what sort of break down waif this might be who talk like a gentleman and consort with greek muleteer. dick felt unhappy. to outface an english officer be no small thing but the bluff lose relish when one play it from the utter dark and stumble up and down rough way think and eternally think of what might have be if thing have fall out otherwise and all have be a it be not. 
george share his meal with dick and go off to the mule line. his charge sit alone in a shed with his face in his hand. before his tight shut eye dance the face of maisie laugh with part lip. there be a great bustle and clamour about him. he grow afraid and almost call for george. 
i say have you get your mule ready. it be the voice of the subaltern over his shoulder. 
my man s look after them. the the fact be i ve a touch of ophthalmia and can t see very well. 
by jove. that s bad. you ought to lie up in hospital for a while. i ve have a turn of it myself. it s a bad a be blind. 
so i find it. when doe this armour train go. 
at six o clock. it take an hour to cover the seven mile. 
be the fuzzies on the rampage eh. 
about three night a week. fact be i m in act command of the night train. it generally run back empty to tanai for the night. 
big camp at tanai i suppose. 
pretty big. it ha to fee our desert column somehow. 
be that far off. 
between thirty and forty mile in an infernal thirsty country. 
be the country quiet between tanai and our men. 
more or le. i shouldn t care to cross it alone or with a subaltern s command for the matter of that but the scout get through it in some extraordinary fashion. 
they always do. 
have you be here before then. 
i be through most of the trouble when it first break out. 
in the service and cashier be the subaltern s first think so he refrain from put any question. 
there s your man come up with the mule. it seem rather queer. 
that i should be mule lead. say dick. 
i didn t mean to say so but it be. forgive me it s beastly impertinence i know but you speak like a man who ha be at a public school. there s no mistake the tone. 
i be a public school man. 
i think so. i say i don t want to hurt your feeling but you re a little down on your luck aren t you. i saw you sit with your head in your hand and that s why i speak. 
thank. i be about a thoroughly and completely break a a man need be. 
suppose i mean i m a public school man myself. couldn t i perhaps take it a a loan y know and. 
you re much too good but on my honour i ve a much money a i want. 
i tell you what you could do for me though and put me under an everlasting obligation. let me come into the bogie truck of the train. 
there be a fore truck isn t there. 
yes. how d you know. 
i ve be in an armour train before. only let me see hear some of the fun i mean and i ll be grateful. i go at my own risk a a non combatant. 
the young man think for a minute. all right he say. we re suppose to be an empty train and there s no one to blow me up at the other end. 
george and a horde of yell amateur assistant have load up the mule and the narrow gauge armour train plat with three eighth inch boiler plate till it look like one long coffin stand ready to start. 
two bogie truck run before the locomotive be completely cover in with plat except that the lead one be pierce in front for the muzzle of a machine gun and the second at either side for lateral fire. 
the truck together make one long iron vault chamber in which a score of artilleryman be riot. 
whitechapel last train. ah i see yer kissin in the first class there. somebody shout just a dick be clamour into the forward truck. 
lordy. ere s a real live passenger for the kew tanai acton and ealin train. echo sir. speshul edition. star sir. shall i get you a foot warm. say another. 
thank. i ll pay my foot say dick and relation of the most amiable be establish ere silence come with the arrival of the subaltern and the train jolt out over the rough track. 
this be an immense improvement on shoot the unimpressionable fuzzy in the open say dick from his place in the corner. 
oh but he s still unimpressed. there he go. say the subaltern a a bullet strike the outside of the truck. we always have at least one demonstration against the night train. generally they attack the rear truck where my junior command. he get all the fun of the fair. 
not tonight though. listen. say dick. a flight of heavy hand bullet be succeed by yell and shout. the child of the desert value their nightly amusement and the train be an excellent mark. 
be it worth give them half a hopper full. the subaltern ask of the engine which be drive by a lieutenant of sapper. 
i should think so. this be my section of the line. they ll be play old harry with my permanent way if we don t stop em. 
right o. 
hrrmph. say the machine gun through all it five nose a the subaltern draw the lever home. the empty cartridge clash on the floor and the smoke blow back through the truck. there be indiscriminate fire at the rear of the train and return fire from the darkness without and unlimited howl. dick stretch himself on the floor wild with delight at the sound and the smell. 
god be very good i never think i d hear this again. give em hell men. oh give em hell. he cry. 
the train stop for some obstruction on the line ahead and a party go out to reconnoitre but come back curse for spade. the child of the desert have pile sand and gravel on the rail and twenty minute be lose in clear it away. then the slow progress recommence to be vary with more shot more shouting the steady clack and kick of the machine gun and a final difficulty with a half lift rail ere the train come under the protection of the roar camp at tanai el hassan. 
now you see why it take an hour and a half to fetch her through say the subaltern unshipping the cartridge hopper above his pet gun. 
it be a lark though. i only wish it have last twice a long. how superb it must have look from outside. say dick sigh regretfully. 
it pall after the first few night. by the way when you ve settle about your mule come and see what we can find to eat in my tent. i m bennil of the gunner in the artillery line and mind you don t fall over my tent rope in the dark. 
but it be all dark to dick. he could only smell the camel the hay bale the cook the smoky fire and the tan canvas of the tent a he stand where he have drop from the train shout for george. there be a sound of light hearted kick on the iron skin of the rear truck with squeal and grunt. george be unload the mule. 
the engine be blow off steam nearly in dick s ear. a cold wind of the desert dance between his leg. he be hungry and felt tire and dirty so dirty that he try to brush his coat with his hand. that be a hopeless job. he thrust his hand into his pocket and begin to count over the many time that he have wait in strange or remote place for train or camel mule or horse to carry him to his business. in those day he could see few men more clearly and the spectacle of an arm camp at dinner under the stare be an ever fresh pleasure to the eye. there be colour light and motion without which no man ha much pleasure in live. this night there remain for him only one more journey through the darkness that never lift to tell a man how far he ha travel. then he would grip torpenhow s hand again torpenhow who be alive and strong and live in the midst of the action that have once make the reputation of a man call dick heldar. not in the least to be confuse with the blind bewilder vagabond who seem to answer to the same name. yes he would find torpenhow and come a near to the old life a might be. afterwards he would forget everything. bessie who have wreck the melancolia and so nearly wreck his life. beeton who live in a strange unreal city full of tin tack and gas plug and matter that no men need. that irrational be who have offer him love and loyalty for nothing but have not sign her name. and most of all maisie who from her own point of view be undeniably right in all she do but oh at this distance so tantalisingly fair. 
george s hand on his arm pull him back to the situation. 
and what now. say george. 
oh yes of course. what now. take me to the camel men. take me to where the scout sit when they come in from the desert. they sit by their camel and the camel eat grain out of a black blanket hold up at the corner and the men eat by their side just like camel. take me there. 
the camp be rough and rutty and dick stumble many time over the stump of scrub. the scout be sit by their beast a dick know they would. the light of the dung fire flicker on their beard face and the camel bubble and mumble beside them at rest. it be no part of dick s policy to go into the desert with a convoy of supply. that would lead to impertinent question and since a blind non combatant be not need at the front he would probably be force to return to suakin. 
he must go up alone and go immediately. 
now for one last bluff the big of all he say. peace be with you brother. the watchful george steer him to the circle of the near fire. the head of the camel sheik bow gravely and the camel scent a european look sideways curiously like brood hen half ready to get to their foot. 
a beast and a driver to go to the fight line tonight say dick. 
a mulaid. say a voice scornfully name the best baggage breed that he know. 
a bisharin return dick with perfect gravity. a bisharin without saddle gall. therefore no charge of thine shock head. 
two or three minute pass. then we be knee halter for the night. there be no go out from the camp. 
not for money. 
h m. ah. english money. 
another depress interval of silence. 
how much. 
twenty five pound english pay into the hand of the driver at my journey s end and a much more into the hand of the camel sheik here to be pay when the driver return. 
this be royal payment and the sheik who know that he would get his commission on this deposit stir in dick s behalf. 
for scarcely one night s journey fifty pound. land and well and good tree and wife to make a man content for the rest of his day. who speak. say dick. 
i say a voice. i will go but there be no go from the camp. 
fool. i know that a camel can break his knee halter and the sentry do not fire if one go in chase. twenty five pound and another twenty five pound. but the beast must be a good bisharin. i will take no baggage camel. 
then the bargain begin and at the end of half an hour the first deposit be pay over to the sheik who talk in low tone to the driver. 
dick hear the latter say. a little way out only. any baggage beast will serve. be i a fool to waste my cattle for a blind man. 
and though i cannot see dick lift his voice a little yet i carry that which ha six eye and the driver will sit before me. if we do not reach the english troop in the dawn he will be dead. 
but where in god s name be the troop. 
unless thou knowest let another man ride. dost thou know. remember it will be life or death to thee. 
i know say the driver sullenly. stand back from my beast. i be go to slip him. 
not so swiftly. george hold the camel s head a moment. i want to feel his cheek. the hand wander over the hide till they find the brand half circle that be the mark of the biharin the light build rid camel. 
that be well. cut this one loose. remember no bless of god come on those who try to cheat the blind. 
the men chuckle by the fire at the camel driver s discomfiture. he have intend to substitute a slow saddle gall baggage colt. 
stand back. one shout lash the biharin under the belly with a quirt. dick obey a soon a he felt the nose string tighten in his hand and a cry go up illaha. aho. he be loose. 
with a roar and a grunt the biharin rise to his foot and plunge forward toward the desert his driver follow with shout and lamentation. 
george catch dick s arm and hurry him stumble and trip past a disgust sentry who be use to stampede camel. 
what s the row now. he cry. 
every stitch of my kit on that blast dromedary dick answer after the manner of a common soldier. 
go on and take care your throat s not cut outside you and your dromedary s. 
the outcry cease when the camel have disappear behind a hillock and his driver have call him back and make him kneel down. 
mount first say dick. then climb into the second seat and gently screw the pistol muzzle into the small of his companion s back go on in god s name and swiftly. goodbye george. remember me to madame and have a good time with your girl. get forward child of the pit. 
a few minute late he be shut up in a great silence hardly break by the creak of the saddle and the soft pad of the tireless foot. dick adjust himself comfortably to the rock and pitch of the pace girth his belt tight and felt the darkness slide past. for an hour he be conscious only of the sense of rapid progress. 
a good camel he say at last. 
he be never underfed. he be my own and clean breed the driver reply. 
go on. 
his head drop on his chest and he try to think but the tenor of his thought be break because he be very sleepy. in the half doze in seem that he be learn a punishment hymn at mr. jennett s. he have commit some crime a bad a sabbath break and she have lock him up in his bedroom. but he could never repeat more than the first two line of the hymn. 
when israel of the lord believe out of the land of bondage come. 
he say them over and over thousand of time. the driver turn in the saddle to see if there be any chance of capture the revolver and end the ride. dick rouse strike him over the head with the butt and storm himself wide awake. somebody hide in a clump of camel thorn shout a the camel toil up rise grind. a shoot be fire and the silence shut down again bring the desire to sleep. dick could think no long. he be too tire and stiff and cramp to do more than nod uneasily from time to time wake with a start and punch the driver with the pistol. 
be there a moon. he ask drowsily. 
she be near her set. 
i wish that i could see her. halt the camel. at least let me hear the desert talk. 
the man obey. out of the utter stillness come one breath of wind. it rattle the dead leaf of a shrub some distance away and cease. a handful of dry earth detach itself from the edge of a rail trench and crumble softly to the bottom. 
go on. the night be very cold. 
those who have watch till the morning know how the last hour before the light lengthen itself into many eternity. it seem to dick that he have never since the begin of original darkness do anything at all save jolt through the air. once in a thousand year he would finger the nailhead on the saddle front and count them all carefully. century late he would shift his revolver from his right hand to his leave and allow the ease arm to drop down at his side. from the safe distance of london he be watch himself thus employ watch critically. yet whenever he put out his hand to the canvas that he might paint the tawny yellow desert under the glare of the sink moon the black shadow of a camel and the two bow figure atop that hand hold a revolver and the arm be numb from wrist to collar bone. moreover he be in the dark and could see no canvas of any kind whatever. 
the driver grunt and dick be conscious of a change in the air. 
i smell the dawn he whisper. 
it be here and yonder be the troop. have i do well. 
the camel stretch out it neck and roar a there come down wind the pungent reek of camel in the square. 
go on. we must get there swiftly. go on. 
they be move in their camp. there be so much dust that i cannot see what they do. 
be i in good case. go forward. 
they could hear the hum of voice ahead the howl and the bubble of the beast and the hoarse cry of the soldier girth up for the day. 
two or three shot be fire. 
be that at u. surely they can see that i be english dick speak angrily. 
nay it be from the desert the driver answer cower in his saddle. 
go forward my child. well it be that the dawn do not uncover u an hour ago. 
the camel head straight for the column and the shot behind multiply. the child of the desert have arrange that most uncomfortable of surprise a dawn attack for the english troop and be get their distance by snap shot at the only move object without the square. 
what luck. what stupendous and imperial luck. say dick. it s just before the battle mother. oh god ha be most good to me. only the agony of the think make him screw up his eye for an instant maisie. 
allahu. we be in say the man a he drive into the rearguard and the camel kneel. 
who the deuce be you. despatch or what. what s the strength of the enemy behind that ridge. how do you get through. ask a dozen voice. for all answer dick take a long breath unbuckle his belt and shout from the saddle at the top of a weary and dusty voice torpenhow. ohe torp. coo ee tor pen how. 
a beard man rake in the ash of a fire for a light to his pipe move very swiftly towards that cry a the rearguard face about begin to fire at the puff of smoke from the hillock around. gradually the scatter white cloudlets draw out into the long line of bank white that hang heavily in the stillness of the dawn before they turn over wave like and glide into the valley. the soldier in the square be cough and swear a their own smoke obstruct their view and they edge forward to get beyond it. a wound camel leap to it foot and roar aloud the cry end in a bubble grunt. some one have cut it throat to prevent confusion. then come the thick sob of a man receive his death wind from a bullet. then a yell of agony and redouble fire. 
there be no time to ask any question. 
get down man. get down behind the camel. 
no. put me i pray in the forefront of the battle. dick turn his face to torpenhow and raise his hand to set his helmet straight but miscalculate the distance knock it off. torpenhow saw that his hair be gray on the temple and that his face be the face of an old man. 
come down you damn fool. dickie come off. 
and dick come obediently but a a tree fall pitch sideways from the bisharin s saddle at torpenhow s foot. his luck have hold to the last even to the crown mercy of a kindly bullet through his head. 
torpenhow kneel under the lee of the camel with dick s body in his arm. 
the end. 
volume vii the story of the gadsbys. 
preface. 
to the address of. 
captain j. mafflin. 
duke of derry s. pink. hussar. 
dear mafflin you will remember that i write this story a an awful warn. none the le you have see fit to disregard it and have follow gadsby s example a i bet you would. i acknowledge that you pay the money at once but you have prejudice the mind of mr. mafflin against myself for though i be almost the only respectable friend of your bachelor day she ha be darwaza band to me throughout the season. further she cause you to invite me to dinner at the club where you call me a wild as of the desert and go home at half past ten after discourse for twenty minute on the responsibility of housekeep. you now drive a mail phaeton and sit under a church of england clergyman. i be not angry jack. it be your kismet a it be gaddy s and his kismet who can avoid. do not think that i be move by a spirit of revenge a i write thus publicly that you and you alone be responsible for this book. in other and more expansive day when you could look at a magnum without flush and at a cheroot without turn white you supply me with most of the material. take it back again would that i could have preserve your fetterless speech in the tell take it back and by your slippered hearth read it to the late miss deercourt. she will not be any the more will to receive my card but she will admire you immensely and you i feel sure will love me. you may even invite me to another very bad dinner at the club which a you and your wife know be a safe neutral grind for the entertainment of wild ass. then my very dear hypocrite we shall be quit. 
yours always. 
rudyard kipling. 
p. s. on second thought i should recommend you to keep the book away from mr. mafflin. 
poor dear mamma. 
the wild hawk to the wind sweep sky the deer to the wholesome wold and the heart of a man to the heart of a maid a it be in the day of old. gypsy song. 
scene. interior of miss minnie threegan s bedroom at simla. miss threegan in window seat turn over a drawerful of thing. miss emma deercourt bosom friend who ha come to spend the day sit on the bed manipulate the bodice of a ballroom frock and a bunch of artificial lily of the valley. time. p. m. on a hot may afternoon. 
miss deercourt. and he say. i shall never forget this dance and of course i say. oh how can you be so silly. do you think he mean anything dear. 
miss threegan. extract long lavender silk stock from the rubbish. you know him good than i do. 
miss d. oh do be sympathetic minnie. i m sure he doe. at least i would be sure if he wasn t always rid with that odious mr. hagan. 
miss t. i suppose so. how doe one manage to dance through one s heel first. look at this isn t it shameful. spread stock heel on open hand for inspection. 
miss d. never mind that. you can t mend it. help me with this hateful bodice. i ve run the string so and i ve run the string so and i can t make the fulness come right. where would you put this. wave lily of the valley. 
miss t. a high up on the shoulder a possible. 
miss d. be i quite tall enough. i know it make may old look lopsided. 
miss t. yes but may hasn t your shoulder. hers be like a hock bottle. 
bearer. rap at door. captain sahib aya. 
miss d. jump up wildly and hunt for bodice which she ha discard owe to the heat of the day. captain sahib. what captain sahib. oh good gracious and i m only half dress. well i sha n t bother. 
miss t. calmly. you needn t. it isn t for u. that s captain gadsby. he be go for a ride with mamma. he generally come five day out of the seven. 
agonize voice. prom an inner apartment. minnie run out and give captain gadsby some tea and tell him i shall be ready in ten minute. and o minnie come to me an instant there s a dear girl. 
miss t. oh bother. aloud. very well mamma. 
exit and reappear after five minute flush and rub her finger. 
miss d. you look pink. what ha happen. 
miss t. in a stage whisper. a twenty four inch waist and she win t let it out. where be my bangle. rummage on the toilet table and dab at her hair with a brush in the interval. 
miss d. who be this captain gadsby. i don t think i ve meet him. 
miss t. you must have. he belong to the harrar set. i ve dance with him but i ve never talk to him. he s a big yellow man just like a newly hatch chicken with an enormous moustache. he walk like this. imitate cavalry swagger. and he go ha hmmm. deep down in his throat when he can t think of anything to say. mamma like him. i don t. 
miss d. abstractedly. doe he wax that moustache. 
miss t. busy with powder puff. yes i think so. why. 
miss d. bend over the bodice and sew furiously. oh nothing only. 
miss t. sternly. only what. out with it emma. 
miss d. well may olger she s engage to mr. charteris you know say promise you win t repeat this. 
miss t. yes i promise. what do she say. 
miss d. that that be kiss. with a rush. with a man who didn t wax his moustache be like eat an egg without salt. 
miss t. at her full height with crush scorn. may olger be a horrid nasty thing and you can tell her i say so. i m glad she doesn t belong to my set i must go and fee this man. do i look presentable. 
miss d. yes perfectly. be quick and hand him over to your mother and then we can talk. i shall listen at the door to hear what you say to him. 
miss t. sure i don t care. i m not afraid of captain gadsby. 
in proof of this swing into the draw room with a mannish stride follow by two short step which produce the effect of a restive horse enter. miss captain gadsby who be sit in the shadow of the window curtain and gaze round helplessly. 
captain gadsby. aside. the filly by jove. must ha pick up that action from the sire. aloud rise. good even miss threegan. 
miss t. conscious that she be flush. good even captain gadsby. mamma tell me to say that she will be ready in a few minute. win t you have some tea. aside. i hope mamma will be quick. what be i to say to the creature. aloud and abruptly. milk and sugar. 
capt. g. no sugar tha anks and very little milk. ha hmmm. 
miss t. aside. if he s go to do that i m lose. i shall laugh. i know i shall. 
capt. g. pull at his moustache and watch it sideways down his nose. ha hmmm. aside. wonder what the little beast can talk about. must make a shoot at it. 
miss t. aside. oh this be agonize. i must say something. 
both together. have you be. 
capt. g. i beg your pardon. you be go to say. 
miss t. who ha be watch the moustache with awe fascination. win t you have some egg. 
capt. g. look bewilderedly at the tea table. egg. aside. o hades. she must have a nursery tea at this hour. s pose they ve wipe her mouth and send her to me while the mother be get on her dud. aloud. no thank. 
miss t. crimson with confusion. oh. i didn t mean that. i wasn t think of mou egg for an instant. i mean salt. win t you have some sa sweet. aside. he ll think me a rave lunatic. i wish mamma would come. 
capt. g. aside. it be a nursery tea and she s ashamed of it. by jove. she doesn t look half bad when she color up like that. aloud help himself from the dish. have you see those new chocolate at peliti s. 
miss t. no i make these myself. what be they like. 
capt. g. these. de licious. aside. and that s a fact. 
miss t. aside. oh bother. he ll think i m fish for compliment. aloud. no peliti s of course. 
capt. g. enthusiastically. not to compare with these. how d you make them. i can t get my khansamah to understand the simple thing beyond mutton and fowl. 
miss t. yes. i m not a khansamah you know. perhaps you frighten him. you should never frighten a servant. he lose his head. it s very bad policy. 
capt. g. he s so awf ly stupid. 
miss t. fold her hand in her lap. you should call him quietly and say. o khansamah jee. 
capt. g. get interest. yes. aside. fancy that little featherweight say o khansamah jee to my bloodthirsty mir khan. 
miss t then you should explain the dinner dish by dish. 
capt. g. but i can t speak the vernacular. 
miss t. patronizingly. you should pas the high standard and try. 
capt. g. i have but i don t seem to be any the wise. be you. 
miss t. i never pass the high standard. but the khansamah be very patient with me. he doesn t get angry when i talk about sheep s topee or order maund of grain when i mean seer. 
capt. g. aside with intense indignation. i d like to see mir khan be rude to that girl. hullo. steady the buff. aloud. and do you understand about horse too. 
miss t. a little not very much. i can t doctor them but i know what they ought to eat and i be in charge of our stable. 
capt. g. indeed. you might help me then. what ought a man to give his sais in the hill. my ruffian say eight rupee because everything be so dear. 
miss t. six rupee a month and one rupee simla allowance neither more nor le. and a grass cut get six rupee. that s good than buy grass in the bazar. 
capt. g. admiringly. how do you know. 
miss t. i have try both way. 
capt. g. do you ride much then. i ve never see you on the mall. 
miss t. aside. i haven t pass him more than fifty time. aloud. nearly every day. capt. g. by jove. i didn t know that. ha hmmm. pull at his moustache and be silent for forty second. 
miss t. desperately and wonder what will happen next. it look beautiful. i shouldn t touch it if i be you. aside. it s all mamma s fault for not come before. i will be rude. 
capt. g. bronze under the tan and bring down his hand very quickly. eh. wha at. oh yes. ha. ha. laugh uneasily. aside. well of all the dash cheek. i never have a woman say that to me yet. she must be a cool hand or else ah. that nursery tea. 
voice prom the unknown. tchk. tchk. tchk. 
capt. g. good gracious. what s that. 
miss t. the dog i think. aside. emma ha be listen and i ll never forgive her. 
capt. g. aside. they don t keep dog here. aloud. didn t sound like a dog do it. 
miss t. then it must have be the cat. let s go into the veranda. what a lovely even it be. 
step into veranda and look out across the hill into sunset. the captain follow. 
capt. g. aside. superb eye. i wonder that i never notice them before. aloud. there s go to be a dance at viceregal lodge on wednesday. can you spare me one. 
miss t. shortly. no. i don t want any of your charity dance. you only ask me because mamma tell you to. i hop and i bump. you know i do. 
capt. g. aside. that s true but little girl shouldn t understand these thing. aloud. no on my word i don t. you dance beautifully. 
miss t. then why do you always stand out after half a dozen turn. i think officer in the army didn t tell fib. 
capt. g. it wasn t a fib believe me. i really do want the pleasure of a dance with you. 
miss t. wickedly. why. win t mamma dance with you any more. 
capt. g. more earnestly than the necessity demand. i wasn t think of your mother. aside. you little vixen. 
miss t. still look out of the window. eh. oh i beg your pardon. i be think of something else. 
capt. g. aside. well. i wonder what she ll say next. i ve never know a woman treat me like this before. i might b dash it i might be an infantry subaltern. aloud. oh please don t trouble. i m not worth think about. isn t your mother ready yet. 
miss t. i should think so. but promise me captain gamsby you win t take poor dear mamma twice round jakko any more. it tire her so. 
capt. g. she say that no exercise tire her. 
miss t. yes but she suffer afterward. you don t know what rheumatism be and you oughtn t to keep her out so late when it get chill in the evening. 
capt. g. aside. rheumatism. i think she come off her horse rather in a bunch. whew. one life and learn. aloud. i m sorry to hear that. she hasn t mention it to me. 
miss t. flurry. of course not. poor dear mamma never would. and you mustn t say that i tell you either. promise me that you win t. oh captain gamsby promise me you win t. 
capt. g. i be dumb or i shall be a soon a you ve give me that dance and another if you can trouble yourself to think about me for a minute. 
miss t. but you win t like it one little bite. you ll be awfully sorry afterward. 
capt. g. i shall like it above all thing and i shall only be sorry that i didn t get more. aside. now what in the world be i say. 
miss t. very well. you will have only yourself to thank if your toe be tread on. shall we say seven. 
capt. g. and eleven. aside. she can t be more than eight stone but even then it s an absurdly small foot. look at his own rid boot. 
miss t. they re beautifully shiny. i can almost see my face in them. 
capt. g. i be think whether i should have to go on crutch for the rest of my life if you tread on my toe. 
miss t. very likely. why not change eleven for a square. 
capt. g. no please. i want them both waltz. win t you write them down. 
miss t. i don t get so many dance that i shall confuse them. you will be the offender. 
capt. g. wait and see. aside. she doesn t dance perfectly perhaps but. 
miss t. your tea must have get cold by this time. win t you have another cup. 
capt. g. no thank. don t you think it s pleasant out in the veranda. aside. i never saw hair take that color in the sunshine before. aloud. it s like one of dicksee s picture. 
miss t. yes i it s a wonderful sunset isn t it. bluntly. but what do you know about dicksee s picture. 
capt. g. i go home occasionally. and i use to know the gallery. nervously. you mustn t think me only a philistine with a moustache. 
miss t. don t. please don t. i m so sorry for what i say then. i be horribly rude. it slip out before j think. don t you know the temptation to say frightful and shock thing just for the mere sake of say them. i m afraid i give way to it. 
capt. g. watch the girl a she flush. i think i know the feel. it would be terrible if we all yield to it wouldn t it. for instance i might say. 
poor dear mamma. enter habit hat and boot. ah captain gamsby. sorry to keep you wait. hope you haven t be bore. my little girl be talk to you. 
miss t. aside. i m not sorry i speak about the rheumatism. i m not. i m not. i only wish i d mention the corn too. 
capt. g. aside. what a shame. i wonder how old she be. it never occur to me before. aloud. we ve be discuss shakespeare and the musical glass in the veranda. 
miss t. aside. nice man. he know that quotation. he isn t a philistine with a moustache. aloud. goodbye captain gadsby. aside. what a huge hand and what a squeeze. i don t suppose he mean it but he ha drive the ring into my finger. 
poor dear mamma. ha vermillion come round yet. oh yes. captain gadsby don t you think that the saddle be too far forward. they pas into the front veranda. 
capt. g. aside. how the dickens should i know what she prefer. she tell me that she dot on horse. aloud. i think it be. 
miss t. come out into front veranda. oh. bad buldoo. i must speak to him for this. he ha take up the curb two link and vermillion bat that. pass out and to horse s head. 
capt. g. let me do it. 
miss. t. no vermillion understand me. don t you old man. loosen curb chain skilfully and pat horse on nose and throttle. poor vermillion. do they want to cut his chin off. there. 
captain gadsby watch the interlude with undisguised admiration. 
poor dear mamma. tartly to miss t. you ve forget your guest i think dear. 
miss t. good gracious. so i have. goodbye. retreat indoors hastily. 
poor dear mamma. bunch rein in finger hamper by too tight gauntlet. captain gadsby. 
captain gadsby stoop and make the foot rest. poor dear mamma blunder halt too long and break through it. 
capt. g. aside. can t hold up seven stone forever. it s all your rheumatism. aloud. can t imagine why i be so clumsy. aside. now little featherweight would have go up like a bird. 
they ride out of the garden. the captain fall back. 
capt. g. aside. how that habit catch her under the arm. ugh. 
poor dear mamma. with the wear smile of sixteen season the bad for exchange. you re dull this afternoon captain gadsby. 
capt. g. spur up wearily. why do you keep me wait so long. 
et cetera et cetera et cetera. 
an interval of three week. 
gild youth. sit on railing opposite town hall. hullo gadsby. be trot out the gorgonzola. we all think it be the gorgon you re mash. 
capt. g. with wither emphasis. you young cub. what the doe it matter to you. 
proceed to read gild youth a lecture on discretion and deportment which crumble latter like a chinese lantern. depart fume. 
further interval of five week. scene. exterior of new simla library on a foggy even. miss threegan and miss deercourt meet among the rickshaw. miss t. be carry a bundle of book under her leave arm. 
miss d. level intonation. well. 
miss t. ascend intonation. well. 
miss d. capture her friend s leave arm take away all the book place book in rickshaw return to arm secure hand by third finger and investigate. well. you bad girl. and you never tell me. 
miss t. demurely. he he he only speak yesterday afternoon. 
miss d. bless you dear. and i m to be bridesmaid aren t i. you know you promise ever so long ago. 
miss t. of course. i ll tell you all about it tomorrow. get into rickshaw. o emma. 
miss d. with intense interest. yes dear. 
miss t. piano. it s quite true about the egg. 
miss d. what egg. 
miss t. pianissimo prestissimo. the egg without the salt. forte. chalo ghar ko jaldi jhampani. go home jhampani. 
the world without. 
certain people of importance. 
scene. smoke room of the degchi club. time. p. m. of a stuffy night in the rain. four men disperse in picturesque attitude and easy chair. to these enter blayne of the irregular mogul in even dress. 
blayne. phew. the judge ought to be hang in his own store godown. hi khitmatgar. pour a whiskey peg to take the taste out of my mouth. 
curtis. royal artillery. that s it be it. what the deuce make you dine at the judge s. you know his bandobust. 
blayne. think it couldn t be bad than the club but i ll swear he buy ullaged liquor and doctor it with gin and ink. look round the room. be this all of you tonight. 
doone. p. w. d. anthony be call out at dinner. mingle have a pain in his tummy. 
curtis. miggy dy of cholera once a week in the rain and get drink on chlorodyne in between. good little chap though. any one at the judge s blayne. 
blayne. cockley and his memsahib look awfully white and fag. f. male girl couldn tcatch the name on her way to the hill under the cockleys charge the judge and markyn fresh from simla disgustingly fit. 
curtis. good lord how truly magnificent. be there enough ice. when i mangle garbage there i get one whole lump nearly a big a a walnut. what have markyn to say for himself. 
blayne. seem that every one be have a fairly good time up there in spite of the rain. by jove that remind me. i know i hadn tcome across just for the pleasure of your society. news. great news. markyn tell me. 
doone. who s dead now. 
blayne. no one that i know of. but gadsby s hook at last. 
drop chorus. how much. the devil. markyn be pull your leg. not gadsby. 
blayne. hum. yea verily verily verily. verily verily i say unto thee. theodore the gift o god. our phillup. it s be give out up above. 
mackesy. barrister at law. huh. woman will give out anything. what doe accuse say. 
blayne. markyn tell me that he congratulate him warily one hand hold out t other ready to guard. gadsby turn pink and say it be so. 
curtis. poor old caddy. they all do it. who s she. let s hear the detail. 
blayne. she s a girl daughter of a colonel somebody. 
doone. simla s stiff with colonel daughter. be more explicit. 
blayne. wait a shake. what be her name. thresomething. three. 
curtis. star perhaps. caddy know that brand. 
blayne. threegan minnie threegan. 
mackesy. threegan isn t she a little bite of a girl with red hair. 
blayne. bout that from what from what markyn say. 
mackesy. then i ve meet her. she be at lucknow last season. own a permanently juvenile mamma and dance damnably. i say jervoise you know the threegans didn t you. 
jervoise. civilian of twenty five year service wake up from his doze. eh. what s that. know who. how. i think i be at home confound you. 
mackesy. the threegan girl s engage so blayne say. 
jervoise. slowly. engage en gag. bless my soul. i m get an old man. little minnie threegan engage. it be only the other day i go home with them in the surat no the massilia and she be crawl about on her hand and knee among the ayah. use to call me the tick tack sahib because i show her my watch. and that be in sixty seven no seventy. good god how time fly. i m an old man. i remember when threegan marry miss derwent daughter of old hooky derwent but that be before your time. and so the little baby s engage to have a little baby of her own. who s the other fool. 
mackesy. gadsby of the pink hussar. 
jervoise. never meet him. threegan live in debt marry in debt and ll die in debt. must be glad to get the girl off his hand. 
blayne. caddy ha money lucky devil. place at home too. 
doone. he come of first class stock. can t quite understand his be catch by a colonel s daughter and. look cautiously round room. black infantry at that. no offence to you blayne. 
blayne. stiffly. not much thaanks. 
curtis. quote motto of irregular mogul. we be what we be eh old man. but gadsby be such a superior animal a a rule. why didn t he go home and pick his wife there. 
mackesy. they be all alike when they come to the turn into the straight. about thirty a man begin to get sick of live alone. 
curtis. and of the eternal mutton chop in the morning. 
doone. it s a dead goat a a rule but go on mackesy. 
mackesy. if a man s once take that way nothing will hold him do you remember benoit of your service doone. they transfer him to tharanda when his time come and he marry a platelayer s daughter or something of that kind. she be the only female about the place. 
doone. yes poor brute. that smash benoit s chance of promotion altogether. mr. benoit use to ask be you goin to the dance this evenin. 
curtis. hang it all. gadsby hasn t marry beneath him. there s no tar brush in the family i suppose. 
jervoise. tar brush. not an anna. you young fellow talk a though the man be do the girl an honor in marry her. you re all too conceited nothing s good enough for you. 
blayne. not even an empty club a dam bad dinner at the judge s and a station a sickly a a hospital. you re quite right. we re a set of sybarite. 
doone. luxurious dog wallow in. 
curtis. prickly heat between the shoulder. i m cover with it. let s hope beora will be cool. 
blayne. whew. be you order into camp too. i think the gunner have a clean sheet. 
curtis. no bad luck. two case yesterday one die and if we have a third out we go. be there any shoot at beora doone. 
doone. the country s under water except the patch by the grand trunk road. i be there yesterday look at a bund and come across four poor devil in their last stage. it s rather bad from here to kuchara. 
curtis. then we re pretty certain to have a heavy go of it. heigho. i shouldn t mind change place with gaddy for a while. sport with amaryllis in the shade of the town hall and all that. oh why doesn t somebody come and marry me instead of let me go into cholera camp. 
mackesy. ask the committee. 
curtis. you ruffian. you ll stand me another peg for that. blayne what will you take. mackesy be fine on moral ground. do have you any preference. 
doone. small glass kummel please. excellent carminative these day. anthony tell me so. 
mackesy. sign voucher for four drink. most unfair punishment. i only think of curtis a actaeon be chivy round the billiard table by the nymph of diana. 
blayne. curtis would have to import his nymph by train. mr. cockley s the only woman in the station. she win t leave cockley and he s do his best to get her to go. 
curtis. good indeed. here s mr. cockley s health. to the only wife in the station and a damn brave woman. 
omnes. drink. a damn brave woman. 
blayne. i suppose gadsby will bring his wife here at the end of the cold weather. they be go to be marry almost immediately i believe. 
curtis. gadsby may thank his luck that the pink hussar be all detachment and no headquarter this hot weather or he d be tear from the arm of his love a sure a death. have you ever notice the thorough mind way british cavalry take to cholera. it s because they be so expensive. if the pink have stand fast here they would have be out in camp a month ago. yes i should decidedly like to be gadsby. 
mackesy. he ll go home after he s marry and send in his paper see if he doesn t. 
blayne. why shouldn t he. hasn t he money. would any one of u be here if we weren t pauper. 
doone. poor old pauper. what ha become of the six hundred you rook from our table last month. 
blayne. it take unto itself wing. i think an enterprising tradesman get some of it and a shroff gobble the rest or else i spend it. 
curtis. gadsby never have dealing with a shroff in his life. 
doone. virtuous gadsby. if i have three thousand a month pay from england i don t think i d deal with a shroff either. 
mackesy. yawn. oh it s a sweet life. i wonder whether matrimony would make it sweet. 
curtis. ask cockley with his wife die by inch. 
blayne. go home and get a fool of a girl to come out to what be it thackeray say. the splendid palace of an indian pro consul. 
doone. which remind me. my quarter leak like a sieve. i have fever last night from sleep in a swamp. and the bad of it be one can t do anything to a roof till the rain be over. 
curtis. what s wrong with you. you haven t eighty rot tommies to take into a run stream. 
doone. no. but i m mix boil and bad language. i m a regular job all over my body. it s sheer poverty of blood and i don t see any chance of get rich either way. 
blayne. can t you take leave. 
doone. that s the pull you army men have over u. ten day be nothing in your sight. i m so important that government can t find a substitute if i go away. ye e i d like to be gadsby whoever his wife may be. 
curtis. you ve pass the turn of life that mackesy be speak of. 
doone. indeed i have but i never yet have the brutality to ask a woman to share my life out here. 
blayne. on my soul i believe you re right. i m think of mr. cockley. the woman s an absolute wreck. 
doone. exactly. because she stay down here. the only way to keep her fit would be to send her to the hill for eight month and the same with any woman. i fancy i see myself take a wife on those term. 
mackesy. with the rupee at one and sixpence. the little doones would be little debra doones with a fine mussoorie @chi chi anent to bring home for the holiday. 
curtis. and a pair of be ewtiful sambhur horn for doone to wear free of expense present by doone. yes it s an enchant prospect. by the way the rupee hasn t do fall yet. the time will come when we shall think ourselves lucky if we only lose half our pay. 
curtis. surely a third s loss enough. who gain by the arrangement. that s what i want to know. 
blayne. the silver question. i m go to bed if you begin squabble thank goodness here s anthony look like a ghost. 
enter anthony indian medical staff very white and tire. 
anthony. even blayne. it s rain in sheet. whiskey peg lao khitmatgar. the road be something ghastly. 
curtis. how s mingle. 
anthony. very bad and more frighten. i hand him over to fewton. mingle might just a well have call him in the first place instead of bother me. 
blayne. he s a nervous little chap. what ha he get this time. 
anthony. can t quite say. a very bad tummy and a blue funk so far. he ask me at once if it be cholera and i tell him not to be a fool. that soothe him. 
curtis. poor devil. the funk doe half the business in a man of that build. 
anthony. light a cheroot. i firmly believe the funk will kill him if he stay down. you know the amount of trouble he s be give fewton for the last three week. he s do his very best to frighten himself into the grave. 
general chorus. poor little devil. why doesn t he get away. 
anthony. can t. he ha his leave all right but he s so dip he can t take it and i don t think his name on paper would raise four anna. that s in confidence though. 
mackesy. all the station know it. 
anthony. i suppose i shall have to die here he say squirm all across the bed. he s quite make up his mind to kingdom come. and i know he ha nothing more than a wet weather tummy if he could only keep a hand on himself. 
blayne. that s bad. that s very bad. poor little miggy. good little chap too. i say. 
anthony. what do you say. 
blayne. well look here anyhow. if it s like that a you say i say fifty. 
curtis. i say fifty. 
mackesy. i go twenty good. 
doone. bloat croesus of the bar. i say fifty. jervoise what do you say. hi. wake up. 
jervoise. eh. what s that. what s that. 
curtis. we want a hundred rupee from you. you re a bachelor draw a gigantic income and there s a man in a hole. 
jervoise. what man. any one dead. 
blayne. no but he ll die if you don t give the hundred. here. here s a peg voucher. you can see what we ve sign for and anthony s man will come round tomorrow to collect it. so there will be no trouble. 
jervoise. sign. one hundred e. m. j. there you be. feebly. it isn t one of your joke be it. 
blayne. no it really be want. anthony you be the big poker winner last week and you ve defraud the tax collector too long. sign. 
anthony. let s see. three fifty and a seventy two twenty three twenty say four hundred and twenty. that ll give him a month clear at the hill. many thank you men. i ll send round the chaprassi tomorrow. 
curtis. you must engineer his take the stuff and of course you mustn t. 
anthony. of course. it would never do. he d weep with gratitude over his even drink. 
blayne. that s just what he would do damn him. oh. i say anthony you pretend to know everything. have you hear about gadsby. 
anthony. no. divorce court at last. 
blayne. bad. he s engage. 
anthony. how much. he can t be. 
blayne. he be. he s go to be marry in a few week. markyn tell me at the judge s this even. it s pukka. 
anthony. you don t say so. holy moses. there ll be a shine in the tent of kedar. 
curtis. regiment cut up rough think you. 
anthony. don t know anything about the regiment. 
mackesy. it be bigamy then. 
anthony. maybe. do you mean to say that you men have forget or be there more charity in the world than i think. 
doone. you don t look pretty when you be try to keep a secret. you bloat. explain. 
anthony. mr. herriott. 
blayne. after a long pause to the room generally. it s my notion that we be a set of fool. 
mackesy. nonsense. that business be knock on the head last season. why young mallard. 
anthony. mallard be a candlestick parade a such. think awhile. recollect last season and the talk then. mallard or no mallard do gadsby ever talk to any other woman. 
curtis. there s something in that. it be slightly noticeable now you come to mention it. but she s at naini tal and he s at simla. 
anthony. he have to go to simla to look after a globe trotter relative of his a person with a title. uncle or aunt. 
blayne and there he get engage. no law prevent a man grow tire of a woman. 
anthony. except that he mustn t do it till the woman be tire of him. and the herriott woman be not that. 
curtis. she may be now. two month of naini tal work wonder. 
doone. curious thing how some woman carry a fate with them. there be a mr. deegie in the central province whose men invariably fell away and get marry. it become a regular proverb with u when i be down there. i remember three men desperately devote to her and they all one after another take wife. 
curtis. that s odd. now i should have think that mr. deegie s influence would have lead them to take other men s wife. it ought to have make them afraid of the judgment of providence. 
anthony. mr. herriott will make gadsby afraid of something more than the judgment of providence i fancy. 
blayne. suppose thing be a you say he ll be a fool to face her. he ll sit tight at simla. 
anthony. shouldn t be a bite surprise if he go off to naini to explain. he s an unaccountable sort of man and she s likely to be a more than unaccountable woman. 
doone. what make you take her character away so confidently. 
anthony. primum tempus. caddy be her first and a woman doesn t allow her first man to drop away without expostulation. she justify the first transfer of affection to herself by swear that it be forever and ever. consequently. 
blayne. consequently we be sit here till past one o clock talk scandal like a set of station cat. anthony it s all your fault. we be perfectly respectable till you come in. go to bed. i m off good night all. 
curtis. past one. it s past two by jove and here s the khit come for the late charge. just heaven. one two three four five rupee to pay for the pleasure of say that a poor little beast of a woman be no good than she should be. i m ashamed of myself. go to bed you slanderous villain and if i m send to beora tomorrow be prepare to hear i m dead before pay my card account. 
the tent of kedar. 
only why should it be with pain at all. why must i twixt the leaf of coronal put any kiss of pardon on thy brow. why should the other woman know so much and talk together such the look and such the smile he use to love with then a now. any wife to any husband. 
scene. a naini tal dinner for thirty four. plate wine crockery and khitmatgars carefully calculate to scale of r. per mensem le exchange. table split lengthways by bank of flower. 
mr. herriott. after conversation ha rise to proper pitch. ah. didn t see you in the crush in the draw room. sotto voce. where have you be all this while pip. 
captain gadsby. turn from regularly ordain dinner partner and settle hock glass. good even. sotto voce. not quite so loud another time. you ve no notion how your voice carry. aside. so much for shirk the write explanation. it ll have to be a verbal one now. sweet prospect. how on earth be i to tell her that i be a respectable engage member of society and it s all over between u. 
mr. h. i ve a heavy score against you. where be you at the monday pop. where be you on tuesday. where be you at the lamonts tennis. i be look everywhere. 
capt. g. for me. oh i be alive somewhere i suppose. aside. it s for minnie s sake but it s go to be dash unpleasant. 
mr. h. have i do anything to offend you. i never mean it if i have. i couldn t help go for a ride with the vaynor man. it be promise a week before you come up. 
capt. g. i didn t know. 
mr. h. it really be. 
capt. g. anything about it i mean. 
mr. h. what ha upset you today. all these day. you haven t be near me for four whole day nearly one hundred hour. be it kind of you pip. and i ve be look forward so much to your come. 
capt. g. have you. 
mr. h. you know i have. i ve be a foolish a a schoolgirl about it. i make a little calendar and put it in my card case and every time the twelve o clock gun go off i scratch out a square and say. that bring me near to pip. my pip. 
capt. g. with an uneasy laugh. what will mackler think if you neglect him so. 
mr. h. and it hasn t bring you near. you seem farther away than ever. be you sulk about something. i know your temper. 
capt. g. no. 
mr. h. have i grow old in the last few month then. reach forward to bank of flower for menu card. 
partner on leave. allow me. hand menu card. mr. h. keep her arm at full stretch for three second. 
mr. h. to partner. oh thank. i didn t see. turn right again. be anything in me change at all. 
capt. g. for goodness s sake go on with your dinner. you must eat something. try one of those cutlet arrangement. aside. and i fancy she have good shoulder once upon a time. what an as a man can make of himself. 
mr. h. help herself to a paper frill seven pea some stamp carrot and a spoonful of gravy. that isn t an answer. tell me whether i have do anything. 
capt. g. aside. if it isn t end here there will be a ghastly scene some where else. if only i d write to her and stand the racket at long range. to khitmatgar. han. simpkin do. aloud. i ll tell you late on. 
mr. h. tell me now. it must be some foolish misunderstand and you know that there be to be nothing of that sort between u. we. of all people in the world can t afford it. be it the vaynor man and don t you like to say so. on my honor. 
capt. g. i haven t give the vaynor man a think. 
mr. h. but how d you know that i haven t. 
capt. g. aside. here s my chance and may the devil help me through with it. aloud and measuredly. believe me i do not care how often or how tenderly you think of the vaynor man. 
mr. h. i wonder if you mean that. oh what be the good of squabble and pretend to misunderstand when you be only up for so short a time. pip don t be a stupid. 
follow a pause during which he cross his leave leg over his right and continue his dinner. 
capt. g. in answer to the thunderstorm in her eye. corn my bad. 
mr. h. upon my word you be the very rude man in the world. i ll never do it again. 
capt. g. aside. no i don t think you will. but i wonder what you will do before it s all over. to khitmatgar. thorah ur simpkin do. 
mr. h. well. haven t you the grace to apologize bad man. 
capt. g. aside. i mustn t let it drift back now. trust a woman for be a blind a a bat when she win t see. 
mr. h. i m wait. or would you like me to dictate a form of apology. 
capt. g. desperately. by all mean dictate. 
mr. h. lightly. very well. rehearse your several christian name after me and go on. profess my sincere repentance. 
capt. g. sincere repentance. 
mr. h. for have behave. 
capt. g. aside. at last. i wish to goodness she d look away. for have behave a i have behave and declare that i be thoroughly and heartily sick of the whole business and take this opportunity of make clear my intention of end it now henceforward and forever. aside. if any one have tell me i should be such a blackguard. 
mr. h. shake a spoonful of potato chip into her plate. that s not a pretty joke. 
capt. g. no. it s a reality. aside. i wonder if smash of this kind be always so raw. 
mr. h. really pip you re get more absurd every day. 
capt. g. i don t think you quite understand me. shall i repeat it. 
mr. h. no. for pity s sake don t do that. it s too terrible even in fur. 
capt. g. i ll let her think it over for a while. but i ought to be horsewhip. 
mr. h. i want to know what you mean by what you say just now. 
capt. g. exactly what i say. no le. 
mr. h. but what have i do to deserve it. what have i do. 
capt. g. aside. if she only wouldn t look at me. aloud and very slowly his eye on his plate. d you remember that even in july before the rain break when you say that the end would have to come sooner or late and you wonder for which of u it would come first. 
mr. h. yes. i be only joke. and you swear that a long a there be breath in your body it should never come. and i believe you. 
capt. g. finger menu card. well it ha. that s all. 
a long pause during which mr. h. bow her head and roll the bread twist into little pellet. g. stare at the oleander. 
mr. h. throw back her head and laugh naturally. they train u woman well don t they pip. 
capt. g. brutally touch shirt stud. so far a the expression go. aside. it isn t in her nature to take thing quietly. there ll be an explosion yet. 
mr. h. with a shudder. thank you. b but even red indian allow people to wriggle when they re be torture i believe. slip fan from girdle and fan slowly. rim of fan level with chin. 
partner on leave. very close tonight isn t it. you find it too much for you. 
mr. h. oh no not in the least. but they really ought to have punkah even in your cool naini tal oughtn t they. turn drop fan and raise eyebrow. 
capt. g. it s all right. aside. here come the storm. 
mr. h. her eye on the tablecloth. fan ready in right hand. it be very cleverly manage pip and i congratulate you. you swear you never content yourself with merely say a thing you swear that a far a lay in your power you d make my wretched life pleasant for me. and you ve deny me the consolation of break down. i should have do it indeed i should. a woman would hardly have think of this refinement my kind considerate friend. fan guard a before. you have explain thing so tenderly and truthfully too. you haven t speak or write a word of warn and you have let me believe in you till the last minute. you haven t condescend to give me your reason yet. no. a woman could not have manage it half so well. be there many men like you in the world. 
capt. g. i m sure i don t know. to khitmatgar. ohe. simpkin do. 
mr. h. you call yourself a man of the world don t you. do men of the world behave like devil when they do a woman the honor to get tire of her. 
capt. g. i m sure i don t know. don t speak so loud. 
mr. h. keep u respectable o lord whatever happen. don t be afraid of my compromise you. you ve choose your grind far too well and i ve be properly bring up. lower fan. haven t you any pity pip except for yourself. 
capt. g. wouldn t it be rather impertinent of me to say that i m sorry for you. 
mr. h. i think you have say it once or twice before. you re grow very careful of my feeling. my god pip i be a good woman once. you say i be. you ve make me what i be. what be you go to do with me. what be you go to do with me. win t you say that you be sorry. help herself to ice asparagus. 
capt. g. i be sorry for you if you want the pity of such a brute a i be. i m awf ly sorry for you. 
mr. h. rather tame for a man of the world. do you think that that admission clear you. 
capt. g. what can i do. i can only tell you what i think of myself. you can t think bad than that. 
mr. h. oh yes i can. and now will you tell me the reason of all this. remorse. ha bayard be suddenly conscience stricken. 
capt. g. angrily his eye still lower. no. the thing ha come to an end on my side. that s all. mafisch. 
mr. h. that s all. mafisch. a though i be a cairene dragoman. you use to make pretty speech. d you remember when you say. 
capt. g. for heaven s sake don t bring that back. call me anything you like and i ll admit it. 
mr. h. but you don t care to be remind of old lie. if i could hope to hurt you one tenth a much a you have hurt me tonight no i wouldn t i couldn t do it liar though you be. 
capt. g. i ve speak the truth. 
mr. h. my dear sir you flat yourself. you have lie over the reason. pip remember that i know you a you don t know yourself. you have be everything to me though you be. fan guard. oh what a contemptible thing it be. and so you be merely tire of me. 
capt. g. since you insist upon my repeat it yes. 
mr. h. lie the first. i wish i know a coarse word. lie seem so ineffectual in your case. the fire ha just die out and there be no fresh one. think for a minute pip if you care whether i despise you more than i do. simply mafisch be it. 
capt. g. yes. aside. i think i deserve this. 
mr. h. lie number two. before the next glass choke you tell me her name. 
capt. g. aside. i ll make her pay for drag minnie into the business. aloud. be it likely. 
mr. h. very likely if you think that it would flat your vanity. you d cry my name on the house top to make people turn round. 
capt. g. i wish i have. there would have be an end to this business. 
mr. h. oh no there would not and so you be go to be virtuous and blase be you. to come to me and say. i ve do with you. the incident be clo osed. i ought to be proud of have keep such a man so long. 
capt. g. aside. it only remain to pray for the end of the dinner. aloud. you know what i think of myself. 
mr. h. a it s the only person in he world you ever do think of and a i know your mind thoroughly i do. you want to get it all over and oh i can t keep you back. and you re go think of it pip to throw me over for another woman. and you swear that all other woman be pip my pip. she can t care for you a i do. believe me she can t. be it any one that i know. 
capt. g. thank goodness it isn t. aside. i expect a cyclone but not an earthquake. 
mr. h. she can t. be there anything that i wouldn t do for you or haven t do. and to think that i should take this trouble over you know what you be. do you despise me for it. 
capt. g. wipe his mouth to hide a smile. again. it s entirely a work of charity on your part. 
mr. h. ahhh. but i have no right to resent it. be she good look than i. who be it say. 
capt. g. no not that. 
mr. h. i ll be more merciful than you be. don t you know that all woman be alike. 
capt. g. aside. then this be the exception that prof the rule. 
mr. h. all of them. i ll tell you anything you like. i will upon my word. they only want the admiration from anybody no matter who anybody. but there be always one man that they care for more than any one else in the world and would sacrifice all the others to. oh do listen. i ve keep the vaynor man trot after me like a poodle and he belief that he be the only man i be interest in. i ll tell you what he say to me. 
capt. g. spare him. aside. i wonder what his version be. 
mr. h. he s be wait for me to look at him all through dinner. shall i do it and you can see what an idiot he look. 
capt. g. but what import the nomination of this gentleman. 
mr. h. watch. send a glance to the vaynor man who try vainly to combine a mouthful of ice pudding a smirk of self satisfaction a glare of intense devotion and the stolidity of a british din countenance. 
capt. g. critically. he doesn t look pretty. why didn t you wait till the spoon be out of his mouth. 
mr. h. to amuse you. she ll make an exhibition of you a i ve make of him. and people will laugh at you. oh pip can t you see that. it s a plain a the noonday sun. you ll be trot about and tell lie and make a fool of like the others. i never make a fool of you do i. 
capt. g. aside. what a clever little woman it be. 
mr. h. well what have you to say. 
capt. g. i feel good. 
mr. h. yes i suppose so after i have come down to your level. i couldn t have do it if i hadn t care for you so much. i have speak the truth. 
capt. g. it doesn t alter the situation. 
mr. h. passionately. then she ha say that she care for you. don t believe her pip. it s a lie a bad a yours to me. 
capt. g. ssssteady. i ve a notion that a friend of yours be look at you. 
mr. h. he. i hate him. he introduce you to me. 
capt. g. aside. and some people would like woman to assist in make the law. introduction to imply condonement. aloud. well you see if you can remember so far back a that i couldn t in common politeness refuse the offer. 
mr. h. in common politeness i we have get beyond that. 
capt. g. aside. old grind mean fresh trouble. aloud. on my honor. 
mr. h. your what. ha ha. 
capt. g. dishonor then. she s not what you imagine. i mean to. 
mr. h. don t tell me anything about her. she win t care for you and when you come back after have make an exhibition of yourself you ll find me occupy with. 
capt. g. insolently. you couldn t while i be alive. aside. if that doesn t bring her pride to her rescue nothing will. 
mr. h. draw herself up. couldn t do it. i. soften. you re right. i don t believe i could though you be what you be a coward and a liar in grain. 
capt. g. it doesn t hurt so much after your little lecture with demonstration. 
mr. h. one mass of vanity. will nothing ever touch you in this life. there must be a hereafter if it s only for the benefit of but you will have it all to yourself. 
capt. g. under his eyebrow. be you certain of that. 
mr. h. i shall have have mine in this life. and it will serve me right. 
capt. g. but the admiration that you insist on so strongly a moment ago. aside. oh i be a brute. 
mr. h. fiercely. will that console me for know that you will go to her with the same word the same argument and the the same pet name you use to me. and if she care for you you two will laugh over my story. win t that be punishment heavy enough even for me even for me. and it s all useless. that s another punishment. 
capt. g. feebly. oh come. i m not so low a you think. 
mr. h. not now perhaps but you will be. oh pip if a woman flatter your vanity there s nothing on earth that you would not tell her. and no meanness that you would not do. have i know you so long without know that. 
capt. g. if you can trust me in nothing else and i don t see why i should be trust you can count upon my hold my tongue. 
mr. h. if you deny everything you ve say this even and declare it be all in fun. a long pause. i d trust you. not otherwise. all i ask be don t tell her my name. please don t. a man might forget. a woman never would. look up table and see host begin to collect eye. so it s all end through no fault of mine haven t i behave beautifully. i ve accept your dismissal and you manage it a cruelly a you could and i have make you respect my sex haven t i. arrange glove and fan. i only pray that she ll know you some day a i know you now. i wouldn t be you then for i think even your conceit will be hurt. i hope she ll pay you back the humiliation you ve bring on me. i hope no. i don t. i can t give you up. i must have something to look forward to or i shall go crazy. when it s all over come back to me come back to me and you ll find that you re my pip still. 
capt. g. very clearly. false move and you pay for it. it s a girl. 
mr. h. rise. then it be true. they say but i wouldn t insult you by ask. a girl. i be a girl not very long ago. be good to her pip. i daresay she belief in you. 
go out with an uncertain smile. he watch her through the door and settle into a chair a the men redistribute themselves. 
capt. g. now if there be any power who look after this world will he kindly tell me what i have do. reach out for the claret and half aloud. what have i do. 
with any amazement. 
and be not afraid with any amazement. marriage service. 
scene. bachelor s bedroom toilet table arrange with unnatural neatness. captain gadsby asleep and snore heavily. time. a. m. a glorious autumn day at simla. enter delicately captain mafflin of gadsby s regiment. look at sleeper and shake his head murmur poor gaddy. perform violent fantasia with hair brush on chairback. 
capt. m. wake up my sleep beauty. roar. uprouse ye then my merry merry men. it be our open day. it be our open da ay. gaddy the little dicky bird have be bill and coo for ever so long. and i m here. 
capt. g. sit up and yawn. mornin. this be awf ly good of you old fellow. most awf ly good of you. don t know what i should do without you. pon my soul i don t. haven t sleep a wink all night. 
capt. m. i didn t get in till half past eleven. have a look at you then and you seem to be sleep a soundly a a condemn criminal. 
capt. g. jack if you want to make those disgustingly wear out joke you d good go away. with portentous gravity. it s the happy day in my life. 
capt. m. chuckle grimly. not by a very long chalk my son. you re go through some of the most refine torture you ve ever know. but be calm. i be with you. shun. dress. 
capt. g. eh. wha at. 
capt. m. do you suppose that you be your own master for the next twelve hour. if you do of course. make for the door. 
capt. g. no. for goodness sake old man don t do that. you ll see me through win t you. i ve be mug up that beastly drill and can t remember a line of it. 
capt. m. overturn g. s uniform. go and tub. don t bother me. i ll give you ten minute to dress in. 
interval fill by the noise a of one splash in the bath room. 
capt. g. emerge from dress room. what time be it. 
capt. m. nearly eleven. 
capt. g. five hour more. o lord. 
capt. m. aside. first sign of funk that. wonder if it s go to spread. aloud. come along to breakfast. 
capt. g. i can t eat anything. i don t want any breakfast. 
capt. m. aside. so early. aloud. captain gadsby i order you to eat breakfast and a dash good breakfast too. none of your bridal air and grace with me. 
lead g. downstairs and stand over him while he eat two chop. 
capt. g. who ha look at his watch thrice in the last five minute. what time be it. 
capt. m. time to come for a walk. light up. 
capt. g. i haven t smoke for ten day and i win t now. take cheroot which m. ha cut for him and blow smoke through his nose luxuriously. we aren t go down the mall be we. 
capt. m. aside. they re all alike in these stage. aloud. no my vestal. we re go along the quiet road we can find. 
capt. g. any chance of see her. 
capt. m. innocent. no. come along and if you want me for the final obsequies don t cut my eye out with your stick. 
capt. g. spin round. i say isn t she the dear creature that ever walk. what s the time. what come after wilt thou take this woman. 
capt. m. you go for the ring. r c lect it ll be on the top of my right hand little finger and just be careful how you draw it off because i shall have the verger s fee somewhere in my glove. 
capt. g. walk forward hastily. d the verger. come along. it s past twelve and i haven t see her since yesterday even. spin round again. she s an absolute angel jack and she s a dash deal too good for me. look here doe she come up the aisle on my arm or how. 
capt. m. if i think that there be the least chance of your remember anything for two consecutive minute i d tell you. stop passaging about like that. 
capt. g. halt in the middle of the road. i say jack. 
capt. m. keep quiet for another ten minute if you can you lunatic. and walk. 
the two tramp at five mile an hour for fifteen minute. 
capt. g. what s the time. how about the curse wed cake and the slipper. they don t throw em about in church do they. 
capt. m. invariably. the padre lead off with his boot. 
capt. g. confound your silly soul. don t make fun of me. i can t stand it and i win t. 
capt. m. untroubled. so ooo old horse you ll have to sleep for a couple of hour this afternoon. 
capt. g. spin round. i m not go to be treat like a dash child. understand that. 
capt. m. aside. nerve go to fiddle string. what a day we re have. tenderly put his hand on g. s shoulder. my david how long have you know this jonathan. would i come up here to make a fool of you after all these year. 
capt. g. penitently. i know i know jack but i m a upset a i can be. don t mind what i say. just hear me run through the drill and see if i ve get it all right. to have and to hold for good or bad a it be in the begin be now and ever shall be world without end so help me god. amen. 
capt. m. suffocate with suppress laughter. yes. that s about the gist of it. i ll prompt if you get into a hat. 
capt. g. earnestly. yes you ll stick by me jack win t you. i m awfully happy but i don t mind tell you that i m in a blue funk. 
capt. m. gravely. be you. i should never have notice it. you don t look like it. 
capt. g. don t i. that s all right. spin round. on my soul and honor jack she s the sweet little angel that ever come down from the sky. there isn t a woman on earth fit to speak to her. 
capt. m. aside. and this be old gadsby. aloud. go on if it relief you. 
capt. g. you can laugh. that s all you wild ass of bachelor be fit for. 
capt. m. drawl. you never would wait for the troop to come up. you aren t quite marry yet y know. 
capt. g. ugh. that remind me. i don t believe i shall be able to get into any boot let s go home and try em on. hurry forward. 
capt. m. wouldn t be in your shoe for anything that asia ha to offer. 
capt. g. spin round. that just show your hideous blackness of soul your dense stupidity your brutal narrow mindedness. there s only one fault about you. you re the best of good fellow and i don t know what i should have do without you but you aren t marry. wag his head gravely. take a wife jack. 
capt. m. with a face like a wall. ya a. whose for choice. 
capt. g. if you re go to be a blackguard i m go on what s the time. 
capt. m. hum. an since twas very clear we drink only ginger beer faith there must ha be some stingo in the ginger. come back you maniac. i m go to take you home and you re go to lie down. 
capt. g. what on earth do i want to lie down for. 
capt. m. give me a light from your cheroot and see. 
capt. g. watch cheroot butt quiver like a tune fork. sweet state i m in. 
capt. m. you be. i ll get you a peg and you ll go to sleep. 
they return and m. compound a four finger peg. 
capt. g. o bus. bus. it ll make me a drink a an owl. 
capt. m. curious thing twon t have the slight effect on you. drink it off chuck yourself down there and go to bye bye. 
capt. g. it s absurd. i sha n t sleep i know i sha n t. 
fall into heavy doze at end of seven minute. capt. m. watch him tenderly. 
capt. m. poor old gadsby. i ve see a few turn off before but never one who go to the gallows in this condition. can t tell how it affect em though. it s the thoroughbred that sweat when they re back into double harness. and that s the man who go through the gun at amdheran like a devil possess of devil. lean over g. but this be bad than the gun old pal bad than the gun isn t it. g. turn in his sleep and m. touch him clumsily on the forehead. poor dear old gaddy. go like the rest of em go like the rest of em friend that sticketh close than a brother eight year. dash bite of a slip of a girl eight week. and where s your friend. smoke disconsolately till church clock strike three. 
capt. m. up with you. get into your kit. 
capt. c. already. isn t it too soon. hadn t i good have a shave. 
capt. m. no. you re all right. aside. he d chip his chin to piece. 
capt. c. what s the hurry. 
capt. m. you ve get to be there first. 
capt. c. to be star at. 
capt. m. exactly. you re part of the show. where s the burnisher. your spur be in a shameful state. 
capt. g. gruffly. jack i be damn if you shall do that for me. 
capt. m. more gruffly. dry up and get dress. if i choose to clean your spur you re under my order. 
capt. g. dress. m. follow suit. 
capt. m. critically walk round. m yes you ll do. only don t look so like a criminal. ring glove fee that s all right for me. let your moustache alone. now if the pony be ready we ll go. 
capt. g. nervously. it s much too soon. let s light up. let s have a peg. let s. 
capt. m. let s make bally ass of ourselves. 
bell. without. good peo ple all to prayer we call. 
capt. m. there go the bell. come on unless you d rather not. they ride off. 
bell. we honor the king and bride joy do bring good tide we tell and ring the dead s knell. 
capt. g. dismount at the door of the church. i say aren t we much too soon. there be no end of people inside. i say aren t we much too late. stick by me jack. what the devil do i do. 
capt. m. strike an attitude at the bead of the aisle and wait for her. g. groan a m. wheel him into position before three hundred eye. 
capt. m. imploringly. gaddy if you love me for pity s sake for the honor of the regiment stand up. chuck yourself into your uniform. look like a man. i ve get to speak to the padre a minute. g. break into a gentle perspiration. if you wipe your face i ll never be your best man again. stand up. g. tremble visibly. 
capt. m. return. she s come now. look out when the music start. there s the organ begin to clack. 
bride step out of rickshaw at church door. g. catch a glimpse of her and take heart. 
organ. the voice that breathe o er eden that early marriage day the primal marriage bless it hath not pass away. 
capt. m. watch g. by jove. he be look well. didn t think he have it in him. 
capt. g. how long doe this hymn go on for. 
capt. m. it will be over directly. anxiously. begin to bleach and gulp. hold on gabby and think o the regiment. 
capt. g. measuredly. i say there s a big brown lizard crawl up that wall. 
capt. m. my saint mother. the last stage of collapse. 
bride come up to leave of altar lift her eye once to g. who be suddenly smite mad. 
capt. g. to himself again and again. little featherweight s a woman a woman. and i think she be a little girl. 
capt. m. in a whisper. form the halt inward wheel. 
capt. g. obey mechanically and the ceremony proceed. 
padre. only unto her a ye both shall live. 
capt. g. his throat useless. ha hmmm. 
capt. m. say you will or you win t. there s no second deal here. 
bride give response with perfect coolness and be give away by the father. 
capt. g. think to show his learn. jack give me away now quick. 
capt. m. you ve give yourself away quite enough. her right hand man. repeat. repeat. theodore philip. have you forget your own name. 
capt. g. stumble through affirmation which bride repeat without a tremor. 
capt. m. now the ring. follow the padre. don t pull off my glove. here it be. great cupid he s find his voice. 
capt. g. repeat troth in a voice to be hear to the end of the church and turn on his heel. 
capt. m. desperately. rein back. back to your troop. tisn t half legal yet. 
padre. join together let no man put asunder. 
capt. g. paralyze with fear jib after bless. 
capt. m. quickly. on your own front one length. take her with you. i don t come. you ve nothing to say. capt. g. jingle up to altar. 
capt. m. in a pierce rattle mean to be a whisper. kneel you stiff neck ruffian. kneel. 
padre. whose daughter be ye so long a ye do well and be not afraid with any amazement. 
capt. m. dismiss. break off. leave wheel. 
all troop to vestry. they sign. 
capt. m. kiss her gaddy. 
capt. g. rub the ink into his glove. eh. wha at. 
capt. m. take one pace to bride. if you don t i shall. 
capt. g. interpose an arm. not this journey. 
general kiss in which capt. g. be pursue by unknown female. 
capt. g. faintly to m. this be hades. can i wipe my face now. 
capt. m. my responsibility ha end. good ask miss gadsby. 
capt. g. wince a though shoot and procession be mendelssohned out of church to house where usual torture take place over the wed cake. 
capt. m. at table. up with you gaddy. they expect a speech. 
capt. g. after three minute agony. ha hmmm. thunder of applause. 
capt. m. doocid good for a first attempt. now go and change your kit while mamma be weep over the missus. capt. g. disappear. capt. m. start up tear his hair. it s not half legal. where be the shoe. get an ayah. 
ayah. missie captain sahib do go band karo all the jutis. 
capt. m. brandish scab lard sword. woman produce those shoe. some one lend me a bread knife. we mustn t crack gaddy s head more than it be. slice heel off white satin slipper and put slipper up his sleeve. 
where be the bride. to the company at large. be tender with that rice. it s a heathen custom. give me the big bag. * * * * * *. 
bride slip out quietly into rickshaw and depart toward the sunset. 
capt. m. in the open. steal away by jove. so much the bad for gaddy. here he be. now gaddy this ll be lively than amdberan. where s your horse. 
capt. g. furiously see that the woman be out of an earshot. where the d s my wife. 
capt. m. half way to mahasu by this time. you ll have to ride like young lochinvar. 
horse come round on his hind leg. refuse to let g. handle him. 
capt. g. oh you will will you. get round you brute you hog you beast. get round. 
wrench horse s head over nearly break low jaw. swing himself into saddle and send home both spur in the midst of a spatter gale of best patna. 
capt. m. for your life and your love ride gaddy and god bless you. 
throw half a pound of rice at g. who disappear bow forward on the saddle in a cloud of sunlit dust. 
capt. m. i ve lose old gaddy. light cigarette and stroll off sing absently. you may carve it on his tombstone you may cut it on his card that a young man marry be a young man mar. 
miss deercourt. from her horse. really captain mafflin. you be more plain speak than polite. 
capt. m. aside. they say marriage be like cholera. wonder who ll be the next victim. 
white satin slipper slide from his sleeve and fall at his foot. leave wonder. 
the garden of eden and ye shall be a god. 
scene. thymy grass plot at back of the mahasu dak bungalow overlook little wooded valley. on the leave glimpse of the dead forest of fagoo. on the right simla hill. in background line of the snow. captain gadsby now three week a husband be smoke the pipe of peace on a rug in the sunshine. banjo and tobacco pouch on rug. overhead the fagoo eagle. mr. g. come out of bungalow. 
mr. g. my husband. 
capt. g. lazily with intense enjoyment. eh wha at. say that again. 
mr. g. i ve write to mamma and tell her that we shall be back on the th. 
capt. g. do you give her my love. 
mr. g. no i keep all that for myself. sit down by his side. i think you wouldn t mind. 
capt. g. with mock sternness. i object awf ly. how do you know that it be yours to keep. 
mr. g. i guess phil. 
capt. g. rapturously. light tle featherweight. 
mr. g. i win t be call those sport pet name bad boy. 
capt. g. you ll be call anything i choose. ha it ever occur to you madam that you be my wife. 
mr. g. it ha. i haven t cease wonder at it yet. 
capt. g. nor i. it seem so strange. and yet somehow it doesn t. confidently. you see it could have be no one else. 
mr. g. softly. no. no one else for me or for you. it must have be all arrange from the begin. phil tell me again what make you care for me. 
capt. g. how could i help it. you be you you know. 
mr. g. do you ever want to help it. speak the truth. 
capt. g. a twinkle in his eye. i do darling just at the first. rut only at the very first. chuckle. i call you stoop low and i ll whisper a little beast. ho. ho. ho. 
mr. g. take him by the moustache and make him sit up. a little beast. stop laugh over your crime. and yet you have the the awful cheek to propose to me. 
capt. c. i d change my mind then. and you weren t a little beast any more. 
mr. g. thank you sir. and when be i ever. 
capt. g. never. but that first day when you give me tea in that peach color muslin gown thing you look you do indeed dear such an absurd little mite. and i didn t know what to say to you. 
mr. g. twist moustache. so you say little beast. upon my word sir. i call you a crrrreature but i wish now i have call you something bad. 
capt. g. very meekly. i apologize but you re hurt me awf ly. interlude. you re welcome to torture me again on those term. 
mr. g. oh why do you let me do it. 
capt. g. look across valley. no reason in particular but if it amuse you or do you any good you might wipe those dear little boot of yours on me. 
mr. g. stretch out her hand. don t. oh don t. philip my king please don t talk like that. it s how i feel. you re so much too good for me. so much too good. 
capt. g. me. i m not fit to put my arm around you. put it round. 
mr. c. yes you be. but i what have i ever do. 
capt. g. give me a wee bite of your heart haven t you my queen. 
mr. g. that s nothing. any one would do that. they cou couldn thelp it. 
capt. g. pussy you ll make me horribly conceited. just when i be begin to feel so humble too. 
mr. g. humble. i don t believe it s in your character. 
capt. g. what do you know of my character impertinence. 
mr. g. ah but i shall shan t i phil. i shall have time in all the year and year to come to know everything about you. and there will be no secret between u. 
capt. g. little witch. i believe you know me thoroughly already. 
mr. g. i think i can guess. you re selfish. 
capt. g. yes. 
mr. g. foolish. 
capt. g. very. 
mr. g. and a dear. 
capt. g. that be a my lady plea. 
mr. g. then your lady be please. a pause. d you know that we re two solemn serious grow up people. 
capt. g. tilt her straw hat over her eye. you grow up. pooh. you re a baby. 
mr. g. and we re talk nonsense. 
capt. g. then let s go on talk nonsense. i rather like it. pussy i ll tell you a secret. promise not to repeat. 
mr. g. ye e. only to you. 
capt. g. i love you. 
mr. g. re ally. for how long. 
capt. g. forever and ever. 
mr. g. that s a long time. 
capt. g. think so. it s the short i can do with. 
mr. g. you re get quite clever. 
capt. g. i m talk to you. 
mr. g. prettily turn. hold up your stupid old head and i ll pay you for it. 
capt. g. affect supreme contempt. take it yourself if you want it. 
mr. g. i ve a great mind to and i will. take it and be repay with interest. 
capt. g little featherweight it s my opinion that we be a couple of idiot. 
mr. g. we re the only two sensible people in the world. ask the eagle. he s come by. 
capt. g. ah. i dare say he s see a good many sensible people at mahasu. they say that those bird live for ever so long. 
mr. g. how long. 
capt. g. a hundred and twenty year. 
mr. g. a hundred and twenty year. o oh. and in a hundred and twenty year where will these two sensible people be. 
capt. g. what doe it matter so long a we be together now. 
mr. g. look round the horizon. yes. only you and i i and you in the whole wide wide world until the end. see the line of the snow. how big and quiet the hill look. d you think they care for u. 
capt. g. can t say i ve consult em particularly. i care and that s enough for me. 
mr. g. draw near to him. yes now but afterward. what s that little black blur on the snow. 
capt. g. a snowstorm forty mile away. you ll see it move a the wind carry it across the face of that spur and then it will be all go. 
mr. g. and then it will be all go. shiver. 
capt. g. anxiously. not chill pet be you. good let me get your cloak. 
mr. g. no. don t leave me phil. stay here. i believe i be afraid. oh why be the hill so horrid. phil promise me that you ll always love me. 
capt. g. what s the trouble darling. i can t promise any more than i have. but i ll promise that again and again if you like. 
mr. g. her head on his shoulder. say it then say it. n no don t. the the eagle would laugh. recover. my husband you ve marry a little goose. 
capt. g. very tenderly. have i. i be content whatever she be so long a she be mine. 
mr. g. quickly. because she be yours or because she be me mineself. 
capt. g. because she be both. piteously. i m not clever dear and i don t think i can make myself understand properly. 
mr. g. i understand. pip will you tell me something. 
capt. g. anything you like. aside. i wonder what s come now. 
mr. g. haltingly her eye lower. you tell me once in the old day century and century ago that you have be engage before. i didn t say anything then. 
capt. g. innocently. why not. 
mr. g. raise her eye to his. because because i be afraid of lose you my heart. but now tell about it please. 
capt. g. there s nothing to tell. i be awf ly old then nearly two and twenty and she be quite that. 
mr. g. that mean she be old than you. i shouldn t like her to have be young. well. 
capt. g. well i fancy myself in love and rave about a bite and oh yes by jove. i make up poetry. ha. ha. 
mr. g. you never write any for me. what happen. 
capt. g. i come out here and the whole thing go phut. she write to say that there have be a mistake and then she marry. 
mr. g. do she care for you much. 
capt. g. no. at least she didn t show it a far a i remember. 
mr. g. a far a you remember. do you remember her name. hear it and bow her head. thank you my husband. 
capt. g. who but you have the right. now little featherweight have you ever be mix up in any dark and dismal tragedy. 
mr. g. if you call me mr. gadsby p rap i ll tell. 
capt. g. throw parade rasp into his voice. mr. gadsby confess. 
mr. g. good heaven phil. i never know that you could speak in that terrible voice. 
capt. g. you don t know half my accomplishment yet. wait till we be settle in the plain and i ll show you how i bark at my troop. you be go to say darling. 
mr. g. i i don t like to after that voice. tremulously. phil never you dare to speak to me in that tone whatever i may do. 
capt. g. my poor little love. why you re shake all over. i be so sorry. of course i never mean to upset you don t tell me anything i m a brute. 
mr. g. no you aren t and i will tell there be a man. 
capt. g. lightly. be there. lucky man. 
mr. g. in a whisper. and i think i care for him. 
capt. g. still lucky man. well. 
mr. g. and i think i care for him and i didn t and then you come and i care for you very very much indeed. that s all. face hide. you aren t angry be you. 
capt. g. angry. not in the least. aside. good lord what have i do to deserve this angel. 
mr. g. aside. and he never ask for the name. how funny men be. but perhaps it s a well. 
capt. g. that man will go to heaven because you once think you care for him. wonder if you ll ever drag me up there. 
mr. g. firmly. sha n t go if you don t. 
capt. g. thank. i say pussy i don t know much about your religious belief. you be bring up to believe in a heaven and all that weren t you. 
mr. g. yes. but it be a pincushion heaven with hymn book in all the pew. 
capt. g. wag his head with intense conviction. never mind. there be a pukka heaven. 
mr. g. where do you bring that message from my prophet. 
capt. g. here. because we care for each other. so it s all right. 
mr. g. a a troop of langur crash through the branch. so it s all right. but darwin say that we come from those. 
capt. g. placidly. ah. darwin be never in love with an angel. that settle it. sstt you brute. monkey indeed. you shouldn t read those book. 
mr. g. fold her hand. if it plea my lord the king to issue proclamation. 
capt. g. don t dear one. there be no order between u. only i d rather you didn t. they lead to nothing and bother people s head. 
mr. g. like your first engagement. 
capt. g. with an immense calm. that be a necessary evil and lead to you. be you nothing. 
mr. g. not so very much be i. 
capt. g. all this world and the next to me. 
mr. g. very softly. my boy of boy. shall i tell you something. 
capt. g. yes if it s not dreadful about other men. 
mr. g. it s about my own bad little self. 
capt. g. then it must be good. go on dear. 
mr. g. slowly. i don t know why i m tell you pip. but if ever you marry again. interlude. take your hand from my mouth or i ll bite. in the future then remember i don t know quite how to put it. 
capt. g. snort indignantly. don t try. marry again indeed. 
mr. g. i must. listen my husband. never never never tell your wife anything that you do not wish her to remember and think over all her life. because a woman yes i be a woman can t forget. 
capt. g. by jove how do you know that. 
mr. g. confusedly. i don t. i m only guess. i be i be a silly little girl. but i feel that i know so much oh so very much more than you dear. to begin with i m your wife. 
capt. g. so i have be lead to believe. 
mr. g. and i shall want to know every one of your secret to share everything you know with you. stare round desperately. 
capt. g. so you shall dear so you shall but don t look like that. 
mr. g. for your own sake don t stop me phil. i shall never talk to you in this way again. you must not tell me. at least not now. late on when i m an old matron it win t matter but if you love me be very good to me now. for this part of my life i shall never forget. have i make you understand. 
capt. g. i think so child. have i say anything yet that you disapprove of. 
mr. g. will you be very angry. that that voice and what you say about the engagement. 
capt. g. but you ask to be tell that darling. 
mr. g. and that s why you shouldn t have tell me. you must be the judge and oh pip dearly a i love you i shan t be able to help you. i shall hind you and you must judge in spite of me. 
capt. g. meditatively. we have a great many thing to find out together god help u both say so pussy but we shall understand each other good every day. and i think i m begin to see now. how in the world do you come to know just the importance of give me just that lead. 
mr. g. i ve tell you that i don t know. only somehow it seem that in all this new life i be be guide for your sake a well a my own. 
capt. g. aside. then mafflin be right. they know and we we re blind all of u. lightly. get a little beyond our depth dear aren t we. i ll remember and if i fail let me be punish a i deserve. 
mr. g. there shall be no punishment. we ll start into life together from here you and i and no one else. 
capt. g. and no one else. a pause. your eyelash be all wet sweet. be there ever such a quaint little absurdity. 
mr. g. be there ever such nonsense talk before. 
capt. g. knock the ash out of his pipe. tisn t what we say it s what we don t say that help. and it s all the profound philosophy. but no one would understand even if it be put into a book. 
mr. g. the idea. no only we ourselves or people like ourselves if there be any people like u. 
capt. g. magisterially. all people not like ourselves be blind idiot. 
mr. g. wipe her eye. do you think then that there be any people a happy a we be. 
capt. g. must be unless we ve appropriate all the happiness in the world. 
mr. g. look toward simla. poor dear. just fancy if we have. 
capt. g. then we ll hang on to the whole show for it s a great deal too jolly to lose eh wife o mine. 
mr. g. o pip. pip. how much of you be a solemn marry man and how much a horrid slangy schoolboy. 
capt. g. when you tell me how much of you be eighteen last birthday and how much be a old a the sphinx and twice a mysterious perhaps i ll attend to you. lend me that banjo. the spirit moveth me to yowl at the sunset. 
mr. g. mind. it s not tune. ah. how that jar. 
capt. g. turn peg. it s amazingly different to keep a banjo to proper pitch. 
mr. g. it s the same with all musical instrument what shall it be. 
capt. g. vanity and let the hill hear. sing through the first and half of the second verse. turn to mr. g. now chorus. sing pussy. both together. con brio to the horror of the monkey who be settle for the night. 
vanity all be vanity say wisdom. scorn me i clasp my true love s tender hand and answer frank and free ee if this be vanity who d be wise. if this be vanity who d be wise. if this be vanity who d be wi ise. crescendo. vanity let it be. 
mr. g. defiantly to the grey of the even sky. vanity let it be. 
echo. prom the fagoo spur. let it be. 
fatima. 
and you may go in every room of the house and see everything that be there but into the blue room you must not go. the story of blue beard. 
scene. the gadsbys bungalow in the plain. time a. m. on a sunday morning. captain gadsby in his shirt sleeve be bend over a complete set of hussar s equipment from saddle to picket rope which be neatly spread over the floor of his study. he be smoke an unclean briar and his forehead be pucker with think. 
capt. g. to himself finger a headstall. jack s an as. there s enough brass on this to load a mule and if the american know anything about anything it can be cut down to a bite only. don t want the water bridle either. humbug. half a dozen set of chain and pulley for one horse. rot. scratch his head. now let s consider it all over from the begin. by jove i ve forget the scale of weight. never mind. keep the bite only and eliminate every bos from the crupper to breastplate. no breastplate at all. simple leather strap across the breast like the russian. hi. jack never think of that. 
mr. g. enter hastily her hand bind in a cloth. oh pip i ve scald my hand over that horrid horrid tiparee jam. 
capt. g. absently. eh. wha at. 
mr. g. with round eye reproach. i ve scald it aw fully. aren t you sorry. and i do so want that jam to jam properly. 
capt. g. poor little woman. let me kiss the place and make it well. unroll bandage. you small sinner. where s that scald. i can t see it. 
mr. g. on the top of the little finger. there. it s a most normous big burn. 
capt. g. kiss little finger. baby. let hyder look after the jam. you know i don t care for sweet. 
mr. g. indeed. pip. 
capt. g. not of that kind anyhow. and now run along minnie and leave me to my own base device. i m busy. 
mr. g. calmly settle herself in long chair. so i see. what a mess you re make. why have you bring all that smelly leather stuff into the house. 
capt. g. to play with. do you mind dear. 
mr. g. let me play too. i d like it. 
capt. g. i m afraid you wouldn t. pussy don t you think that jam will burn or whatever it be that jam doe when it s not look after by a clever little housekeeper. 
mr. g. i think you say hyder could attend to it. i leave him in the veranda stir when i hurt myself so. 
capt. g. his eye return to the equipment. po oor little woman. three pound four and seven be three eleven and that can be cut down to two eight with just a lee tle care without weaken anything. farriery be all rot in incompetent hand. what s the use of a shoe case when a man s scout. he can t stick it on with a lick like a stamp the shoe. skittle. 
mr. g. what s skittle. pah. what be this leather clean with. 
capt. g. cream and champagne and look here dear do you really want to talk to me about anything important. 
mr. g. no. i ve do my account and i think i d like to see what you re do. 
capt. g. well love now you ve see and would you mind. that be to say minnie i really be busy. 
mr. g. you want me to go. 
capt. g yes dear for a little while. this tobacco will hang in your dress and saddlery doesn t interest you. 
mr. g. everything you do interest me pip. 
capt. g. yes i know i know dear. i ll tell you all about it some day when i ve put a head on this thing. in the meantime. 
mr. g. i m to be turn out of the room like a troublesome child. 
capt. g. no o. i don t mean that exactly. but you see i shall be tramp up and down shift these thing to and fro and i shall be in your way. don t you think so. 
mr. g. can t i lift them about. let me try. reach forward to trooper s saddle. 
capt. g. good gracious child don t touch it. you ll hurt yourself. pick up saddle. little girl aren t expect to handle numdah. now where would you like it put. hold saddle above his head. 
mr. g. a break in her voice. nowhere. pip how good you be and how strong. oh what s that ugly red streak inside your arm. 
capt. g. lower saddle quickly. nothing. it s a mark of sort. aside. and jack s come to tiffin with his notion all cut and dry. 
mr. g. i know it s a mark but i ve never see it before. it run all up the arm. what be it. 
capt. g. a cut if you want to know. 
mr. g. want to know. of course i do. i can t have my husband cut to piece in this way. how do it come. be it an accident. tell me pip. 
capt. g. grimly. no. twasn t an accident. i get it from a man in afghanistan. 
mr. g. in action. oh pip and you never tell me. 
capt. g. i d forget all about it. 
mr. g. hold up your arm. what a horrid ugly scar. be you sure it doesn t hurt now. how do the man give it you. 
capt. g. desperately look at his watch. with a knife. i come down old van loo do that s to say and fell on my leg so i couldn t run. and then this man come up and begin chop at me a i sprawl. 
mr. g. oh don t don t. that s enough. well what happen. 
capt. g. i couldn t get to my holster and mafflin come round the corner and stop the performance. 
mr. g. how. he s such a lazy man i don t believe he do. 
capt. g. don t you. i don t think the man have much doubt about it. jack cut his head off. 
mr. g. cut his head off. with one blow a they say in the book. 
capt. g. i m not sure. i be too interest in myself to know much about it. anyhow the head be off and jack be punch old van loo in the rib to make him get up. now you know all about it dear and now. 
mr. g. you want me to go of course. you never tell me about this though i ve be marry to you for ever so long. and you never would have tell me if i hadn t find out. and you never do tell me anything about yourself or what you do or what you take an interest in. 
capt. g. darling i m always with you aren t i. 
mr. g. always in my pocket you be go to say. i know you be. but you be always think away from me. 
capt. g. try to hide a smile. be i. i wasn t aware of it. i m awf ly sorry. 
mr. g. piteously. oh don t make fun of me. pip you know what i mean. when you be read one of those thing about cavalry by that idiotic prince why doesn t he be a prince instead of a stable boy. 
capt. g. prince kraft a stable boy oh my aunt. never mind dear. you be go to say. 
mr. g. it doesn t matter. you don t care for what i say. only only you get up and walk about the room star in front of you and then mafflin come in to dinner and after i m in the draw room i can hear you and him talk and talk and talk about thing i can t understand and oh i get so tire and feel so lonely. i don t want to complain and be a trouble pip. but i do indeed i do. 
capt. g. my poor darling. i never think of that. why don t you ask some nice people in to dinner. 
mr. g. nice people. where be i to find them. horrid frump. and if i do i shouldn t be amuse. you know i only want you. 
capt. g. and you have me surely sweetheart. 
mr. g. i have not. pip why don t you take me into your life. 
capt. g. more than i do. that would be difficult dear. 
mr. g. yes i suppose it would to you. i m no help to you no companion to you. and you like to have it so. 
capt. g. aren t you a little unreasonable pussy. 
mr. g. stamp her foot. i m the most reasonable woman in the world when i m treat properly. 
capt. g. and since when have i be treat you improperly. 
mr. g. always and since the begin. you know you have. 
capt. g. i don t. but i m will to be convince. 
mr. g. point to saddlery. there. 
capt. g. how do you mean. 
mr. g. what doe all that mean. why be i not to be tell. be it so precious. 
capt. g. i forget it exact government value just at present. it mean that it be a great deal too heavy. 
mr. g. then why do you touch it. 
capt. g. to make it light. see here little love i ve one notion and jack ha another but we be both agree that all this equipment be about thirty pound too heavy. the thing be how to cut it down without weaken any part of it and at the same time allow the trooper to carry everything he want for his own comfort sock and shirt and thing of that kind. 
mr. g. why doesn t he pack them in a little trunk. 
capt. g. kiss her. oh you darling. pack them in a little trunk indeed. hussar don t carry trunk and it s a most important thing to make the horse do all the carry. 
mr. g. but why need you bother about it. you re not a trooper. 
capt. g. no. but i command a few score of him. and equipment be nearly everything in these day. 
mr. g. more than me. 
capt. g. stupid. of course not. but it s a matter that i m tremendously interest in because if i or jack or i and jack work out some sort of light saddlery and all that it s possible that we may get it adopt. 
mr. g. how. 
capt. g. sanction at home where they will make a seal pattern a pattern that all the saddler must copy and so it will be use by all the regiment. 
mr. g. and that interest you. 
capt. g. it s part of my profession y know and my profession be a good deal to me. everything in a soldier s equipment be important and if we can improve that equipment so much the good for the soldier and for u. 
mr. g. who s u. 
capt. g. jack and i. only jack s notion be too radical. what s that big sigh for minnie. 
mr. g. oh nothing and you ve keep all this a secret from me. why. 
capt. g. not a secret exactly dear. i didn t say anything about it to you because i didn t think it would amuse you. 
mr. g. and be i only make to be amuse. 
capt. g. no of course. i merely mean that it couldn t interest you. 
mr. g. it s your work and and if you d let me i d count all these thing up. if they be too heavy you know by how much they be too heavy and you must have a list of thing make out to your scale of lightness and. 
capt. g. i have get both scale somewhere in my head. but it s hard to tell how light you can make a head stall for instance until you ve actually have a model make. 
mr. g. but if you read out the list i could copy it down and pin it up there just above your table. wouldn t that do. 
capt. g. it would be awf ly nice dear but it would be give you trouble for nothing. i can t work that way. i go by rule of thumb. i know the present scale of weight and the other one the one that i m try to work to will shift and vary so much that i couldn t be certain even if i write it down. 
mr. g. i m so sorry. i think i might help. be there anything else that i could be of use in. 
capt. g. look round the room. i can t think of anything. you re always help me you know. 
mr. g. be i. how. 
capt. g. you be of course and a long a you re near me i can t explain exactly but it s in the air. 
mr. g. and that s why you want to send me away. 
capt. g. that s only when i m try to do work grubby work like this. 
mr. g. mafflin s good then isn t he. 
capt. g. rashly. of course he be. jack and i have be think along the same groove for two or three year about this equipment. it s our hobby and it may really be useful some day. 
mr. g. after a pause. and that s all that you have away from me. 
capt. g. it isn t very far away from you now. take care the oil on that bite doesn t come off on your dress. 
mr. g. i wish i wish so much that i could really help you. i believe i could if i leave the room. but that s not what i mean. 
capt. g. aside. give me patience. i wish she would go. aloud. i assure you you can t do anything for me minnie and i must really settle down to this. where s my pouch. 
mr. g. cross to write table. here you be bear. what a mess you keep your table in. 
capt. g. don ttouch it. there s a method in my madness though you mightn t think of it. 
mr. g. at table. i want to look do you keep account pip. 
capt. g. bend over saddlery. of a sort. be you rummage among the troop paper. be careful. 
mr. g. why. i sha n t disturb anything. good gracious. i have no idea that you have anything to do with so many sick horse. 
capt. g. wish i hadn t but they insist on fall sick. minnie if be you i really should not investigate those paper. you may come across something that you win t like. 
mr. g. why will you always treat me like a child. i know i m not displace the horrid thing. 
capt. g. resignedly. very well then. don t blame me if anything happen. play with the table and let me go on with the saddlery. slip hand into trouser pocket. oh the deuce. 
mr. g. her back to g. what s that for. 
capt. g. nothing. aside. there s not much in it but i wish i d tear it up. 
mr. g. turn over content of table. i know you ll hate me for this. but i do want to see what your work be like. a pause. pip what be farcybuds. 
capt. g. hah. would you really like to know. they aren t pretty thing. 
mr. g. this journal of veterinary science say they be of absorb interest. tell me. 
capt. g. aside. it may turn her attention. 
give a long and designedly loathsome account of glanders and farcy. 
mr. g. oh that s enough. don t go on. 
capt. g. but you want to know then these thing suppurate and matterate and spread. 
mr. g. pin you re make me sick. you re a horrid disgust schoolboy. 
capt. g. on his knee among the bridle. you ask to be tell. it s not my fault if you worry me into talk about horror. 
mr. g. why didn t you say no. 
capt. g. good heaven child. have you come in here simply to bully me. 
mr. g. i bully you. how could i. you re so strong. hysterically. strong enough to pick me up and put me outside the door and leave me there to cry. aren t you. 
capt. g. it seem to me that you re an irrational little baby. be you quite well. 
mr. g. do i look ill. return to table. who be your lady friend with the big grey envelope and the fat monogram outside. 
capt. g. aside. then it wasn t lock up confound it. aloud. god make her therefore let her pas for a woman. you remember what farcybuds be like. 
mr. g. show envelope. this ha nothing to do with them. i m go to open it. may i. 
capt. g. certainly if you want to. i d sooner you didn t though. i don t ask to look at your letter to the deercourt girl. 
mr. g. you d good not sir. take letter from envelope. now may i look. if you say no i shall cry. 
capt. g. you ve never cry in my knowledge of you and i don t believe you could. 
mr. g. i feel very like it today pip. don t be hard on me. read letter. it begin in the middle without any dear captain gadsby or anything. how funny. 
capt. g. aside. no it s not dear captain gadsby or anything now. how funny. 
mr. g. what a strange letter. read. and so the moth ha come too near the candle at last and ha be sing into shall i say respectability. i congratulate him and hope he will be a happy a he deserve to be. what doe that mean. be she congratulate you about our marriage. 
capt. g. yes i suppose so. 
mr. g. still read letter. she seem to be a particular friend of yours. 
capt. g. yes. she be an excellent matron of sort a mr. herriott wife of a colonel herriott. i use to know some of her people at home long ago before i come out. 
mr. g. some colonel s wife be young a young a me. i know one who be young. 
capt. g. then it couldn t have be mr. herriott. she be old enough to have be your mother dear. 
mr. g. i remember now. mr. scargill be talk about her at the dutfins tennis before you come for me on tuesday. captain mafflin say she be a dear old woman. do you know i think mafflin be a very clumsy man with his foot. 
capt. g. aside. good old jack. aloud. why dear. 
mr. g. he have put his cup down on the grind then and he literally step into it. some of the tea spirt over my dress the grey one. i mean to tell you about it before. 
capt. g. aside. there be the making of a strategist about jack though his method be coarse. aloud. you d good get a new dress then. aside. let u pray that that will turn her. 
mr. g. oh it isn t stain in the least. i only think that i d tell you. return to letter. what an extraordinary person. read. but need i remind you that you have take upon yourself a charge of wardship what in the world be a charge of wardship. which a you yourself know may end in consequence. 
capt. g. aside. it s safe to let em see everything a they come across it. but seem to me that there be exception to the rule. aloud. i tell you that there be nothing to be gain from rearrange my table. 
mr. g. absently. what doe the woman mean. she go on talk about consequence almost inevitable consequence with a capital c for half a page. flush scarlet. oh good gracious. how abominable. 
capt. g. promptly. do you think so. doesn t it show a sort of motherly interest in u. aside. thank heaven. harry always wrap her mean up safely. aloud. be it absolutely necessary to go on with the letter darling. 
mr. g. it s impertinent it s simply horrid. what right ha this woman to write in this way to you. she oughtn t to. 
capt. g. when you write to the deercourt girl i notice that you generally fill three or four sheet. can t you let an old woman babble on paper once in a way. she mean well. 
mr. g. i don t care. she shouldn t write and if she do you ought to have show me her letter. 
capt. g. can t you understand why i keep it to myself or must i explain at length a i explain the farcybuds. 
mr. g. furiously. pip i hate you. this be a bad a those idiotic saddle bag on the floor. never mind whether it would please me or not you ought to have give it to me to read. 
capt. g. it come to the same thing. you take it yourself. 
mr. g. yes but if i hadn t take it you wouldn t have say a word. i think this harriet herriott it s like a name in a book be an interfere old thing. 
capt. g. aside. so long a you thoroughly understand that she be old i don t much care what you think. aloud. very good dear. would you like to write and tell her so. she s seven thousand mile away. 
mr. g. i don t want to have anything to do with her but you ought to have tell me. turn to last page of letter. and she patronize me too. i ve never see her. read. i do not know how the world stand with you. in all human probability i shall never know. but whatever i may have say before i pray for her sake more than for yours that all may be well. i have learn what misery mean and i dare not wish that any one dear to you should share my knowledge. 
capt. g. good god. can t you leave that letter alone or at least can t you refrain from read it aloud. i ve be through it once. put it back on the desk. do you hear me. 
mr. g. irresolutely. i sh sha n t. look at g. s eye. oh pip please. i didn t mean to make you angry deed i didn t. pip i m so sorry. i know i ve waste your time. 
capt. g. grimly. you have. now will you be good enough to go if there be nothing more in my room that you be anxious to pry into. 
mr. g. put out her hand. oh pip don t look at me like that. i ve never see you look like that before and it hu urts me. i m sorry. i oughtn t to have be here at all and and and. sob. oh be good to me. be good to me. there s only you anywhere. break down in long chair hide face in cushion. 
capt. g. aside. she doesn t know how she flick me on the raw. aloud bend over chair. i didn t mean to be harsh dear i didn t really. you can stay here a long a you please and do what you please. don t cry like that. you ll make yourself sick. aside. what on earth ha come over her. aloud. darling what s the matter with you. 
mr. g. her face still hide. let me go let me go to my own room. only only say you aren t angry with me. 
capt. g. angry with you love. of course not. i be angry with myself. i d lose my temper over the saddlery don t hide your face pussy. i want to kiss it. 
bend low mr. g. slide right arm round his neck. several interlude and much sob. 
mr. g. in a whisper. i didn t mean about the jam when i come in to tell you. 
capt. g. bother the jam and the equipment. interlude. 
mr. g. still more faintly. my finger wasn t scald at all. i [ want to speak to you about about something else and i didn t know how. 
capt. g. speak away then. look into her eye. eh. wha at. minnie. here don t go away. you don t mean. 
mr. g. hysterically back to portiere and hide her face in it fold. the the almost inevitable consequence. flit through portiere a g. attempt to catch her and bolt her self in her own room. 
capt. g. his arm full of portiere. oh. sit down heavily in chair. i m a brute a pig a bully and a blackguard. my poor poor little darling. make to be amuse only. 
the valley of the shadow know good and evil. 
scene. the gadsbys bungalow in the plain in june. punkah cooly asleep in veranda where captain gadsby be walk up and down. doctor s trap in porch. junior chaplain drift generally and uneasily through the house. time. o a. m. heat degree in veranda. 
doctor. come into veranda and touch g. on the shoulder. you have good go in and see her now. 
capt. g. the color of good cigar ash. eh wha at. oh yes of course. what do you say. 
doctor. syllable by syllable. go in to the room and see her. she want to speak to you. aside testily. i shall have him on my hand next. 
junior chaplain. in half light din room. isn t there any. 
doctor. savagely. hsb you little fool. 
junior chaplain. let me do my work. gadsby stop a minute i. edge after g. 
doctor. wait till she send for you at least at least. man alive he ll kill you if you go in there. what be you bother him for. 
junior chaplain. come into veranda. i ve give him a stiff brandy peg. he want it. you ve forget him for the last ten hour and forget yourself too. 
g. enter bedroom which be light by one night lamp. ayah on the floor pretend to be asleep. 
voice. from the bed. all down the street such bonfire. ayah go and put them out. appealingly. how can i sleep with an installation of the c. i. e. in my room. no not c. i. e. something else. what be it. 
capt. g. try to control his voice. minnie i m here. bend over bed. don t you know me minnie. it s me it s phil it s your husband. 
voice. mechanically. it s me it s phil it s your husband. 
capt. g. she doesn t know me. it s your own husband darling. 
voice. your own husband darling. 
ayah. with an inspiration. memsahib understand all i say. 
capt. g. make her understand me then quick. 
ayah. hand on mr. g. s fore head. memsahib. captain sahib here. 
voice. salaem do. fretfully. i know i m not fit to be see. 
ayah. aside to g. say marneen same a breakfash. 
capt. g. good morning little woman. how be we today. 
voice. that s phil. poor old phil. viciously. phil you fool i can t see you. come near. 
capt. g. minnie. minnie. it s me you know me. 
voice. mockingly. of course i do. who doe not know the man who be so cruel to his wife almost the only one he ever have. 
capt. g. yes dear. yes of course of course. but win t you speak to him. he want to speak to you so much. 
voice. they d never let him in. the doctor would give darwaza band even if he be in the house. he ll never come. despairingly. o juda. juda. juda. 
capt. g. put out his arm. they have let him in and he always be in the house oh my love don t you know me. 
voice. in a half chant. and it come to pas at the eleventh hour that this poor soul repent. it knock at the gate but they be shut tight a a plaster a great burn plaster. they have paste our marriage certificate all across the door and it be make of red hot iron people really ought to be more careful you know. 
capt. g. what be i to do. take her in his arm. minnie. speak to me to phil. 
voice. what shall i say. oh tell me what to say before it s too late. they be all go away and i can t say anything. 
capt. g. say you know me. only say you know me. 
doctor. who ha enter quietly. for pity s sake don t take it too much to heart gadsby. it s this way sometimes. they win t recognize. they say all sort of queer thing don t you see. 
capt. g. all right. all right. go away now. she ll recognize me. you re bother her. she must mustn t she. 
doctor. she will before have i your leave to try. 
capt. g. anything you please so long a she ll know me. it s only a question of hour isn t it. 
doctor. professionally. while there s life there s hope y know. but don t build on it. 
capt. g. i don t. pull her together if it s possible. aside. what have i do to deserve this. 
doctor. bend over bed. now mr. gadsby. we shall be all right tomorrow. you must take it or i sha n t let phil see you. it isn t nasty be it. 
voice. medicine. always more medicine. can t you leave me alone. 
capt. g. oh leave her in peace doc. 
doctor. step back aside. may i be forgive if i ve do wrong. aloud. in a few minute she ought to be sensible. but i daren t tell you to look for anything. it s only. 
capt. g. what. go on man. 
doctor. in a whisper. force the last rally. 
capt. g. then leave u alone. 
doctor. don t mind what she say at first if you can. they they they turn against those they love most sometimes in this. it s hard but. 
capt. g. be i her husband or be you. leave u alone for what time we have together. 
voice. confidentially. and we be engage quite suddenly emma. i assure you that i never think of it for a moment. but oh my little me. i don t know what i should have do if he hadn t propose. 
capt. g. she think of that deercourt girl before she think of me. aloud. minnie. 
voice. not from the shop mummy dear. you can get the real leaf from kaintu and. laugh weakly. never mind about the blossom dead white silk be only fit for widow and i win t wear it. it s a bad a a wind sheet. a long pause. 
capt. g. i never ask a favor yet. if there be anybody to listen to me let her know me even if i die too. 
voice. very faintly. pip pip dear. 
capt. g. i m here darling. 
voice. what ha happen. they ve be bother me so with medicine and thing and they wouldn t let you come and see me. i be never ill before. be i ill now. 
capt. g. you you aren t quite well. 
voice. how funny. have i be ill long. 
capt. g. some day. but you ll be all right in a little time. 
voice. do you think so pip. i don t feel well and oh. what have they do to my hair. 
capt. g. i d d on t know. 
voice. they ve cut it off. what a shame. 
capt. g. it must have be to make your head cool. 
voice. just like a boy s wig. don t i look horrid. 
capt. g. never look pretty in your life dear. aside. how be i to ask her to say goodbye. 
voice. i don t feel pretty. i feel very ill. my heart win t work. it s nearly dead inside me and there s a funny feel in my eye. everything seem the same distance you and the almirah and the table inside my eye or mile away. what doe it mean pip. 
capt. g. you re a little feverish sweetheart very feverish. break down. my love. my love. how can i let you go. 
voice. i think so. why didn t you tell me that at first. 
capt. g. what. 
voice. that i be go to die. 
capt. g. but you aren t. you sha n t. 
ayah to punkah coolie. step into veranda after a glance at the bed. punkah chor do. stop pull the punkah. 
voice. it s hard pip. so very very hard after one year just one year. wail. and i m only twenty. most girl aren t even marry at twenty. can t they do anything to help me. i don t want to die. 
capt. g. hush dear. you win t. 
voice. what s the use of talk. help me. you ve never fail me yet. oh phil help me to keep alive. feverishly. i don t believe you wish me to live. you weren t a bite sorry when that horrid baby thing die. i wish i d kill it. 
capt. g. draw his hand across his forehead. it s more than a man s mean to bear it s not right. aloud. minnie love i d die for you if it would help. 
voice. no more death. there s enough already. pip don t you die too. 
capt. g. i wish i dare. 
voice. it say. till death do u part. nothing after that and so it would be no use. it stop at the die. why doe it stop there. only such a very short life too. pip i m sorry we marry. 
capt. g. no. anything but that min. 
voice. because you ll forget and i ll forget. oh pip don t forget. i always love you though i be cross sometimes. if i ever do anything that you didn t like say you forgive me now. 
capt. g. you never do darling. on my soul and honor you never do. i haven t a thing to forgive you. 
voice. i sulk for a whole week about those petunia. with a laugh. what a little wretch i be and how grieve you be. forgive me that pp. 
capt. g. there s nothing to forgive. it be my fault. they be too near the drive. for god s sake don t talk so minnie. there s such a lot to say and so little time to say it in. 
voice. say that you ll always love me until the end. 
capt. g. until the end. carry away. it s a lie. it must be because we ve love each other. this isn t the end. 
voice. relapse into semi delirium. my church service ha an ivory cross on the back and it say so so it must be true. till death do u part. but that s a lie. with a parody of g. s manner. a damn lie. recklessly. yes i can swear a well a a trooper pip. i can t make my head think though. that s because they cut off my hair. how can one think with one s head all fuzzy. pleadingly. hold me pip. keep me with you always and always. relapse. but if you marry the thorniss girl when i m dead i ll come back and howl under our bedroom window all night. oh bother. you ll think i m a jackal. pip what time be it. 
capt. g. a little before the dawn dear. 
voice. i wonder where i shall be this time tomorrow. 
capt. g. would you like to see the padre. 
voice. why should i. he d tell me that i be go to heaven. and that wouldn t be true because you be here. do you recollect when he upset the cream ice all over his trouser at the gassers tennis. 
capt. g. yes dear. 
voice. i often wonder whether he get another pair of trouser. but then his be so shiny all over that you really couldn t tell unless you be tell. let s call him in and ask. 
capt. g. gravely. no. i don t think he d like that. your head comfy sweetheart. 
voice. faintly with a sigh of contentment. yeth. gracious pip when do you shave last. your chin s bad than the barrel of a musical box. no don t lift it up. i like it. a pause. you say you ve never cry at all. you re cry all over my cheek. 
capt. g. i i i can t help it dear. 
voice. how funny. i couldn t cry now to save my life. g. shiver. i want to sing. 
capt. g. win t it tire you. good not perhaps. 
voice. why. i win t be bother about. begin in a hoarse quaver. 
minnie bake oaten cake minnie brew ale all because her johnnie s come home from the sea. that s parade pip. and she grow red a a rise who be so pale. and be you sure the church clock go. say she. 
pettishly. i know i couldn t take the last note. how do the bass chord run. put out her hand and begin play piano on the sheet. 
capt. g. catch up hand. ahh. don t do that pussy if you love me. 
voice. love you. of course i do. who else should it be. a pause. 
voice. very clearly. pip i m go now. something s choke me cruelly. indistinctly. into the dark without you my heart but it s a lie dear we mustn t believe it. forever and ever live or dead. don t let me go my husband hold me tight. they can t whatever happen. a cough. pip my pip. not for always and so soon. voice cease. 
pause of ten minute. g. bury his face in the side of the bed while ayah bend over bed from opposite side and feel mr. g. s breast and forehead. 
capt. g. rise. doctor sahib ko salaam do. 
ayah. still by bedside with a shriek. ail ail tuta phuta. my memsahib. not get not have get. pusseena agyal. the sweat ha come. fiercely to g. tum jao doctor sahib ko jaldi. you go to the doctor. oh my memsahib. 
doctor. enter hastily. come away gadsby. bend over bed. eh. the dev what inspire you to stop the punkah. get out man go away wait outside. go. here ayah. over his shoulder to g. mind i promise nothing. 
the dawn break a g. stumble into the garden. 
capt. m. rehung up at the gate on his way to parade and very soberly. old man how go. 
capt. g. daze. i don t quite know. stay a bite. have a drink or something. don t run away. you re just get amuse. ha. ha. 
capt. m. aside. what be i let in for. gaddy ha age ten year in the night. 
capt. g. slowly finger charger s headstall. your curb s too loose. 
capt. m. so it be. put it straight will you. aside. i shall be late for parade. poor gaddy. 
capt. g. link and unlinks curb chain aimlessly and finally stand star toward the veranda. the day brighten. 
doctor. knock out of professional gravity tramp across flower bed and shake g s hand. it it s it s. gadsby there s a fair chance a dash fair chance. the flicker y know. the sweat y know i saw how it would be. the punkah y know. deuced clever woman that ayah of yours. stop the punkah just at the right time. a dash good chance. no you don t go in. we ll pull her through yet i promise on my reputation under providence. send a man with this note to bingle. two head good than one. specially the ayah. we ll pull her round. retreat hastily to house. 
capt. g. his head on neck of m. s charger. jack. i bub bu believe i m go to make a bu bub bloody exhibitiod of byself. 
capt. m. sniff openly and feel in his leave cuff. i b b believe i b do it already. old bad what cad i say. i b a please a cod dab you gaddy. you re one big idiot and i b adother. pull himself together. sit tight. here come the devil dodger. 
junior chaplain. who be not in the doctor s confidence. we we be only men in these thing gadsby. i know that i can say nothing now to help. 
capt. m. jealously. then don t say it leave him alone. it s not bad enough to croak over. here gaddy take the chit to bingle and ride hell for leather. it ll do you good. i can t go. 
junior chaplain. do him good. smile. give me the chit and i ll drive. let him lie down. your horse be block my cart please. 
capt. m. slowly without rein back. i beg your pardon i ll apologize. on paper if you like. 
junior chaplain. flick m. s charger. that ll do thank. turn in gadsby and i ll bring bingle back ahem hell for leather. 
capt. m. solus. it would have serve me right if he d cut me across the face. he can drive too. i shouldn t care to go that pace in a bamboo cart. what a faith he must have in his maker of harness. come hup you brute. gallop off to parade blow his nose a the sun rise. 
interval of five week. 
mr. g. very white and pinch in morning wrapper at breakfast table. how big and strange the room look and how glad i be to see it again. what dust though. i must talk to the servant. sugar pip. i ve almost forget. seriously. wasn t i very ill. 
capt. g. ill than i like. tenderly. oh you bad little pussy what a start you give me. 
mr. g. i ll never do it again. 
capt. g. you d good not. and now get those poor pale cheek pink again or i shall be angry. don t try to lift the urn. you ll upset it. wait. come round to head of table and lift urn. 
mr. g. quickly. khitmatgar howarchikhana see kettly lao. butler get a kettle from the cook house. draw down g. s face to her own. pip dear i remember. 
capt. g. what. 
mr. g. that last terrible night. 
capt. g. then just you forget all about it. 
mr. g. softly her eye fill. never. it ha bring u very close together my husband. there. interlude. i m go to give junda a saree. 
capt. g. i give her fifty dibs. 
mr. g. so she tell me. it be a normous reward. be i worth it. several interlude. don t. here s the khitmatgar. two lump or one sir. 
the swell of jordan. 
if thou hast run with the footman and they have weary thee then how canst thou contend with horse. and if in the land of peace wherein thou trustedst they weary thee then how wilt thou do in the swell of jordan. 
scene. the gadsbys bungalow in the plain on a january morning. mr. g. argue with bearer in back veranda. 
capt. m. ride up. 
capt. m. mornin mr. gadsby. how s the infant phenomenon and the proud proprietor. 
mr. g. you ll find them in the front veranda. go through the house. i m martha just now. 
capt. m cumber about with care of khitmatgars. i fly. 
pass into front veranda where gadsbv be watch gadsby junior age ten month crawl about the mat. 
capt. m. what s the trouble gaddy spoil an honest man s europe morning this way. see g. junior. by jove that yearling s comin on amazingly. any amount of bone below the knee there. 
capt. g. yes he s a healthy little scoundrel. don t you think his hair s grow. 
capt. m. let s have a look. hi. hst come here general luck and we ll report on you. 
mr. g. within. what absurd name will you give him next. why do you call him that. 
capt. m. isn t he our inspector general of cavalry. doesn t he come down in his seventeen two perambulator every morning the pink hussar parade. don t wriggle brigadier. give u your private opinion on the way the third squadron go past. trifle rag weren t they. 
capt. g. a big set of tailor than the new draft i don t wish to see. they ve give me more than my fair share knock the squadron out of shape. it s sicken. 
capt. m. when you re in command you ll do good young un. can tyou walk yet. grip my finger and try. to g. twon t hurt his hock will it. 
capt. g. oh no. don t let him flop though or he ll lick all the black off your boot. 
mr. g. within. who s destroy mg my son s character. 
capt. m. and my godson s. i m ashamed of you gaddy. punch your father in the eye jack. don t you stand it. hit him again i. 
capt. g. sotto voce. put the butcha down and come to the end of the veranda. i d rather the wife didn t hear just now. 
capt. m. you look awf ly serious. anything wrong. 
capt. g. depend on your view entirely. i say jack you win t think more hardly of me than you can help will you. come further this way. the fact of the matter be that i ve make up my mind at least i m think seriously of cut the service. 
capt. m. hwhatt. 
capt. g. don t shout. i m go to send in my paper. 
capt. m. you. be you mad. 
capt. g. no only marry. 
capt. m. look here. what s the mean of it all. you never intend to leave u. you can t. isn t the best squadron of the best regiment of the best cavalry in all the world good enough for you. 
capt. g. jerk his head over his shoulder. she doesn t seem to thrive in this god forsake country and there s the butcha to be consider and all that you know. 
capt. m. doe she say that she doesn t like india. 
capt. g. that s the bad of it. she win t for fear of leave me. 
capt. m. what be the hill make for. 
capt. g. not for my wife at any rate. 
capt. m. you know too much gaddy and i don t like you any the good for it. 
capt. g. never mind that. she want england and the butcha would be all the good for it. i m go to chuck. you don t understand. 
capt. m. hotly. i understand this. one hundred and thirty seven new horse to be lick into shape somehow before luck come round again. a hairy heel draft who ll give more trouble than the horse. a camp next cold weather for a certainty. ourselves the first on the roster. the russian shindy ready to come to a head at five minute notice and you the best of u all back out of it all. think a little gaddy. you win t do it. 
capt. g. hang it a man ha some duty toward his family i suppose. 
capt. m. i remember a man though who tell me the night after amdheran when we be picket under jagai and he d leave his sword by the way do you ever pay ranken for that sword. in an utmanzai s head that man tell me that he d stick by me and the pink a long a he live. i don t blame him for not stick by me i m not much of a man but i do blame him for not stick by the pink hussar. 
capt. g. uneasily. we be little more than boy then. can t you see jack how thing stand. tisn t a if we be serve for our bread. we ve all of u more or le get the filthy lucre. i m lucky than some perhaps. there s no call for me to serve on. 
capt. m. none in the world for you or for u except the regimental. if you don t choose to answer to that of course. 
capt. g. don t be too hard on a man. you know that a lot of u only take up the thing for a few year and then go back to town and catch on with the rest. 
capt. m. not lot and they aren t some of u. 
capt. g. and then there be one s affair at home to be consider my place and the rent and all that. i don t suppose my father can last much long and that mean the title and so on. 
capt. m. fraid you win t be enter in the stud book correctly unless you go home. take six month then and come out in october. if i could slay off a brother or two i s pose i should be a marquis of sort. any fool can be that. but it need men gaddy men like you to lead flank squadron properly. don t you delude yourself into the belief that you re go home to take your place and prance about among pink nose kabuli dowager. you aren t build that way. i know good. 
capt. g. a man ha a right to live his life a happily a he can. you aren t marry. 
capt. m. no praise be to providence and the one or two woman who have have the good sense to jawab me. 
capt. g. then you don t know what it be to go into your own room and see your wife s head on the pillow and when everything else be safe and the house shut up for the night to wonder whether the roof beam win t give and kill her. 
capt. m. aside. revelation first and second. aloud. so o. i know a man who get squiffy at our mess once and confide to me that he never help his wife on to her horse without pray that she d break her neck before she come back. all husband aren t alike you see. 
capt. g. what on earth ha that to do with my case. the man must ha be mad or his wife a bad a they make em. 
capt. m. aside. no fault of yours if either weren t all you say. you ve forget the time when you be insane about the herriott woman. you always be a good hand at forget. aloud. not more mad than men who go to the other extreme. be reasonable gaddy. your roof beam be sound enough. 
capt. g. that be only a way of speak. i ve be uneasy and worry about the wife ever since that awful business three year ago when i nearly lose her. can you wonder. 
capt. m. oh a shell never fall twice in the same place. you ve pay your toll to misfortune why should your wife be pick out more than anybody else s. 
capt. g. i can talk just a reasonably a you can but you don t understand you don t understand. and then there s the butcha. deuce know where the ayah take him to sit in the even. he ha a bite of a cough. haven t you notice it. 
capt. m. bosh. the brigadier s jump out of his skin with pure condition. he s get a muzzle like a rise leaf and the chest of a two year old. what s demoralize you. 
capt. g. funk. that s the long and the short of it. funk. 
capt. m. but what be there to funk. 
capt. g. everything. it s ghastly. 
capt. m. ah. i see. you don t want to fight and by jingo when we do you ve get the kid you ve get the wife you ve get the money too. that s about the case eh. 
capt. g. i suppose that s it. but it s not for myself. it s because of them. at least i think it be. 
capt. m. be you sure. look at the matter in a cold blood light the wife be provide for even if you be wipe out tonight. she ha an ancestral home to go to money and the brigadier to carry on the illustrious name. 
capt. g. then it be for myself or because they be part of me. you don t see it. my life s so good so pleasant a it be that i want to make it quite safe. can t you understand. 
capt. m. perfectly. shelter pit for the off cer s charger a they say in the line. 
capt. g. and i have everything to my hand to make it so. i m sick of the strain and the worry for their sake out here. and there isn t a single real difficulty to prevent my drop it altogether. it ll only cost me jack i hope you ll never know the shame that i ve be go through for the past six month. 
capt. m. hold on there. i don t wish to he tell. every man ha his mood and tense sometimes. 
capt. g. laugh bitterly. ha he. what do you call crane over to see where your near fore land. 
capt. m. in my case it mean that i have be on the considerable bend and have come to parade with a head and a hand. it pass in three stride. 
capt. g. lower voice. it never pass with me jack. i m always think about it. phil gadsby funk a fall on parade. sweet picture isn t it. draw it for me. 
capt. m. gravely. heaven forbid. a man like you can t be a bad a that. a fall be no nice thing but one never give it a think. 
capt. g. doesn t one. wait till you ve get a wife and a youngster of your own and then you ll know how the roar of the squadron behind you turn you cold all up the back. 
capt. m. aside. and this man lead at amdheran after bagal deasin go under and we be all mix up together and he come out of the snow drip like a butch. aloud. skittle. the men can always open out and you can always pick your way more or le. we haven t the dust to bother u a the men have and whoever hear of a horse step on a man. 
capt. g. never a long a he can see. but do they open out for poor errington. 
capt. m. oh this be childish. 
capt. g. i know it be bad than that. i don t care. you ve ride van loo. be he the sort of brute to pick his way specially when we re come up in column of troop with any pace on. 
capt. m. once in a blue moon do we gallop in column of troop and then only to save time. aren t three length enough for you. 
capt. g. yes quite enough. they just allow for the full development of the smash. i m talk like a cur i know. but i tell you that for the past three month i ve felt every hoof of the squadron in the small of my back every time that i ve lead. 
capt. m. but gaddy this be awful. 
capt. g. isn t it lovely. isn t it royal. a captain of the pink hussar water up his charger before parade like the blast booze colonel of a black regiment. 
capt. m. you never do. 
capt. g. once only. he squelch like a mussuck and the troop sergeant major cock his eye at me. you know old haffy s eye. i be afraid to do it again. 
capt. m. i should think so. that be the best way to rupture old van loo s tummy and make him crumple you up. you know that. 
capt. g. i didn t care. it take the edge off him. 
capt. m. take the edge off him. gaddy you you you mustn t you know. think of the men. 
capt. g. that s another thing i be afraid of. d you s pose they know. 
capt. m. let s hope not. but they re deadly quick to spot skirm little thing of that kind. see here old man send the wife home for the hot weather and come to kashmir with me. we ll start a boat on the dal or cross the rhotang shoot ibex or loaf which you please. only come. you re a bite off your oat and you re talk nonsense. look at the colonel swag belly rascal that he be. he ha a wife and no end of a bow window of his own. can any one of u ride round him chalkstone and all. i can t and i think i can shove a crock along a bite. 
capt. g. some men be different. i haven t any nerve. lord help me i haven t the nerve. i ve take up a hole and a half to get my knee well under the wallet. i can t help it. i m so afraid of anything happen to me. on my soul i ought to be break in front of the squadron for cowardice. 
capt. m. ugly word that. i should never have the courage to own up. 
capt. g. i mean to lie about my reason when i begin but i ve get out of the habit of lie to you old man. jack you win t. but i know you win t. 
capt. m. of course not. half aloud. the pink be pay dearly for their pride. 
capt. g. eh. wha at. 
capt. m. don t you know. the men have call mr. gadsby the pride of the pink hussar ever since she come to u. 
capt. g. tisn t her fault. don t think that. it s all mine. 
capt. m. what doe she say. 
capt. g. i haven t exactly put it before her. she s the best little woman in the world jack and all that but she wouldn t counsel a man to stick to his call if it come between him and her. at least i think. 
capt. m. never mind. don t tell her what you tell me. go on the peerage and land gentry tack. 
capt. g. she d see through it. she s five time clever than i be. 
capt. m. aside. then she ll accept the sacrifice and think a little bite bad of him for the rest of her day. 
capt. g. absently. i say do you despise me. 
capt. m. queer way of put it. have you ever be ask that question. think a minute. what answer use you to give. 
capt. g. so bad a that. i m not entitle to expect anything more but it s a bite hard when one s best friend turn round and. 
capt. m. so i have find. but you will have consolation bailiff and drain and liquid manure and the primrose league and perhaps if you re lucky the colonelcy of a yeomanry cav al ry regiment all uniform and no rid i believe. how old be you. 
capt. g. thirty three. i know it s. 
capt. m. at forty you ll be a fool of a j. p. landlord. at fifty you ll own a bath chair and the brigadier if he take after you will be flutter the dovecote of what s the particular dunghill you re go to. also mr. gadsby will be fat. 
capt. g. limply. this be rather more than a joke. 
capt. m. d you think so. isn t cut the service a joke. it generally take a man fifty year to arrive at it. you re quite right though. it be more than a joke. you ve manage it in thirty three. 
capt. g. don t make me feel bad than i do. will it satisfy you if i own that i be a shirker a skrim shanker and a coward. 
capt. m. it will not because i m the only man in the world who can talk to you like this without be knock down. you mustn t take all that i ve say to heart in this way. i only speak a lot of it at least out of pure selfishness because because oh damn it all old man i don t know what i shall do without you. of course you ve get the money and the place and all that and there be two very good reason why you should take care of yourself. 
capt. g. doesn t make it any sweet. i m back out i know i be. i always have a soft drop in me somewhere and i daren t risk any danger to them. 
capt. m. why in the world should you. you re bind to think of your family bind to think. er hmm. if i wasn t a young son i d go too be shoot if i wouldn t. 
capt. g. thank you jack. it s a kind lie but it s the black you ve tell for some time. i know what i m do and i m go into it with my eye open. old man i can t help it. what would you do if you be in my place. 
capt. m. aside. couldn t conceive any woman get permanently between me and the regiment. aloud. can t say. very likely i should do no good. i m sorry for you awf ly sorry but if them s your sentiment i believe i really do that you be act wisely. 
capt. g. do you. i hope you do. in a whisper. jack be very sure of yourself before you marry. i m an ungrateful ruffian to say this but marriage even a good a marriage a mine ha be hamper a man s work it cripple his sword arm and oh it play hell with his notion of duty. sometimes good and sweet a she be sometimes i could wish that i have keep my freedom no i don t mean that exactly. 
mr. g. come down veranda. what be you wag your head over pip. 
capt. m. turn quickly. me a usual. the old sermon. your husband be recommend me to get marry. never saw such a one ideaed man. 
mr. g. well why don t you. i dare say you would make some woman very happy. 
capt. g. there s the law and the prophet jack. never mind the regiment. make a woman happy. aside. o lord. 
capt. m. we ll see. i must be off to make a troop cook desperately unhappy. i win t have the wily hussar feed on government bullock train shinbone. hastily. surely black ant can t be good for the brigadier. he s pick em off the mat and eat em. here senor comandante don grubbynose come and talk to me. lift g. junior in his arm. want my watch. you win t be able to put it into your mouth but you can try. g. junior drop watch break dial and hand. 
mr. g. oh captain mafflin i be so sorry. jack you bad bad little villain. ahhh. 
capt. m. it s not the least consequence i assure you. he d treat the world in the same way if he could get it into his hand. everything s make to be play with and break isn t it young un. * * * * * *. 
mr. g. mafflin didn t at all like his watch be break though he be too polite to say so. it be entirely his fault for give it to the child. dem little pud be werry werry feeble aren t dey by jack in de box. to g. what do he want to see you for. 
capt. g. regimental shop a usual. 
mr. g. the regiment. always the regiment. on my word i sometimes feel jealous of mafflin. 
capt. g. wearily. poor old jack. i don t think you need. isn t it time for the butcha to have his nap. bring a chair out here dear. i ve get some thing to talk over with you. 
this be the end of the story of the gadsbys. 
volume viii from mine own people. 
bimi namgay doola the recrudescence of imray moti guj mutineer. 
bimi. 
the orangoutang in the big iron cage lash to the sheep pen begin the discussion. the night be stiflingly hot and a han breitmann and i pass him drag our bed to the fore peak of the steamer he rouse himself and chatter obscenely. he have be catch somewhere in the malayan archipelago and be go to england to be exhibit at a shill a head. for four day he have struggle yell and wrench at the heavy iron bar of his prison without cease and have nearly slay a lascar incautious enough to come within reach of the great hairy paw. 
it would he well for you mine friend if you be a liddle seasick say han breitmann pause by the cage. you haf too much ego in your cosmos. 
the orangoutang s arm slide out negligently from between the bar. no one would have believe that it would make a sudden snake like rush at the german s breast. the thin silk of the sleep suit tear out. han step back unconcernedly to pluck a banana from a bunch hang close to one of the boat. 
too much ego say he peel the fruit and offer it to the cage devil who be rend the silk to tatter. 
then we lay out our bed in the bow among the sleep lascar to catch any breeze that the pace of the ship might give u. the sea be like smoky oil except where it turn to fire under our forefoot and whirl back into the dark in smear of dull flame. there be a thunderstorm some mile away. we could see the glimmer of the lightning. the ship s cow distress by the heat and the smell of the ape beast in the cage low unhappily from time to time in exactly the same key a the lookout man at the bow answer the hourly call from the bridge. the trample tune of the engine be very distinct and the jar of the ash lift a it be tip into the sea hurt the procession of hush noise. han lay down by my side and light a good night cigar. this be naturally the begin of conversation. he own a voice a soothe a the wash of the sea and store of experience a vast a the sea itself. for his business in life be to wander up and down the world collect orchid and wild beast and ethnological specimen for german and american dealer. i watch the glow end of his cigar wax and wane in the gloom a the sentence rise and fell till i be nearly asleep. the orangoutang trouble by some dream of the forest of his freedom begin to yell like a soul in purgatory and to wrench madly at the bar of the cage. 
if he be out now dere would not be much of u leave hereabouts say han lazily. he scream good. see now how i shall tame him when he stop himself. 
there be a pause in the outcry and from han mouth come an imitation of a snake s hiss so perfect that i almost spring to my foot. the sustain murderous sound run along the deck and the wrench at the bar cease. the orangoutang be quake in an ecstasy of pure terror. 
dot stop him say han. i learn dot trick in mogoung tanjong when i be collect liddle monkey for some people in berlin. efery one in d world be afraid of d monkey except d snake. so i blay snake against monkey and he keep quite still. dere be too much ego in his cosmos. dot be d soul custom of monkey. be you asleep or will you listen and i will tell a dale dot you shall not pelief. 
there s no tale in the wide world that i can t believe i say. 
if you have learn pelief you haf learn somedings. now i shall try your pelief. good. when i be collect dose liddle monkey it be in or und i be in d island of d archipelago over dere in d dark he point southward to new guinea generally mein gott. i would sooner collect life red devil than liddle monkey. when dey do not bite off your thumb dey be always die from nostalgia homesick for dey haf d imperfect soul which be midway arrest in defelopment und too much ego. i be dere for nearly a year und dere i find a man dot be call bertran. he be a frenchman und he be a goot man naturalist to the bone. dey say he be an escape convict but he be a naturalist und dot be enough for me. he would call all her life beast from d forest und dey would come. i say he be st. francis of assisi in a new dransmigration produce und he laugh und say he have never preach to d fish. he sell dem for trepang beche de m. 
und dot man who be king of beast tame men he have in d house shush such anoder a dot devil animal in d cage a great orangoutang dot think he be a man. he haf find him when he be a child d orangoutang und he be child and brother and opera comique all round to bertran. he have his room in dot house not a cage but a room mit a bed and sheet and he would go to bed and get up in d morning and smoke his cigar und eat his dinner mit bertran und walk mit him hand in hand which be most horrible. herr gott. i haf see dot beast throw himself back in his chair and laugh when bertran haf make fun of me. he be not a beast. he be a man and he talk to bertran und bertran comprehend for i bave see dem. und he be always politeful to me except when i talk too long to bertran und say nod at all to him. den he would pull me away dis great dark devil mit his enormous paw shush a if i be a child. he be not a beast he be a man. dis i saw pefore i know him three month und bertran he haf saw the same. and bimi d orangoutang haf understand u both mit his cigar between his big dog teeth und d blue gum. 
i be dere a year dere und at dere oder island somedimes for monkey and somedimes for butterfly und orchits. one time bertran say to me dot he will be marry because he ha find a girl dot be goot and he inquire if this marry idea be right. i would not say pecause it be not me dot be go to be marry. den he go off court d girl she be a half caste french girl very pretty. haf you get a new light for my cigar. oof. very pretty. only i say haf you think of bimi. if he pull me away when i talk to you what will he do to your wife. he will pull her in piece. if i be you bertran i would gif my wife for wed present d stuff figure of bimi. by dot time i bad learn somedings about d monkey people. shoot him. say bertran. he be your beast i say. if he be mine he would be shoot now. 
den i felt at d back of my neck d finger of bimi. mein gott. i tell you dot he talk through dose finger. it be d deaf and dumb alphabet all gomplete. he slide his hairy arm round my neck and he tilt up my chin and look into my face shust to see if i understand his talk so well a he understand mine. see now dere. say bertran und you would shoot him while he be cuddle you. dot be d teuton ingrate. 
but i know dot i have make bimi a life s enemy pecause his finger haf talk murder through the back of my neck. next dime i see bimi dere be a pistol in my belt und he touch it once and i open de breech to show him it be load. he haf see d liddle monkey kill in d wood and he understand. 
so bertran he be marry and he forget clean about bimi dot be skippin alone on the beach mit d haf of a human soul in his belly. i be see him skip und he take a big bough und thrash d sand till he haf make a great hole like a grave. so i say to bertran for any sake kill bimi. he be mad mit d jealousy. 
bertran haf say. he be not mad at all. he haf obey and love my wife und if she speak he will get her slipper und he look at his wife across d room. she be a very pretty girl. 
den i say to him. dost thou pretend to know monkey und dis beast dot be lash himself mad upon d sand pecause you do not talk to him. shoot him when he come to d house for he haf d light in his eye dot mean kill und kill. bimi come to d house but dere be no light in his eye. it be all put away cunning so cunning und he fetch d girl her slipper and bertran turn to me und say. dost thou know him in nine month more dan i haf know him n twelve year. shall a child stab his fader. i have feed him und he be my child. do not speak this nonsense to my wife or to me any more. 
dot next day bertran come to my house to help me make some wood case for d specimen und he tell me dot he haf leave his wife a liddle while mit bimi in d garden. den i finish my case quick und i say. let u go to your house und get a trink. he laugh und say. come along dry man. 
his wife be not in d garden und bimi do not come when bertran call. und his wife do not come when he call und he knock at her bedroom door und dot be shut tight lock. den he look at me und his face be white. i break down d door mit my shoulder und d thatch of d roof be tear into a great hole und d sun come in upon d floor. haf you ever see paper in d waste basket or card at whist on d table scatter. dere be no wife dot could be see. i tell you dere be noddings in dot room dot might be a woman. dere be stuff on d floor und dot be all. i look at dese thing und i be very sick. but bertran look a little long at what be upon the floor und d wall und d hole in d thatch. den he pegan to laugh soft and low und i know und thank god dot he be mad. he nefer cry he nefer pray. he stand still in d doorway und laugh to himself. den he say. she haf lock herself in dis room and he haf tear up d thatch. fi donc. dot be so. we will mend d thatch und wait for bimi. he will surely come. 
i tell you we wait ten day in dot house after d room be make into a room again and once or twice we saw bimi comin a liddle way from d wood. he be afraid pecause he haf do wrong. bertran call him when he be come to look on the tenth day und bimi come skip along d beach und make noise mit a long piece of nack hair in his hand. den bertran laugh and say fi donc shust a if it be a glass break upon d table. und bimi come near und bertran be honey sweet in his voice and laugh to himself. for three day he make love to bimi pecause bimi would not let himself be touch den bimi come to dinner at d same table mit u und d hair on his hand be all black und thick mit mit what have dry on his hand. bertran give him sangaree till bimi be drink and stupid und den. 
han pause to puff at his cigar. 
and then. say i. 
und den bertran kill him with his hand und i go for a walk upon d heach. it be bertran s own piziness. when i come back d ape he be dead und bertran he be die abofe him. but still he laugh a liddle und low and he be quite content. now you know d formula uf d strength of d orangoutang it be more a seven to one in relation to man. but bertran he haf kill bimi mit sooch ding a gott gif him. dot be d mericle. 
the infernal clamor in the cage recommence. aha. dot friend of ours haf still too much ego in his cosmos be quiet thou. 
han hiss long and venomously. we could hear the great beast quake in his cage. 
but why in the world didn t you help bertran instead of let him be kill. i ask. 
my friend say han composedly stretch himself to slumber it be not nice even to mineself dot i should lif after i have see dot room wit d hole in d thatch. und bertran he be her husband. good night und sleep well. 
namgay doola. 
once upon a time there be a king who live on the road to thibet very many mile in the himalaya mountain. his kingdom be foot above the sea and exactly four mile square but most of the mile stand on end owe to the nature of the country. his revenue be rather le than pound yearly and they be expend on the maintenance of one elephant and a stand army of five men. he be tributary to the indian government who allow him certain sum for keep a section of the himalaya thibet road in repair. he further increase his revenue by sell timber to the railway company for he would cut the great deodar tree in his own forest and they fell thunder into the sutlej river and be sweep down to the plain mile away and become railway tie. now and again this king whose name doe not matter would mount a ring streak horse and ride score of mile to simlatown to confer with the lieutenant governor on matter of state or assure the viceroy that his sword be at the service of the queen empress. then the viceroy would cause a ruffle of drum to be sound and the ring streak horse and the cavalry of the state two men in tatter and the herald who bore the silver stick before the king would trot back to their own place which be between the tail of a heaven climb glacier and a dark birch forest. 
now from such a king always remember that he possess one veritable elephant and could count his descent for year i expect when it be my fate to wander through his dominion no more than mere license to live. 
the night have close in rain and roll cloud blot out the light of the village in the valley. forty mile away untouched by cloud or storm the white shoulder of dongo pa the mountain of the council of the god uphold the even star. the monkey sing sorrowfully to each other a they hunt for dry root in the fern drape tree and the last puff of the day wind bring from the unseen village the scent of damp wood smoke hot cake drip undergrowth and rot pine cone. that smell be the true smell of the himalaya and if it once get into the blood of a man he will at the last forget everything else return to the hill to die. the cloud close and the smell go away and there remain nothing in all the world except chill white mist and the boom of the sutlej river. 
a fat tail sheep who do not want to die bleat lamentably at my tent door. he be scuffle with the prime minister and the director general of public education and he be a royal gift to me and my camp servant. i express my thank suitably and inquire if i might have audience of the king. the prime minister readjust his turban it have fall off in the struggle and assure me that the king would be very please to see me. therefore i dispatch two bottle a a foretaste and when the sheep have enter upon another incarnation climb up to the king s palace through the wet. he have send his army to escort me but it stay to talk with my cook. soldier be very much alike all the world over. 
the palace be a four room white wash mud and timber house the fine in all the hill for a day s journey. the king be dress in a purple velvet jacket white muslin trouser and a saffron yellow turban of price. he give me audience in a little carpet room open off the palace courtyard which be occupy by the elephant of state. the great beast be sheet and anchor from trunk to tail and the curve of his back stand out against the sky line. 
the prime minister and the director general of public instruction be present to introduce me. but all the court have be dismiss l the two bottle aforesaid should corrupt their moral. the king cast a wreath of heavy scent flower round my neck a i bow and inquire how my honor presence have the felicity to be. i say that through see his auspicious countenance the mist of the night have turn into sunshine and that by reason of his beneficent sheep his good deed would be remember by the god. he say that since i have set my magnificent foot in his kingdom the crop would probably yield seventy per cent more than the average. i say that the fame of the king have reach to the four corner of the earth and that the nation gnash their teeth when they hear daily of the glory of his realm and the wisdom of his moon like prime minister and lotus eye director general of public education. 
then we sit down on clean white cushion and i be at the king s right hand. three minute late he be tell me that the condition of the maize crop be something disgraceful and that the railway company would not pay him enough for his timber. the talk shift to and fro with the bottle. we discuss very many quaint thing and the king become confidential on the subject of government generally. most of all he dwell on the shortcoming of one of his subject who from what i could gather have be paralyze the executive. 
in the old day say the king i could have order the elephant yonder to trample him to death. now i must e en send him seventy mile across the hill to be try and his keep for that time would be upon the state. and the elephant eat everything. 
what be the man s crime rajah sahib. say i. 
firstly he be an outlander and no man of mine own people. secondly since of my favor i give him land upon his come he refuse to pay revenue. be i not the lord of the earth above and below entitle by right and custom to one eighth of the crop. yet this devil establish himself refuse to pay a single tax. and he bring a poisonous spawn of babe. 
cast him into jail i say. 
sahib the king answer shift a little on the cushion once and only once in these forty year sickness come upon me so that i be not able to go abroad. in that hour i make a vow to my god that i would never again cut man or woman from the light of the sun and the air of god for i perceive the nature of the punishment. how can i break my vow. be it only the lop off of a hand or a foot i should not delay. but even that be impossible now that the english have rule. one or another of my people he look obliquely at the director general of public education would at once write a letter to the viceroy and perhaps i should be deprive of that ruffle of drum. 
he unscrew the mouthpiece of his silver water pipe fit a plain amber one and pass the pipe to me. not content with refuse revenue he continue this outlander refuse also to beegar. this be the corvee or force labor on the road. and stir my people up to the like treason. yet he be if so he will an expert log snatcher. there be none good or bold among my people to clear a block of the river when the log stick fast. 
but he worship strange god say the prime minister deferentially. 
for that i have no concern say the king who be a tolerant a akbar in matter of belief. to each man his own god and the fire or mother earth for u all at the last. it be the rebellion that offend me. 
the king ha an army i suggest. ha not the king burn the man s house and leave him naked to the night dew. 
nay. a hut be a hut and it hold the life of a man. but once i send my army against him when his excuse become wearisome. of their head he brake three across the top with a stick. the other two men run away. also the gun would not shoot. 
i have see the equipment of the infantry. one third of it be an old muzzle load fowl piece with rag rust hole where the nipple should have be. one third a wirebound matchlock with a worm eat stock and one third a four bore flint duck gun without a flint. 
but it be to be remember say the king reach out for the bottle that he be a very expert log snatcher and a man of a merry face. what shall i do to him sahib. 
this be interest. the timid hill folk would a soon have refuse tax to their king a offering to their god. the rebel must be a man of character. 
if it be the king s permission i say i will not strike my tent till the third day and i will see this man. the mercy of the king be godlike and rebellion be like unto the sin of witchcraft. moreover both the bottle and another be empty. 
you have my leave to go say the king. 
next morning the crier go through the stare proclaim that there be a log jam on the river and that it behoove all loyal subject to clear it. the people pour down from their village to the moist warm valley of poppy field and the king and i go with them. 
hundred of dress deodar log have catch on a snag of rock and the river be bring down more log every minute to complete the blockade. the water snarl and wrench and worry at the timber while the population of the state prod at the near log with pole in the hope of ease the pressure. then there go up a shout of namgay doola. namgay doola. and a large red haired villager hurry up strip off his clothe a he run. 
that he be. that be the rebel. say the king. now will the dam be clear. 
but why ha he red hair. i ask since red hair among hill folk be a uncommon a blue or green. 
he be an outlander say the king. well do. oh well do. 
namgay doola have scramble on the jam and be claw out the butt of a log with a rude sort of a boat hook. it slide forward slowly a an alligator move and three or four others follow it. the green water spout through the gap. then the villager howl and shout and leap among the log pull and push the obstinate timber and the red head of namgay doola be chief among them all. the log sway and chafe and groan a fresh consignment from up stream batter the now weaken dam. it give way at last in a smother of foam race butt bob black head and a confusion indescribable a the river toss everything before it. i saw the red head go down with the last remnant of the jam and disappear between the great grind tree trunk. it rise close to the hank and blow like a grampus namgay doola wipe the water out of his eye and make obeisance to the king. 
i have time to observe the man closely. the virulent redness of his shock head and beard be most startle and in the thicket of hair twinkle above high cheek bone two very merry blue eye. he be indeed an outlander but yet a thibetan in language habit and attire. he speak the lepcha dialect with an indescribable soften of the guttural. it be not so much a lisp a an accent. 
whence comest thou. i ask wonder. 
from thibet. he point across the hill and grin. that grin go straight to my heart. mechanically i hold out my hand and namgay doola take it. no pure thibetan would have understand the mean of the gesture. he go away to look for his clothe and a he climb back to his village i hear a joyous yell that seem unaccountably familiar. it be the whoop of namgay doola. 
you see now say the king why i would not kill him. he be a bold man among my log but and he shake his head like a schoolmaster i know that before long there will be complaint of him in the court. let u return to the palace and do justice. 
it be that king s custom to judge his subject every day between eleven and three o clock. i hear him do justice equitably on weighty matter of trespass slander and a little wife steal. then his brow cloud and he summon me. 
again it be namgay doola he say despairingly. not content with refuse revenue on his own part he ha bind half his village by an oath to the like treason. never before ha such a thing befall me. nor be my tax heavy. 
a rabbit face villager with a blush rise stick behind his ear advance tremble. he have be in namgay doola s conspiracy but have tell everything and hop for the king s favor. 
oh king. say i if it be the king s will let this matter stand over till the morning. only the god can do right in a hurry and it may be that yonder villager ha lie. 
nay for i know the nature of namgay doola. but since a guest ask let the matter remain. wilt thou for my sake speak harshly to this red head outlander. he may listen to thee. 
i make an attempt that very even but for the life of me i could not keep my countenance. namgay doola grin so persuasively and begin to tell me about a big brown bear in a poppy field by the river. would i care to shoot that bear. i speak austerely on the sin of detect conspiracy and the certainty of punishment. namgay doola s face cloud for a moment. shortly afterward he withdraw from my tent and i hear him sing softly among the pine. the word be unintelligible to me but the tune like his liquid insinuate speech seem the ghost of something strangely familiar. 
dir hane mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
croon namgay doola again and again and i rack my brain for that lose tune. it be not till after dinner that i discover some one have cut a square foot of velvet from the centre of my best camera cloth. this make me so angry that i wander down the valley in the hope of meet the big brown bear. i could hear him grunt like a discontent pig in the poppy field a i wait shoulder deep in the dew drip indian corn to catch him after his meal. the moon be at full and draw out the scent of the tasseled crop. then i hear the anguish bellow of a himalayan cow one of the little black crummies no big than newfoundland dog. two shadow that look like a bear and her cub hurry past me. i be in the act of fire when i saw that each bore a brilliant red head. the less animal be trail something rope like that leave a dark track on the path. they be within six foot of me and the shadow of the moonlight lay velvet black on their face. velvet black be exactly the word for by all the power of moonlight they be mask in the velvet of my camera cloth. i marvel and go to bed. 
next morning the kingdom be in an uproar. namgay doola men say have go forth in the night and with a sharp knife have cut off the tail of a cow belong to the rabbit face villager who have betray him. it be sacrilege unspeakable against the holy cow. the state desire his blood but he have retreat into his hut barricade the door and window with big stone and defy the world. 
the king and i and the populace approach the hut cautiously. there be no hope of capture our man without loss of life for from a hole in the wall project the muzzle of an extremely well care for gun the only gun in the state that could shoot. namgay doola have narrowly miss a villager just before we come up. 
the stand army stand. 
it could do no more for when it advance piece of sharp shale fly from the window. to these be add from time to time shower of scald water. we saw red bead bob up and down within. the family of namgay doola be aid their sire. blood curdle yell of defiance be the only answer to our prayer. 
never say the king puff ha such a thing befall my state. next year i will certainly buy a little cannon. he look at me imploringly. 
be there any priest in the kingdom to whom he will listen. say i for a light be begin to break upon me. 
he worship his own god say the prime minister. we can but starve him out. 
let the white man approach say namgay doola from within. all others i will kill. send me the white man. 
the door be throw open and i enter the smoky interior of a thibetan hut cram with child. and every child have flame red hair. a freshgathered cow s tail lay on the floor and by it side two piece of black velvet my black velvet rudely hack into the semblance of mask. 
and what be this shame namgay doola. i ask. 
he grin more charmingly than ever. there be no shame say he. i do but cut off the tail of that man s cow. he betray me. i be mind to shoot him sahib but not to death. indeed not to death. only in the leg. 
and why at all since it be the custom to pay revenue to the king. why at all. 
by the god of my father i cannot tell say namgay doola. 
and who be thy father. 
the same that have this gun. he show me his weapon a tower musket bear date and the stamp of the honorable east india company. 
and thy father s name. say i. 
he obey and i understand whence the puzzle accent in his speech come. thimla dhula. say he excitedly. to this hour i worship his god. 
may i see that god. 
in a little while at twilight time. 
rememberest thou aught of thy father s speech. 
it be long ago. but there be one word which he say often. thus shun. then i and my brother stand upon our foot our hand to our side thus. 
even so. and what be thy mother. 
a woman of the hill. we be lepchas of darjiling but me they call an outlander because my hair be a thou seest. 
the thibetan woman his wife touch him on the arm gently. the long parley outside the fort have last far into the day. it be now close upon twilight the hour of the angelus. very solemnly the red head brat rise from the floor and form a semicircle. namgay doola lay his gun aside light a little oil lamp and set it before a recess in the wall. pull back a wisp of dirty cloth he reveal a wear brass crucifix lean against the helmet badge of a long forget east india company s regiment. thus do my father he say cross himself clumsily. the wife and child follow suit. then all together they strike up the wail cham that i hear on the hillside. 
dir bane mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
i be puzzle no long. again and again they sing a if their heart would break their version of the chorus of the wear of the green. 
they re hang men and woman too for the wear of the green. 
a diabolical inspiration come to me. one of the brat a boy about eight year old could he have be in the field last night. be watch me a he sing. i pull out a rupee hold the coin between finger and thumb and look only look at the gun lean against the wall. a grin of brilliant and perfect comprehension overspread his porringer like face. never for an instant stop the song he hold out his hand for the money and then slide the gun to my hand. i might have shoot namgay doola dead a he chant but i be satisfy. the inevitable blood instinct hold true. namgay doola draw the curtain across the recess. angelus be over. 
thus my father sing. there be much more but i have forget and i do not know the purport of even these word but it may be that the god will understand. i be not of this people and i will not pay revenue. 
and why. 
again that soul compel grin. what occupation would be to me between crop and crop. it be good than scar bear. but these people do not understand. 
he pick the mask off the floor and look in my face a simply a a child. 
by what road didst thou attain knowledge to make those deviltry. i say point. 
i cannot tell. i be but a lepcha of darjiling and yet the stuff. 
which thou hast steal say i. 
nay surely. do i steal. i desire it so. the stuff the stuff. what else should i have do with the stuff. he twist the velvet between his finger. 
but the sin of maim the cow consider that. 
oh sahib the man betray me. the heifer s tail wave in the moonlight and i have my knife. what else should i have do. the tail come off ere i be aware. sahib thou knowest more than i. 
that be true say i. stay within the door. i go to speak to the king. the population of the state be range on the hillside. i go forth and speak. 
o king say i touch this man there be two course open to thy wisdom. thou canst either hang him from a tree him and his brood till there remain no hair that be red within thy land. 
nay say the king. why should i hurt the little child. 
they have pour out of the hut and be make plump obeisance to everybody. namgay doola wait at the door with his gun across his arm. 
or thou canst discard their impiety of the cow maim raise him to honor in thy army. he come of a race that will not pay revenue. a red flame be in his blood which come out at the top of his head in that glow hair. make him chief of thy army. give him honor a may befall and full allowance of work but look to it oh king that neither he nor his hold a foot of earth from thee henceforward. fee him with word and favor and also liquor from certain bottle that thou knowest of and he will be a bulwark of defense. but deny him even a tuftlet of grass for his own. this be the nature that god ha give him. moreover he ha brother. 
the state groan unanimously. 
but if his brother come they will surely fight with each other till they die. or else the one will always give information concern the other. shall he be of thy army oh king. choose. 
the king bow his head and i say. 
come forth namgay doola and command the king s army. thy name shall no more be namgay in the mouth of men but patsay doola for a thou hast truly say i know. 
then namgay doola never christen patsay doola son of timlay doola which be tim doolan clasp the king s foot cuff the stand army and hurry in an agony of contrition from temple to temple make offering for the sin of the cattle maim. 
and the king be so please with my perspicacity that he offer to sell me a village for pound sterling. but i buy no village in the himalaya so long a one red head flare between the tail of the heaven climb glacier and the dark birch forest. 
i know that breed. 
the recrudescence of imray. 
imray have achieve the impossible. without warn for no conceivable motive in his youth and at the threshold of his career he have choose to disappear from the world which be to say the little indian station where he live. upon a day he be alive well happy and in great evidence at his club among the billiard table. upon a morning he be not and no manner of search could make sure where he might be. he have step out of his place. he have not appear at his office at the proper time and his dog cart be not upon the public road. for these reason and because he be hamper in a microscopical degree the administration of the indian empire the indian empire pause for one microscopical moment to make inquiry into the fate of imray. pond be drag well be plumb telegram be dispatch down the line of railway and to the near seaport town mile away but imray be not at the end of the drag rope nor the telegram. he be go and his place know him no more. then the work of the great indian empire sweep forward because it could not be delay and imray from be a man become a mystery such a thing a men talk over at their table in the club for a month and then forget utterly. his gun horse and cart be sell to the high bidder. his superior officer write an absurd letter to his mother say that imray have unaccountably disappear and his bungalow stand empty on the road. 
after three or four month of the scorch hot weather have go by my friend strickland of the police force saw fit to rent the bungalow from the native landlord. this be before he be engage to miss youghal an affair which ha be describe in another place and while he be pursue his investigation into native life. his own life be sufficiently peculiar and men complain of his manner and custom. there be always food in his house but there be no regular time for meal. he eat stand up and walk about whatever he might find on the sideboard and this be not good for the inside of human being. his domestic equipment be limit to six rifle three shotgun five saddle and a collection of stiff joint masheer rod big and strong than the large salmon rod. these thing occupy one half of his bungalow and the other half be give up to strickland and his dog tietjens an enormous rampur slut who sing when she be order and devour daily the ration of two men. she speak to strickland in a language of her own and whenever in her walk abroad she saw thing calculate to destroy the peace of her majesty the queen empress she return to her master and give him information. strickland would take step at once and the end of his labor be trouble and fine and imprisonment for other people. the native believe that tietjens be a familiar spirit and treat her with the great reverence that be bear of hate and fear one room in the bungalow be set apart for her special use. she own a bedstead a blanket and a drink trough and if any one come into strickland s room at night her custom be to knock down the invader and give tongue till some one come with a light. strickland owe his life to her. when he be on the frontier in search of the local murderer who come in the grey dawn to send strickland much further than the andaman island tietjens catch him a he be crawl into strickland s tent with a dagger between his teeth and after his record of iniquity be establish in the eye of the law he be hang. from that date tietjens wear a collar of rough silver and employ a monogram on her night blanket and the blanket be double weave kashmir cloth for she be a delicate dog. 
under no circumstance would she be separate from strickland and when he be ill with fever she make great trouble for the doctor because she do not know how to help her master and would not allow another creature to attempt aid. macarnaght of the indian medical service beat her over the head with a gun before she could understand that she must give room for those who could give quinine. 
a short time after strickland have take imray s bungalow my business take me through that station and naturally the club quarter be full i quarter myself upon strickland. it be a desirable bungalow eight room and heavily thatch against any chance of leakage from rain. under the pitch of the roof run a ceiling cloth which look just a nice a a whitewash ceiling. the landlord have repaint it when strickland take the bungalow and unless you know how indian bungalow be build you would never have suspect that above the cloth lay the dark three corner cavern of the roof where the beam and the under side of the thatch harbor all manner of rat hat ant and other thing. 
tietjens meet me in the veranda with a bay like the boom of the bell of st. paul s and put her paw on my shoulder and say she be glad to see me. strickland have contrive to put together that sort of meal which he call lunch and immediately after it be finish go out about his business. i be leave alone with tietjens and my own affair. the heat of the summer have break up and give place to the warm damp of the rain. there be no motion in the heat air but the rain fell like bayonet rod on the earth and fling up a blue mist where it splash back again. the bamboo and the custard apple the poinsettia and the mango tree in the garden stand still while the warm water lash through them and the frog begin to sing among the aloe hedge. a little before the light fail and when the rain be at it bad i sit in the back veranda and hear the water roar from the eaves and scratch myself because i be cover with the thing they call prickly heat. tietjens come out with me and put her head in my lap and be very sorrowful so i give her biscuit when tea be ready and i take tea in the back veranda on account of the little coolness i find there. the room of the house be dark behind me. i could smell strickland s saddlery and the oil on his gun and i do not the least desire to sit among these thing. my own servant come to me in the twilight the muslin of his clothe cling tightly to his drench body and tell me that a gentleman have call and wish to see some one. very much against my will and because of the darkness of the room i go into the naked draw room tell my man to bring the light. there might or might not have be a caller in the room it seem to me that i saw a figure by one of the window but when the light come there be nothing save the spike of the rain without and the smell of the drink earth in my nostril. i explain to my man that he be no wise than he ought to be and go back to the veranda to talk to tietjens. she have go out into the wet and i could hardly coax her back to me even with biscuit with sugar on top. strickland ride back drip wet just before dinner and the first thing he say be. 
ha any one call. 
i explain with apology that my servant have call me into the draw room on a false alarm. or that some loafer have try to call on strickland and think good of it flee after give his name. strickland order dinner without comment and since it be a real dinner with white tablecloth attach we sit down. 
at nine o clock strickland want to go to bed and i be tire too. tietjens who have be lie underneath the table rise up and go into the least expose veranda a soon a her master move to his own room which be next to the stately chamber set apart for tietjens. if a mere wife have wish to sleep out of door in that pelt rain it would not have matter but tietjens be a dog and therefore the good animal. i look at strickland expect to see him flog her with a whip. he smile queerly a a man would smile after tell some hideous domestic tragedy. she ha do this ever since i move in here. 
the dog be strickland s dog so i say nothing but i felt all that strickland felt in be make light of. tietjens encamp outside my bedroom window and storm after storm come up thunder on the thatch and die away. the lightning spatter the sky a a throw egg spatter a barn door but the light be pale blue not yellow. and look through my slit bamboo blind i could see the great dog stand not sleep in the veranda the hackle alift on her back and her foot plant a tensely a the draw wire rope of a suspension bridge. in the very short pause of the thunder i try to sleep but it seem that some one want me very badly. he whoever he be be try to call me by name but his voice be no more than a husky whisper. then the thunder cease and tietjens go into the garden and howl at the low moon. somebody try to open my door and walk about and through the house and stand breathe heavily in the veranda and just when i be fall asleep i fancy that i hear a wild hammer and clamor above my head or on the door. 
i run into strickland s room and ask him whether he be ill and have be call for me. he be lie on the bed half dress with a pipe in his mouth. i think you d come he say. have i be walk around the house at all. 
i explain that he have be in the din room and the smoke room and two or three other place. and he laugh and tell me to go back to bed. i go back to bed and sleep till the morning but in all my dream i be sure i be do some one an injustice in not attend to his want. what those want be i could not tell but a flutter whisper bolt fumble lure loiter some one be reproach me for my slackness and through all the dream i hear the howl of tietjens in the garden and the thrash of the rain. 
i be in that house for two day and strickland go to his office daily leave me alone for eight or ten hour a day with tietjens for my only companion. a long a the full light last i be comfortable and so be tietjens. but in the twilight she and i move into the back veranda and cuddle each other for company. we be alone in the house but for all that it be fully occupy by a tenant with whom i have no desire to interfere. i never saw him but i could see the curtain between the room quiver where he have just pass through. i could hear the chair creak a the bamboo spring under a weight that have just quit them. and i could feel when i go to get a book from the din room that somebody be wait in the shadow of the front veranda till i should have go away. tietjens make the twilight more interest by glare into the darken room with every hair erect and follow the motion of something that i could not see. she never enter the room but her eye move and that be quite sufficient. only when my servant come to trim the lamp and make all light and habitable she would come in with me and spend her time sit on her haunch watch an invisible extra man a he move about behind my shoulder. dog be cheerful companion. 
i explain to strickland gently a might be that i would go over to the club and find for myself quarter there. i admire his hospitality be please with his gun and rod but i do not much care for his house and it atmosphere. he hear me out to the end and then smile very wearily but without contempt for he be a man who understand thing. stay on he say and see what this thing mean. all you have talk about i have know since i take the bungalow. stay on and wait. tietjens ha leave me. be you go too. 
i have see him through one little affair connect with an idol that have bring me to the door of a lunatic asylum and i have no desire to help him through further experience. he be a man to whom unpleasantness arrive a do dinner to ordinary people. 
therefore i explain more clearly than ever that i like him immensely and would he happy to see him in the daytime but that i didn t care to sleep under his roof. this be after dinner when tietjens have go out to lie in the veranda. 
pon my soul i don t wonder say strickland with his eye on the ceiling cloth. look at that. 
the tail of two snake be hang between the cloth and the cornice of the wall. they throw long shadow in the lamp light. if you be afraid of snake of course say strickland. i hate and fear snake because if you look into the eye of any snake you will see that it know all and more of man s fall and that it feel all the contempt that the devil felt when adam be evict from eden. besides which it bite be generally fatal and it burst up trouser leg. 
you ought to get your thatch over haul i say. give me a masheer rod and we ll poke em down. 
they ll hide among the roof beam say strickland. i can t stand snake overhead. i m go up. if i shake em down stand by with a clean rod and break their back. 
i be not anxious to assist strickland in his work hut i take the load rod and wait in the din room while strickland bring a gardener s ladder from the veranda and set it against the side of the room. the snake tail draw themselves up and disappear. we could hear the dry rush scuttle of long body run over the baggy cloth. strickland take a lamp with him while i try to make clear the danger of hunt roof snake between a ceiling cloth and a thatch apart from the deterioration of property cause by rip out ceiling cloth. 
n o n s en s e say strickland. they re sure to hide near the wall by the cloth. the brick be too cold for em and the heat of the room be just what they like. he put his hand to the corner of the cloth and rip the rotten stuff from the cornice. it give great sound of tear and strickland put his head through the open into the dark of the angle of the roof beam. i set my teeth and lift the load rod for i have not the least knowledge of what might descend. 
h m say strickland. and his voice roll and rumble in the roof. there s room for another set of room up here and by jove. some one be occupy em. 
snake. i say down below. 
no. it s a buffalo. hand me up the two first joint of a masheer rod and i ll prod it. it s lie on the main beam. 
i hand up the rod. 
what a nest for owl and serpent. no wonder the snake live here say strickland climb further into the roof. i could see his elbow thrust with the rod. come out of that whoever you be. look out. head below there. it s totter. 
i saw the ceiling cloth nearly in the centre of the room bag with a shape that be press it downward and downward toward the light lamp on the table. i snatch a lamp out of danger and stand back. then the cloth rip out from the wall tear split sway and shoot down upon the table something that i dare not look at till strickland have slide down the ladder and be stand by my side. 
he do not say much be a man of few word but he pick up the loose end of the table cloth and throw it over the thing on the table. 
it strike me say he pull down the lamp our friend imray ha come back. oh. you would would you. 
there be a movement under the cloth and a little snake wriggle out to be back break by the butt of the masheer rod. i be sufficiently sick to make no remark worth record. 
strickland meditate and help himself to drink liberally. the thing under the cloth make no more sign of life. 
be it imray. i say. 
strickland turn back the cloth for a moment and look. it be imray he say and his throat be cut from ear to ear. 
then we speak both together and to ourselves. 
that s why he whisper about the house. 
tietjens in the garden begin to bay furiously. a little late her great nose heave upon the din room door. 
she sniff and be still. the break and tattered ceiling cloth hang down almost to the level of the table and there be hardly room to move away from the discovery. 
then tietjens come in and sit down her teeth bar and her forepaw plant. she look at strickland. 
it s bad business old lady say he. men don t go up into the roof of their bungalow to die and they don t fasten up the ceiling cloth behind em. let s think it out. 
let s think it out somewhere else i say. 
excellent idea. turn the lamp out. we ll get into my room. 
i do not turn the lamp out. i go into strickland s room first and allow him to make the darkness. then he follow me and we light tobacco and think. strickland do the think. i smoke furiously because i be afraid. 
imray be back say strickland. the question be who kill imray. don t talk i have a notion of my own. when i take this bungalow i take most of imray s servant. imray be guileless and inoffensive wasn t he. 
i agree though the heap under the cloth look neither one thing nor the other. 
if i call the servant they will stand fast in a crowd and lie like aryan. what do you suggest. 
call em in one by one i say. 
they ll run away and give the news to all their fellow say strickland. 
we must segregate em. do you suppose your servant know anything about it. 
he may for aught i know hut i don t think it s likely. he ha only be here two or three day. 
what s your notion. i ask. 
i can t quite tell. how the dickens do the man get the wrong side of the ceiling cloth. 
there be a heavy cough outside strickland s bedroom door. this show that bahadur khan his body servant have wake from sleep and wish to put strickland to bed. 
come in say strickland. it be a very warm night isn t it. 
bahadur khan a great green turbaned six foot mohammedan say that it be a very warm night but that there be more rain pending which by his honor s favor would bring relief to the country. 
it will be so if god plea say strickland tug off his hoot. it be in my mind bahadur khan that i have work thee remorselessly for many day ever since that time when thou first come into my service. what time be that. 
ha the heaven bear forget. it be when imray sahib go secretly to europe without warn give and i even i come into the honor service of the protector of the poor. 
and imray sahib go to europe. 
it be so say among the servant. 
and thou wilt take service with him when he return. 
assuredly sahib. he be a good master and cherish his dependent. 
that be true. i be very tire but i can go buck shoot tomorrow. give me the little rifle that i use for black buck. it be in the case yonder. 
the man stoop over the case band barrel stock and fore end to strickland who fit them together. yawn dolefully then he reach down to the gun case take a solid draw cartridge and slip it into the breech of the. express. 
and imray sahib ha go to europe secretly. that be very strange bahadur khan be it not. 
what do i know of the way of the white man heaven bear. 
very little truly. but thou shalt know more. it ha reach me that imray sahib ha return from his so long journeying and that even now he lie in the next room wait his servant. 
sahib. 
the lamp light slide along the barrel of the rifle a they level themselves against bahadur khan s broad breast. 
go then and look. say strickland. take a lamp. thy master be tire and he wait. go. 
the man pick up a lamp and go into the din room strickland follow and almost push him with the muzzle of the rifle. he look for a moment at the black depth behind the ceiling cloth at the carcass of the mangle snake under foot and last a grey glaze set on his face at the thing under the table cloth. 
hast thou see. say strickland after a pause. 
i have see. i be clay in the white man s hand. what doe the presence do. 
hang thee within a month. what else. 
for kill him. nay sahib consider. walk among u his servant he cast his eye upon my child who be four year old. him he bewitch and in ten day he die of the fever. my child. 
what say imray sahib. 
he say he be a handsome child and pat him on the head. wherefore my child die. wherefore i kill imray sahib in the twilight when he come back from office and be sleep. the heaven bear know all thing. i be the servant of the heaven bear. 
strickland look at me above the rifle and say in the vernacular. thou art witness to this say. he ha kill. 
bahadur khan stand ashen grey in the light of the one lamp. the need for justification come upon him very swiftly. 
i be trap he say but the offence be that man s. he cast an evil eye upon my child and i kill and hide him. only such a be serve by devil he glare at tietjens crouch stolidly before him only such could know what i do. 
it be clever. but thou shouldst have lash him to the beam with a rope. now thou thyself wilt hang by a rope. orderly. 
a drowsy policeman answer strickland s call. he be follow by another and tietjens sit still. 
take him to the station say strickland. there be a case toward. 
do i hang then. say bahadur khan make no attempt to escape and keep his eye on the grind. 
if the sun shine or the water run thou wilt hang say strickland. bahadur khan step back one pace quiver and stand still. the two policeman wait further order. 
go. say strickland. 
nay. but i go very swiftly say bahadur khan. look. i be even now a dead man. 
he lift his foot and to the little toe there cling the head of the half kill snake firm fix in the agony of death. 
i come of land hold stock say bahadur khan rock where he stand. it be a disgrace for me to go to the public scaffold therefore i take this way. be it remember that the sahib s shirt be correctly enumerate and that there be an extra piece of soap in his washbasin. my child be bewitch and i slew the wizard. why should you seek to slay me. my honor be save and and i die. 
at the end of an hour he die a they die who be bite by the little kariat and the policeman bore him and the thing under the table cloth to their appoint place. they be need to make clear the disappearance of imray. 
this say strickland very calmly a he climb into bed be call the nineteenth century. do you hear what that man say. 
i hear i answer. imray make a mistake. 
simply and solely through not know the nature and coincidence of a little seasonal fever. bahadur khan ha be with him for four year. 
i shudder. my own servant have be with me for exactly that length of time. when i go over to my own room i find him wait impassive a the copper head on a penny to pull off my boot. 
what ha befall bahadur khan. say i. 
he be bite by a snake and die. the rest the sahib know be the answer. 
and how much of the matter hast thou know. 
a much a might be gather from one come in the twilight to seek satisfaction. gently sahib. let me pull off those boot. 
i have just settle to the sleep of exhaustion when i hear strickland shout from his side of the house. 
tietjens ha come back to her room. 
and so she have. the great deer hound be couch on her own bedstead on her own blanket and in the next room the idle empty ceiling cloth wag light heartedly a it flail on the table. 
moti guj mutineer. 
once upon a time there be a coffee planter in india who wish to clear some forest land for coffee plant. when he have cut down all the tree and burn the underwood the stump still remain. dynamite be expensive and slow fire slow. the happy medium for stump clear be the lord of all beast who be the elephant. he will either push the stump out of the grind with his tusk if he ha any or drag it out with rope. the planter therefore hire elephant by one and two and three and fell to work. the very best of all the elephant belong to the very bad of all the driver or mahout. and this superior beast s name be moti guj. he be the absolute property of his mahout which would never have be the case under native rule. for moti guj be a creature to be desire by king and his name be translate mean the pearl elephant. because the british government be in the land deesa the mahout enjoy his property undisturbed. he be dissipate. when he have make much money through the strength of his elephant he would get extremely drink and give moti guj a beat with a tent peg over the tender nail of the forefoot. moti guj never trample the life out of deesa on these occasion for he know that after the beat be over deesa would embrace his trunk and weep and call him his love and his life and the liver of his soul and give him some liquor. moti guj be very fond of liquor arrack for choice though he would drink palm tree toddy if nothing good offer. then deesa would go to sleep between moti guj s forefoot and a deesa generally choose the middle of the public road and a moti guj mount guard over him and would not permit horse foot or cart to pas by traffic be congest till deesa saw fit to wake up. 
there be no sleep in the daytime on the planter s clear. the wage be too high to risk. deesa sit on moti guj s neck and give him order while moti guj root up the stump for he own a magnificent pair of tusk. or pull at the end of a rope for he have a magnificent pair of shoulder while deesa kick him behind the ear and say he be the king of elephant. at even time moti guj would wash down his three hundred pound weight of green food with a quart of arrack and deesa would take a share and sing song between moti guj s leg till it be time to go to bed. once a week deesa lead moti guj down to the river and moti gui lay on his side luxuriously in the shallow while deesa go over him with a coir swab and a brick. moti guj never mistake the pound blow of the latter for the smack of the former that warn him to get up and turn over on the other side. then deesa would look at his foot and examine his eye and turn up the fringe of his mighty ear in case of sore or bud ophthalmia. after inspection the two would come up with a song from the sea moti guj all black and shin wave a tear tree branch twelve foot long in his trunk and deesa knot up his own long wet hair. 
it be a peaceful well pay life till deesa felt the return of the desire to drink deep. he wish for an orgy. the little draught that lead nowhere be take the manhood out of him. 
he go to the planter and my mother s dead say he weep. 
she die on the last plantation two month ago and she die once before that when you be work for me last year say the planter who know something of the way of nativedom. 
then it s my aunt and she be just the same a a mother to me say deesa weep more than ever. she ha leave eighteen small child entirely without bread and it be i who must fill their little stomach say deesa beat his head on the floor. 
who bring the news. say the planter. 
the post say deesa. 
there hasn t be a post here for the past week. get back to your line. 
a devastate sickness ha fall on my village and all my wife be die yell deesa really in tear this time. 
call chihun who come from deesa s village say the planter. chihun ha this man get a wife. 
he. say chihun. no. not a woman of our village would look at him. they d sooner marry the elephant. 
chihun snort. deesa weep and bellow. 
you will get into a difficulty in a minute say the planter. go back to your work. 
now i will speak heaven s truth gulp deesa with an inspiration. i haven t be drink for two month. i desire to depart in order to get properly drink afar off and distant from this heavenly plantation. thus i shall cause no trouble. 
a flicker smile cross the planter s face. deesa say he you ve speak the truth and i d give you leave on the spot if anything could be do with moti guj while you re away. you know that he will only obey your order. 
may the light of the heaven live forty thousand year. i shall be absent but ten little day. after that upon my faith and honor and soul i return. a to the inconsiderable interval have i the gracious permission of the heaven bear to call up moti guj. 
permission be grant and in answer of deesa s shrill yell the mighty tusker swing out of the shade of a clump of tree where he have be squirt dust over himself till his master should return. 
light of my heart protector of the drunken mountain of might give ear. say deesa stand in front of him. 
moti guj give ear and salute with his trunk. i be go away say deesa. 
moti guj s eye twinkle. he like jaunt a well a his master. one could snatch all manner of nice thing from the roadside then. 
but you you fussy old pig must stay behind and work. 
the twinkle die out a moti guj try to look delight. he hat stump haul on the plantation. it hurt his teeth. 
i shall be go for ten day oh delectable one. hold up your near forefoot and i ll impress the fact upon it warty toad of a dry mud puddle. deesa take a tent peg and bang moti guj ten time on the nail. moti guj grunt and shuffle from foot to foot. 
ten day say deesa you will work and haul and root the tree a chihun here shall order you. take up chihun and set him on your neck. moti guj curl the tip of his trunk chihun put his foot there and be swing on to the neck. deesa hand chihun the heavy ankus the iron elephant goad. 
chihun thump moti guj s bald head a a paver thump a curbstone. 
moti guj trumpet. 
be still hog of the backwoods. chihun s your mahout for ten day. and now bid me goodbye beast after mine own heart. oh my lord my king. jewel of all create elephant lily of the herd preserve your honor health. be virtuous. adieu. 
moti guj lap his trunk round deesa and swing him into the air twice. that be his way of bid him goodbye. 
he ll work now say deesa to the planter. have i leave to go. 
the planter nod and deesa dive into the wood. moti guj go back to haul stump. 
chihun be very kind to him but he felt unhappy and forlorn for all that. chihun give him a ball of spice and tickle him under the chin and chihun s little baby coo to him after work be over. and chihun s wife call him a darling. but moti guj be a bachelor by instinct a deesa be. he do not understand the domestic emotion. he want the light of his universe back again the drink and the drunken slumber the savage beating and the savage caress. 
none the le he work well and the planter wonder. deesa have wander along the road till he meet a marriage procession of his own caste and drink dance and tipple have drift with it past all knowledge of the lapse of time. 
the morning of the eleventh day dawn and there return no deesa moti guj be loose from his rope for the daily stint. he swing clear look round shrug his shoulder and begin to walk away a one have business elsewhere. 
hi. ho. come back you. shout chihun. come back and put me on your neck misborn mountain. return splendor of the hillside. adornment of all india heave to or i ll bang every toe off your forefoot. 
moti guj gurgle gently but do not obey. chihun run after him with a rope and catch him up. moti guj put his ear forward and chihun know what that mean though he try to carry it off with high word. 
none of your nonsense with me say he. to your picket devil son. 
hrrump. say moti guj and that be all that and the forebent ear. 
moti guj put his hand in his pocket chew a branch for a toothpick and stroll about the clear make fun of the other elephant who have just set to work. 
chihun report the state of affair to the planter who come out with a dog whip and crack it furiously. moti guj pay the white man the compliment of charge him nearly a quarter of a mile across the clear and hrrumphing him into his veranda. then he stand outside the house chuckle to himself and shake all over with the fun of it a an elephant will. 
we ll thrash him say the planter. he shall have the fine thrash ever elephant receive. give kala nag and nazim twelve foot of chain apiece and tell them to lay on twenty. 
kala nag which mean black snake and nazim be two of the big elephant in the line and one of their duty be to administer the grave punishment since no man can beat an elephant properly. 
they take the whip chain and rattle them in their trunk a they sidle up to moti guj mean to hustle him between them. moti guj have never in all his life of thirty nine year be whip and he do not intend to begin a new experience. so he wait wave his head from right to leave and measure the precise spot in kala nag s fat side where a blunt tusk could sink deep. kala nag have no tusk. the chain be the badge of his authority. but for all that he swing wide of moti guj at the last minute and try to appear a if he have bring the chain out for amusement. nazim turn round and go home early. he do not feel fight fit that morning and so moti guj be leave stand alone with his ear cock. 
that decide the planter to argue no more and moti guj roll back to his amateur inspection of the clear. an elephant who will not work and be not tie up be about a manageable a an eighty one ton gun loose in a heavy seaway. he slap old friend on the back and ask them if the stump be come away easily. he talk nonsense concern labor and the inalienable right of elephant to a long nooning. and wander to and fro he thoroughly demoralize the garden till sundown when he return to his picket for food. 
if you win t work you sha n t eat say chihun angrily. you re a wild elephant and no educate animal at all. go back to your jungle. 
chihun s little brown baby be roll on the floor of the hut and stretch out it fat arm to the huge shadow in the doorway. moti guj know well that it be the dear thing on earth to chihun. he swing out his trunk with a fascinate crook at the end and the brown baby throw itself shout upon it. moti guj make fast and pull up till the brown baby be crow in the air twelve foot above his father s head. 
great lord. say chihun. flour cake of the best twelve in number two foot across and soak in rum shall be yours on the instant and two hundred pound weight of fresh cut young sugar cane therewith. deign only to put down safely that insignificant brat who be my heart and my life to me. 
moti guj tuck the brown baby comfortably between his forefoot that could have knock into toothpick all chihun s hut and wait for his food. he eat it and the brown baby crawl away. moti guj doze and think of deesa. one of many mystery connect with the elephant be that his huge body need le sleep than anything else that life. four or five hour in the night suffice two just before midnight lie down on one side. two just after one o clock lie down on the other. the rest of the silent hour be fill with eat and fidget and long grumble soliloquy. 
at midnight therefore moti guj stride out of his picket for a think have come to him that deesa might be lie drink somewhere in the dark forest with none to look after him. so all that night he chase through the undergrowth blow and trumpet and shake his ear. he go down to the river and blare across the shallow where deesa use to wash him hut there be no answer. he could not find deesa but he disturb all the other elephant in the line and nearly frighten to death some gypsy in the wood. 
at dawn deesa return to the plantation. he have be very drink in deed and he expect to get into trouble for outstay his leave. he draw a long breath when he saw that the bungalow and the plantation be still uninjured for he know something of moti guj s temper and report himself with many lie and salaam. moti guj have go to his picket for breakfast. the night exercise have make him hungry. 
call up your beast say the planter. and deesa shout in the mysterious elephant language that some mahout believe come from china at the birth of the world when elephant and not men be master. moti guj hear and come. elephant do not gallop they move from place at vary rate of speed. if an elephant wish to catch an express train he could not gallop but he could catch the train. so moti guj be at the planter s door almost before chihun notice that he have leave his picket. he fell into deesa s arm trumpet with joy and the man and beast weep and slobber over each other and handle each other from head to heel to see that no harm have befall. 
now we will get to work say deesa. lift me up my son and my joy. 
moti guj swing him up and the two go to the coffee clear to look for difficult stump. 
the planter be too astonish to be very angry. 
