soldier story. 
soldier story. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
author of plain tale from the hill under the deodar the phantom rickshaw wee willie winkie etc. etc. 
with numerous illustration. 
new york the macmillan company london. macmillan & co. ltd. 
all right reserve. 
copyright by the macmillan company. 
norwood press j. s. cushing & co. berwick & smith norwood mass. u. s. a. 
content. 
page. 
with the main guard. 
the drum of the fore and aft. 
the man who be. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
the take of lungtungpen. 
the madness of private ortheris. 
list of illustration. 
to face page. 
put yer ead between your leg. it ll go orf in a minute. 
he run forward wid the haymaker lift on his bay nit. 
he pick her up in the grow light and set her on his shoulder. 
hey. what. be you go to argue with me. say the colonel. 
cris slide an arm round his neck. 
the men stroll across the track to inspect the afghan prisoner. 
the tune settle into full swing and the boy keep shoulder to shoulder. 
ring ho_ hira singh. 
he find the spring. 
it be not good that a gentleman who can answer to the queen s toast should lie at the foot of a subaltern of cossack. 
thin whin the kettle be to be fill dinah come in my dinah. 
my collar bone s bruk sez he. 
the half av that i ll take sez she. 
out of this sez he. i m in charge av this section av construction. i m in charge av mesilf sez i an it s like i will stay a while. 
nine roun s they be even match an at the tenth. 
there prance a portent in the face of the moon. 
i be krishna tootlin on the flute. 
shtrip bhoys sez i. shtrip to the buff an shwim in where glory wait. 
there be a melly av a sumpshus kind for a whoile. 
ortheris heave a big sigh. 
we set off at the double and find him plunge about wildly through the grass. 
[illustration]. 
with the main guard. 
d jungere uhlanen sit round mit open mouth while breitmann tell dem stdories of fightin in the south. und gif dem moral lesson how before d battle pop take a little prayer to himmel und a goot long drink of schnapps. 
han breitmann s ballad. 
mary mother av mercy fwhat the divil possist u to take an kape this melancolious counthry. answer me that sorr. 
it be mulvaney who be speak. the time be one o clock of a stifle june night and the place be the main gate of fort amara most desolate and least desirable of all fortress in india. what i be do there at that hour be a question which only concern m grath the sergeant of the guard and the men on the gate. 
slape say mulvaney be a shuparfluous necessity. this gyard ll shtay lively till relieve. he himself be strip to the waist. learoyd on the next bedstead be drip from the skinful of water which ortheris clothe only in white trouser have just sluice over his shoulder. and a fourth private be mutter uneasily a he doze open mouth in the glare of the great guard lantern. the heat under the bricked archway be terrify. 
the worrst night that iv i remimber. eyah. be all hell loose this tide. say mulvaney. a puff of burn wind lash through the wicket gate like a wave of the sea and ortheris swear. 
be ye more heasy jock. he say to learoyd. put yer ead between your leg. it ll go orf in a minute. 
ah don t care. ah would not care but ma heart be plaayin tivvy tivvy on ma rib. let me die. oh leave me die. groan the huge yorkshireman who be feel the heat acutely be of fleshly build. 
the sleeper under the lantern rouse for a moment and raise himself on his elbow. die and be damn then. he say. i_ m damn and i can t die. 
who s that. i whisper for the voice be new to me. 
gentleman bear say mulvaney. corp ril wan year sargint nex. red hot on his c mission but dhrinks like a fish. he ll be go before the cowld weather s here. so. 
[illustration. put yer ead between your leg. it ll go orf in a minute. p. ]. 
he slip his boot and with the naked toe just touch the trigger of his martini. ortheris misunderstand the movement and the next instant the irishman s rifle be dash aside while ortheris stand before him his eye blaze with reproof. 
you. say ortheris. my gawd you. if it be you wot would we do. 
kape quiet little man say mulvaney put him aside but very gently. ti not me nor will ut be me whoile dinah shadd s here. i be but showin something. 
learoyd bow on his bedstead groan and the gentleman ranker sigh in his sleep. ortheris take mulvaney s tender pouch and we three smoke gravely for a space while the dust devil dance on the glacis and scour the red hot plain. 
pop. say ortheris wipe his forehead. 
don t tantalise wid talkin av dhrink or i ll shtuff you into your own breech block an fire you off. grunt mulvaney. 
ortheris chuckle and from a niche in the veranda produce six bottle of gingerade. 
where do ye get ut ye machiavel. say mulvaney. ti no bazar pop. 
ow do hi know wot the orf cer drink. answer ortheris. arst the mess man. 
ye ll have a disthrict coort martial settin on ye yet me son say mulvaney but he open a bottle i will not report ye this time. fwhat s in the mess kid be mint for the belly a they say specially whin that mate be dhrink. here s luck. a bloody war or a no we ve get the sickly season. war thin. he wave the innocent pop to the four quarter of heaven. bloody war. north east south an west. jock ye quackin hayrick come an dhrink. 
but learoyd half mad with the fear of death presage in the swell vein of his neck be beg his maker to strike him dead and fight for more air between his prayer. a second time ortheris drench the quiver body with water and the giant revive. 
an ah divn t see thot a mon be i fettle for gooin on to live. an ah divn t see thot there be owt for t livin for. hear now lad. ah m tire tire. there s nobbut watter i ma bone. let me die. 
the hollow of the arch give back learoyd s break whisper in a bass boom. mulvaney look at me hopelessly but i remember how the madness of despair have once fall upon ortheris that weary weary afternoon in the bank of the khemi river and how it have be exorcise by the skilful magician mulvaney. 
talk terence. i say or we shall have learoyd sling loose and he ll be bad than ortheris be. talk. he ll answer to your voice. 
almost before ortheris have deftly throw all the rifle of the guard on mulvaney s bedstead the irishman s voice be uplift a that of one in the middle of a story and turn to me he say. 
in barricks or out of it a you say sorr an oirish rig mint be the divil an more. ti only fit for a young man wid eddicated fisteses. oh the crame av disruption be an oirish rig mint an rippin tearin ragin scattherers in the field av war. my first rig mint be oirish faynians an rebils to the heart av their marrow be they an so they fight for the widdy betther than most bein contrairy oirish. they be the black tyrone. you ve hear av thim sorr. 
hear of them. i know the black tyrone for the choice collection of unmitigated blackguard dog stealer robber of hen roost assaulter of innocent citizen and recklessly dare hero in the army list. half europe and half asia ha have cause to know the black tyrone good luck be with their tattered colour a glory ha ever be. 
they be hot pickils an ginger. i cut a man s head tu deep wid my belt in the day av my youth an afther some circumstance which i will oblitherate i come to the ould rig mint bearin the character av a man wid hand an foot. but a i be goin to tell you i fell acrost the black tyrone agin wan day whin we want thim powerful bad. orth ri me son fwhat be the name av that place where they sint wan comp ny av u an wan av the tyrone roun a hill an down again all for to tache the paythans something they d niver learn before. afther ghuzni twas. 
don t know what the bloomin paythans call it. we call it silver s theayter. you know that sure. 
silver s theatre so twas. a gut betune two hill a black a a bucket an a thin a a girl s waist. there be over many paythans for our convaynience in the gut an begad they call thimselves a reserve bein impident by natur. our scotchies an lashins av gurkys be poundin into some paythan rig ments i think twas. scotchies and gurkys be twin bekaze they re so onlike an they get dhrunk together when god plazes. a i be sayin they sint wan comp ny av the ould an wan av the tyrone to double up the hill an clane out the paythan reserve. orf cer be scarce in thim day fwhat wid dysintry an not takin care av thimselves an we be sint out wid only wan orf cer for the comp ny. but he be a man that have his foot beneath him an all his teeth in their sockuts. 
who be he. i ask. 
captain o neil old crook cruikna bulleen him that i tould ye that tale av whin he be in burma. [ ] hah. he be a man. the tyrone tuk a little orf cer bhoy but divil a bite be he in command a i ll dimonstrate presintly. we an they come over the brow av the hill wan on each side av the gut an there be that ondacint reserve waitin down below like rat in a pit. 
howld on men sez crook who tuk a mother s care av u always. rowl some rock on thim by way av visitin kyards. we hadn t rowled more than twinty bowlder an the paythans be beginnin to swear tremenjus whin the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone shqueaks out acrost the valley. fwhat the devil an all be you doin shpoilin the fun for my men. do ye not see they ll stand. 
faith that s a rare pluckt wan. sez crook. niver mind the rock men. come along down an tak tay wid thim. 
there s damn little sugar in ut. sez my rear rank man. but crook hear. 
have ye not all get spoon. he sez laughin an down we wint a fast a we cud. learoyd bein sick at the base he av coorse be not there. 
thot s a lie. say learoyd drag his bedstead near. ah get thot theer an you know it mulvaney. he throw up his arm and from the right arm pit run diagonally through the fell of his chest a thin white line terminate near the fourth leave rib. 
my mind s goin say mulvaney the unabashed. ye be there. fwhat be i thinkin of. twas another man av coorse. well you ll remimber thin jock how we an the tyrone meet wid a bang at the bottom an get jam past all movin among the paythans. 
ow. it be a tight ole. i be squeeze till i think i d bloomin well bust say ortheris rub his stomach meditatively. 
twas no place for a little man but wan little man mulvaney put his hand on ortheris s shoulder save the life av me. there we shtuck for divil a bite do the paythans flinch an divil a bite dare we. our business bein to clear em out. an the most exthryordinar thing av all be that we an they just rush into each other s arrums an there be no fire for a long time. nothin but knife an bay nit when we cud get our hand free. an that be not often. we be breast on to thim an the tyrone be yelpin behind av u in a way i didn t see the lean av at first. but i know late an so do the paythans. 
knee to knee. sing out crook wid a laugh whin the rush av our comin into the gut shtopped an he be huggin a hairy great paythan neither bein able to do anything to the other tho both be wishful. 
breast to breast. he sez a the tyrone be pushin u forward close an close. 
an hand over back. sez a sargint that be behin. i saw a sword lick out past crook s ear an the paythan be tuck in the apple av his throat like a pig at dromeen fair. 
thank ye brother inner guard sez crook cool a a cucumber widout salt. i want that room. an he wint forward by the thickness av a man s body havin turn the paythan undher him. the man bite the heel off crook s boot in his death bite. 
push men. sez crook. push ye paper back beggar. he sez. be i to pull ye through. so we push an we kick an we swing an we swear an the grass bein slippery our heel wouldn t bite an god help the front rank man that wint down that day. 
ave you ever bin in the pit hentrance o the vic. on a thick night. interrupt ortheris. it be bad nor that for they be goin one way an we wouldn t ave it. leastaways i adn t much to say. 
faith me son ye say ut thin. i kep the little man betune my knee a long a i cud but he be pokin roun wid his bay nit blindin and stiffin feroshus. the devil of a man be orth ri in a ruction aren t ye. say mulvaney. 
don t make game. say the cockney. i know i wasn t no good then but i guv em compot from the lef flank when we open out. no. he say bring down his hand with a thump on the bedstead a bay nit ain t no good to a little man might a well ave a bloomin fishin rod. i eat a clawin maulin mess but gimme a breech that s wear out a bite an hamminition one year in store to let the powder kiss the bullet an put me somewhere where i ain t tread on by ulkin swine like you an s elp me gawd i could bowl you over five time out seven at height undred. would yer try you lumberin hirishman. 
no ye wasp. i ve see ye do ut. i say there s nothin good than the bay nit wid a long reach a double twist av ye can an a slow recover. 
dom the bay nit say learoyd who have be listen intently. look a here. he pick up a rifle an inch below the foresight with an underhanded action and use it exactly a a man would use a dagger. 
sitha say he softly thot s good than owt for a mon can bash t faace wi thot an if he divn t he can breeak t forearm o t gaard. ti not i t book though. gie me t butt. 
each doe ut his own way like makin love say mulvaney quietly. the butt or the bay nit or the bullet accordin to the natur av the man. well a i be sayin we shtuck there breathin in each other s face an swearin powerful. orth ri cursin the mother that bore him bekaze he be not three inch tall. 
prisintly he sez. duck ye lump an i can get at a man over your shouldher. 
you ll blow me head off i sez throwin my arm clear. go through under my arm pit ye blood thirsty little scutt sez i but don t shtick me or i ll wring your ear round. 
fwhat be ut ye give the paythan man forninst me him that cut at me whin i cudn t move hand or foot. hot or cowld be ut. 
cold say ortheris up an under the rib jint. e come down flat. best for you e do. 
thrue my son. this jam thing that i m talkin about last for five minute good an thin we get our arm clear an wint in. i misremimber exactly fwhat i do but i didn t want dinah to be a widdy at the depot. thin after some promishkuous hackin we shtuck again an the tyrone behin be callin u dog an coward an all manner av name. we barrin their way. 
fwhat ail the tyrone. think i. they ve the makin s av a most convanient fight here. 
a man behind me sez beseechful an in a whisper. let me get at thim. for the love av mary give me room beside ye ye tall man. 
an who be you that s so anxious to be kilt. sez i widout turnin my head for the long knife be dancin in front like the sun on donegal bay when ut s rough. 
we ve see our dead he sez squeezin into me. our dead that be men two day go. an me that be his cousin by blood could not bring tim coulan off. let me get on he sez let me get to thim or i ll run ye through the back. 
my troth think i if the tyrone have see their dead god help the paythans this day. an thin i know why the oirish be ragin behind u a they be. 
i give room to the man an he run forward wid the haymaker lift on his bay nit an swing a paythan clear off his foot by the belly band av the brute an the iron bruk at the lockin ring. 
tim coulan ll slape easy to night sez he wid a grin. an the next minut his head be in two half and he wint down grinnin by section. 
the tyrone be pushin an pushin in an our men be swearin at thim an crook be workin away in front av u all his sword arm swingin like a pump handle. an his revolver spittin like a cat. but the strange thing av ut be the quiet that lay upon. twas like a fight in a drame except for thim that be dead. 
[illustration. he run forward wid the haymaker lift on his bay nit. p. ]. 
whin i give room to the oirishman i be expinded an forlorn in my inside. ti a way i have savin your presince sorr in action. let me out bhoys sez i backin in among thim. i m goin to be onwell. faith they give me room at the wurrd though they would not ha give room for all hell wid the chill off. when i get clear i be savin your presince sorr outragis sick bekaze i have dhrunk heavy that day. 
well an far out av harm be a sargint av the tyrone sittin on the little orf cer bhoy who have stop crook from rowlin the rock. oh he be a beautiful bhoy an the long black curse be slide out av his innocint mouth like morning jew from a rise. 
fwhat have you get there. sez i to the sargint. 
wan av her majesty s bantam wid his spur up sez he. he s goin to coort martial me. 
let me go. sez the little orf cer bhoy. let me go and command my men. manin thereby the black tyrone which be beyond any command ay even av they have make the divil a field orf cer. 
his father howlds my mother s cow fee in clonmel sez the man that be sittin on him. will i go back to his mother an tell her that i ve let him throw himself away. lie still ye little pinch av dynamite an coort martial me aftherwards. 
good sez i. ti the like av him make the like av the commandher in chief but we must presarve thim. fwhat d you want to do sorr. sez i very politeful. 
kill the beggar kill the beggar. he shqueaks his big blue eye brimmin wid tear. 
an how ll ye do that. sez i. you ve shquibbed off your revolver like a child wid a cracker. you can make no play wid that fine large sword av yours. an your hand s shakin like an asp on a leaf. lie still and grow sez i. 
get back to your comp ny sez he. you re insolint. 
all in good time sez i but i ll have a dhrink first. 
just thin crook come up blue an white all over where he wasn t red. 
wather. sez he. i m dead wid drouth. oh but it s a gran day. 
he dhrank half a skinful and the rest he tilt into his chest an it fair hiss on the hairy hide av him. he see the little orf cer bhoy undher the sargint. 
fwhat s yonder. sez he. 
mutiny sorr sez the sargint an the orf cer bhoy begin pleadin pitiful to crook to be let go but divil a bite wud crook budge. 
kape him there he sez ti no child s work this day. by the same token sez he i ll confishcate that iligant nickel plat scent sprinkler av yours for my own ha be vomitin dishgraceful. 
the fork av his hand be black wid the back spit av the machine. so he tuk the orf cer bhoy s revolver. ye may look sorr but by my faith there s a dale more do in the field than iv get into field ordhers. 
come on mulvaney sez crook. be this a coort martial. the two av u wint back together into the mess an the paythans be still standin up. they be not too impart nint though for the tyrone be callin wan to another to remimber tim coulan. 
crook stop outside av the strife an look anxious his eye rowlin roun. 
fwhat be ut sorr. sez i. can i get ye anything. 
where s a bugler. sez he. 
i wint into the crowd our men be dhrawin breath behin the tyrone who be fightin like sowls in tormint an prisintly i come acrost little frehan our bugler bhoy pokin roun among the best wid a rifle an bay nit. 
be amusin yoursilf fwhat you re pay for ye limb. sez i catchin him by the scruff. come out av that an attind to your duty i sez. but the bhoy be not please. 
i ve get wan sez he grinnin big a you mulvaney an fair half a ugly. let me go get another. 
i be dishpleased at the personability av that remark so i tuck him under my arm an carry him to crook who be watchin how the fight wint. crook cuff him till the bhoy cry an thin sez nothin for a whoile. 
the paythans begin to flicker onaisy an our men roar. opin ordher. double. sez crook. blow child blow for the honour av the british arrmy. 
that bhoy blow like a typhoon an the tyrone an we opine out a the paythans break an i saw that fwhat have go before wud be kissin an huggin to fwhat be to come. we d dhruv them into a broad part av the gut whin they give an thin we opine out an fair dance down the valley dhrivin thim before u. oh twas lovely an stiddy too. there be the sargints on the flank av what be leave av u kapin touch an the fire be runnin from flank to flank an the paythans be dhroppin. we opine out wid the widenin av the valley an whin the valley narrow we close again like the shtick on a lady s fan an at the far ind av the gut where they thried to stand we fair blow them off their foot for we have expinded very little ammunition by reason av the knife work. 
hi use thirty round goin down that valley say ortheris an it be gentleman s work. might a do it in a white andkerchief an pink silk stockin s that part. hi be on in that piece. 
you could ha hear the tyrone yellin a mile away say mulvaney an twas all their sargints cud do to get thim off. they be mad mad mad. crook sit down in the quiet that fell when we have go down the valley an cover his face wid his hand. prisintly we all come back again accordin to our nature and disposishins for they mark you show through the hide av a man in that hour. 
bhoys. bhoys. sez crook to himself. i misdoubt we could ha engage at long range an save betther men than me. he look at our dead an say no more. 
captain dear sez a man av the tyrone comin up wid his mouth big than iv his mother kiss ut spittin blood like a whale. captain dear sez he if wan or two in the shtalls have be discommode the gallery have enjoy the performinces av a roshus. 
thin i know that man for the dublin dock rat he be wan av the bhoys that make the lessee av silver s theatre gray before his time wid tearin out the bowils av the bench an t rowin thim into the pit. so i pass the wurrud that i know when i be in the tyrone an we lay in dublin. i don t know who twas i whisper an i don t care but anyways i ll knock the face av you tim kelly. 
eyah. sez the man be you there too. we ll call ut silver s theatre. half the tyrone knowin the ould place tuk ut up. so we call ut silver s theatre. 
the little orf cer bhoy av the tyrone be thremblin an cryin. he have no heart for the coort martial that he talk so big upon. ye ll do well late sez crook very quiet for not bein allow to kill yourself for amusemint. 
i m a dishgraced man. sez the little orf cer bhoy. 
put me undher arrest sorr if you will but by my sowl i d do ut again sooner than face your mother wid you dead sez the sargint that have sit on his head standin to attention an salutin. but the young wan only cry a tho his little heart be breakin. 
thin another man av the tyrone come up wid the fog av fightin on him. 
the what mulvaney. 
fog av fightin. you know sorr that like makin love ut take each man diff rint. now i can t help bein powerful sick whin i m in action. orth ri here niver stop swearin from ind to ind an the only time that learoyd opins his mouth to sing be whin he be messin wid other people s head. for he s a dhirty fighter be jock. recruities sometime cry an sometime they don t know fwhat they do an sometime they be all for cuttin throat an such like dirtiness. but some men get heavy dead dhrunk on the fightin. this man be. he be staggerin an his eye be half shut an we cud hear him dhraw breath twinty yard away. he see the little orf cer bhoy an come up talkin thick an drowsy to himsilf. blood the young whelp. he sez. blood the young whelp. an wid that he throw up his arm shpun roun an drop at our foot dead a a paythan an there be niver sign or scratch on him. they say twas his heart be rotten but oh twas a quare thing to see. 
thin we go to bury our dead for we wud not lave thim to the paythans an in movin among the haythen we nearly lose that little orf cer bhoy. he be for givin wan divil wather and layin him aisy against a rock. be careful sorr sez i. a wound paythan s bad than a live wan. my troth before the word be out of my mouth the man on the grind fire at the orf cer bhoy lanin over him an i saw the helmit fly. i drop the butt on the face av the man an tuk his pistol. the little orf cer bhoy turn very white for the hair av half his head be sing away. 
i tould you so sorr sez i. an afther that when he want to help a paythan i stud wid the muzzle contagious to the ear. they dare not do anythin but curse. the tyrone be growlin like dog over a bone that ha be take away too soon for they have see their dead an they want to kill ivry sowl on the grind. crook tould thim that he d blow the hide off any man that misconduct himself. but see that ut be the first time the tyrone have iv see their dead i do not wondher they be on the sharp. ti a shameful sight. whin i first saw ut i wud niver ha give quarter to any man not of the khaibar no nor woman either for the woman use to come out afther dhark auggrh. 
well evenshually we bury our dead an tuk away our wound an come over the brow av the hill to see the scotchies an the gurkys take tay with the paythans in bucketsfuls. we be a gang av dissolute ruffian for the blood have cake the dust an the sweat have cut the cake an our bay nit be hangin like butcher steel betune ur leg an most av u be mark one way or another. 
a staff orf cer man clean a a new rifle ride up an sez. what damn scarecrow be you. 
a comp ny av her majesty s black tyrone an wan av the ould rig mint sez crook very quiet givin our visitor the flure a twas. 
oh. sez the staff orf cer. do you dislodge that reserve. 
no. sez crook an the tyrone laugh. 
thin fwhat the divil have ye do. 
disthroyed ut sez crook an he take u on but not before toomey that be in the tyrone sez aloud his voice somewhere in his stummick. fwhat in the name av misfortune doe this parrit widout a tail mane by shtoppin the road av his betthers. 
the staff orf cer wint blue an toomey make him pink by changin to the voice av a minowderin woman an sayin. come an kiss me major dear for me husband s at the war an i m all alone at the depot. 
the staff orf cer wint away an i cud see crook s shoulthers shakin. 
his corp ril check toomey. lave me alone sez toomey widout a wink. i be his bâtman before he be marry an he know fwhat i mane av you don t. there s nothin like livin in the hoight av society. d you remimber that orth ri. 
hi do. toomey e die in orspital next week it be cause i buy arf his kit. an i remember after that. 
guarrd turn out. 
the relief have come. it be four o clock. i ll catch a kyart for you sorr say mulvaney dive hastily into his accoutrement. come up to the top av the fort an we ll pershue our invistigations into m grath s shtable. the relieve guard stroll round the main bastion on it way to the swim bath and learoyd grow almost talkative. ortheris look into the fort ditch and across the plain. ho. it s weary waitin for ma ary. he hum. but i d like to kill some more bloomin paythans before my time s up. war. bloody war. north east south and west. 
amen say learoyd slowly. 
fwhat s here. say mulvaney check at a blur of white by the foot of the old sentry box. he stoop and touch it. it s norah norah m taggart. why nonie darlin fwhat be ye doin out av your mother s bed at this time. 
the two year old child of sergeant m taggart must have wander for a breath of cool air to the very verge of the parapet of the fort ditch. her tiny night shift be gather into a wisp round her neck and she moan in her sleep. see there. say mulvaney. poor lamb. look at the heat rash on the innocint skin av her. ti hard crool hard even for u. fwhat must it be for these. wake up nonie your mother will be woild about you. begad the child might ha fall into the ditch. 
[illustration. he pick her up in the grow light and set her on his shoulder. p. ]. 
he pick her up in the grow light and set her on his shoulder and her fair curl touch the grizzle stubble of his temple. ortheris and learoyd follow snap their finger while norah smile at them a sleepy smile. then carol mulvaney clear a a lark dance the baby on his arm. 
if any young man should marry you say nothin about the joke. that iv ye slep in a sinthry box wrap up in a soldier s cloak. 
though on my sowl nonie he say gravely there be not much cloak about you. niver mind you win t dhress like this ten year to come. kiss your friend an run along to your mother. 
nonie set down close to the marry quarter nod with the quiet obedience of the soldier s child but ere she patter off over the flag path hold up her lip to be kiss by the three musketeer. ortheris wipe his mouth with the back of his hand and swear sentimentally. learoyd turn pink. and the two walk away together. the yorkshireman lift up his voice and give in thunder the chorus of the sentry box_ while ortheris pip at his side. 
bin to a bloomin sing song you two. say the artilleryman who be take his cartridge down to the morning gun. you re over merry for these dash day. 
i bid ye take care o the brat say he for it come of a noble race. 
learoyd bellow. the voice die out in the swim bath. 
oh terence. i say drop into mulvaney s speech when we be alone it s you that have the tongue. 
he look at me wearily. his eye be sink in his head and his face be draw and white. eyah. say he. i ve blandandhered thim through the night somehow but can thim that help others help thimselves. answer me that sorr. 
and over the bastion of fort amara break the pitiless day. 
footnote. 
[ ]. 
now first of the foeman of boh da thone be captain o neil of the black tyrone. the ballad of boh da thone. 
[illustration]. 
the drum of the fore and aft. 
in the army list they still stand a the fore and fit princess hohenzollern sigmaringen auspach s merthyr tydfilshire own royal loyal light infantry regimental district a but the army through all it barrack and canteen know them now a the fore and aft. they may in time do something that shall make their new title honourable but at present they be bitterly ashamed and the man who call them fore and aft doe so at the risk of the head which be on his shoulder. 
two word breathe into the stable of a certain cavalry regiment will bring the men out into the street with belt and mop and bad language. but a whisper of fore and aft will bring out this regiment with rifle. 
their one excuse be that they come again and do their best to finish the job in style. but for a time all their world know that they be openly beat whip dumb cow shake and afraid. the men know it. their officer know it. the horse guard know it and when the next war come the enemy will know it also. there be two or three regiment of the line that have a black mark against their name which they will then wipe out. and it will be excessively inconvenient for the troop upon whom they do their wipe. 
the courage of the british soldier be officially suppose to be above proof and a a general rule it be so. the exception be decently shovel out of sight only to be refer to in the fresh of unguarded talk that occasionally swamp a mess table at midnight. then one hear strange and horrible story of men not follow their officer of order be give by those who have no right to give them and of disgrace that but for the stand luck of the british army might have end in brilliant disaster. these be unpleasant story to listen to and the mess tell them under their breath sit by the big wood fire. and the young officer bow his head and think to himself please god his men shall never behave unhandily. 
the british soldier be not altogether to be blame for occasional lapse. but this verdict he should not know. a moderately intelligent general will waste six month in master the craft of the particular war that he may be wag. a colonel may utterly misunderstand the capacity of his regiment for three month after it ha take the field. and even a company commander may err and be deceive a to the temper and temperament of his own handful. wherefore the soldier and the soldier of to day more particularly should not be blame for fall back. he should be shoot or hang afterwards to encourage the others. but he should not be vilify in newspaper for that be want of tact and waste of space. 
he ha let u say be in the service of the empress for perhaps four year. he will leave in another two year. he ha no inherit moral and four year be not sufficient to drive toughness into his fibre or to teach him how holy a thing be his regiment. he want to drink he want to enjoy himself in india he want to save money and he doe not in the least like get hurt. he ha receive just sufficient education to make him understand half the purport of the order he receive and to speculate on the nature of clean incise and shatter wound. thus if he be tell to deploy under fire preparatory to an attack he know that he run a very great risk of be kill while he be deploy and suspect that he be be throw away to gain ten minute time. he may either deploy with desperate swiftness or he may shuffle or bunch or break accord to the discipline under which he ha lie for four year. 
arm with imperfect knowledge curse with the rudiment of an imagination hamper by the intense selfishness of the low class and unsupported by any regimental association this young man be suddenly introduce to an enemy who in eastern land be always ugly generally tall and hairy and frequently noisy. if he look to the right and the leave and see old soldier men of twelve year service who he know know what they be about take a charge rush or demonstration without embarrassment he be console and apply his shoulder to the butt of his rifle with a stout heart. his peace be the great if he hear a senior who ha teach him his soldier and break his head on occasion whisper. they ll shout and carry on like this for five minute. then they ll rush in and then we ve get em by the short hair. 
but on the other hand if he see only men of his own term of service turn white and play with their trigger and say. what the hell s up now. while the company commander be sweat into their sword hilt and shout. front rank fix bayonet. steady there steady. sight for three hundred no for five. lie down all. steady. front rank kneel. and so forth he become unhappy. and grow acutely miserable when he hear a comrade turn over with the rattle of fire iron fall into the fender and the grunt of a pole ax ox. if he can be move about a little and allow to watch the effect of his own fire on the enemy he feel merry and may be then work up to the blind passion of fight which be contrary to general belief control by a chilly devil and shake men like ague. if he be not move about and begin to feel cold at the pit of the stomach and in that crisis be badly maul and hear order that be never give he will break and he will break badly. and of all thing under the light of the sun there be nothing more terrible than a break british regiment. when the bad come to the bad and the panic be really epidemic the men must be e en let go and the company commander have good escape to the enemy and stay there for safety s sake. if they can be make to come again they be not pleasant men to meet. because they will not break twice. 
about thirty year from this date when we have succeed in half educate everything that wear trouser our army will be a beautifully unreliable machine. it will know too much and it will do too little. late still when all men be at the mental level of the officer of to day it will sweep the earth. speak roughly you must employ either blackguard or gentleman or best of all blackguard command by gentleman to do butch s work with efficiency and despatch. the ideal soldier should of course think for himself the pocket book say so. unfortunately to attain this virtue he ha to pas through the phase of think of himself and that be misdirect genius. a blackguard may be slow to think for himself but he be genuinely anxious to kill and a little punishment teach him how to guard his own skin and perforate another s. a powerfully prayerful highland regiment officer by rank presbyterian be perhaps one degree more terrible in action than a hard bite thousand of irresponsible irish ruffian lead by most improper young unbeliever. but these thing prove the rule which be that the midway men be not to be trust alone. they have idea about the value of life and an upbringing that ha not teach them to go on and take the chance. they be carefully unprovided with a back of comrade who have be shoot over and until that back be re introduce a a great many regimental commander intend it shall be they be more liable to disgrace themselves than the size of the empire or the dignity of the army allow. their officer be a good a good can be because their train begin early and god ha arrange that a clean run youth of the british middle class shall in the matter of backbone brain and bowel surpass all other youth. for this reason a child of eighteen will stand up do nothing with a tin sword in his hand and joy in his heart until he be drop. if he dy he dy like a gentleman. if he life he write home that he ha be pot snip chip or cut over and sit down to besiege government for a wind gratuity until the next little war break out when he perjure himself before a medical board blarney his colonel burn incense round his adjutant and be allow to go to the front once more. 
which homily bring me directly to a brace of the most finish little fiend that ever bang drum or tootle fife in the band of a british regiment. they end their sinful career by open and flagrant mutiny and be shoot for it. their name be jakin and lew piggy lew and they be bold bad drummer boy both of them frequently birch by the drum major of the fore and aft. 
jakin be a stunt child of fourteen and lew be about the same age. when not look after they smoke and drink. they swear habitually after the manner of the barrack room which be cold swear and come from between clinch teeth. and they fight religiously once a week. jakin have spring from some london gutter and may or may not have pass through dr. barnardo s hand ere he arrive at the dignity of drummer boy. lew could remember nothing except the regiment and the delight of listen to the band from his early year. he hide somewhere in his grimy little soul a genuine love for music and be most mistakenly furnish with the head of a cherub. insomuch that beautiful lady who watch the regiment in church be wont to speak of him a a darling. they never hear his vitriolic comment on their manner and moral a he walk back to barrack with the band and mature fresh cause of offence against jakin. 
the other drummer boy hat both lad on account of their illogical conduct. jakin might be pound lew or lew might be rub jakin s head in the dirt but any attempt at aggression on the part of an outsider be meet by the combine force of lew and jakin. and the consequence be painful. the boy be the ishmael of the corp but wealthy ishmael for they sell battle in alternate week for the sport of the barrack when they be not pit against other boy. and thus amass money. 
on this particular day there be dissension in the camp. they have just be convict afresh of smoke which be bad for little boy who use plug tobacco and lew s contention be that jakin have stink so orrid bad from keepin the pipe in pocket that he and he alone be responsible for the birch they be both tingle under. 
i tell you i id the pipe back o barrack say jakin pacifically. 
you re a bloomin liar say lew without heat. 
you re a bloomin little barstard say jakin strong in the knowledge that his own ancestry be unknown. 
now there be one word in the extend vocabulary of barrack room abuse that cannot pas without comment. you may call a man a thief and risk nothing. you may even call him a coward without find more than a boot whiz past your ear but you must not call a man a bastard unless you be prepare to prove it on his front teeth. 
you might ha kep that till i wasn t so sore say lew sorrowfully dodge round jakin s guard. 
i ll make you sore say jakin genially and get home on lew s alabaster forehead. all would have go well and this story a the book say would never have be write have not his evil fate prompt the bazar sergeant s son a long employless man of five and twenty to put in an appearance after the first round. he be eternally in need of money and know that the boy have silver. 
fight again say he. i ll report you to my father and he ll report you to the colour sergeant. 
what s that to you. say jakin with an unpleasant dilation of the nostril. 
oh. nothing to me. you ll get into trouble and you ve be up too often to afford that. 
what the hell do you know about what we ve do. ask lew the seraph. you aren t in the army you lousy cadge civilian. 
he close in on the man s leave flank. 
jes cause you find two gentleman settlin their diff rences with their fistes you stick in your ugly nose where you aren t want. run ome to your arf caste slut of a ma or we ll give you what for say jakin. 
the man attempt reprisal by knock the boy head together. the scheme would have succeed have not jakin punch him vehemently in the stomach or have lew refrain from kick his shin. they fight together bleed and breathless for half an hour and after heavy punishment triumphantly pull down their opponent a terrier pull down a jackal. 
now gasp jakin i ll give you what for. he proceed to pound the man s feature while lew stamp on the outlying portion of his anatomy. chivalry be not a strong point in the composition of the average drummer boy. he fight a do his better to make his mark. 
ghastly be the ruin that escape and awful be the wrath of the bazar sergeant. awful too be the scene in orderly room when the two reprobate appear to answer the charge of half murder a civilian. the bazar sergeant thirst for a criminal action and his son lie. the boy stand to attention while the black cloud of evidence accumulate. 
[illustration. hey. what. be you go to argue with me. say the colonel. p. ]. 
you little devil be more trouble than the rest of the regiment put together say the colonel angrily. one might a well admonish thistledown and i can t well put you in cell or under stoppage. you must be birch again. 
beg y pardon sir. can t we say nothin in our own defence sir. shrill jakin. 
hey. what. be you go to argue with me. say the colonel. 
no sir say lew. but if a man come to you sir and say he be go to report you sir for aving a bite of a turn up with a friend sir an want to get money out o you_ sir. 
the orderly room explode in a roar of laughter. well. say the colonel. 
that be what that measly jarnwar there do sir and e d a do it sir if we adn t prevent im. we didn t it im much sir. e adn t no manner o right to interfere with u sir. i don t mind bein birch by the drum major sir nor yet report by any corp ral but i m but i don t think it s fair sir for a civilian to come an talk over a man in the army. 
a second shout of laughter shake the orderly room but the colonel be grave. 
what sort of character have these boy. he ask of the regimental sergeant major. 
accordin to the bandmaster sir return that revere official the only soul in the regiment whom the boy fear they do everything but lie sir. 
be it like we d go for that man for fun sir. say lew point to the plaintiff. 
oh admonish admonish. say the colonel testily and when the boy have go he read the bazar sergeant s son a lecture on the sin of unprofitable meddle and give order that the bandmaster should keep the drum in good discipline. 
if either of you come to practice again with so much a a scratch on your two ugly little face thunder the bandmaster i ll tell the drum major to take the skin off your back. understand that you young devil. 
then he repent of his speech for just the length of time that lew look like a seraph in red worst embellishment take the place of one of the trumpet in hospital and render the echo of a battle piece. lew certainly be a musician and have often in his more exalt moment express a yearn to master every instrument of the band. 
there s nothing to prevent your become a bandmaster lew say the bandmaster who have compose waltz of his own and work day and night in the interest of the band. 
what do he say. demand jakin after practice. 
say i might be a bloomin bandmaster an be ask in to ave a glass o sherry wine on mess night. 
ho. say you might be a bloomin non combatant do e. that s just about wot e would say. when i ve put in my boy s service it s a bloomin shame that doesn t count for pension i ll take on a a privit. then i ll be a lance in a year knowin what i know about the in an out o thing. in three year i ll be a bloomin sergeant. i win t marry then not i. i ll old on and learn the orf cer way an apply for exchange into a reg ment that doesn t know all about me. then i ll be a bloomin orf cer. then i ll ask you to ave a glass o sherry wine mister lew an you ll bloomin well ave to stay in the hanty room while the mess sergeant bring it to your dirty ands. 
s pose i m go to be a bandmaster. not i quite. i ll be a orf cer too. there s nothin like takin to a thing an stickin to it the schoolmaster say. the reg ment don t go ome for another seven year. i ll be a lance then or near to. 
thus the boy discuss their future and conduct themselves piously for a week. that be to say lew start a flirtation with the colour sergeant s daughter age thirteen not a he explain to jakin with any intention o matrimony but by way o keepin my and in. and the black haired cris delighan enjoy that flirtation more than previous one and the other drummer boy rag furiously together and jakin preach sermon on the danger of bein tangle along o petticoat. 
but neither love nor virtue would have hold lew long in the path of propriety have not the rumour go abroad that the regiment be to be send on active service to take part in a war which for the sake of brevity we will call the war of the lose tribe. 
the barrack have the rumour almost before the mess room and of all the nine hundred men in barrack not ten have see a shoot fire in anger. the colonel have twenty year ago assist at a frontier expedition. one of the major have see service at the cape. a confirm deserter in e company have help to clear street in ireland. but that be all. the regiment have be put by for many year. the overwhelm mass of it rank and file have from three to four year service. the non commission officer be under thirty year old. and men and sergeant alike have forget to speak of the story write in brief upon the colour the new colour that have be formally bless by an archbishop in england ere the regiment come away. 
they want to go to the front they be enthusiastically anxious to go but they have no knowledge of what war mean and there be none to tell them. they be an educate regiment the percentage of school certificate in their rank be high and most of the men could do more than read and write. they have be recruit in loyal observance of the territorial idea. but they themselves have no notion of that idea. they be make up of draft from an over populate manufacture district. the system have put flesh and muscle upon their small bone but it could not put heart into the son of those who for generation have do overmuch work for over scanty pay have sweat in dry room stoop over loom cough among white lead and shiver on lime barge. the men have find food and rest in the army and now they be go to fight nigger people who run away if you shake a stick at them. wherefore they cheer lustily when the rumour run and the shrewd clerkly non commission officer speculate on the chance of batta and of save their pay. at headquarter men say. the fore and fit have never be under fire within the last generation. let u therefore break them in easily by set them to guard line of communication. and this would have be do but for the fact that british regiment be want badly want at the front and there be doubtful native regiment that could fill the minor duty. brigade em with two strong regiment say headquarter. they may be knock about a bite though they ll learn their business before they come through. nothing like a night alarm and a little cut up of straggler to make a regiment smart in the field. wait till they ve have half a dozen sentry throat cut. 
the colonel write with delight that the temper of his men be excellent that the regiment be all that could be wish and a sound a a bell. the major smile with a sober joy and the subaltern waltz in pair down the mess room after dinner and nearly shoot themselves at revolver practice. but there be consternation in the heart of jakin and lew. what be to be do with the drum. would the band go to the front. how many of the drum would accompany the regiment. 
they take counsel together sit in a tree and smoke. 
it s more than a bloomin toss up they ll leave u be ind at the depot with the woman. you ll like that say jakin sarcastically. 
cause o cris y mean. wot s a woman or a ole bloomin depot o woman longside o the chanst of field service. you know i m a keen on goin a you say lew. 
wish i be a bloomin bugler say jakin sadly. they ll take tom kidd along that i can plaster a wall with an like a not they win t take u. 
then let s go an make tom kidd so bloomin sick e can t bugle no more. you old be ands an i ll kick him say lew wriggle on the branch. 
that ain t no good neither. we ain t the sort o character to presoom on our rep tations they re bad. if they leave the band at the depot we don t go and no error there. if they take the band we may get cast for medical unfitness. be you medical fit piggy. say jakin dig lew in the rib with force. 
yus say lew with an oath. the doctor say your eart s weak through smokin on an empty stummick. throw a chest an i ll try yer. 
jakin throw out his chest which lew smite with all his might. jakin turn very pale gasp crow screw up his eye and say that s all right. 
you ll do say lew. i ve eard o men dyin when you it em fair on the breastbone. 
don t bring u no near goin though say jakin. do you know where we re order. 
gawd know an e win t split on a pal. somewhere up to the front to kill paythans hairy big beggar that turn you inside out if they get old o you. they say their woman be good look too. 
any loot. ask the abandon jakin. 
not a bloomin anna they say unless you dig up the grind an see what the nigger ave id. they re a poor lot. jakin stand upright on the branch and gaze across the plain. 
lew say he there s the colonel come. colonel s a good old beggar. let s go an talk to im. 
lew nearly fell out of the tree at the audacity of the suggestion. like jakin he fear not god neither regard he man but there be limit even to the audacity of drummer boy and to speak to a colonel be. 
but jakin have slide down the trunk and double in the direction of the colonel. that officer be walk wrap in think and vision of a c. b. yes even a k. c. b. for have he not at command one of the best regiment of the line the fore and fit. and he be aware of two small boy charge down upon him. once before it have be solemnly report to him that the drum be in a state of mutiny jakin and lew be the ringleader. this look like an organise conspiracy. 
the boy halt at twenty yard walk to the regulation four pace and salute together each a well set up a a ramrod and little tall. 
the colonel be in a genial mood. the boy appear very forlorn and unprotected on the desolate plain and one of them be handsome. 
well. say the colonel recognise them. be you go to pull me down in the open. i m sure i never interfere with you even though he sniff suspiciously you have be smoke. 
it be time to strike while the iron be hot. their heart beat tumultuously. 
beg y pardon sir begin jakin. the reg ment s order on active service sir. 
so i believe say the colonel courteously. 
be the band goin sir. say both together. then without pause we re goin sir ain t we. 
you. say the colonel step back the more fully to take in the two small figure. you. you d die in the first march. 
no we wouldn t sir. we can march with the reg ment anywheres p rade an anywhere else say jakin. 
if tom kidd go e ll shut up like a clasp knife say lew. tom a very close vein in both be leg sir. 
very how much. 
very close vein sir. that s why they swell after long p rade sir. if e can go we can go sir. 
again the colonel look at them long and intently. 
yes the band be go he say a gravely a though he have be address a brother officer. have you any parent either of you two. 
no sir rejoicingly from lew and jakin. we re both orphan sir. there s no one to be consider of on our account sir. 
you poor little sprat and you want to go up to the front with the regiment do you. why. 
i ve wear the queen s uniform for two year say jakin. it s very ard sir that a man don t get no recompense for doin of be dooty sir. 
an an if i don t go sir interrupt lew the bandmaster e say e ll catch an make a bloo a bless musician o me sir. before i ve see any service sir. 
the colonel make no answer for a long time. then he say quietly. if you re pass by the doctor i daresay you can go. i shouldn t smoke if i be you. 
the boy salute and disappear. the colonel walk home and tell the story to his wife who nearly cry over it. the colonel be well please. if that be the temper of the child what would not the men do. 
jakin and lew enter the boy barrack room with great stateliness and refuse to hold any conversation with their comrade for at least ten minute. then burst with pride jakin drawl. i ve bin intervooin the colonel. good old beggar be the colonel. say i to im colonel say i let me go to the front along o the reg ment. to the front you shall go say e an i only wish there be more like you among the dirty little devil that bang the bloomin drum. kidd if you throw your courtrements at me for tellin you the truth to your own advantage your leg ll swell. 
none the le there be a battle royal in the barrack room for the boy be consume with envy and hate and neither jakin nor lew behave in conciliatory wise. 
i m goin out to say adoo to my girl say lew to cap the climax. don t none o you touch my kit because it s want for active service. me bein specially invite to go by the colonel. 
he stroll forth and whistle in the clump of tree at the back of the marry quarter till cris come to him and the preliminary kiss be give and take lew begin to explain the situation. 
i m goin to the front with the reg ment he say valiantly. 
piggy you re a little liar say cris but her heart misgive her for lew be not in the habit of lie. 
liar yourself cris say lew slip an arm round her. i m goin. when the reg ment march out you ll see me with em all galliant and gay. give u another kiss cris on the strength of it. 
if you d on y a stay at the depot where you ought to ha bin you could get a many of em a a you dam please whimper cris put up her mouth. 
it s ard cris. i grant you it s ard. but what s a man to do. if i d a stay at the depot you wouldn t think anything of me. 
like a not but i d ave you with me piggy. an all the thinkin in the world isn t like kissin. 
an all the kissin in the world isn t like avin a medal to wear on the front o your coat. 
you win t get no medal. 
oh yus i shall though. me an jakin be the only act drummer that ll be take along. all the rest be full men an we ll get our medal with them. 
they might ha take anybody but you piggy. you ll get kill you re so venturesome. stay with me piggy darlin down at the depot an i ll love you true for ever. 
ain t you goin to do that now_ cris. you say you be. 
o course i be but th other s more comfortable. wait till you ve grow a bite piggy. you aren t no tall than me now. 
[illustration. cris slide an arm round his neck. p. ]. 
i ve bin in the army for two year an i m not goin to get out of a chanst o seein service an don t you try to make me do so. i ll come back cris an when i take on a a man i ll marry you marry you when i m a lance. 
promise piggy. 
lew reflect on the future a arrange by jakin a short time previously but cris s mouth be very near to his own. 
i promise s elp me gawd. say he. 
cris slide an arm round his neck. 
i win t old you back no more piggy. go away an get your medal an i ll make you a new button bag a nice a i know how she whisper. 
put some o your air into it cris an i ll keep it in my pocket so long s i m alive. 
then cris weep anew and the interview end. 
public feel among the drummer boy rise to fever pitch and the life of jakin and lew become unenviable. not only have they be permit to enlist two year before the regulation boy s age fourteen but by virtue it seem of their extreme youth they be allow to go to the front which thing have not happen to act drummer within the knowledge of boy. the band which be to accompany the regiment have be cut down to the regulation twenty men the surplus return to the rank. jakin and lew be attach to the band a supernumerary though they would much have prefer be company bugler. 
don t matter much say jakin after the medical inspection. be thankful that we re low to go at all. the doctor e say that if we could stand what we take from the bazar sergeant s son we d stand pretty nigh anything. 
which we will say lew look tenderly at the rag and ill make housewife that cris have give him with a lock of her hair work into a sprawl l upon the cover. 
it be the best i could she sob. i wouldn t let mother nor the sergeant tailor elp me. keep it always piggy an remember i love you true. 
they march to the railway station nine hundred and sixty strong and every soul in cantonment turn out to see them go. the drummer gnash their teeth at jakin and lew march with the band the marry woman weep upon the platform and the regiment cheer it noble self black in the face. 
a nice level lot say the colonel to the second in command a they watch the first four company entrain. 
fit to do anything say the second in command enthusiastically. but it seem to me they re a think too young and tender for the work in hand. it s bitter cold up at the front now. 
they re sound enough say the colonel. we must take our chance of sick casualty. 
so they go northward ever northward past drove and drove of camel army of camp follower and legion of lade mule the throng thicken day by day till with a shriek the train pull up at a hopelessly congest junction where six line of temporary track accommodate six forty waggon train. where whistle blow babu sweat and commissariat officer swear from dawn till far into the night amid the wind drive chaff of the fodder bale and the low of a thousand steer. 
hurry up you re badly want at the front be the message that greet the fore and aft and the occupant of the red cross carriage tell the same tale. 
tisn t so much the bloomin fightin gasp a headbound trooper of hussar to a knot of admire fore and afts. tisn t so much the bloomin fightin though there s enough o that. it s the bloomin food an the bloomin climate. frost all night cept when it hail and biling sun all day and the water stink fit to knock you down. i get my ead chip like a egg. i ve get pneumonia too an my gut be all out o order. tain t no bloomin picnic in those part i can tell you. 
wot be the nigger like. demand a private. 
there s some prisoner in that train yonder. go an look at em. they re the aristocracy o the country. the common folk be a dash sight ugly. if you want to know what they fight with reach under my seat an pull out the long knife that s there. 
they drag out and behold for the first time the grim bone handle triangular afghan knife. it be almost a long a lew. 
that s the thing to jint ye say the trooper feebly. it can take off a man s arm at the shoulder a easy a slice butter. i halve the beggar that use that un but there s more of his like up above. they don t understand thrustin but they re devil to slice. 
the men stroll across the track to inspect the afghan prisoner. they be unlike any nigger that the fore and aft have ever meet these huge black haired scowl son of the beni israel. a the men star the afghan spat freely and mutter one to another with lower eye. 
my eye. wot awful swine. say jakin who be in the rear of the procession. say old man how you get puckrowed_ eh. kiswasti you wasn t hang for your ugly face hey. 
the tall of the company turn his leg iron clank at the movement and star at the boy. see. he cry to his fellow in pushto. they send child against u. what a people and what fool. 
[illustration. the men stroll across the track to inspect the afghan prisoner. p. ]. 
hya. say jakin nod his head cheerily. you go down country. khana get peenikapanee get live like a bloomin raja ke marfik. that s a good bandobust than baynit get it in your innards. good bye ole man. take care o your beautiful figure ad an try to look kushy. 
the men laugh and fell in for their first march when they begin to realise that a soldier s life be not all beer and skittle. they be much impress with the size and bestial ferocity of the nigger whom they have now learn to call paythans and more with the exceed discomfort of their own surround. twenty old soldier in the corp would have teach them how to make themselves moderately snug at night but they have no old soldier and a the troop on the line of march say they live like pig. they learn the heart break cussedness of camp kitchen and camel and the depravity of an e. p. tent and a wither wring mule. they study animalculæ in water and develop a few case of dysentery in their study. 
at the end of their third march they be disagreeably surprise by the arrival in their camp of a hammer iron slug which fire from a steady rest at seven hundred yard flick out the brain of a private seat by the fire. this rob them of their peace for a night and be the begin of a long range fire carefully calculate to that end. in the daytime they saw nothing except an unpleasant puff of smoke from a crag above the line of march. at night there be distant spurt of flame and occasional casualty which set the whole camp blaze into the gloom and occasionally into opposite tent. then they swear vehemently and vow that this be magnificent but not war. 
indeed it be not. the regiment could not halt for reprisal against the sharpshooter of the countryside. it duty be to go forward and make connection with the scotch and gurkha troop with which it be brigade. the afghan know this and know too after their first tentative shot that they be deal with a raw regiment. thereafter they devote themselves to the task of keep the fore and aft on the strain. not for anything would they have take equal liberty with a season corp with the wicked little gurkha whose delight it be to lie out in the open on a dark night and stalk their stalker with the terrible big men dress in woman s clothe who could be hear pray to their god in the night watch and whose peace of mind no amount of snip could shake or with those vile sikh who march so ostentatiously unprepared and who deal out such grim reward to those who try to profit by that unpreparedness. this white regiment be different quite different. it sleep like a hog and like a hog charge in every direction when it be rouse. it sentry walk with a footfall that could be hear for a quarter of a mile would fire at anything that move even a drive donkey and when they have once fire could be scientifically rush and lay out a horror and an offence against the morning sun. then there be camp follower who straggle and could be cut up without fear. their shriek would disturb the white boy and the loss of their service would inconvenience them sorely. 
thus at every march the hide enemy become bold and the regiment writhe and twist under attack it could not avenge. the crown triumph be a sudden night rush end in the cut of many tent rope the collapse of the sodden canvas and a glorious knife of the men who struggle and kick below. it be a great deed neatly carry out and it shake the already shake nerve of the fore and aft. all the courage that they have be require to exercise up to this point be the two o clock in the morning courage. and so far they have only succeed in shoot their comrade and lose their sleep. 
sullen discontent cold savage sick with their uniform dull and unclean the fore and aft join their brigade. 
i hear you have a tough time of it come up say the brigadier. but when he saw the hospital sheet his face fell. 
this be bad say he to himself. they re a rotten a sheep. and aloud to the colonel i m afraid we can t spare you just yet. we want all we have else i should have give you ten day to recover in. 
the colonel wince. on my honour sir he return there be not the least necessity to think of spar u. my men have be rather maul and upset without a fair return. they only want to go in somewhere where they can see what s before them. 
can t say i think much of the fore and fit say the brigadier in confidence to his brigade major. they ve lose all their soldier and by the trim of them might have march through the country from the other side. a more fag out set of men i never put eye on. 
oh they ll improve a the work go on. the parade gloss ha be rub off a little but they ll put on field polish before long say the brigade major. they ve be maul and they don t quite understand it. 
they do not. all the hit be on one side and it be cruelly hard hit with accessory that make them sick. there be also the real sickness that lay hold of a strong man and drag him howl to the grave. bad of all their officer know just a little of the country a the men themselves and look a if they do. the fore and aft be in a thoroughly unsatisfactory condition but they believe that all would be well if they could once get a fair go in at the enemy. pot shot up and down the valley be unsatisfactory and the bayonet never seem to get a chance. perhaps it be a well for a long limbed afghan with a knife have a reach of eight foot and could carry away lead that would disable three englishman. 
the fore and fit would like some rifle practice at the enemy all seven hundred rifle blaze together. that wish show the mood of the men. 
the gurkha walk into their camp and in break barrack room english strive to fraternise with them. offer them pipe of tobacco and stand them treat at the canteen. but the fore and aft not know much of the nature of the gurkha treat them a they would treat any other nigger and the little men in green trot back to their firm friend the highlander and with many grin confide to them. that dam white regiment no dam use. sulky ugh. dirty ugh. hya any tot for johnny. whereat the highlander smite the gurkha a to the head and tell them not to vilify a british regiment and the gurkha grin cavernously for the highlander be their elder brother and entitle to the privilege of kinship. the common soldier who touch a gurkha be more than likely to have his head slice open. 
three day late the brigadier arrange a battle accord to the rule of war and the peculiarity of the afghan temperament. the enemy be mass in inconvenient strength among the hill and the move of many green standard warn him that the tribe be up in aid of the afghan regular troop. a squadron and a half of bengal lancer represent the available cavalry and two screw gun borrow from a column thirty mile away the artillery at the general s disposal. 
if they stand a i ve a very strong notion that they will i fancy we shall see an infantry fight that will be worth watch say the brigadier. we ll do it in style. each regiment shall be play into action by it band and we ll hold the cavalry in reserve. 
for all the reserve. somebody ask. 
for all the reserve. because we re go to crumple them up say the brigadier who be an extraordinary brigadier and do not believe in the value of a reserve when deal with asiatic. indeed when you come to think of it have the british army consistently wait for reserve in all it little affair the boundary of our empire would have stop at brighton beach. 
that battle be to be a glorious battle. 
the three regiment debouch from three separate gorge after duly crown the height above be to converge from the centre leave and right upon what we will call the afghan army then station towards the low extremity of a flat bottom valley. thus it will be see that three side of the valley practically belong to the english while the fourth be strictly afghan property. in the event of defeat the afghan have the rocky hill to fly to where the fire from the guerilla tribe in aid would cover their retreat. in the event of victory these same tribe would rush down and lend their weight to the rout of the british. 
the screw gun be to shell the head of each afghan rush that be make in close formation and the cavalry hold in reserve in the right valley be to gently stimulate the break up which would follow on the combine attack. the brigadier sit upon a rock overlook the valley would watch the battle unroll at his foot. the fore and aft would debouch from the central gorge the gurkha from the leave and the highlander from the right for the reason that the leave flank of the enemy seem a though it require the most hammer. it be not every day that an afghan force would take grind in the open and the brigadier be resolve to make the most of it. 
if we only have a few more men he say plaintively we could surround the creature and crumple em up thoroughly. a it be i m afraid we can only cut them up a they run. it s a great pity. 
the fore and aft have enjoy unbroken peace for five day and be begin in spite of dysentery to recover their nerve. but they be not happy for they do not know the work in hand and have they know would not have know how to do it. throughout those five day in which old soldier might have teach them the craft of the game they discuss together their misadventure in the past how such an one be alive at dawn and dead ere the dusk and with what shriek and struggle such another have give up his soul under the afghan knife. death be a new and horrible thing to the son of mechanic who be use to die decently of zymotic disease. and their careful conservation in barrack have do nothing to make them look upon it with le dread. 
very early in the dawn the bugle begin to blow and the fore and aft fill with a misguide enthusiasm turn out without wait for a cup of coffee and a biscuit. and be reward by be keep under arm in the cold while the other regiment leisurely prepare for the fray. all the world know that it be ill take the breeks off a highland. it be much ill to try to make him stir unless he be convince of the necessity for haste. 
the fore and aft wait lean upon their rifle and listen to the protest of their empty stomach. the colonel do his best to remedy the default of line a soon a it be bear in upon him that the affair would not begin at once and so well do he succeed that the coffee be just ready when the men move off their band lead. even then there have be a mistake in time and the fore and aft come out into the valley ten minute before the proper hour. their band wheel to the right after reach the open and retire behind a little rocky knoll still play while the regiment go past. 
it be not a pleasant sight that open on the uninstructed view for the low end of the valley appear to be fill by an army in position real and actual regiment attire in red coat and of this there be no doubt fire martini henry bullet which cut up the grind a hundred yard in front of the lead company. over that pock mark grind the regiment have to pas and it open the ball with a general and profound courtesy to the pip picket. duck in perfect time a though it have be braze on a rod. be half capable of think for itself it fire a volley by the simple process of pitch it rifle into it shoulder and pull the trigger. the bullet may have account for some of the watcher on the hillside but they certainly do not affect the mass of enemy in front while the noise of the rifle drown any order that might have be give. 
good god. say the brigadier sit on the rock high above all. that regiment ha spoil the whole show. hurry up the others and let the screw gun get off. 
but the screw gun in work round the height have stumble upon a wasp s nest of a small mud fort which they incontinently shell at eight hundred yard to the huge discomfort of the occupant who be unaccustomed to weapon of such devilish precision. 
the fore and aft continue to go forward but with shorten stride. where be the other regiment and why do these nigger use martini. they take open order instinctively lie down and fire at random rush a few pace forward and lie down again accord to the regulation. once in this formation each man felt himself desperately alone and edge in towards his fellow for comfort s sake. 
then the crack of his neighbour s rifle at his ear lead him to fire a rapidly a he could again for the sake of the comfort of the noise. the reward be not long delay. five volley plunge the file in bank smoke impenetrable to the eye and the bullet begin to take grind twenty or thirty yard in front of the firers a the weight of the bayonet drag down and to the right arm weary with hold the kick of the leap martini. the company commander peer helplessly through the smoke the more nervous mechanically try to fan it away with their helmet. 
high and to the leave. bawl a captain till he be hoarse. no good. cease fire and let it drift away a bite. 
three and four time the bugle shriek the order and when it be obey the fore and aft look that their foe should be lie before them in mow swath of men. a light wind drive the smoke to leeward and show the enemy still in position and apparently unaffected. a quarter of a ton of lead have be bury a furlong in front of them a the rag earth attest. 
that be not demoralise to the afghan who have not european nerve. they be wait for the mad riot to die down and be fire quietly into the heart of the smoke. a private of the fore and aft spin up his company shriek with agony another be kick the earth and gasp and a third rip through the low intestine by a jag bullet be call aloud on his comrade to put him out of his pain. these be the casualty and they be not soothe to hear or see. the smoke clear to a dull haze. 
then the foe begin to shout with a great shout and a mass a black mass detach itself from the main body and roll over the grind at horrid speed. it be compose of perhaps three hundred men who would shout and fire and slash if the rush of their fifty comrade who be determine to die carry home. the fifty be ghazis half madden with drug and wholly mad with religious fanaticism. when they rush the british fire cease and in the lull the order be give to close rank and meet them with the bayonet. 
any one who know the business could have tell the fore and aft that the only way of deal with a ghazi rush be by volley at long range. because a man who mean to die who desire to die who will gain heaven by die must in nine case out of ten kill a man who ha a linger prejudice in favour of life. where they should have close and go forward the fore and aft open out and skirmish and where they should have open out and fire they close and wait. 
a man drag from his blanket half awake and unfed be never in a pleasant frame of mind. nor doe his happiness increase when he watch the white of the eye of three hundred six foot fiend upon whose beard the foam be lie upon whose tongue be a roar of wrath and in whose hand be yard long knife. 
the fore and aft hear the gurkha bugle bring that regiment forward at the double while the neigh of the highland pipe come from the leave. they strive to stay where they be though the bayonet waver down the line like the oar of a rag boat. then they felt body to body the amaze physical strength of their foe. a shriek of pain end the rush and the knife fell amid scene not to be tell. the men club together and smite blindly a often a not at their own fellow. their front crumple like paper and the fifty ghazis pass on. their backer now drink with success fight a madly a they. 
then the rear rank be bid to close up and the subaltern dash into the stew alone. for the rear rank have hear the clamour in front the yell and the howl of pain and have see the dark stale blood that make afraid. they be not go to stay. it be the rush of the camp over again. let their officer go to hell if they choose. they would get away from the knife. 
come on. shriek the subaltern and their men curse them draw back each close into his neighbour and wheel round. 
charteris and devlin subaltern of the last company face their death alone in the belief that their men would follow. 
you ve kill me you coward sob devlin and drop cut from the shoulder strap to the centre of the chest and a fresh detachment of his men retreat always retreat trample him under foot a they make for the pas whence they have emerge. 
i kiss her in the kitchen and i kiss her in the hall. child un child un follow me. oh golly say the cook be he gwine to kiss u all. halla halla halla hallelujah. 
the gurkha be pour through the leave gorge and over the height at the double to the invitation of their regimental quick step. the black rock be crown with dark green spider a the bugle give tongue jubilantly. 
in the morning. in the morning by the bright light. when gabriel blow his trumpet in the morning. 
the gurkha rear company trip and blunder over loose stone. the front file halt for a moment to take stock of the valley and to settle stray boot lace. then a happy little sigh of contentment sough down the rank and it be a though the land smile for behold there below be the enemy and it be to meet them that the gurkha have double so hastily. there be much enemy. there would be amusement. the little men hitch their kukris well to hand and gap expectantly at their officer a terrier grin ere the stone be cast for them to fetch. the gurkha grind slop downward to the valley and they enjoy a fair view of the proceeding. they sit upon the boulder to watch for their officer be not go to waste their wind in assist to repulse a ghazi rush more than half a mile away. let the white men look to their own front. 
hi. yi. say the subadar major who be sweat profusely. dam fool yonder stand close order. this be no time for close order it be the time for volley. ugh. 
horrify amuse and indignant the gurkha behold the retirement of the fore and aft with a run chorus of oath and commentary. 
they run. the white men run. colonel sahib may we also do a little run. murmur runbir thappa the senior jemadar. 
but the colonel would have none of it. let the beggar be cut up a little say he wrathfully. serf em right. they ll be prod into face round in a minute. he look through his field glass and catch the glint of an officer s sword. 
beat em with the flat damn conscript. how the ghazis be walk into them. say he. 
the fore and aft head back bore with them their officer. the narrowness of the pas force the mob into solid formation and the rear rank deliver some sort of a waver volley. the ghazis draw off for they do not know what reserve the gorge might hide. moreover it be never wise to chase white men too far. they return a wolf return to cover satisfy with the slaughter that they have do and only stop to slash at the wound on the grind. a quarter of a mile have the fore and aft retreat and now jam in the pas be quiver with pain shake and demoralise with fear while the officer madden beyond control smite the men with the hilt and the flat of their sword. 
get back. get back you coward you woman. right about face column of company form you hound. shout the colonel and the subaltern swear aloud. but the regiment want to go to go anywhere out of the range of those merciless knife. it sway to and fro irresolutely with shout and outcry while from the right the gurkha drop volley after volley of cripple stopper snide bullet at long range into the mob of the ghazis return to their own troop. 
the fore and aft band though protect from direct fire by the rocky knoll under which it have sit down flee at the first rush. jakin and lew would have flee also but their short leg leave them fifty yard in the rear and by the time the band have mix with the regiment they be painfully aware that they would have to close in alone and unsupported. 
get back to that rock gasp jakin. they win t see u there. 
and they return to the scatter instrument of the band. their heart nearly burst their rib. 
here s a nice show for us_ say jakin throw himself full length on the grind. a bloomin fine show for british infantry. oh the devil. they ve go an leave u alone here. wot ll we do. 
lew take possession of a cast off water bottle which naturally be full of canteen rum and drink till he cough again. 
drink say he shortly. they ll come back in a minute or two you see. 
jakin drink but there be no sign of the regiment s return. they could hear a dull clamour from the head of the valley of retreat and saw the ghazis slink back quicken their pace a the gurkha fire at them. 
we re all that s leave of the band an we ll be cut up a sure a death say jakin. 
i ll die game then say lew thickly fumble with his tiny drummer s sword. the drink be work on his brain a it be on jakin s. 
old on. i know something good than fightin say jakin sting by the splendour of a sudden think due chiefly to rum. tip our bloomin coward yonder the word to come back. the paythan beggar be well away. come on lew. we win t get hurt. take the fife and give me the drum. the old step for all your bloomin gut be worth. there s a few of our men come back now. stand up ye drunken little defaulter. by your right quick march. 
he slip the drum sling over his shoulder thrust the fife into lew s hand and the two boy march out of the cover of the rock into the open make a hideous hash of the first bar of the british grenadier. 
a jakin have say a few of the fore and aft be come back sullenly and shamefacedly under the stimulus of blow and abuse. their red coat shine at the head of the valley and behind them be waver bayonet. but between this shatter line and the enemy who with afghan suspicion fear that the hasty retreat mean an ambush and have not move therefore lay half a mile of level grind dot only by the wound. 
[illustration. the tune settle into full swing and the boy keep shoulder to shoulder. p. ]. 
the tune settle into full swing and the boy keep shoulder to shoulder jakin bang the drum a one possess. the one fife make a thin and pitiful squeak but the tune carry far even to the gurkha. 
come on you dog. mutter jakin to himself. be we to play for hever. lew be star straight in front of him and march more stiffly than ever he have do on parade. 
and in bitter mockery of the distant mob the old tune of the old line shrill and rattle. 
some talk of alexander and some of hercules. of hector and lysander and such great name a these. 
there be a far off clap of hand from the gurkha and a roar from the highlander in the distance but never a shoot be fire by british or afghan. the two little red dot move forward in the open parallel to the enemy s front. 
but of all the world s great hero there s none that can compare with a tow row row row row row to the british grenadier. 
the men of the fore and aft be gather thick at the entrance to the plain. the brigadier on the height far above be speechless with rage. still no movement from the enemy. the day stay to watch the child. 
jakin halt and beat the long roll of the assembly while the fife squeal despairingly. 
right about face. hold up lew you re drink say jakin. they wheel and march back. 
those hero of antiquity ne er saw a cannon ball nor know the force o powder. 
here they come. say jakin. go on lew. 
to scare their foe withal. 
the fore and aft be pour out of the valley. what officer have say to men in that time of shame and humiliation will never be know. for neither officer nor men speak of it now. 
they be come anew. shout a priest among the afghan. do not kill the boy. take them alive and they shall be of our faith. 
but the first volley have be fire and lew drop on his face. jakin stand for a minute spin round and collapse a the fore and aft come forward the curse of their officer in their ear and in their heart the shame of open shame. 
half the men have see the drummer die and they make no sign. they do not even shout. they double out straight across the plain in open order and they do not fire. 
this say the colonel of gurkha softly be the real attack a it should have be deliver. come on my child. 
ulu lu lu lu. squeal the gurkha and come down with a joyful click of kukris those vicious gurkha knife. 
on the right there be no rush. the highlander cannily commend their soul to god. for it matter a much to a dead man whether he ha be shoot in a border scuffle or at waterloo. open out and fire accord to their custom that be to say without heat and without interval while the screw gun have dispose of the impertinent mud fort aforementioned drop shell after shell into the cluster round the flicker green standard on the height. 
charrging be an unfortunate necessity murmur the colour sergeant of the right company of the highlander. it make the men sweer so but i be thinkin that it will come to a charrge if these black devil stand much long. stewarrt man you re fire into the eye of the sun and he ll not take any harm for government ammuneetion. a foot low and a great deal slow. what be the english do. they re very quiet there in the centre. run again. 
the english be not run. they be hack and hew and stab for though one white man be seldom physically a match for an afghan in a sheepskin or wad coat yet through the pressure of many white men behind and a certain thirst for revenge in his heart he become capable of do much with both end of his rifle. the fore and aft hold their fire till one bullet could drive through five or six men and the front of the afghan force give on the volley. they then select their men and slew them with deep gasp and short hack cough and groan of leather belt against strain body and realise for the first time that an afghan attack be far le formidable than an afghan attack. which fact old soldier might have tell them. 
but they have no old soldier in their rank. 
the gurkha stall at the bazar be the noisy for the men be engage to a nasty noise a of beef be cut on the block with the kukri_ which they prefer to the bayonet. well know how the afghan hate the half moon blade. 
a the afghan waver the green standard on the mountain move down to assist them in a last rally. this be unwise. the lancer chafe in the right gorge have thrice despatch their only subaltern a galloper to report on the progress of affair. on the third occasion he return with a bullet graze on his knee swear strange oath in hindustani and say that all thing be ready. so that squadron swing round the right of the highlander with a wicked whistle of wind in the pennon of it lance and fell upon the remnant just when accord to all the rule of war it should have wait for the foe to show more sign of waver. 
but it be a dainty charge deftly deliver and it end by the cavalry find itself at the head of the pas by which the afghan intend to retreat. and down the track that the lance have make stream two company of the highlander which be never intend by the brigadier. the new development be successful. it detach the enemy from his base a a sponge be tear from a rock and leave him ring about with fire in that pitiless plain. and a a sponge be chase round the bath tub by the hand of the bather so be the afghan chase till they break into little detachment much more difficult to dispose of than large mass. 
see. quoth the brigadier. everything ha come a i arrange. we ve cut their base and now we ll bucket em to piece. 
a direct hammer be all that the brigadier have dare to hope for consider the size of the force at his disposal. but men who stand or fall by the error of their opponent may be forgive for turn chance into design. the bucket go forward merrily. the afghan force be upon the run the run of weary wolf who snarl and bite over their shoulder. the red lance dip by two and three and with a shriek up rise the lance butt like a spar on a stormy sea a the trooper canter forward clear his point. the lancer keep between their prey and the steep hill for all who could be try to escape from the valley of death. the highlander give the fugitive two hundred yard law and then bring them down gasp and choke ere they could reach the protection of the boulder above. the gurkha follow suit. but the fore and aft be kill on their own account for they have pen a mass of men between their bayonet and a wall of rock and the flash of the rifle be light the wad coat. 
we cannot hold them captain sahib. pant a ressaidar of lancer. let u try the carbine. the lance be good but it waste time. 
they try the carbine and still the enemy melt away flee up the hill by hundred when there be only twenty bullet to stop them. on the height the screw gun cease fire they have run out of ammunition and the brigadier groan for the musketry fire could not sufficiently smash the retreat. long before the last volley be fire the doolies be out in force look for the wound. the battle be over and but for want of fresh troop the afghan would have be wipe off the earth. a it be they count their dead by hundred and nowhere be the dead thick than in the track of the fore and aft. 
but the regiment do not cheer with the highlander nor do they dance uncouth dance with the gurkha among the dead. they look under their brow at the colonel a they lean upon their rifle and pant. 
get back to camp you. haven t you disgrace yourself enough for one day. go and look to the wound. it s all you re fit for say the colonel. yet for the past hour the fore and aft have be do all that mortal commander could expect. they have lose heavily because they do not know how to set about their business with proper skill but they have bear themselves gallantly and this be their reward. 
a young and sprightly colour sergeant who have begin to imagine himself a hero offer his water bottle to a highland whose tongue be black with thirst. i drink with no coward answer the youngster huskily and turn to a gurkha say hya johnny. drink water get it. the gurkha grin and pass his bottle. the fore and aft say no word. 
they go back to camp when the field of strife have be a little mop up and make presentable and the brigadier who saw himself a knight in three month be the only soul who be complimentary to them. the colonel be heart break and the officer be savage and sullen. 
well say the brigadier they be young troop of course and it be not unnatural that they should retire in disorder for a bite. 
oh my only aunt maria. murmur a junior staff officer. retire in disorder. it be a bally run. 
but they come again a we all know coo the brigadier the colonel s ashy white face before him and they behave a well a could possibly be expect. behave beautifully indeed. i be watch them. it s not a matter to take to heart colonel. a some german general say of his men they want to be shoot over a little that be all. to himself he say now they re blood i can give em responsible work. it s a well that they get what they do. teach em more than half a dozen rifle flirtation that will late run alone and bite. poor old colonel though. 
all that afternoon the heliograph wink and flicker on the hill strive to tell the good news to a mountain forty mile away. and in the even there arrive dusty sweat and sore a misguide correspondent who have go out to assist at a trumpery village burn and who have read off the message from afar curse his luck the while. 
let s have the detail somehow a full a ever you can please. it s the first time i ve ever be leave this campaign say the correspondent to the brigadier. and the brigadier nothing loath tell him how an army of communication have be crumple up destroy and all but annihilate by the craft strategy wisdom and foresight of the brigadier. 
but some say and among these be the gurkha who watch on the hillside that that battle be win by jakin and lew whose little body be bear up just in time to fit two gap at the head of the big ditch grave for the dead under the height of jagai. 
[illustration]. 
[illustration]. 
the man who be. 
the earth give up her dead that tide into our camp he come and say his say and go his way and leave our heart aflame. 
keep tally on the gun butt score the vengeance we must take when god shall bring full reckon for our dead comrade s sake. 
ballad. 
let it be clearly understand that the russian be a delightful person till he tuck in his shirt. a an oriental he be charm. it be only when he insist upon be treat a the most easterly of western people instead of the most westerly of easterns that he become a racial anomaly extremely difficult to handle. the host never know which side of his nature be go to turn up next. 
dirkovitch be a russian a russian of the russian who appear to get his bread by serve the czar a an officer in a cossack regiment and correspond for a russian newspaper with a name that be never twice alike. he be a handsome young oriental fond of wander through unexplored portion of the earth and he arrive in india from nowhere in particular. at least no live man could ascertain whether it be by way of balkh badakshan chitral beluchistan or nepaul or anywhere else. the indian government be in an unusually affable mood give order that he be to be civilly treat and show everything that be to be see. so he drift talk bad english and bad french from one city to another till he foregather with her majesty s white hussar in the city of peshawur which stand at the mouth of that narrow swordcut in the hill that men call the khyber pas. he be undoubtedly an officer and he be decorate after the manner of the russian with little enamel cross and he could talk and. though this ha nothing to do with his merit. he have be give up a a hopeless task or cask by the black tyrone who individually and collectively with hot whisky and honey mull brandy and mix spirit of every kind have strive in all hospitality to make him drink. and when the black tyrone who be exclusively irish fail to disturb the peace of head of a foreigner that foreigner be certain to be a superior man. 
the white hussar be a conscientious in choose their wine a in charge the enemy. all that they possess include some wondrous brandy be place at the absolute disposition of dirkovitch and he enjoy himself hugely even more than among the black tyrones. 
but he remain distressingly european through it all. the white hussar be my dear true friend fellow soldier glorious and brother inseparable. he would unburden himself by the hour on the glorious future that await the combine arm of england and russia when their heart and their territory should run side by side and the great mission of civilise asia should begin. that be unsatisfactory because asia be not go to be civilise after the method of the west. there be too much asia and she be too old. you cannot reform a lady of many lover and asia ha be insatiable in her flirtation aforetime. she will never attend sunday school or learn to vote save with sword for ticket. 
dirkovitch know this a well a any one else but it suit him to talk special correspondently and to make himself a genial a he could. now and then he volunteer a little a very little information about his own sotnia of cossack leave apparently to look after themselves somewhere at the back of beyond. he have do rough work in central asia and have see rather more help your self fight than most men of his year. but he be careful never to betray his superiority and more than careful to praise on all occasion the appearance drill uniform and organisation of her majesty s white hussar. and indeed they be a regiment to be admire. when lady durgan widow of the late sir john durgan arrive in their station and after a short time have be propose to by every single man at mess she put the public sentiment very neatly when she explain that they be all so nice that unless she could marry them all include the colonel and some major already marry she be not go to content herself with one hussar. wherefore she wed a little man in a rifle regiment be by nature contradictious. and the white hussar be go to wear crape on their arm but compromise by attend the wed in full force and line the aisle with unutterable reproach. she have jilt them all from basset holmer the senior captain to little mildred the junior subaltern who could have give her four thousand a year and a title. 
the only person who do not share the general regard for the white hussar be a few thousand gentleman of jewish extraction who live across the border and answer to the name of paythan. they have once meet the regiment officially and for something le than twenty minute but the interview which be complicate with many casualty have fill them with prejudice. they even call the white hussar child of the devil and son of person whom it would be perfectly impossible to meet in decent society. yet they be not above make their aversion fill their money belt. the regiment possess carbine beautiful martini henri carbine that would lop a bullet into an enemy s camp at one thousand yard and be even handy than the long rifle. therefore they be covet all along the border and since demand inevitably breed supply they be supply at the risk of life and limb for exactly their weight in coin silver seven and one half pound weight of rupee or sixteen pound sterling reckon the rupee at par. they be steal at night by snaky haired thief who crawl on their stomach under the nose of the sentry. they disappear mysteriously from lock arm rack and in the hot weather when all the barrack door and window be open they vanish like puff of their own smoke. the border people desire them for family vendetta and contingency. but in the long cold night of the northern indian winter they be steal most extensively. the traffic of murder be lively among the hill at that season and price rule high. the regimental guard be first double and then treble. a trooper doe not much care if he lose a weapon government must make it good but he deeply resent the loss of his sleep. the regiment grow very angry and one rifle thief bear the visible mark of their anger upon him to this hour. that incident stop the burglary for a time and the guard be reduce accordingly and the regiment devote itself to polo with unexpected result. for it beat by two goal to one that very terrible polo corp the lushkar light horse though the latter have four pony apiece for a short hour s fight a well a a native officer who play like a lambent flame across the grind. 
they give a dinner to celebrate the event. the lushkar team come and dirkovitch come in the full full uniform of a cossack officer which be a full a a dress gown and be introduce to the lushkars and open his eye a he regard. they be light men than the hussar and they carry themselves with the swing that be the peculiar right of the punjab frontier force and all irregular horse. like everything else in the service it ha to be learn but unlike many thing it be never forget and remain on the body till death. 
the great beam roof mess room of the white hussar be a sight to be remember. all the mess plate be out on the long table the same table that have serve up the body of five officer after a forget fight long and long ago the dingy batter standard face the door of entrance clump of winter rose lay between the silver candlestick and the portrait of eminent officer decease look down on their successor from between the head of sambhur nilghai markhor and pride of all the mess two grin snow leopard that have cost basset holmer four month leave that he might have spend in england instead of on the road to thibet and the daily risk of his life by ledge snow slide and grassy slope. 
the servant in spotless white muslin and the crest of their regiment on the brow of their turban wait behind their master who be clothe in the scarlet and gold of the white hussar and the cream and silver of the lushkar light horse. dirkovitch s dull green uniform be the only dark spot at the board but his big onyx eye make up for it. he be fraternise effusively with the captain of the lushkar team who be wonder how many of dirkovitch s cossack his own dark wiry down country men could account for in a fair charge. but one doe not speak of these thing openly. 
[illustration. ring ho_ hira singh. p. ]. 
the talk rise high and high and the regimental band play between the course a be the immemorial custom till all tongue cease for a moment with the removal of the dinner slip and the first toast of obligation when an officer rise say mr. vice the queen and little mildred from the bottom of the table answer the queen god bless her and the big spur clank a the big men heave themselves up and drink the queen upon whose pay they be falsely suppose to settle their mess bill. that sacrament of the mess never grow old and never cease to bring a lump into the throat of the listener wherever he be by sea or by land. dirkovitch rise with his brother glorious but he could not understand. no one but an officer can tell what the toast mean. and the bulk have more sentiment than comprehension. immediately after the little silence that follow on the ceremony there enter the native officer who have play for the lushkar team. he could not of course eat with the mess but he come in at dessert all six foot of him with the blue and silver turban atop and the big black boot below. the mess rise joyously a he thrust forward the hilt of his sabre in token of fealty for the colonel of the white hussar to touch and drop in a vacant chair amid shout of. ring ho_ hira singh. which be translate mean go in and win. do i whack you over the knee old man. ressaidar sahib what the devil make you play that kick pig of a pony in the last ten minute. shabash_ ressaidar sahib. then the voice of the colonel the health of ressaidar hira singh. 
after the shout have die away hira singh rise to reply for he be the cadet of a royal house the son of a king s son and know what be due on these occasion. thus he speak in the vernacular. colonel sahib and officer of this regiment. much honour have you do me. this will i remember. we come down from afar to play you. but we be beat. no fault of yours ressaidar sahib. play on our own grind y know. your pony be cramp from the railway. don t apologise. therefore perhaps we will come again if it be so ordain. hear. hear. hear indeed. bravo. hsh. then we will play you afresh. happy to meet you. till there be leave no foot upon our pony. thus far for sport. he drop one hand on his sword hilt and his eye wander to dirkovitch loll back in his chair. but if by the will of god there arise any other game which be not the polo game then be assure colonel sahib and officer that we will play it out side by side though they_ again his eye seek dirkovitch though they i say have fifty pony to our one horse. and with a deep mouth ring ho. that sound like a musket butt on flagstone he sit down amid leap glass. 
dirkovitch who have devote himself steadily to the brandy the terrible brandy aforementioned do not understand nor do the expurgate translation offer to him at all convey the point. decidedly hira singh s be the speech of the even and the clamour might have continue to the dawn have it not be break by the noise of a shoot without that send every man feel at his defenceless leave side. then there be a scuffle and a yell of pain. 
carbine steal again. say the adjutant calmly sink back in his chair. this come of reduce the guard. i hope the sentry have kill him. 
the foot of arm men pound on the veranda flag and it be a though something be be drag. 
why don t they put him in the cell till the morning. say the colonel testily. see if they ve damage him sergeant. 
the mess sergeant flee out into the darkness and return with two trooper and a corporal all very much perplex. 
catch a man stealin carbine sir say the corporal. leastways e be crawlin towards the barricks sir past the main road sentry an the sentry e sez sir. 
the limp heap of rag uphold by the three men groan. never be see so destitute and demoralise an afghan. he be turbanless shoeless cake with dirt and all but dead with rough handle. hira singh start slightly at the sound of the man s pain. dirkovitch take another glass of brandy. 
what doe the sentry say. say the colonel. 
sez e speak english sir say the corporal. 
so you bring him into mess instead of hand him over to the sergeant. if he speak all the tongue of the pentecost you ve no business. 
again the bundle groan and mutter. little mildred have rise from his place to inspect. he jump back a though he have be shoot. 
perhaps it would be good sir to send the men away say he to the colonel for he be a much privilege subaltern. he put his arm round the rag bind horror a he speak and drop him into a chair. it may not have be explain that the littleness of mildred lay in his be six foot four and big in proportion. the corporal see that an officer be dispose to look after the capture and that the colonel s eye be begin to blaze promptly remove himself and his men. the mess be leave alone with the carbine thief who lay his head on the table and weep bitterly hopelessly and inconsolably a little child weep. 
hira singh leap to his foot. colonel sahib say he that man be no afghan for they weep ai. ai. nor be he of hindustan for they weep oh. ho. he weep after the fashion of the white men who say ow. ow. 
now where the dickens do you get that knowledge hira singh. say the captain of the lushkar team. 
hear him. say hira singh simply point at the crumple figure that weep a though it would never cease. 
he say my god. say little mildred. i hear him say it. 
the colonel and the mess room look at the man in silence. it be a horrible thing to hear a man cry. a woman can sob from the top of her palate or her lip or anywhere else but a man must cry from his diaphragm and it rend him to piece. 
poor devil. say the colonel cough tremendously. we ought to send him to hospital. he s be man handle. 
now the adjutant love his carbine. they be to him a his grandchild the men stand in the first place. he grunt rebelliously. i can understand an afghan steal because he s build that way. but i can t understand his cry. that make it bad. 
the brandy must have affect dirkovitch for he lay back in his chair and star at the ceiling. there be nothing special in the ceiling beyond a shadow a of a huge black coffin. owe to some peculiarity in the construction of the mess room this shadow be always throw when the candle be light. it never disturb the digestion of the white hussar. they be in fact rather proud of it. 
be he go to cry all night. say the colonel or be we suppose to sit up with little mildred s guest until he feel good. 
the man in the chair throw up his head and star at the mess. oh my god. he say and every soul in the mess rise to his foot. then the lushkar captain do a deed for which he ought to have be give the victoria cross distinguish gallantry in a fight against overwhelm curiosity. he pick up his team with his eye a the host pick up the lady at the opportune moment and pause only by the colonel s chair to say this isn t our affair you know sir lead them into the veranda and the garden. hira singh be the last to go and he look at dirkovitch. but dirkovitch have depart into a brandy paradise of his own. his lip move without sound and he be study the coffin on the ceiling. 
white white all over say basset holmer the adjutant. what a pernicious renegade he must be. i wonder where he come from. 
the colonel shake the man gently by the arm and who be you. say he. 
there be no answer. the man star round the mess room and smile in the colonel s face. little mildred who be always more of a woman than a man till boot and saddle be sound repeat the question in a voice that would have draw confidence from a geyser. the man only smile. dirkovitch at the far end of the table slide gently from his chair to the floor. no son of adam in this present imperfect world can mix the hussar champagne with the hussar brandy by five and eight glass of each without remember the pit whence he be digged and descend thither. the band begin to play the tune with which the white hussar from the date of their formation have conclude all their function. they would sooner be disband than abandon that tune. it be a part of their system. the man straighten himself in his chair and drum on the table with his finger. 
[illustration. he find the spring. p. ]. 
i don t see why we should entertain lunatic say the colonel. call a guard and send him off to the cell. we ll look into the business in the morning. give him a glass of wine first though. 
little mildred fill a sherry glass with the brandy and thrust it over to the man. he drink and the tune rise loud and he straighten himself yet more. then he put out his long taloned hand to a piece of plate opposite and finger it lovingly. there be a mystery connect with that piece of plate in the shape of a spring which convert what be a seven branch candlestick three spring on each side and one in the middle into a sort of wheel speak candelabrum. he find the spring press it and laugh weakly. he rise from his chair and inspect a picture on the wall then move on to another picture the mess watch him without a word. when he come to the mantelpiece he shake his head and seem distress. a piece of plate represent a mount hussar in full uniform catch his eye. he point to it and then to the mantelpiece with inquiry in his eye. 
what be it oh what be it. say little mildred. then a a mother might speak to a child that be a horse. yes a horse. 
very slowly come the answer in a thick passionless guttural yes i have see. but where be the horse. 
you could have hear the heart of the mess beat a the men draw back to give the strange full room in his wandering. there be no question of call the guard. 
again he speak very slowly where be our horse. 
there be but one horse in the white hussar and his portrait hang outside the door of the mess room. he be the piebald drum horse the king of the regimental band that serve the regiment for seven and thirty year and in the end be shoot for old age. half the mess tear the thing down from it place and thrust it into the man s hand. he place it above the mantelpiece it clatter on the ledge a his poor hand drop it and he stagger towards the bottom of the table fall into mildred s chair. then all the men speak to one another something after this fashion the drum horse hasn t hang over the mantelpiece since. how doe he know. mildred go and speak to him again. colonel what be you go to do. oh dry up and give the poor devil a chance to pull himself together. it isn t possible anyhow. the man s a lunatic. 
little mildred stand at the colonel s side talk in his ear. will you be good enough to take your seat please gentleman. he say and the mess drop into the chair. only dirkovitch s seat next to little mildred s be blank and little mildred himself have find hira singh s place. the wide eye mess sergeant fill the glass in dead silence. once more the colonel rise but his hand shake and the port spill on the table a he look straight at the man in little mildred s chair and say hoarsely mr. vice the queen. there be a little pause but the man spring to his foot and answer without hesitation the queen god bless her. and a he empty the thin glass he snap the shank between his finger. 
long and long ago when the empress of india be a young woman and there be no unclean ideal in the land it be the custom of a few mess to drink the queen s toast in break glass to the vast delight of the mess contractor. the custom be now dead because there be nothing to break anything for except now and again the word of a government and that ha be break already. 
that settle it say the colonel with a gasp. he s not a sergeant. what in the world be he. 
the entire mess echo the word and the volley of question would have scar any man. it be no wonder that the rag filthy invader could only smile and shake his head. 
from under the table calm and smile rise dirkovitch who have be rouse from healthful slumber by foot upon his body. by the side of the man he rise and the man shriek and grovel. it be a horrible sight come so swiftly upon the pride and glory of the toast that have bring the stray wit together. 
dirkovitch make no offer to raise him but little mildred heave him up in an instant. it be not good that a gentleman who can answer to the queen s toast should lie at the foot of a subaltern of cossack. 
the hasty action tear the wretch s upper clothe nearly to the waist and his body be seam with dry black scar. there be only one weapon in the world that cut in parallel line and it be neither the cane nor the cat. dirkovitch saw the mark and the pupil of his eye dilate. also his face change. he say something that sound like shto ve takete_ and the man fawn answer chetyre. 
[illustration. it be not good that a gentleman who can answer to the queen s toast should lie at the foot of a subaltern of cossack. p. ]. 
what s that. say everybody together. 
his number. that be number four you know dirkovitch speak very thickly. 
what ha a queen s officer to do with a qualify number. say the colonel and an unpleasant growl run round the table. 
how can i tell. say the affable oriental with a sweet smile. he be a how you have it. escape run a way from over there. he nod towards the darkness of the night. 
speak to him if he ll answer you and speak to him gently say little mildred settle the man in a chair. it seem most improper to all present that dirkovitch should sip brandy a he talk in purr spit russian to the creature who answer so feebly and with such evident dread. but since dirkovitch appear to understand no one say a word. all breathe heavily lean forward in the long gap of the conversation. the next time that they have no engagement on hand the white hussar intend to go to st. petersburg in a body to learn russian. 
he doe not know how many year ago say dirkovitch face the mess but he say it be very long ago in the war. i think that there be an accident. he say he be of this glorious and distinguish regiment in the war. 
the roll. the roll. holmer get the roll. say little mildred and the adjutant dash off bareheaded to the orderly room where the muster roll of the regiment be keep. he return just in time to hear dirkovitch conclude therefore my dear friend i be most sorry to say there be an accident which would have be reparable if he have apologise to that our colonel which he have insult. 
then follow another growl which the colonel try to beat down. the mess be in no mood just then to weigh insult to russian colonel. 
he doe not remember but i think that there be an accident and so he be not exchange among the prisoner but he be send to another place how do you say. the country. so_ he say he come here. he doe not know how he come. eh. he be at chepany the man catch the word nod and shiver at zhigansk and irkutsk. i cannot understand how he escape. he say too that he be in the forest for many year but how many year he ha forget that with many thing. it be an accident. do because he do not apologise to that our colonel. ah. 
instead of echo dirkovitch s sigh of regret it be sad to record that the white hussar livelily exhibit un christian delight and other emotion hardly restrain by their sense of hospitality. holmer fling the fray and yellow regimental roll on the table and the men fling themselves at these. 
steady. fifty six fifty five fifty four say holmer. here we be. lieutenant austin limmason. miss. that be before sebastopol. what an infernal shame. insult one of their colonel and be quietly ship off. thirty year of his life wipe out. 
but he never apologise. say he d see him damn first chorus the mess. 
poor chap. i suppose he never have the chance afterwards. how do he come here. say the colonel. 
the dingy heap in the chair could give no answer. 
do you know who you be. 
it laugh weakly. 
do you know that you be limmason lieutenant limmason of the white hussar. 
swiftly a a shoot come the answer in a slightly surprise tone yes i m limmason of course. the light die out in his eye and the man collapse watch every motion of dirkovitch with terror. a flight from siberia may fix a few elementary fact in the mind but it doe not seem to lead to continuity of think. the man could not explain how like a home pigeon he have find his way to his own old mess again. of what he have suffer or see he know nothing. he cringe before dirkovitch a instinctively a he have press the spring of the candlestick seek the picture of the drum horse and answer to the toast of the queen. the rest be a blank that the dread russian tongue could only in part remove. his head bow on his breast and he giggle and cower alternately. 
the devil that live in the brandy prompt dirkovitch at this extremely inopportune moment to make a speech. he rise sway slightly grip the table edge while his eye glow like opal and begin. 
fellow soldier glorious true friend and hospitables. it be an accident and deplorable most deplorable. here he smile sweetly all round the mess. but you will think of this little little thing. so little be it not. the czar. posh. i slap my finger i snap my finger at him. do i believe in him. no. but in u slav who ha do nothing him i believe. seventy how much million people that have do nothing not one thing. posh. napoleon be an episode. he bang a hand on the table. hear you old people we have do nothing in the world out here. all our work be to do. and it shall be do old people. get a way. he wave his hand imperiously and point to the man. you see him. he be no good to see. he be just one little oh so little accident that no one remember. now he be that. so will you be brother soldier so brave so will you be. but you will never come back. you will all go where he be go or he point to the great coffin shadow on the ceiling and mutter seventy million get a way you old people fell asleep. 
sweet and to the point say little mildred. what s the use of get wroth. let s make this poor devil comfortable. 
but that be a matter suddenly and swiftly take from the love hand of the white hussar. the lieutenant have return only to go away again three day late when the wail of the dead march and the tramp of the squadron tell the wonder station who saw no gap in the mess table that an officer of the regiment have resign his new find commission. 
and dirkovitch bland supple and always genial go away too by a night train. little mildred and another man saw him off for he be the guest of the mess and even have he smite the colonel with the open hand the law of that mess allow no relaxation of hospitality. 
good bye dirkovitch and a pleasant journey say little mildred. 
au revoir_ say the russian. 
indeed. but we think you be go home. 
yes but i will come again. my dear friend be that road shut. he point to where the north star burn over the khyber pas. 
by jove. i forget. of course. happy to meet you old man any time you like. get everything you want. cheroot ice bed. that s all right. well au revoir_ dirkovitch. 
um say the other man a the tail light of the train grow small. of all the unmitigated. 
little mildred answer nothing but watch the north star and hum a selection from a recent simla burlesque that have much delight the white hussar. it run. 
i m sorry for mister bluebeard i m sorry to cause him pain. but a terrible spree there s sure to be when he come back again. 
[illustration]. 
[illustration]. 
the court of dinah shadd. 
what do the colonel s lady think nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you git to a man in the case they re like a row o pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. 
barrack room ballad. 
all day i have follow at the heel of a pursue army engage on one of the fine battle that ever camp of exercise behold. thirty thousand troop have by the wisdom of the government of india be turn loose over a few thousand square mile of country to practise in peace what they would never attempt in war. consequently cavalry charge unshaken infantry at the trot. infantry capture artillery by frontal attack deliver in line of quarter column and mount infantry skirmish up to the wheel of an armour train which carry nothing more deadly than a twenty five pounder armstrong two nordenfeldts and a few score volunteer all case in three eighth inch boiler plate. yet it be a very lifelike camp. operation do not cease at sundown. nobody know the country and nobody spar man or horse. there be unending cavalry scout and almost unending force work over break grind. the army of the south have finally pierce the centre of the army of the north and be pour through the gap hot foot to capture a city of strategic importance. it front extend fanwise the stick be represent by regiment string out along the line of route backwards to the divisional transport column and all the lumber that trail behind an army on the move. on it right the break leave of the army of the north be fly in mass chase by the southern horse and hammer by the southern gun till these have be push far beyond the limit of their last support. then the fly sit down to rest while the elate commandant of the pursue force telegraph that he hold all in check and observation. 
unluckily he do not observe that three mile to his right flank a fly column of northern horse with a detachment of gurkha and british troop have be push round a fast a the fail light allow to cut across the entire rear of the southern army to break a it be all the rib of the fan where they converge by strike at the transport reserve ammunition and artillery supply. their instruction be to go in avoid the few scout who might not have be draw off by the pursuit and create sufficient excitement to impress the southern army with the wisdom of guard their own flank and rear before they capture city. it be a pretty manoeuvre neatly carry out. 
speak for the second division of the southern army our first intimation of the attack be at twilight when the artillery be labour in deep sand most of the escort be try to help them out and the main body of the infantry have go on. a noah s ark of elephant camel and the mix menagerie of an indian transport train bubble and squeal behind the gun when there appear from nowhere in particular british infantry to the extent of three company who spring to the head of the gun horse and bring all to a standstill amid oath and cheer. 
how s that umpire. say the major command the attack and with one voice the driver and limber gunner answer hout. while the colonel of artillery sputter. 
all your scout be charge our main body say the major. your flank be unprotected for two mile. i think we ve break the back of this division. and listen there go the gurkha. 
a weak fire break from the rear guard more than a mile away and be answer by cheerful howling. the gurkha who should have swing clear of the second division have step on it tail in the dark but draw off hasten to reach the next line of attack which lay almost parallel to u five or six mile away. 
our column sway and surge irresolutely three battery the divisional ammunition reserve the baggage and a section of the hospital and bearer corp. the commandant ruefully promise to report himself cut up to the near umpire and commend his cavalry and all other cavalry to the special care of eblis toil on to resume touch with the rest of the division. 
we ll bivouac here to night say the major. i have a notion that the gurkha will get catch. they may want u to re form on. stand easy till the transport get away. 
a hand catch my beast s bridle and lead him out of the choke dust. a large hand deftly cant me out of the saddle. and two of the huge hand in the world receive me slide. pleasant be the lot of the special correspondent who fall into such hand a those of private mulvaney ortheris and learoyd. 
an that s all right say the irishman calmly. we think we d find you somewhere here by. be there anything av yours in the transport. orth ri ll fetch ut out. 
ortheris do fetch ut out from under the trunk of an elephant in the shape of a servant and an animal both lade with medical comfort. the little man s eye sparkle. 
if the brutil an licentious soldiery av these part get sight av the thruck say mulvaney make practise investigation they ll loot ev rything. they re bein feed on iron filin s an dog biscuit these day but glory s no compensation for a belly ache. praise be we re here to protect you sorr. beer sausage bread. soft an that s a cur osity. soup in a tin whisky by the smell av ut an fowl. mother av moses but ye take the field like a confectioner. ti scand lu. 
ere s a orficer say ortheris significantly. when the sergent s do lushin the privit may clean the pot. 
i bundle several thing into mulvaney s haver sack before the major s hand fell on my shoulder and he say tenderly requisition for the queen s service. wolseley be quite wrong about special correspondent. they be the soldier s best friend. come and take pot luck with u to night. 
and so it happen amid laughter and shouting that my well consider commissariat melt away to reappear late at the mess table which be a waterproof sheet spread on the grind. the fly column have take three day ration with it and there be few thing nasty than government ration especially when government be experiment with german toy. erbswurst tin beef of surpass tinniness compress vegetable and meat biscuit may be nourish but what thomas atkins need be bulk in his inside. the major assist by his brother officer purchase goat for the camp and so make the experiment of no effect. long before the fatigue party send to collect brushwood have return the men be settle down by their valise kettle and pot have appear from the surround country and be dangle over fire a the kid and the compress vegetable bubble together. there rise a cheerful clink of mess tin. outrageous demand for a little more stuffin with that there liver wing. and gust on gust of chaff a point a a bayonet and a delicate a a gun butt. 
the boy be in a good temper say the major. they ll be sing presently. well a night like this be enough to keep them happy. 
over our head burn the wonderful indian star which be not all prick in on one plane but preserve an orderly perspective draw the eye through the velvet darkness of the void up to the bar door of heaven itself. the earth be a gray shadow more unreal than the sky. we could hear her breathe lightly in the pause between the howl of the jackal the movement of the wind in the tamarisk and the fitful mutter of musketry fire league away to the leave. a native woman from some unseen hut begin to sing the mail train thunder past on it way to delhi and a roost crow caw drowsily. then there be a belt loosen silence about the fire and the even breathe of the crowd earth take up the story. 
the men full feed turn to tobacco and song their officer with them. the subaltern be happy who can win the approval of the musical critic in his regiment and be honour among the more intricate step dancer. by him a by him who play cricket cleverly thomas atkins will stand in time of need when he will let a good officer go on alone. the ruin tomb of forget mussulman saint hear the ballad of agra town_ the buffalo battery_ march to kabul_ the long long indian day_ the place where the punkah coolie died_ and that crash chorus which announce. 
youth s dare spirit manhood s fire firm hand and eagle eye must he acquire who would aspire to see the gray boar die. 
to day of all those jovial thief who appropriate my commissariat and lay and laugh round that waterproof sheet not one remain. they go to camp that be not of exercise and battle without empire. burmah the soudan and the frontier fever and fight take them in their time. 
i drift across to the men s fire in search of mulvaney whom i find strategically grease his foot by the blaze. there be nothing particularly lovely in the sight of a private thus engage after a long day s march but when you reflect on the exact proportion of the might majesty dominion and power of the british empire which stand on those foot you take an interest in the proceeding. 
there s a blister bad luck to ut on the heel say mulvaney. i can t touch ut. prick ut out little man. 
ortheris take out his housewife ease the trouble with a needle stab mulvaney in the calf with the same weapon and be swiftly kick into the fire. 
i ve bruk the best av my toe over you ye grinnin child av disruption say mulvaney sit cross legged and nurse his foot. then see me oh ut s you sorr. be welkim an take that maraudin scutt s place. jock hold him down on the cindhers for a bite. 
but ortheris escape and go elsewhere a i take possession of the hollow he have scrap for himself and line with his greatcoat. learoyd on the other side of the fire grin affably and in a minute fell fast asleep. 
there s the height av politeness for you say mulvaney light his pipe with a flame branch. but jock s eat half a box av your sardine at wan gulp an i think the tin too. what s the best wid you sorr an how do you happen to be on the losin side this day whin we capture you. 
the army of the south be win all along the line i say. 
then that line s the hangman s rope savin your presence. you ll learn to morrow how we rethreated to dhraw thim on before we make thim trouble an that s what a woman doe. by the same tokin we ll be attack before the dawnin an ut would be betther not to slip your boot. how do i know that. by the light av pure reason. here be three company av u ever so far inside av the enemy s flank an a crowd av roarin tarin squealin cavalry go on just to turn out the whole hornet s nest av them. av course the enemy will pursue by brigade like a not an thin we ll have to run for ut. mark my word. i be av the opinion av polonius whin he say don t fight wid ivry scutt for the pure joy av fightin but if you do knock the nose av him first and frequint. we ought to ha go on an help the gurkha. 
but what do you know about polonius. i demand. this be a new side of mulvaney s character. 
all that shakespeare iv write an a dale more that the gallery shout say the man of war carefully lace his boot. do i not tell you av silver s theatre in dublin whin i be young than i be now an a patron av the drama. ould silver wud never pay actor man or woman their just due an by consequince his comp ny be collapsible at the last minut. thin the bhoys wud clamour to take a part an oft a not ould silver make them pay for the fun. faith i ve see hamlut play wid a new black eye an the queen a full a a cornucopia. i remimber wanst hogin that list in the black tyrone an be shoot in south africa he sejuced ould silver into givin him hamlut s part instid av me that have a fine fancy for rhetoric in those day. av course i wint into the gallery an begin to fill the pit wid other people hat an i pass the time av day to hogin walkin through denmark like a hamstring mule wid a pall on his back. hamlut sez i there s a hole in your heel. pull up your shtockin s hamlut sez i. hamlut hamlut for the love av decincy dhrop that skull an pull up your shtockin s. the whole house begin to tell him that. he stop his soliloquishms mid between. my shtockin s may be comin down or they may not sez he screwin his eye into the gallery for well he know who i be. but afther this performince be over me an the ghost ll trample the tripe out av you terence wid your as s bray. an that s how i come to know about hamlut. eyah. those day those day. do you iv have onendin devilmint an nothin to pay for it in your life sorr. 
never without have to pay i say. 
that s thrue. ti mane whin you considher on ut. but ut s the same wid horse or fut. a headache if you dhrink an a belly ache if you eat too much an a heart ache to kape all down. faith the beast only get the colic an he s the lucky man. 
he drop his head and star into the fire finger his moustache the while. from the far side of the bivouac the voice of corbet nolan senior subaltern of b company uplift itself in an ancient and much appreciate song of sentiment the men moan melodiously behind him. 
the north wind blow coldly she droop from that hour my own little kathleen my sweet little kathleen kathleen my kathleen kathleen o moore. 
with forty five o s in the last word. even at that distance you might have cut the soft south irish accent with a shovel. 
for all we take we must pay but the price be cruel high murmur mulvaney when the chorus have cease. 
what s the trouble. i say gently for i know that he be a man of an inextinguishable sorrow. 
hear now say he. ye know what i be now. i know what i mint to be at the beginnin av my service. i ve tould you time an again an what i have not dinah shadd ha. an what be i. oh mary mother av hiven an ould dhrunken untrustable baste av a privit that ha see the reg ment change out from colonel to drummer boy not wanst or twice but score av time. ay score. an me not so near gettin promotion a in the first. an me livin on an kapin clear av clink not by my own good conduck but the kindness av some orf cer bhoy young enough to be son to me. do i not know ut. can i not tell whin i m pass over at p rade tho i m rockin full av liquor an ready to fall all in wan piece such a even a suckin child might see bekaze oh ti only ould mulvaney. an whin i m let off in ord ly room through some thrick of the tongue an a ready answer an the ould man s mercy be ut smilin i feel whin i fall away an go back to dinah shadd thryin to carry ut all off a a joke. not i. ti hell to me dumb hell through ut all. an next time whin the fit come i will be a bad again. good cause the reg ment ha to know me for the best soldier in ut. good cause have i to know mesilf for the bad man. i m only fit to tache the new draft what i ll niver learn myself. an i be sure a tho i hear ut that the minut wan av these pink eye recruities get away from my mind ye now an listen to this jim bhoy sure i be that the sergint houlds me up to him for a warnin. so i tache a they say at musketry instruction by direct and ricochet fire. lord be good to me for i have stud some throuble. 
lie down and go to sleep say i not be able to comfort or advise. you re the best man in the regiment and next to ortheris the big fool. lie down and wait till we re attack. what force will they turn out. gun think you. 
try that wid your lorrds an lady twistin an turnin the talk tho you mint ut well. ye cud say nothin to help me an yet ye niver know what cause i have to be what i be. 
begin at the begin and go on to the end i say royally. but rake up the fire a bite first. 
i pass ortheris s bayonet for a poker. 
that show how little we know what we do say mulvaney put it aside. fire take all the heart out av the steel an the next time maybe that our little man be fight for his life his bradawl ll break an so you ll ha kill him manin no more than to kape yourself warm. ti a recruity s thrick that. pas the clanin rod sorr. 
i snuggle down abash. and after an interval the voice of mulvaney begin. 
do i iv tell you how dinah shadd come to be wife av mine. 
i dissemble a burn anxiety that i have felt for some month ever since dinah shadd the strong the patient and the infinitely tender have of her own good love and free will wash a shirt for me move in a barren land where wash be not. 
i can t remember i say casually. be it before or after you make love to annie bragin and get no satisfaction. 
the story of annie bragin be write in another place. it be one of the many le respectable episode in mulvaney s chequer career. 
before before long before be that business av annie bragin an the corp ril s ghost. niver woman be the bad for me whin i have marry dinah. there s a time for all thing an i know how to kape all thing in place barrin the dhrink that kapes me in my place wid no hope av comin to be aught else. 
begin at the begin i insist. mr. mulvaney tell me that you marry her when you be quarter in krab bokhar barrack. 
an the same be a ce pit say mulvaney piously. she speak thrue do dinah. twas this way. talkin av that have ye iv fall in love sorr. 
i preserve the silence of the damn. mulvaney continue. 
thin i will assume that ye have not. i do. in the day av my youth a i have more than wanst tould you i be a man that fill the eye an delight the sowl av woman. niver man be hat a i have bin. niver man be love a i no not within half a day s march av ut. for the first five year av my service whin i be what i wud give my sowl to be now i tuk whatever be within my reach an digest ut an that s more than most men can say. dhrink i tuk an ut do me no harm. by the hollow av hiven i cud play wid four woman at wanst an kape them from findin out anythin about the other three an smile like a full blow marigold through ut all. dick coulhan av the battery we ll have down on u to night could drive his team no good than i mine an i hild the worse cattle. an so i live an so i be happy till afther that business wid annie bragin she that turn me off a cool a a meat safe an teach me where i stud in the mind av an honest woman. twas no sweet dose to swallow. 
afther that i sicken awhile an tuk think to my reg mental work. conceiting mesilf i wud study an be a sargint an a major gineral twinty minute afther that. but on top av my ambitiousness there be an empty place in my sowl an me own opinion av mesilf cud not fill ut. sez i to mesilf terence you re a great man an the best set up in the reg mint. go on an get promotion. sez mesilf to me what for. sez i to mesilf for the glory av ut. sez mesilf to me will that fill these two strong arrums av yours terence. go to the devil sez i to mesilf. go to the marry line sez mesilf to me. ti the same thing sez i to mesilf. av you re the same man ut be say mesilf to me. an wid that i considhered on ut a long while. do you iv feel that way sorr. 
i snore gently know that if mulvaney be uninterrupted he would go on. the clamour from the bivouac fire beat up to the star a the rival singer of the company be pit against each other. 
so i felt that way an a bad time ut be. wanst bein a fool i wint into the marry line more for the sake av spakin to our ould colour sergint shadd than for any thruck wid woman folk. i be a corp ril then rejuced afterwards but a corp ril then. i ve get a photograft av mesilf to prove ut. you ll take a cup av tay wid u. sez shadd. i will that i sez tho tay be not my divarsion. 
twud be good for you if ut be sez ould mother shadd an she have ought to know for shadd in the ind av his service dhrank bung full each night. 
[illustration. thin whin the kettle be to be fill dinah come in my dinah. p. ]. 
wid that i tuk off my glove there be pipe clay in thim so that they stud alone an pull up my chair lookin round at the china ornament an bit av thing in the shadds quarter. they be thing that belong to a man an no camp kit here to day and dishipated next. you re comfortable in this place sergint sez i. ti the wife that do ut boy sez he pointin the stem av his pipe to ould mother shadd an she smack the top av his bald head apon the compliment. that mane you want money sez she. 
an thin an thin whin the kettle be to be fill dinah come in my dinah her sleeve rowled up to the elbow an her hair in a winkin glory over her forehead the big blue eye beneath twinklin like star on a frosty night an the tread av her two foot light than waste paper from the colonel s basket in ord ly room whin ut s empty. bein but a shlip av a girl she go pink at seein me an i twist me moustache an look at a picture forninst the wall. niver show a woman that ye care the snap av a finger for her an begad she ll come bleatin to your boot heel. 
i suppose that s why you follow annie bragin till everybody in the marry quarter laugh at you say i remember that unhallow woo and cast off the disguise of drowsiness. 
i m layin down the gin ral theory av the attack say mulvaney drive his boot into the die fire. if you read the soldier s pocket book_ which niver any soldier read you ll see that there be exception. whin dinah be out av the door. an twas a tho the sunlight have shut too. mother av hiven sergint sez i but be that your daughter. i ve believe that way these eighteen year sez ould shadd his eye twinklin. but mr. shadd ha her own opinion like iv ry woman. ti wid yours this time for a mericle sez mother shadd. thin why in the name av fortune do i niver see her before. sez i. bekaze you ve be thrapesin round wid the marry woman these three year past. she be a bite av a child till last year an she shoot up wid the spring sez ould mother shadd. i ll thrapese no more sez i. d you mane that. sez ould mother shadd lookin at me side way like a hen look at a hawk whin the chicken be runnin free. try me an tell sez i. wid that i pull on my glove dhrank off the tay an go out av the house a stiff a at gin ral p rade for well i know that dinah shadd s eye be in the small av my back out av the scullery window. faith. that be the only time i mourn i be not a cav l ry man for the pride av the spur to jingle. 
i wint out to think an i do a powerful lot av thinkin but ut all come round to that shlip av a girl in the dot blue dhress wid the blue eye an the sparkil in them. thin i keep off canteen an i keep to the marry quarthers or near by on the chanst av meetin dinah. do i meet her. oh my time past do i not. wid a lump in my throat a big a my valise an my heart goin like a farrier s forge on a saturday morning. twas good day to ye miss dinah an good day t you corp ril for a week or two and divil a bite further could i get bekaze av the respect i have to that girl that i cud ha break betune finger an thumb. 
here i giggle a i recall the gigantic figure of dinah shadd when she hand me my shirt. 
ye may laugh grunt mulvaney. but i m speakin the trut an ti you that be in fault. dinah be a girl that wud ha take the imperiousness out av the duchess av clonmel in those day. flower hand foot av shoe air an the eye av the livin mornin she have that be my wife to day ould dinah and niver aught else than dinah shadd to me. 
twas after three week standin off an on an niver makin headway excipt through the eye that a little drummer boy grin in me face whin i have admonish him wid the buckle av my belt for riotin all over the place. an i m not the only wan that doesn t kape to barricks sez he. i tuk him by the scruff av his neck my heart be hang on a hair thrigger those day you will onderstand an out wid ut sez i or i ll lave no bone av you unbreakable. speak to dempsey sez he howlin. dempsey which. sez i ye unwashed limb av satan. av the bob tail dhragoons sez he. he s see her home from her aunt s house in the civil line four time this fortnight. child. sez i dhroppin him you re tongue s strong than your body. go to your quarter. i m sorry i dhressed you down. 
at that i go four way to wanst huntin dempsey. i be mad to think that wid all my air among woman i shud ha be chat by a basin face fool av a cav l ry man not fit to trust on a trunk. presintly i find him in our line the bobtail be quarter next u an a tallowy topheavy son av a she mule he be wid his big brass spur an his plastron on his epigastrons an all. but he niver flinch a hair. 
a word wid you dempsey sez i. you ve walk wid dinah shadd four time this fortnight go. 
what s that to you. sez he. i ll walk forty time more an forty on top av that ye shovel futted clod breakin infantry lance corp ril. 
before i cud gyard he have his gloved fist home on my cheek an down i go full sprawl. will that content you. sez he blowin on his knuckle for all the world like a scot grey orf cer. content. sez i. for your own sake man take off your spur peel your jackut an onglove. ti the beginnin av the overture. stand up. 
[illustration. my collar bone s bruk sez he. p. ]. 
he stud all he know but he niver peel his jacket an his shoulder have no fair play. i be fightin for dinah shadd an that cut on my cheek. what hope have he forninst me. stand up sez i time an again whin he be beginnin to quarter the grind an gyard high an go large. this isn t ridin school i sez. o man stand up an let me get in at ye. but whin i saw he wud be runnin about i grup his shtock in my leave an his waist belt in my right an swing him clear to my right front head undher he hammerin my nose till the wind be knock out av him on the bare grind. stand up sez i or i ll kick your head into your chest. and i wud ha do ut too so ragin mad i be. 
my collar bone s bruk sez he. help me back to line. i ll walk wid her no more. so i help him back. 
and be his collar bone break. i ask for i fancy that only learoyd could neatly accomplish that terrible throw. 
he pitch on his leave shoulder point. ut be. next day the news be in both barricks an whin i meet dinah shadd wid a cheek on me like all the reg mintal tailor s sample there be no good mornin corp ril or aught else. an what have i do miss shadd sez i very bould plantin mesilf forninst her that ye should not pas the time of day. 
ye ve half kill rough rider dempsey sez she her dear blue eye fillin up. 
maybe sez i. be he a friend av yours that saw ye home four time in the fortnight. 
yes sez she but her mouth be down at the corner. an an what s that to you. she sez. 
ask dempsey sez i purtendin to go away. 
do you fight for me then ye silly man. she sez tho she know ut all along. 
who else. sez i an i tuk wan pace to the front. 
i wasn t worth ut sez she fingerin in her apron. 
that s for me to say sez i. shall i say ut. 
yes sez she in a saint s whisper an at that i explain mesilf. and she tould me what ivry man that be a man an many that be a woman hear wanst in his life. 
but what make ye cry at startin dinah darlin. sez i. 
your your bloody cheek sez she duckin her little head down on my sash. i be on duty for the day. an whimperin like a sorrowful angil. 
now a man cud take that two way. i tuk ut a please me best an my first kiss wid ut. mother av innocence. but i kiss her on the tip av the nose an undher the eye. an a girl that let a kiss come tumbleways like that ha never be kiss before. take note av that sorr. thin we wint hand in hand to ould mother shadd like two little childher an she say twas no bad thing an ould shadd nod behind his pipe an dinah run away to her own room. that day i throd on rollin cloud. all earth be too small to hould me. begad i cud ha hike the sun out av the sky for a live coal to my pipe so magnificent i be. but i tuk recruities at squad drill instid an begin wid general battalion advance whin i shud ha be balance steppin them. eyah. that day. that day. 
a very long pause. well. say i. 
twas all wrong say mulvaney with an enormous sigh. an i know that ev ry bite av ut be my own foolishness. that night i tuk maybe the half av three pint not enough to turn the hair of a man in his natural sens. but i be more than half drink wid pure joy an that canteen beer be so much whisky to me. i can t tell how it come about but bekaze i have no think for any wan except dinah bekaze i hadn t slip her little white arm from my neck five minuts bekaze the breath of her kiss be not go from my mouth i must go through the marry line on my way to quarter an i must stay talkin to a red head mullingar heifer av a girl judy sheehy that be daughter to mother sheehy the wife of nick sheehy the canteen sergint the black curse av shielygh be on the whole brood that be above groun this day. 
an what be ye houldin your head that high for corp ril. sez judy. come in an thry a cup av tay she sez standin in the doorway. bein an ontrustable fool an thinkin av anything but tay i wint. 
mother s at canteen sez judy smoothin the hair av hers that be like red snake an lookin at me corner way out av her green cat eye. ye will not mind corp ril. 
i can endure sez i. ould mother sheehy bein no divarsion av mine nor her daughter too. judy fetch the tea thing an put thim on the table leanin over me very close to get thim square. i dhrew back thinkin av dinah. 
be ut afraid you be av a girl alone. sez judy. 
no sez i. why should i be. 
that rest wid the girl sez judy dhrawin her chair next to mine. 
thin there let ut rest sez i. an thinkin i d be a trifle onpolite i sez the tay s not quite sweet enough for my taste. put your little finger in the cup judy. twill make ut necthar. 
what s necthar. sez she. 
somethin very sweet sez i. an for the sinful life av me i cud not help lookin at her out av the corner av my eye a i be use to look at a woman. 
go on wid ye cor pril sez she. you re a flirrt. 
on me sowl i m not sez i. 
then you re a cruel handsome man an that s bad sez she heavin big sigh an lookin cross way. 
you know your own mind sez i. 
twud be good for me if i do not she sez. 
there s a dale to be say on both side av that sez i unthinkin. 
say your own part av ut then terence darlin sez she. for begad i m thinkin i ve say too much or too little for an honest girl an wid that she put her arm round my neck an kiss me. 
there s no more to be say afther that sez i kissin her back again oh the mane scutt that i be my head ringin wid dinah shadd. how doe ut come about sorr that when a man ha put the comether on wan woman he s sure bind to put it on another. ti the same thing at musketry. wan day ivry shoot go wide or into the bank an the next lay high lay low sight or snap ye can t get off the bull s eye for ten shot runnin. 
that only happen to a man who ha have a good deal of experience. he doe it without think i reply. 
thankin you for the complimint sorr ut may be so. but i m doubtful whether you mint ut for a complimint. hear now. i sit there wid judy on my knee tellin me all manner av nonsinse an only sayin yes an no when i d much good ha keep tongue betune teeth. an that be not an hour afther i have leave dinah. what i be thinkin av i cannot say. presintly quiet a a cat ould mother sheehy come in velvet dhrunk. she have her daughter s red hair but twas bald in patch an i could see in her wicked ould face clear a lightnin what judy wud be twenty year to come. i be for jumpin up but judy niver move. 
terence ha promust mother sez she an the could sweat bruk out all over me. ould mother sheehy sit down of a heap an begin playin wid the cup. thin you re a well match pair she sez very thick. for he s the big rogue that iv spoil the queen s shoe leather an. 
i m off judy sez i. ye should not talk nonsinse to your mother. get her to bed girl. 
nonsinse. sez the ould woman prickin up her ear like a cat an grippin the table edge. twill be the most nonsinsical nonsinse for you ye grinnin badger if nonsinse ti. git clear you. i m goin to bed. 
i run out into the dhark my head in a stew an my heart sick but i have sinse enough to see that i d bring ut all on mysilf. it s this to pas the time av day to a panjandhrum av hell cat sez i. what i ve say an what i ve not say do not matther. judy an her dam will hould me for a promust man an dinah will give me the go an i desarve ut. i will go an get dhrunk sez i an forget about ut for ti plain i m not a marrin man. 
on my way to canteen i run against lascelles colour sergeant that be av e comp ny a hard hard man wid a torment av a wife. you ve the head av a drown man on your shoulder sez he. an you re goin where you ll get a bad wan. come back sez he. let me go sez i. i ve throw my luck over the wall wid my own hand. then that s not the way to get ut back again sez he. have out wid your throuble you fool bhoy. an i tould him how the matther be. 
he suck in his low lip. you ve be thrapped sez he. ju sheehy wud be the betther for a man s name to hers a soon a can. an ye think ye d put the comether on her that s the natural vanity of the baste. terence you re a big bear fool but you re not bad enough to marry into that comp ny. if you say anythin an for all your protestation i m sure ye do or do not which be bad eat ut all lie like the father of all lie but come out av ut free av judy. do i not know what ut be to marry a woman that be the very spit an image av judy whin she be young. i m gettin old an i ve larnt patience but you terence you d raise hand on judy an kill her in a year. never mind if dinah give you the go you ve desarved ut. never mind if the whole reg mint laugh you all day. get shut av judy an her mother. they can t dhrag you to church but if they do they ll dhrag you to hell. go back to your quarter and lie down sez he. thin over his shoulder you must ha do with thim. 
next day i wint to see dinah but there be no tucker in me a i walk. i know the throuble wud come soon enough widout any handlin av mine an i dread ut sore. 
i hear judy callin me but i hild straight on to the shadds quarthers an dinah wud ha kiss me but i put her back. 
whin all s say darlin sez i you can give ut me if ye will tho i misdoubt twill be so easy to come by then. 
i have scarce begin to put the explanation into shape before judy an her mother come to the door. i think there be a veranda but i m forgettin. 
will ye not step in. sez dinah pretty and polite though the shadds have no dealin s with the sheehys. old mother shadd look up quick an she be the fust to see the throuble. for dinah be her daughter. 
i m press for time to day sez judy a bould a brass. an i ve only come for terence my promust man. ti strange to find him here the day afther the day. 
dinah look at me a though i have hit her an i answer straight. 
there be some nonsinse last night at the sheehys quarthers an judy s carryin on the joke darlin sez i. 
at the sheehys quarthers. sez dinah very slow an judy cut in wid. he be there from nine till ten dinah shadd an the betther half av that time i be sittin on his knee dinah shadd. ye may look an ye may look an ye may look me up an down but ye win t look away that terence be my promust man. terence darlin ti time for u to be comin home. 
dinah shadd niver say word to judy. ye leave me at half past eight she sez to me an i niver think that ye d leave me for judy promise or no promise. go back wid her you that have to be fetch by a girl. i m do with you sez she and she run into her own room her mother followin. so i be alone wid those two woman and at liberty to spake my sentiment. 
judy sheehy sez i if you make a fool av me betune the light you shall not do ut in the day. i niver promise you word or line. 
you lie sez ould mother sheehy an may ut choke you where you stand. she be far go in dhrink. 
an tho ut choke me where i stud i d not change sez i. go home judy. i take shame for a decent girl like you dhraggin your mother out bareheaded on this errand. hear now and have ut for an answer. i give my word to dinah shadd yesterday an more blame to me i be wid you last night talkin nonsinse but nothin more. you ve choose to thry to hould me on ut. i will not be hold thereby for anythin in the world. be that enough. 
judy wint pink all over. an i wish you joy av the perjury sez she duckin a curtsey. you ve lose a woman that would ha wear her hand to the bone for your pleasure. an deed terence ye be not thrapped. lascelles must ha speak plain to her. i be such a dinah be deed i be. ye ve lose a fool av a girl that ll niver look at you again and ye ve lose what ye niver have your common honesty. if you manage your men a you manage your love makin small wondher they call you the bad corp ril in the comp ny. come away mother sez she. 
but divil a fut would the ould woman budge. d you hould by that. sez she peerin up under her thick gray eyebrow. 
ay an wud sez i tho dinah give me the go twinty time. i ll have no thruck with you or yours sez i. take your child away ye shameless woman. 
an be i shameless. sez she bringin her hand up above her head. thin what be you ye lyin schamin weak kneed dhirty souled son av a sutler. be i shameless. who put the open shame on me an my child that we shud go beggin through the line in the broad daylight for the break word of a man. double portion of my shame be on you terence mulvaney that think yourself so strong. by mary and the saint by blood and water an by ivry sorrow that come into the world since the beginnin the black blight fall on you and yours so that you may niver be free from pain for another when ut s not your own. may your heart bleed in your breast drop by drop wid all your friend laughin at the bleedin. strong you think yourself. may your strength be a curse to you to dhrive you into the divil s hand against your own will. clear eye you be. may your eye see clear evry step av the dark path you take till the hot cindhers av hell put thim out. may the ragin dry thirst in my own ould bone go to you that you shall niver pas bottle full nor glass empty. god preserve the light av your onderstandin to you my jewel av a bhoy that ye may niver forget what you mint to be an do whin you re wallowin in the muck. may ye see the betther and follow the bad a long a there s breath in your body. an may ye die quick in a strange land watchin your death before ut take you an onable to stir hand or foot. 
i hear a scufflin in the room behind and thin dinah shadd s hand dhropped into mine like a rise leaf into a muddy road. 
the half av that i ll take sez she an more too if i can. go home ye silly talkin woman go home an confess. 
come away. come away. sez judy pullin her mother by the shawl. twas none av terence s fault. for the love av mary stop the talkin. 
an you. say ould mother sheehy spinnin round forninst dinah. will ye take the half av that man s load. stand off from him dinah shadd before he take you down too you that look to be a quarther master sergeant s wife in five year. you look too high child. you shall wash for the quarther master sergeant whin he plases to give you the job out av charity. but a privit s wife you shall be to the end an evry sorrow of a privit s wife you shall know and niver a joy but wan that shall go from you like the run tide from a rock. the pain av bearin you shall know but niver the pleasure av give the breast. an you shall put away a man child into the common grind wid niver a priest to say a prayer over him an on that man child ye shall think ivry day av your life. think long dinah shadd for you ll niver have another tho you pray till your knee be bleedin. the mother av childer shall mock you behind your back when you re wring over the wash tub. you shall know what ut be to help a dhrunken husband home an see him go to the gyard room. will that plase you dinah shadd that win t be see talkin to my daughter. you shall talk to bad than judy before all s over. the sergints wife shall look down on you contemptuous daughter av a sergint an you shall cover ut all up wid a smile face whin your heart s burstin. stand off av him dinah shadd for i ve put the black curse of shielygh upon him an his own mouth shall make ut good. 
[illustration. the half av that i ll take sez she. p. ]. 
she pitch forward on her head an begin foamin at the mouth. dinah shadd run out wid water an judy dhragged the ould woman into the veranda till she sit up. 
i m old an forlore she sez thremblin an cryin and ti like i say a dale more than i mane. 
when you re able to walk go say ould mother shadd. this house ha no place for the like av you that have curse my daughter. 
eyah. say the ould woman. hard word break no bone an dinah shadd ll kape the love av her husband till my bone be green corn. judy darlin i misremember what i come here for. can you lend u the bottom av a taycup av tay mr. shadd. 
but judy dhragged her off cryin a tho her heart wud break. an dinah shadd an i in ten minute we have forget ut all. 
then why do you remember it now. say i. 
be ut like i d forget. ivry word that wicked ould woman speak fell thrue in my life aftherwards an i cud ha stud ut all stud ut all excipt when my little shadd be bear. that be on the line av march three month afther the regiment be take with cholera. we be betune umballa an kalka thin an i be on picket. whin i come off duty the woman show me the child an ut turn on ut side an die a i look. we bury him by the road an father victor be a day s march behind wid the heavy baggage so the comp ny captain read a prayer. an since then i ve be a childless man an all else that ould mother sheehy put upon me an dinah shadd. what do you think sorr. 
i think a good deal but it seem good then to reach out for mulvaney s hand. the demonstration nearly cost me the use of three finger. whatever he know of his weakness mulvaney be entirely ignorant of his strength. 
but what do you think. he repeat a i be straighten out the crush finger. 
my reply be drown in yell and outcry from the next fire where ten men be shout for orth ri privit orth ri mistah or ther ri. deah boy cap n orth ri field marshal orth ri stanley you pen north o pop come ere to your own comp ny. and the cockney who have be delight another audience with recondite and rabelaisian yarn be shoot down among his admirer by the major force. 
you ve crumple my dress shirt orrid say he an i shan t sing no more to this ere bloomin drawin room. 
learoyd rouse by the confusion uncoil himself creep behind ortheris and sling him aloft on his shoulder. 
sing ye bloomin hummin bird. say he and ortheris beat time on learoyd s skull deliver himself in the raucous voice of the ratcliffe highway of this song. 
my girl she give me the go onst when i be a london lad an i go on the drink for a fortnight an then i go to the bad. the queen she give me a shillin to fight for er over the sea. but guv ment build me a fever trap an injia give me disease. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m here. 
i fire a shoot at a afghan the beggar e fire again an i lay on my bed with a ole in my ed an miss the next campaign. i up with my gun at a burman who carry a bloomin dah_ but the cartridge stick and the bay nit bruk an all i get be the scar. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you aim at a afghan when you stand on the sky line clear. an don t you go for a burman if none o your friend be near. 
i serve my time for a corp ral an wet my stripe with pop for i go on the bend with a intimate friend an finish the night in the shop. 
i serve my time for a sergeant. the colonel e sez no. the most you ll see be a full c. b. [ ] an. very next night twas so. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you go for a corp ral unless your ed be clear. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
i ve taste the luck o the army in barrack an camp an clink an i lose my tip through the bloomin trip along o the woman an drink. i m down at the heel o my service an when i be lay on the shelf my very wust friend from begin to end by the blood of a mouse be myself. 
chorus. 
ho. don t you eed what a girl say an don t you go for the beer. but i be an as when i be at grass an that be why i m ere. 
ay listen to our little man now singin an shoutin a tho trouble have niver touch him. d you remember when he go mad with the home sickness. say mulvaney recall a never to be forget season when ortheris wad through the deep water of affliction and behave abominably. but he s talkin bitter truth though. eyah. 
my very bad frind from beginnin to ind by the blood av a mouse be mesilf. 
when i wake i saw mulvaney the night dew gemming his moustache lean on his rifle at picket lonely a prometheus on his rock with i know not what vulture tear his liver. 
[illustration]. 
footnote. 
[ ] confine to barrack. 
[illustration]. 
the incarnation of krishna mulvaney. 
wohl auf my bully cavalier we ride to church to day the man that hasn t get a horse must steal one straight away. be reverent men remember this be a gottes haus du conrad cut along d aisle and schenck d whisky au. 
han breitmann s ride to church. 
once upon a time very far from england there live three men who love each other so greatly that neither man nor woman could come between them. they be in no sense refine nor to be admit to the out door mat of decent folk because they happen to be private soldier in her majesty s army. and private soldier of our service have small time for self culture. their duty be to keep themselves and their accoutrement specklessly clean to refrain from get drink more often than be necessary to obey their superior and to pray for a war. all these thing my friend accomplish. and of their own motion throw in some fight work for which the army regulation do not call. their fate send them to serve in india which be not a golden country though poet have sing otherwise. there men die with great swiftness and those who live suffer many and curious thing. i do not think that my friend concern themselves much with the social or political aspect of the east. they attend a not unimportant war on the northern frontier another one on our western boundary and a third in upper burma. then their regiment sit still to recruit and the boundless monotony of cantonment life be their portion. they be drill morning and even on the same dusty parade grind. they wander up and down the same stretch of dusty white road attend the same church and the same grog shop and sleep in the same lime wash barn of a barrack for two long year. there be mulvaney the father in the craft who have serve with various regiment from bermuda to halifax old in war scar reckless resourceful and in his pious hour an unequalled soldier. to him turn for help and comfort six and a half foot of slow move heavy foot yorkshireman bear on the wold breed in the dale and educate chiefly among the carrier cart at the back of york railway station. his name be learoyd and his chief virtue an unmitigated patience which help him to win fight. how ortheris a fox terrier of a cockney ever come to be one of the trio be a mystery which even to day i cannot explain. there be always three av u mulvaney use to say. an by the grace av god so long a our service last three av u they ll always be. ti betther so. 
they desire no companionship beyond their own and it be evil for any man of the regiment who attempt dispute with them. physical argument be out of the question a regard mulvaney and the yorkshireman. and assault on ortheris mean a combine attack from these twain a business which no five men be anxious to have on their hand. therefore they flourish share their drink their tobacco and their money. good luck and evil. battle and the chance of death. life and the chance of happiness from calicut in southern to peshawur in northern india. 
through no merit of my own it be my good fortune to be in a measure admit to their friendship frankly by mulvaney from the begin sullenly and with reluctance by learoyd and suspiciously by ortheris who hold to it that no man not in the army could fraternise with a red coat. like to like say he. i m a bloomin sodger he s a bloomin civilian. taint natural that s all. 
but that be not all. they thaw progressively and in the thaw tell me more of their life and adventure than i be ever likely to write. 
omit all else this tale begin with the lamentable thirst that be at the begin of first cause. never be such a thirst mulvaney tell me so. they kick against their compulsory virtue but the attempt be only successful in the case of ortheris. he whose talent be many go forth into the highway and steal a dog from a civilian videlicet_ some one he know not who not in the army. now that civilian be but newly connect by marriage with the colonel of the regiment and outcry be make from quarter least anticipate by ortheris and in the end he be force l a bad thing should happen to dispose at ridiculously unremunerative rate of a promise a small terrier a ever grace one end of a lead string. the purchase money be barely sufficient for one small outbreak which lead him to the guard room. he escape however with nothing bad than a severe reprimand and a few hour of punishment drill. not for nothing have he acquire the reputation of be the best soldier of his inch in the regiment. mulvaney have teach personal cleanliness and efficiency a the first article of his companion creed. a dhirty man he be use to say in the speech of his kind go to clink for a weakness in the knee an be coort martialled for a pair av sock missin. but a clane man such a be an ornament to his service a man whose button be gold whose coat be wax upon him an whose coutrements be widout a speck that man may spakin in reason do fwhat he like an dhrink from day to divil. that s the pride av bein dacint. 
we sit together upon a day in the shade of a ravine far from the barrack where a watercourse use to run in rainy weather. behind u be the scrub jungle in which jackal peacock the gray wolf of the north western province and occasionally a tiger estrayed from central india be suppose to dwell. in front lay the cantonment glare white under a glare sun. and on either side run the broad road that lead to delhi. 
it be the scrub that suggest to my mind the wisdom of mulvaney take a day s leave and go upon a shoot tour. the peacock be a holy bird throughout india and he who slay one be in danger of be mob by the near villager. but on the last occasion that mulvaney have go forth he have contrive without in the least offend local religious susceptibility to return with six beautiful peacock skin which he sell to profit. it seem just possible then. 
but fwhat manner av use be ut to me goin out widout a dhrink. the grind s powdher dhry underfoot an ut get unto the throat fit to kill wail mulvaney look at me reproachfully. an a peacock be not a bird you can catch the tail av onless ye run. can a man run on wather an jungle wather too. 
ortheris have consider the question in all it bearing. he speak chew his pipe stem meditatively the while. 
go forth return in glory to clusium s royal ome. an round these bloomin temple ang the bloomin shield o rome. 
you good go. you ain t like to shoot yourself not while there s a chanst of liquor. me an learoyd ll stay at ome an keep shop case o anythin turnin up. but you go out with a gas pipe gun an ketch the little peacock or somethin. you kin get one day s leave easy a winkin. go along an get it an get peacock or somethin. 
jock say mulvaney turn to learoyd who be half asleep under the shadow of the bank. he rouse slowly. 
sitha mulvaney go say he. 
and mulvaney go. curse his ally with irish fluency and barrack room point. 
take note say he when he have win his holiday and appear dress in his rough clothe with the only other regimental fowl piece in his hand. take note jock an you orth ri i be goin in the face av my own will all for to please you. i misdoubt anythin will come av permiscuous huntin afther peacock in a desolit lan. an i know that i will lie down an die wid thirrrst. me catch peacock for you ye lazy scutts an be sacrifice by the peasanthry ugh. 
he wave a huge paw and go away. 
at twilight long before the appoint hour he return empty hand much begrime with dirt. 
peacock. query ortheris from the safe rest of a barrack room table whereon he be smoke cross legged learoyd fast asleep on a bench. 
jock say mulvaney without answer a he stir up the sleeper. jock can ye fight. will ye fight. 
very slowly the mean of the word communicate itself to the half rouse man. he understand and again what might these thing mean. mulvaney be shake him savagely. meantime the men in the room howl with delight. there be war in the confederacy at last war and the break of bond. 
barrack room etiquette be stringent. on the direct challenge must follow the direct reply. this be more bind than the tie of try friendship. once again mulvaney repeat the question. learoyd answer by the only mean in his power and so swiftly that the irishman have barely time to avoid the blow. the laughter around increase. learoyd look bewilderedly at his friend himself a greatly bewilder. ortheris drop from the table because his world be fall. 
come outside say mulvaney and a the occupant of the barrack room prepare joyously to follow he turn and say furiously there will be no fight this night onless any wan av you be wishful to assist. the man that doe follow on. 
no man move. the three pass out into the moonlight learoyd fumble with the button of his coat. the parade grind be desert except for the scurry jackal. mulvaney s impetuous rush carry his companion far into the open ere learoyd attempt to turn round and continue the discussion. 
be still now. twas my fault for beginnin thing in the middle av an end jock. i should ha comminst wid an explanation. but jock dear on your sowl be ye fit think you for the fine fight that iv be betther than fightin me. considher before ye answer. 
more than ever puzzle learoyd turn round two or three time felt an arm kick tentatively and answer ah m fit. he be accustom to fight blindly at the bid of the superior mind. 
they sit them down the men look on from afar and mulvaney untangle himself in mighty word. 
followin your fool scheme i wint out into the thrackless desert beyond the barricks. an there i meet a pious hindu dhriving a bullock kyart. i tuk ut for grant he wud be delight for to convoy me a piece an i jump in. 
you long lazy black haired swine drawl ortheris who would have do the same thing under similar circumstance. 
twas the height av policy. that naygur man dhruv mile an mile a far a the new railway line they re buildin now back av the tavi river. ti a kyart for dhirt only say he now an again timoreously to get me out av ut. dhirt i be sez i an the dhryest that you ever kyarted. dhrive on me son an glory be wid you. at that i wint to slape an take no heed till he pull up on the embankmint av the line where the cooly be pilin mud. there be a matther av two thousand cooly on that line you remimber that. prisintly a bell ring an they throops off to a big pay shed. where s the white man in charge. sez i to my kyart dhriver. in the shed sez he engage on a riffle. a fwhat. sez i. riffle sez he. you take ticket. he take money. you get nothin. oho. sez i that s fwhat the shuperior an cultivate man call a raffle me misbeguided child av darkness an sin. lead on to that raffle though fwhat the mischief ti doin so far away from ut home which be the charity bazar at christmas an the colonel s wife grinnin behind the tea table be more than i know. wid that i wint to the shed an find twas pay day among the cooly. their wage be on a table forninst a big fine red buck av a man sivun fut high four fut wide an three fut thick wid a fist on him like a corn sack. he be payin the cooly fair an easy but he wud ask each man if he wud raffle that month an each man sez yes av course. thin he wud deduct from their wage accordin. whin all be pay he fill an ould cigar box full av gun wad an scatthered ut among the cooly. they do not take much joy av that performince an small wondher. a man close to me pick up a black gunwad an sing out i have ut. good may ut do you sez i. the coolie wint forward to this big fine red man who throw a cloth off av the most sumpshus jooled enamel an variously bedivilled sedan chair i iv saw. 
sedan chair. put your ead in a bag. that be a palanquin. don t yer know a palanquin when you see it. say ortheris with great scorn. 
[illustration. out of this sez he i m in charge av this section av construction. i m in charge av mesilf sez i an it s like i will stay a while. p. ]. 
i chuse to call ut sedan chair an chair ut shall be little man continue the irishman. twas a most amazin chair all line wid pink silk an fit wid red silk curtain. here ut be sez the red man. here ut be sez the coolie an he grin weakly way. be ut any use to you. sez the red man. no sez the coolie. i d like to make a presint av ut to you. i be graciously please to accept that same sez the red man. an at that all the cooly cry aloud in fwhat be mint for cheerful note an wint back to their diggin lavin me alone in the shed. the red man saw me an his face grow blue on his big fat neck. fwhat d you want here. sez he. standin room an no more sez i onless it may be fwhat ye niver have an that s manner ye rafflin ruffian for i be not goin to have the service throd upon. out of this sez he. i m in charge av this section av construction. i m in charge av mesilf sez i an it s like i will stay a while. d ye raffle much in these part. fwhat s that to you. sez he. nothin sez i but a great dale to you for begad i m thinkin you get the full half av your revenue from that sedan chair. be ut always raffle so. i sez an wid that i wint to a coolie to ask question. bhoys that man s name be dearsley an he s be rafflin that ould sedan chair monthly this matther av nine month. ivry coolie on the section take a ticket or he give em the go wanst a month on pay day. ivry coolie that win ut give ut back to him for ti too big to carry away an he d sack the man that thried to sell ut. that dearsley ha be makin the rowlin wealth av roshus by nefarious rafflin. think av the burnin shame to the sufferin coolie man that the army in injia be bind to protect an nourish in their bosom. two thousand cooly defraud wanst a month. 
dom t cooly. ha t get t cheer man. say learoyd. 
hould on. havin onearthed this amazin an stupenjus fraud commit by the man dearsley i hild a council av war. he thryin all the time to sejuce me into a fight wid opprobrious language. that sedan chair niver belong by right to any foreman av cooly. ti a king s chair or a quane s. there s gold on ut an silk an all manner av trapesemints. bhoys ti not for me to countenance any sort av wrong doin me bein the ould man but anyway he ha have ut nine month an he dare not make throuble av ut be take from him. five mile away or ut may be six. 
there be a long pause and the jackal howl merrily. learoyd bar one arm and contemplate it in the moonlight. then he nod partly to himself and partly to his friend. ortheris wriggle with suppress emotion. 
i think ye wud see the reasonableness av ut say mulvaney. i make bould to say a much to the man before. he be for a direct front attack fut horse an gun an all for nothin seem that i have no thransport to convey the machine away. i will not argue wid you sez i this day but subsequintly mister dearsley me rafflin jool we talk ut out lengthways. ti no good policy to swindle the naygur av his hard earn emolumints an by presint informashin twas the kyart man that tould me ye ve be perpethrating that same for nine month. but i m a just man sez i an overlookin the presumpshin that yondher settee wid the gild top be not come by honust at that he turn sky green so i know thing be more thrue than tellable not come by honust i m willin to compound the felony for this month s winnin s. 
ah. ho. from learoyd and ortheris. 
that man dearsley s rushin on his fate continue mulvaney solemnly wag his head. all hell have no name bad enough for me that tide. faith he call me a robber. me. that be savin him from continuin in his evil way widout a remonstrince an to a man av conscience a remonstrince may change the chune av his life. ti not for me to argue sez i fwhatever ye be mister dearsley but by my hand i ll take away the temptation for you that lie in that sedan chair. you will have to fight me for ut sez he for well i know you will never dare make report to any one. fight i will sez i but not this day for i m rejuced for want av nourishment. ye re an ould bould hand sez he sizin up me an down. an a jool of a fight we will have. eat now an dhrink an go your way. wid that he give me some hump an whisky good whisky an we talk av this an that the while. it go hard on me now sez i wipin my mouth to confiscate that piece of furniture but justice be justice. ye ve not get ut yet sez he. there s the fight between. there be sez i an a good fight. ye shall have the pick av the best quality in my regimint for the dinner you have give this day. thin i come hot foot to you two. hould your tongue the both. ti this way. to morrow we three will go there an he shall have his pick betune me an jock. jock s a deceivin fighter for he be all fat to the eye an he move slow. now i m all beef to the look an i move quick. by my reckonin the dearsley man win t take me. so me an orth ri ll see fair play. jock i tell you twill be big fightin whip wid the cream above the jam. afther the business twill take a good three av u jock ll be very hurt to haul away that sedan chair. 
palanquin. this from ortheris. 
fwhatever ut be we must have ut. ti the only sellin piece av property widin reach that we can get so cheap. an fwhat s a fight afther all. he ha rob the naygur man dishonust. we rob him honust for the sake av the whisky he give me. 
but wot ll we do with the bloomin article when we ve get it. them palanquin be a big a ouse an uncommon ard to sell a m cleary say when ye steal the sentry box from the curragh. 
who s goin to do t fightin. say learoyd and ortheris subside. the three return to barrack without a word. mulvaney s last argument clinch the matter. this palanquin be property vendible and to be attain in the simple and least embarrass fashion. it would eventually become beer. great be mulvaney. 
next afternoon a procession of three form itself and disappear into the scrub in the direction of the new railway line. learoyd alone be without care for mulvaney dive darkly into the future and little ortheris fear the unknown. what befall at that interview in the lonely pay shed by the side of the half build embankment only a few hundred cooly know and their tale be a confuse one run thus. 
we be at work. three men in red coat come. they saw the sahib dearsley sahib. they make oration. and noticeably the small man among the red coat. dearsley sahib also make oration and use many very strong word. upon this talk they depart together to an open space and there the fat man in the red coat fight with dearsley sahib after the custom of white men with his hand make no noise and never at all pull dearsley sahib s hair. such of u a be not afraid behold these thing for just so long a time a a man need to cook the mid day meal. the small man in the red coat have possess himself of dearsley sahib s watch. no he do not steal that watch. he hold it in his hand and at certain season make outcry and the twain cease their combat which be like the combat of young bull in spring. both men be soon all red but dearsley sahib be much more red than the other. see this and fear for his life because we greatly love him some fifty of u make shift to rush upon the red coat. but a certain man very black a to the hair and in no way to be confuse with the small man or the fat man who fight that man we affirm run upon u and of u he embrace some ten or fifty in both arm and beat our head together so that our liver turn to water and we run away. it be not good to interfere in the fighting of white men. after that dearsley sahib fell and do not rise these men jump upon his stomach and despoil him of all his money and attempt to fire the pay shed and depart. be it true that dearsley sahib make no complaint of these latter thing have be do. we be senseless with fear and do not at all remember. there be no palanquin near the pay shed. what do we know about palanquin. be it true that dearsley sahib doe not return to this place on account of his sickness for ten day. this be the fault of those bad men in the red coat who should be severely punish. for dearsley sahib be both our father and mother and we love him much. yet if dearsley sahib doe not return to this place at all we will speak the truth. there be a palanquin for the up keep of which we be force to pay nine tenth of our monthly wage. on such mulct dearsley sahib allow u to make obeisance to him before the palanquin. what could we do. we be poor men. he take a full half of our wage. will the government repay u those money. those three men in red coat bore the palanquin upon their shoulder and depart. all the money that dearsley sahib have take from u be in the cushion of that palanquin. therefore they steal it. thousand of rupee be there all our money. it be our bank box to fill which we cheerfully contribute to dearsley sahib three seventh of our monthly wage. why doe the white man look upon u with the eye of disfavour. before god there be a palanquin and now there be no palanquin. and if they send the police here to make inquisition we can only say that there never ha be any palanquin. why should a palanquin be near these work. we be poor men and we know nothing. 
such be the simple version of the simple story connect with the descent upon dearsley. from the lip of the cooly i receive it. dearsley himself be in no condition to say anything and mulvaney preserve a massive silence break only by the occasional lick of the lip. he have see a fight so gorgeous that even his power of speech be take from him. i respect that reserve until three day after the affair i discover in a disused stable in my quarter a palanquin of unchastened splendour evidently in past day the litter of a queen. the pole whereby it swing between the shoulder of the bearer be rich with the paint papier maché of cashmere. the shoulder pad be of yellow silk. the panel of the litter itself be ablaze with the love of all the god and goddess of the hindu pantheon lacquer on cedar. the cedar slide door be fit with hasp of translucent jaipur enamel and run in groove shoe with silver. the cushion be of brocade delhi silk and the curtain which once hide any glimpse of the beauty of the king s palace be stiff with gold. close investigation show that the entire fabric be everywhere rub and discolour by time and wear. but even thus it be sufficiently gorgeous to deserve house on the threshold of a royal zenana. i find no fault with it except that it be in my stable. then try to lift it by the silver shoe shoulder pole i laugh. the road from dearsley s pay shed to the cantonment be a narrow and uneven one and traverse by three very inexperienced palanquin bearer one of whom be sorely batter about the head must have be a path of torment. still i do not quite recognise the right of the three musketeer to turn me into a fence for steal property. 
[illustration. nine roun s they be even match an at the tenth. p. ]. 
i m askin you to warehouse ut say mulvaney when he be bring to consider the question. there s no steal in ut. dearsley tould u we cud have ut if we fight. jock fight an oh sorr when the throuble be at ut fine an jock be bleedin like a stick pig an little orth ri be shquealin on one leg chewin big bite out av dearsley s watch i wud ha give my place at the fight to have have you see wan round. he tuk jock a i suspicioned he would an jock be deceptive. nine roun s they be even match an at the tenth about that palanquin now. there s not the least throuble in the world or we wud not ha bring ut here. you will ondherstand that the queen god bless her. doe not reckon for a privit soldier to kape elephints an palanquin an sich in barricks. afther we have dhragged ut down from dearsley s through that cruel scrub that near break orth ri s heart we set ut in the ravine for a night. an a thief av a porcupine an a civet cat av a jackal roost in ut a well we know in the mornin. i put ut to you sorr be an elegint palanquin fit for the princess the natural abidin place av all the vermin in cantonmints. we bring ut to you afther dhark and put ut in your shtable. do not let your conscience prick. think av the rejoicin men in the pay shed yonder lookin at dearsley wid his head tie up in a towel an well knowin that they can dhraw their pay ivry month widout stoppage for riffle. indirectly sorr you have rescue from an onprincipled son av a night hawk the peasanthry av a numerous village. an besides will i let that sedan chair rot on our hand. not i. ti not every day a piece av pure joolry come into the market. there s not a king widin these forty mile he wave his hand round the dusty horizon not a king wud not be glad to buy ut. some day mesilf whin i have leisure i ll take ut up along the road an dishpose av ut. 
how. say i for i know the man be capable of anything. 
get into ut av coorse and keep wan eye open through the curtain. whin i see a likely man av the native persuasion i will descind blushin from my canopy and say buy a palanquin ye black scutt. i will have to hire four men to carry me first though. and that s impossible till next pay day. 
curiously enough learoyd who have fight for the prize and in the win secure the high pleasure life have to offer him be altogether dispose to undervalue it while ortheris openly say it would be good to break the thing up. dearsley he argue might be a many side man capable despite his magnificent fight quality of set in motion the machinery of the civil law a thing much abhor by the soldier. under any circumstance their fun have come and pass. the next pay day be close at hand when there would be beer for all. wherefore long conserve the paint palanquin. 
a first class rifle shoot an a good little man av your inch you be say mulvaney. but you niver have a head worth a soft boil egg. ti me ha to lie awake av night schamin an plottin for the three av u. orth ri me son ti no matther av a few gallon av beer no nor twenty gallon but tub an vat an firkin in that sedan chair. who ut be an what ut be an how ut get there we do not know. but i know in my bone that you an me an jock wid his sprain thumb will get a fortune thereby. lave me alone an let me think. 
meantime the palanquin stay in my stall the key of which be in mulvaney s hand. 
pay day come and with it beer. it be not in experience to hope that mulvaney dry by four week drought would avoid excess. next morning he and the palanquin have disappear. he have take the precaution of get three day leave to see a friend on the railway and the colonel well know that the seasonal outburst be near and hop it would spend it force beyond the limit of his jurisdiction cheerfully give him all he demand. at this point mulvaney s history a record in the mess room stop. 
ortheris carry it not much further. no e wasn t drink say the little man loyally the liquor be no more than feelin it way round inside of im. but e go an fill that ole bloomin palanquin with bottle fore e go off. e s go an ired six men to carry im an i ad to elp im into be nupshal couch cause e wouldn t ear reason. e s go off in be shirt an trousies swearin tremenjus go down the road in the palanquin wavin be leg out o windy. 
yes say i but where. 
now you arx me a question. e say e be goin to sell that palanquin but from observation what happen when i be stuffin im through the door i fancy e s go to the new embankment to mock at dearsley. soon a jock s off duty i m goin there to see if e s safe not mulvaney but t other man. my saint but i pity im a elps terence out o the palanquin when e s once fair drink. 
he ll come back without harm i say. 
corse e will. on y question be what ll e be doin on the road. kill dearsley like a not. e shouldn t a go without jock or me. 
reinforce by learoyd ortheris seek the foreman of the coolie gang. dearsley s head be still embellish with towel. mulvaney drink or sober would have strike no man in that condition and dearsley indignantly deny that he would have take advantage of the intoxicate brave. 
i have my pick o you two he explain to learoyd and you get my palanquin not before i d make my profit on it. why d i do harm when everything s settle. your man do come here drink a davy s sow on a frosty night come a purpose to mock me stick his head out of the door an call me a crucify hodman. i make him drunk an send him along. but i never touch him. 
to these thing learoyd slow to perceive the evidence of sincerity answer only if owt come to mulvaaney long o you i ll gripple you clout or no clout on your ugly head an i ll draw t throat twistyways man. see there now. 
the embassy remove itself and dearsley the batter laugh alone over his supper that even. 
three day pass a fourth and a fifth. the week draw to a close and mulvaney do not return. he his royal palanquin and his six attendant have vanish into air. a very large and very tipsy soldier his foot stick out of the litter of a reign princess be not a thing to travel along the way without comment. yet no man of all the country round have see any such wonder. he be and he be not. and learoyd suggest the immediate smashment of dearsley a a sacrifice to his ghost. ortheris insist that all be well and in the light of past experience his hope seem reasonable. 
when mulvaney go up the road say he e s like to go a very long way up specially when e s so blue drink a e be now. but what git me be be not bein eard of pullin wool off the nigger somewhere about. that don t look good. the drink must ha die out in im by this unless e s break a bank an then why don t e come back. e didn t ought to ha go off without u. 
even ortheris s heart sink at the end of the seventh day for half the regiment be out scour the countryside and learoyd have be force to fight two men who hint openly that mulvaney have desert. to do him justice the colonel laugh at the notion even when it be put forward by his much trust adjutant. 
mulvaney would a soon think of desert a you would say he. no. he s either fall into a mischief among the villager and yet that isn t likely for he d blarney himself out of the pit. or else he be engage on urgent private affair some stupendous devilment that we shall hear of at mess after it ha be the round of the barrack room. the bad of it be that i shall have to give him twenty eight day confinement at least for be absent without leave just when i most want him to lick the new batch of recruit into shape. i never know a man who could put a polish on young soldier a quickly a mulvaney can. how doe he do it. 
with blarney and the buckle end of a belt sir say the adjutant. he be worth a couple of non commission officer when we be deal with an irish draft and the london lad seem to adore him. the bad of it be that if he go to the cell the other two be neither to hold nor to bind till he come out again. i believe ortheris preach mutiny on those occasion and i know that the mere presence of learoyd mourn for mulvaney kill all the cheerfulness of his room. the sergeant tell me that he allow no man to laugh when he feel unhappy. they be a queer gang. 
for all that i wish we have a few more of them. i like a well conduct regiment but these pasty face shifty eye mealy mouth young sloucher from the depot worry me sometimes with their offensive virtue. they don t seem to have backbone enough to do anything but play card and prowl round the marry quarter. i believe i d forgive that old villain on the spot if he turn up with any sort of explanation that i could in decency accept. 
not likely to be much difficulty about that sir say the adjutant. mulvaney s explanation be only one degree le wonderful than his performance. they say that when he be in the black tyrone before he come to u he be discover on the bank of the liffey try to sell his colonel s charger to a donegal dealer a a perfect lady s hack. shackbolt command the tyrone then. 
shackbolt must have have apoplexy at the think of his ramp war horse answer to that description. he use to buy unbacked devil and tame them on some pet theory of starvation. what do mulvaney say. 
that he be a member of the society for the prevention of cruelty to animal anxious to sell the poor baste where he would get something to fill out his dimple. shackbolt laugh but i fancy that be why mulvaney exchange to ours. 
i wish he be back say the colonel. for i like him and believe he like me. 
that even to cheer our soul learoyd ortheris and i go into the waste to smoke out a porcupine. all the dog attend but even their clamour and they begin to discus the shortcoming of porcupine before they leave cantonment could not take u out of ourselves. a large low moon turn the top of the plume grass to silver and the stunt camelthorn bush and sour tamarisk into the likeness of troop devil. the smell of the sun have not leave the earth and little aimless wind blow across the rise garden to the southward bring the scent of dry rose and water. our fire once start and the dog craftily dispose to wait the dash of the porcupine we climb to the top of a rain scar hillock of earth and look across the scrub seam with cattle path white with the long grass and dot with spot of level pond bottom where the snipe would gather in winter. 
this say ortheris with a sigh a he take in the unkempt desolation of it all this be sanguinary. this be unusually sanguinary. sort o mad country. like a grate when the fire s put out by the sun. he shade his eye against the moonlight. an there s a loony dancin in the middle of it all. quite right. i d dance too if i wasn t so downheart. 
there prance a portent in the face of the moon a huge and rag spirit of the waste that flap it wing from afar. it have rise out of the earth. it be come towards u and it outline be never twice the same. the toga tablecloth or dress gown whatever the creature wear take a hundred shape. once it stop on a neighbour mound and fling all it leg and arm to the wind. 
my but that scarecrow a get em bad. say ortheris. seem like if e come any furder we ll ave to argify with im. 
learoyd raise himself from the dirt a a bull clear his flank of the wallow. and a a bull bellow so he after a short minute at gaze give tongue to the star. 
mulvaaney. mulvaaney. a hoo. 
oh then it be that we yell and the figure dip into the hollow till with a crash of rend grass the lose one stride up to the light of the fire and disappear to the waist in a wave of joyous dog. then learoyd and ortheris give greet bass and falsetto together both swallow a lump in the throat. 
[illustration. there prance a portent in the face of the moon. p. ]. 
you damn fool. say they and severally pound him with their fist. 
go easy. he answer. wrap a huge arm round each. i would have you to know that i be a god to be treat a such tho by my faith i fancy i ve get to go to the guard room just like a privit soldier. 
the latter part of the sentence destroy the suspicion raise by the former. any one would have be justify in regard mulvaney a mad. he be hatless and shoeless and his shirt and trouser be drop off him. but he wear one wondrous garment a gigantic cloak that fell from collar bone to heel of pale pink silk work all over in cunning needlework of hand long since dead with the love of the hindu god. the monstrous figure leap in and out of the light of the fire a he settle the fold round him. 
ortheris handle the stuff respectfully for a moment while i be try to remember where i have see it before. then he scream what ave you do with the palanquin. you re wearin the linin. 
i be say the irishman an by the same token the broidery be scrapin my hide off. i ve live in this sumpshus counterpane for four day. me son i begin to ondherstand why the naygur be no use. widout me boot an me trousies like an openwork stock on a gyurl s leg at a dance i begin to feel like a naygur man all fearful an timoreous. give me a pipe an i ll tell on. 
he light a pipe resume his grip of his two friend and rock to and fro in a gale of laughter. 
mulvaney say ortheris sternly taint no time for laughin. you ve give jock an me more trouble than you re worth. you ave be absent without leave an you ll go into cell for that. an you ave come back disgustin ly dress an most improper in the linin o that bloomin palanquin. instid of which you laugh. an we think you be dead all the time. 
bhoys say the culprit still shake gently whin i ve do my tale you may cry if you like an little orth ri here can thrample my inside out. ha do an listen. my performinces have be stupenjus. my luck ha be the bless luck av the british army an there s no betther than that. i go out dhrunk an dhrinkin in the palanquin and i have come back a pink god. do any of you go to dearsley afther my time be up. he be at the bottom of ut all. 
ah say so murmur learoyd. to morrow ah ll smash t face in upon his heead. 
ye will not. dearsley s a jool av a man. afther ortheris have put me into the palanquin an the six bearer men be gruntin down the road i tuk think to mock dearsley for that fight. so i tould thim go to the embankmint and there bein most amazin full i shtuck my head out av the concern an pass compliment wid dearsley. i must ha miscall him outrageous for whin i be that way the power av the tongue come on me. i can bare remimber tellin him that his mouth open endways like the mouth av a skate which be thrue afther learoyd have handle ut. an i clear remimber his takin no manner nor matter av offence but givin me a big dhrink of beer. twas the beer do the thrick for i crawl back into the palanquin steppin on me right ear wid me leave foot an thin i sleep like the dead. wanst i half rouse an begad the noise in my head be tremenjus roarin and rattlin an poundin such a be quite new to me. mother av mercy think i phwat a concertina i will have on my shoulder whin i wake. an wid that i curl mysilf up to sleep before ut should get hould on me. bhoys that noise be not dhrink twas the rattle av a thrain. 
there follow an impressive pause. 
yes he have put me on a thrain put me palanquin an all an six black assassin av his own cooly that be in his nefarious confidence on the flat av a ballast thruck and we be rowlin an bowlin along to benares. glory be that i do not wake up thin an introjuce mysilf to the cooly. a i be sayin i sleep for the betther part av a day an a night. but remimber you that that man dearsley have pack me off on wan av his material thrains to benares all for to make me overstay my leave an get me into the cell. 
the explanation be an eminently rational one. benares lay at least ten hour by rail from the cantonment and nothing in the world could have save mulvaney from arrest a a deserter have he appear there in the apparel of his orgy. dearsley have not forget to take revenge. learoyd draw back a little begin to play soft blow over select portion of mulvaney s body. his thought be away on the embankment and they meditate evil for dearsley. mulvaney continue. 
whin i be full awake the palanquin be set down in a street i suspicioned for i cud hear people passin an talkin. but i know well i be far from home. there be a queer smell upon our cantonment a smell av dry earth and brick kiln wid whiff av cavalry stable litter. this place smelt marigold flower an bad water an wanst somethin alive come an blow heavy with his muzzle at the chink av the shutter. it s in a village i be think i to mysilf an the parochial buffalo be investigatin the palanquin. but anyways i have no desire to move. only lie still whin you re in foreign part an the standin luck av the british army will carry ye through. that be an epigram. i make ut. 
thin a lot av whishperin divils surround the palanquin. take ut up sez wan man. but who ll pay u. sez another. the maharanee s minister av coorse sez the man. oho. sez i to mysilf i m a quane in me own right wid a minister to pay me expense. i ll be an emperor if i lie still long enough. but this be no village i ve find. i lay quiet but i gum me right eye to a crack av the shutter an i saw that the whole street be cram wid palanquin an horse an a sprinklin av naked priest all yellow powder an tiger tail. but i may tell you orth ri an you learoyd that av all the palanquin ours be the most imperial an magnificent. now a palanquin mean a native lady all the world over except whin a soldier av the quane happen to be takin a ride. woman an priest. sez i. your father s son be in the right pew this time terence. there will be proceedin s. six black divils in pink muslin tuk up the palanquin an oh. but the rowlin an the rockin make me sick. thin we get fair jam among the palanquin not more than fifty av them an we grate an bump like queenstown potato smack in a runnin tide. i cud hear the woman gigglin and squirkin in their palanquin but mine be the royal equipage. they make way for ut an begad the pink muslin men o mine be howlin room for the maharanee av gokral seetarun. do you know aught av the lady sorr. 
yes say i. she be a very estimable old queen of the central indian state and they say she be fat. how on earth could she go to benares without all the city know her palanquin. 
twas the eternal foolishness av the naygur man. they saw the palanquin lie loneful an forlornsome an the beauty av ut after dearsley s men have dhropped ut and go away an they give ut the best name that occur to thim. quite right too. for aught we know the ould lady be thravellin incog like me. i m glad to hear she s fat. i be no light weight mysilf an my men be mortial anxious to dhrop me under a great big archway promiscuously ornament wid the most improper carvin s an cuttin s i iv saw. begad. they make me blush like a like a maharanee. 
the temple of prithi devi i murmur remember the monstrous horror of that sculpture archway at benares. 
pretty devilskins savin your presence sorr. there be nothin pretty about ut except me. twas all half dhark an whin the cooly leave they shut a big black gate behind av u an half a company av fat yellow priest begin pully haulin the palanquin into a dharker place yet a big stone hall full av pillar an god an incense an all manner av similar thruck. the gate disconcert me for i perceive i wud have to go forward to get out my retreat bein cut off. by the same token a good priest make a bad palanquin coolie. begad. they nearly turn me inside out draggin the palanquin to the temple. now the disposishin av the force inside be this way. the maharanee av gokral seetarun that be me lay by the favour av providence on the far leave flank behind the dhark av a pillar carve with elephints head. the remainder av the palanquin be in a big half circle face in to the big fat an most amazin she god that iv i dream av. her head run up into the black above u an her foot stick out in the light av a little fire av melt butter that a priest be feedin out av a butter dish. thin a man begin to sing an play on somethin back in the dhark an twas a queer song. ut make my hair lift on the back av my neck. thin the door av all the palanquin slide back an the woman bundle out. i saw what i ll niver see again. twas more glorious than thransformations at a pantomime for they be in pink an blue an silver an red an grass green wid dimonds an imralds an great red ruby all over thim. but that be the least part av the glory. o bhoys they be more lovely than the like av any loveliness in hiven. ay their little bare foot be good than the white hand av a lord s lady an their mouth be like pucker rose an their eye be big an dharker than the eye av any livin woman i ve see. ye may laugh but i m speakin truth. i niver saw the like an niver i will again. 
see that in all probability you be watch the wife and daughter of most of the king of india the chance be that you win t i say for it be dawn on me that mulvaney have stumble upon a big queen pray at benares. 
i niver will he say mournfully. that sight doesn t come twist to any man. it make me ashamed to watch. a fat priest knock at my door. i didn t think he d have the insolince to disturb the maharanee av gokral seetarun so i lay still. the old cow s asleep sez he to another. let her be sez that. twill be long before she ha a calf. i might ha know before he speak that all a woman pray for in injia an for matter o that in england too be childher. that make me more sorry i d come me bein a you well know a childless man. 
he be silent for a moment think of his little son dead many year ago. 
they pray an the butter fire blaze up an the incense turn everything blue an between that an the fire the woman look a tho they be all ablaze an twinklin. they take hold av the she god s knee they cry out an they throw themselves about an that world without end amen music be dhrivin thim mad. mother av hiven. how they cry an the ould she god grinnin above thim all so scornful. the dhrink be dyin out in me fast an i be thinkin hard than the thought wud go through my head thinkin how to get out an all manner of nonsense a well. the woman be rockin in row their di mond belt clickin an the tear runnin out betune their hand an the light be goin low an dharker. thin there be a blaze like lightnin from the roof an that show me the inside av the palanquin an at the end where my foot be stand the livin spit an image o mysilf work on the linin. this man here ut be. 
he hunt in the fold of his pink cloak run a hand under one and thrust into the firelight a foot long embroider presentment of the great god krishna play on a flute. the heavy jowl the star eye and the blue black moustache of the god make up a far off resemblance to mulvaney. 
the blaze be go in a wink but the whole schame come to me thin. i believe i be mad too. i slide the off shutter open an rowled out into the dhark behind the elephint head pillar tuck up my trousies to my knee slip off my boot an tuk a general hould av all the pink linin av the palanquin. glory be ut rip out like a woman s dhriss when you tread on ut at a sergeant ball an a bottle come with ut. i tuk the bottle an the next minut i be out av the dhark av the pillar the pink linin wrap round me most graceful the music thunderin like kettledrum an a could draft blowin round my bare leg. by this hand that do ut i be krishna tootlin on the flute the god that the rig mental chaplain talk about. a sweet sight i must ha look. i know my eye be big and my face be wax white an at the bad i must ha look like a ghost. but they take me for the livin god. the music stop and the woman be dead dumb an i crook my leg like a shepherd on a china basin an i do the ghost waggle with my foot a i have do ut at the rig mental theatre many time an i slide acrost the width av that temple in front av the she god tootlin on the beer bottle. 
wot do you toot. demand ortheris the practical. 
[illustration. i be krishna tootlin on the flute. p. ]. 
me. oh. mulvaney spring up suit the action to the word and slide gravely in front of u a dilapidate but impose deity in the half light. i sing. 
only say you ll be mr. brallaghan. don t say nay charmin judy callaghan. 
i didn t know me own voice when i sing. an oh. twas pitiful to see the woman. the darlin s be down on their face. whin i pass the last wan i cud see her poor little finger workin one in another a if she want to touch my foot. so i dhrew the tail av this pink overcoat over her head for the great honour an i slide into the dhark on the other side av the temple and fetch up in the arm av a big fat priest. all i want be to get away clear. so i tuk him by his greasy throat an shut the speech out av him. out. sez i. which way ye fat heathen. oh. sez he. man sez i. white man soldier man common soldier man. where in the name av confusion be the back door. the woman in the temple be still on their face an a young priest be holdin out his arm above their head. 
this way sez my fat friend duckin behind a big bull god an divin into a passage. thin i remimbered that i must ha make the miraculous reputation av that temple for the next fifty year. not so fast i sez an i hold out both my hand wid a wink. that ould thief smile like a father. i tuk him by the back av the neck in case he should be wishful to put a knife into me unbeknowst an i run him up an down the passage twice to collect his sensibility. be quiet sez he in english. now you talk sense i sez. fwhat ll you give me for the use av that most iligant palanquin i have no time to take away. don t tell sez he. be ut like. sez i. but ye might give me my railway fare. i m far from my home an i ve do you a service. bhoys ti a good thing to be a priest. the ould man niver throubled himself to dhraw from a bank. a i will prove to you subsequint he philander all round the slack av his clothe an begin dribblin ten rupee note old gold mohurs and rupee into my hand till i could hould no more. 
you lie. say ortheris. you re mad or sunstrook. a native don t give coin unless you cut it out o im. tain t nature. 
then my lie an my sunstroke be conceal under that lump av sod yonder retort mulvaney unruffled nod across the scrub. an there s a dale more in nature than your squidgy little leg have iv take you to orth ri me son. four hundred an thirty four rupee by my reckonin an a big fat gold necklace that i take from him a a remimbrancer be our share in that business. 
an e give it you for love. say ortheris. 
we be alone in that passage. maybe i be a trifle too pressin but considher fwhat i have do for the good av the temple and the iverlastin joy av those woman. twas cheap at the price. i wud ha take more if i cud ha find ut. i turn the ould man upside down at the last but he be milk dhry. thin he open a door in another passage an i find mysilf up to my knee in benares river water an bad smellin ut be. more by token i have come out on the river line close to the burnin ghat and contagious to a cracklin corpse. this be in the heart av the night for i have be four hour in the temple. there be a crowd av boat tie up so i tuk wan an wint across the river. thin i come home acrost country lyin up by day. 
how on earth do you manage. i say. 
how do sir frederick robert get from cabul to candahar. he march an he niver tould how near he be to breakin down. that s why he be fwhat he be. an now mulvaney yawn portentously. now i will go an give myself up for absince widout leave. it s eight an twenty day an the rough end of the colonel s tongue in orderly room any way you look at ut. but ti cheap at the price. 
mulvaney say i softly. if there happen to be any sort of excuse that the colonel can in any way accept i have a notion that you ll get nothing more than the dress down. the new recruit be in and. 
not a word more sorr. be ut excuse the old man want. ti not my way but he shall have thim. i ll tell him i be engage in financial operation connect wid a church and he flap his way to cantonment and the cell sing lustily. 
so they send a corp ril s file and they put me in the gyard room for conduck unbecomin of a soldier. 
and when he be lose in the mist of the moonlight we could hear the refrain. 
bang upon the big drum bash upon the cymbal a we go marchin along boy oh. for although in this campaign there s no whisky nor champagne we ll keep our spirit goin with a song boy. 
therewith he surrender himself to the joyful and almost weep guard and be make much of by his fellow. but to the colonel he say that he have be smite with sunstroke and have lie insensible on a villager s cot for untold hour. and between laughter and good will the affair be smooth over so that he could next day teach the new recruit how to fear god honour the queen shoot straight and keep clean. 
[illustration]. 
[illustration]. 
the take of lungtungpen. 
so we loose a bloomin volley an we make the beggar cut an when our pouch be empty out we use the bloomin butt ho. my. don t yer come anigh when tommy be a playin with the baynit an the butt. 
barrack room ballad. 
my friend private mulvaney tell me this sit on the parapet of the road to dagshai when we be hunt butterfly together. he have theory about the army and colour clay pipe perfectly. he say that the young soldier be the best to work with on account av the surpass innocinse av the child. 
now listen. say mulvaney throw himself full length on the wall in the sun. i m a bear scutt av the barrick room. the army s mate an dhrink to me bekaze i m wan av the few that can t quit ut. i ve put in sivinteen year an the pipeclay s in the marrow av me. av i cud have keep out av wan big dhrink a month i wud have be a hon ry lift nint by this time a nuisince to my betthers a laughin shtock to my equils an a curse to meself. bein fwhat i be i m privit mulvaney wid no good conduc pay an a devourin thirst. always barrin me little frind bob bahadur i know a much about the army a most men. 
i say something here. 
wolseley be shoot. betune you an me an that butterfly net he s a ramblin incoherint sort av a divil wid wan oi on the quane an the coort an the other on his bless silf everlastin ly play saysar an alexandrier rowled into a lump. now bob be a sensible little man. wid bob an a few three year old i d swape any army av the earth into a towel an throw it away aftherwards. faith i m not jokin. ti the bhoys the raw bhoys that don t know fwhat a bullut mane an wudn t care av they do that dhu the work. they re cram wid bull mate till they fairly ramp wid good livin. and thin av they don t fight they blow each other s hids off. ti the trut i m tellin you. they shud be keep on water an rice in the hot weather. but there d be a mut ny av twas do. 
do ye iv hear how privit mulvaney tuk the town av lungtungpen. i think not. twas the lift nint get the credit. but twas me plan the schame. a little before i be inviladed from burma me an four an twenty young wan undher a lift nint brazenose be ruinin our dijeshins thryin to catch dacoit. an such double end divils i niver know. ti only a dah an a snide that make a dacoit. widout thim he s a paceful cultivator an felony for to shoot. we hunt an we hunt an tuk fever an elephints now an again. but no dacoit. evenshually we puckarowed wan man. trate him tinderly sez the lift nint. so i tuk him away into the jungle wid the burmese interprut r an my clanin rod. sez i to the man my paceful squireen sez i you shquot on your hunker an dimonstrate to my frind here where your frinds be whin they re at home. wid that i introjuced him to the clanin rod an he comminst to jabber. the interprut r interprutin in betweens an me helpin the intilligince departmint wid my clanin rod whin the man misremimbered. 
prisintly i learn that acrost the river about nine mile away be a town just dhrippin wid dah an bohs an arrow an dacoit an elephints an jingle. good. sez i. this office will now close. 
that night i go to the lift nint an communicate my information. i never think much of lift nint brazenose till that night. he be shtiff wid book an the ouries an all manner av thrimmin s no manner av use. town do ye say. sez he. accordin to the ouries av war we shud wait for reinforcemints. faith. think i we d betther dig our graf thin. for the near throops be up to their shtocks in the marsh out mimbu way. but say the lift nint since ti a speshil case i ll make an excepshin. we ll visit this lungtungpen to night. 
[illustration. shtrip bhoys sez i. shtrip to the buff an shwim in where glory wait. p. ]. 
the bhoys be fairly woild wid deloight whin i tould em. an by this an that they wint through the jungle like buck rabbit. about midnight we come to the shtrame which i have clane forget to minshin to my orficer. i be on ahead wid four bhoys an i think that the lift nint might want to the ourise. shtrip bhoys sez i. shtrip to the buff an shwim in where glory wait. but i can t shwim. sez two av thim. to think i should live to hear that from a bhoy wid a board school edukashin. sez i. take a lump av thimber an me an conolly here will ferry ye over ye young lady. 
we get an ould tree trunk an push off wid the kit an the rifle on it. the night be chokin dhark an just a we be fairly embark i hear the lift nint behind av me callin out. there s a bite av a nullah here sorr sez i but i can feel the bottom already. so i cud for i be not a yard from the bank. 
bite av a nullah. bite av an eshtuary. sez the lift nint. go on ye mad irishman. shtrip bhoys. i hear him laugh. an the bhoys begin shtrippin an rollin a log into the wather to put their kit on. so me an conolly shtruck out through the warm wather wid our log an the rest come on behind. 
that shtrame be mile woide. orth ri on the rear rank log whisper we have get into the thames below sheerness by mistake. kape on shwimmin ye little blayguard sez i an don t go pokin your dirty joke at the irriwaddy. silince men. sing out the lift nint. so we shwum on into the black dhark wid our chest on the log trustin in the saint an the luck av the british army. 
evenshually we hit grind a bite av sand an a man. i put my heel on the back av him. he skreeched an run. 
_now we ve do it. sez lift nint brazenose. where the divil be lungtungpen. there be about a minute and a half to wait. the bhoys lay a hould av their rifle an some thried to put their belt on. we be marchin wid fix baynits av coorse. thin we know where lungtungpen be. for we have hit the river wall av it in the dhark an the whole town blaze wid thim messin jingle an sniders like a cat s back on a frosty night. they be firin all way at wanst. but over our hids into the shtrame. 
have you get your rifle. sez brazenose. get em. sez orth ri. i ve get that thief mulvaney s for all my back pay an she ll kick my heart sick wid that blunderin long shtock av hers. go on. yell brazenose whippin his sword out. go on an take the town. an the lord have mercy on our sowls. 
[illustration. there be a melly av a sumpshus kind for a whoile. p. ]. 
thin the bhoys give wan divastatin howl an prance into the dhark feelin for the town an blindin an stiffin like cavalry ridin master whin the grass prick their bare leg. i hammer wid the butt at some bamboo thing that felt wake an the rest come an hammer contagious while the jingle be jingle an feroshus yell from inside be shplittin our ear. we be too close under the wall for thim to hurt u. 
evenshually the thing whatever ut be bruk. an the six and twinty av u tumble wan after the other naked a we be borrun into the town of lungtungpen. there be a melly av a sumpshus kind for a whoile. but whether they tuk u all white an wet for a new breed av divil or a new kind av dacoit i don t know. they run a though we be both an we wint into thim baynit an butt shriekin wid laughin. there be torch in the shtreets an i saw little orth ri rubbin his showlther ivry time he loose my long shtock martini. an brazenose walkin into the gang wid his sword like diarmid av the gowlden collar bar he hadn t a stitch av clothin on him. we diskivered elephints wid dacoit under their belly an what wid wan thing an another we be busy till mornin takin possession av the town of lungtungpen. 
thin we halt an form up the wimmen howlin in the house an lift nint brazenose blushin pink in the light av the mornin sun. twas the most ondasint p rade i iv tuk a hand in. foive and twenty privits an an orficer av the line in review ordher an not a much a wud dust a fife betune em all in the way of clothin. eight av u have their belt an pouch on. but the rest have go in wid a handful av cartridge an the skin god give thim. they be a nakid a vanus. 
number off from the right. sez the lift nint. odd number fall out to dress. even number pathrol the town till relieve by the dress party. let me tell you pathrollin a town wid nothing on be an ex_pay_rience. i pathrolled for tin minute an begad before twas over i blush. the woman laugh so. i niver blush before or since. but i blush all over my carkiss thin. orth ri didn t pathrol. he sez only portsmith barricks an the aard av a sunday. thin he lay down an rowled any way wid laughin. 
whin we be all dhressed we count the dead sivinty foive dacoit besides wound. we tuk five elephints a hunder an sivinty sniders two hunder dah and a lot av other burglarious thruck. not a man av u be hurt excep maybe the lift nint an he from the shock to his dasincy. 
the headman av lungtungpen who surrinder d himself ask the interprut r av the english fight like that wid their clo e off what in the wurruld do they do wid their clo e on. orth ri begin rowlin his eye an crackin his finger an dancin a step dance for to impress the headman. he run to his house. an we spint the rest av the day carryin the lift nint on our showlthers round the town an playin wid the burmese baby fat little brown little divils a pretty a picturs. 
whin i be inviladed for the dysent ry to india i sez to the lift nint sorr sez i you ve the makin s in you av a great man. but av you ll let an ould sodger spake you re too fond of the ourisin. he shuk hand wid me and sez hit high hit low there s no plasin you mulvaney. you ve see me waltzin through lungtungpen like a red injin widout the war paint an you say i m too fond av the ourisin. sorr sez i for i love the bhoy. i wud waltz wid you in that condishin through hell_ an so wud the rest av the men. thin i wint downshtrame in the flat an leave him my blessin. may the saint carry ut where ut should go for he be a fine upstandin young orficer. 
to reshume. fwhat i ve say jist show the use av three year old. wud fifty season sodgers have take lungtungpen in the dhark that way. no. they d know the risk av fever and chill. let alone the shootin. two hundher might have do ut. but the three year old know little an care le. an where there s no fear there s no danger. catch thim young fee thim high an by the honour av that great little man bob behind a good orficer tisn t only dacoit they d smash wid their clo e off ti con ti nental ar r r mies. they tuk lungtungpen nakid. an they d take st. pethersburg in their dhrawers. begad they would that. 
here s your pipe sorr. shmoke her tinderly wid honey dew afther let the reek av the canteen plug die away. but ti no good thank to you all the same fillin my pouch wid your chop hay. canteen baccy s like the army. it shpoils a man s taste for moilder thing. 
so say mulvaney take up his butterfly net and return to barrack. 
[illustration]. 
[illustration]. 
the madness of private ortheris. 
oh. where would i be when my froat be dry. oh. where would i be when the bullet fly. oh. where would i be when i come to die. why somewhere anigh my chum. if e s liquor e ll give me some if i m dyin e ll old my ead an e ll write em ome when i m dead. gawd send u a trusty chum. 
barrack room ballad. 
my friend mulvaney and ortheris have go on a shoot expedition for one day. learoyd be still in hospital recover from fever pick up in burma. they send me an invitation to join them and be genuinely pain when i bring beer almost enough beer to satisfy two private of the line and me. 
twasn t for that we bid you welkim sorr say mulvaney sulkily. twas for the pleasure av your comp ny. 
ortheris come to the rescue with well e win t be none the bad for bringin liquor with im. we ain t a file o dooks. we re bloomin tommies ye cantankris hirishman. an ere s your very good ealth. 
we shoot all the forenoon and kill two pariah dog four green parrot sit one kite by the burn ghaut one snake fly one mud turtle and eight crow. game be plentiful. then we sit down to tiffin bull mate an bran bread mulvaney call it by the side of the river and take pot shot at the crocodile in the interval of cut up the food with our only pocket knife. then we drink up all the beer and throw the bottle into the water and fire at them. after that we ease belt and stretch ourselves on the warm sand and smoke. we be too lazy to continue shoot. 
ortheris heave a big sigh a he lay on his stomach with his head between his fist. then he swear quietly into the blue sky. 
fwhat s that for. say mulvaney. have ye not drink enough. 
tott nim court road an a gal i fancy there. wot s the good of sodgerin. 
orth ri me son say mulvaney hastily ti more than likely you ve get throuble in your inside wid the beer. i feel that way mesilf whin my liver get rusty. 
[illustration. ortheris heave a big sigh. p. ]. 
ortheris go on slowly not heed the interruption. 
i m a tommy a bloomin eight anna dog stealin tommy with a number instead of a decent name. wot s the good o me. if i ad a stay at ome i might a marry that gal and a kep a little shorp in the ammersmith igh. s. orth ri prac ti cal taxi d mist. with a stuff fox like they a in the haylesbury dairy in the winder an a little case of blue and yaller glass heyes an a little wife to call shorp. shorp. when the door bell ring. a it his_ i m on y a tommy a bloomin gawd forsake beer swillin tommy. rest on your harm verse. stan at hease. shun. verse harm. right an lef tarrn. slow march. alt front. rest on your harm verse. with blank cartridge load. an that s the end o me. he be quote fragment from funeral party order. 
stop ut. shout mulvaney. whin you ve fire into nothin a often a me over a good man than yoursilf you will not make a mock av thim order. ti bad than whistlin the dead march in barricks. an you full a a tick an the sun cool an all an all. i take shame for you. you re no good than a pagin you an your firin party an your glass eye. win t you stop ut sorr. 
what could i do. could i tell ortheris anything that he do not know of the pleasure of his life. i be not a chaplain nor a subaltern and ortheris have a right to speak a he think fit. 
let him run mulvaney i say. it s the beer. 
no. tisn t the beer say mulvaney. i know fwhat s comin. he s tuk this way now an agin an it s bad it s bad for i m fond av the bhoy. 
indeed mulvaney seem needlessly anxious. but i know that he look after ortheris in a fatherly way. 
let me talk let me talk say ortheris dreamily. d you stop your parrit screamin of a ot day when the cage be a cookin be pore little pink toe orf mulvaney. 
pink toe. d ye mane to say you ve pink toe undher your bullswools ye blandanderin mulvaney gather himself together for a terrific denunciation school misthress. pink toe. how much bass wid the label do that ravin child dhrink. 
tain t bass say ortheris. it s a bitter beer nor that. it s ome sickness. 
hark to him. an he goin home in the sherapis in the inside av four month. 
i don t care. it s all one to me. ow d you know i ain t fraid o dyin fore i get my discharge paipers. he recommence in a sing song voice the order. 
i have never see this side of ortheris s character before but evidently mulvaney have and attach serious importance to it. while ortheris babble with his head on his arm mulvaney whisper to me. 
he s always tuk this way whin he s be check overmuch by the childher they make sarjints nowadays. that an havin nothin to do. i can t make ut out anyways. 
well what doe it matter. let him talk himself through. 
ortheris begin sing a parody of the ramrod corps_ full of cheerful allusion to battle murder and sudden death. he look out across the river a he sing. and his face be quite strange to me. mulvaney catch me by the elbow to ensure attention. 
matther. it matthers everything. ti some sort av fit that s on him. i ve see ut. twill hould him all this night an in the middle av it he ll get out av his cot an go rakin in the rack for his courtremints. thin he ll come over to me an say i m goin to bombay. answer for me in the mornin. thin me an him will fight a we ve do before him to go an me to hould him an so we ll both come on the book for disturbin in barricks. i ve belt him an i ve bruk his head an i ve talk to him but ti no manner av use whin the fit s on him. he s a good a bhoy a ever step whin his mind s clear. i know fwhat s comin though this night in barricks. lord send he doesn t loose on me whin i rise to knock him down. ti that that s in my mind day an night. 
this put the case in a much le pleasant light and fully account for mulvaney s anxiety. he seem to be try to coax ortheris out of the fit. for he shout down the bank where the boy be lie. 
listen now you wid the pore pink toe an the glass eye. do you shwim the irriwaddy at night behin me a a bhoy shud. or be you hidin under a bed a you be at ahmid kheyl. 
this be at once a gross insult and a direct lie and mulvaney mean it to bring on a fight. but ortheris seem shut up in some sort of trance. he answer slowly without a sign of irritation in the same cadenced voice a he have use for his fire party order. 
hi swim the irriwaddy in the night a you know for to take the town of lungtungpen nakid an without fear. hand where i be at ahmed kheyl you know and four bloomin paythans know too. but that be summat to do an i didn t think o dyin. now i m sick to go ome go ome go ome. no i ain t mammysick because my uncle brung me up but i m sick for london again. sick for the sound of er an the sight of er and the stink of er. orange peel and hasphalte an gas comin in over vaux all bridge. sick for the rail goin down to box ill with your gal on your knee an a new clay pipe in your face. that an the stran light where you know ev ry one an the copper that take you up be a old friend that tuk you up before when you be a little smitchy boy lie loose tween the temple an the dark harches. no bloomin guard mountin no bloomin rotten stone nor khaki an yourself your own master with a gal to take an see the humaners practisin a hookin dead corps out of the serpentine o sunday. an i lef all that for to serve the widder beyond the sea where there ain t no woman and there ain t no liquor worth avin and there ain t nothin to see nor do nor say nor feel nor think. lord love you stanley orth ri but you re a big bloomin fool than the rest o the reg ment and mulvaney wire together. there s the widder sittin at ome with a gold crownd on er ead. and ere be hi stanley orth ri the widder s property a rottin fool. 
his voice rise at the end of the sentence and he wind up with a six shoot anglo vernacular oath. mulvaney say nothing but look at me a if he expect that i could bring peace to poor ortheris s trouble brain. 
i remember once at rawal pindi have see a man nearly mad with drink sober by be make a fool of. some regiment may know what i mean. i hop that we might slake off ortheris in the same way though he be perfectly sober. so i say. 
what s the use of grouse there and speak against the widow. 
i didn t. say ortheris. s elp me gawd i never say a word agin er an i wouldn t not if i be to desert this minute. 
here be my open. well you mean to anyhow. what s the use of crack on for nothing. would you slip it now if you get the chance. 
on y try me. say ortheris jump to his foot a if he have be sting. 
mulvaney jump too. fwhat be you go to do. say he. 
help ortheris down to bombay or karachi whichever he like. you can report that he separate from you before tiffin and leave his gun on the bank here. 
i m to report that be i. say mulvaney slowly. very well. if orth ri mane to desert now and will desert now an you sorr who have be a frind to me an to him will help him to ut i terence mulvaney on my oath which i ve never bruk yet will report a you say. but here he step up to ortheris and shake the stock of the fowl piece in his face your fistes help you stanley orth ri if ever i come across you agin. 
i don t care. say ortheris. i m sick o this dorg s life. give me a chanst. don t play with me. le me go. 
strip say i and change with me and then i ll tell you what to do. 
i hop that the absurdity of this would check ortheris. but he have kick off his ammunition boot and get rid of his tunic almost before i have loose my shirt collar. mulvaney grip me by the arm. 
the fit s on him. the fit s workin on him still. by my honour and sowl we shall be accessiry to a desartion yet. only twenty eight day a you say sorr or fifty six but think o the shame the black shame to him an me. i have never see mulvaney so excite. 
but ortheris be quite calm and a soon a he have exchange clothe with me and i stand up a private of the line he say shortly now. come on. what nex. d ye mean fair. what must i do to get out o this ere a hell. 
i tell him that if he would wait for two or three hour near the river i would ride into the station and come back with one hundred rupee. he would with that money in his pocket walk to the near side station on the line about five mile away and would there take a first class ticket for karachi. know that he have no money on him when he go out shoot his regiment would not immediately wire to the seaport but would hunt for him in the native village near the river. further no one would think of seek a deserter in a first class carriage. at karachi he be to buy white clothe and ship if he could on a cargo steamer. 
here he break in. if i help him to karachi he would arrange all the rest. then i order him to wait where he be until it be dark enough for me to ride into the station without my dress be notice. now god in his wisdom ha make the heart of the british soldier who be very often an unlicked ruffian a soft a the heart of a little child in order that he may believe in and follow his officer into tight and nasty place. he doe not so readily come to believe in a civilian but when he doe he belief implicitly and like a dog. i have have the honour of the friendship of private ortheris at interval for more than three year and we have deal with each other a man by man. consequently he consider that all my word be true and not speak lightly. 
mulvaney and i leave him in the high grass near the river bank and go away still keep to the high grass towards my horse. the shirt scratch me horribly. 
[illustration. we set off at the double and find him plunge about wildly through the grass. p. ]. 
we wait nearly two hour for the dusk to fall and allow me to ride off. we speak of ortheris in whisper and strain our ear to catch any sound from the spot where we have leave him. but we hear nothing except the wind in the plume grass. 
i ve bruk his head say mulvaney earnestly time an agin. i ve nearly kilt him wid the belt an yet i can t knock thim fit out av his soft head. no. an he s not soft for he s reasonable an likely by natur. fwhat be ut. be ut his breedin which be nothin or his edukashin which he niver get. you that think ye know thing answer me that. 
but i find no answer. i be wonder how long ortheris in the bank of the river would hold out and whether i should be force to help him to desert a i have give my word. 
just a the dusk shut down and with a very heavy heart i be begin to saddle up my horse we hear wild shout from the river. 
the devil have depart from private stanley ortheris no. b company. the loneliness the dusk and the wait have drive them out a i have hop. we set off at the double and find him plunge about wildly through the grass with his coat off my coat off i mean. he be call for u like a madman. 
when we reach him he be drip with perspiration and tremble like a startle horse. we have great difficulty in soothe him. he complain that he be in civilian kit and want to tear my clothe off his body. i order him to strip and we make a second exchange a quickly a possible. 
the rasp of his own grayback shirt and the squeak of his boot seem to bring him to himself. he put his hand before his eye and say. 
wot be it. i ain t mad i ain t sunstrook an i ve bin an go an say an bin an go an do wot ave i bin an do. 
fwhat have you do. say mulvaney. you ve dishgraced yourself though that s no matter. you ve dishgraced b comp ny an bad av all you ve dishgraced me. me that teach you how for to walk abroad like a man whin you be a dhirty little fish back little whimperin little recruity. a you be now stanley orth ri. 
ortheris say nothing for a while. then he unslung his belt heavy with the badge of half a dozen regiment that his own have lie with and hand it over to mulvaney. 
i m too little for to mill you mulvaney say he an you ve strook me before. but you can take an cut me in two with this ere if you like. 
mulvaney turn to me. 
lave me to talk to him sorr say mulvaney. 
i leave and on my way home think a good deal over ortheris in particular and my friend private thomas atkins whom i love in general. 
but i could not come to any conclusion of any kind whatever. 
the end. 
new uniform edition of the story and poem of rudyard kipling. seven volume mo cloth. 
plain tale from the hill. 
new edition. mo cloth $. 
mr. kipling know and appreciate the english in india and be a bear storyteller and a man of humour into the bargain. it would be hard to find good read. the saturday review london. 
the light that fail. 
new edition. mo cloth $. 
the light that fail be an organic whole a book with a backbone and stand out boldly among the nerveless flaccid invertebrate thing that enjoy an expensive but ephemeral existence in the circulate library. the athenæum. 
life s handicap. 
story of mine own people. 
new edition. mo cloth $. 
no volume of his yet publish give a good illustration of his genius and of the weird charm which ha give his story such deserve popularity. boston daily traveler. 
the naulahka. 
a story of east and west. 
by rudyard kipling and wolcott balestier. 
mo cloth $. 
what be the most surprise and at the same time most admirable in this book be the manner in which mr. kipling seem to grasp the character of the native woman. we know of nothing in the english language of it kind to compare with chapter xx. in it delicacy and genuine sympathy. 
under the deodar the phantom rickshaw and wee willie winkie. 
with additional matter now publish for the first time. mo cloth $. 
soldier three the story of the gadsbys and black and white. 
also together with additional matter. 
mo cloth $. 
ballad and barrack room ballad. 
mo cloth $. 
mr. kipling differ from other ballad writer of the day in that he ha that rare possession imagination and he ha the temerity to speak out what be in him with no conventional reservation or deference to the hypocrisy of public opinion. boston beacon. 
the macmillan company fifth avenue new york. 
work by rolf boldrewood. 
robbery under arm. 
new edition. mo. cloth. $. 
we have nothing but praise for this story. of adventure of the most stir kind there be a we have say abundance. but there be more than this. the character be draw with great skill. this be a book of no common literary force. spectator. 
the miner s right. 
a tale of the australian gold field. 
mo. cloth. $. 
full of good passage passage abound in vivacity in the color and play of lif. the pith of the book lie in it singularly fresh and vivid picture of the humor of the gold field. tragic humor enough they be too. world. 
the squat s dream. 
mo. cloth. $. 
a story of australian life tell with directness and force. the author s mastery of his subject add much to the impressiveness of the story which no doubt might be tell a literally true of hundred of restless and ambitious young australian. n. y. tribune. 
a colonial reformer. 
mo. cloth. $. 
rolf boldrewood ha write much and well on the australian colony but chiefly in the form of novel and good novel they be too. the australian scene rural and urban be vividly describe by mr. boldrewood and there be among the character example of the various adventurer and rogue that infest new country which recall our early california day. whoever want to know how they live in australia will have the want supply. philadelphia even bulletin. 
one of the most interest book about australia we have ever read. glasgow herald. 
nevermore. 
mo. cloth. $. 
the plot of this story be skilfully draw the various character be delineate with unusual power. the book be rich in local color a it be in graphic description and move incident. week. 
the story be tell with such naturalness and minuteness of detail that it seem to be a narrative of actual occurrence rather than a creation of the imagination. home journal. 
a modern buccaneer. 
mo. cloth. $. 
the book from cover to cover be fill with incident and charm description. a novel of rare merit. nashua republican. 
the character be draw with great skill. philadelphia press. 
the work be a vivid story of the sea and be full of adventure with sustain interest to the last page of the volume. new york observer. 
the crook stick. or polly s probation. 
mo. cloth. $. 
his character be draw with skill his locality be strongly individualize and his directness and vivacity display no common literary force. boston journal. 
a fascinate novel. the press. 
the book be very charm and satisfy. it local description of the wild and arid region of corindah and picture of australian farm and domestic life be peculiarly attractive. boston home journal. 
the macmillan company fifth avenue new york. 
