the second jungle book. 
by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
how fear come the law of the jungle the miracle of purun bhagat a song of kabir let in the jungle mowgli s song against people the undertaker a ripple song the king s ankus the song of the little hunter quiquern angutivaun taina red dog chil s song the spring run the outsong. 
how fear come. 
the stream be shrink the pool be dry and we be comrade thou and i. with fevered jowl and dusty flank each jostle each along the bank. and by one drouthy fear make still forgo think of quest or kill. now neath his dam the fawn may see the lean pack wolf a cow a he and the tall buck unflinching note the fang that tear his father s throat. the pool be shrink the stream be dry and we be playmate thou and i till yonder cloud good hunt. loose the rain that break our water truce. 
the law of the jungle which be by far the old law in the world ha arrange for almost every kind of accident that may befall the jungle people till now it code be a perfect a time and custom can make it. you will remember that mowgli spend a great part of his life in the seeonee wolf pack learn the law from baloo the brown bear. and it be baloo who tell him when the boy grow impatient at the constant order that the law be like the giant creeper because it drop across every one s back and no one could escape. when thou hast live a long a i have little brother thou wilt see how all the jungle obey at least one law. and that will be no pleasant sight say baloo. 
this talk go in at one ear and out at the other for a boy who spend his life eat and sleep doe not worry about anything till it actually stare him in the face. but one year baloo s word come true and mowgli saw all the jungle work under the law. 
it begin when the winter rain fail almost entirely and ikki the porcupine meet mowgli in a bamboo thicket tell him that the wild yam be dry up. now everybody know that ikki be ridiculously fastidious in his choice of food and will eat nothing but the very best and ripe. so mowgli laugh and say what be that to me. 
not much now say ikki rattle his quill in a stiff uncomfortable way but late we shall see. be there any more dive into the deep rock pool below the bee rock little brother. 
no. the foolish water be go all away and i do not wish to break my head say mowgli who in those day be quite sure that he know a much a any five of the jungle people put together. 
that be thy loss. a small crack might let in some wisdom. ikki duck quickly to prevent mowgli from pull his nose bristle and mowgli tell baloo what ikki have say. baloo look very grave and mumble half to himself. if i be alone i would change my hunt ground now before the others begin to think. and yet hunt among stranger end in fight. and they might hurt the man cub. we must wait and see how the mohwa bloom. 
that spring the mohwa tree that baloo be so fond of never flower. the greeny cream colour waxy blossom be heat kill before they be bear and only a few bad smell petal come down when he stand on his hind leg and shake the tree. then inch by inch the untempered heat creep into the heart of the jungle turn it yellow brown and at last black. the green growth in the side of the ravine burn up to break wire and curl film of dead stuff. the hide pool sink down and cake over keep the last least footmark on their edge a if it have be cast in iron. the juicy stem creeper fell away from the tree they cling to and die at their foot. the bamboo wither clank when the hot wind blow and the moss peel off the rock deep in the jungle till they be a bare and a hot a the quiver blue boulder in the bed of the stream. 
the bird and the monkey people go north early in the year for they know what be come. and the deer and the wild pig break far away to the perish field of the village die sometimes before the eye of men too weak to kill them. chil the kite stay and grow fat for there be a great deal of carrion and even after even he bring the news to the beast too weak to force their way to fresh hunt ground that the sun be kill the jungle for three day flight in every direction. 
mowgli who have never know what real hunger mean fell back on stale honey three year old scrap out of desert rock hive honey black a a sloe and dusty with dry sugar. he hunt too for deep bore grub under the bark of the tree and rob the wasp of their new brood. all the game in the jungle be no more than skin and bone and bagheera could kill thrice in a night and hardly get a full meal. but the want of water be the bad for though the jungle people drink seldom they must drink deep. 
and the heat go on and on and suck up all the moisture till at last the main channel of the waingunga be the only stream that carry a trickle of water between it dead bank. and when hathi the wild elephant who life for a hundred year and more saw a long lean blue ridge of rock show dry in the very centre of the stream he know that he be look at the peace rock and then and there he lift up his trunk and proclaim the water truce a his father before him have proclaim it fifty year ago. the deer wild pig and buffalo take up the cry hoarsely. and chil the kite fly in great circle far and wide whistle and shriek the warn. 
by the law of the jungle it be death to kill at the drink place when once the water truce ha be declare. the reason of this be that drink come before eat. every one in the jungle can scramble along somehow when only game be scarce. but water be water and when there be but one source of supply all hunt stop while the jungle people go there for their need. in good season when water be plentiful those who come down to drink at the waingunga or anywhere else for that matter do so at the risk of their life and that risk make no small part of the fascination of the night s do. to move down so cunningly that never a leaf stir. to wade knee deep in the roar shallow that drown all noise from behind. to drink look backward over one shoulder every muscle ready for the first desperate bind of keen terror. to roll on the sandy margin and return wet muzzle and well plump out to the admire herd be a thing that all tall antlered young buck take a delight in precisely because they know that at any moment bagheera or shere khan might leap upon them and bear them down. but now all that life and death fun be end and the jungle people come up starve and weary to the shrink river tiger bear deer buffalo and pig all together drink the foul water and hang above them too exhaust to move off. 
the deer and the pig have tramp all day in search of something good than dry bark and wither leaf. the buffalo have find no wallow to be cool in and no green crop to steal. the snake have leave the jungle and come down to the river in the hope of find a stray frog. they curl round wet stone and never offer to strike when the nose of a root pig dislodge them. the river turtle have long ago be kill by bagheera clever of hunter and the fish have bury themselves deep in the dry mud. only the peace rock lay across the shallow like a long snake and the little tire ripple hiss a they dry on it hot side. 
it be here that mowgli come nightly for the cool and the companionship. the most hungry of his enemy would hardly have care for the boy then his naked hide make him seem more lean and wretched than any of his fellow. his hair be bleach to tow colour by the sun. his rib stand out like the rib of a basket and the lump on his knee and elbow where he be use to track on all four give his shrink limb the look of knot grass stem. but his eye under his mat forelock be cool and quiet for bagheera be his adviser in this time of trouble and tell him to go quietly hunt slowly and never on any account to lose his temper. 
it be an evil time say the black panther one furnace hot even but it will go if we can live till the end. be thy stomach full man cub. 
there be stuff in my stomach but i get no good of it. think you bagheera the rain have forget u and will never come again. 
not i. we shall see the mohwa in blossom yet and the little fawn all fat with new grass. come down to the peace rock and hear the news. on my back little brother. 
this be no time to carry weight. i can still stand alone but indeed we be no fat bullock we two. 
bagheera look along his rag dusty flank and whisper. last night i kill a bullock under the yoke. so low be i bring that i think i should not have dare to spring if he have be loose. wou. 
mowgli laugh. yes we be great hunter now say he. i be very bold to eat grub and the two come down together through the crackle undergrowth to the river bank and the lace work of shoal that run out from it in every direction. 
the water cannot live long say baloo join them. look across. yonder be trail like the road of man. 
on the level plain of the farther bank the stiff jungle grass have die stand and die have mummied. the beat track of the deer and the pig all head toward the river have strip that colourless plain with dusty gully drive through the ten foot grass and early a it be each long avenue be full of first comer hasten to the water. you could hear the doe and fawn cough in the snuff like dust. 
up stream at the bend of the sluggish pool round the peace rock and warden of the water truce stand hathi the wild elephant with his son gaunt and gray in the moonlight rock to and fro always rock. below him a little be the vanguard of the deer. below these again the pig and the wild buffalo. and on the opposite bank where the tall tree come down to the water s edge be the place set apart for the eater of flesh the tiger the wolf the panther the bear and the others. 
we be under one law indeed say bagheera wad into the water and look across at the line of click horn and start eye where the deer and the pig push each other to and fro. good hunt all you of my blood he add lie own at full length one flank thrust out of the shallow. and then between his teeth but for that which be the law it would be very good hunt. 
the quick spread ear of the deer catch the last sentence and a frighten whisper run along the rank. the truce. remember the truce. 
peace there peace. gurgle hathi the wild elephant. the truce hold bagheera. this be no time to talk of hunt. 
who should know good than i. bagheera answer roll his yellow eye up stream. i be an eater of turtle a fisher of frog. ngaayah. would i could get good from chew branch. 
we wish so very greatly bleat a young fawn who have only be bear that spring and do not at all like it. wretched a the jungle people be even hathi could not help chuckle. while mowgli lie on his elbow in the warm water laugh aloud and beat up the scum with his foot. 
well speak little bud horn bagheera purr. when the truce end that shall be remember in thy favour and he look keenly through the darkness to make sure of recognise the fawn again. 
gradually the talk spread up and down the drink place. one could hear the scuffle snort pig ask for more room. the buffalo grunt among themselves a they lurch out across the sand bar and the deer tell pitiful story of their long foot sore wandering in quest of food. now and again they ask some question of the eater of flesh across the river but all the news be bad and the roar hot wind of the jungle come and go between the rock and the rattle branch and scatter twig and dust on the water. 
the men folk too they die beside their plough say a young sambhur. i pass three between sunset and night. they lay still and their bullock with them. we also shall lie still in a little. 
the river ha fall since last night say baloo. o hathi hast thou ever see the like of this drought. 
it will pas it will pas say hathi squirt water along his back and side. 
we have one here that cannot endure long say baloo. and he look toward the boy he love. 
i. say mowgli indignantly sit up in the water. i have no long fur to cover my bone but but if thy hide be take off baloo. 
hathi shake all over at the idea and baloo say severely. 
man cub that be not seemly to tell a teacher of the law. never have i be see without my hide. 
nay i mean no harm baloo. but only that thou art a it be like the cocoanut in the husk and i be the same cocoanut all naked. now that brown husk of thine mowgli be sit cross legged and explain thing with his forefinger in his usual way when bagheera put out a paddy paw and pull him over backward into the water. 
bad and bad say the black panther a the boy rise splutter. first baloo be to be skin and now he be a cocoanut. be careful that he doe not do what the ripe cocoanut do. 
and what be that. say mowgli off his guard for the minute though that be one of the old catch in the jungle. 
break thy head say bagheera quietly pull him under again. 
it be not good to make a jest of thy teacher say the bear when mowgli have be duck for the third time. 
not good. what would ye have. that naked thing run to and fro make a monkey jest of those who have once be good hunter and pull the best of u by the whisker for sport. this be shere khan the lame tiger limp down to the water. he wait a little to enjoy the sensation he make among the deer on the opposite to lap growl. the jungle ha become a whelp grind for naked cub now. look at me man cub. 
mowgli look star rather a insolently a he know how and in a minute shere khan turn away uneasily. man cub this and man cub that he rumble go on with his drink the cub be neither man nor cub or he would have be afraid. next season i shall have to beg his leave for a drink. augrh. 
that may come too say bagheera look him steadily between the eye. that may come too faugh shere khan. what new shame hast thou bring here. 
the lame tiger have dip his chin and jowl in the water and dark oily streak be float from it down stream. 
man. say shere khan coolly i kill an hour since. he go on purr and growl to himself. 
the line of beast shake and waver to and fro and a whisper go up that grow to a cry. man. man. he ha kill man. then all look towards hathi the wild elephant but he seem not to hear. hathi never doe anything till the time come and that be one of the reason why he life so long. 
at such a season a this to kill man. be no other game afoot. say bagheera scornfully draw himself out of the taint water and shake each paw cat fashion a he do so. 
i kill for choice not for food. the horrify whisper begin again and hathi s watchful little white eye cock itself in shere khan s direction. for choice shere khan drawl. now come i to drink and make me clean again. be there any to forbid. 
bagheera s back begin to curve like a bamboo in a high wind but hathi lift up his trunk and speak quietly. 
thy kill be from choice. he ask. and when hathi ask a question it be best to answer. 
even so. it be my right and my night. thou knowest o hathi. shere khan speak almost courteously. 
yes i know hathi answer. and after a little silence hast thou drink thy fill. 
for to night yes. 
go then. the river be to drink and not to defile. none but the lame tiger would so have boast of his right at this season when when we suffer together man and jungle people alike. clean or unclean get to thy lair shere khan. 
the last word ring out like silver trumpet and hathi s three son roll forward half a pace though there be no need. shere khan slink away not dare to growl for he know what every one else know that when the last come to the last hathi be the master of the jungle. 
what be this right shere khan speak of. mowgli whisper in bagheera s ear. to kill man be always shameful. the law say so. and yet hathi say. 
ask him. i do not know little brother. right or no right if hathi have not speak i would have teach that lame butch his lesson. to come to the peace rock fresh from a kill of man and to boast of it be a jackal s trick. besides he taint the good water. 
mowgli wait for a minute to pick up his courage because no one care to address hathi directly and then he cry. what be shere khan s right o hathi. both bank echo his word for all the people of the jungle be intensely curious and they have just see something that none except baloo who look very thoughtful seem to understand. 
it be an old tale say hathi. a tale old than the jungle. keep silence along the bank and i will tell that tale. 
there be a minute or two of push a shoulder among the pig and the buffalo and then the leader of the herd grunt one after another we wait and hathi stride forward till he be nearly knee deep in the pool by the peace rock. lean and wrinkle and yellow tusk though he be he look what the jungle know him to be their master. 
ye know child he begin that of all thing ye most fear man. and there be a mutter of agreement. 
this tale touch thee little brother say bagheera to mowgli. 
i. i be of the pack a hunter of the free people mowgli answer. what have i to do with man. 
and ye do not know why ye fear man. hathi go on. this be the reason. in the begin of the jungle and none know when that be we of the jungle walk together have no fear of one another. in those day there be no drought and leaf and flower and fruit grow on the same tree and we eat nothing at all except leaf and flower and grass and fruit and bark. 
i be glad i be not bear in those day say bagheera. bark be only good to sharpen claw. 
and the lord of the jungle be tha the first of the elephant. he draw the jungle out of deep water with his trunk. and where he make furrow in the grind with his tusk there the river run. and where he strike with his foot there rise pond of good water. and when he blow through his trunk thus the tree fell. that be the manner in which the jungle be make by tha. and so the tale be tell to me. 
it ha not lose fat in the tell bagheera whisper and mowgli laugh behind his hand. 
in those day there be no corn or melon or pepper or sugar cane nor be there any little hut such a ye have all see. and the jungle people know nothing of man but live in the jungle together make one people. but presently they begin to dispute over their food though there be graze enough for all. they be lazy. each wish to eat where he lay a sometimes we can do now when the spring rain be good. tha the first of the elephant be busy make new jungle and lead the river in their bed. he could not walk in all place. therefore he make the first of the tiger the master and the judge of the jungle to whom the jungle people should bring their dispute. in those day the first of the tiger eat fruit and grass with the others. he be a large a i be and he be very beautiful in colour all over like the blossom of the yellow creeper. there be never stripe nor bar upon his hide in those good day when this the jungle be new. all the jungle people come before him without fear and his word be the law of all the jungle. we be then remember ye one people. 
yet upon a night there be a dispute between two buck a graze quarrel such a ye now settle with the horn and the fore foot and it be say that a the two speak together before the first of the first of the tiger lie among the flower a buck push him with his horn and the first of the tiger forget that he be the master and judge of the jungle and leap upon that buck break his neck. 
till that night never one of u have die and the first of the tiger see what he have do and be make foolish by the scent of the blood run away into the marsh of the north and we of the jungle leave without a judge fell to fight among ourselves. and tha hear the noise of it and come back. then some of u say this and some of u say that but he saw the dead buck among the flower and ask who have kill and we of the jungle would not tell because the smell of the blood make u foolish. we run to and fro in circle caper and cry out and shake our head. then tha give an order to the tree that hang low and to the trail creeper of the jungle that they should mark the killer of the buck so that he should know him again and he say who will now be master of the jungle people. then up leap the gray ape who life in the branch and say i will now be master of the jungle. 
at this tha laugh and say so be it and go away very angry. 
child ye know the gray ape. he be then a he be now. at the first he make a wise face for himself but in a little while he begin to scratch and to leap up and down and when tha come back he find the gray ape hang head down from a bough mock those who stand below. and they mock him again. and so there be no law in the jungle only foolish talk and senseless word. 
then tha call u all together and say. the first of your master ha bring death into the jungle and the second shame. now it be time there be a law and a law that ye must not break. now ye shall know fear and when ye have find him ye shall know that he be your master and the rest shall follow. then we of the jungle say what be fear. and tha say seek till ye find. so we go up and down the jungle seek for fear and presently the buffalo. 
ugh. say mysa the leader of the buffalo from their sand bank. 
yes mysa it be the buffalo. they come back with the news that in a cave in the jungle sit fear and that he have no hair and go upon his hind leg. then we of the jungle follow the herd till we come to that cave and fear stand at the mouth of it and he be a the buffalo have say hairless and he walk upon his hind leg. when he saw u he cry out and his voice fill u with the fear that we have now of that voice when we hear it and we run away tramp upon and tear each other because we be afraid. that night so it be tell to me we of the jungle do not lie down together a use to be our custom but each tribe draw off by itself the pig with the pig the deer with the deer. horn to horn hoof to hoof like keep to like and so lay shake in the jungle. 
only the first of the tiger be not with u for he be still hide in the marsh of the north and when word be bring to him of the thing we have see in the cave he say. i will go to this thing and break his neck. so he run all the night till he come to the cave. but the tree and the creeper on his path remember the order that tha have give let down their branch and mark him a he run draw their finger across his back his flank his forehead and his jowl. wherever they touch him there be a mark and a stripe upon his yellow hide. and those stripe do this child wear to this day. when he come to the cave fear the hairless one put out his hand and call him the strip one that come by night and the first of the tiger be afraid of the hairless one and run back to the swamp howl. 
mowgli chuckle quietly here his chin in the water. 
so loud do he howl that tha hear him and say what be the sorrow. and the first of the tiger lift up his muzzle to the new make sky which be now so old say. give me back my power o tha. i be make ashamed before all the jungle and i have run away from a hairless one and he ha call me a shameful name. and why. say tha. because i be smear with the mud of the marsh say the first of the tiger. swim then and roll on the wet grass and if it be mud it will wash away say tha. and the first of the tiger swim and roll and roll upon the grass till the jungle run round and round before his eye but not one little bar upon all his hide be change and tha watch him laugh. then the first of the tiger say. what have i do that this come to me. tha say thou hast kill the buck and thou hast let death loose in the jungle and with death ha come fear so that the people of the jungle be afraid one of the other a thou art afraid of the hairless one. the first of the tiger say they will never fear me for i know them since the begin. tha say go and see. and the first of the tiger run to and fro call aloud to the deer and the pig and the sambhur and the porcupine and all the jungle people and they all run away from him who have be their judge because they be afraid. 
then the first of the tiger come back and his pride be break in him and beat his head upon the grind he tear up the earth with all his foot and say. remember that i be once the master of the jungle. do not forget me o tha. let my child remember that i be once without shame or fear. and tha say. this much i will do because thou and i together saw the jungle make. for one night in each year it shall be a it be before the buck be kill for thee and for thy child. in that one night if ye meet the hairless one and his name be man ye shall not be afraid of him but he shall be afraid of you a though ye be judge of the jungle and master of all thing. show him mercy in that night of his fear for thou hast know what fear be. 
then the first of the tiger answer i be content. but when next he drink he saw the black stripe upon his flank and his side and he remember the name that the hairless one have give him and he be angry. for a year he live in the marsh wait till tha should keep his promise. and upon a night when the jackal of the moon [the even star] stand clear of the jungle he felt that his night be upon him and he go to that cave to meet the hairless one. then it happen a tha promise for the hairless one fell down before him and lay along the grind and the first of the tiger strike him and break his back for he think that there be but one such thing in the jungle and that he have kill fear. then nose above the kill he hear tha come down from the wood of the north and presently the voice of the first of the elephant which be the voice that we hear now. 
the thunder be roll up and down the dry scar hill but it bring no rain only heat lightning that flicker along the ridge and hathi go on. that be the voice he hear and it say. be this thy mercy. the first of the tiger lick his lip and say. what matter. i have kill fear. and tha say. o blind and foolish. thou hast untie the foot of death and he will follow thy trail till thou diest. thou hast teach man to kill. 
the first of the tiger stand stiffly to his kill say. he be a the buck be. there be no fear. now i will judge the jungle people once more. 
and tha say. never again shall the jungle people come to thee. they shall never cross thy trail nor sleep near thee nor follow after thee nor browse by thy lair. only fear shall follow thee and with a blow that thou canst not see he shall bid thee wait his pleasure. he shall make the grind to open under thy foot and the creeper to twist about thy neck and the tree trunk to grow together about thee high than thou canst leap and at the last he shall take thy hide to wrap his cub when they be cold. thou hast show him no mercy and none will he show thee. 
the first of the tiger be very bold for his night be still on him and he say. the promise of tha be the promise of tha. he will not take away my night. and tha say. the one night be thine a i have say but there be a price to pay. thou hast teach man to kill and he be no slow learner. 
the first of the tiger say. he be here under my foot and his back be break. let the jungle know i have kill fear. 
then tha laugh and say. thou hast kill one of many but thou thyself shalt tell the jungle for thy night be end. 
so the day come. and from the mouth of the cave go out another hairless one and he saw the kill in the path and the first of the tiger above it and he take a point stick. 
they throw a thing that cut now say ikki rustle down the bank. for ikki be consider uncommonly good eat by the gond they call him ho igoo and he know something of the wicked little gondee axe that whirl across a clear like a dragon fly. 
it be a point stick such a they put in the foot of a pit trap say hathi and throw it he strike the first of the tiger deep in the flank. thus it happen a tha say for the first of the tiger run howl up and down the jungle till he tear out the stick and all the jungle know that the hairless one could strike from far off and they fear more than before. so it come about that the first of the tiger teach the hairless one to kill and ye know what harm that ha since do to all our people through the noose and the pitfall and the hide trap and the fly stick and the sting fly that come out of white smoke [hathi mean the rifle] and the red flower that drive u into the open. yet for one night in the year the hairless one fear the tiger a tha promise and never ha the tiger give him cause to be le afraid. where he find him there he kill him remember how the first of the tiger be make ashamed. for the rest fear walk up and down the jungle by day and by night. 
ahi. aoo. say the deer think of what it all mean to them. 
and only when there be one great fear over all a there be now can we of the jungle lay aside our little fear and meet together in one place a we do now. 
for one night only doe man fear the tiger. say mowgli. 
for one night only say hathi. 
but i but we but all the jungle know that shere khan kill man twice and thrice in a moon. 
even so. then he spring from behind and turn his head aside a he strike for he be full of fear. if man look at him he would run. but on his one night he go openly down to the village. he walk between the house and thrust his head into the doorway and the men fall on their face and there he doe his kill. one kill in that night. 
oh. say mowgli to himself roll over in the water. now i see why it be shere khan bid me look at him. he get no good of it for he could not hold his eye steady and and i certainly do not fall down at his foot. but then i be not a man be of the free people. 
umm. say bagheera deep in his furry throat. doe the tiger know his night. 
never till the jackal of the moon stand clear of the even mist. sometimes it fall in the dry summer and sometimes in the wet rain this one night of the tiger. but for the first of the tiger this would never have be nor would any of u have know fear. 
the deer grunt sorrowfully and bagheera s lip curl in a wicked smile. do men know this tale. say he. 
none know it except the tiger and we the elephant the child of tha. now ye by the pool have hear it and i have speak. 
hathi dip his trunk into the water a a sign that he do not wish to talk. 
but but but say mowgli turn to baloo why do not the first of the tiger continue to eat grass and leaf and tree. he do but break the buck s neck. he do not eat. what lead him to the hot meat. 
the tree and the creeper mark him little brother and make him the strip thing that we see. never again would he eat their fruit. but from that day he revenge himself upon the deer and the others the eater of grass say baloo. 
then thou knowest the tale. heh. why have i never hear. 
because the jungle be full of such tale. if i make a begin there would never be an end to them. let go my ear little brother. 
the law of the jungle. 
just to give you an idea of the immense variety of the jungle law i have translate into verse. baloo always recite them in a sort of sing song. a few of the law that apply to the wolf. there be of course hundred and hundred more but these will do for specimen of the simple ruling. 
now this be the law of the jungle a old and a true a the sky. and the wolf that shall keep it may prosper but the wolf that shall break it must die. 
a the creeper that girdle the tree trunk the law runneth forward and back for the strength of the pack be the wolf and the strength of the wolf be the pack. 
wash daily from nose tip to tail tip. drink deeply but never too deep. and remember the night be for hunt and forget not the day be for sleep. 
the jackal may follow the tiger but cub when thy whisker be grow remember the wolf be a hunter go forth and get food of thine own. 
keep peace with the lord of the jungle the tiger the panther the bear. and trouble not hathi the silent and mock not the boar in his lair. 
when pack meet with pack in the jungle and neither will go from the trail lie down till the leader have speak it may be fair word shall prevail. 
when ye fight with a wolf of the pack ye must fight him alone and afar l others take part in the quarrel and the pack be diminish by war. 
the lair of the wolf be his refuge and where he ha make him his home not even the head wolf may enter not even the council may come. 
the lair of the wolf be his refuge but where he ha digged it too plain the council shall send him a message and so he shall change it again. 
if ye kill before midnight be silent and wake not the wood with your bay l ye frighten the deer from the crop and the brother go empty away. 
ye may kill for yourselves and your mate and your cub a they need and ye can. but kill not for pleasure of kill and seven time never kill man. 
if ye plunder his kill from a weak devour not all in thy pride. pack right be the right of the mean. so leave him the head and the hide. 
the kill of the pack be the meat of the pack. ye must eat where it lie. and no one may carry away of that meat to his lair or he dy. 
the kill of the wolf be the meat of the wolf. he may do what he will but till he ha give permission the pack may not eat of that kill. 
cub right be the right of the yearling. from all of his pack he may claim full gorge when the killer ha eat. and none may refuse him the same. 
lair right be the right of the mother. from all of her year she may claim one haunch of each kill for her litter and none may deny her the same. 
cave right be the right of the father to hunt by himself for his own. he be free of all call to the pack. he be judge by the council alone. 
because of his age and his cunning because of his gripe and his paw in all that the law leaveth open the word of the head wolf be law. 
now these be the law of the jungle and many and mighty be they. but the head and the hoof of the law and the haunch and the hump be obey. 
the miracle of purun bhagat. 
the night we felt the earth would move we steal and pluck him by the hand because we love him with the love that know but cannot understand. 
and when the roar hillside break and all our world fell down in rain we save him we the little folk. but lo. he doe not come again. 
mourn now we save him for the sake of such poor love a wild one may. mourn ye. our brother will not wake and his own kind drive u away. 
dirge of the langur. 
there be once a man in india who be prime minister of one of the semi independent native state in the north western part of the country. he be a brahmin so high caste that caste cease to have any particular mean for him. and his father have be an important official in the gay colour tag rag and bobtail of an old fashion hindu court. but a purun das grow up he felt that the old order of thing be change and that if any one wish to get on in the world he must stand well with the english and imitate all that the english believe to be good. at the same time a native official must keep his own master s favour. this be a difficult game but the quiet close mouth young brahmin help by a good english education at a bombay university play it coolly and rise step by step to be prime minister of the kingdom. that be to say he hold more real power than his master the maharajah. 
when the old king who be suspicious of the english their railway and telegraph die purun das stand high with his young successor who have be tutor by an englishman. and between them though he always take care that his master should have the credit they establish school for little girl make road and start state dispensary and show of agricultural implement and publish a yearly blue book on the moral and material progress of the state and the foreign office and the government of india be delight. very few native state take up english progress altogether for they will not believe a purun das show he do that what be good for the englishman must be twice a good for the asiatic. the prime minister become the honour friend of viceroy and governor and lieutenant governor and medical missionary and common missionary and hard rid english officer who come to shoot in the state preserve a well a of whole host of tourist who travel up and down india in the cold weather show how thing ought to be manage. in his spare time he would endow scholarship for the study of medicine and manufacture on strictly english line and write letter to the pioneer the great indian daily paper explain his master s aim and object. 
at last he go to england on a visit and have to pay enormous sum to the priest when he come back. for even so high caste a brahmin a purun das lose caste by cross the black sea. in london he meet and talk with every one worth know men whose name go all over the world and saw a great deal more than he say. he be give honorary degree by learn university and he make speech and talk of hindu social reform to english lady in even dress till all london cry this be the most fascinate man we have ever meet at dinner since cloth be first lay. 
when he return to india there be a blaze of glory for the viceroy himself make a special visit to confer upon the maharajah the grand cross of the star of india all diamond and ribbon and enamel. and at the same ceremony while the cannon boom purun das be make a knight commander of the order of the indian empire. so that his name stand sir purun das k. c. i. e. 
that even at dinner in the big viceregal tent he stand up with the badge and the collar of the order on his breast and reply to the toast of his master s health make a speech few englishman could have better. 
next month when the city have return to it sun bake quiet he do a thing no englishman would have dream of do. for so far a the world s affair go he die. the jewel order of his knighthood go back to the indian government and a new prime minister be appoint to the charge of affair and a great game of general post begin in all the subordinate appointment. the priest know what have happen and the people guess. but india be the one place in the world where a man can do a he plea and nobody ask why. and the fact that dewan sir purun das k. c. i. e. have resign position palace and power and take up the beg bowl and ochre colour dress of a sunnyasi or holy man be consider nothing extraordinary. he have be a the old law recommend twenty year a youth twenty year a fighter though he have never carry a weapon in his life and twenty year head of a household. he have use his wealth and his power for what he know both to be worth. he have take honour when it come his way. he have see men and city far and near and men and city have stand up and honour him. now he would let those thing go a a man drop the cloak he no long need. 
behind him a he walk through the city gate an antelope skin and brass handle crutch under his arm and a beg bowl of polish brown coco de m in his hand barefoot alone with eye cast on the grind behind him they be fire salute from the bastion in honour of his happy successor. purun das nod. all that life be end. and he bore it no more ill will or good will than a man bear to a colourless dream of the night. he be a sunnyasi a houseless wander mendicant depend on his neighbour for his daily bread. and so long a there be a morsel to divide in india neither priest nor beggar starve. he have never in his life taste meat and very seldom eat even fish. a five pound note would have cover his personal expense for food through any one of the many year in which he have be absolute master of million of money. even when he be be lionise in london he have hold before him his dream of peace and quiet the long white dusty indian road print all over with bare foot the incessant slow move traffic and the sharp smell wood smoke curl up under the fig tree in the twilight where the wayfarer sit at their even meal. 
when the time come to make that dream true the prime minister take the proper step and in three day you might more easily have find a bubble in the trough of the long atlantic sea than purun das among the rove gather separate million of india. 
at night his antelope skin be spread where the darkness overtake him sometimes in a sunnyasi monastery by the roadside. sometimes by a mud pillar shrine of kala pir where the jogis who be another misty division of holy men would receive him a they do those who know what caste and division be worth. sometimes on the outskirt of a little hindu village where the child would steal up with the food their parent have prepare. and sometimes on the pitch of the bare graze ground where the flame of his stick fire wake the drowsy camel. it be all one to purun das or purun bhagat a he call himself now. earth people and food be all one. but unconsciously his foot draw him away northward and eastward. from the south to rohtak. from rohtak to kurnool. from kurnool to ruin samanah and then up stream along the dry bed of the gugger river that fill only when the rain fall in the hill till one day he saw the far line of the great himalaya. 
then purun bhagat smile for he remember that his mother be of rajput brahmin birth from kulu way a hill woman always home sick for the snow and that the least touch of hill blood draw a man in the end back to where he belong. 
yonder say purun bhagat breast the low slope of the sewaliks where the cactus stand up like seven branch candlestick yonder i shall sit down and get knowledge. and the cool wind of the himalaya whistle about his ear a he tread the road that lead to simla. 
the last time he have come that way it have be in state with a clatter cavalry escort to visit the gentle and most affable of viceroy. and the two have talk for an hour together about mutual friend in london and what the indian common folk really think of thing. this time purun bhagat pay no call but lean on the rail of the mall watch that glorious view of the plain spread out forty mile below till a native mohammedan policeman tell him he be obstruct traffic. and purun bhagat salaam reverently to the law because he know the value of it and be seek for a law of his own. then he move on and sleep that night in an empty hut at chota simla which look like the very last end of the earth but it be only the begin of his journey. he follow the himalaya thibet road the little ten foot track that be blast out of solid rock or strut out on timber over gulf a thousand foot deep. that dip into warm wet shut in valley and climb out across bare grassy hill shoulder where the sun strike like a burn glass. or turn through drip dark forest where the tree fern dress the trunk from head to heel and the pheasant call to his mate. and he meet thibetan herdsman with their dog and flock of sheep each sheep with a little bag of borax on his back and wander wood cutter and cloak and blanket lama from thibet come into india on pilgrimage and envoy of little solitary hill state post furiously on ring streak and piebald pony or the cavalcade of a rajah pay a visit. or else for a long clear day he would see nothing more than a black bear grunt and root below in the valley. when he first start the roar of the world he have leave still ring in his ear a the roar of a tunnel ring long after the train ha pass through. but when he have put the mutteeanee pas behind him that be all do and purun bhagat be alone with himself walk wonder and think his eye on the grind and his thought with the cloud. 
one even he cross the high pas he have meet till then it have be a two day s climb and come out on a line of snow peak that band all the horizon mountain from fifteen to twenty thousand foot high look almost near enough to hit with a stone though they be fifty or sixty mile away. the pas be crown with dense dark forest deodar walnut wild cherry wild olive and wild pear but mostly deodar which be the himalayan cedar. and under the shadow of the deodar stand a desert shrine to kali who be durga who be sitala who be sometimes worship against the smallpox. 
purun das sweep the stone floor clean smile at the grin statue make himself a little mud fireplace at the back of the shrine spread his antelope skin on a bed of fresh pine needle tuck his bairagi his brass handle crutch under his armpit and sit down to rest. 
immediately below him the hillside fell away clean and clear for fifteen hundred foot where a little village of stone wall house with roof of beat earth cling to the steep tilt. all round it the tiny terrace field lay out like apron of patchwork on the knee of the mountain and cow no big than beetle graze between the smooth stone circle of the thresh floor. look across the valley the eye be deceive by the size of thing and could not at first realise that what seem to be low scrub on the opposite mountain flank be in truth a forest of hundred foot pine. purun bhagat saw an eagle swoop across the gigantic hollow but the great bird dwindle to a dot ere it be half way over. a few band of scatter cloud string up and down the valley catch on a shoulder of the hill or rise up and die out when they be level with the head of the pas. and here shall i find peace say purun bhagat. 
now a hill man make nothing of a few hundred foot up or down and a soon a the villager saw the smoke in the desert shrine the village priest climb up the terrace hillside to welcome the strange. 
when he meet purun bhagat s eye the eye of a man use to control thousand he bow to the earth take the beg bowl without a word and return to the village say we have at last a holy man. never have i see such a man. he be of the plain but pale colour a brahmin of the brahmin. then all the housewife of the village say think you he will stay with u. and each do her best to cook the most savoury meal for the bhagat. hill food be very simple but with buckwheat and indian corn and rice and red pepper and little fish out of the stream in the valley and honey from the flue like hive build in the stone wall and dry apricot and turmeric and wild ginger and bannock of flour a devout woman can make good thing and it be a full bowl that the priest carry to the bhagat. be he go to stay. ask the priest. would he need a chela a disciple to beg for him. have he a blanket against the cold weather. be the food good. 
purun bhagat eat and thank the giver. it be in his mind to stay. that be sufficient say the priest. let the beg bowl be place outside the shrine in the hollow make by those two twist root and daily should the bhagat be feed. for the village felt honour that such a man he look timidly into the bhagat s face should tarry among them. 
that day saw the end of purun bhagat s wandering. he have come to the place appoint for him the silence and the space. after this time stop and he sit at the mouth of the shrine could not tell whether he be alive or dead. a man with control of his limb or a part of the hill and the cloud and the shift rain and sunlight. he would repeat a name softly to himself a hundred hundred time till at each repetition he seem to move more and more out of his body sweep up to the door of some tremendous discovery. but just a the door be open his body would drag him back and with grief he felt he be lock up again in the flesh and bone of purun bhagat. 
every morning the fill beg bowl be lay silently in the crutch of the root outside the shrine. sometimes the priest bring it. sometimes a ladakhi trader lodge in the village and anxious to get merit trudge up the path. but more often it be the woman who have cook the meal overnight. and she would murmur hardly above her breath. speak for me before the god bhagat. speak for such a one the wife of so and so. now and then some bold child would be allow the honour and purun bhagat would hear him drop the bowl and run a fast a his little leg could carry him but the bhagat never come down to the village. it be lay out like a map at his foot. he could see the even gathering hold on the circle of the thresh floor because that be the only level grind. could see the wonderful unnamed green of the young rice the indigo blue of the indian corn the dock like patch of buckwheat and in it season the red bloom of the amaranth whose tiny seed be neither grain nor pulse make a food that can be lawfully eat by hindu in time of fast. 
when the year turn the roof of the hut be all little square of pure gold for it be on the roof that they lay out their cob of the corn to dry. hive and harvest rice sow and husk pass before his eye all embroider down there on the many side plot of field and he think of them all and wonder what they all lead to at the long last. 
even in populate india a man cannot a day sit still before the wild thing run over him a though he be a rock. and in that wilderness very soon the wild thing who know kali s shrine well come back to look at the intruder. the langur the big gray whisker monkey of the himalaya be naturally the first for they be alive with curiosity. and when they have upset the beg bowl and roll it round the floor and try their teeth on the brass handle crutch and make face at the antelope skin they decide that the human be who sit so still be harmless. at even they would leap down from the pine and beg with their hand for thing to eat and then swing off in graceful curve. they like the warmth of the fire too and huddle round it till purun bhagat have to push them aside to throw on more fuel. and in the morning a often a not he would find a furry ape share his blanket. all day long one or other of the tribe would sit by his side star out at the snow croon and look unspeakably wise and sorrowful. 
after the monkey come the barasingh that big deer which be like our red deer but strong. he wish to rub off the velvet of his horn against the cold stone of kali s statue and stamp his foot when he saw the man at the shrine. but purun bhagat never move and little by little the royal stag edge up and nuzzle his shoulder. purun bhagat slide one cool hand along the hot antler and the touch soothe the fret beast who bow his head and purun bhagat very softly rub and ravel off the velvet. afterward the barasingh bring his doe and fawn gentle thing that mumble on the holy man s blanket or would come alone at night his eye green in the fire flicker to take his share of fresh walnut. at last the musk deer the shy and almost the small of the deerlets come too her big rabbity ear erect. even brindled silent mushick nabha must need find out what the light in the shrine mean and drop out her moose like nose into purun bhagat s lap come and go with the shadow of the fire. purun bhagat call them all my brother and his low call of bhai. bhai. would draw them from the forest at noon if they be within ear shoot. the himalayan black bear moody and suspicious sona who ha the v shape white mark under his chin pass that way more than once. and since the bhagat show no fear sona show no anger but watch him and come close and beg a share of the caress and a dole of bread or wild berry. often in the still dawn when the bhagat would climb to the very crest of the pas to watch the red day walk along the peak of the snow he would find sona shuffle and grunt at his heel thrust a curious fore paw under fall trunk and bring it away with a whoof of impatience. or his early step would wake sona where he lay curl up and the great brute rise erect would think to fight till he hear the bhagat s voice and know his best friend. 
nearly all hermit and holy men who live apart from the big city have the reputation of be able to work miracle with the wild thing but all the miracle lie in keep still in never make a hasty movement and for a long time at least in never look directly at a visitor. the villager saw the outline of the barasingh stalk like a shadow through the dark forest behind the shrine. saw the minaul the himalayan pheasant blaze in her best colour before kali s statue. and the langur on their haunch inside play with the walnut shell. some of the child too have hear sona sing to himself bear fashion behind the fall rock and the bhagat s reputation a miracle worker stand firm. 
yet nothing be farther from his mind than miracle. he believe that all thing be one big miracle and when a man know that much he know something to go upon. he know for a certainty that there be nothing great and nothing little in this world. and day and night he strive to think out his way into the heart of thing back to the place whence his soul have come. 
so think his untrimmed hair fell down about his shoulder the stone slab at the side of the antelope skin be dent into a little hole by the foot of his brass handle crutch and the place between the tree trunk where the beg bowl rest day after day sink and wear into a hollow almost a smooth a the brown shell itself. and each beast know his exact place at the fire. the field change their colour with the season. the thresh floor fill and empty and fill again and again. and again and again when winter come the langur frisk among the branch feather with light snow till the mother monkey bring their sad eye little baby up from the warm valley with the spring. there be few change in the village. the priest be old and many of the little child who use to come with the beg dish send their own child now. and when you ask of the villager how long their holy man have live in kali s shrine at the head of the pas they answer always. 
then come such summer rain a have not be know in the hill for many season. through three good month the valley be wrap in cloud and soak mist steady unrelenting downfall break off into thunder shower after thunder shower. kali s shrine stand above the cloud for the most part and there be a whole month in which the bhagat never catch a glimpse of his village. it be pack away under a white floor of cloud that sway and shift and roll on itself and bulge upward but never break from it pier the stream flank of the valley. 
all that time he hear nothing but the sound of a million little water overhead from the tree and underfoot along the grind soak through the pine needle drip from the tongue of draggle fern and spout in newly tear muddy channel down the slope. then the sun come out and draw forth the good incense of the deodar and the rhododendron and that far off clean smell which the hill people call the smell of the snow. the hot sunshine last for a week and then the rain gather together for their last downpour and the water fell in sheet that flay off the skin of the grind and leap back in mud. purun bhagat heap his fire high that night for he be sure his brother would need warmth. but never a beast come to the shrine though he call and call till he drop asleep wonder what have happen in the wood. 
it be in the black heart of the night the rain drum like a thousand drum that he be rouse by a pluck at his blanket and stretch out felt the little hand of a langur. it be good here than in the tree he say sleepily loosen a fold of blanket. take it and be warm. the monkey catch his hand and pull hard. be it food then. say purun bhagat. wait awhile and i will prepare some. a he kneel to throw fuel on the fire the langur run to the door of the shrine croon and run back again pluck at the man s knee. 
what be it. what be thy trouble brother. say purun bhagat for the langur s eye be full of thing that he could not tell. unless one of thy caste be in a trap and none set trap here i will not go into that weather. look brother even the barasingh come for shelter. 
the deer s antler clash a he stride into the shrine clash against the grin statue of kali. he lower them in purun bhagat s direction and stamp uneasily hiss through his half shut nostril. 
hai. hai. hai. say the bhagat snap his finger be this payment for a night s lodge. but the deer push him toward the door and a he do so purun bhagat hear the sound of something open with a sigh and saw two slab of the floor draw away from each other while the sticky earth below smack it lip. 
now i see say purun bhagat. no blame to my brother that they do not sit by the fire to night. the mountain be fall. and yet why should i go. his eye fell on the empty beg bowl and his face change. they have give me good food daily since since i come and if i be not swift to morrow there will not be one mouth in the valley. indeed i must go and warn them below. back there brother. let me get to the fire. 
the barasingh back unwillingly a purun bhagat drive a pine torch deep into the flame twirl it till it be well light. ah. ye come to warn me he say rise. good than that we shall do. good than that. out now and lend me thy neck brother for i have but two foot. 
he clutch the bristle wither of the barasingh with his right hand hold the torch away with his leave and step out of the shrine into the desperate night. there be no breath of wind but the rain nearly drown the flare a the great deer hurry down the slope slide on his haunch. a soon a they be clear of the forest more of the bhagat s brother join them. he hear though he could not see the langur press about him and behind them the uhh. uhh. of sona. the rain mat his long white hair into rope. the water splash beneath his bare foot and his yellow robe cling to his frail old body but he step down steadily lean against the barasingh. he be no long a holy man but sir purun das k. c. i. e. prime minister of no small state a man accustom to command go out to save life. down the steep plashy path they pour all together the bhagat and his brother down and down till the deer s foot click and stumble on the wall of a thresh floor and he snort because he smelt man. now they be at the head of the one crook village street and the bhagat beat with his crutch on the bar window of the blacksmith s house a his torch blaze up in the shelter of the eaves. up and out. cry purun bhagat. and he do not know his own voice for it be year since he have speak aloud to a man. the hill fall. the hill be fall. up and out oh you within. 
it be our bhagat say the blacksmith s wife. he stand among his beast. gather the little one and give the call. 
it run from house to house while the beast cramp in the narrow way surge and huddle round the bhagat and sona puff impatiently. 
the people hurry into the street they be no more than seventy soul all tell and in the glare of the torch they saw their bhagat hold back the terrify barasingh while the monkey pluck piteously at his skirt and sona sit on his haunch and roar. 
across the valley and up the next hill. shout purun bhagat. leave none behind. we follow. 
then the people run a only hill folk can run for they know that in a landslip you must climb for the high grind across the valley. they flee splash through the little river at the bottom and pant up the terrace field on the far side while the bhagat and his brother follow. up and up the opposite mountain they climb call to each other by name the roll call of the village and at their heel toil the big barasingh weight by the fail strength of purun bhagat. at last the deer stop in the shadow of a deep pinewood five hundred foot up the hillside. his instinct that have warn him of the come slide tell him he would he safe here. 
purun bhagat drop faint by his side for the chill of the rain and that fierce climb be kill him. but first he call to the scatter torch ahead stay and count your number. then whisper to the deer a he saw the light gather in a cluster. stay with me brother. stay till i go. 
there be a sigh in the air that grow to a mutter and a mutter that grow to a roar and a roar that pass all sense of hear and the hillside on which the villager stand be hit in the darkness and rock to the blow. then a note a steady deep and true a the deep c of the organ drown everything for perhaps five minute while the very root of the pine quiver to it. it die away and the sound of the rain fall on mile of hard grind and grass change to the muffle drum of water on soft earth. that tell it own tale. 
never a villager not even the priest be bold enough to speak to the bhagat who have save their life. they crouch under the pine and wait till the day. when it come they look across the valley and saw that what have be forest and terrace field and track thread graze grind be one raw red fan shape smear with a few tree fling head down on the scarp. that red run high up the hill of their refuge dam back the little river which have begin to spread into a brick colour lake. of the village of the road to the shrine of the shrine itself and the forest behind there be no trace. for one mile in width and two thousand foot in sheer depth the mountain side have come away bodily plan clean from head to heel. 
and the villager one by one creep through the wood to pray before their bhagat. they saw the barasingh stand over him who flee when they come near and they hear the langur wail in the branch and sona moan up the hill. but their bhagat be dead sit cross legged his back against a tree his crutch under his armpit and his face turn to the north east. 
the priest say. behold a miracle after a miracle for in this very attitude must all sunnyasis be bury. therefore where he now be we will build the temple to our holy man. 
they build the temple before a year be end a little stone and earth shrine and they call the hill the bhagat s hill and they worship there with light and flower and offering to this day. but they do not know that the saint of their worship be the late sir purun das k. c. i. e. d. c. l. ph. d. etc. once prime minister of the progressive and enlighten state of mohiniwala and honorary or correspond member of more learn and scientific society than will ever do any good in this world or the next. 
a song of kabir. 
oh light be the world that he weigh in his hand. oh heavy the tale of his fief and his land. he ha go from the guddee and put on the shroud and depart in guise of bairagi avow. 
now the white road to delhi be mat for his foot the sal and the kikar must guard him from heat. his home be the camp and the waste and the crowd he be seek the way a bairagi avow. 
he ha look upon man and his eyeball be clear. there be one. there be one and but one saith kabir. the red mist of do ha thin to a cloud he ha take the path for bairagi avow. 
to learn and discern of his brother the clod of his brother the brute and his brother the god. he ha go from the council and put on the shroud. can ye hear. saith kabir. a bairagi avow. 
let in the jungle. 
veil them cover them wall them round blossom and creeper and weed let u forget the sight and the sound the smell and the touch of the breed. 
fat black ash by the altar stone here be the white foot rain and the doe bring forth in the field unsown and none shall affright them again. and the blind wall crumble unknown o erthrown and none shall inhabit again. 
you will remember that after mowgli have pin shere khan s hide to the council rock he tell a many a be leave of the seeonee pack that henceforward he would hunt in the jungle alone. and the four child of mother and father wolf say that they would hunt with him. but it be not easy to change one s life all in a minute particularly in the jungle. the first thing mowgli do when the disorderly pack have slink off be to go to the home cave and sleep for a day and a night. then he tell mother wolf and father wolf a much a they could understand of his adventure among men. and when he make the morning sun flicker up and down the blade of his skin knife the same he have skin shere khan with they say he have learn something. then akela and gray brother have to explain their share of the great buffalo drive in the ravine and baloo toil up the hill to hear all about it and bagheera scratch himself all over with pure delight at the way in which mowgli have manage his war. 
it be long after sunrise but no one dream of go to sleep and from time to time during the talk mother wolf would throw up her head and sniff a deep snuff of satisfaction a the wind bring her the smell of the tiger skin on the council rock. 
but for akela and gray brother here mowgli say at the end i could have do nothing. oh mother mother. if thou hadst see the black herd bull pour down the ravine or hurry through the gate when the man pack fling stone at me. 
i be glad i do not see that last say mother wolf stiffly. it be not my custom to suffer my cub to be drive to and fro like jackal. i would have take a price from the man pack. but i would have spar the woman who give thee the milk. yes i would have spar her alone. 
peace peace raksha. say father wolf lazily. our frog ha come back again so wise that his own father must lick his foot. and what be a cut more or le on the head. leave men alone. baloo and bagheera both echo. leave men alone. 
mowgli his head on mother wolf s side smile contentedly and say that for his own part he never wish to see or hear or smell man again. 
but what say akela cock one ear but what if men do not leave thee alone little brother. 
we be five say gray brother look round at the company and snap his jaw on the last word. 
we also might attend to that hunt say bagheera with a little switch switch of his tail look at baloo. but why think of men now akela. 
for this reason the lone wolf answer. when that yellow chief s hide be hang up on the rock i go back along our trail to the village step in my track turn aside and lie down to make a mix trail in case one should follow u. but when i have foul the trail so that i myself hardly know it again mang the bat come hawk between the tree and hang up above me. say mang the village of the man pack where they cast out the man cub hum like a hornet s nest. 
it be a big stone that i throw chuckle mowgli who have often amuse himself by throw ripe paw paw into a hornet s nest and race off to the near pool before the hornet catch him. 
i ask of mang what he have see. he say that the red flower blossom at the gate of the village and men sit about it carry gun. now i know for i have good cause akela look down at the old dry scar on his flank and side that men do not carry gun for pleasure. presently little brother a man with a gun follow our trail if indeed he be not already on it. 
but why should he. men have cast me out. what more do they need. say mowgli angrily. 
thou art a man little brother akela return. it be not for u the free hunter to tell thee what thy brother do or why. 
he have just time to snatch up his paw a the skin knife cut deep into the grind below. mowgli strike quick than an average human eye could follow but akela be a wolf. and even a dog who be very far remove from the wild wolf his ancestor can be wake out of deep sleep by a cart wheel touch his flank and can spring away unharmed before that wheel come on. 
another time mowgli say quietly return the knife to it sheath speak of the man pack and of mowgli in two breath not one. 
phff. that be a sharp tooth say akela snuff at the blade s cut in the earth but live with the man pack ha spoil thine eye little brother. i could have kill a buck while thou wast strike. 
bagheera spring to his foot thrust up his head a far a he could sniff and stiffen through every curve in his body. gray brother follow his example quickly keep a little to his leave to get the wind that be blow from the right while akela bound fifty yard up wind and half crouch stiffen too. mowgli look on enviously. he could smell thing a very few human being could but he have never reach the hair trigger like sensitiveness of a jungle nose. and his three month in the smoky village have set him back sadly. however he dampen his finger rub it on his nose and stand erect to catch the upper scent which though it be the faint be the true. 
man. akela growl drop on his haunch. 
buldeo. say mowgli sit down. he follow our trail and yonder be the sunlight on his gun. look. 
it be no more than a splash of sunlight for a fraction of a second on the brass clamp of the old tower musket but nothing in the jungle wink with just that flash except when the cloud race over the sky. then a piece of mica or a little pool or even a highly polish leaf will flash like a heliograph. but that day be cloudless and still. 
i know men would follow say akela triumphantly. not for nothing have i lead the pack. 
the four cub say nothing but run down hill on their belly melt into the thorn and under brush a a mole melt into a lawn. 
where go ye and without word. mowgli call. 
h sh. we roll his skull here before mid day. gray brother answer. 
back. back and wait. man doe not eat man. mowgli shriek. 
who be a wolf but now. who drive the knife at me for think he might be man. say akela a the four wolf turn back sullenly and drop to heel. 
be i to give reason for all i choose to do. say mowgli furiously. 
that be man. there speak man. bagheera mutter under his whisker. even so do men talk round the king s cage at oodeypore. we of the jungle know that man be wise of all. if we trust our ear we should know that of all thing he be most foolish. raise his voice he add the man cub be right in this. men hunt in pack. to kill one unless we know what the others will do be bad hunt. come let u see what this man mean toward u. 
we will not come gray brother growl. hunt alone little brother. we know our own mind. the skull would have be ready to bring by now. 
mowgli have be look from one to the other of his friend his chest heave and his eye full of tear. he stride forward to the wolf and drop on one knee say. do i not know my mind. look at me. 
they look uneasily and when their eye wander he call them back again and again till their hair stand up all over their body and they tremble in every limb while mowgli star and star. 
now say he of u five which be leader. 
thou art leader little brother say gray brother and he lick mowgli s foot. 
follow then say mowgli and the four follow at his heel with their tail between their leg. 
this come of live with the man pack say bagheera slip down after them. there be more in the jungle now than jungle law baloo. 
the old bear say nothing but he think many thing. 
mowgli cut across noiselessly through the jungle at right angle to buldeo s path till part the undergrowth he saw the old man his musket on his shoulder run up the trail of overnight at a dog trot. 
you will remember that mowgli have leave the village with the heavy weight of shere khan s raw hide on his shoulder while akela and gray brother trot behind so that the triple trail be very clearly mark. presently buldeo come to where akela a you know have go back and mix it all up. then he sit down and cough and grunt and make little cast round and about into the jungle to pick it up again and all the time he could have throw a stone over those who be watch him. no one can be so silent a a wolf when he doe not care to be hear. and mowgli though the wolf think he move very clumsily could come and go like a shadow. they ring the old man a a school of porpoise ring a steamer at full speed and a they ring him they talk unconcernedly for their speech begin below the low end of the scale that untrained human being can hear. [the other end be bound by the high squeak of mang the bat which very many people cannot catch at all. from that note all the bird and bat and insect talk take on. ]. 
this be good than any kill say gray brother a buldeo stoop and peer and puff. he look like a lose pig in the jungle by the river. what doe he say. buldeo be mutter savagely. 
mowgli translate. he say that pack of wolf must have dance round me. he say that he never saw such a trail in his life. he say he be tire. 
he will be rest before he pick it up again say bagheera coolly a he slip round a tree trunk in the game of blindman s buff that they be play. now what doe the lean thing do. 
eat or blow smoke out of his mouth. men always play with their mouth say mowgli. and the silent trailer saw the old man fill and light and puff at a water pipe and they take good note of the smell of the tobacco so a to be sure of buldeo in the dark night if necessary. 
then a little knot of charcoal burner come down the path and naturally halt to speak to buldeo whose fame a a hunter reach for at least twenty mile round. they all sit down and smoke and bagheera and the others come up and watch while buldeo begin to tell the story of mowgli the devil child from one end to another with addition and invention. how he himself have really kill shere khan. and how mowgli have turn himself into a wolf and fight with him all the afternoon and change into a boy again and bewitch buldeo s rifle so that the bullet turn the corner when he point it at mowgli and kill one of buldeo s own buffalo. and how the village know him to be the brave hunter in seeonee have send him out to kill this devil child. but meantime the village have get hold of messua and her husband who be undoubtedly the father and mother of this devil child and have barricade them in their own hut and presently would torture them to make them confess they be witch and wizard and then they would be burn to death. 
when. say the charcoal burner because they would very much like to be present at the ceremony. 
buldeo say that nothing would be do till he return because the village wish him to kill the jungle boy first. after that they would dispose of messua and her husband and divide their land and buffalo among the village. messua s husband have some remarkably fine buffalo too. it be an excellent thing to destroy wizard buldeo think. and people who entertain wolf child out of the jungle be clearly the bad kind of witch. 
but say the charcoal burner what would happen if the english hear of it. the english they have hear be a perfectly mad people who would not let honest farmer kill witch in peace. 
why say buldeo the head man of the village would report that messua and her husband have die of snake bite. that be all arrange and the only thing now be to kill the wolf child. they do not happen to have see anything of such a creature. 
the charcoal burner look round cautiously and thank their star they have not. but they have no doubt that so brave a man a buldeo would find him if any one could. the sun be get rather low and they have an idea that they would push on to buldeo s village and see that wicked witch. buldeo say that though it be his duty to kill the devil child he could not think of let a party of unarm men go through the jungle which might produce the wolf demon at any minute without his escort. he therefore would accompany them and if the sorcerer s child appear well he would show them how the best hunter in seeonee deal with such thing. the brahmin he say have give him a charm against the creature that make everything perfectly safe. 
what say he. what say he. what say he. the wolf repeat every few minute. and mowgli translate until he come to the witch part of the story which be a little beyond him and then he say that the man and woman who have be so kind to him be trap. 
doe man trap man. say bagheera. 
so he say. i cannot understand the talk. they be all mad together. what have messua and her man to do with me that they should be put in a trap. and what be all this talk about the red flower. i must look to this. whatever they would do to messua they will not do till buldeo return. and so mowgli think hard with his finger play round the haft of the skin knife while buldeo and the charcoal burner go off very valiantly in single file. 
i go hot foot back to the man pack mowgli say at last. 
and those. say gray brother look hungrily after the brown back of the charcoal burner. 
sing them home say mowgli with a grin. i do not wish them to be at the village gate till it be dark. can ye hold them. 
gray brother bar his white teeth in contempt. we can head them round and round in circle like tether goat if i know man. 
that i do not need. sing to them a little l they be lonely on the road and gray brother the song need not be of the sweet. go with them bagheera and help make that song. when night be shut down meet me by the village gray brother know the place. 
it be no light hunt to work for a man cub. when shall i sleep. say bagheera yawn though his eye show that he be delight with the amusement. me to sing to naked men. but let u try. 
he lower his head so that the sound would travel and cry a long long good hunt a midnight call in the afternoon which be quite awful enough to begin with. mowgli hear it rumble and rise and fall and die off in a creepy sort of whine behind him and laugh to himself a he run through the jungle. he could see the charcoal burner huddle in a knot. old buldeo s gun barrel wave like a banana leaf to every point of the compass at once. then gray brother give the ya la hi. yalaha. call for the buck drive when the pack drive the nilghai the big blue cow before them and it seem to come from the very end of the earth near and near and near till it end in a shriek snap off short. the other three answer till even mowgli could have vow that the full pack be in full cry and then they all break into the magnificent morning song in the jungle with every turn and flourish and grace note that a deep mouth wolf of the pack know. this be a rough render of the song but you must imagine what it sound like when it break the afternoon hush of the jungle. 
one moment past our body cast no shadow on the plain. now clear and black they stride our track and we run home again. in morning hush each rock and bush stand hard and high and raw. then give the call. good rest to all that keep the jungle law. 
now horn and pelt our people melt in covert to abide. now crouch and still to cave and hill our jungle baron glide. now stark and plain man s ox strain that draw the new yoke plough. now strip and dread the dawn be red above the light talao. 
ho. get to lair. the sun s aflare behind the breathe grass. and crack through the young bamboo the warn whisper pas. by day make strange the wood we range with blink eye we scan. while down the sky the wild duck cry the day the day to man. 
the dew be dry that drench our hide or wash about our way. and where we drink the puddle bank be crisp into clay. the traitor dark give up each mark of stretch or hood claw. then hear the call. good rest to all that keep the jungle law. 
but no translation can give the effect of it or the yelp scorn the four throw into every word of it a they hear the tree crash when the men hastily climb up into the branch and buldeo begin repeat incantation and charm. then they lay down and sleep for like all who live by their own exertion they be of a methodical cast of mind. and no one can work well without sleep. 
meantime mowgli be put the mile behind him nine to the hour swing on delight to find himself so fit after all his cramp month among men. the one idea in his head be to get messua and her husband out of the trap whatever it be. for he have a natural mistrust of trap. late on he promise himself he would pay his debt to the village at large. 
it be at twilight when he saw the well remember graze ground and the dhak tree where gray brother have wait for him on the morning that he kill shere khan. angry a he be at the whole breed and community of man something jump up in his throat and make him catch his breath when he look at the village roof. he notice that every one have come in from the field unusually early and that instead of get to their even cook they gather in a crowd under the village tree and chatter and shout. 
men must always be make trap for men or they be not content say mowgli. last night it be mowgli but that night seem many rain ago. to night it be messua and her man. to morrow and for very many night after it will be mowgli s turn again. 
he creep along outside the wall till he come to messua s hut and look through the window into the room. there lay messua gag and bind hand and foot breathe hard and groan. her husband be tie to the gaily paint bedstead. the door of the hut that open into the street be shut fast and three or four people be sit with their back to it. 
mowgli know the manner and custom of the villager very fairly. he argue that so long a they could eat and talk and smoke they would not do anything else. but a soon a they have feed they would begin to be dangerous. buldeo would be come in before long and if his escort have do it duty buldeo would have a very interest tale to tell. so he go in through the window and stoop over the man and the woman cut their thong pull out the gag and look round the hut for some milk. 
messua be half wild with pain and fear. she have be beat and stone all the morning. and mowgli put his hand over her mouth just in time to stop a scream. her husband be only bewilder and angry and sit pick dust and thing out of his tear beard. 
i know i know he would come messua sob at last. now do i know that he be my son. and she hug mowgli to her heart. up to that time mowgli have be perfectly steady but now he begin to tremble all over and that surprise him immensely. 
why be these thong. why have they tie thee. he ask after a pause. 
to be put to the death for make a son of thee what else. say the man sullenly. look. i bleed. 
messua say nothing but it be at her wound that mowgli look and they hear him grit his teeth when he saw the blood. 
whose work be this. say he. there be a price to pay. 
the work of all the village. i be too rich. i have too many cattle. therefore she and i be witch because we give thee shelter. 
i do not understand. let messua tell the tale. 
i give thee milk nathoo. dost thou remember. messua say timidly. because thou wast my son whom the tiger take and because i love thee very dearly. they say that i be thy mother the mother of a devil and therefore worthy of death. 
and what be a devil. say mowgli. death i have see. 
the man look up gloomily but messua laugh. see. she say to her husband i know i say that he be no sorcerer. he be my son my son. 
son or sorcerer what good will that do u. the man answer. we be a dead already. 
yonder be the road to the jungle mowgli point through the window. your hand and foot be free. go now. 
we do not know the jungle my son a a thou knowest messua begin. i do not think that i could walk far. 
and the men and woman would be upon our back and drag u here again say the husband. 
h m. say mowgli and he tickle the palm of his hand with the tip of his skin knife. i have no wish to do harm to any one of this village yet. but i do not think they will stay thee. in a little while they will have much else to think upon. ah. he lift his head and listen to shout and trample outside. so they have let buldeo come home at last. 
he be send out this morning to kill thee messua cry. didst thou meet him. 
yes we i meet him. he ha a tale to tell and while he be tell it there be time to do much. but first i will learn what they mean. think where ye would go and tell me when i come back. 
he bound through the window and run along again outside the wall of the village till he come within ear shoot of the crowd round the peepul tree. buldeo be lie on the grind cough and groan and every one be ask him question. his hair have fall about his shoulder. his hand and leg be skin from climb up tree and he could hardly speak but he felt the importance of his position keenly. from time to time he say something about devil and sing devil and magic enchantment just to give the crowd a taste of what be come. then he call for water. 
bah. say mowgli. chatter chatter. talk talk. men be blood brother of the bandar log. now he must wash his mouth with water. now he must blow smoke. and when all that be do he ha still his story to tell. they be very wise people men. they will leave no one to guard messua till their ear be stuff with buldeo s tale. and i grow a lazy a they. 
he shake himself and glide back to the hut. just a he be at the window he felt a touch on his foot. 
mother say he for he know that tongue well what dost thou here. 
i hear my child sing through the wood and i follow the one i love best. little frog i have a desire to see that woman who give thee milk say mother wolf all wet with the dew. 
they have bind and mean to kill her. i have cut those tie and she go with her man through the jungle. 
i also will follow. i be old but not yet toothless. mother wolf rear herself up on end and look through the window into the dark of the hut. 
in a minute she drop noiselessly and all she say be. i give thee thy first milk. but bagheera speak truth. man go to man at the last. 
maybe say mowgli with a very unpleasant look on his face. but to night i be very far from that trail. wait here but do not let her see. 
thou wast never afraid of me little frog say mother wolf back into the high grass and blot herself out a she know how. 
and now say mowgli cheerfully a he swing into the hut again they be all sit round buldeo who be say that which do not happen. when his talk be finish they say they will assuredly come here with the red with fire and burn you both. and then. 
i have speak to my man say messua. khanhiwara be thirty mile from here but at khanhiwara we may find the english. 
and what pack be they. say mowgli. 
i do not know. they be white and it be say that they govern all the land and do not suffer people to burn or beat each other without witness. if we can get thither to night we live. otherwise we die. 
live then. no man pass the gate to night. but what doe he do. messua s husband be on his hand and knee dig up the earth in one corner of the hut. 
it be his little money say messua. we can take nothing else. 
ah yes. the stuff that pass from hand to hand and never grow warm. do they need it outside this place also. say mowgli. 
the man star angrily. he be a fool and no devil he mutter. with the money i can buy a horse. we be too bruise to walk far and the village will follow u in an hour. 
i say they will not follow till i choose. but a horse be well think of for messua be tire. her husband stand up and knot the last of the rupee into his waist cloth. mowgli help messua through the window and the cool night air revive her but the jungle in the starlight look very dark and terrible. 
ye know the trail to khanhiwara. mowgli whisper. 
they nod. 
good. remember now not to be afraid. and there be no need to go quickly. only only there may be some small sing in the jungle behind you and before. 
think you we would have risk a night in the jungle through anything le than the fear of burn. it be good to be kill by beast than by men say messua s husband. but messua look at mowgli and smile. 
i say mowgli go on just a though he be baloo repeat an old jungle law for the hundredth time to a foolish cub i say that not a tooth in the jungle be bar against you. not a foot in the jungle be lift against you. neither man nor beast shall stay you till you come within eye shoot of khanhiwara. there will be a watch about you. he turn quickly to messua say he doe not believe but thou wilt believe. 
ay surely my son. man ghost or wolf of the jungle i believe. 
he will be afraid when he hear my people sing. thou wilt know and understand. go now and slowly for there be no need of any haste. the gate be shut. 
messua fling herself sob at mowgli s foot but he lift her very quickly with a shiver. then she hang about his neck and call him every name of bless she could think of but her husband look enviously across his field and say. if we reach khanhiwara and i get the ear of the english i will bring such a lawsuit against the brahmin and old buldeo and the others a shall eat the village to the bone. they shall pay me twice over for my crop untilled and my buffalo unfed. i will have a great justice. 
mowgli laugh. i do not know what justice be but come next rain. and see what be leave. 
they go off toward the jungle and mother wolf leap from her place of hide. 
follow. say mowgli. and look to it that all the jungle know these two be safe. give tongue a little. i would call bagheera. 
the long low howl rise and fell and mowgli saw messua s husband flinch and turn half mind to run back to the hut. 
go on mowgli call cheerfully. i say there might be sing. that call will follow up to khanhiwara. it be favour of the jungle. 
messua urge her husband forward and the darkness shut down on them and mother wolf a bagheera rise up almost under mowgli s foot tremble with delight of the night that drive the jungle people wild. 
i be ashamed of thy brother he say purr. what. do they not sing sweetly to buldeo. say mowgli. 
too well. too well. they make even me forget my pride and by the break lock that free me i go sing through the jungle a though i be out woo in the spring. didst thou not hear u. 
i have other game afoot. ask buldeo if he like the song. but where be the four. i do not wish one of the man pack to leave the gate to night. 
what need of the four then. say bagheera shift from foot to foot his eye ablaze and purr loud than ever. i can hold them little brother. be it kill at last. the sing and the sight of the men climb up the tree have make me very ready. who be man that we should care for him the naked brown digger the hairless and toothless the eater of earth. i have follow him all day at noon in the white sunlight. i herd him a the wolf herd buck. i be bagheera. bagheera. bagheera. a i dance with my shadow so dance i with those men. look. the great panther leap a a kitten leap at a dead leaf whirl overhead strike leave and right into the empty air that sing under the stroke land noiselessly and leap again and again while the half purr half growl gather head a steam rumble in a boiler. i be bagheera in the jungle in the night and my strength be in me. who shall stay my stroke. man cub with one blow of my paw i could beat thy head flat a a dead frog in the summer. 
strike then. say mowgli in the dialect of the village not the talk of the jungle and the human word bring bagheera to a full stop fling back on haunch that quiver under him his head just at the level of mowgli s. once more mowgli star a he have star at the rebellious cub full into the beryl green eye till the red glare behind their green go out like the light of a lighthouse shut off twenty mile across the sea. till the eye drop and the big head with them drop low and low and the red rasp of a tongue grate on mowgli s instep. 
brother brother brother. the boy whisper stroke steadily and lightly from the neck along the heave back. be still be still. it be the fault of the night and no fault of thine. 
it be the smell of the night say bagheera penitently. this air cry aloud to me. but how dost thou know. 
of course the air round an indian village be full of all kind of smell and to any creature who doe nearly all his think through his nose smell be a madden a music and drug be to human being. mowgli gentle the panther for a few minute long and he lay down like a cat before a fire his paw tuck under his breast and his eye half shut. 
thou art of the jungle and not of the jungle he say at last. and i be only a black panther. but i love thee little brother. 
they be very long at their talk under the tree mowgli say without notice the last sentence. buldeo must have tell many tale. they should come soon to drag the woman and her man out of the trap and put them into the red flower. they will find that trap spring. ho. ho. 
nay listen say bagheera. the fever be out of my blood now. let them find me there. few would leave their house after meet me. it be not the first time i have be in a cage. and i do not think they will tie me with cord. 
be wise then say mowgli laugh. for he be begin to feel a reckless a the panther who have glide into the hut. 
pah. bagheera grunt. this place be rank with man but here be just such a bed a they give me to lie upon in the king s cage at oodeypore. now i lie down. mowgli hear the string of the cot crack under the great brute s weight. by the break lock that free me they will think they have catch big game. come and sit beside me little brother. we will give them good hunt together. 
no. i have another think in my stomach. the man pack shall not know what share i have in the sport. make thine own hunt. i do not wish to see them. 
be it so say bagheera. ah now they come. 
the conference under the peepul tree have be grow noisy and noisy at the far end of the village. it break in wild yell and a rush up the street of men and woman wave club and bamboo and sickle and knife. buldeo and the brahmin be at the head of it but the mob be close at their heel and they cry the witch and the wizard. let u see if hot coin will make them confess. burn the hut over their head. we will teach them to shelter wolf devil. nay beat them first. torch. more torch. buldeo heat the gun barrel. 
here be some little difficulty with the catch of the door. it have be very firmly fasten but the crowd tear it away bodily and the light of the torch stream into the room where stretch at full length on the bed his paw cross and lightly hang down over one end black a the pit and terrible a a demon be bagheera. there be one half minute of desperate silence a the front rank of the crowd claw and tear their way back from the threshold and in that minute bagheera raise his head and yawn elaborately carefully and ostentatiously a he would yawn when he wish to insult an equal. the fringe lip draw back and up. the red tongue curl. the low jaw drop and drop till you could see half way down the hot gullet. and the gigantic dog teeth stand clear to the pit of the gum till they ring together upper and under with the snick of steel face ward shoot home round the edge of a safe. next instant the street be empty. bagheera have leap back through the window and stand at mowgli s side while a yell scream torrent scramble and tumble one over another in their panic haste to get to their own hut. 
they will not stir till day come say bagheera quietly. and now. 
the silence of the afternoon sleep seem to have overtake the village. but a they listen they could hear the sound of heavy grain box be drag over earthen floor and set down against door. bagheera be quite right. the village would not stir till daylight. mowgli sit still and think and his face grow dark and dark. 
what have i do. say bagheera at last come to his foot fawn. 
nothing but great good. watch them now till the day. i sleep. mowgli run off into the jungle and drop like a dead man across a rock and sleep and sleep the day round and the night back again. 
when he wake bagheera be at his side and there be a newly kill buck at his foot. bagheera watch curiously while mowgli go to work with his skin knife eat and drink and turn over with his chin in his hand. 
the man and the woman be come safe within eye shoot of khanhiwara bagheera say. thy lair mother send the word back by chil the kite. they find a horse before midnight of the night they be free and go very quickly. be not that well. 
that be well say mowgli. 
and thy man pack in the village do not stir till the sun be high this morning. then they eat their food and run back quickly to their house. 
do they by chance see thee. 
it may have be. i be roll in the dust before the gate at dawn and i may have make also some small song to myself. now little brother there be nothing more to do. come hunt with me and baloo. he ha new hive that he wish to show and we all desire thee back again a of old. take off that look which make even me afraid. the man and woman will not be put into the red flower and all go well in the jungle. be it not true. let u forget the man pack. 
they shall be forget in a little while. where doe hathi fee to night. 
where he choose. who can answer for the silent one. but why. what be there hathi can do which we cannot. 
bid him and his three son come here to me. 
but indeed and truly little brother it be not it be not seemly to say come and go to hathi. remember he be the master of the jungle and before the man pack change the look on thy face he teach thee the master word of the jungle. 
that be all one. i have a master word for him now. bid him come to mowgli the frog. and if he doe not hear at first bid him come because of the sack of the field of bhurtpore. 
the sack of the field of bhurtpore bagheera repeat two or three time to make sure. i go. hathi can but be angry at the bad and i would give a moon s hunt to hear a master word that compel the silent one. 
he go away leave mowgli stab furiously with his skin knife into the earth. mowgli have never see human blood in his life before till he have see and what mean much more to him smell messua s blood on the thong that bind her. and messua have be kind to him and so far a he know anything about love he love messua a completely a he hat the rest of mankind. but deeply a he loathe them their talk their cruelty and their cowardice not for anything the jungle have to offer could he bring himself to take a human life and have that terrible scent of blood back again in his nostril. his plan be simple but much more thorough. and he laugh to himself when he think that it be one of old buldeo s tale tell under the peepul tree in the even that have put the idea into his head. 
it be a master word bagheera whisper in his ear. they be feed by the river and they obey a though they be bullock. look where they come now. 
hathi and his three son have arrive in their usual way without a sound. the mud of the river be still fresh on their flank and hathi be thoughtfully chew the green stem of a young plantain tree that he have gouge up with his tusk. but every line in his vast body show to bagheera who could see thing when he come across them that it be not the master of the jungle speak to a man cub but one who be afraid come before one who be not. his three son roll side by side behind their father. 
mowgli hardly lift his head a hathi give him good hunt. he keep him swing and rock and shift from one foot to another for a long time before he speak. and when he open his mouth it be to bagheera not to the elephant. 
i will tell a tale that be tell to me by the hunter ye hunt to day say mowgli. it concern an elephant old and wise who fell into a trap and the sharpen stake in the pit scar him from a little above his heel to the crest of his shoulder leave a white mark. mowgli throw out his hand and a hathi wheel the moonlight show a long white scar on his slaty side a though he have be strike with a red hot whip. men come to take him from the trap mowgli continue but he break his rope for he be strong and go away till his wind be heal. then come he angry by night to the field of those hunter. and i remember now that he have three son. these thing happen many many rain ago and very far away among the field of bhurtpore. what come to those field at the next reap hathi. 
they be reap by me and by my three son say hathi. 
and to the plough that follow the reap. say mowgli. 
there be no plough say hathi. 
and to the men that live by the green crop on the grind. say mowgli. 
they go away. 
and to the hut in which the men sleep. say mowgli. 
we tear the roof to piece and the jungle swallow up the wall say hathi. 
and what more. say mowgli. 
a much good grind a i can walk over in two night from the east to the west and from the north to the south a much a i can walk over in three night the jungle take. we let in the jungle upon five village. and in those village and in their land the graze grind and the soft crop ground there be not one man to day who take his food from the grind. that be the sack of the field of bhurtpore which i and my three son do. and now i ask man cub how the news of it come to thee. say hathi. 
a man tell me and now i see even buldeo can speak truth. it be well do hathi with the white mark. but the second time it shall be do good for the reason that there be a man to direct. thou knowest the village of the man pack that cast me out. they be idle senseless and cruel. they play with their mouth and they do not kill the weak for food but for sport. when they be full feed they would throw their own breed into the red flower. this i have see. it be not well that they should live here any more. i hate them. 
kill then say the young of hathi s three son pick up a tuft of grass dust it against his fore leg and throw it away while his little red eye glance furtively from side to side. 
what good be white bone to me. mowgli answer angrily. be i the cub of a wolf to play in the sun with a raw head. i have kill shere khan and his hide rot on the council rock. but but i do not know whither shere khan be go and my stomach be still empty. now i will take that which i can see and touch. let in the jungle upon that village hathi. 
bagheera shiver and cower down. he could understand if the bad come to the bad a quick rush down the village street and a right and leave blow into a crowd or a crafty kill of men a they plough in the twilight. but this scheme for deliberately blot out an entire village from the eye of man and beast frighten him. now he saw why mowgli have send for hathi. no one but the long live elephant could plan and carry through such a war. 
let them run a the men run from the field of bhurtpore till we have the rain water for the only plough and the noise of the rain on the thick leaf for the patter of their spindle till bagheera and i lair in the house of the brahmin and the buck drink at the tank behind the temple. let in the jungle hathi. 
but i but we have no quarrel with them and it need the red rage of great pain ere we tear down the place where men sleep say hathi doubtfully. 
be ye the only eater of grass in the jungle. drive in your people. let the deer and the pig and the nilghai look to it. ye need never show a hand s breadth of hide till the field be naked. let in the jungle hathi. 
there will be no kill. my tusk be red at the sack of the field of bhurtpore and i would not wake that smell again. 
nor i. i do not wish even their bone to lie on the clean earth. let them go and find a fresh lair. they cannot stay here. i have see and smell the blood of the woman that give me food the woman whom they would have kill but for me. only the smell of the new grass on their door step can take away that smell. it burn in my mouth. let in the jungle hathi. 
ah. say hathi. so do the scar of the stake burn on my hide till we watch the village die under in the spring growth. now i see. thy war shall be our war. we will let in the jungle. 
mowgli have hardly time to catch his breath he be shake all over with rage and hate before the place where the elephant have stand be empty and bagheera be look at him with terror. 
by the break lock that free me. say the black panther at last. art thou the naked thing i speak for in the pack when all be young. master of the jungle when my strength go speak for me speak for baloo speak for u all. we be cub before thee. snap twig under foot. fawn that have lose their doe. 
the idea of bagheera be a stray fawn upset mowgli altogether and he laugh and catch his breath and sob and laugh again till he have to jump into a pool to make himself stop. then he swim round and round duck in and out of the bar of the moonlight like the frog his namesake. 
by this time hathi and his three son have turn each to one point of the compass and be stride silently down the valley a mile away. they go on and on for two day march that be to say a long sixty mile through the jungle. and every step they take and every wave of their trunk be know and note and talk over by mang and chil and the monkey people and all the bird. then they begin to fee and feed quietly for a week or so. hathi and his son be like kaa the rock python. they never hurry till they have to. 
at the end of that time and none know who have start it a rumour go through the jungle that there be good food and water to be find in such and such a valley. the pig who of course will go to the end of the earth for a full meal move first by company scuffle over the rock and the deer follow with the small wild fox that live on the dead and die of the herd. and the heavy shoulder nilghai move parallel with the deer and the wild buffalo of the swamp come after the nilghai. the least little thing would have turn the scatter straggle drove that graze and saunter and drink and graze again. but whenever there be an alarm some one would rise up and soothe them. at one time it would be ikki the porcupine full of news of good fee just a little farther on. at another mang would cry cheerily and flap down a glade to show it be all empty. or baloo his mouth full of root would shamble alongside a waver line and half frighten half romp it clumsily back to the proper road. very many creature break back or run away or lose interest but very many be leave to go forward. at the end of another ten day or so the situation be this. the deer and the pig and the nilghai be mill round and round in a circle of eight or ten mile radius while the eater of flesh skirmish round it edge. and the centre of that circle be the village and round the village the crop be ripen and in the crop sit men on what they call machans platform like pigeon perch make of stick at the top of four pole to scare away bird and other stealer. then the deer be coax no more. the eater of flesh be close behind them and force them forward and inward. 
it be a dark night when hathi and his three son slip down from the jungle and break off the pole of the machans with their trunk. they fell a a snap stalk of hemlock in bloom fall and the men that tumble from them hear the deep gurgle of the elephant in their ear. then the vanguard of the bewilder army of the deer break down and flood into the village graze ground and the plough field. and the sharp hoof root wild pig come with them and what the deer leave the pig spoil and from time to time an alarm of wolf would shake the herd and they would rush to and fro desperately tread down the young barley and cut flat the bank of the irrigate channel. before the dawn break the pressure on the outside of the circle give way at one point. the eater of flesh have fall back and leave an open path to the south and drive upon drive of buck flee along it. others who be bold lay up in the thicket to finish their meal next night. 
but the work be practically do. when the villager look in the morning they saw their crop be lose. and that mean death if they do not get away for they live year in and year out a near to starvation a the jungle be near to them. when the buffalo be send to graze the hungry brute find that the deer have clear the graze ground and so wander into the jungle and drift off with their wild mate. and when twilight fell the three or four pony that belong to the village lay in their stable with their head beat in. only bagheera could have give those stroke and only bagheera would have think of insolently drag the last carcass to the open street. 
the villager have no heart to make fire in the field that night so hathi and his three son go glean among what be leave. and where hathi glean there be no need to follow. the men decide to live on their store seed corn until the rain have fall and then to take work a servant till they could catch up with the lose year. but a the grain dealer be think of his well fill crate of corn and the price he would levy at the sale of it hathi s sharp tusk be pick out the corner of his mud house and smash open the big wicker chest leeped with cow dung where the precious stuff lay. 
when that last loss be discover it be the brahmin s turn to speak. he have pray to his own god without answer. it might be he say that unconsciously the village have offend some one of the god of the jungle for beyond doubt the jungle be against them. so they send for the head man of the near tribe of wander gond little wise and very black hunter live in the deep jungle whose father come of the old race in india the aboriginal owner of the land. they make the gond welcome with what they have and he stand on one leg his bow in his hand and two or three poison arrow stick through his top knot look half afraid and half contemptuously at the anxious villager and their ruin field. they wish to know whether his god the old god be angry with them and what sacrifice should be offer. the gond say nothing but pick up a trail of the karela the vine that bear the bitter wild gourd and lace it to and fro across the temple door in the face of the star red hindu image. then he push with his hand in the open air along the road to khanhiwara and go back to his jungle and watch the jungle people drift through it. he know that when the jungle move only white men can hope to turn it aside. 
there be no need to ask his mean. the wild gourd would grow where they have worship their god and the sooner they save themselves the good. 
but it be hard to tear a village from it mooring. they stay on a long a any summer food be leave to them and they try to gather nut in the jungle but shadow with glare eye watch them and roll before them even at mid day. and when they run back afraid to their wall on the tree trunk they have pass not five minute before the bark would be strip and chisel with the stroke of some great taloned paw. the more they keep to their village the bold grow the wild thing that gambol and bellow on the graze ground by the waingunga. they have no time to patch and plaster the rear wall of the empty byre that back on to the jungle. the wild pig trample them down and the knotty root vine hurry after and throw their elbow over the new win grind and the coarse grass bristle behind the vine like the lance of a goblin army follow a retreat. the unmarried men run away first and carry the news far and near that the village be doom. who could fight they say against the jungle or the god of the jungle when the very village cobra have leave his hole in the platform under the peepul tree. so their little commerce with the outside world shrink a the tread path across the open grow few and faint. at last the nightly trumpet of hathi and his three son cease to trouble them. for they have no more to be rob of. the crop on the grind and the seed in the grind have be take. the outlying field be already lose their shape and it be time to throw themselves on the charity of the english at khanhiwara. 
native fashion they delay their departure from one day to another till the first rain catch them and the unmended roof let in a flood and the graze grind stand ankle deep and all life come on with a rush after the heat of the summer. then they wad out men woman and child through the blind hot rain of the morning but turn naturally for one farewell look at their home. 
they hear a the last burden family file through the gate a crash of fall beam and thatch behind the wall. they saw a shiny snaky black trunk lift for an instant scatter sodden thatch. it disappear and there be another crash follow by a squeal. hathi have be pluck off the roof of the hut a you pluck water lily and a rebound beam have prick him. he need only this to unchain his full strength for of all thing in the jungle the wild elephant enrage be the most wantonly destructive. he kick backward at a mud wall that crumble at the stroke and crumble melt to yellow mud under the torrent of rain. then he wheel and squeal and tear through the narrow street lean against the hut right and leave shiver the crazy door and crumple up the cave. while his three son rag behind a they have rag at the sack of the field of bhurtpore. 
the jungle will swallow these shell say a quiet voice in the wreckage. it be the out wall that must lie down and mowgli with the rain sluice over his bare shoulder and arm leap back from a wall that be settle like a tire buffalo. 
all in good time pant hathi. oh but my tusk be red at bhurtpore. to the out wall child. with the head. together. now. 
the four push side by side. the out wall bulge split and fell and the villager dumb with horror saw the savage clay streak head of the wrecker in the rag gap. then they flee houseless and foodless down the valley a their village shred and toss and trample melt behind them. 
a month late the place be a dimple mound cover with soft green young stuff. and by the end of the rain there be the roar jungle in full blast on the spot that have be under plough not six month before. 
mowgli s song against people. 
i will let loose against you the fleet foot vine i will call in the jungle to stamp out your line. the roof shall fade before it the house beam shall fall and the karela the bitter karela shall cover it all. 
in the gate of these your council my people shall sing in the door of these your garner the bat folk shall cling. and the snake shall be your watchman by a hearthstone unswept. for the karela the bitter karela shall fruit where ye sleep. 
ye shall not see my striker. ye shall hear them and guess. by night before the moon rise i will send for my ce and the wolf shall be your herdsman by a landmark remove for the karela the bitter karela shall seed where ye love. 
i will reap your field before you at the hand of a host. ye shall glean behind my reaper for the bread that be lose and the deer shall be your ox by a headland untilled for the karela the bitter karela shall leaf where ye build. 
i have untie against you the club foot vine i have send in the jungle to swamp out your line. the tree the tree be on you. the house beam shall fall and the karela the bitter karela shall cover you all. 
the undertaker. 
when ye say to tabaqui my brother. when ye call the hyena to meat ye may cry the full truce with jacala the belly that run on four foot. jungle law. 
respect the age. 
it be a thick voice a muddy voice that would have make you shudder a voice like something soft break in two. there be a quaver in it a croak and a whine. 
respect the age. o companion of the river respect the age. 
nothing could be see on the broad reach of the river except a little fleet of square sail wooden pin barge load with build stone that have just come under the railway bridge and be drive down stream. they put their clumsy helm over to avoid the sand bar make by the scour of the bridge pier and a they pass three abreast the horrible voice begin again. 
o brahmin of the river respect the age and infirm. 
a boatman turn where he sit on the gunwale lift up his hand say something that be not a bless and the boat creak on through the twilight. the broad indian river that look more like a chain of little lake than a stream be a smooth a glass reflect the sandy red sky in mid channel but splash with patch of yellow and dusky purple near and under the low bank. little creek run into the river in the wet season but now their dry mouth hang clear above water line. on the leave shore and almost under the railway bridge stand a mud and brick and thatch and stick village whose main street full of cattle go back to their byre run straight to the river and end in a sort of rude brick pier head where people who want to wash could wade in step by step. that be the ghaut of the village of mugger ghaut. 
night be fall fast over the field of lentil and rice and cotton in the low lie grind yearly flood by the river. over the reed that fringe the elbow of the bend and the tangle jungle of the graze ground behind the still reed. the parrot and crow who have be chatter and shout over their even drink have fly inland to roost cross the out go battalion of the fly fox. and cloud upon cloud of water bird come whistle and honk to the cover of the reed bed. there be goose barrel head and black back teal widgeon mallard and sheldrake with curlew and here and there a flamingo. 
a lumber adjutant crane bring up the rear fly a though each slow stroke would be his last. 
respect the age. brahmin of the river respect the age. 
the adjutant half turn his head sheer a little in the direction of the voice and land stiffly on the sand bar below the bridge. then you saw what a ruffianly brute he really be. his back view be immensely respectable for he stand nearly six foot high and look rather like a very proper bald head parson. in front it be different for his ally sloper like head and neck have not a feather to them and there be a horrible raw skin pouch on his neck under his chin a hold all for the thing his pick axe beak might steal. his leg be long and thin and skinny but he move them delicately and look at them with pride a he preen down his ashy gray tail feather glance over the smooth of his shoulder and stiffen into stand at attention. 
a mangy little jackal who have be yap hungrily on a low bluff cock up his ear and tail and scuttered across the shallow to join the adjutant. 
he be the low of his caste not that the best of jackal be good for much but this one be peculiarly low be half a beggar half a criminal a clean up of village rubbish heap desperately timid or wildly bold everlastingly hungry and full of cunning that never do him any good. 
ugh. he say shake himself dolefully a he land. may the red mange destroy the dog of this village. i have three bite for each flea upon me and all because i look only look mark you at an old shoe in a cow byre. can i eat mud. he scratch himself under his leave ear. 
i hear say the adjutant in a voice like a blunt saw go through a thick board i hear there be a new bear puppy in that same shoe. 
to hear be one thing. to know be another say the jackal who have a very fair knowledge of proverb pick up by listen to men round the village fire of an even. 
quite true. so to make sure i take care of that puppy while the dog be busy elsewhere. 
they be very busy say the jackal. well i must not go to the village hunt for scrap yet awhile. and so there truly be a blind puppy in that shoe. 
it be here say the adjutant squint over his beak at his full pouch. a small thing but acceptable now that charity be dead in the world. 
ahai. the world be iron in these day wail the jackal. then his restless eye catch the least possible ripple on the water and he go on quickly. life be hard for u all and i doubt not that even our excellent master the pride of the ghaut and the envy of the river. 
a liar a flatterer and a jackal be all hatch out of the same egg say the adjutant to nobody in particular. for he be rather a fine sort of a liar on his own account when he take the trouble. 
yes the envy of the river the jackal repeat raise his voice. even he i doubt not find that since the bridge ha be build good food be more scarce. but on the other hand though i would by no mean say this to his noble face he be so wise and so virtuous a i ala i be not. 
when the jackal own he be gray how black must the jackal be. mutter the adjutant. he could not see what be come. 
that his food never fail and in consequence. 
there be a soft grate sound a though a boat have just touch in shoal water. the jackal spin round quickly and face. it be always best to face. the creature he have be talk about. it be a twenty four foot crocodile case in what look like treble rivet boiler plate stud and keel and crest. the yellow point of his upper teeth just overhang his beautifully flute low jaw. it be the blunt nose mugger of mugger ghaut old than any man in the village who have give his name to the village. the demon of the ford before the railway bridge come murderer man eater and local fetish in one. he lay with his chin in the shallow keep his place by an almost invisible ripple of his tail and well the jackal know that one stroke of that same tail in the water would carry the mugger up the bank with the rush of a steam engine. 
auspiciously meet protector of the poor. he fawn back at every word. a delectable voice be hear and we come in the hope of sweet conversation. my tailless presumption while wait here lead me indeed to speak of thee. it be my hope that nothing be overhear. 
now the jackal have speak just to be listen to for he know flattery be the best way of get thing to eat and the mugger know that the jackal have speak for this end and the jackal know that the mugger know and the mugger know that the jackal know that the mugger know and so they be all very content together. 
the old brute push and pant and grunt up the bank mumble respect the age and infirm. and all the time his little eye burn like coal under the heavy horny eyelid on the top of his triangular head a he shove his bloat barrel body along between his crutched leg. then he settle down and accustom a the jackal be to his way he could not help start for the hundredth time when he saw how exactly the mugger imitate a log adrift on the bar. he have even take pain to lie at the exact angle a naturally strand log would make with the water have regard to the current of the season at the time and place. all this be only a matter of habit of course because the mugger have come ashore for pleasure. but a crocodile be never quite full and if the jackal have be deceive by the liken he would not have live to philosophise over it. 
my child i hear nothing say the mugger shut one eye. the water be in my ear and also i be faint with hunger. since the railway bridge be build my people at my village have cease to love me. and that be break my heart. 
ah shame. say the jackal. so noble a heart too. but men be all alike to my mind. 
nay there be very great difference indeed the mugger answer gently. some be a lean a boat pole. others again be fat a young ja dog. never would i causelessly revile men. they be of all fashion but the long year have show me that one with another they be very good. men woman and child i have no fault to find with them. and remember child he who rebuke the world be rebuke by the world. 
flattery be bad than an empty tin can in the belly. but that which we have just hear be wisdom say the adjutant bring down one foot. 
consider though their ingratitude to this excellent one begin the jackal tenderly. 
nay nay not ingratitude. the mugger say. they do not think for others. that be all. but i have notice lie at my station below the ford that the stair of the new bridge be cruelly hard to climb both for old people and young child. the old indeed be not so worthy of consideration but i be grieve i be truly grieve on account of the fat child. still i think in a little while when the newness of the bridge ha wear away we shall see my people s bare brown leg bravely splash through the ford a before. then the old mugger will be honour again. 
but surely i saw marigold wreath float off the edge of the ghaut only this noon say the adjutant. 
marigold wreath be a sign of reverence all india over. 
an error an error. it be the wife of the sweetmeat seller. she lose her eyesight year by year and cannot tell a log from me the mugger of the ghaut. i saw the mistake when she throw the garland for i be lie at the very foot of the ghaut and have she take another step i might have show her some little difference. yet she mean well and we must consider the spirit of the offer. 
what good be marigold wreath when one be on the rubbish heap. say the jackal hunt for flea but keep one wary eye on his protector of the poor. 
true but they have not yet begin to make the rubbish heap that shall carry me. five time have i see the river draw back from the village and make new land at the foot of the street. five time have i see the village rebuild on the bank and i shall see it build yet five time more. i be no faithless fish hunt gavial i at kasi to day and prayag to morrow a the say be but the true and constant watcher of the ford. it be not for nothing child that the village bear my name and he who watch long a the say be shall at last have his reward. 
_i have watch long very long nearly all my life and my reward ha be bite and blow say the jackal. 
ho. ho. ho. roar the adjutant. 
in august be the jackal bear. the rain fell in september. now such a fearful flood a this say he i can t remember. 
there be one very unpleasant peculiarity about the adjutant. at uncertain time he suffer from acute attack of the fidget or cramp in his leg and though he be more virtuous to behold than any of the crane who be all immensely respectable he fly off into wild cripple stilt war dance half open his wing and bob his bald head up and down. while for reason best know to himself he be very careful to time his bad attack with his nasty remark. at the last word of his song he come to attention again ten time adjutaunter than before. 
the jackal wince though he be full three season old but you cannot resent an insult from a person with a beak a yard long and the power of drive it like a javelin. the adjutant be a most notorious coward but the jackal be bad. 
we must live before we can learn say the mugger and there be this to say. little jackal be very common child but such a mugger a i be be not common. for all that i be not proud since pride be destruction. but take notice it be fate and against his fate no one who swim or walk or run should say anything at all. i be well content with fate. with good luck a keen eye and the custom of consider whether a creek or a backwater ha an outlet to it ere you ascend much may be do. 
once i hear that even the protector of the poor make a mistake say the jackal viciously. 
true. but there my fate help me. it be before i have come to my full growth before the last famine but three. by the right and leave of gunga how full use the stream to be in those day. yes i be young and unthinking and when the flood come who so please a i. a little make me very happy then. the village be deep in flood and i swim above the ghaut and go far inland up to the rice field and they be deep in good mud. i remember also a pair of bracelet. glass they be and trouble me not a little. that i find that even. yes glass bracelet. and if my memory serf me well a shoe. i should have shake off both shoe but i be hungry. i learn good late. yes. and so i feed and rest me. but when i be ready to go to the river again the flood have fall and i walk through the mud of the main street. who but i. come out all my people priest and woman and child and i look upon them with benevolence. the mud be not a good place to fight in. say a boatman get ax and kill him for he be the mugger of the ford. not so say the brahmin. look he be drive the flood before him. he be the godling of the village. then they throw many flower at me and by happy think one lead a goat across the road. 
how good how very good be goat. say the jackal. 
hairy too hairy and when find in the water more than likely to hide a cross shape hook. but that goat i accept and go down to the ghaut in great honour. late my fate send me the boatman who have desire to cut off my tail with an axe. his boat ground upon an old shoal which you would not remember. 
we be not all jackal here say the adjutant. be it the shoal make where the stone boat sink in the year of the great drouth a long shoal that last three flood. 
there be two say the mugger. an upper and a low shoal. 
ay i forget. a channel divide them and late dry up again say the adjutant who pride himself on his memory. 
on the low shoal my well wisher s craft ground. he be sleep in the bow and half awake leap over to his waist no it be no more than to his knee to push off. his empty boat go on and touch again below the next reach a the river run then. i follow because i know men would come out to drag it ashore. 
and do they do so. say the jackal a little awe stricken. this be hunt on a scale that impress him. 
there and low down they do. i go no farther but that give me three in one day well feed manjis. boatman. all and except in the case of the last. then i be careless. never a cry to warn those on the bank. 
ah noble sport. but what cleverness and great judgment it require. say the jackal. 
not cleverness child but only think. a little think in life be like salt upon rice a the boatman say and i have think deeply always. the gavial my cousin the fish eater ha tell me how hard it be for him to follow his fish and how one fish differ from the other and how he must know them all both together and apart. i say that be wisdom. but on the other hand my cousin the gavial life among his people. my people do not swim in company with their mouth out of the water a rewa doe. nor do they constantly rise to the surface of the water and turn over on their side like mohoo and little chapta. nor do they gather in shoal after flood like batchua and chilwa. 
all be very good eat say the adjutant clatter his beak. 
so my cousin say and make a great to do over hunt them but they do not climb the bank to escape his sharp nose. my people be otherwise. their life be on the land in the house among the cattle. i must know what they do and what they be about to do. and add the tail to the trunk a the say be i make up the whole elephant. be there a green branch and an iron ring hang over a doorway. the old mugger know that a boy ha be bear in that house and must some day come down to the ghaut to play. be a maiden to be marry. the old mugger know for he see the men carry gift back and forth. and she too come down to the ghaut to bathe before her wed and he be there. ha the river change it channel and make new land where there be only sand before. the mugger know. 
now of what use be that knowledge. say the jackal. the river ha shift even in my little life. indian river be nearly always move about in their bed and will shift sometimes a much a two or three mile in a season drown the field on one bank and spread good silt on the other. 
there be no knowledge so useful say the mugger for new land mean new quarrel. the mugger know. oho. the mugger know. a soon a the water ha drain off he creep up the little creek that men think would not hide a dog and there he wait. presently come a farmer say he will plant cucumber here and melon there in the new land that the river ha give him. he feel the good mud with his bare toe. anon come another say he will put onion and carrot and sugar cane in such and such place. they meet a boat adrift meet and each roll his eye at the other under the big blue turban. the old mugger see and hear. each call the other brother and they go to mark out the boundary of the new land. the mugger hurry with them from point to point shuffle very low through the mud. now they begin to quarrel. now they say hot word. now they pull turban. now they lift up their lathi. club. and at last one fall backward into the mud and the other run away. when he come back the dispute be settle a the iron bind bamboo of the loser witness. yet they be not grateful to the mugger. no they cry murder. and their family fight with stick twenty a side. my people be good people upland jat malwais of the bet. they do not give blow for sport and when the fight be do the old mugger wait far down the river out of sight of the village behind the kikar scrub yonder. then come they down my broad shoulder jat eight or nine together under the star bear the dead man upon a bed. they be old men with gray beard and voice a deep a mine. they light a little fire ah. how well i know that fire. and they drink tobacco and they nod their head together forward in a ring or sideways toward the dead man upon the bank. they say the english law will come with a rope for this matter and that such a man s family will be ashamed because such a man must be hang in the great square of the jail. then say the friend of the dead let him hang. and the talk be all to do over again once twice twenty time in the long night. then say one at last the fight be a fair fight. let u take blood money a little more than be offer by the slayer and we will say no more about it. then do they haggle over the blood money for the dead be a strong man leave many son. yet before amratvela. sunrise. they put the fire to him a little a the custom be and the dead man come to me and he say no more about it. aha. my child the mugger know the mugger know and my malwah jat be a good people. 
they be too close too narrow in the hand for my crop croak the adjutant. they waste not the polish on the cow s horn a the say be. and again who can glean after a malwai. 
ah i glean them say the mugger. 
now in calcutta of the south in the old day the adjutant go on everything be throw into the street and we pick and choose. those wear dainty season. but to day they keep their street a clean a the outside of an egg and my people fly away. to be clean be one thing. to dust sweep and sprinkle seven time a day weary the very god themselves. 
there be a down country jackal have it from a brother who tell me that in calcutta of the south all the jackal be a fat a otter in the rain say the jackal his mouth water at the bare think of it. 
ah but the white face be there the english and they bring dog from somewhere down the river in boat big fat dog to keep those same jackal lean say the adjutant. 
they be then a hard hearted a these people. i might have know. neither earth sky nor water show charity to a jackal. i saw the tent of a white face last season after the rain and i also take a new yellow bridle to eat. the white face do not dress their leather in the proper way. it make me very sick. 
that be good than my case say the adjutant. when i be in my third season a young and a bold bird i go down to the river where the big boat come in. the boat of the english be thrice a big a this village. 
he ha be a far a delhi and say all the people there walk on their head mutter the jackal. the mugger open his leave eye and look keenly at the adjutant. 
it be true the big bird insist. a liar only lie when he hope to be believe. no one who have not see those boat could believe this truth. 
that be more reasonable say the mugger. and then. 
from the inside of this boat they be take out great piece of white stuff which in a little while turn to water. much split off and fell about on the shore and the rest they swiftly put into a house with thick wall. but a boatman who laugh take a piece no large than a small dog and throw it to me. i all my people swallow without reflection and that piece i swallow a be our custom. immediately i be afflict with an excessive cold which begin in my crop run down to the extreme end of my toe and deprive me even of speech while the boatman laugh at me. never have i felt such cold. i dance in my grief and amazement till i could recover my breath and then i dance and cry out against the falseness of this world. and the boatman deride me till they fell down. the chief wonder of the matter set aside that marvellous coldness be that there be nothing at all in my crop when i have finish my lament. 
the adjutant have do his very best to describe his feeling after swallow a seven pound lump of wenham lake ice off an american ice ship in the day before calcutta make her ice by machinery. but a he do not know what ice be and a the mugger and the jackal know rather le the tale miss fire. 
anything say the mugger shut his leave eye again anything be possible that come out of a boat thrice the size of mugger ghaut. my village be not a small one. 
there be a whistle overhead on the bridge and the delhi mail slide across all the carriage gleam with light and the shadow faithfully follow along the river. it clank away into the dark again. but the mugger and the jackal be so well use to it that they never turn their head. 
be that anything le wonderful than a boat thrice the size of mugger ghaut. say the bird look up. 
i saw that build child. stone by stone i saw the bridge pier rise and when the men fell off. they be wondrous sure foot for the most part but when they fell. i be ready. after the first pier be make they never think to look down the stream for the body to burn. there again i save much trouble. there be nothing strange in the build of the bridge say the mugger. 
but that which go across pull the roof cart. that be strange the adjutant repeat. it be past any doubt a new breed of bullock. some day it will not be able to keep it foothold up yonder and will fall a the men do. the old mugger will then be ready. 
the jackal look at the adjutant and the adjutant look at the jackal. if there be one thing they be more certain of than another it be that the engine be everything in the wide world except a bullock. the jackal have watch it time and again from the aloe hedge by the side of the line and the adjutant have see engine since the first locomotive run in india. but the mugger have only look up at the thing from below where the brass dome seem rather like a bullock s hump. 
m yes a new kind of bullock the mugger repeat ponderously to make himself quite sure in his own mind. and certainly it be a bullock say the jackal. 
and again it might be begin the mugger pettishly. 
certainly most certainly say the jackal without wait for the other to finish. 
what. say the mugger angrily for he could feel that the others know more than he do. what might it be. i never finish my word. you say it be a bullock. 
it be anything the protector of the poor plea. i be his servant not the servant of the thing that cross the river. 
whatever it be it be white face work say the adjutant. and for my own part i would not lie out upon a place so near to it a this bar. 
you do not know the english a i do say the mugger. there be a white face here when the bridge be build and he would take a boat in the evening and shuffle with his foot on the bottom board and whisper. be he here. be he there. bring me my gun. i could hear him before i could see him each sound that he make creak and puff and rattle his gun up and down the river. a surely a i have pick up one of his workman and thus save great expense in wood for the burn so surely would he come down to the ghaut and shout in a loud voice that he would hunt me and rid the river of me the mugger of mugger ghaut. me. child i have swim under the bottom of his boat for hour after hour and hear him fire his gun at log. and when i be well sure he be weary i have rise by his side and snap my jaw in his face. when the bridge be finish he go away. all the english hunt in that fashion except when they be hunt. 
who hunt the white face. yap the jackal excitedly. 
no one now but i have hunt them in my time. 
i remember a little of that hunt. i be young then say the adjutant clatter his beak significantly. 
i be well establish here. my village be be build for the third time a i remember when my cousin the gavial bring me word of rich water above benares. at first i would not go for my cousin who be a fish eater doe not always know the good from the bad. but i hear my people talk in the evening and what they say make me certain. 
and what do they say. the jackal ask. 
they say enough to make me the mugger of mugger ghaut leave water and take to my foot. i go by night use the little stream a they serve me. but it be the begin of the hot weather and all stream be low. i cross dusty road. i go through tall grass. i climb hill in the moonlight. even rock do i climb child consider this well. i cross the tail of sirhind the waterless before i could find the set of the little river that flow gungaward. i be a month s journey from my own people and the river that i know. that be very marvellous. 
what food on the way. say the jackal who keep his soul in his little stomach and be not a bite impress by the mugger s land travel. 
that which i could find cousin say the mugger slowly drag each word. 
now you do not call a man a cousin in india unless you think you can establish some kind of blood relationship and a it be only in old fairy tale that the mugger ever marry a jackal the jackal know for what reason he have be suddenly lift into the mugger s family circle. if they have be alone he would not have care but the adjutant s eye twinkle with mirth at the ugly jest. 
assuredly father i might have know say the jackal. a mugger doe not care to be call a father of jackal and the mugger of mugger ghaut say a much and a great deal more which there be no use in repeat here. 
the protector of the poor ha claim kinship. how can i remember the precise degree. moreover we eat the same food. he ha say it be the jackal s reply. 
that make matter rather bad for what the jackal hint at be that the mugger must have eat his food on that land march fresh and fresh every day instead of keep it by him till it be in a fit and proper condition a every self respect mugger and most wild beast do when they can. indeed one of the bad term of contempt along the river bed be eater of fresh meat. it be nearly a bad a call a man a cannibal. 
that food be eat thirty season ago say the adjutant quietly. if we talk for thirty season more it will never come back. tell u now what happen when the good water be reach after thy most wonderful land journey. if we listen to the howl of every jackal the business of the town would stop a the say be. 
the mugger must have be grateful for the interruption because he go on with a rush. 
by the right and leave of gunga. when i come there never do i see such water. 
be they good then than the big flood of last season. say the jackal. 
good. that flood be no more than come every five year a handful of drown stranger some chicken and a dead bullock in muddy water with cross current. but the season i think of the river be low smooth and even and a the gavial have warn me the dead english come down touch each other. i get my girth in that season my girth and my depth. from agra by etawah and the broad water by allahabad. 
oh the eddy that set under the wall of the fort at allahabad. say the adjutant. they come in there like widgeon to the reed and round and round they swing thus. 
he go off into his horrible dance again while the jackal look on enviously. he naturally could not remember the terrible year of the mutiny they be talk about. the mugger continue. 
yes by allahabad one lay still in the slack water and let twenty go by to pick one. and above all the english be not cumber with jewellery and nose ring and anklet a my woman be nowadays. to delight in ornament be to end with a rope for a necklace a the say be. all the mugger of all the river grow fat then but it be my fate to be fat than them all. the news be that the english be be hunt into the river and by the right and leave of gunga. we believe it be true. so far a i go south i believe it to be true. and i go down stream beyond monghyr and the tomb that look over the river. 
i know that place say the adjutant. since those day monghyr be a lose city. very few live there now. 
thereafter i work up stream very slowly and lazily and a little above monghyr there come down a boatful of white face alive. they be a i remember woman lie under a cloth spread over stick and cry aloud. there be never a gun fire at u the watcher of the ford in those day. all the gun be busy elsewhere. we could hear them day and night inland come and go a the wind shift. i rise up full before the boat because i have never see white face alive though i know them well otherwise. a naked white child kneel by the side of the boat and stoop over must need try to trail his hand in the river. it be a pretty thing to see how a child love run water. i have feed that day but there be yet a little unfilled space within me. still it be for sport and not for food that i rise at the child s hand. they be so clear a mark that i do not even look when i close. but they be so small that though my jaw ring true i be sure of that the child draw them up swiftly unhurt. they must have pass between tooth and tooth those small white hand. i should have catch him cross wise at the elbow. but a i say it be only for sport and desire to see new thing that i rise at all. they cry out one after another in the boat and presently i rise again to watch them. the boat be too heavy to push over. they be only woman but he who trust a woman will walk on duckweed in a pool a the say be. and by the right and leave of gunga that be truth. 
once a woman give me some dry skin from a fish say the jackal. i have hop to get her baby but horse food be good than the kick of a horse a the say be. what do thy woman do. 
she fire at me with a short gun of a kind i have never see before or since. five time one after another. the mugger must have meet with an old fashion revolver. and i stay open mouth and gap my head in the smoke. never do i see such a thing. five time a swiftly a i wave my tail thus. 
the jackal who have be grow more and more interest in the story have just time to leap back a the huge tail swing by like a scythe. 
not before the fifth shoot say the mugger a though he have never dream of stun one of his listener not before the fifth shoot do i sink and i rise in time to hear a boatman tell all those white woman that i be most certainly dead. one bullet have go under a neck plate of mine. i know not if it be there still for the reason i cannot turn my head. look and see child. it will show that my tale be true. 
i. say the jackal. shall an eater of old shoe a bone cracker presume to doubt the word of the envy of the river. may my tail be bite off by blind puppy if the shadow of such a think ha cross my humble mind. the protector of the poor ha condescend to inform me his slave that once in his life he ha be wound by a woman. that be sufficient and i will tell the tale to all my child ask for no proof. 
over much civility be sometimes no good than over much discourtesy for a the say be one can choke a guest with curd. i do not desire that any child of thine should know that the mugger of mugger ghaut take his only wind from a woman. they will have much else to think of if they get their meat a miserably a doe their father. 
it be forget long ago. it be never say. there never be a white woman. there be no boat. nothing whatever happen at all. 
the jackal wave his brush to show how completely everything be wipe out of his memory and sit down with an air. 
indeed very many thing happen say the mugger beat in his second attempt that night to get the good of his friend. neither bore malice however. eat and be eat be fair law along the river and the jackal come in for his share of plunder when the mugger have finish a meal. i leave that boat and go up stream and when i have reach arrah and the back water behind it there be no more dead english. the river be empty for a while. then come one or two dead in red coat not english but of one kind all hindu and purbeeahs then five and six abreast and at last from arrah to the north beyond agra it be a though whole village have walk into the water. they come out of little creek one after another a the log come down in the rain. when the river rise they rise also in company from the shoal they have rest upon. and the fall flood drag them with it across the field and through the jungle by the long hair. all night too go north i hear the gun and by day the shoe foot of men cross ford and that noise which a heavy cart wheel make on sand under water. and every ripple bring more dead. at last even i be afraid for i say. if this thing happen to men how shall the mugger of mugger ghaut escape. there be boat too that come up behind me without sail burn continually a the cotton boat sometimes burn but never sink. 
ah. say the adjutant. boat like those come to calcutta of the south. they be tall and black they beat up the water behind them with a tail and they. 
be thrice a big a my village. my boat be low and white. they beat up the water on either side of them and be no large than the boat of one who speak truth should be. they make me very afraid and i leave water and go back to this my river hide by day and walk by night when i could not find little stream to help me. i come to my village again but i do not hope to see any of my people there. yet they be plough and sow and reap and go to and fro in their field a quietly a their own cattle. 
be there still good food in the river. say the jackal. 
more than i have any desire for. even i and i do not eat mud even i be tire and a i remember a little frighten of this constant come down of the silent one. i hear my people say in my village that all the english be dead. but those that come face down with the current be not english a my people saw. then my people say that it be best to say nothing at all but to pay the tax and plough the land. after a long time the river clear and those that come down it have be clearly drown by the flood a i could well see. and though it be not so easy then to get food i be heartily glad of it. a little kill here and there be no bad thing but even the mugger be sometimes satisfy a the say be. 
marvellous. most truly marvellous. say the jackal. i be become fat through merely hear about so much good eat. and afterward what if it be permit to ask do the protector of the poor do. 
i say to myself and by the right and leave of gunga. i lock my jaw on that vow i say i would never go rove any more. so i live by the ghaut very close to my own people and i watch over them year after year. and they love me so much that they throw marigold wreath at my head whenever they saw it lift. yes and my fate ha be very kind to me and the river be good enough to respect my poor and infirm presence. only. 
no one be all happy from his beak to his tail say the adjutant sympathetically. what doe the mugger of mugger ghaut need more. 
that little white child which i do not get say the mugger with a deep sigh. he be very small but i have not forget. i be old now but before i die it be my desire to try one new thing. it be true they be a heavy foot noisy and foolish people and the sport would be small but i remember the old day above benares and if the child life he will remember still. it may be he go up and down the bank of some river tell how he once pass his hand between the teeth of the mugger of mugger ghaut and live to make a tale of it. my fate ha be very kind but that plague me sometimes in my dream the think of the little white child in the bow of that boat. he yawn and close his jaw. and now i will rest and think. keep silent my child and respect the age. 
he turn stiffly and shuffle to the top of the sand bar while the jackal draw back with the adjutant to the shelter of a tree strand on the end near the railway bridge. 
that be a pleasant and profitable life he grin look up inquiringly at the bird who tower above him. and not once mark you do he think fit to tell me where a morsel might have be leave along the bank. yet i have tell him a hundred time of good thing wallow down stream. how true be the say all the world forget the jackal and the barber when the news ha be tell. now he be go to sleep. arrh. 
how can a jackal hunt with a mugger. say the adjutant coolly. big thief and little thief. it be easy to say who get the picking. 
the jackal turn whine impatiently and be go to curl himself up under the tree trunk when suddenly he cower and look up through the draggle branch at the bridge almost above his head. 
what now. say the adjutant open his wing uneasily. 
wait till we see. the wind blow from u to them but they be not look for u those two men. 
men be it. my office protect me. all india know i be holy. the adjutant be a first class scavenger be allow to go where he plea and so this one never flinch. 
i be not worth a blow from anything good than an old shoe say the jackal and listen again. hark to that footfall. he go on. that be no country leather but the shoe foot of a white face. listen again. iron hit iron up there. it be a gun. friend those heavy foot foolish english be come to speak with the mugger. 
warn him then. he be call protector of the poor by some one not unlike a starve jackal but a little time ago. 
let my cousin protect his own hide. he ha tell me again and again there be nothing to fear from the white face. they must be white face. not a villager of mugger ghaut would dare to come after him. see i say it be a gun. now with good luck we shall fee before daylight. he cannot hear well out of water and this time it be not a woman. 
a shiny barrel glitter for a minute in the moonlight on the girder. the mugger be lie on the sand bar a still a his own shadow his fore foot spread out a little his head drop between them snore like a mugger. 
a voice on the bridge whisper. it s an odd shoot straight down almost but a safe a house. good try behind the neck. golly. what a brute. the villager will be wild if he s shoot though. he s the deota [godling] of these part. 
don t care a rap another voice answer. he take about fifteen of my best cooly while the bridge be build and it s time he be put a stop to. i ve be after him in a boat for week. stand by with the martini a soon a i ve give him both barrel of this. 
mind the kick then. a double four bore s no joke. 
that s for him to decide. here go. 
there be a roar like the sound of a small cannon. the big sort of elephant rifle be not very different from some artillery. and a double streak of flame follow by the sting crack of a martini whose long bullet make nothing of a crocodile s plate. but the explosive bullet do the work. one of them strike just behind the mugger s neck a hand s breadth to the leave of the backbone while the other burst a little low down at the begin of the tail. in ninety nine case out of a hundred a mortally wound crocodile can scramble to deep water and get away. but the mugger of mugger ghaut be literally break into three piece. he hardly move his head before the life go out of him and he lay a flat a the jackal. 
thunder and lightning. lightning and thunder. say that miserable little beast. ha the thing that pull the cover cart over the bridge tumble at last. 
it be no more than a gun say the adjutant though his very tail feather quiver. nothing more than a gun. he be certainly dead. here come the white face. 
the two englishman have hurry down from the bridge and across to the sand bar where they stand admire the length of the mugger. then a native with an axe cut off the big head and four men drag it across the spit. 
the last time that i have my hand in a mugger s mouth say one of the englishman stoop down. he be the man who have build the bridge. it be when i be about five year old come down the river by boat to monghyr. i be a mutiny baby a they call it. poor mother be in the boat too and she often tell me how she fire dad s old pistol at the beast s head. 
well you ve certainly have your revenge on the chief of the clan even if the gun ha make your nose bleed. hi you boatman. haul that head up the bank and we ll boil it for the skull. the skin s too knock about to keep. come along to bed now. this be worth sit up all night for wasn t it. 
*****. 
curiously enough the jackal and the adjutant make the very same remark not three minute after the men have leave. 
a ripple song. 
once a ripple come to land in the golden sunset burn lap against a maiden s hand by the ford return. 
dainty foot and gentle breast here across be glad and rest. maiden wait the ripple saith. wait awhile for i be death. 
where my lover call i go shame it be to treat him coldly twas a fish that circle so turn over boldly. 
dainty foot and tender heart wait the load ferry cart. wait ah wait. the ripple saith. maiden wait for i be death. 
when my lover call i haste dame disdain be never wed. ripple ripple round her waist clear the current eddy. 
foolish heart and faithful hand little foot that touch no land. far away the ripple speed ripple ripple run red. 
the king s ankus. 
these be the four that be never content that have never be fill since the dew begin jacala s mouth and the glut of the kite and the hand of the ape and the eye of man. jungle say. 
kaa the big rock python have change his skin for perhaps the two hundredth time since his birth. and mowgli who never forget that he owe his life to kaa for a night s work at cold lair which you may perhaps remember go to congratulate him. skin change always make a snake moody and depress till the new skin begin to shine and look beautiful. kaa never make fun of mowgli any more but accept him a the other jungle people do for the master of the jungle and bring him all the news that a python of his size would naturally hear. what kaa do not know about the middle jungle a they call it the life that run close to the earth or under it the boulder burrow and the tree bole life might have be write upon the small of his scale. 
that afternoon mowgli be sit in the circle of kaa s great coil finger the flake and break old skin that lay all loop and twist among the rock just a kaa have leave it. kaa have very courteously pack himself under mowgli s broad bare shoulder so that the boy be really rest in a live arm chair. 
even to the scale of the eye it be perfect say mowgli under his breath play with the old skin. strange to see the cover of one s own head at one s own foot. 
ay but i lack foot say kaa. and since this be the custom of all my people i do not find it strange. doe thy skin never feel old and harsh. 
then go i and wash flathead. but it be true in the great heat i have wish i could slough my skin without pain and run skinless. 
i wash and also i take off my skin. how look the new coat. 
mowgli run his hand down the diagonal checker of the immense back. the turtle be hard back but not so gay he say judgmatically. the frog my name bearer be more gay but not so hard. it be very beautiful to see like the mottle in the mouth of a lily. 
it need water. a new skin never come to full colour before the first bath. let u go bathe. 
i will carry thee say mowgli. and he stoop down laugh to lift the middle section of kaa s great body just where the barrel be thick. a man might just a well have try to heave up a two foot water main. and kaa lay still puff with quiet amusement. then the regular even game begin the boy in the flush of his great strength and the python in his sumptuous new skin stand up one against the other for a wrestle match a trial of eye and strength. of course kaa could have crush a dozen mowglis if he have let himself go. but he play carefully and never loose one tenth of his power. ever since mowgli be strong enough to endure a little rough handle kaa have teach him this game and it supple his limb a nothing else could. sometimes mowgli would stand lap almost to his throat in kaa s shift coil strive to get one arm free and catch him by the throat. then kaa would give way limply and mowgli with both quick move foot would try to cramp the purchase of that huge tail a it fling backward feel for a rock or a stump. they would rock to and fro head to head each wait for his chance till the beautiful statue like group melt in a whirl of black and yellow coil and struggle leg and arm to rise up again and again. now. now. now. say kaa make feint with his head that even mowgli s quick hand could not turn aside. look. i touch thee here little brother. here and here. be thy hand numb. here again. 
the game always end in one way with a straight drive blow of the head that knock the boy over and over. mowgli could never learn the guard for that lightning lunge and a kaa say there be not the least use in try. 
good hunt. kaa grunt at last. and mowgli a usual be shoot away half a dozen yard gasp and laugh. he rise with his finger full of grass and follow kaa to the wise snake s pet bath place a deep pitchy black pool surround with rock and make interest by sink tree stump. the boy slip in jungle fashion without a sound and dive across. rise too without a sound and turn on his back his arm behind his head watch the moon rise above the rock and break up her reflection in the water with his toe. kaa s diamond shape head cut the pool like a razor and come out to rest on mowgli s shoulder. they lay still soak luxuriously in the cool water. 
it be very good say mowgli at last sleepily. now in the man pack at this hour a i remember they lay them down upon hard piece of wood in the inside of a mud trap and have carefully shut out all the clean wind draw foul cloth over their heavy head and make evil song through their nose. it be good in the jungle. 
a hurry cobra slip down over a rock and drink give them good hunt. and go away. 
sssh. say kaa a though he have suddenly remember something. so the jungle give thee all that thou hast ever desire little brother. 
not all say mowgli laugh. else there would be a new and strong shere khan to kill once a moon. now i could kill with my own hand ask no help of buffalo. and also i have wish the sun to shine in the middle of the rain and the rain to cover the sun in the deep of summer. and also i have never go empty but i wish that i have kill a goat. and also i have never kill a goat but i wish it have be buck. nor buck but i wish it have be nilghai. but thus do we feel all of u. 
thou hast no other desire. the big snake demand. 
what more can i wish. i have the jungle and the favour of the jungle. be there more anywhere between sunrise and sunset. 
now the cobra say kaa begin. what cobra. he that go away just now say nothing. he be hunt. 
it be another. 
hast thou many dealing with the poison people. i give them their own path. they carry death in the fore tooth and that be not good for they be so small. but what hood be this thou hast speak with. 
kaa roll slowly in the water like a steamer in a beam sea. three or four moon since say he i hunt in cold lair which place thou hast not forget. and the thing i hunt flee shriek past the tank and to that house whose side i once break for thy sake and run into the grind. 
but the people of cold lair do not live in burrow. mowgli know that kaa be tell of the monkey people. 
this thing be not live but seek to live kaa reply with a quiver of his tongue. he run into a burrow that lead very far. i follow and have kill i sleep. when i wake i go forward. 
under the earth. 
even so come at last upon a white hood [a white cobra] who speak of thing beyond my knowledge and show me many thing i have never before see. 
new game. be it good hunt. mowgli turn quickly on his side. 
it be no game and would have break all my teeth. but the white hood say that a man he speak a one that know the breed that a man would give the breath under his rib for only the sight of those thing. 
we will look say mowgli. i now remember that i be once a man. 
slowly slowly. it be haste kill the yellow snake that eat the sun. we two speak together under the earth and i speak of thee name thee a a man. say the white hood. and he be indeed a old a the jungle. it be long since i have see a man. let him come and he shall see all these thing for the least of which very many men would die. 
that must be new game. and yet the poison people do not tell u when game be afoot. they be an unfriendly folk. 
it be not game. it be it be i cannot say what it be. 
we will go there. i have never see a white hood and i wish to see the other thing. do he kill them. 
they be all dead thing. he say he be the keeper of them all. 
ah. a a wolf stand above meat he ha take to his own lair. let u go. 
mowgli swim to bank roll on the grass to dry himself and the two set off for cold lair the desert city of which you may have hear. mowgli be not the least afraid of the monkey people in those day but the monkey people have the lively horror of mowgli. their tribe however be raid in the jungle and so cold lair stand empty and silent in the moonlight. kaa lead up to the ruin of the queen pavilion that stand on the terrace slip over the rubbish and dive down the half choke staircase that go underground from the centre of the pavilion. mowgli give the snake call we be of one blood ye and i and follow on his hand and knee. they crawl a long distance down a slop passage that turn and twist several time and at last come to where the root of some great tree grow thirty foot overhead have force out a solid stone in the wall. they creep through the gap and find themselves in a large vault whose domed roof have be also break away by tree root so that a few streak of light drop down into the darkness. 
a safe lair say mowgli rise to his firm foot but over far to visit daily. and now what do we see. 
be i nothing. say a voice in the middle of the vault. and mowgli saw something white move till little by little there stand up the huge cobra he have ever set eye on a creature nearly eight foot long and bleach by be in darkness to an old ivory white. even the spectacle mark of his spread hood have fade to faint yellow. his eye be a red a ruby and altogether he be most wonderful. 
good hunt. say mowgli who carry his manner with his knife and that never leave him. 
what of the city. say the white cobra without answer the greet. what of the great the wall city the city of a hundred elephant and twenty thousand horse and cattle past count the city of the king of twenty king. i grow deaf here and it be long since i hear their war gong. 
the jungle be above our head say mowgli. i know only hathi and his son among elephant. bagheera ha slay all the horse in one village and what be a king. 
i tell thee say kaa softly to the cobra i tell thee four moon ago that thy city be not. 
the city the great city of the forest whose gate be guard by the king s tower can never pas. they build it before my father s father come from the egg and it shall endure when my son s son be a white a i. salomdhi son of chandrabija son of viyeja son of yegasuri make it in the day of bappa rawal. whose cattle be ye. 
it be a lose trail say mowgli turn to kaa. i know not his talk. 
nor i. he be very old. father of cobra there be only the jungle here a it ha be since the begin. 
then who be he say the white cobra sit down before me unafraid know not the name of the king talk our talk through a man s lip. who be he with the knife and the snake s tongue. 
mowgli they call me be the answer. i be of the jungle. the wolf be my people and kaa here be my brother. father of cobra who art thou. 
i be the warden of the king s treasure. kurrun raja build the stone above me in the day when my skin be dark that i might teach death to those who come to steal. then they let down the treasure through the stone and i hear the song of the brahmin my master. 
umm. say mowgli to himself. i have deal with one brahmin already in the man pack and i know what i know. evil come here in a little. 
five time since i come here ha the stone be lift but always to let down more and never to take away. there be no rich like these rich the treasure of a hundred king. but it be long and long since the stone be last move and i think that my city ha forget. 
there be no city. look up. yonder be root of the great tree tear the stone apart. tree and men do not grow together kaa insist. 
twice and thrice have men find their way here the white cobra answer savagely. but they never speak till i come upon them grope in the dark and then they cry only a little time. but ye come with lie man and snake both and would have me believe the city be not and that my wardship end. little do men change in the year. but i change never. till the stone be lift and the brahmin come down sing the song that i know and fee me with warm milk and take me to the light again i i i_ and no other be the warden of the king s treasure. the city be dead ye say and here be the root of the tree. stoop down then and take what ye will. earth ha no treasure like to these. man with the snake s tongue if thou canst go alive by the way that thou hast enter it the less king will be thy servant. 
again the trail be lose say mowgli coolly. can any jackal have burrow so deep and bite this great white hood. he be surely mad. father of cobra i see nothing here to take away. 
by the god of the sun and moon it be the madness of death upon the boy. hiss the cobra. before thine eye close i will allow thee this favour. look thou and see what man ha never see before. 
they do not well in the jungle who speak to mowgli of favour say the boy between his teeth. but the dark change all a i know. i will look if that please thee. 
he star with pucker up eye round the vault and then lift up from the floor a handful of something that glitter. 
oho. say he this be like the stuff they play with in the man pack. only this be yellow and the other be brown. 
he let the gold piece fall and move forward. the floor of the vault be bury some five or six foot deep in coin gold and silver that have burst from the sack it have be originally store in and in the long year the metal have pack and settle a sand pack at low tide. on it and in it and rise through it a wreck lift through the sand be jewel elephant howdah of emboss silver stud with plate of hammer gold and adorn with carbuncle and turquoise. there be palanquin and litter for carry queen frame and brace with silver and enamel with jade handle pole and amber curtain ring. there be golden candlestick hang with pierce emerald that quiver on the branch. there be stud image five foot high of forget god silver with jewel eye. there be coat of mail gold inlay on steel and fringe with rot and blacken seed pearl. there be helmet crest and bead with pigeon s blood ruby. there be shield of lacquer of tortoise shell and rhinoceros hide strap and boss with red gold and set with emerald at the edge. there be sheaf of diamond hilted sword dagger and hunt knife. there be golden sacrificial bowl and ladle and portable altar of a shape that never see the light of day. there be jade cup and bracelet. there be incense burner comb and pot for perfume henna and eye powder all in emboss gold. there be nose ring armlet head band finger ring and girdle past any count. there be belt seven finger broad of square cut diamond and ruby and wooden box trebly clamp with iron from which the wood have fall away in powder show the pile of uncut star sapphire opal cat s eye sapphire ruby diamond emerald and garnet within. 
the white cobra be right. no mere money would begin to pay the value of this treasure the sift picking of century of war plunder trade and taxation. the coin alone be priceless leave out of count all the precious stone. and the dead weight of the gold and silver alone might be two or three hundred ton. every native ruler in india to day however poor ha a hoard to which he be always add. and though once in a long while some enlighten prince may send off forty or fifty bullock cart load of silver to be exchange for government security the bulk of them keep their treasure and the knowledge of it very closely to themselves. 
but mowgli naturally do not understand what these thing mean. the knife interest him a little but they do not balance so well a his own and so he drop them. at last he find something really fascinate lay on the front of a howdah half bury in the coin. it be a three foot ankus or elephant goad something like a small boat hook. the top be one round shin ruby and eight inch of the handle below it be stud with rough turquoise close together give a most satisfactory grip. below them be a rim of jade with a flower pattern run round it only the leaf be emerald and the blossom be ruby sink in the cool green stone. the rest of the handle be a shaft of pure ivory while the point the spike and hook be gold inlay steel with picture of elephant catch. and the picture attract mowgli who saw that they have something to do with his friend hathi the silent. 
the white cobra have be follow him closely. 
be this not worth die to behold. he say. have i not do thee a great favour. 
i do not understand say mowgli. the thing be hard and cold and by no mean good to eat. but this he lift the ankus i desire to take away that i may see it in the sun. thou sayest they be all thine. wilt thou give it to me and i will bring thee frog to eat. 
the white cobra fairly shake with evil delight. assuredly i will give it he say. all that be here i will give thee till thou go away. 
but i go now. this place be dark and cold and i wish to take the thorn point thing to the jungle. 
look by thy foot. what be that there. mowgli pick up something white and smooth. it be the bone of a man s head he say quietly. and here be two more. 
they come to take the treasure away many year ago. i speak to them in the dark and they lay still. 
but what do i need of this that be call treasure. if thou wilt give me the ankus to take away it be good hunt. if not it be good hunt none the le. i do not fight with the poison people and i be also teach the master word of thy tribe. 
there be but one master word here. it be mine. 
kaa fling himself forward with blaze eye. who bid me bring the man. he hiss. 
i surely the old cobra lisp. it be long since i have see man and this man speak our tongue. 
but there be no talk of kill. how can i go to the jungle and say that i have lead him to his death. say kaa. 
i talk not of kill till the time. and a to thy go or not go there be the hole in the wall. peace now thou fat monkey killer. i have but to touch thy neck and the jungle will know thee no long. never man come here that go away with the breath under his rib. i be the warden of the treasure of the king s city. 
but thou white worm of the dark i tell thee there be neither king nor city. the jungle be all about u. cry kaa. 
there be still the treasure. but this can be do. wait awhile kaa of the rock and see the boy run. there be room for great sport here. life be good. run to and fro awhile and make sport boy. 
mowgli put his hand on kaa s head quietly. 
the white thing ha deal with men of the man pack until now. he doe not know me he whisper. he ha ask for this hunt. let him have it. mowgli have be stand with the ankus hold point down. he fling it from him quickly and it drop crossway just behind the great snake s hood pin him to the floor. in a flash kaa s weight be upon the writhe body paralyse it from hood to tail. the red eye burn and the six spare inch of the head strike furiously right and leave. 
kill. say kaa a mowgli s hand go to his knife. 
no he say a he draw the blade. i will never kill again save for food. but look you kaa. he catch the snake behind the hood force the mouth open with the blade of the knife and show the terrible poison fang of the upper jaw lie black and wither in the gum. the white cobra have outlive his poison a a snake will. 
thuu. it be dry up literally a rot out tree stump. say mowgli. and motion kaa away he pick up the ankus set the white cobra free. 
the king s treasure need a new warden he say gravely. thuu thou hast not do well. run to and fro and make sport thuu. 
i be ashamed. kill me. hiss the white cobra. 
there ha be too much talk of kill. we will go now. i take the thorn point thing thuu because i have fight and worst thee. 
see then that the thing doe not kill thee at last. it be death. remember it be death. there be enough in that thing to kill the men of all my city. not long wilt thou hold it jungle man nor he who take it from thee. they will kill and kill and kill for it sake. my strength be dry up but the ankus will do my work. it be death. it be death. it be death. 
mowgli crawl out through the hole into the passage again and the last that he saw be the white cobra strike furiously with his harmless fang at the stolid golden face of the god that lay on the floor and hiss it be death. 
they be glad to get to the light of day once more. and when they be back in their own jungle and mowgli make the ankus glitter in the morning light he be almost a please a though he have find a bunch of new flower to stick in his hair. 
this be bright than bagheera s eye he say delightedly a he twirl the ruby. i will show it to him. but what do the thuu mean when he talk of death. 
i cannot say. i be sorrowful to my tail s tail that he felt not thy knife. there be always evil at cold lair above grind or below. but now i be hungry. dost thou hunt with me this dawn. say kaa. 
no. bagheera must see this thing. good hunt. mowgli dance off flourish the great ankus and stop from time to time to admire it till he come to that part of the jungle bagheera chiefly use and find him drink after a heavy kill. mowgli tell him all his adventure from begin to end and bagheera sniff at the ankus between while. when mowgli come to the white cobra s last word the panther purr approvingly. 
then the white hood speak the thing which be. mowgli ask quickly. 
i be bear in the king s cage at oodeypore and it be in my stomach that i know some little of man. very many men would kill thrice in a night for the sake of that one big red stone alone. 
but the stone make it heavy to the hand. my little bright knife be good. and see. the red stone be not good to eat. then why would they kill. 
mowgli go thou and sleep. thou hast live among men and. 
i remember. men kill because they be not hunt. for idleness and pleasure. wake again bagheera. for what use be this thorn point thing make. 
bagheera half open his eye he be very sleepy with a malicious twinkle. 
it be make by men to thrust into the head of the son of hathi so that the blood should pour out. i have see the like in the street of oodeypore before our cage. that thing ha taste the blood of many such a hathi. 
but why do they thrust into the head of elephant. 
to teach them man s law. have neither claw nor teeth men make these thing and bad. 
always more blood when i come near even to the thing the man pack have make say mowgli disgustedly. he be get a little tire of the weight of the ankus. if i have know this i would not have take it. first it be messua s blood on the thong and now it be hathi s. i will use it no more. look. 
the ankus fly sparkle and bury itself point down thirty yard away between the tree. so my hand be clean of death say mowgli rub his palm on the fresh moist earth. the thuu say death would follow me. he be old and white and mad. 
white or black or death or life i be go to sleep little brother. i cannot hunt all night and howl all day a do some folk. 
bagheera go off to a hunt lair that he know about two mile off. mowgli make an easy way for himself up a convenient tree knot three or four creeper together and in le time than it take to tell be swing in a hammock fifty foot above grind. though he have no positive objection to strong daylight mowgli follow the custom of his friend and use it a little a he could. when he wake among the very loud voice people that live in the tree it be twilight once more and he have be dream of the beautiful pebble he have throw away. 
at least i will look at the thing again he say and slide down a creeper to the earth. but bagheera be before him. mowgli could hear him snuff in the half light. 
where be the thorn point thing. cry mowgli. 
a man ha take it. here be the trail. 
now we shall see whether the thuu speak truth. if the point thing be death that man will die. let u follow. 
kill first say bagheera. an empty stomach make a careless eye. men go very slowly and the jungle be wet enough to hold the light mark. 
they kill a soon a they could but it be nearly three hour before they finish their meat and drink and buckle down to the trail. the jungle people know that nothing make up for be hurry over your meal. 
think you the point thing will turn in the man s hand and kill him. mowgli ask. the thuu say it be death. 
we shall see when we find say bagheera trot with his head low. it be single foot. he mean that there be only one man. and the weight of the thing ha press his heel far into the grind. 
hai. this be a clear a summer lightning mowgli answer. and they fell into the quick choppy trail trot in and out through the checker of the moonlight follow the mark of those two bare foot. 
now he run swiftly say mowgli. the toe be spread apart. they go on over some wet grind. now why doe he turn aside here. 
wait. say bagheera and fling himself forward with one superb bind a far a ever he could. the first thing to do when a trail cease to explain itself be to cast forward without leave your own confuse foot mark on the grind. bagheera turn a he land and face mowgli cry here come another trail to meet him. it be a small foot this second trail and the toe turn inward. 
then mowgli run up and look. it be the foot of a gond hunter he say. look. here he drag his bow on the grass. that be why the first trail turn aside so quickly. big foot hide from little foot. 
that be true say bagheera. now l by cross each other s track we foul the sign let each take one trail. i be big foot little brother and thou art little foot the gond. 
bagheera leap back to the original trail leave mowgli stoop above the curious narrow track of the wild little man of the wood. 
now say bagheera move step by step along the chain of footprint i big foot turn aside here. now i hide me behind a rock and stand still not dare to shift my foot. cry thy trail little brother. 
now i little foot come to the rock say mowgli run up his trail. now i sit down under the rock lean upon my right hand and rest my bow between my toe. i wait long for the mark of my foot be deep here. 
i also say bagheera hide behind the rock. i wait rest the end of the thorn point thing upon a stone. it slip for here be a scratch upon the stone. cry thy trail little brother. 
one two twig and a big branch be break here say mowgli in an undertone. now how shall i cry that. ah. it be plain now. i little foot go away make noise and trampling so that big foot may hear me. he move away from the rock pace by pace among the tree his voice rise in the distance a he approach a little cascade. i go far away to where the noise of fall water cover my noise. and here i wait. cry thy trail bagheera big foot. 
the panther have be cast in every direction to see how big foot s trail lead away from behind the rock. then he give tongue. 
i come from behind the rock upon my knee drag the thorn point thing. see no one i run. i big foot run swiftly. the trail be clear. let each follow his own. i run. 
bagheera sweep on along the clearly mark trail and mowgli follow the step of the gond. for some time there be silence in the jungle. 
where art thou little foot. cry bagheera. mowgli s voice answer him not fifty yard to the right. 
um. say the panther with a deep cough. the two run side by side draw near. 
they race on another half mile always keep about the same distance till mowgli whose head be not so close to the grind a bagheera s cry. they have meet. good hunt look. here stand little foot with his knee on a rock and yonder be big foot indeed. 
not ten yard in front of them stretch across a pile of break rock lay the body of a villager of the district a long small feather gond arrow through his back and breast. 
be the thuu so old and so mad little brother. say bagheera gently. here be one death at least. 
follow on. but where be the drinker of elephant s blood the red eye thorn. 
little foot ha it perhaps. it be single foot again now. 
the single trail of a light man who have be run quickly and bear a burden on his leave shoulder hold on round a long low spur of dry grass where each footfall seem to the sharp eye of the tracker mark in hot iron. 
neither speak till the trail run up to the ash of a camp fire hide in a ravine. 
again. say bagheera check a though he have be turn into stone. 
the body of a little wizened gond lay with it foot in the ash and bagheera look inquiringly at mowgli. 
that be do with a bamboo say the boy after one glance. i have use such a thing among the buffalo when i serve in the man pack. the father of cobra i be sorrowful that i make a jest of him know the breed well a i might have know. say i not that men kill for idleness. 
indeed they kill for the sake of the red and blue stone bagheera answer. remember i be in the king s cage at oodeypore. 
one two three four track say mowgli stoop over the ash. four track of men with shoe foot. they do not go so quickly a gond. now what evil have the little woodman do to them. see they talk together all five stand up before they kill him. bagheera let u go back. my stomach be heavy in me and yet it heave up and down like an oriole s nest at the end of a branch. 
it be not good hunt to leave game afoot. follow. say the panther. those eight shoe foot have not go far. 
no more be say for fully an hour a they work up the broad trail of the four men with shoe foot. 
it be clear hot daylight now and bagheera say i smell smoke. 
men be always more ready to eat than to run mowgli answer trot in and out between the low scrub bush of the new jungle they be explore. bagheera a little to his leave make an indescribable noise in his throat. 
here be one that ha do with feed say he. a tumble bundle of gay colour clothe lay under a bush and round it be some spill flour. 
that be do by the bamboo again say mowgli. see. that white dust be what men eat. they have take the kill from this one he carry their food and give him for a kill to chil the kite. 
it be the third say bagheera. 
i will go with new big frog to the father of cobra and fee him fat say mowgli to himself. the drinker of elephant s blood be death himself but still i do not understand. 
follow. say bagheera. 
they have not go half a mile farther when they hear ko the crow sing the death song in the top of a tamarisk under whose shade three men be lie. a half dead fire smoke in the centre of the circle under an iron plate which hold a blacken and burn cake of unleavened bread. close to the fire and blaze in the sunshine lay the ruby and turquoise ankus. 
the thing work quickly. all end here say bagheera. how do these die mowgli. there be no mark on any. 
a jungle dweller get to learn by experience a much a many doctor know of poisonous plant and berry. mowgli sniff the smoke that come up from the fire break off a morsel of the blacken bread taste it and spat it out again. 
apple of death he cough. the first must have make it ready in the food for these who kill him have first kill the gond. 
good hunt indeed. the kill follow close say bagheera. 
apple of death be what the jungle call thorn apple or dhatura the ready poison in all india. 
what now. say the panther. must thou and i kill each other for yonder red eye slayer. 
can it speak. say mowgli in a whisper. do i do it a wrong when i throw it away. between u two it can do no wrong for we do not desire what men desire. if it be leave here it will assuredly continue to kill men one after another a fast a nut fall in a high wind. i have no love to men but even i would not have them die six in a night. 
what matter. they be only men. they kill one another and be well please say bagheera. that first little woodman hunt well. 
they be cub none the le. and a cub will drown himself to bite the moon s light on the water. the fault be mine say mowgli who speak a though he know all about everything. i will never again bring into the jungle strange thing not though they be a beautiful a flower. this he handle the ankus gingerly go back to the father of cobra. but first we must sleep and we cannot sleep near these sleeper. also we must bury him l he run away and kill another six. dig me a hole under that tree. 
but little brother say bagheera move off to the spot i tell thee it be no fault of the blood drinker. the trouble be with the men. 
all one say mowgli. dig the hole deep. when we wake i will take him up and carry him back. 
*****. 
two night late a the white cobra sit mourn in the darkness of the vault ashamed and rob and alone the turquoise ankus whirl through the hole in the wall and clash on the floor of golden coin. 
father of cobra say mowgli. he be careful to keep the other side of the wall. get thee a young and ripe one of thine own people to help thee guard the king s treasure so that no man may come away alive any more. 
ah ha. it return then. i say the thing be death. how come it that thou art still alive. the old cobra mumble twin lovingly round the ankus haft. 
by the bull that buy me i do not know. that thing ha kill six time in a night. let him go out no more. 
the song of the little hunter. 
ere mor the peacock flutter ere the monkey people cry ere chil the kite swoop down a furlong sheer through the jungle very softly flit a shadow and a sigh he be fear o little hunter he be fear. 
very softly down the glade run a wait watch shade and the whisper spread and widen far and near. and the sweat be on thy brow for he pass even now he be fear o little hunter he be fear. 
ere the moon ha climb the mountain ere the rock be rib with light when the downward dip trail be dank and drear come a breathe hard behind thee snuffle snuffle through the night it be fear o little hunter it be fear. 
on thy knee and draw the bow. bid the shrill arrow go. in the empty mock thicket plunge the spear. but thy hand be loose and weak and the blood ha leave thy cheek it be fear o little hunter it be fear. 
when the heat cloud suck the tempest when the sliver pine tree fall when the blind blare rain squall lash and veer. through the war gong of the thunder ring a voice more loud than all it be fear o little hunter it be fear. 
now the spate be bank and deep. now the footle boulder leap now the lightning show each little leaf rib clear but thy throat be shut and dry and thy heart against thy side hammer. fear o little hunter this be fear. 
quiquern. 
the people of the eastern ice they be melt like the snow they beg for coffee and sugar. they go where the white men go. the people of the western ice they learn to steal and fight. they sell their fur to the trade post. they sell their soul to the white. the people of the southern ice they trade with the whaler s crew. their woman have many ribbon but their tent be tear and few. but the people of the elder ice beyond the white man s ken their spear be make of the narwhal horn and they be the last of the men. translation. 
he ha open his eye. look. 
put him in the skin again. he will be a strong dog. on the fourth month we will name him. 
for whom. say amoraq. 
kadlu s eye roll round the skin line snow house till it fell on fourteen year old kotuko sit on the sleep bench make a button out of walrus ivory. name him for me say kotuko with a grin. i shall need him one day. 
kadlu grin back till his eye be almost bury in the fat of his flat cheek and nod to amoraq while the puppy s fierce mother whine to see her baby wriggle far out of reach in the little sealskin pouch hang above the warmth of the blubber lamp. kotuko go on with his carve and kadlu throw a roll bundle of leather dog harness into a tiny little room that open from one side of the house slip off his heavy deerskin hunt suit put it into a whalebone net that hang above another lamp and drop down on the sleep bench to whittle at a piece of freeze seal meat till amoraq his wife should bring the regular dinner of boil meat and blood soup. he have be out since early dawn at the seal hole eight mile away and have come home with three big seal. half way down the long low snow passage or tunnel that lead to the inner door of the house you could hear snappings and yelping a the dog of his sleigh team release from the day s work scuffle for warm place. 
when the yelping grow too loud kotuko lazily roll off the sleep bench and pick up a whip with an eighteen inch handle of springy whalebone and twenty five foot of heavy plait thong. he dive into the passage where it sound a though all the dog be eat him alive. but that be no more than their regular grace before meal. when he crawl out at the far end half a dozen furry head follow him with their eye a he go to a sort of gallows of whale jawbone from which the dog s meat be hang. split off the freeze stuff in big lump with a broad head spear. and stand his whip in one hand and the meat in the other. each beast be call by name the weak first and woe betide any dog that move out of his turn. for the taper lash would shoot out like thonged lightning and flick away an inch or so of hair and hide. each beast growl snap choke once over his portion and hurry back to the protection of the passage while the boy stand upon the snow under the blaze northern light and deal out justice. the last to be serve be the big black leader of the team who keep order when the dog be harness. and to him kotuko give a double allowance of meat a well a an extra crack of the whip. 
ah. say kotuko coil up the lash i have a little one over the lamp that will make a great many howling. sarpok. get in. 
he crawl back over the huddle dog dust the dry snow from his fur with the whalebone beater that amoraq keep by the door tap the skin line roof of the house to shake off any icicle that might have fall from the dome of snow above and curl up on the bench. the dog in the passage snore and whine in their sleep the boy baby in amoraq s deep fur hood kick and choke and gurgle and the mother of the newly name puppy lay at kotuko s side her eye fix on the bundle of sealskin warm and safe above the broad yellow flame of the lamp. 
and all this happen far away to the north beyond labrador beyond hudson s strait where the great tide heave the ice about north of melville peninsula north even of the narrow fury and hecla strait on the north shore of baffin land where bylot s island stand above the ice of lancaster sound like a pudding bowl wrong side up. north of lancaster sound there be little we know anything about except north devon and ellesmere land. but even there live a few scatter people next door a it be to the very pole. 
kadlu be an inuit what you call an esquimau and his tribe some thirty person all tell belong to the tununirmiut the country lie at the back of something. in the map that desolate coast be write navy board inlet but the inuit name be best because the country lie at the very back of everything in the world. for nine month of the year there be only ice and snow and gale after gale with a cold that no one can realise who ha never see the thermometer even at zero. for six month of those nine it be dark. and that be what make it so horrible. in the three month of the summer it only freeze every other day and every night and then the snow begin to weep off on the southerly slope and a few grind willow put out their woolly bud a tiny stonecrop or so make believe to blossom beach of fine gravel and round stone run down to the open sea and polish boulder and streak rock lift up above the granulate snow. but all that be go in a few week and the wild winter lock down again on the land. while at sea the ice tear up and down the off jam and ram and split and hit and pound and ground till it all freeze together ten foot thick from the land outward to deep water. 
in the winter kadlu would follow the seal to the edge of this land ice and spear them a they come up to breathe at their blow hole. the seal must have open water to live and catch fish in and in the deep of winter the ice would sometimes run eighty mile without a break from the near shore. in the spring he and his people retreat from the floe to the rocky mainland where they put up tent of skin and snare the sea bird or spear the young seal bask on the beach. late they would go south into baffin land after the reindeer and to get their year s store of salmon from the hundred of stream and lake of the interior. come back north in september or october for the musk ox hunt and the regular winter sealery. this travel be do with dog sleigh twenty and thirty mile a day or sometimes down the coast in big skin woman boat when the dog and the baby lay among the foot of the rower and the woman sing song a they glide from cape to cape over the glassy cold water. all the luxury that the tununirmiut know come from the south driftwood for sleigh runner rod iron for harpoon tip steel knife tin kettle that cook food much good than the old soap stone affair flint and steel and even match a well a colour ribbon for the woman s hair little cheap mirror and red cloth for the edge of deerskin dress jacket. kadlu trade the rich creamy twist narwhal horn and musk ox teeth. these be just a valuable a pearl. to the southern inuit and they in turn trade with the whaler and the missionary post of exeter and cumberland sound. and so the chain go on till a kettle pick up by a ship s cook in the bhendy bazaar might end it day over a blubber lamp somewhere on the cool side of the arctic circle. 
kadlu be a good hunter be rich in iron harpoon snow knife bird dart and all the other thing that make life easy up there in the great cold. and he be the head of his tribe or a they say the man who know all about it by practice. this do not give him any authority except now and then he could advise his friend to change their hunt ground. but kotuko use it to domineer a little in the lazy fat inuit fashion over the other boy when they come out at night to play ball in the moonlight or to sing the child s song to the aurora borealis. 
but at fourteen an inuit feel himself a man and kotuko be tire of make snare for wild fowl and kit fox and most tire of all of help the woman to chew seal and deer skin. that supple them a nothing else can. the long day through while the men be out hunt. he want to go into the quaggi the sing house when the hunter gather there for their mystery and the angekok the sorcerer frighten them into the most delightful fit after the lamp be put out and you could hear the spirit of the reindeer stamp on the roof. and when a spear be thrust out into the open black night it come back cover with hot blood. he want to throw his big boot into the net with the tire air of the head of a family and to gamble with the hunter when they drop in of an even and play a sort of home make roulette with a tin pot and a nail. there be hundred of thing that he want to do but the grow men laugh at him and say wait till you have be in the buckle kotuko. hunt be not all catch. 
now that his father have name a puppy for him thing look bright. an inuit doe not waste a good dog on his son till the boy know something of dog drive. and kotuko be more than sure that he know more than everything. 
if the puppy have not have an iron constitution he would have die from over stuff and over handle. kotuko make him a tiny harness with a trace to it and haul him all over the house floor shout. aua. ja aua. go to the right. choiachoi. ja choiachoi. go to the leave. ohaha. stop. the puppy do not like it at all but be fish for in this way be pure happiness beside be put to the sleigh for the first time. he just sit down on the snow and play with the seal hide trace that run from his harness to the pitu the big thong in the bow of the sleigh. then the team start and the puppy find the heavy ten foot sleigh run up his back and drag him along the snow while kotuko laugh till the tear run down his face. there follow day and day of the cruel whip that hiss like the wind over ice and his companion all bite him because he do not know his work and the harness chafe him and he be dot allow to sleep with kotuko any more but have to take the cold place in the passage. it be a sad time for the puppy. 
the boy learn too a fast a the dog. though a dog sleigh be a heart break thing to manage. each beast be harness the weak near to the driver by his own separate trace which run under his leave fore leg to the main thong where it be fasten by a sort of button and loop which can be slip by a turn of the wrist thus free one dog at a time. this be very necessary because young dog often get the trace between their hind leg where it cut to the bone. and they one and all will go visit their friend a they run jump in and out among the trace. then they fight and the result be more mix than a wet fish line next morning. a great deal of trouble can be avoid by scientific use of the whip. every inuit boy pride himself a be a master of the long lash. but it be easy to flick at a mark on the grind and difficult to lean forward and catch a shirk dog just behind the shoulder when the sleigh be go at full speed. if you call one dog s name for visit and accidentally lash another the two will fight it out at once and stop all the others. again if you travel with a companion and begin to talk or by yourself and sing the dog will halt turn round and sit down to hear what you have to say. kotuko be run away from once or twice through forget to block the sleigh when he stop. and he break many lashing and ruin a few thong before he could be trust with a full team of eight and the light sleigh. then he felt himself a person of consequence and on smooth black ice with a bold heart and a quick elbow he smoke along over the level a fast a a pack in full cry. he would go ten mile to the seal hole and when he be on the hunt ground he would twitch a trace loose from the pitu and free the big black leader who be the clever dog in the team. a soon a the dog have scent a breathe hole kotuko would reverse the sleigh drive a couple of saw off antler that stick up like perambulator handle from the back rest deep into the snow so that the team could not get away. then he would crawl forward inch by inch and wait till the seal come up to breathe. then he would stab down swiftly with his spear and run line and presently would haul his seal up to the lip of the ice while the black leader come up and help to pull the carcass across the ice to the sleigh. that be the time when the harness dog yell and foam with excitement and kotuko lay the long lash like a red hot bar across all their face till the carcass freeze stiff. go home be the heavy work. the load sleigh have to be humour among the rough ice and the dog sit down and look hungrily at the seal instead of pull. at last they would strike the well wear sleigh road to the village and toodle kiyi along the ring ice head down and tail up while kotuko strike up the an gutivaun tai na tau na ne taina. the song of the return hunter. and voice hail him from house to house under all that dim star littern sky. 
when kotuko the dog come to his full growth he enjoy himself too. he fight his way up the team steadily fight after fight till one fine even over their food he tackle the big black leader. kotuko the boy saw fair play. and make second dog of him a they say. so he be promote to the long thong of the lead dog run five foot in advance of all the others. it be his bounden duty to stop all fight in harness or out of it and he wear a collar of copper wire very thick and heavy. on special occasion he be feed with cook food inside the house and sometimes be allow to sleep on the bench with kotuko. he be a good seal dog and would keep a musk ox at bay by run round him and snap at his heel. he would even and this for a sleigh dog be the last proof of bravery he would even stand up to the gaunt arctic wolf whom all dog of the north a a rule fear beyond anything that walk the snow. he and his master they do not count the team of ordinary dog a company hunt together day after day and night after night fur wrap boy and savage long haired narrow eye white fanged yellow brute. all an inuit ha to do be to get food and skin for himself and his family. the woman folk make the skin into clothe and occasionally help in trap small game. but the bulk of the food and they eat enormously must be find by the men. if the supply fail there be no one up there to buy or beg or borrow from. the people must die. 
an inuit doe not think of these chance till he be force to. kadlu kotuko amoraq and the boy baby who kick about in amoraq s fur hood and chew piece of blubber all day be a happy together a any family in the world. they come of a very gentle race an inuit seldom lose his temper and almost never strike a child who do not know exactly what tell a real lie mean still le how to steal. they be content to spear their live out of the heart of the bitter hopeless cold. to smile oily smile and tell queer ghost and fairy tale of evening and eat till they could eat no more and sing the endless woman s song. amna aya aya amna ah. ah. through the long lamp light day a they mend their clothe and their hunt gear. 
but one terrible winter everything betray them. the tununirmiut return from the yearly salmon fish and make their house on the early ice to the north of bylot s island ready to go after the seal a soon a the sea freeze. but it be an early and savage autumn. all through september there be continuous gale that break up the smooth seal ice when it be only four or five foot thick and force it inland and pile a great barrier some twenty mile broad of lump and rag and needly ice over which it be impossible to draw the dog sleigh. the edge of the floe off which the seal be use to fish in winter lay perhaps twenty mile beyond this barrier and out of reach of the tununirmiut. even so they might have manage to scrape through the winter on their stock of freeze salmon and store blubber and what the trap give them but in december one of their hunter come across a tupik. a skin tent. of three woman and a girl nearly dead whose men have come down from the far north and be crush in their little skin hunt boat while they be out after the long horn narwhal. kadlu of course could only distribute the woman among the hut of the winter village for no inuit dare refuse a meal to a strange. he never know when his own turn may come to beg. amoraq take the girl who be about fourteen into her own house a a sort of servant. from the cut of her sharp point hood and the long diamond pattern of her white deer skin legging they suppose she come from ellesmere land. she have never see tin cook pot or wooden shoe sleigh before. but kotuko the boy and kotuko the dog be rather fond of her. 
then all the fox go south and even the wolverine that growl blunt head little thief of the snow do not take the trouble to follow the line of empty trap that kotuko set. the tribe lose a couple of their best hunter who be badly cripple in a fight with a musk ox and this throw more work on the others. kotuko go out day after day with a light hunt sleigh and six or seven of the strong dog look till his eye ache for some patch of clear ice where a seal might perhaps have scratch a breathe hole. kotuko the dog range far and wide and in the dead stillness of the ice field kotuko the boy could hear his half choke whine of excitement above a seal hole three mile away a plainly a though he be at his elbow. when the dog find a hole the boy would build himself a little low snow wall to keep off the bad of the bitter wind and there he would wait ten twelve twenty hour for the seal to come up to breathe his eye glue to the tiny mark he have make above the hole to guide the downward thrust of his harpoon a little seal skin mat under his foot and his leg tie together in the tutareang. the buckle that the old hunter have talk about. this help to keep a man s leg from twitch a he wait and wait and wait for the quick eared seal to rise. though there be no excitement in it you can easily believe that the sit still in the buckle with the thermometer perhaps forty degree below zero be the hard work an inuit know. when a seal be catch kotuko the dog would bind forward his trace trail behind him and help to pull the body to the sleigh where the tire and hungry dog lay sullenly under the lee of the break ice. 
a seal do not go very far for each mouth in the little village have a right to be fill and neither bone hide nor sinew be waste. the dog meat be take for human use and amoraq feed the team with piece of old summer skin tent rake out from under the sleep bench and they howl and howl again and wake to howl hungrily. one could tell by the soap stone lamp in the hut that famine be near. in good season when blubber be plentiful the light in the boat shape lamp would be two foot high cheerful oily and yellow. now it be a bare six inch. amoraq carefully prick down the moss wick when an unwatched flame brighten for a moment and the eye of all the family follow her hand. the horror of famine up there in the great cold be not so much die a die in the dark. all the inuit dread the dark that press on them without a break for six month in each year. and when the lamp be low in the house the mind of people begin to be shake and confuse. 
but bad be to come. 
the underfed dog snap and growl in the passage glare at the cold star and snuff into the bitter wind night after night. when they stop howl the silence fell down again a solid and heavy a a snowdrift against a door and men could hear the beat of their blood in the thin passage of the ear and the thump of their own heart that sound a loud a the noise of sorcerer drum beat across the snow. one night kotuko the dog who have be unusually sullen in harness leap up and push his head against kotuko s knee. kotuko pat him but the dog still push blindly forward fawn. then kadlu wake and grip the heavy wolf like head and star into the glassy eye. the dog whimper and shiver between kadlu s knee. the hair rise about his neck and he growl a though a strange be at the door. then he bark joyously and roll on the grind and bite at kotuko s boot like a puppy. 
what be it. say kotuko. for he be begin to be afraid. 
the sickness kadlu answer. it be the dog sickness. kotuko the dog lift his nose and howl and howl again. 
i have not see this before. what will he do. say kotuko. 
kadlu shrug one shoulder a little and cross the hut for his short stab harpoon. the big dog look at him howl again and slink away down the passage while the other dog draw aside right and leave to give him ample room. when he be out on the snow he bark furiously a though on the trail of a musk ox and bark and leap and frisk pass out of sight. his trouble be not hydrophobia but simple plain madness. the cold and the hunger and above all the dark have turn his head. and when the terrible dog sickness once show itself in a team it spread like wild fire. next hunt day another dog sicken and be kill then and there by kotuko a he bite and struggle among the trace. then the black second dog who have be the leader in the old day suddenly give tongue on an imaginary reindeer track and when they slip him from the pitu he fly at the throat of an ice cliff and run away a his leader have do his harness on his back. after that no one would take the dog out again. they need them for something else and the dog know it. and though they be tie down and feed by hand their eye be full of despair and fear. to make thing bad the old woman begin to tell ghost tale and to say that they have meet the spirit of the dead hunter lose that autumn who prophesy all sort of horrible thing. 
kotuko grieve more for the loss of his dog than anything else. for though an inuit eat enormously he also know how to starve. but the hunger the darkness the cold and the exposure tell on his strength and he begin to hear voice inside his head and to see people who be not there out of the tail of his eye. one night he have unbuckle himself after ten hour wait above a blind seal hole and be stagger back to the village faint and dizzy he halt to lean his back against a boulder which happen to be support like a rock stone on a single jut point of ice. his weight disturb the balance of the thing it roll over ponderously and a kotuko spring aside to avoid it slide after him squeak and hiss on the ice slope. 
that be enough for kotuko. he have be bring up to believe that every rock and boulder have it owner. it inua. who be generally a one eye kind of a woman thing call a tornaq and that when a tornaq mean to help a man she roll after him inside her stone house and ask him whether he would take her for a guardian spirit. in summer thaw the ice prop rock and boulder roll and slip all over the face of the land so you can easily see how the idea of live stone arise. kotuko hear the blood beat in his ear a he have hear it all day and he think that be the tornaq of the stone speak to him. before he reach home he be quite certain that he have hold a long conversation with her and a all his people believe that this be quite possible no one contradict him. 
she say to me i jump down i jump down from my place on the snow cry kotuko with hollow eye lean forward in the half light hut. she say i will be a guide. she say i will guide you to the good seal hole. to morrow i go out and the tornaq will guide me. 
then the angekok the village sorcerer come in and kotuko tell him the tale a second time. it lose nothing in the tell. 
follow the tornait [the spirit of the stones] and they will bring u food again say the angekok. 
now the girl from the north have be lie near the lamp eat very little and say le for day past. but when amoraq and kadlu next morning pack and lash a little hand sleigh for kotuko and load it with his hunt gear and a much blubber and freeze seal meat a they could spare she take the pull rope and step out boldly at the boy s side. 
your house be my house she say a the little bone shoe sleigh squeak and bump behind them in the awful arctic night. 
my house be your house say kotuko. but i think that we shall both go to sedna together. 
now sedna be the mistress of the underworld and the inuit believe that every one who dy must spend a year in her horrible country before go to quadliparmiut the happy place where it never freeze and the fat reindeer trot up when you call. 
through the village people be shout. the tornait have speak to kotuko. they will show him open ice. he will bring u the seal again. their voice be soon swallow up by the cold empty dark and kotuko and the girl shoulder close together a they strain on the pull rope or humour the sleigh through the ice in the direction of the polar sea. kotuko insist that the tornaq of the stone have tell him to go north and north they go under tuktuqdjung the reindeer those star that we call the great bear. 
no european could have make five mile a day over the ice rubbish and the sharp edge drift. but those two know exactly the turn of the wrist that coax a sleigh round a hummock the jerk that nearly lift it out of an ice crack and the exact strength that go to the few quiet stroke of the spear head that make a path possible when everything look hopeless. 
the girl say nothing but bow her head and the long wolverine fur fringe of her ermine hood blow across her broad dark face. the sky above them be an intense velvety black change to band of indian red on the horizon where the great star burn like street lamp. from time to time a greenish wave of the northern light would roll across the hollow of the high heaven flick like a flag and disappear. or a meteor would crackle from darkness to darkness trail a shower of spark behind. then they could see the ridge and furrow surface of the floe tip and lace with strange colour red copper and bluish. but in the ordinary starlight everything turn to one frost bite gray. the floe a you will remember have be batter and torment by the autumn gale till it be one freeze earthquake. there be gully and ravine and hole like gravel pit cut in ice. lump and scatter piece freeze down to the original floor of the floe. blotch of old black ice that have be thrust under the floe in some gale and heave up again. roundish boulder of ice. saw like edge of ice carve by the snow that fly before the wind. and sink pit where thirty or forty acre lay below the level of the rest of the field. from a little distance you might have take the lump for seal or walrus overturn sleigh or men on a hunt expedition or even the great ten legged white spirit bear himself. but in spite of these fantastic shape all on the very edge of start into life there be neither sound nor the least faint echo of sound. and through this silence and through this waste where the sudden light flap and go out again the sleigh and the two that pull it crawl like thing in a nightmare a nightmare of the end of the world at the end of the world. 
when they be tire kotuko would make what the hunter call a half house a very small snow hut into which they would huddle with the travel lamp and try to thaw out the freeze seal meat. when they have sleep the march begin again thirty mile a day to get ten mile northward. the girl be always very silent but kotuko mutter to himself and break out into song he have learn in the sing house summer song and reindeer and salmon song all horribly out of place at that season. he would declare that he hear the tornaq growl to him and would run wildly up a hummock toss his arm and speak in loud threaten tone. to tell the truth kotuko be very nearly crazy for the time be. but the girl be sure that he be be guide by his guardian spirit and that everything would come right. she be not surprise therefore when at the end of the fourth march kotuko whose eye be burn like fire ball in his head tell her that his tornaq be follow them across the snow in the shape of a two head dog. the girl look where kotuko point and something seem to slip into a ravine. it be certainly not human but everybody know that the tornait prefer to appear in the shape of bear and seal and such like. 
it might have be the ten legged white spirit bear himself or it might have be anything for kotuko and the girl be so starve that their eye be untrustworthy. they have trap nothing and see no trace of game since they have leave the village. their food would not hold out for another week and there be a gale come. a polar storm can blow for ten day without a break and all that while it be certain death to be abroad. kotuko lay up a snow house large enough to take in the hand sleigh. never be separate from your meat. and while he be shape the last irregular block of ice that make the key stone of the roof he saw a thing look at him from a little cliff of ice half a mile away. the air be hazy and the thing seem to be forty foot long and ten foot high with twenty foot of tail and a shape that quiver all along the outline. the girl saw it too but instead of cry aloud with terror say quietly that be quiquern. what come after. 
he will speak to me say kotuko. but the snow knife tremble in his hand a he speak because however much a man may believe that he be a friend of strange and ugly spirit he seldom like to be take quite at his word. quiquern too be the phantom of a gigantic toothless dog without any hair who be suppose to live in the far north and to wander about the country just before thing be go to happen. they may be pleasant or unpleasant thing but not even the sorcerer care to speak about quiquern. he make the dog go mad. like the spirit bear he ha several extra pair of leg six or eight and this thing jump up and down in the haze have more leg than any real dog need. kotuko and the girl huddle into their hut quickly. of course if quiquern have want them he could have tear it to piece above their head but the sense of a foot thick snow wall between themselves and the wicked dark be great comfort. the gale break with a shriek of wind like the shriek of a train and for three day and three night it hold never vary one point and never lull even for a minute. they feed the stone lamp between their knee and nibble at the half warm seal meat and watch the black soot gather on the roof for seventy two long hour. the girl count up the food in the sleigh. there be not more than two day supply and kotuko look over the iron head and the deer sinew fastening of his harpoon and his seal lance and his bird dart. there be nothing else to do. 
we shall go to sedna soon very soon the girl whisper. in three day we shall lie down and go. will your tornaq do nothing. sing her an angekok s song to make her come here. 
he begin to sing in the high pitch howl of the magic song and the gale go down slowly. in the middle of his song the girl start lay her mittened hand and then her head to the ice floor of the hut. kotuko follow her example and the two kneel star into each other s eye and listen with every nerve. he rip a thin sliver of whalebone from the rim of a bird snare that lay on the sleigh and after straighten set it upright in a little hole in the ice firm it down with his mitten. it be almost a delicately adjust a a compass needle and now instead of listen they watch. the thin rod quiver a little the least little jar in the world. then it vibrate steadily for a few second come to rest and vibrate again this time nod to another point of the compass. 
too soon. say kotuko. some big floe ha break far away outside. 
the girl point at the rod and shake her head. it be the big break she say. listen to the grind ice. it knock. 
when they kneel this time they hear the most curious muffle grunt and knocking apparently under their foot. sometimes it sound a though a blind puppy be squeak above the lamp. then a if a stone be be grind on hard ice. and again like muffle blow on a drum. but all drag out and make small a though they travel through a little horn a weary distance away. 
we shall not go to sedna lie down say kotuko. it be the break. the tornaq ha cheat u. we shall die. 
all this may sound absurd enough but the two be face to face with a very real danger. the three day gale have drive the deep water of baffin s bay southerly and pile it on to the edge of the far reach land ice that stretch from bylot s island to the west. also the strong current which set east out of lancaster sound carry with it mile upon mile of what they call pack ice rough ice that ha not freeze into field. and this pack be bombard the floe at the same time that the swell and heave of the storm work sea be weaken and undermine it. what kotuko and the girl have be listen to be the faint echo of that fight thirty or forty mile away and the little tell tale rod quiver to the shock of it. 
now a the inuit say when the ice once wake after it long winter sleep there be no know what may happen for solid floe ice change shape almost a quickly a a cloud. the gale be evidently a spring gale send out of time and anything be possible. 
yet the two be happy in their mind than before. if the floe break up there would be no more wait and suffer. spirit goblin and witch people be move about on the rack ice and they might find themselves step into sedna s country side by side with all sort of wild thing the flush of excitement still on them. when they leave the hut after the gale the noise on the horizon be steadily grow and the tough ice moan and buzz all round them. 
it be still wait say kotuko. 
on the top of a hummock sit or crouch the eight legged thing that they have see three day before and it howl horribly. 
let u follow say the girl. it may know some way that doe not lead to sedna. but she reel from weakness a she take the pull rope. the thing move off slowly and clumsily across the ridge head always toward the westward and the land and they follow while the growl thunder at the edge of the floe roll near and near. the floe s lip be split and crack in every direction for three or four mile inland and great pan of ten foot thick ice from a few yard to twenty acre square be jolt and duck and surge into one another and into the yet unbroken floe a the heavy swell take and shake and spout between them. this batter ram ice be so to speak the first army that the sea be fling against the floe. the incessant crash and jar of these cake almost drown the rip sound of sheet of pack ice drive bodily under the floe a card be hastily push under a tablecloth. where the water be shallow these sheet would be pile one atop of the other till the bottommost touch mud fifty foot down and the discolour sea bank behind the muddy ice till the increase pressure drive all forward again. in addition to the floe and the pack ice the gale and the current be bring down true berg sail mountain of ice snap off from the greenland side of the water or the north shore of melville bay. they pound in solemnly the wave break white round them and advance on the floe like an old time fleet under full sail. a berg that seem ready to carry the world before it would grind helplessly in deep water reel over and wallow in a lather of foam and mud and fly freeze spray while a much small and low one would rip and ride into the flat floe fling ton of ice on either side and cut a track half a mile long before it be stop. some fell like sword shear a raw edge canal. and others splinter into a shower of block weigh score of ton apiece that whirl and skirt among the hummock. others again rise up bodily out of the water when they shoal twist a though in pain and fell solidly on their side while the sea thresh over their shoulder. this trample and crowd and bend and buckle and arch of the ice into every possible shape be go on a far a the eye could reach all along the north line of the floe. from where kotuko and the girl be the confusion look no more than an uneasy ripple crawl movement under the horizon. but it come toward them each moment and they could hear far away to landward a heavy boom a it might have be the boom of artillery through a fog. that show that the floe be be jam home against the iron cliff of bylot s island the land to the southward behind them. 
this ha never be before say kotuko star stupidly. this be not the time. how can the floe break now. 
follow that. the girl cry point to the thing half limp half run distractedly before them. they follow tug at the hand sleigh while near and near come the roar march of the ice. at last the field round them crack and star in every direction and the crack open and snap like the teeth of wolf. but where the thing rest on a mound of old and scatter ice block some fifty foot high there be no motion. kotuko leap forward wildly drag the girl after him and crawl to the bottom of the mound. the talk of the ice grow loud and loud round them but the mound stay fast and a the girl look at him he throw his right elbow upward and outward make the inuit sign for land in the shape of an island. and land it be that the eight legged limp thing have lead them to some granite tip sand beach islet off the coast shoe and sheathe and mask with ice so that no man could have tell it from the floe but at the bottom solid earth and not shift ice. the smash and rebound of the floe a they ground and splinter mark the border of it and a friendly shoal run out to the northward and turn aside the rush of the heavy ice exactly a a ploughshare turn over loam. there be danger of course that some heavily squeeze ice field might shoot up the beach and plane off the top of the islet bodily. but that do not trouble kotuko and the girl when they make their snow house and begin to eat and hear the ice hammer and skid along the beach. the thing have disappear and kotuko be talk excitedly about his power over spirit a he crouch round the lamp. in the middle of his wild saying the girl begin to laugh and rock herself backward and forward. 
behind her shoulder crawl into the hut crawl by crawl there be two head one yellow and one black that belong to two of the most sorrowful and ashamed dog that ever you saw. kotuko the dog be one and the black leader be the other. both be now fat well look and quite restore to their proper mind but couple to each other in an extraordinary fashion. when the black leader run off you remember his harness be still on him. he must have meet kotuko the dog and play or fight with him for his shoulder loop have catch in the plait copper wire of kotuko s collar and have draw tight so that neither could get at the trace to gnaw it apart but each be fasten sidelong to his neighbour s neck. that with the freedom of hunt on their own account must have help to cure their madness. they be very sober. 
the girl push the two shamefaced creature towards kotuko and sob with laughter cry that be quiquern who lead u to safe grind. look at his eight leg and double head. 
kotuko cut them free and they fell into his arm yellow and black together try to explain how they have get their sens back again. kotuko run a hand down their rib which be round and well clothe. they have find food he say with a grin. i do not think we shall go to sedna so soon. my tornaq send these. the sickness ha leave them. 
a soon a they have greet kotuko these two who have be force to sleep and eat and hunt together for the past few week fly at each other s throat and there be a beautiful battle in the snow house. empty dog do not fight kotuko say. they have find the seal. let u sleep. we shall find food. 
when they wake there be open water on the north beach of the island and all the loosen ice have be drive landward. the first sound of the surf be one of the most delightful that the inuit can hear for it mean that spring be on the road. kotuko and the girl take hold of hand and smile for the clear full roar of the surge among the ice remind them of salmon and reindeer time and the smell of blossom grind willow. even a they look the sea begin to skim over between the float cake of ice so intense be the cold. but on the horizon there be a vast red glare and that be the light of the sink sun. it be more like hear him yawn in his sleep than see him rise and the glare last for only a few minute but it mark the turn of the year. nothing they felt could alter that. 
kotuko find the dog fight over a fresh kill seal who be follow the fish that a gale always disturb. he be the first of some twenty or thirty seal that land on the island in the course of the day and till the sea freeze hard there be hundred of keen black head rejoice in the shallow free water and float about with the float ice. 
it be good to eat seal liver again. to fill the lamp recklessly with blubber and watch the flame blaze three foot in the air. but a soon a the new sea ice bore kotuko and the girl load the hand sleigh and make the two dog pull a they have never pull in their life for they fear what might have happen in their village. the weather be a pitiless a usual. but it be easy to draw a sleigh load with good food than to hunt starve. they leave five and twenty seal carcass bury in the ice of the beach all ready for use and hurry back to their people. the dog show them the way a soon a kotuko tell them what be expect and though there be no sign of a landmark in two day they be give tongue outside kadlu s house. only three dog answer them. the others have be eat and the house be all dark. but when kotuko shout ojo. boil meat. weak voice reply and when he call the muster of the village name by name very distinctly there be no gap in it. 
an hour late the lamp blaze in kadlu s house. snow water be heat. the pot be begin to simmer and the snow be drip from the roof a amoraq make ready a meal for all the village and the boy baby in the hood chew at a strip of rich nutty blubber and the hunter slowly and methodically fill themselves to the very brim with seal meat. kotuko and the girl tell their tale. the two dog sit between them and whenever their name come in they cock an ear apiece and look most thoroughly ashamed of themselves. a dog who ha once go mad and recover the inuit say be safe against all further attack. 
so the tornaq do not forget u say kotuko. the storm blow the ice break and the seal swim in behind the fish that be frighten by the storm. now the new seal hole be not two day distant. let the good hunter go to morrow and bring back the seal i have spear twenty five seal bury in the ice. when we have eat those we will all follow the seal on the floe. 
what do you do. say the sorcerer in the same sort of voice a he use to kadlu rich of the tununirmiut. 
kadlu look at the girl from the north and say quietly we build a house. he point to the north west side of kadlu s house for that be the side on which the marry son or daughter always life. 
the girl turn her hand palm upward with a little despair shake of her head. she be a foreigner pick up starve and could bring nothing to the housekeep. 
amoraq jump from the bench where she sit and begin to sweep thing into the girl s lap stone lamp iron skin scraper tin kettle deer skin embroider with musk ox teeth and real canvas needle such a sailor use the fine dowry that ha ever be give on the far edge of the arctic circle and the girl from the north bow her head down to the very floor. 
also these. say kotuko laugh and sign to the dog who thrust their cold muzzle into the girl s face. 
ah say the angekok with an important cough a though he have be think it all over. a soon a kotuko leave the village i go to the sing house and sing magic. i sing all the long night and call upon the spirit of the reindeer. my sing make the gale blow that break the ice and draw the two dog toward kotuko when the ice would have crush his bone. my song draw the seal in behind the break ice. my body lay still in the quaggi but my spirit run about on the ice and guide kotuko and the dog in all the thing they do. i do it. 
everybody be full and sleepy so no one contradict. and the angekok by virtue of his office help himself to yet another lump of boil meat and lay down to sleep with the others in the warm well light oil smell home. 
*****. 
now kotuko who draw very well in the inuit fashion scratch picture of all these adventure on a long flat piece of ivory with a hole at one end. when he and the girl go north to ellesmere land in the year of the wonderful open winter he leave the picture story with kadlu who lose it in the shingle when his dog sleigh break down one summer on the beach of lake netilling at nikosiring and there a lake inuit find it next spring and sell it to a man at imigen who be interpreter on a cumberland sound whaler and he sell it to han olsen who be afterward a quartermaster on board a big steamer that take tourist to the north cape in norway. when the tourist season be over the steamer run between london and australia stop at ceylon and there olsen sell the ivory to a cingalese jeweller for two imitation sapphire. i find it under some rubbish in a house at colombo and have translate it from one end to the other. 
angutivaun taina. 
[this be a very free translation of the song of the return hunter a the men use to sing it after seal spear. the inuit always repeat thing over and over again. ]. 
our glove be stiff with the freeze blood our fur with the drift snow a we come in with the seal the seal. in from the edge of the floe. 
au jana. aua. oha. haq. and the yelp dog team go and the long whip crack and the men come back back from the edge of the floe. 
we track our seal to his secret place we hear him scratch below we make our mark and we watch beside out on the edge of the floe. 
we raise our lance when he rise to breathe we drive it downward so. and we play him thus and we kill him thus out on the edge of the floe. 
our glove be glue with the freeze blood our eye with the drift snow. but we come back to our wife again back from the edge of the floe. 
au jana. aua. oha. haq. and the load dog team go and the wife can hear their men come back. back from the edge of the floe. 
red dog. 
for our white and our excellent night for the night of swift run. fair range far see good hunt sure cunning. for the smell of the dawn untainted ere dew ha depart. for the rush through the mist and the quarry blind start. for the cry of our mate when the sambhur ha wheel and be stand at bay for the risk and the riot of night. for the sleep at the lair mouth by day it be meet and we go to the fight. bay. o bay. 
it be after the let in of the jungle that the pleasant part of mowgli s life begin. he have the good conscience that come from pay debt. all the jungle be his friend and just a little afraid of him. the thing that he do and saw and hear when he be wander from one people to another with or without his four companion would make many many story each a long a this one. so you will never be tell how he meet the mad elephant of mandla who kill two and twenty bullock draw eleven cart of coin silver to the government treasury and scatter the shiny rupee in the dust. how he fight jacala the crocodile all one long night in the marsh of the north and break his skin knife on the brute s back plate. how he find a new and long knife round the neck of a man who have be kill by a wild boar and how he track that boar and kill him a a fair price for the knife. how he be catch up once in the great famine by the move of the deer and nearly crush to death in the sway hot herd. how he save hathi the silent from be once more trap in a pit with a stake at the bottom and how next day he himself fell into a very cunning leopard trap and how hathi break the thick wooden bar to piece above him. how he milk the wild buffalo in the swamp and how. 
but we must tell one tale at a time. father and mother wolf die and mowgli roll a big boulder against the mouth of their cave and cry the death song over them. baloo grow very old and stiff and even bagheera whose nerve be steel and whose muscle be iron be a shade slow on the kill than he have be. akela turn from gray to milky white with pure age. his rib stick out and he walk a though he have be make of wood and mowgli kill for him. but the young wolf the child of the disband seeonee pack thrive and increase and when there be about forty of them masterless full voice clean foot five year old akela tell them that they ought to gather themselves together and follow the law and run under one head a befit the free people. 
this be not a question in which mowgli concern himself for a he say he have eat sour fruit and he know the tree it hang from. but when phao son of phaona. his father be the gray tracker in the day of akela s headship. fight his way to the leadership of the pack accord to the jungle law and the old call and song begin to ring under the star once more mowgli come to the council rock for memory s sake. when he choose to speak the pack wait till he have finish and he sit at akela s side on the rock above phao. those be day of good hunt and good sleep. no strange care to break into the jungle that belong to mowgli s people a they call the pack and the young wolf grow fat and strong and there be many cub to bring to the look over. mowgli always attend a look over remember the night when a black panther buy a naked brown baby into the pack and the long call look look well o wolf make his heart flutter. otherwise he would be far away in the jungle with his four brother taste touch see and feel new thing. 
one twilight when he be trot leisurely across the range to give akela the half of a buck that he have kill while the four jog behind him spar a little and tumble one another over for joy of be alive he hear a cry that have never be hear since the bad day of shere khan. it be what they call in the jungle the pheeal a hideous kind of shriek that the jackal give when he be hunt behind a tiger or when there be a big kill afoot. if you can imagine a mixture of hate triumph fear and despair with a kind of leer run through it you will get some notion of the pheeal that rise and sink and waver and quaver far away across the waingunga. the four stop at once bristle and growl. mowgli s hand go to his knife and he check the blood in his face his eyebrow knot. 
there be no strip one dare kill here he say. 
that be not the cry of the forerunner answer gray brother. it be some great kill. listen. 
it break out again half sob and half chuckle just a though the jackal have soft human lip. then mowgli draw deep breath and run to the council rock overtake on his way hurry wolf of the pack. phao and akela be on the rock together and below them every nerve strain sit the others. the mother and the cub be canter off to their lair. for when the pheeal cry it be no time for weak thing to be abroad. 
they could hear nothing except the waingunga rush and gurgle in the dark and the light even wind among the tree top till suddenly across the river a wolf call. it be no wolf of the pack for they be all at the rock. the note change to a long despair bay. and dhole. it say dhole. dhole. dhole. they hear tire foot on the rock and a gaunt wolf streak with red on his flank his right fore paw useless and his jaw white with foam fling himself into the circle and lay gasp at mowgli s foot. 
good hunt. under whose headship. say phao gravely. 
good hunt. win tolla be i be the answer. he mean that he be a solitary wolf fend for himself his mate and his cub in some lonely lair a do many wolf in the south. win tolla mean an outlier one who lie out from any pack. then he pant and they could see his heart beat shake him backward and forward. 
what move. say phao for that be the question all the jungle ask after the pheeal cry. 
the dhole the dhole of the dekkan red dog the killer. they come north from the south say the dekkan be empty and kill out by the way. when this moon be new there be four to me my mate and three cub. she would teach them to kill on the grass plain hide to drive the buck a we do who be of the open. at midnight i hear them together full tongue on the trail. at the dawn wind i find them stiff in the grass four free people four when this moon be new. then seek i my blood right and find the dhole. 
how many. say mowgli quickly. the pack growl deep in their throat. 
i do not know. three of them will kill no more but at the last they drive me like the buck. on my three leg they drive me. look free people. 
he thrust out his mangle fore foot all dark with dry blood. there be cruel bite low down on his side and his throat be tear and worry. 
eat say akela rise up from the meat mowgli have bring him and the outlier fling himself on it. 
this shall be no loss he say humbly when he have take off the first edge of his hunger. give me a little strength free people and i also will kill. my lair be empty that be full when this moon be new and the blood debt be not all pay. 
phao hear his teeth crack on a haunch bone and grunt approvingly. 
we shall need those jaw say he. be there cub with the dhole. 
nay nay. red hunter all. grow dog of their pack heavy and strong for all that they eat lizard in the dekkan. 
what win tolla have say mean that the dhole the red hunt dog of the dekkan be move to kill and the pack know well that even the tiger will surrender a new kill to the dhole. they drive straight through the jungle and what they meet they pull down and tear to piece. though they be not a big nor half a cunning a the wolf they be very strong and very numerous. the dhole for instance do not begin to call themselves a pack till they be a hundred strong. whereas forty wolf make a very fair pack indeed. mowgli s wandering have take him to the edge of the high grassy down of the dekkan and he have see the fearless dhole sleep and play and scratch themselves in the little hollow and tussock that they use for lair. he despise and hat them because they do not smell like the free people because they do not live in cave and above all because they have hair between their toe while he and his friend be clean foot. but he know for hathi have tell him what a terrible thing a dhole hunt pack be. even hathi move aside from their line and until they be kill or till game be scarce they will go forward. 
akela know something of the dhole too for he say to mowgli quietly it be good to die in a full pack than leaderless and alone. this be good hunt and my last. but a men live thou hast very many more night and day little brother. go north and lie down and if any live after the dhole ha go by he shall bring thee word of the fight. 
ah say mowgli quite gravely must i go to the marsh and catch little fish and sleep in a tree or must i ask help of the bandar log and crack nut while the pack fight below. 
it be to the death say akela. thou hast never meet the dhole the red killer. even the strip one. 
aowa. aowa. say mowgli pettingly. i have kill one strip ape and sure be i in my stomach that shere khan would have leave his own mate for meat to the dhole if he have wind a pack across three range. listen now. there be a wolf my father and there be a wolf my mother and there be an old gray wolf. not too wise. he be white now. be my father and my mother. therefore i he raise his voice i say that when the dhole come and if the dhole come mowgli and the free people be of one skin for that hunt. and i say by the bull that buy me by the bull bagheera pay for me in the old day which ye of the pack do not remember i say that the tree and the river may hear and hold fast if i forget. i say that this my knife shall be a a tooth to the pack and i do not think it be so blunt. this be my word which ha go from me. 
thou dost not know the dhole man with a wolf s tongue say win tolla. i look only to clear the blood debt against them ere they have me in many piece. they move slowly kill out a they go but in two day a little strength will come back to me and i turn again for the blood debt. but for ye free people my word be that ye go north and eat but little for a while till the dhole be go. there be no meat in this hunt. 
hear the outlier. say mowgli with a laugh. free people we must go north and dig lizard and rat from the bank l by any chance we meet the dhole. he must kill out our hunt ground while we lie hide in the north till it please him to give u our own again. he be a dog and the pup of a dog red yellow belly lairless and haired between every toe. he count his cub six and eight at the litter a though he be chikai the little leap rat. surely we must run away free people and beg leave of the people of the north for the offal of dead cattle. ye know the say. north be the vermin. south be the louse. we be the jungle. choose ye o choose. it be good hunt. for the pack for the full pack for the lair and the litter. for the in kill and the out kill. for the mate that drive the doe and the little little cub within the cave. it be meet. it be meet. it be meet. 
the pack answer with one deep crash bark that sound in the night like a big tree fall. it be meet. they cry. stay with these say mowgli to the four. we shall need every tooth. phao and akela must make ready the battle. i go to count the dog. 
it be death. win tolla cry half rise. what can such a hairless one do against the red dog. even the strip one remember. 
thou art indeed an outlier mowgli call back. but we will speak when the dhole be dead. good hunt all. 
he hurry off into the darkness wild with excitement hardly look where he set foot and the natural consequence be that he trip full length over kaa s great coil where the python lay watch a deer path near the river. 
kssha. say kaa angrily. be this jungle work to stamp and tramp and undo a night s hunt when the game be move so well too. 
the fault be mine say mowgli pick himself up. indeed i be seek thee flathead but each time we meet thou art long and broad by the length of my arm. there be none like thee in the jungle wise old strong and most beautiful kaa. 
now whither doe this trail lead. kaa s voice be gentle. not a moon since there be a manling with a knife throw stone at my head and call me bad little tree cat name because i lay asleep in the open. 
ay and turn every drive deer to all the wind and mowgli be hunt and this same flathead be too deaf to hear his whistle and leave the deer road free mowgli answer composedly sit down among the paint coil. 
now this same manling come with soft tickle word to this same flathead tell him that he be wise and strong and beautiful and this same old flathead belief and make a place thus for this same stone throw manling and art thou at ease now. could bagheera give thee so good a rest place. 
kaa have a usual make a sort of soft half hammock of himself under mowgli s weight. the boy reach out in the darkness and gather in the supple cable like neck till kaa s head rest on his shoulder and then he tell him all that have happen in the jungle that night. 
wise i may be say kaa at the end. but deaf i surely be. else i should have hear the pheeal. small wonder the eater of grass be uneasy. how many be the dhole. 
i have not yet see. i come hot foot to thee. thou art old than hathi. but oh kaa here mowgli wriggle with sheerjoy it will be good hunt. few of u will see another moon. 
dost thou strike in this. remember thou art a man. and remember what pack cast thee out. let the wolf look to the dog. thou art a man. 
last year s nut be this year s black earth say mowgli. it be true that i be a man but it be in my stomach that this night i have say that i be a wolf. i call the river and the tree to remember. i be of the free people kaa till the dhole ha go by. 
free people kaa grunt. free thief. and thou hast tie thyself into the death knot for the sake of the memory of the dead wolf. this be no good hunt. 
it be my word which i have speak. the tree know the river know. till the dhole have go by my word come not back to me. 
ngssh. this change all trail. i have think to take thee away with me to the northern marsh but the word even the word of a little naked hairless manling be the word. now i kaa say. 
think well flathead l thou tie thyself into the death knot also. i need no word from thee for well i know. 
be it so then say kaa. i will give no word. but what be in thy stomach to do when the dhole come. 
they must swim the waingunga. i think to meet them with my knife in the shallow the pack behind me. and so stab and thrust we a little might turn them down stream or cool their throat. 
the dhole do not turn and their throat be hot say kaa. there will be neither manling nor wolf cub when that hunt be do but only dry bone. 
alala. if we die we die. it will be most good hunt. but my stomach be young and i have not see many rain. i be not wise nor strong. hast thou a good plan kaa. 
i have see a hundred and a hundred rain. ere hathi cast his milk tush my trail be big in the dust. by the first egg i be old than many tree and i have see all that the jungle ha do. 
but this be new hunt say mowgli. never before have the dhole cross our trail. 
what be ha be. what will be be no more than a forget year strike backward. be still while i count those my year. 
for a long hour mowgli lay back among the coil while kaa his head motionless on the grind think of all that he have see and know since the day he come from the egg. the light seem to go out of his eye and leave them like stale opal and now and again he make little stiff pass with his head right and leave a though he be hunt in his sleep. mowgli doze quietly for he know that there be nothing like sleep before hunt and he be train to take it at any hour of the day or night. 
then he felt kaa s back grow big and broad below him a the huge python puff himself out hiss with the noise of a sword draw from a steel scabbard. 
i have see all the dead season kaa say at last and the great tree and the old elephant and the rock that be bare and sharp point ere the moss grow. art thou still alive manling. 
it be only a little after moonset say mowgli. i do not understand. 
hssh. i be again kaa. i know it be but a little time. now we will go to the river and i will show thee what be to be do against the dhole. 
he turn straight a an arrow for the main stream of the waingunga plunge in a little above the pool that hide the peace rock mowgli at his side. 
nay do not swim. i go swiftly. my back little brother. 
mowgli tuck his leave arm round kaa s neck drop his right close to his body and straighten his foot. then kaa breast the current a he alone could and the ripple of the check water stand up in a frill round mowgli s neck and his foot be wave to and fro in the eddy under the python s lash side. a mile or two above the peace rock the waingunga narrow between a gorge of marble rock from eighty to a hundred foot high and the current run like a mill race between and over all manner of ugly stone. but mowgli do not trouble his head about the water. little water in the world could have give him a moment s fear. he be look at the gorge on either side and sniff uneasily for there be a sweetish sourish smell in the air very like the smell of a big ant hill on a hot day. instinctively he lower himself in the water only raise his head to breathe from time to time and kaa come to anchor with a double twist of his tail round a sink rock hold mowgli in the hollow of a coil while the water race on. 
this be the place of death say the boy. why do we come here. 
they sleep say kaa. hathi will not turn aside for the strip one. yet hathi and the strip one together turn aside for the dhole and the dhole they say turn aside for nothing. and yet for whom do the little people of the rock turn aside. tell me master of the jungle who be the master of the jungle. 
these mowgli whisper. it be the place of death. let u go. 
nay look well for they be asleep. it be a it be when i be not the length of thy arm. 
the split and weatherworn rock of the gorge of the waingunga have be use since the begin of the jungle by the little people of the rock the busy furious black wild bee of india. and a mowgli know well all trail turn off half a mile before they reach the gorge. for century the little people have hive and swarm from cleave to cleave and swarm again stain the white marble with stale honey and make their comb tall and deep in the dark of the inner cave where neither man nor beast nor fire nor water have ever touch them. the length of the gorge on both siaes be hang a it be with black shimmery velvet curtain and mowgli sink a he look for those be the clot million of the sleep bee. there be other lump and festoon and thing like decay tree trunk stud on the face of the rock the old comb of past year or new city build in the shadow of the windless gorge and huge mass of spongy rotten trash have roll down and stick among the tree and creeper that cling to the rock face. a he listen he hear more than once the rustle and slide of a honey load comb turn over or fail away somewhere in the dark gallery. then a boom of angry wing and the sullen drip drip drip of the waste honey gutter along till it lipped over some ledge in the open air and sluggishly trickle down on the twig. there be a tiny little beach not five foot broad on one side of the river and that be pile high with the rubbish of uncounted year. there be dead bee drone sweeping and stale comb and wing of maraud moth that have stray in after honey all tumble in smooth pile of the fine black dust. the mere sharp smell of it be enough to frighten anything that have no wing and know what the little people be. 
kaa move up stream again till he come to a sandy bar at the head of the gorge. 
here be this season s kill say he. look. on the bank lay the skeleton of a couple of young deer and a buffalo. mowgli could see that neither wolf nor jackal have touch the hone which be lay out naturally. 
they come beyond the line. they do not know the law murmur mowgli and the little people kill them. let u go ere they wake. 
they do not wake till the dawn say kaa. now i will tell thee. a hunt buck from the south many many rain ago come hither from the south not know the jungle a pack on his trail. be make blind by fear he leap from above the pack run by sight for they be hot and blind on the trail. the sun be high and the little people be many and very angry. many too be those of the pack who leap into the waingunga but they be dead ere they take water. those who do not leap die also in the rock above. but the buck live. 
how. 
because he come first run for his life leap ere the little people be aware and be in the river when they gather to kill. the pack follow be altogether lose under the weight of the little people. 
the buck live. mowgli repeat slowly. 
at least he do not die then though none wait his come down with a strong body to hold him safe against the water a a certain old fat deaf yellow flathead would wait for a manling yea though there be all the dhole of the dekkan on his trail. what be in thy stomach. kaa s head be close to mowgli s ear. and it be a little time before the boy answer. 
it be to pull the very whisker of death but kaa thou art indeed the wise of all the jungle. 
so many have say. look now if the dhole follow thee. 
a surely they will follow. ho. ho. i have many little thorn under my tongue to prick into their hide. 
if they follow thee hot and blind look only at thy shoulder those who do not die up above will take water either here or low down for the little people will rise up and cover them. now the waingunga be hungry water and they will have no kaa to hold them but will go down such a live to the shallow by the seeonee lair and there thy pack may meet them by the throat. 
ahai. eowawa. good could not be till the rain fall in the dry season. there be now only the little matter of the run and the leap. i will make me know to the dhole so that they shall follow me very closely. 
hast thou see the rock above thee. from the landward side. 
indeed no. that i have forget. 
go look. it be all rotten grind cut and full of hole. one of thy clumsy foot set down without see would end the hunt. see i leave thee here and for thy sake only i will carry word to the pack that they may know where to look for the dhole. for myself i be not of one skin with any wolf. 
when kaa dislike an acquaintance he could be more unpleasant than any of the jungle people except perhaps bagheera. he swim down stream and opposite the rock he come on phao and akela listen to the night noise. 
hssh. dog he say cheerfully. the dhole will come down stream. if ye be not afraid ye can kill them in the shallow. 
when come they. say phao. and where be my man cub. say akela. 
they come when they come say kaa. wait and see. a for thy man cub from whom thou hast take a word and so lay him open to death thy man cub be with me and if he be not already dead the fault be none of thine bleach dog. wait here for the dhole and be glad that the man cub and i strike on thy side. 
kaa flash up stream again and moor himself in the middle of the gorge look upward at the line of the cliff. presently he saw mowgli s head move against the star and then there be a whizz in the air the keen clean schloop of a body fall foot first and next minute the boy be at rest again in the loop of kaa s body. 
it be no leap by night say mowgli quietly. i have jump twice a far for sport. but that be an evil place above low bush and gully that go down very deep all full of the little people. i have put big stone one above the other by the side of three gully. these i shall throw down with my foot in run and the little people will rise up behind me very angry. 
that be man s talk and man s cunning say kaa. thou art wise but the little people be always angry. 
nay at twilight all wing near and far rest for a while. i will play with the dhole at twilight for the dhole hunt best by day. he follow now win tolla s blood trail. 
chil doe not leave a dead ox nor the dhole the blood trail say kaa. 
then i will make him a new blood trail of his own blood if i can and give him dirt to eat. thou wilt stay here kaa till i come again with my dhole. 
ay but what if they kill thee in the jungle or the little people kill thee before thou canst leap down to the river. 
when to morrow come we will kill for to morrow say mowgli quote a jungle say. and again when i be dead it be time to sing the death song. good hunt kaa. 
he loose his arm from the python s neck and go down the gorge like a log in a freshet paddle toward the far bank where he find slack water and laugh aloud from sheer happiness. there be nothing mowgli like good than a he himself say to pull the whisker of death and make the jungle know that he be their overlord. he have often with baloo s help rob bee nest in single tree and he know that the little people hat the smell of wild garlic. so he gather a small bundle of it tie it up with a bark string and then follow win tolla s blood trail a it run southerly from the lair for some five mile look at the tree with his head on one side and chuckle a he look. 
mowgli the frog have i be say he to himself. mowgli the wolf have i say that i be. now mowgli the ape must i be before i be mowgli the buck. at the end i shall be mowgli the man. ho. and he slide his thumb along the eighteen inch blade of his knife. 
win tolla s trail all rank with dark blood spot run under a forest of thick tree that grow close together and stretch away north eastward gradually grow thin and thin to within two mile of the bee rock. from the last tree to the low scrub of the bee rock be open country where there be hardly cover enough to hide a wolf. mowgli trot along under the tree judge distance between branch and branch occasionally climb up a trunk and take a trial leap from one tree to another till he come to the open grind which he study very carefully for an hour. then he turn pick up win tolla s trail where he have leave it settle himself in a tree with an outrun branch some eight foot from the grind and sit still sharpen his knife on the sole of his foot and sing to himself. 
a little before mid day when the sun be very warm he hear the patter of foot and smelt the abominable smell of the dhole pack a they trot pitilessly along win tolla s trail. see from above the red dhole doe not look half the size of a wolf but mowgli know how strong his foot and jaw be. he watch the sharp bay head of the leader snuff along the trail and give him good hunt. 
the brute look up and his companion halt behind him score and score of red dog with low hang tail heavy shoulder weak quarter and bloody mouth. the dhole be a very silent people a a rule and they have no manner even in their own jungle. fully two hundred must have gather below him but he could see that the leader sniff hungrily on win tolla s trail and try to drag the pack forward. that would never do or they would be at the lair in broad daylight and mowgli mean to hold them under his tree till dusk. 
by whose leave do ye come here. say mowgli. 
all jungle be our jungle be the reply and the dhole that give it bar his white teeth. mowgli look down with a smile and imitate perfectly the sharp chitter chatter of chikai the leap rat of the dekkan mean the dhole to understand that he consider them no good than chikai. the pack close up round the tree trunk and the leader bay savagely call mowgli a tree ape. for an answer mowgli stretch down one naked leg and wriggle his bare toe just above the leader s head. that be enough and more than enough to wake the pack to stupid rage. those who have hair between their toe do not care to be remind of it. mowgli catch his foot away a the leader leap up and say sweetly. dog red dog. go back to the dekkan and eat lizard. go to chikai thy brother dog dog red red dog. there be hair between every toe. he twiddle his toe a second time. 
come down ere we starve thee out hairless ape. yell the pack and this be exactly what mowgli want. he lay himself down along the branch his cheek to the bark his right arm free and there he tell the pack what he think and know about them their manner their custom their mate and their puppy. there be no speech in the world so rancorous and so sting a the language the jungle people use to show scorn and contempt. when you come to think of it you will see how this must be so. a mowgli tell kaa he have many little thorn under his tongue and slowly and deliberately he drive the dhole from silence to growl from growl to yell and from yell to hoarse slavery raving. they try to answer his taunt but a cub might a well have try to answer kaa in a rage. and all the while mowgli s right hand lay crook at his side ready for action his foot lock round the branch. the big bay leader have leap many time in the air but mowgli dare not risk a false blow. at last make furious beyond his natural strength he bound up seven or eight foot clear of the grind. then mowgli s hand shoot out like the head of a tree snake and grip him by the scruff of his neck and the branch shake with the jar a his weight fell back almost wrench mowgli to the grind. but he never loose his grip and inch by inch he haul the beast hang like a drown jackal up on the branch. with his leave hand he reach for his knife and cut off the red bushy tail fling the dhole back to earth again. that be all he need. the pack would not go forward on win tolla s trail now till they have kill mowgli or mowgli have kill them. he saw them settle down in circle with a quiver of the haunch that mean they be go to stay and so he climb to a high crotch settle his back comfortably and go to sleep. 
after three or four hour he wake and count the pack. they be all there silent husky and dry with eye of steel. the sun be begin to sink. in half an hour the little people of the rock would be end their labour and a you know the dhole doe not fight best in the twilight. 
i do not need such faithful watcher he say politely stand up on a branch but i will remember this. ye be true dhole but to my think over much of one kind. for that reason i do not give the big lizard eater his tail again. art thou not please red dog. 
i myself will tear out thy stomach. yell the leader scratch at the foot of the tree. 
nay but consider wise rat of the dekkan. there will now be many litter of little tailless red dog yea with raw red stump that sting when the sand be hot. go home red dog and cry that an ape ha do this. ye will not go. come then with me and i will make you very wise. 
he move bandar log fashion into the next tree and so on into the next and the next the pack follow with lift hungry head. now and then he would pretend to fall and the pack would tumble one over the other in their haste to be at the death. it be a curious sight the boy with the knife that shine in the low sunlight a it sift through the upper branch and the silent pack with their red coat all aflame huddle and follow below. when he come to the last tree he take the garlic and rub himself all over carefully and the dhole yell with scorn. ape with a wolf s tongue dost thou think to cover thy scent. they say. we follow to the death. 
take thy tail say mowgli fling it back along the course he have take. the pack instinctively rush after it. and follow now to the death. 
he have slip down the tree trunk and head like the wind in bare foot for the bee rock before the dhole saw what he would do. 
they give one deep howl and settle down to the long lob canter that can at the last run down anything that run. mowgli know their pack pace to be much slow than that of the wolf or he would never have risk a two mile run in full sight. they be sure that the boy be theirs at last and he be sure that he hold them to play with a he please. all his trouble be to keep them sufficiently hot behind him to prevent their turn off too soon. he run cleanly evenly and springily. the tailless leader not five yard behind him. and the pack tail out over perhaps a quarter of a mile of grind crazy and blind with the rage of slaughter. so he keep his distance by ear reserve his last effort for the rush across the bee rock. 
the little people have go to sleep in the early twilight for it be not the season of late blossom flower. but a mowgli s first foot fall ring hollow on the hollow grind he hear a sound a though all the earth be hum. then he run a he have never run in his life before spurn aside one two three of the pile of stone into the dark sweet smell gully. hear a roar like the roar of the sea in a cave. saw with the tail of his eye the air grow dark behind him. saw the current of the waingunga far below and a flat diamond shape head in the water. leap outward with all his strength the tailless dhole snap at his shoulder in mid air and drop foot first to the safety of the river breathless and triumphant. there be not a sting upon him for the smell of the garlic have check the little people for just the few second that he be among them. when he rise kaa s coil be steady him and thing be bound over the edge of the cliff great lump it seem of cluster bee fall like plummet. but before any lump touch water the bee fly upward and the body of a dhole whirl down stream. overhead they could hear furious short yell that be drown in a roar like breaker the roar of the wing of the little people of the rock. some of the dhole too have fall into the gully that communicate with the underground cave and there choke and fight and snap among the tumble honeycomb and at last bear up even when they be dead on the heave wave of bee beneath them shoot out of some hole in the river face to roll over on the black rubbish heap. there be dhole who have leap short into the tree on the cliff and the bee blot out their shape. but the great number of them madden by the sting have fling themselves into the river. and a kaa say the waingunga be hungry water. 
kaa hold mowgli fast till the boy have recover his breath. 
we may not stay here he say. the little people be rouse indeed. come. 
swim low and dive a often a he could mowgli go down the river knife in hand. 
slowly slowly say kaa. one tooth doe not kill a hundred unless it be a cobra s and many of the dhole take water swiftly when they saw the little people rise. 
the more work for my knife then. phai. how the little people follow. mowgli sink again. the face of the water be blanket with wild bee buzz sullenly and sting all they find. 
nothing be ever yet lose by silence say kaa no sting could penetrate his scale and thou hast all the long night for the hunt. hear them howl. 
nearly half the pack have see the trap their fellow rush into and turn sharp aside have fling themselves into the water where the gorge break down in steep bank. their cry of rage and their threat against the tree ape who have bring them to their shame mix with the yell and growl of those who have be punish by the little people. to remain ashore be death and every dhole know it. their pack be sweep along the current down to the deep eddy of the peace pool but even there the angry little people follow and force them to the water again. mowgli could hear the voice of the tailless leader bid his people hold on and kill out every wolf in seeonee. but he do not waste his time in listen. 
one kill in the dark behind u. snap a dhole. here be taint water. 
mowgli have dive forward like an otter twitch a struggle dhole under water before he could open his mouth and dark ring rise a the body plop up turn on it side. the dhole try to turn but the current prevent them and the little people dart at the head and ear and they could hear the challenge of the seeonee pack grow loud and deep in the gather darkness. again mowgli dive and again a dhole go under and rise dead and again the clamour break out at the rear of the pack. some howl that it be best to go ashore others call on their leader to lead them back to the dekkan and others bid mowgli show himself and be kill. 
they come to the fight with two stomach and several voice say kaa. the rest be with thy brother below yonder the little people go back to sleep. they have chase u far. now i too turn back for i be not of one skin with any wolf. good hunt little brother and remember the dhole bite low. 
a wolf come run along the bank on three leg leap up and down lay his head sideways close to the grind hunch his back and break high into the air a though he be play with his cub. it be win tolla the outlier and he say never a word but continue his horrible sport beside the dhole. they have be long in the water now and be swim wearily their coat drench and heavy their bushy tail drag like sponge so tire and shake that they too be silent watch the pair of blaze eye that move abreast. 
this be no good hunt say one pant. 
good hunt. say mowgli a he rise boldly at the brute s side and send the long knife home behind the shoulder push hard to avoid his die snap. 
art thou there man cub. say win tolla across the water. 
ask of the dead outlier mowgli reply. have none come down stream. i have fill these dog mouth with dirt. i have trick them in the broad daylight and their leader lack his tail but here be some few for thee still. whither shall i drive them. 
i will wait say win tolla. the night be before me. 
near and near come the bay of the seeonee wolf. for the pack for the full pack it be meet. and a bend in the river drive the dhole forward among the sand and shoal opposite the lair. 
then they saw their mistake. they should have land half a mile high up and rush the wolf on dry grind. now it be too late. the bank be line with burn eye and except for the horrible pheeal that have never stop since sundown there be no sound in the jungle. it seem a though win tolla be fawn on them to come ashore. and turn and take hold. say the leader of the dhole. the entire pack fling themselves at the shore thresh and squattering through the shoal water till the face of the waingunga be all white and tear and the great ripple go from side to side like bow wave from a boat. mowgli follow the rush stab and slice a the dhole huddle together rush up the river beach in one wave. 
then the long fight begin heave and strain and split and scatter and narrow and broaden along the red wet sand and over and between the tangle tree root and through and among the bush and in and out of the grass clump. for even now the dhole be two to one. but they meet wolf fight for all that make the pack and not only the short high deep chested white tusk hunter of the pack but the anxious eye lahinis the she wolf of the lair a the say be fight for their litter with here and there a yearling wolf his first coat still half woolly tug and grapple by their side. a wolf you must know fly at the throat or snap at the flank while a dhole by preference bite at the belly. so when the dhole be struggle out of the water and have to raise their head the odds be with the wolf. on dry land the wolf suffer. but in the water or ashore mowgli s knife come and go without cease. the four have worry their way to his side. gray brother crouch between the boy s knee be protect his stomach while the others guard his back and either side or stand over him when the shock of a leap yell dhole who have throw himself full on the steady blade bore him down. for the rest it be one tangle confusion a lock and sway mob that move from right to leave and from leave to right along the bank. and also grind round and round slowly on it own centre. here would be a heave mound like a water blister in a whirlpool which would break like a water blister and throw up four or five mangle dog each strive to get back to the centre. here would be a single wolf bear down by two or three dhole laboriously drag them forward and sink the while. here a yearling cub would be hold up by the pressure round him though he have be kill early while his mother craze with dumb rage roll over and over snap and pass on. and in the middle of the thick press perhaps one wolf and one dhole forget everything else would be manoeuvre for first hold till they be whirl away by a rush of furious fighter. once mowgli pass akela a dhole on either flank and his all but toothless jaw close over the loin of a third. and once he saw phao his teeth set in the throat of a dhole tug the unwilling beast forward till the yearling could finish him. but the bulk of the fight be blind flurry and smother in the dark. hit trip and tumble yelp groan and worry worry worry round him and behind him and above him. a the night wear on the quick giddy go round motion increase. the dhole be cow and afraid to attack the strong wolf but do not yet dare to run away. mowgli felt that the end be come soon and content himself with strike merely to cripple. the yearling be grow bold. there be time now and again to breathe and pas a word to a friend and the mere flicker of the knife would sometimes turn a dog aside. 
the meat be very near the bone gray brother yell. he be bleed from a score of flesh wound. 
but the bone be yet to be crack say mowgli. eowawa. thus do we do in the jungle. the red blade run like a flame along the side of a dhole whose hind quarter be hide by the weight of a cling wolf. 
my kill. snort the wolf through his wrinkle nostril. leave him to me. 
be thy stomach still empty outlier. say mowgli. win tolla be fearfully punish but his grip have paralyse the dhole who could not turn round and reach him. 
by the bull that buy me say mowgli with a bitter laugh it be the tailless one. and indeed it be the big bay colour leader. 
it be not wise to kill cub and lahinis mowgli go on philosophically wipe the blood out of his eye unless one ha also kill the outlier. and it be in my stomach that this win tolla kill thee. 
a dhole leap to his leader s aid. but before his teeth have find win tolla s flank mowgli s knife be in his throat and gray brother take what be leave. 
and thus do we do in the jungle say mowgli. 
win tolla say not a word only his jaw be close and close on the backbone a his life ebb. the dhole shudder his head drop and he lay still and win tolla drop above him. 
huh. the blood debt be pay say mowgli. sing the song win tolla. 
he hunt no more say gray brother. and akela too be silent this long time. 
the bone be crack. thunder phao son of phaona. they go. kill kill out o hunter of the free people. 
dhole after dhole be slink away from those dark and bloody sand to the river to the thick jungle up stream or down stream a he saw the road clear. 
the debt. the debt. shout mowgli. pay the debt. they have slay the lone wolf. let not a dog go. 
he be fly to the river knife in hand to check any dhole who dare to take water when from under a mound of nine dead rise akela s head and fore quarter and mowgli drop on his knee beside the lone wolf. 
say i not it would be my last fight. akela gasp. it be good hunt. and thou little brother. 
i live have kill many. 
even so. i die and i would i would die by thee little brother. 
mowgli take the terrible scar head on his knee and put his arm round the tear neck. 
it be long since the old day of shere khan and a man cub that roll naked in the dust. 
nay nay i be a wolf. i be of one skin with the free people mowgli cry. it be no will of mine that i be a man. 
thou art a man little brother wolfling of my watch. thou art a man or else the pack have flee before the dhole. my life i owe to thee and to day thou hast save the pack even a once i save thee. hast thou forget. all debt be pay now. go to thine own people. i tell thee again eye of my eye this hunt be end. go to thine own people. 
i will never go. i will hunt alone in the jungle. i have say it. 
after the summer come the rain and after the rain come the spring. go back before thou art drive. 
who will drive me. 
mowgli will drive mowgli. go back to thy people. go to man. 
when mowgli drive mowgli i will go mowgli answer. 
there be no more to say say akela. little brother canst thou raise me to my foot. i also be a leader of the free people. 
very carefully and gently mowgli lift the body aside and raise akela to his foot both arm round him and the lone wolf draw a long breath and begin the death song that a leader of the pack should sing when he dy. it gather strength a he go on lift and lift and ring far across the river till it come to the last good hunt. and akela shake himself clear of mowgli for an instant and leap into the air fell backward dead upon his last and most terrible kill. 
mowgli sit with his head on his knee careless of anything else while the remnant of the fly dhole be be overtake and run down by the merciless lahinis. little by little the cry die away and the wolf return limp a their wound stiffen to take stock of the loss. fifteen of the pack a well a half a dozen lahinis lay dead by the river and of the others not one be unmarked. and mowgli sit through it all till the cold daybreak when phao s wet red muzzle be drop in his hand and mowgli draw back to show the gaunt body of akela. 
good hunt. say phao a though akela be still alive and then over his bite shoulder to the others. howl dog. a wolf ha die to night. 
but of all the pack of two hundred fight dhole whose boast be that all jungle be their jungle and that no live thing could stand before them not one return to the dekkan to carry that word. 
chil s song. 
[this be the song that chil sing a the kite drop down one after another to the river bed when the great fight be finish. chil be good friend with everybody but he be a cold blood kind of creature at heart because he know that almost everybody in the jungle come to him in the long run. ]. 
these be my companion go forth by night. for chil. look you for chil. now come i to whistle them the end of the fight. chil. vanguard of chil. word they give me overhead of quarry newly slay word i give them underfoot of buck upon the plain. here s an end of every trail they shall not speak again. 
they that call the hunt cry they that follow fast. for chil. look you for chil. they that bid the sambhur wheel or pin him a he pass. chil. vanguard of chil. they that lag behind the scent they that run before they that shun the level horn they that overbear. here s an end of every trail they shall not follow more. these be my companion. pity twas they die. for chil. look you for chil. now come i to comfort them that know them in their pride. chil. vanguard of chil. tattered flank and sink eye open mouth and red lock and lank and lone they lie the dead upon their dead. here s an end of every trail and here my host be feed. 
the spring run. 
man go to man. cry the challenge through the jungle. he that be our brother go away. hear now and judge o ye people of the jungle answer who shall turn him who shall stay. 
man go to man. he be weep in the jungle. he that be our brother sorrow sore. man go to man. oh we love him in the jungle. to the man trail where we may not follow more. 
the second year after the great fight with red dog and the death of akela mowgli must have be nearly seventeen year old. he look old for hard exercise the best of good eat and bath whenever he felt in the least hot or dusty have give him strength and growth far beyond his age. he could swing by one hand from a top branch for half an hour at a time when he have occasion to look along the tree road. he could stop a young buck in mid gallop and throw him sideways by the head. he could even jerk over the big blue wild boar that live in the marsh of the north. the jungle people who use to fear him for his wit fear him now for his strength and when he move quietly on his own affair the mere whisper of his come clear the wood path. and yet the look in his eye be always gentle. even when he fight his eye never blaze a bagheera s do. they only grow more and more interest and excite. and that be one of the thing that bagheera himself do not understand. 
he ask mowgli about it and the boy laugh and say. when i miss the kill i be angry. when i must go empty for two day i be very angry. do not my eye talk then. 
the mouth be hungry say bagheera but the eye say nothing. hunt eat or swim it be all one like a stone in wet or dry weather. mowgli look at him lazily from under his long eyelash and a usual the panther s head drop. bagheera know his master. 
they be lie out far up the side of a hill overlook the waingunga and the morning mist hang below them in band of white and green. a the sun rise it change into bubble sea of red gold churn off and let the low ray stripe the dry grass on which mowgli and bagheera be rest. it be the end of the cold weather the leaf and the tree look wear and fade and there be a dry tick rustle everywhere when the wind blow. a little leaf tap tap tap furiously against a twig a a single leaf catch in a current will. it rouse bagheera for he snuff the morning air with a deep hollow cough throw himself on his back and strike with his fore paw at the nod leaf above. 
the year turn he say. the jungle go forward. the time of new talk be near. that leaf know. it be very good. 
the grass be dry mowgli answer pull up a tuft. even eye of the spring [that be a little trumpet shape waxy red flower that run in and out among the grasses] even eye of the spring be shut and. bagheera be it well for the black panther so to lie on his back and beat with his paw in the air a though he be the tree cat. 
aowh. say bagheera. he seem to be think of other thing. 
i say be it well for the black panther so to mouth and cough and howl and roll. remember we be the master of the jungle thou and i. 
indeed yes. i hear man cub. bagheera roll over hurriedly and sit up the dust on his rag black flank. he be just cast his winter coat. we be surely the master of the jungle. who be so strong a mowgli. who so wise. there be a curious drawl in the voice that make mowgli turn to see whether by any chance the black panther be make fun of him for the jungle be full of word that sound like one thing but mean another. i say we be beyond question the master of the jungle bagheera repeat. have i do wrong. i do not know that the man cub no long lay upon the grind. doe he fly then. 
mowgli sit with his elbow on his knee look out across the valley at the daylight. somewhere down in the wood below a bird be try over in a husky reedy voice the first few note of his spring song. it be no more than a shadow of the liquid tumble call he would be pour late but bagheera hear it. 
i say the time of new talk be near growl the panther switch his tail. 
i hear mowgli answer. bagheera why dost thou shake all over. the sun be warm. 
that be ferao the scarlet woodpecker say bagheera. he ha not forget. now i too must remember my song and he begin purr and croon to himself hark back dissatisfy again and again. 
there be no game afoot say mowgli. 
little brother be both thine ear stop. that be no kill word but my song that i make ready against the need. 
i have forget. i shall know when the time of new talk be here because then thou and the others all run away and leave me alone. mowgli speak rather savagely. 
but indeed little brother bagheera begin we do not always. 
i say ye do say mowgli shoot out his forefinger angrily. ye do run away and i who be the master of the jungle must need walk alone. how be it last season when i would gather sugar cane from the field of a man pack. i send a runner i send thee. to hathi bid him to come upon such a night and pluck the sweet grass for me with his trunk. 
he come only two night late say bagheera cower a little. and of that long sweet grass that please thee so he gather more than any man cub could eat in all the night of the rain. that be no fault of mine. 
he do not come upon the night when i send him the word. no he be trumpet and run and roar through the valley in the moonlight. his trail be like the trail of three elephant for he would not hide among the tree. he dance in the moonlight before the house of the man pack. i saw him and yet he would not come to me. and i be the master of the jungle. 
it be the time of new talk say the panther always very humble. perhaps little brother thou didst not that time call him by a master word. listen to ferao and be glad. 
mowgli s bad temper seem to have boil itself away. he lay back with his head on his arm his eye shut. i do not know nor do i care he say sleepily. let u sleep bagheera. my stomach be heavy in me. make me a rest for my head. 
the panther lay down again with a sigh because he could hear ferao practise and repractising his song against the springtime of new talk a they say. 
in an indian jungle the season slide one into the other almost without division. there seem to be only two the wet and the dry. but if you look closely below the torrent of rain and the cloud of char and dust you will find all four go round in their regular ring. spring be the most wonderful because she ha not to cover a clean bare field with new leaf and flower but to drive before her and to put away the hang on over survive raffle of half green thing which the gentle winter ha suffer to live and to make the partly dress stale earth feel new and young once more. and this she doe so well that there be no spring in the world like the jungle spring. 
there be one day when all thing be tire and the very smell a they drift on the heavy air be old and use. one cannot explain this but it feel so. then there be another day to the eye nothing whatever ha change when all the smell be new and delightful and the whisker of the jungle people quiver to their root and the winter hair come away from their side in long draggle lock. then perhaps a little rain fall and all the tree and the bush and the bamboo and the moss and the juicy leave plant wake with a noise of grow that you can almost hear and under this noise run day and night a deep hum. that be the noise of the spring a vibrate boom which be neither bee nor fall water nor the wind in tree top but the purr of the warm happy world. 
up to this year mowgli have always delight in the turn of the season. it be he who generally saw the first eye of the spring deep down among the grass and the first bank of spring cloud which be like nothing else in the jungle. his voice could be hear in all sort of wet star light blossom place help the big frog through their chorus or mock the little upside down owl that hoot through the white night. like all his people spring be the season he choose for his flittings move for the mere joy of rush through the warm air thirty forty or fifty mile between twilight and the morning star and come back pant and laugh and wreathe with strange flower. the four do not follow him on these wild ringing of the jungle but go off to sing song with other wolf. the jungle people be very busy in the spring and mowgli could hear them grunt and scream and whistle accord to their kind. their voice then be different from their voice at other time of the year and that be one of the reason why spring in the jungle be call the time of new talk. 
but that spring a he tell bagheera his stomach be change in him. ever since the bamboo shoot turn spotty brown he have be look forward to the morning when the smell should change. but when the morning come and mor the peacock blaze in bronze and blue and gold cry it aloud all along the misty wood and mowgli open his mouth to send on the cry the word choke between his teeth and a feel come over him that begin at his toe and end in his hair a feel of pure unhappiness so that he look himself over to be sure that he have not tread on a thorn. mor cry the new smell the other bird take it over and from the rock by the waingunga he hear bagheera s hoarse scream something between the scream of an eagle and the neigh of a horse. there be a yell and scatter of bandar log in the new bud branch above and there stand mowgli his chest fill to answer mor sink in little gasp a the breath be drive out of it by this unhappiness. 
he star all round him but he could see no more than the mock bandar log scud through the tree and mor his tail spread in full splendour dance on the slope below. 
the smell have change scream mor. good hunt little brother. where be thy answer. 
little brother good hunt. whistle chil the kite and his mate swoop down together. the two baffed under mowgli s nose so close that a pinch of downy white feather brush away. 
a light spring rain elephant rain they call it drive across the jungle in a belt half a mile wide leave the new leaf wet and nod behind and die out in a double rainbow and a light roll of thunder. the spring hum break out for a minute and be silent but all the jungle folk seem to be give tongue at once. all except mowgli. 
i have eat good food he say to himself. i have drink good water. nor doe my throat burn and grow small a it do when i bite the blue spot root that oo the turtle say be clean food. but my stomach be heavy and i have give very bad talk to bagheera and others people of the jungle and my people. now too i be hot and now i be cold and now i be neither hot nor cold but angry with that which i cannot see. huhu. it be time to make a run. to night i will cross the range. yes i will make a spring run to the marsh of the north and back again. i have hunt too easily too long. the four shall come with me for they grow a fat a white grub. 
he call but never one of the four answer. they be far beyond earshot sing over the spring song the moon and sambhur song with the wolf of the pack. for in the spring time the jungle people make very little difference between the day and the night. he give the sharp bark note but his only answer be the mock maiou of the little spot tree cat wind in and out among the branch for early bird nest. at this he shake all over with rage and half draw his knife. then he become very haughty though there be no one to see him and stalk severely down the hillside chin up and eyebrow down. but never a single one of his people ask him a question for they be all too busy with their own affair. 
yes say mowgli to himself though in his heart he know that he have no reason. let the red dhole come from the dekkan or the red flower dance among the bamboo and all the jungle run whine to mowgli call him great elephant name. but now because eye of the spring be red and mor forsooth must show his naked leg in some spring dance the jungle go mad a tabaqui. by the bull that buy me. be i the master of the jungle or be i not. be silent. what do ye here. 
a couple of young wolf of the pack be canter down a path look for open grind in which to fight. you will remember that the law of the jungle forbid fight where the pack can see. their neck bristle be a stiff a wire and they bay furiously crouch for the first grapple. mowgli leap forward catch one outstretched throat in either hand expect to fling the creature backward a he have often do in game or pack hunt. but he have never before interfere with a spring fight. the two leap forward and dash him aside and without word to waste roll over and over close lock. 
mowgli be on his foot almost before he fell his knife and his white teeth be bar and at that minute he would have kill both for no reason but that they be fight when he wish them to be quiet although every wolf ha full right under the law to fight. he dance round them with lower shoulder and quiver hand ready to send in a double blow when the first flurry of the scuffle should be over. but while he wait the strength seem to ebb from his body the knife point lower and he sheathe the knife and watch. 
i have surely eat poison he sigh at last. since i break up the council with the red flower since i kill shere khan none of the pack could fling me aside. and these be only tail wolf in the pack little hunter. my strength be go from me and presently i shall die. oh mowgli why dost thou not kill them both. 
the fight go on till one wolf run away and mowgli be leave alone on the tear and bloody grind look now at his knife and now at his leg and arm while the feel of unhappiness he have never know before cover him a water cover a log. 
he kill early that even and eat but little so a to be in good fettle for his spring run and he eat alone because all the jungle people be away sing or fight. it be a perfect white night a they call it. all green thing seem to have make a month s growth since the morning. the branch that be yellow leave the day before drip sap when mowgli break it. the moss curl deep and warm over his foot the young grass have no cut edge and all the voice of the jungle boom like one deep harp string touch by the moon the moon of new talk who splash her light full on rock and pool slip it between trunk and creeper and sift it through a million leaf. forget his unhappiness mowgli sing aloud with pure delight a he settle into his stride. it be more like fly than anything else for he have choose the long downward slope that lead to the northern marsh through the heart of the main jungle where the springy grind deaden the fall of his foot. a man teach man would have pick his way with many stumble through the cheat moonlight but mowgli s muscle train by year of experience bore him up a though he be a feather. when a rotten log or a hide stone turn under his foot he save himself never check his pace without effort and without think. when he tire of grind go he throw up his hand monkey fashion to the near creeper and seem to float rather than to climb up into the thin branch whence he would follow a tree road till his mood change and he shoot downward in a long leafy curve to the level again. there be still hot hollow surround by wet rock where he could hardly breathe for the heavy scent of the night flower and the bloom along the creeper bud. dark avenue where the moonlight lay in belt a regular a checker marble in a church aisle. thicket where the wet young growth stand breast high about him and throw it arm round his waist. and hilltop crown with break rock where he leap from stone to stone above the lair of the frighten little fox. he would hear very faint and far off the chug drug of a boar sharpen his tusk on a bole. and would come across the great gray brute all alone scribe and rend the bark of a tall tree his mouth drip with foam and his eye blaze like fire. or he would turn aside to the sound of clash horn and hiss grunt and dash past a couple of furious sambhur stagger to and fro with lower head strip with blood that show black in the moonlight. or at some rush ford he would hear jacala the crocodile bellow like a bull or disturb a twin knot of the poison people but before they could strike he would be away and across the glisten shingle and deep in the jungle again. 
so he run sometimes shout sometimes sing to himself the happy thing in all the jungle that night till the smell of the flower warn him that he be near the marsh and those lay far beyond his farthest hunt ground. 
here again a man train man would have sink overhead in three stride but mowgli s foot have eye in them and they pass him from tussock to tussock and clump to quake clump without ask help from the eye in his head. he run out to the middle of the swamp disturb the duck a he run and sit down on a moss coat tree trunk lap in the black water. the marsh be awake all round him for in the spring the bird people sleep very lightly and company of them be come or go the night through. but no one take any notice of mowgli sit among the tall reed hum song without word and look at the sol of his hard brown foot in case of neglect thorn. all his unhappiness seem to have be leave behind in his own jungle and he be just begin a full throat song when it come back again ten time bad than before. 
this time mowgli be frighten. it be here also. he say half aloud. it ha follow me and he look over his shoulder to see whether the it be not stand behind him. there be no one here. the night noise of the marsh go on but never a bird or beast speak to him and the new feel of misery grow. 
i have surely eat poison he say in an awe stricken voice. it must be that carelessly i have eat poison and my strength be go from me. i be afraid and yet it be not i that be afraid mowgli be afraid when the two wolf fight. akela or even phao would have silence them. yet mowgli be afraid. that be true sign i have eat poison. but what do they care in the jungle. they sing and howl and fight and run in company under the moon and i hai mai. i be die in the marsh of that poison which i have eat. he be so sorry for himself that he nearly weep. and after he go on they will find me lie in the black water. nay i will go back to my own jungle and i will die upon the council rock and bagheera whom i love if he be not scream in the valley bagheera perhaps may watch by what be leave for a little l chil use me a he use akela. 
a large warm tear splash down on his knee and miserable a he be mowgli felt happy that he be so miserable if you can understand that upside down sort of happiness. a chil the kite use akela he repeat on the night i save the pack from red dog. he be quiet for a little think of the last word of the lone wolf which you of course remember. now akela say to me many foolish thing before he die for when we die our stomach change. he say. none the le i be of the jungle. 
in his excitement a he remember the fight on waingunga bank he shout the last word aloud and a wild buffalo cow among the reed spring to her knee snort man. 
uhh. say mysa the wild buffalo. mowgli could hear him turn in his wallow. that be no man. it be only the hairless wolf of the seeonee pack. on such night run he to and fro. 
uhh. say the cow drop her head again to graze i think it be man. 
i say no. oh mowgli be it danger. low mysa. 
oh mowgli be it danger. the boy call back mockingly. that be all mysa think for. be it danger. but for mowgli who go to and fro in the jungle by night watch what do ye care. 
how loud he cry. say the cow. thus do they cry mysa answer contemptuously who have tear up the grass know not how to eat it. 
for le than this mowgli groan to himself for le than this even last rain i have prick mysa out of his wallow and ride him through the swamp on a rush halter. he stretch a hand to break one of the feathery reed but draw it back with a sigh. mysa go on steadily chew the cud and the long grass rip where the cow graze. i will not die here he say angrily. mysa who be of one blood with jacala and the pig would see me. let u go beyond the swamp and see what come. never have i run such a spring run hot and cold together. up mowgli. 
he could not resist the temptation of steal across the reed to mysa and prick him with the point of his knife. the great drip bull break out of his wallow like a shell explode while mowgli laugh till he sit down. 
say now that the hairless wolf of the seeonee pack once herd thee mysa he call. 
wolf. thou. the bull snort stamp in the mud. all the jungle know thou wast a herder of tame cattle such a man s brat a shout in the dust by the crop yonder. thou of the jungle. what hunter would have crawl like a snake among the leech and for a muddy jest a jackal s jest have sham me before my cow. come to firm grind and i will i will. mysa froth at the mouth for mysa ha nearly the bad temper of any one in the jungle. 
mowgli watch him puff and blow with eye that never change. when he could make himself hear through the patter mud he say. what man pack lair here by the marsh mysa. this be new jungle to me. 
go north then roar the angry bull for mowgli have prick him rather sharply. it be a naked cow herd s jest. go and tell them at the village at the foot of the marsh. 
the man pack do not love jungle tale nor do i think mysa that a scratch more or le on thy hide be any matter for a council. but i will go and look at this village. yes i will go. softly now. it be not every night that the master of the jungle come to herd thee. 
he step out to the shiver grind on the edge of the marsh well know that mysa would never charge over it and laugh a he run to think of the bull s anger. 
my strength be not altogether go he say. it may be that the poison be not to the bone. there be a star sit low yonder. he look at it between his half shut hand. by the bull that buy me it be the red flower the red flower that i lay beside before before i come even to the first seeonee pack. now that i have see i will finish the run. 
the marsh end in a broad plain where a light twinkle. it be a long time since mowgli have concern himself with the do of men but this night the glimmer of the red flower draw him forward. 
i will look say he a i do in the old day and i will see how far the man pack ha change. 
forget that he be no long in his own jungle where he could do what he please he tread carelessly through the dew load grass till he come to the hut where the light stand. three or four yelp dog give tongue for he be on the outskirt of a village. 
ho. say mowgli sit down noiselessly after send back a deep wolf growl that silence the cur. what come will come. mowgli what hast thou to do any more with the lair of the man pack. he rub his mouth remember where a stone have strike it year ago when the other man pack have cast him out. 
the door of the hut open and a woman stand peer out into the darkness. a child cry and the woman say over her shoulder sleep. it be but a jackal that wake the dog. in a little time morning come. 
mowgli in the grass begin to shake a though he have fever. he know that voice well but to make sure he cry softly surprise to find how man s talk come back messua. o messua. 
who call. say the woman a quiver in her voice. 
hast thou forget. say mowgli. his throat be dry a he speak. 
if it be thou what name do i give thee. say. she have half shut the door and her hand be clutch at her breast. 
nathoo. ohe nathoo. say mowgli for a you remember that be the name messua give him when he first come to the man pack. 
come my son she call and mowgli step into the light and look full at messua the woman who have be good to him and whose life he have save from the man pack so long before. she be old and her hair be gray but her eye and her voice have not change. woman like she expect to find mowgli where she have leave him and her eye travel upward in a puzzle way from his chest to his head that touch the top of the door. 
my son she stammer. and then sink to his foot. but it be no long my son. it be a godling of the wood. ahai. 
a he stand in the red light of the oil lamp strong tall and beautiful his long black hair sweep over his shoulder the knife swing at his neck and his head crown with a wreath of white jasmine he might easily have be mistake for some wild god of a jungle legend. the child half asleep on a cot spring up and shriek aloud with terror. messua turn to soothe him while mowgli stand still look in at the water jar and the cook pot the grain bin and all the other human belonging that he find himself remember so well. 
what wilt thou eat or drink. messua murmur. this be all thine. we owe our life to thee. but art thou him i call nathoo or a godling indeed. 
i be nathoo say mowgli i be very far from my own place. i saw this light and come hither. i do not know thou wast here. 
after we come to khanhiwara messua say timidly the english would have help u against those villager that seek to burn u. rememberest thou. 
indeed i have not forget. 
but when the english law be make ready we go to the village of those evil people and it be no more to be find. 
that also i remember say mowgli with a quiver of his nostril. 
my man therefore take service in the field and at last for indeed he be a strong man we hold a little land here. it be not so rich a the old village but we do not need much we two. 
where be he the man that dig in the dirt when he be afraid on that night. 
he be dead a year. 
and he. mowgli point to the child. 
my son that be bear two rain ago. if thou art a godling give him the favour of the jungle that he may be safe among thy thy people a we be safe on that night. 
she lift up the child who forget his fright reach out to play with the knife that hang on mowgli s chest and mowgli put the little finger aside very carefully. 
and if thou art nathoo whom the tiger carry away messua go on choke he be then thy young brother. give him an elder brother s bless. 
hai mai. what do i know of the thing call a bless. i be neither a godling nor his brother and o mother mother my heart be heavy in me. he shiver a he set down the child. 
like enough say messua bustle among the cook pot. this come of run about the marsh by night. beyond question the fever have soak thee to the marrow. mowgli smile a little at the idea of anything in the jungle hurt him. i will make a fire and thou shalt drink warm milk. put away the jasmine wreath. the smell be heavy in so small a place. 
mowgli sit down mutter with his face in his hand. all manner of strange feeling that he have never felt before be run over him exactly a though he have be poison and he felt dizzy and a little sick. he drink the warm milk in long gulp messua pat him on the shoulder from time to time not quite sure whether he be her son nathoo of the long ago day or some wonderful jungle be but glad to feel that he be at least flesh and blood. 
son she say at last her eye be full of pride have any tell thee that thou art beautiful beyond all men. 
hah. say mowgli for naturally he have never hear anything of the kind. messua laugh softly and happily. the look in his face be enough for her. 
i be the first then. it be right though it come seldom that a mother should tell her son these good thing. thou art very beautiful. never have i look upon such a man. 
mowgli twist his head and try to see over his own hard shoulder and messua laugh again so long that mowgli not know why be force to laugh with her and the child run from one to the other laugh too. 
nay thou must not mock thy brother say messua catch him to her breast. when thou art one half a fair we will marry thee to the young daughter of a king and thou shalt ride great elephant. 
mowgli could not understand one word in three of the talk here. the warm milk be take effect on him after his long run so he curl up and in a minute be deep asleep and messua put the hair back from his eye throw a cloth over him and be happy. jungle fashion he sleep out the rest of that night and all the next day. for his instinct which never wholly sleep warn him there be nothing to fear. he wake at last with a bind that shake the hut for the cloth over his face make him dream of trap. and there he stand his hand on his knife the sleep all heavy in his roll eye ready for any fight. 
messua laugh and set the even meal before him. there be only a few coarse cake bake over the smoky fire some rice and a lump of sour preserve tamarind just enough to go on with till he could get to his even kill. the smell of the dew in the marsh make him hungry and restless. he want to finish his spring run but the child insist on sit in his arm and messua would have it that his long blue black hair must be comb out. so she sing a she comb foolish little baby song now call mowgli her son and now beg him to give some of his jungle power to the child. the hut door be close but mowgli hear a sound he know well and saw messua s jaw drop with horror a a great gray paw come under the bottom of the door and gray brother outside whine a muffle and penitent whine of anxiety and fear. 
out and wait. ye would not come when i call say mowgli in jungle talk without turn his head and the great gray paw disappear. 
do not do not bring thy thy servant with thee say messua. i we have always live at peace with the jungle. 
it be peace say mowgli rise. think of that night on the road to khanhiwara. there be score of such folk before thee and behind thee. but i see that even in springtime the jungle people do not always forget. mother i go. 
messua draw aside humbly he be indeed a wood god she think. but a his hand be on the door the mother in her make her throw her arm round mowgli s neck again and again. 
come back. she whisper. son or no son come back for i love thee look he too grief. 
the child be cry because the man with the shiny knife be go away. 
come back again messua repeat. by night or by day this door be never shut to thee. 
mowgli s throat work a though the cord in it be be pull and his voice seem to be drag from it a he answer i will surely come back. 
and now he say a he put by the head of the fawn wolf on the threshold i have a little cry against thee gray brother. why come ye not all four when i call so long ago. 
so long ago. it be but last night. i we be sing in the jungle the new song for this be the time of new talk. rememberest thou. 
truly truly. 
and a soon a the song be sing gray brother go on earnestly i follow thy trail. i run from all the others and follow hot foot. but o little brother what hast thou do eat and sleep with the man pack. 
if ye have come when i call this have never be say mowgli run much fast. 
and now what be to be. say gray brother. mowgli be go to answer when a girl in a white cloth come down some path that lead from the outskirt of the village. gray brother drop out of sight at once and mowgli back noiselessly into a field of high spring crop. he could almost have touch her with his hand when the warm green stalk close before his face and he disappear like a ghost. the girl scream for she think she have see a spirit and then she give a deep sigh. mowgli part the stalk with his hand and watch her till she be out of sight. 
and now i do not know he say sigh in his turn. why do ye not come when i call. 
we follow thee we follow thee gray brother mumble lick at mowgli s heel. we follow thee always except in the time of the new talk. 
and would ye follow me to the man pack. mowgli whisper. 
do i not follow thee on the night our old pack cast thee out. who wake thee lie among the crop. 
ay but again. 
have i not follow thee to night. 
ay but again and again and it may be again gray brother. 
gray brother be silent. when he speak he growl to himself the black one speak truth. 
and he say. 
man go to man at the last. raksha our mother say. 
so also say akela on the night of red dog mowgli mutter. 
so also say kaa who be wise than u all. 
what dost thou say gray brother. 
they cast thee out once with bad talk. they cut thy mouth with stone. they send buldeo to slay thee. they would have throw thee into the red flower. thou and not i hast say that they be evil and senseless. thou and not i i follow my own people didst let in the jungle upon them. thou and not i didst make song against them more bitter even than our song against red dog. 
i ask thee what thou sayest. 
they be talk a they run. gray brother canter on a while without reply and then he say between bind and bind a it be man cub master of the jungle son of raksha lair brother to me though i forget for a little while in the spring thy trail be my trail thy lair be my lair thy kill be my kill and thy death fight be my death fight. i speak for the three. but what wilt thou say to the jungle. 
that be well think. between the sight and the kill it be not good to wait. go before and cry them all to the council rock and i will tell them what be in my stomach. but they may not come in the time of new talk they may forget me. 
hast thou then forget nothing. snap gray brother over his shoulder a he lay himself down to gallop and mowgli follow think. 
at any other season the news would have call all the jungle together with bristle neck but now they be busy hunt and fight and kill and sing. from one to another gray brother run cry the master of the jungle go back to man. come to the council rock. and the happy eager people only answer he will return in the summer heat. the rain will drive him to lair. run and sing with u gray brother. 
but the master of the jungle go back to man gray brother would repeat. 
eee yoawa. be the time of new talk any le sweet for that. they would reply. so when mowgli heavy hearted come up through the well remember rock to the place where he have be bring into the council he find only the four baloo who be nearly blind with age and the heavy cold blood kaa coil around akela s empty seat. 
thy trail end here then manling. say kaa a mowgli throw himself down his face in his hand. cry thy cry. we be of one blood thou and i man and snake together. 
why do i not die under red dog. the boy moan. my strength be go from me and it be not any poison. by night and by day i hear a double step upon my trail. when i turn my head it be a though one have hide himself from me that instant. i go to look behind the tree and he be not there. i call and none cry again. but it be a though one listen and keep back the answer. i lie down but i do not rest. i run the spring run but i be not make still. i bathe but i be not make cool. the kill sicken me but i have no heart to fight except i kill. the red flower be in my body my bone be water and i know not what i know. 
what need of talk. say baloo slowly turn his head to where mowgli lay. akela by the river say it that mowgli should drive mowgli back to the man pack. i say it. but who listen now to baloo. bagheera where be bagheera this night. he know also. it be the law. 
when we meet at cold lair manling i know it say kaa turn a little in his mighty coil. man go to man at the last though the jungle doe not cast him out. 
the four look at one another and at mowgli puzzle but obedient. 
the jungle doe not cast me out then. mowgli stammer. 
gray brother and the three growl furiously begin so long a we live none shall dare but baloo check them. 
i teach thee the law. it be for me to speak he say. and though i cannot now see the rock before me i see far. little frog take thine own trail. make thy lair with thine own blood and pack and people. but when there be need of foot or tooth or eye or a word carry swiftly by night remember master of the jungle the jungle be thine at call. 
the middle jungle be thine also say kaa. i speak for no small people. 
hai mai my brother cry mowgli throw up his arm with a sob. i know not what i know. i would not go. but i be draw by both foot. how shall i leave these night. 
nay look up little brother baloo repeat. there be no shame in this hunt. when the honey be eat we leave the empty hive. 
have cast the skin say kaa we may not creep into it afresh. it be the law. 
listen dear of all to me say baloo. there be neither word nor will here to hold thee back. look up. who may question the master of the jungle. i saw thee play among the white pebble yonder when thou wast a little frog. and bagheera that buy thee for the price of a young bull newly kill saw thee also. of that look over we two only remain. for raksha thy lair mother be dead with thy lair father. the old wolf pack be long since dead. thou knowest whither shere khan go and akela die among the dhole where but for thy wisdom and strength the second seeonee pack would also have die. there remain nothing but old bone. it be no long the man cub that ask leave of his pack but the master of the jungle that change his trail. who shall question man in his way. 
but bagheera and the bull that buy me say mowgli. i would not. 
his word be cut short by a roar and a crash in the thicket below and bagheera light strong and terrible a always stand before him. 
therefore he say stretch out a drip right paw i do not come. it be a long hunt but he lie dead in the bush now a bull in his second year the bull that free thee little brother. all debt be pay now. for the rest my word be baloo s word. he lick mowgli s foot. remember bagheera love thee he cry and bound away. at the foot of the hill he cry again long and loud good hunt on a new trail master of the jungle. remember bagheera love thee. 
thou hast hear say baloo. there be no more. go now. but first come to me. o wise little frog come to me. 
it be hard to cast the skin say kaa a mowgli sob and sob with his head on the blind bear s side and his arm round his neck while baloo try feebly to lick his foot. 
the star be thin say gray brother snuff at the dawn wind. where shall we lair to day. for from now we follow new trail. 
*****. 
and this be the last of the mowgli story. 
the outsong. 
[this be the song that mowgli hear behind him in the jungle till he come to messua s door again. ]. 
baloo. 
for the sake of him who show one wise frog the jungle road keep the law the man pack make for thy blind old baloo s sake. clean or taint hot or stale hold it a it be the trail through the day and through the night quest neither leave nor right. for the sake of him who love thee beyond all else that move when thy pack would make thee pain say. tabaqui sing again. when thy pack would work thee ill say. shere khan be yet to kill. when the knife be draw to slay keep the law and go thy way. root and honey palm and spathe guard a cub from harm and scathe. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
kaa. 
anger be the egg of fear only lidless eye be clear. cobra poison none may leech. even so with cobra speech. open talk shall call to thee strength whose mate be courtesy. send no lunge beyond thy length. lend no rotten bough thy strength. gauge thy gape with buck or goat l thine eye should choke thy throat after gorge wouldst thou sleep. look thy den be hide and deep l a wrong by thee forget draw thy killer to the spot. east and west and north and south wash thy hide and close thy mouth. pit and rift and blue pool brim middle jungle follow him. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
bagheera. 
in the cage my life begin. well i know the worth of man. by the break lock that free man cub ware the man cub s breed. scent dew or starlight pale choose no tangle tree cat trail. pack or council hunt or den cry no truce with jackal men. fee them silence when they say. come with u an easy way. fee them silence when they seek help of thine to hurt the weak. make no banaar s boast of skill. hold thy peace above the kill. let nor call nor song nor sign turn thee from thy hunt line. morning mist or twilight clear serve him warden of the deer. wood and water wind and tree jungle favour go with thee. 
the three. 
on the trail that thou must tread to the threshold of our dread where the flower blossom red. through the night when thou shalt lie prisoned from our mother sky hear u thy love go by. in the dawn when thou shalt wake to the toil thou canst not break heartsick for the jungle s sake. wood and water wind and tree wisdom strength and courtesy jungle favour go with thee. 
