the writing in prose and verse of rudyard kipling. 
by rudyard kipling. 
volume xi. 

content. 
follow by first line. 
barrack room ballad. 

to wolcott balestier beyond the path of the outmost sun through utter darkness hurl. 
barrack room ballad. 
to t. a. i have make for you a song. 
danny deever what be the bugle blowin for. say file on parade. 
tommy i go into a public ouse to get a pint o beer. 
fuzzy wuzzy we ve fight with many men acrost the sea. 
soldier soldier soldier soldier come from the war. 
screw gun smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool. 
cell i ve a head like a concertina. i ve a tongue like a button stick. 
gunga din you may talk o gin and beer. 
oonts wot make the soldier s eart to penk wot make im to perspire. 
loot if you ve ever steal a pheasant egg be ind the keeper s back. 
snarleyow this appened in a battle to a batt ry of the corp. 
the widow at windsor ave you eard o the widow at windsor. 
belt there be a row in silver street that s near to dublin quay. 
the young british soldier when the arf make recruity go out to the east. 
mandalay by the old moulmein pagoda lookin eastward to the sea. 
troopin troopin troopin troopin to the sea. 
the widow s party where have you be this while away. 
ford o kabul river kabul town s by kabul river. 
gentleman ranker to the legion of the lose one to the cohort of the damn. 
route marchin we re marchin on relief over injia s sunny plain. 
shillin a day my name be o kelly i ve hear the revelly. 
other verse. 
the ballad of east and west oh east be east and west be west and never the twain shall meet. 
the last suttee udai chand lay sick to death. 
the ballad of the king s mercy abdhur rahman the durani chief of him be the story tell. 
the ballad of the king s jest when spring time flush the desert grass. 
with scindia to delhi the wreath of banquet overnight lay wither on the neck. 
the ballad of boh da thone this be the ballad of boh da thone. 
the lament of the border cattle thief o woe be me for the merry life. 
the rhyme of the three captain. at the close of a winter day. 
the ballad of the clampherdown it be our war ship clampherdown_. 
the ballad of the bolivar seven men from all the world back to dock again. 
the sacrifice of er heb er heb beyond the hill of ao safai. 
the explanation love and death once cease their strife. 
the gift of the sea the dead child lay in the shroud. 
evarra and his god read here. this be the story of evarra man. 
the conundrum of the workshop when the flush of a new bear sun fell first on eden s green and gold. 
the legend of evil this be the sorrowful story. 
the english flag wind of the world give answer. they be whimper to and fro. 
clear help for a patriot distress a spotless spirit hurt. 
an imperial rescript now this be the tale of the council the german kaiser decree. 
tomlinson now tomlinson give up the ghost in his house in berkeley square. 
l envoi to life s handicap my new cut ashlar take the light. 
l envoi there s a whisper down the field where the year ha shoot her yield. 
] ] ]___] ] ] ] ]. 
[in india the swastika be an ancient symbol of good fortune. kipling frequently use the swastika in this context. ]. 
the seven sea. 
dedication the city be full of pride. 
the seven sea. 
a song of the english fair be our lot o goodly be our heritage. 
the coastwise light our brow be bind with spindrift and the weed be on our knee. 
the song of the dead hear now the song of the dead in the north by the tear berg edge. 
the deep sea cable the wreck dissolve above u. their dust drop down from afar. 
the song of the son one from the end of the earth gift at an open door. 
the song of the city royal and dower royal i the queen. 
england s answer truly ye come of the blood. slow to bless than to ban. 
the first chantey mine be the woman to me darkling i find her. 
the last chantey thus say the lord in the vault above the cherub. 
the merchantman king solomon draw merchantman. 
m andrew s hymn lord thou hast make this world below the shadow of a dream. 
the miracle i send a message to my dear. 
the native bear we ve drink to the queen god bless her. 
the king farewell romance. the cave men say. 
the rhyme of the three sealer away by the land of the japanee. 
the derelict i be the staunch of our fleet. 
the answer a rise in tatter on the garden path. 
the song of the banjo you couldn t pack a broadwood half a mile. 
the liner she s a lady the liner she s a lady an she never look nor eeds. 
mulholland s contract the fear be on the cattle for the gale be on the sea. 
anchor song heh. walk her round. heave ah heave her short again. from many invention. 
the lose legion there s a legion that never be list. 
the sea wife there dwell a wife by the northern gate. 
hymn before action the earth be full of anger. 
to the true romance thy face be far from this our war from many invention. 
the flower buy my english posy. 
the last rhyme of true thomas the king ha call for priest and cup. 
in the neolithic age in the neolithic age savage warfare do i wage. 
the story of ung once on a glitter ice field age and age ago. 
the three decker full thirty foot she tower from waterline to rail. 
an american if the lead striker call it a strike. 
the mary gloster i ve pay for your sick fancy. i ve humour your cracked whim. 
sestina of the tramp royal speakin in general i ave try em all. 
barrack room ballad. 
back to the army again i m ere in a ticky ulster an a break billycock at. 
bird of prey march march. the mud be cakin good about our trousies. 
soldier an sailor too a i be spit into the ditch aboard o the crocodile_. 
sapper when the water be dry an the earth do appear. 
that day it get beyond all order an it get beyond all ope. 
the men that fight at minden the men that fight at minden they be rookie in their time. 
cholera camp we ve get the cholerer in camp it s bad than forty fight. 
the lady i ve take my fun where i ve find it. 
bill awkins a anybody see bill awkins. 
the mother lodge there be rundle station master. 
follow me ome there be no one like im orse or foot. 
the sergeant s weddin e be warn agin er. 
the jacket through the plague of egyp we be chasin arabi. 
the eathen the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. 
the shut eye sentry sez the junior orderly sergeant. 
mary pity woman. you call yourself a man. 
for to admire the injian ocean set an smile. 
l envoi when earth s last picture be paint and the tube be twist and dry. 
barrack room ballad and other verse. 

to wolcott balestier. 
beyond the path of the outmost sun through utter darkness hurl further than ever comet flare or vagrant star dust swirl live such a fight and sail and rule and love and make our world. 
they be purge of pride because they die they know the worth of their bay they sit at wine with the maiden nine and the god of the elder day it be their will to serve or be still a fitteth our father s praise. 
ti theirs to sweep through the ring deep where azrael s outpost be or buffet a path through the pit s red wrath when god go out to war or hang with the reckless seraph on the rein of a red man star. 
they take their mirth in the joy of the earth they dare not grieve for her pain they know of toil and the end of toil they know god s law be plain so they whistle the devil to make them sport who know that sin be vain. 
and ofttimes cometh our wise lord god master of every trade and tell them tale of his daily toil of eden newly make. and they rise to their foot a he pass by gentleman unafraid. 
to these who be cleanse of base desire sorrow and lust and shame god for they know the heart of men men for they stoop to fame bear on the breath that men call death my brother s spirit come. 
he scarce have need to doff his pride or slough the dross of earth e en a he tread that day to god so walk he from his birth in simpleness and gentleness and honour and clean mirth. 
so cup to lip in fellowship they give him welcome high and make him place at the banquet board the strong men range thereby who have do his work and hold his peace and have no fear to die. 
beyond the loom of the last lone star through open darkness hurl further than rebel comet dare or hive star swarm swirl sit he with those that praise our god for that they serve his world. 
barrack room ballad. 
to t. a. 
i have make for you a song and it may be right or wrong but only you can tell me if it s true. i have try for to explain both your pleasure and your pain and thomas here s my best respect to you. 
o there ll surely come a day when they ll give you all your pay and treat you a a christian ought to do. so until that day come round heaven keep you safe and sound and thomas here s my best respect to you. r. k. 
danny deever. 
what be the bugle blowin for. say file on parade. to turn you out to turn you out the colour sergeant say. what make you look so white so white. say file on parade. i m dreadin what i ve get to watch the colour sergeant say. for they re hangin danny deever you can hear the dead march play the regiment s in ollow square they re hangin him to day. they ve take of his button off an cut his stripe away an they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what make the rear rank breathe so ard. say file on parade. it s bitter cold it s bitter cold the colour sergeant say. what make that front rank man fall down. say file on parade. a touch o sun a touch o sun the colour sergeant say. they be hangin danny deever they be marchin of im round they ave alted danny deever by be coffin on the grind. an e ll swing in arf a minute for a sneakin shootin hound o they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
be cot be right and cot to mine say file on parade. e s sleepin out an far to night the colour sergeant say. i ve drink be beer a score o time say file on parade. e s drinkin bitter beer alone the colour sergeant say. they be hangin danny deever you must mark im to be place for e shoot a comrade sleepin you must look im in the face. nine undred of be county an the regiment s disgrace while they re hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
what s that so black agin the sun. say file on parade. it s danny fightin ard for life the colour sergeant say. what s that that whimper over ead. say file on parade. it s danny s soul that s passin now the colour sergeant say. for they re do with danny deever you can ear the quickstep play the regiment s in column an they re marchin u away. ho. the young recruit be shakin an they ll want their beer to day after hangin danny deever in the mornin. 
tommy. 
i go into a public ouse to get a pint o beer the publican e up an sez we serve no red coat here. the girl be ind the bar they laugh an giggle fit to die i out into the street again an to myself sez i. o it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy go away. but it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play the band begin to play my boy the band begin to play o it s thank you mister atkins when the band begin to play. 
i go into a theatre a sober a could be they give a drink civilian room but adn t none for me. they send me to the gallery or round the music alls but when it come to fightin lord. they ll shove me in the stall. for it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy wait outside. but it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide the troopship s on the tide my boy the troopship s on the tide o it s special train for atkins when the trooper s on the tide. 
yes makin mock o uniform that guard you while you sleep be cheap than them uniform an they re starvation cheap. an hustlin drunken soldier when they re goin large a bite be five time good business than paradin in full kit. then it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy ow s yer soul. but it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll the drum begin to roll my boy the drum begin to roll o it s thin red line of eroes when the drum begin to roll. 
we aren t no thin red eroes nor we aren t no blackguard too but single men in barricks most remarkable like you. an if sometimes our conduck isn t all your fancy paint why single men in barricks don t grow into plaster saint. while it s tommy this an tommy that an tommy fall be ind but it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind there s trouble in the wind my boy there s trouble in the wind o it s please to walk in front sir when there s trouble in the wind. 
you talk o good food for u an school an fire an all. we ll wait for extry ration if you treat u rational. don t mess about the cook room slop but prove it to our face the widow s uniform be not the soldier man s disgrace. for it s tommy this an tommy that an chuck him out the brute. but it s saviour of be country when the gun begin to shoot. an it s tommy this an tommy that an anything you please. an tommy ain t a bloomin fool you bet that tommy see. 
fuzzy wuzzy. 
soudan expeditionary force. 
we ve fight with many men acrost the sea an some of em be brave an some be not. the paythan an the zulu an burmese. but the fuzzy be the fine o the lot. we never get a ha porth s change of im. e squat in the scrub an ocked our or e cut our sentry up at sua_kim_ an e play the cat an banjo with our force. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. we give you your certificate an if you want it sign we ll come an ave a romp with you whenever you re incline. 
we take our chanst among the khyber ill the boer knock u silly at a mile the burman give u irriwaddy chill an a zulu impi dish u up in style. but all we ever get from such a they be pop to what the fuzzy make u swaller. we eld our bloomin own the paper say but man for man the fuzzy knock u oller. then ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an the missis and the kid. our order be to break you an of course we go an do. we slosh you with martini an it wasn t ardly fair. but for all the odds agin you fuzzy wuz you break the square. 
e asn t get no paper of be own e asn t get no medal nor reward so we must certify the skill e s show in usin of be long two anded sword. when e s oppin in an out among the bush with be coffin eaded shield an shovel spear an appy day with fuzzy on the rush will last an ealthy tommy for a year. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy an your friend which be no more if we adn t lose some messmate we would elp you to deplore. but give an take s the gospel an we ll call the bargain fair for if you ave lose more than u you crumple up the square. 
e rush at the smoke when we let drive an before we know e s ackin at our ead. e s all ot sand an ginger when alive an e s generally shammin when e s dead. e s a daisy e s a ducky e s a lamb. e s a injia rubber idiot on the spree e s the on y thing that doesn t give a damn for a regiment o british infantree. so ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy at your ome in the soudan. you re a pore benight eathen but a first class fightin man. an ere s to you fuzzy wuzzy with your ayrick ead of air you big black boundin beggar for you break a british square. 
soldier soldier. 
soldier soldier come from the war why don t you march with my true love. we re fresh from off the ship an e s maybe give the slip an you d best go look for a new love. new love. true love. best go look for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war what do you see o my true love. i seed im serve the queen in a suit o rifle green an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do ye see no more o my true love. i seed im runnin by when the shot begin to fly but you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do aught take arm to my true love. i couldn t see the fight for the smoke it lay so white an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll up an tend to my true love. e s lie on the dead with a bullet through be ead an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war i ll down an die with my true love. the pit we dig ll ide im an the twenty men beside im an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war do you bring no sign from my true love. i bring a lock of air that e allus use to wear an you d best go look for a new love. 
soldier soldier come from the war o then i know it s true i ve lose my true love. an i tell you truth again when you ve lose the feel o pain you d best take me for your true love. true love. new love. best take im for a new love the dead they cannot rise an you d good dry your eye an you d best take im for your true love. 
screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i walk in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule with seventy gunner be ind me an never a beggar forget it s only the pick of the army that handle the dear little pet tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we call round with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you can go where you please you can skid up the tree but you don t get away from the gun. 
they send u along where the road be but mostly we go where they ain t. we d climb up the side of a sign board an trust to the stick o the paint. we ve chivy the naga an looshai we ve give the afreedeeman fit for we fancy ourselves at two thousand we gun that be build in two bit tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
if a man doesn t work why we drill im an teach im ow to behave. if a beggar can t march why we kill im an rattle im into be grave. you ve get to stand up to our business an spring without snatchin or fuss. d you say that you sweat with the field gun. by god you must lather with u tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
the eagle be screamin around u the river s a moanin below we re clear o the pine an the oak scrub we re out on the rock an the snow an the wind be a thin a a whip lash what carry away to the plain the rattle an stamp o the lead mule the jinglety jink o the chain tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
there s a wheel on the horn o the mornin an a wheel on the edge o the pit an a drop into nothin beneath you a straight a a beggar can spit. with the sweat runnin out o your shirt sleeve an the sun off the snow in your face an arf o the men on the drag rope to hold the old gun in er place tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun. 
smokin my pipe on the mounting sniffin the mornin cool i climb in my old brown gaiter along o my old brown mule. the monkey can say what our road be the wild goat e know where we pass. stand easy you long eared old darlin s. out drag rope. with shrapnel. hold fast tss. tss. for you all love the screw gun the screw gun they all love you. so when we take tea with a few gun o course you will know what to do hoo. hoo. jest send in your chief an surrender it s bad if you fight or you run. you may hide in the cave they ll be only your graf but you can t get away from the gun. 
cell. 
i ve a head like a concertina. i ve a tongue like a button stick. i ve a mouth like an old potato and i m more than a little sick but i ve have my fun o the corp ral s guard. i ve make the cinder fly and i m here in the clink for a thunder drink and black the corporal s eye. with a second hand overcoat under my head and a beautiful view of the yard o it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. mad drink and resist the guard strewth but i sock it them hard. so it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. 
i start o canteen porter i finish o canteen beer but a dose o gin that a mate slip in it be that that bring me here. twas that and an extry double guard that rub my nose in the dirt. but i fell away with the corp ral s stock and the best of the corp ral s shirt. 
i leave my cap in a public house my boot in the public road and lord know where and i don t care my belt and my tunic go. they ll stop my pay they ll cut away the stripe i use to wear but i leave my mark on the corp ral s face and i think he ll keep it there. 
my wife she cry on the barrack gate my kid in the barrack yard it ain t that i mind the ord ly room it s that that cut so hard. i ll take my oath before them both that i will sure abstain but a soon a i m in with a mate and gin i know i ll do it again. with a second hand overcoat under my head and a beautiful view of the yard yes it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. mad drink and resist the guard strewth but i sock it them hard. so it s pack drill for me and a fortnight s c. b. for drink and resist the guard. 
gunga din. 
you may talk o gin and beer when you re quarter safe out ere an you re send to penny fight an aldershot it. but when it come to slaughter you will do your work on water an you ll lick the bloomin boot of im that s get it. now in injia s sunny clime where i use to spend my time a servin of er majesty the queen of all them blackfaced crew the fine man i know be our regimental bhisti gunga din. he be din. din. din. you limpin lump o brick dust gunga din. hi. slippery hitherao. water get it. panee lao. [bring water swiftly. ] you squidgy nose old idol gunga din. 
the uniform e wear be nothin much before an rather le than arf o that be ind for a piece o twisty rag an a goatskin water bag be all the field equipment e could find. when the sweatin troop train lay in a sidin through the day where the eat would make your bloomin eyebrow crawl we shout harry by. [mr. atkins s equivalent for o brother. ] till our throat be bricky dry then we wopped im cause e couldn t serve u all. it be din. din. din. you eathen where the mischief ave you be. you put some juldee in it [be quick. ] or i ll marrow you this minute [hit you. ] if you don t fill up my helmet gunga din. 
e would dot an carry one till the long day be do. an e didn t seem to know the use o fear. if we charge or break or cut you could bet your bloomin nut e d be waitin fifty pace right flank rear. with be mussick on be back [water skin. ] e would skip with our attack an watch u till the bugle make retire an for all be dirty ide e be white clear white inside when e go to tend the wound under fire. it be din. din. din. with the bullet kickin dust spot on the green. when the cartridge run out you could hear the front file shout hi. ammunition mule an gunga din. 
i shan t forgit the night when i drop be ind the fight with a bullet where my belt plate should a be. i be chokin mad with thirst an the man that spy me first be our good old grinnin gruntin gunga din. e lift up my ead an he plug me where i bleed an e guv me arf a pint o water green. it be crawlin and it stink but of all the drink i ve drink i m gratefullest to one from gunga din. it be din. din. din. ere s a beggar with a bullet through be spleen. e s chawin up the grind an e s kickin all around. for gawd s sake git the water gunga din. 
e carry me away to where a dooli lay an a bullet come an drill the beggar clean. e put me safe inside an just before e die i ope you like your drink sez gunga din. so i ll meet im late on at the place where e be go where it s always double drill and no canteen. e ll be squattin on the coal givin drink to poor damn soul an i ll get a swig in hell from gunga din. yes din. din. din. you lazarushian leather gunga din. though i ve belt you and flay you by the livin gawd that make you you re a good man than i be gunga din. 
oonts. 
northern india transport train. 
wot make the soldier s eart to penk wot make im to perspire. it isn t standin up to charge nor lyin down to fire. but it s everlastin waitin on a everlastin road for the commissariat camel an be commissariat load. o the oont* o the oont o the commissariat oont. with be silly neck a bobbin like a basket full o snake. we pack im like an idol an you ought to ear im grunt an when we get im load up be bless girth rope break. 
* camel. oo be pronounce like u in bull but by mr. atkins to rhyme with front. 
wot make the rear guard swear so ard when night be drorin in an every native follower be shiverin for be skin. it ain t the chanst o be rush by paythans from the ill it s the commissariat camel puttin on be bloomin frill. o the oont o the oont o the hairy scary oont. a trippin over tent rope when we ve get the night alarm. we sock im with a stretcher pole an eads im off in front an when we ve save be bloomin life e chaw our bloomin arm. 
the orse e know above a bite the bullock s but a fool the elephant s a gentleman the battery mule s a mule. but the commissariat cam u el when all be say an do e s a devil an a ostrich an a orphan child in one. o the oont o the oont o the gawd forsake oont. the lumpy umpy ummin bird a singin where e lie e s block the whole division from the rear guard to the front an when we get him up again the beggar go an dy. 
e ll gall an chafe an lame an fight e smell most awful vile. e ll lose isself for ever if you let im stray a mile. e s game to graze the ole day long an owl the ole night through an when e come to greasy grind e split isself in two. o the oont o the oont o the floppin droppin oont. when be long leg give from under an be meltin eye be dim the tribe be up be ind u and the tribe be out in front it ain t no jam for tommy but it s kite an crow for im. 
so when the cruel march be do an when the road be blind an when we see the camp in front an ear the shot be ind ho. then we strip be saddle off and all be woe be past. e think on u that use im so and get revenge at last. o the oont o the oont o the floatin bloatin oont. the late lament camel in the water cut e lie. we keep a mile be ind im an we keep a mile in front but e get into the drinkin cask and then o course we dy. 
loot. 
if you ve ever steal a pheasant egg be ind the keeper s back if you ve ever snigged the washin from the line if you ve ever cram a gander in your bloomin aversack you will understand this little song o mine. but the service rule be ard an from such we be debar for the same with english moral doe not suit. cornet. toot. toot. w y they call a man a robber if e stuff be marchin clobber with the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. lulu. loo. loo. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. bloomin loot. that s the thing to make the boy git up an shoot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again clap em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. ff. whoopee. tear im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
if you ve knock a nigger edgeways when e s thrustin for your life you must leave im very careful where e fell. an may thank your star an gaiter if you didn t feel be knife that you ain t tell off to bury im a well. then the sweatin tommies wonder a they spade the beggar under why lootin should be enter a a crime. so if my song you ll ear i will learn you plain an clear ow to pay yourself for fightin overtime. chorus. with the loot. 
now remember when you re acking round a gild burma god that be eye be very often precious stone. an if you treat a nigger to a dose o cleanin rod e s like to show you everything e own. when e win t prodooce no more pour some water on the floor where you ear it answer ollow to the boot. cornet. toot. toot. when the grind begin to sink shove your baynick down the chink an you re sure to touch the. chorus. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. ow the loot. 
when from ouse to ouse you re unting you must always work in pair it alves the gain but safe you will find for a single man get bottle on them twisty wisty stair an a woman come and clobs im from be ind. when you ve turn em inside out an it seem beyond a doubt a if there weren t enough to dust a flute. cornet. toot. toot. before you sling your ook at the ousetops take a look for it s underneath the tile they ide the loot. chorus. ow the loot. 
you can mostly square a sergint an a quartermaster too if you only take the proper way to go. i could never keep my pickin s but i ve learn you all i know an don t you never say i tell you so. an now i ll bid good bye for i m gettin rather dry an i see another tunin up to toot. cornet. toot. toot. so ere s good luck to those that wear the widow s clo e an the devil send em all they want o loot. chorus. yes the loot bloomin loot. in the tunic an the mess tin an the boot. it s the same with dog an men if you d make em come again. fff. whoop em forward with a loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. heeya. sick im puppy. loo. loo. lulu. loot. loot. loot. 
snarleyow. 
this appened in a battle to a batt ry of the corp which be first among the woman an amazin first in war. an what the bloomin battle be i don t remember now but two s off lead e answer to the name o snarleyow. down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
they be movin into action they be need very sore to learn a little schoolin to a native army corp they ad nip against an uphill they be tuckin down the brow when a tricky trundlin roundshot give the knock to snarleyow. 
they cut im loose an leave im e be almost tear in two but he try to follow after a a well train orse should do. e go an foul the limber an the driver s brother squeal. pull up pull up for snarleyow be head s between be eel. 
the driver umped be shoulder for the wheel be goin round an there ain t no stop conductor. when a batt ry s changin grind. sez e. i break the beggar in an very sad i feel but i couldn t pull up not for you your ead between your eel. 
e adn t ardly speak the word before a droppin shell a little right the batt ry an between the section fell. an when the smoke ad clear away before the limber wheel there lay the driver s brother with be ead between be eel. 
then sez the driver s brother an be word be very plain for gawd s own sake get over me an put me out o pain. they saw be wound be mortial an they judge that it be best so they take an drive the limber straight across be back an chest. 
the driver e give nothin cept a little coughin grunt but e swing be or andsome when it come to action front. an if one wheel be juicy you may lay your monday head twas juicy for the nigger when the case begin to spread. 
the moril of this story it be plainly to be see. you avn t get no family when servin of the queen you avn t get no brother father sister wife or son if you want to win your battle take an work your bloomin gun. down in the infantry nobody care. down in the cavalry colonel e swear. but down in the lead with the wheel at the flog turn the bold bombardier to a little whip dog. 
the widow at windsor. 
ave you eard o the widow at windsor with a hairy gold crown on er ead. she a ship on the foam she a million at ome an she pay u poor beggar in red. ow poor beggar in red. there s er nick on the cavalry or there s er mark on the medical store an er trooper you ll find with a fair wind be ind that take u to various war. poor beggar. barbarious war. then ere s to the widow at windsor an ere s to the store an the gun the men an the or what make up the force o missis victorier s son. poor beggar. victorier s son. 
walk wide o the widow at windsor for alf o creation she own. we ave buy er the same with the sword an the flame an we ve salt it down with our bone. poor beggar. it s blue with our bone. hand off o the son o the widow hand off o the good in er shop for the king must come down an the emperor frown when the widow at windsor say stop. poor beggar. we re send to say stop. then ere s to the lodge o the widow from the pole to the tropic it run to the lodge that we tile with the rank an the file an open in form with the gun. poor beggar. it s always they gun. 
we ave eard o the widow at windsor it s safe to let er alone. for er sentry we stand by the sea an the land wherever the bugle be blow. poor beggar. an don t we get blow. take old o the wing o the mornin an flop round the earth till you re dead. but you win t get away from the tune that they play to the bloomin old rag over ead. poor beggar. it s ot over ead. then ere s to the son o the widow wherever owever they roam. ere s all they desire an if they require a speedy return to their ome. poor beggar. they ll never see ome. 
belt. 
there be a row in silver street that s near to dublin quay between an irish regiment an english cavalree. it start at revelly an it last on till dark. the first man drop at harrison s the last forninst the park. for it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
there be a row in silver street the regiment be out they call u delhi rebel an we answer three about. that draw them like a hornet s nest we meet them good an large the english at the double an the irish at the charge. then it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street an i be in it too. we pass the time o day an then the belt go whirraru. i misremember what occur but subsequint the storm a freeman s journal supplemint be all my uniform. o it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street they send the polis there the english be too drink to know the irish didn t care. but when they grow impertinint we simultaneous rise till half o them be liffey mud an half be tatthered clo e. for it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it might ha rag till now but some one draw his side arm clear an nobody know how. twas hogan take the point an drop. we saw the red blood run. an so we all be murderer that start out in fun. while it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street but that put down the shine wid each man whisperin to his next. twas never work o mine. we go away like beat dog an down the street we bore him the poor dumb corpse that couldn t tell the bhoys be sorry for him. when it be. belt. 
there be a row in silver street it isn t over yet for half of u be under guard wid punishment to get. ti all a merricle to me a in the clink i lie. there be a row in silver street begod i wonder why. but it be. belt belt belt an that s one for you. an it be belt belt belt an that s do for you. o buckle an tongue be the song that we sing from harrison s down to the park. 
the young british soldier. 
when the arf make recruity go out to the east e act like a babe an e drink like a beast an e wonder because e be frequent decease ere e s fit for to serve a a soldier. serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier serve serve serve a a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
now all you recruities what s draft to day you shut up your rag box an ark to my lay an i ll sing you a soldier a far a i may. a soldier what s fit for a soldier. fit fit fit for a soldier. 
first mind you steer clear o the grog seller hut for they sell you fix bay net that rot out your gut ay drink that ud eat the live steel from your butt an it s bad for the young british soldier. bad bad bad for the soldier. 
when the cholera come a it will past a doubt keep out of the wet and don t go on the shout for the sickness get in a the liquor dy out an it crumple the young british soldier. crum crum crumple the soldier. 
but the bad o your foe be the sun over ead. you must wear your elmet for all that be say. if e find you uncover e ll knock you down dead an you ll die like a fool of a soldier. fool fool fool of a soldier. 
if you re cast for fatigue by a sergeant unkind don t grouse like a woman nor crack on nor blind. be handy and civil and then you will find that it s beer for the young british soldier. beer beer beer for the soldier. 
now if you must marry take care she be old a troop sergeant s widow s the nice i m tell for beauty win t help if your ration be cold nor love ain t enough for a soldier. nough nough nough for a soldier. 
if the wife should go wrong with a comrade be loath to shoot when you catch em you ll swing on my oath. make im take er and keep er. that s hell for them both an you re shut o the curse of a soldier. curse curse curse of a soldier. 
when first under fire an you re wishful to duck don t look nor take eed at the man that be strike be thankful you re livin and trust to your luck and march to your front like a soldier. front front front like a soldier. 
when arf of your bullet fly wide in the ditch don t call your martini a cross eye old bitch. she s human a you be you treat her a sich an she ll fight for the young british soldier. fight fight fight for the soldier. 
when shakin their bustle like lady so fine the gun o the enemy wheel into line shoot low at the limber an don t mind the shine for noise never startle the soldier. start start startle the soldier. 
if your officer s dead and the sergeant look white remember it s ruin to run from a fight. so take open order lie down and sit tight and wait for support like a soldier. wait wait wait like a soldier. 
when you re wound and leave on afghanistan s plain and the woman come out to cut up what remain jest roll to your rifle and blow out your brain an go to your gawd like a soldier. go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier go go go like a soldier so oldier of the queen. 
mandalay. 
by the old moulmein pagoda lookin eastward to the sea there s a burma girl a settin and i know she think o me. for the wind be in the palm tree and the temple bell they say. come you back you british soldier. come you back to mandalay. come you back to mandalay where the old flotilla lay. can t you ear their paddle chunkin from rangoon to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
er petticoat be yaller an er little cap be green an er name be supi yaw lat jes the same a theebaw s queen an i seed her first a smokin of a whackin white cheroot an a wastin christian kiss on an eathen idol s foot. bloomin idol make o mud wot they call the great gawd budd plucky lot she care for idol when i kiss er where she stud. on the road to mandalay. 
when the mist be on the rice field an the sun be droppin slow she d git er little banjo an she d sing _kulla lo lo. with er arm upon my shoulder an er cheek agin my cheek we useter watch the steamer an the hathis pilin teak. elephints a pilin teak in the sludgy squdgy creek where the silence ung that eavy you be arf afraid to speak. on the road to mandalay. 
but that s all shove be ind me long ago an fur away an there ain t no bus runnin from the bank to mandalay. an i m learnin ere in london what the ten year soldier tell. if you ve eard the east a callin you win t never eed naught else. no. you win t eed nothin else but them spicy garlic smell an the sunshine an the palm tree an the tinkly temple bell. on the road to mandalay. 
i be sick o wastin leather on these gritty pavin stone an the blast henglish drizzle wake the fever in my bone. tho i walk with fifty ousemaids out chelsea to the strand an they talk a lot o lovin but wot do they understand. beefy face an grubby and law. wot do they understand. i ve a neat sweet maiden in a clean green land. on the road to mandalay. 
ship me somewhere east of suez where the best be like the bad where there aren t no ten commandment an a man can raise a thirst. for the temple bell be callin an it s there that i would be by the old moulmein pagoda look lazy at the sea. on the road to mandalay where the old flotilla lay with our sick beneath the awning when we go to mandalay. on the road to mandalay where the flyin fish play an the dawn come up like thunder out china crost the bay. 
troopin. 
our army in the east. 
troopin troopin troopin to the sea. ere s september come again the six year men be free. o leave the dead be ind u for they cannot come away to where the ship s a coalin up that take u ome to day. we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
the malabar_ s in arbour with the jumner at er tail an the time expire s waitin of be order for to sail. ho. the weary waitin when on khyber ill we lay but the time expire s waitin of be order ome to day. 
they ll turn u out at portsmouth wharf in cold an wet an rain all wearin injian cotton kit but we will not complain. they ll kill u of pneumonia for that s their little way but damn the chill and fever men we re goin ome to day. 
troopin troopin winter s round again. see the new draf s pourin in for the old campaign. ho you poor recruities but you ve get to earn your pay what s the last from lunnon lad. we re goin there to day. 
troopin troopin give another cheer ere s to english woman an a quart of english beer. the colonel an the regiment an all who ve get to stay gawd s mercy strike em gentle whoop. we re goin ome to day. we re goin ome we re goin ome our ship be at the shore an you must pack your aversack for we win t come back no more. ho don t you grieve for me my lovely mary ann for i ll marry you yit on a fourp ny bite a a time expire man. 
the widow s party. 
where have you be this while away johnnie johnnie. long with the rest on a picnic lay johnnie my johnnie aha. they call u out of the barrack yard to gawd know where from gosport hard and you can t refuse when you get the card and the widow give the party. bugle. ta rara ra ra rara. 
what do you get to eat and drink johnnie johnnie. stand water a thick a ink johnnie my johnnie aha. a bite o beef that be three year store a bite o mutton a tough a a board and a fowl we kill with a sergeant s sword when the widow give the party. 
what do you do for knife and fork johnnie johnnie. we carry em with u wherever we walk johnnie my johnnie aha. and some be slice and some be halve and some be crimp and some be carve and some be gutted and some be starve when the widow give the party. 
what ha you do with half your mess johnnie johnnie. they couldn t do more and they wouldn t do le johnnie my johnnie aha. they eat their whack and they drink their fill and i think the ration ha make them ill for half my comp ny s lie still where the widow give the party. 
how do you get away away johnnie johnnie. on the broad o my back at the end o the day johnnie my johnnie aha. i come away like a bleedin toff for i get four nigger to carry me off a i lay in the bight of a canvas trough when the widow give the party. 
what be the end of all the show johnnie johnnie. ask my colonel for i don t know johnnie my johnnie aha. we break a king and we build a road a court house stand where the reg ment go. and the river s clean where the raw blood flow when the widow give the party. bugle. ta rara ra ra rara. 
ford o kabul river. 
kabul town s by kabul river blow the bugle draw the sword there i lef my mate for ever wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river up and brimmin an there s arf a squadron swimmin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town s a blast place blow the bugle draw the sword strewth i sha n t forget be face wet an drippin by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. keep the cross stake beside you an they will surely guide you cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be sun and dust blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha sooner drownded fust stead of im beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. you can ear the or threshin you can ear the men a splashin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town be ours to take blow the bugle draw the sword i d ha leave it for be sake im that leave me by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. it s none so bloomin dry there. ain t you never comin nigh there cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
kabul town ll go to hell blow the bugle draw the sword fore i see him live an well im the best beside the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. gawd elp em if they blunder for their boot ll pull em under by the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
turn your orse from kabul town blow the bugle draw the sword im an arf my troop be down down an drownded by the ford. ford ford ford o kabul river ford o kabul river in the dark. there s the river low an fallin but it ain t no use o callin cross the ford o kabul river in the dark. 
gentleman ranker. 
to the legion of the lose one to the cohort of the damn to my brother in their sorrow overseas sing a gentleman of england cleanly breed machinely cram and a trooper of the empress if you please. yea a trooper of the force who ha run his own six horse and faith he go the pace and go it blind and the world be more than kin while he hold the ready tin but to day the sergeant s something le than kind. we re poor little lamb who ve lose our way baa. baa. baa. we re little black sheep who ve go astray baa aa aa. gentleman ranker out on the spree damn from here to eternity god ha mercy on such a we baa. yah. bah. 
oh it s sweet to sweat through stable sweet to empty kitchen slop and it s sweet to hear the tale the trooper tell to dance with blowzy housemaid at the regimental hop and thrash the cad who say you waltz too well. yes it make you cock a hoop to be rider to your troop and brand with a blast worst spur when you envy o how keenly one poor tommy be cleanly who black your boot and sometimes call you sir. 
if the home we never write to and the oath we never keep and all we know most distant and most dear across the snore barrack room return to break our sleep can you blame u if we soak ourselves in beer. when the drunken comrade mutter and the great guard lantern gutter and the horror of our fall be write plain every secret self reveal on the ache white wash ceiling do you wonder that we drug ourselves from pain. 
we have do with hope and honour we be lose to love and truth we be drop down the ladder ring by ring and the measure of our torment be the measure of our youth. god help u for we know the bad too young. our shame be clean repentance for the crime that bring the sentence our pride it be to know no spur of pride and the curse of reuben hold u till an alien turf enfold u and we die and none can tell them where we die. we re poor little lamb who ve lose our way baa. baa. baa. we re little black sheep who ve go astray baa aa aa. gentleman ranker out on the spree damn from here to eternity god ha mercy on such a we baa. yah. bah. 
route marchin. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s sunny plain a little front o christmas time an just be ind the rain. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be _rowdy dowdy dow. _kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. *. 
* why don t you get on. 
oh there s them injian temple to admire when you see there s the peacock round the corner an the monkey up the tree an there s that rummy silver grass a wavin in the wind an the old grand trunk a trailin like a rifle sling be ind. while it s best foot first. 
at half past five s revelly an our tent they down must come like a lot of button mushroom when you pick em up at ome. but it s over in a minute an at six the column start while the woman and the kiddy sit an shiver in the cart. an it s best foot first. 
oh then it s open order an we light our pipe an sing an we talk about our ration an a lot of other thing an we think o friend in england an we wonder what they re at an ow they would admire for to hear u sling the bat. * an it s best foot first. 
* language. thomas s first and firm conviction be that he be a profound orientalist and a fluent speaker of hindustani. a a matter of fact he depend largely on the sign language. 
it s none so bad o sunday when you re lyin at your ease to watch the kite a wheelin round them feather eaded tree for although there ain t no woman yet there ain t no barrick yard so the orficers go shootin an the men they play at card. till it s best foot first. 
so ark an eed you rookie which be always grumblin sore there s worse thing than marchin from umballa to cawnpore. an if your eel be blister an they feel to urt like ell you drop some tallow in your sock an that will make em well. for it s best foot first. 
we re marchin on relief over injia s coral strand eight undred fightin englishman the colonel and the band. ho. get away you bullock man you ve eard the bugle blow there s a regiment a comin down the grand trunk road. with it best foot first and the road a slide past an every bloomin campin grind exactly like the last. while the big drum say with be _rowdy dowdy dow. _kiko kissywarsti don t you hamsher argy jow. 
shillin a day. 
my name be o kelly i ve hear the revelly from birr to bareilly from leeds to lahore hong kong and peshawur lucknow and etawah and fifty five more all endin in pore. black death and his quickness the depth and the thickness of sorrow and sickness i ve know on my way but i m old and i m nervi i m cast from the service and all i deserve be a shillin a day. chorus. shillin a day bloomin good pay lucky to touch it a shillin a day. 
oh it drive me half crazy to think of the day i go slap for the ghazi my sword at my side when we ride hell for leather both squadron together that didn t care whether we live or we die. but it s no use despairin my wife must go charin an me commissairin the pay bill to good so if me you be old in the wet and the cold by the grand metropold win t you give me a letter. full chorus. give im a letter can t do no good late troop sergeant major an run with a letter. think what e s be think what e s see think of his pension an. 
gawd save the queen. 
other verse. 
the ballad of east and west. 
oh east be east and west be west and never the twain shall meet till earth and sky stand presently at god s great judgment seat. but there be neither east nor west border nor breed nor birth when two strong men stand face to face tho they come from the end of the earth. 
kamal be out with twenty men to raise the border side and he ha lift the colonel s mare that be the colonel s pride. he ha lift her out of the stable door between the dawn and the day and turn the calkin upon her foot and ride her far away. then up and speak the colonel s son that lead a troop of the guide. be there never a man of all my men can say where kamal hide. then up and speak mahommed khan the son of the ressaldar. if ye know the track of the morning mist ye know where his picket be. at dusk he harry the abazai at dawn he be into bonair but he must go by fort bukloh to his own place to fare so if ye gallop to fort bukloh a fast a a bird can fly by the favour of god ye may cut him off ere he win to the tongue of jagai. but if he be past the tongue of jagai right swiftly turn ye then for the length and the breadth of that grisly plain be sow with kamal s men. there be rock to the leave and rock to the right and low lean thorn between and ye may hear a breech bolt snick where never a man be see. the colonel s son ha take a horse and a raw rough dun be he with the mouth of a bell and the heart of hell and the head of the gallows tree. the colonel s son to the fort ha win they bid him stay to eat who ride at the tail of a border thief he sit not long at his meat. he s up and away from fort bukloh a fast a he can fly till he be aware of his father s mare in the gut of the tongue of jagai till he be aware of his father s mare with kamal upon her back and when he could spy the white of her eye he make the pistol crack. he ha fire once he ha fire twice but the whistle ball go wide. ye shoot like a soldier kamal say. show now if ye can ride. it s up and over the tongue of jagai a blow dustdevils go the dun he flee like a stag of ten but the mare like a barren doe. the dun he lean against the bite and slug his head above but the red mare play with the snaffle bar a a maiden play with a glove. there be rock to the leave and rock to the right and low lean thorn between and thrice he hear a breech bolt snick tho never a man be see. they have ride the low moon out of the sky their hoof drum up the dawn the dun he go like a wound bull but the mare like a new rouse fawn. the dun he fell at a water course in a woful heap fell he and kamal ha turn the red mare back and pull the rider free. he ha knock the pistol out of his hand small room be there to strive twas only by favour of mine quoth he ye ride so long alive. there be not a rock for twenty mile there be not a clump of tree but cover a man of my own men with his rifle cock on his knee. if i have raise my bridle hand a i have hold it low the little jackal that flee so fast be feast all in a row. if i have bow my head on my breast a i have hold it high the kite that whistle above u now be gorge till she could not fly. lightly answer the colonel s son. do good to bird and beast but count who come for the break meat before thou makest a feast. if there should follow a thousand sword to carry my bone away belike the price of a jackal s meal be more than a thief could pay. they will fee their horse on the stand crop their men on the garner grain the thatch of the byre will serve their fire when all the cattle be slay. but if thou thinkest the price be fair thy brother wait to sup the hound be kin to the jackal spawn howl dog and call them up. and if thou thinkest the price be high in steer and gear and stack give me my father s mare again and i ll fight my own way back. kamal ha grip him by the hand and set him upon his foot. no talk shall be of dog say he when wolf and gray wolf meet. may i eat dirt if thou hast hurt of me in deed or breath. what dam of lance bring thee forth to jest at the dawn with death. lightly answer the colonel s son. i hold by the blood of my clan. take up the mare for my father s gift by god she ha carry a man. the red mare run to the colonel s son and nuzzle against his breast. we be two strong men say kamal then but she loveth the young best. so she shall go with a lifter s dower my turquoise stud rein my broider saddle and saddle cloth and silver stirrup twain. the colonel s son a pistol draw and hold it muzzle end ye have take the one from a foe say he. will ye take the mate from a friend. a gift for a gift say kamal straight. a limb for the risk of a limb. thy father ha send his son to me i ll send my son to him. with that he whistle his only son that drop from a mountain crest he tread the ling like a buck in spring and he look like a lance in rest. now here be thy master kamal say who lead a troop of the guide and thou must ride at his leave side a shield on shoulder ride. till death or i cut loose the tie at camp and board and bed thy life be his thy fate it be to guard him with thy head. so thou must eat the white queen s meat and all her foe be thine and thou must harry thy father s hold for the peace of the border line and thou must make a trooper tough and hack thy way to power belike they will raise thee to ressaldar when i be hang in peshawur. 
they have look each other between the eye and there they find no fault they have take the oath of the brother in blood on leaven bread and salt. they have take the oath of the brother in blood on fire and fresh cut sod on the hilt and the haft of the khyber knife and the wondrous name of god. the colonel s son he ride the mare and kamal s boy the dun and two have come back to fort bukloh where there go forth but one. and when they draw to the quarter guard full twenty sword fly clear there be not a man but carry his feud with the blood of the mountaineer. ha do. ha do. say the colonel s son. put up the steel at your side. last night ye have strike at a border thief to night ti a man of the guide. 
oh east be east and west be west and never the twain shall meet till earth and sky stand presently at god s great judgment seat. but there be neither east nor west border nor breed nor birth when two strong men stand face to face tho they come from the end of the earth. 
the last suttee. 
not many year ago a king die in one of the rajpoot state. his wife disregard the order of the english against suttee would have break out of the palace have not the gate be bar. but one of them disguise a the king s favourite dance girl pass through the line of guard and reach the pyre. there her courage fail she pray her cousin a baron of the court to kill her. this he do not know who she be. 
udai chand lay sick to death in his hold by gungra hill. all night we hear the death gong ring for the soul of the die rajpoot king all night beat up from the woman s wing a cry that we could not still. 
all night the baron come and go the lord of the out guard. all night the cressets glimmer pale on ulwar sabre and tonk jezail mewar headstall and marwar mail that clink in the palace yard. 
in the golden room on the palace roof all night he fight for air. and there be sob behind the screen rustle and whisper of woman unseen and the hungry eye of the boondi queen on the death she might not share. 
he pass at dawn the death fire leap from ridge to river head from the malwa plain to the abu scar. and wail upon wail go up to the star behind the grim zenana bar when they know that the king be dead. 
the dumb priest kneel to tie his mouth and robe him for the pyre. the boondi queen beneath u cry. see now that we die a our mother die in the bridal bed by our master s side. out woman. to the fire. 
we drive the great gate home apace. white hand be on the sill. but ere the rush of the unseen foot have reach the turn to the open street the bar shoot down the guard drum beat we hold the dovecot still. 
a face look down in the gather day and laugh speak from the wall. oh]/e they mourn here. let me by azizun the lucknow nautch girl i. when the house be rotten the rat must fly and i seek another thrall. 
for i rule the king a ne er do queen to night the queen rule me. guard them safely but let me go or ever they pay the debt they owe in scourge and torture. she leap below and the grim guard watch her flee. 
they know that the king have spend his soul on a north breed dance girl. that he pray to a flat nose lucknow god and kiss the grind where her foot have tread and doom to death at her drunken nod and swear by her light curl. 
we bore the king to his father place where the tomb of the sun bear stand. where the gray ape swing and the peacock preen on fret pillar and jewel screen and the wild boar couch in the house of the queen on the drift of the desert sand. 
the herald read his title forth we set the log aglow. friend of the english free from fear baron of luni to jeysulmeer lord of the desert of bikaneer king of the jungle go. 
all night the red flame stab the sky with waver wind toss spear. and out of a shatter temple creep a woman who veil her head and weep and call on the king but the great king sleep and turn not for her tear. 
small think have he to mark the strife cold fear with hot desire when thrice she leap from the leap flame and thrice she beat her breast for shame and thrice like a wound dive she come and moan about the fire. 
one watch a bow shoot from the blaze the silent street between who have stand by the king in sport and fray to blade in ambush or boar at bay and he be a baron old and gray and kin to the boondi queen. 
he say. o shameless put aside the veil upon thy brow. who hold the king and all his land to the wanton will of a harlot s hand. will the white ash rise from the blister brand. stoop down and call him now. 
then she. by the faith of my tarnish soul all thing i do not well i have hop to clear ere the fire die and lay me down by my master s side to rule in heaven his only bride while the others howl in hell. 
but i have felt the fire s breath and hard it be to die. yet if i may pray a rajpoot lord to sully the steel of a thakur s sword with base bear blood of a trade abhor and the thakur answer ay. 
he draw and strike. the straight blade drink the life beneath the breast. i have look for the queen to face the flame but the harlot dy for the rajpoot dame sister of mine pas free from shame pas with thy king to rest. 
the black log crash above the white. the little flame and lean red a slaughter and blue a steel that whistle and flutter from head to heel leap up anew for they find their meal on the heart of the boondi queen. 
the ballad of the king s mercy. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief of him be the story tell. his mercy fill the khyber hill his grace be manifold. he ha take toll of the north and the south his glory reacheth far and they tell the tale of his charity from balkh to kandahar. 
before the old peshawur gate where kurd and kaffir meet the governor of kabul deal the justice of the street and that be strait a run noose and swift a plunge knife tho he who hold the long purse might hold the long life. 
there be a hound of hindustan have strike a euzufzai wherefore they spat upon his face and lead him out to die. it chance the king go forth that hour when throat be bar to knife. the kaffir grovel under hoof and clamour for his life. 
then say the king. have hope o friend. yea death disgrace be hard. much honour shall be thine. and call the captain of the guard yar khan a bastard of the blood so city babble saith and he be honour of the king the which be salt to death. and he be son of daoud shah the reiver of the plain and blood of old durani lord run fire in his vein. and twas to tame an afghan pride nor hell nor heaven could bind the king would make him butch to a yelp cur of hind. 
strike. say the king. king s blood art thou his death shall be his pride. then loud that the crowd might catch. fear not his arm be tie. yar khan draw clear the khyber knife and strike and sheathe again. o man thy will be do quoth he. a king this dog hath slay. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief to the north and the south be sell. the north and the south shall open their mouth to a ghilzai flag unroll when the big gun speak to the khyber peak and his dog heratis fly. ye have hear the song how long. how long. wolf of the abazai. 
that night before the watch be set when all the street be clear the governor of kabul speak. my king hast thou no fear. thou knowest thou hast hear his speech die at his master s face. and grimly say the afghan king. i rule the afghan race. my path be mine see thou to thine to night upon thy bed think who there be in kabul now that clamour for thy head. 
that night when all the gate be shut to city and to throne within a little garden house the king lay down alone. before the sink of the moon which be the night of night yar khan come softly to the king to make his honour white. the child of the town have mock beneath his horse s hoof the harlot of the town have hail him butch. from their roof. but a he grope against the wall two hand upon him fell the king behind his shoulder spake. dead man thou dost not well. ti ill to jest with king by day and seek a boon by night. and that thou bearest in thy hand be all too sharp to write. but three day hence if god be good and if thy strength remain thou shalt demand one boon of me and bless me in thy pain. for i be merciful to all and most of all to thee. my butch of the shamble rest no knife hast thou for me. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief hold hard by the south and the north. but the ghilzai know ere the melt snow when the swell bank break forth when the red coat crawl to the sungar wall and his usbeg lance fail. ye have hear the song how long. how long. wolf of the zuka kheyl. 
they stone him in the rubbish field when dawn be in the sky accord to the write word see that he do not die. 
they stone him till the stone be pile above him on the plain and those the labour limb displace they tumble back again. 
one watch beside the dreary mound that veil the batter thing and him the king with laughter call the herald of the king. 
it be upon the second night the night of ramazan the watcher lean earthward hear the message of yar khan. from shatter breast through shrivel lip break forth the rattle breath creature of god deliver me from agony of death. 
they seek the king among his girl and risk their life thereby. protector of the pitiful give order that he die. 
bid him endure until the day a lag answer come. the night be short and he can pray and learn to bless my name. 
before the dawn three time he speak and on the day once more. creature of god deliver me and bless the king therefor. 
they shoot him at the morning prayer to ease him of his pain and when he hear the matchlock clink he bless the king again. 
which thing the singer make a song for all the world to sing so that the out sea may know the mercy of the king. 
abdhur rahman the durani chief of him be the story tell he ha open his mouth to the north and the south they have stuff his mouth with gold. ye know the truth of his tender ruth and sweet his favour be. ye have hear the song how long. how long. from balkh to kandahar. 
the ballad of the king s jest. 
when spring time flush the desert grass our kafilas wind through the khyber pas. lean be the camel but fat the frail light be the purse but heavy the bale a the snowbound trade of the north come down to the market square of peshawur town. 
in a turquoise twilight crisp and chill a kafila camp at the foot of the hill. then blue smoke haze of the cook rise and tent peg answer to hammer nose. and the picket pony shag and wild strain at their rope a the fee be pile. and the bubble camel beside the load sprawl for a furlong adown the road. and the persian pussy cat bring for sale spat at the dog from the camel bale. and the tribesman bellow to hasten the food. and the camp fire twinkle by fort jumrood. and there flee on the wing of the gather dusk a savour of camel and carpet and musk a murmur of voice a reek of smoke to tell u the trade of the khyber wake. 
the lid of the flesh pot chatter high the knife be whet and then come i to mahbub ali the muleteer patch his bridle and count his gear cram with the gossip of half a year. but mahbub ali the kindly say good be speech when the belly be feed. so we plunge the hand to the mid wrist deep in a cinnamon stew of the fat tail sheep and he who never hath taste the food by allah. he knoweth not bad from good. 
we cleanse our beard of the mutton grease we lay on the mat and be fill with peace and the talk slide north and the talk slide south with the slide puff from the hookah mouth. four thing great than all thing be woman and horse and power and war. we spake of them all but the last the most for i seek a word of a russian post of a shifty promise an unsheathe sword and a gray coat guard on the helmund ford. then mahbub ali lower his eye in the fashion of one who be weave lie. quoth he. of the russian who can say. when the night be gather all be gray. but we look that the gloom of the night shall die in the morning flush of a blood red sky. friend of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. we know what heaven or hell may bring but no man knoweth the mind of the king. that unsought counsel be curse of god attesteth the story of wali dad. 
his sire be leaky of tongue and pen his dam be a cluck khuttuck hen. and the colt breed close to the vice of each for he carry the curse of an unstanched speech. therewith madness so that he seek the favour of king at the kabul court. and travel in hope of honour far to the line where the gray coat squadron be. there have i journey too but i saw naught say naught and do not die. he hark to rumour and snatch at a breath of `this one knoweth and `that one saith legend that run from mouth to mouth of a gray coat come and sack of the south. these have i also hear they pas with each new spring and the winter grass. 
hot foot southward forget of god back to the city run wali dad even to kabul in full durbar the king hold talk with his chief in war. into the press of the crowd he break and what he have hear of the come speak. 
then gholam hyder the red chief smile a a mother might on a babble child. but those who would laugh restrain their breath when the face of the king show dark a death. evil it be in full durbar to cry to a ruler of gather war. slowly he lead to a peach tree small that grow by a cleave of the city wall. and he say to the boy. `they shall praise thy zeal so long a the red spurt follow the steel. and the rus be upon u even now. great be thy prudence await them thou. watch from the tree. thou art young and strong surely thy vigil be not for long. the rus be upon u thy clamour run. surely an hour shall bring their van. wait and watch. when the host be near shout aloud that my men may hear. 
friend of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. a guard be set that he might not flee a score of bayonet ring the tree. the peach bloom fell in shower of snow when he shake at his death a he look below. by the power of god who alone be great till the seventh day he fight with his fate. then madness take him and men declare he mow in the branch a ape and bear and last a a sloth ere his body fail and he hang a a bat in the fork and wail and sleep the cord of his hand untie and he fell and be catch on the point and die. 
heart of my heart be it meet or wise to warn a king of his enemy. we know what heaven or hell may bring but no man knoweth the mind of the king. of the gray coat come who can say. when the night be gather all be gray. two thing great than all thing be the first be love and the second war. and since we know not how war may prove heart of my heart let u talk of love. 
with scindia to delhi. 
more than a hundred year ago in a great battle fight near delhi an indian prince ride fifty mile after the day be lose with a beggar girl who have love him and follow him in all his camp on his saddle bow. he lose the girl when almost within sight of safety. a maratta trooper tell the story. 
the wreath of banquet overnight lay wither on the neck our hand and scarf be saffron dye for signal of despair when we go forth to paniput to battle with the mlech_ ere we come back from paniput and leave a kingdom there. 
thrice thirty thousand men be we to force the jumna ford the hawk wing horse of damajee mail squadron of the bhao stark levy of the southern hill the deccan s sharp sword and he the harlot s traitor son the goatherd mulhar rao. 
thrice thirty thousand men be we before the mist have clear the low white mist of morning hear the war conch scream and bray. we call upon bhowani and we grip them by the beard we roll upon them like a flood and wash their rank away. 
the child of the hill of khost before our lance run we drive the black rohillas back a cattle to the pen. twas then we need mulhar rao to end what we begin a thousand men have save the charge. he flee the field with ten. 
there be no room to clear a sword no power to strike a blow for foot to foot ay breast to breast the battle hold u fast save where the naked hill men run and stab from below bring down the horse and rider and we trample them and pass. 
to leave the roar of musketry ring like a fall flood to right the sunshine ripple red from red lance and blade above the dark upsaras_* fly beneath u plash the blood and belly black against the dust the bhagwa jhanda sway. 
* the chooser of the slay. 
i saw it fall in smoke and fire the banner of the bhao. i hear a voice across the press of one who call in vain. ho. anand rao nimbalkhur ride. get aid of mulhar rao. go shame his squadron into fight the bhao the bhao be slay. 
thereat a when a sand bar break in clot spume and spray when rain of late autumn sweep the jumna water head before their charge from flank to flank our rive rank give way. but of the water of that flood the jumna ford run red. 
i hold by scindia my lord a close a man might hold. a soobah of the deccan ask no aid to guard his life. but holkar s horse be fly and our chief chief be cold and like a flame among u leap the long lean northern knife. 
i hold by scindia my lance from butt to tuft be dye the froth of battle boss the shield and rope the bridle chain what time beneath our horse foot a maiden rise and cry and cling to scindia and i turn a sword cut from the twain. 
he set a spell upon the maid in woodland long ago a hunter by the tapti bank she give him water there. he turn her heart to water and she follow to her woe. what need have he of lalun who have twenty maid a fair. 
now in that hour strength leave my lord. he wrench his mare aside. he bind the girl behind him and we slash and struggle free. across the reel wreck of strife we ride a shadow ride from paniput to delhi town but not alone be we. 
twas lutuf ullah populzai lay horse upon our track a swine feed reiver of the north that lust for the maid. i might have bar his path awhile but scindia call me back and i o woe for scindia. i listen and obey. 
league after league the formless scrub take shape and glide by league after league the white road swirl behind the white mare s foot league after league when league be do we hear the populzai where sure a time and swift a death the tireless footfall beat. 
noon s eye behold that shame of flight the shadow fell we flee where steadfast a the wheel kite he follow in our train. the black wolf war where we have war the jackal mock our dead and terror bear of twilight tide make mad the labour brain. 
i gasp. a kingdom wait my lord. her love be but her own. a day shall mar a day shall cure for her but what for thee. cut loose the girl. he follow fast. cut loose and ride alone. then scindia twixt his blister lip. my queen queen shall she be. 
of all who eat my bread last night twas she alone that come to seek her love between the spear and find her crown therein. one shame be mine to day what need the weight of double shame. if once we reach the delhi gate though all be lose i win. 
we ride the white mare fail her trot a stagger stumble grow the cook smoke of even rise and welter and hang low. and still we hear the populzai and still we strain anew and delhi town be very near but near be the foe. 
yea delhi town be very near when lalun whisper. slay. lord of my life the mare sink fast stab deep and let me die. but scindia would not and the maid tear free and fling away and turn a she fell we hear the clatter populzai. 
then scindia check the gasp mare that rock and groan for breath and wheel to charge and plunge the knife a hand s breadth in her side the hunter and the hunt know how that last pause be death the blood have chill about her heart she rear and fell and die. 
our god be kind. before he hear the maiden s piteous scream a log upon the delhi road beneath the mare he lay lose mistress and lose battle pass before him like a dream. the darkness close about his eye i bore my king away. 
the ballad of boh da thone. 
this be the ballad of boh da thone erst a pretender to theebaw s throne who harry the district of alalone. how he meet with his fate and the v. p. p. * at the hand of harendra mukerji senior gomashta g. b. t. 
* value payable parcel post. in which the government collect the money for the sender. 
boh da thone be a warrior bold. his sword and his snide be boss with gold. 
and the peacock banner his henchman bore be stiff with bullion but stiff with gore. 
he shoot at the strong and he slash at the weak from the salween scrub to the chindwin teak. 
he crucify noble he sacrifice mean he fill old lady with kerosene. 
while over the water the paper cry the patriot fight for his countryside. 
but little they care for the native press the wear white soldier in khaki dress. 
who tramp through the jungle and camp in the byre who die in the swamp and be tombed in the mire. 
who give up their life at the queen s command for the pride of their race and the peace of the land. 
now first of the foeman of boh da thone be captain o neil of the black tyrone. 
and his be a company seventy strong who hustle that dissolute chief along. 
there be lad from galway and louth and meath who go to their death with a joke in their teeth. 
and worship with fluency fervour and zeal the mud on the boot heel of crook o neil. 
but ever a blight on their labour lay and ever their quarry would vanish away. 
till the sun dry boy of the black tyrone take a brotherly interest in boh da thone. 
and sooth if pursuit in possession end the boh and his tracker be best of friend. 
the word of a scout a march by night a rush through the mist a scatter fight. 
a volley from cover a corpse in the clear the glimpse of a loin cloth and heavy jade earring. 
the flare of a village the tally of slay and. the boh be abroad on the raid again. 
they curse their luck a the irish will they give him credit for cunning and skill. 
they bury their dead they bolt their beef and start anew on the track of the thief. 
till in place of the kalends of greece men say when crook and his darling come back with the head. 
they have hunt the boh from the hill to the plain he double and break for the hill again. 
they have cripple his power for rapine and raid they have rout him out of his pet stockade. 
and at last they come when the day star tire to a camp desert a village fire. 
a black cross blister the morning gold and the body upon it be stark and cold. 
the wind of the dawn go merrily past the high grass bow her plume to the blast. 
and out of the grass on a sudden break a spirtle of fire a whorl of smoke. 
and captain o neil of the black tyrone be bless with a slug in the ulnar bone the gift of his enemy boh da thone. 
now a slug that be hammer from telegraph wire be a thorn in the flesh and a rankle fire. 

the shoot wind fester a shoot wound may in a steam barrack at mandalay. 
the leave arm throb and the captain swear i d like to be after the boh once more. 
the fever hold him the captain say i d give a hundred to look at his head. 
the hospital punkah creak and whir but babu harendra. gomashta. hear. 
he think of the cane brake green and dank that girdle his home by the dacca tank. 
he think of his wife and his high school son he think but abandon the think of a gun. 
his sleep be break by vision dread of a shin boh with a silver head. 
he keep his counsel and go his way and swindle the cartmen of half their pay. 

and the month go on a the bad must do and the boh return to the raid anew. 
but the captain have quit the long draw strife and in far simoorie have take a wife. 
and she be a damsel of delicate mould with hair like the sunshine and heart of gold. 
and little she know the arm that embrace have cleave a man from the brow to the waist. 
and little she know that the love lip have order a quiver life s eclipse. 
and the eye that light at her light breath have glare unawed in the gate of death. 
for these be matter a man would hide a a general rule from an innocent bride. 
and little the captain think of the past and of all men babu harendra last. 

but slow in the sludge of the kathun road the government bullock train tot it load. 
speckle and spotless and shin with ghee_ in the rearmost cart sit the babu jee. 
and ever a phantom before him flee of a scowl boh with a silver head. 
then the lead cart stick though the cooly slave and the cartmen flog and the escort rave. 
and out of the jungle with yell and squeal prance boh da thone and his gang at his heel. 
then belch blunderbuss answer back the snide s snarl and the carbine s crack. 
and the blithe revolver begin to sing to the blade that twang on the lock ring. 
and the brown flesh blue where the bay net kiss a the steel shoot back with a wrench and a twist. 
and the great white bullock with onyx eye watch the soul of the dead arise. 
and over the smoke of the fusillade the peacock banner stagger and sway. 
oh gay of scrimmage man may see be a well work rush on the g. b. t. 
the babu shake at the horrible sight and gird his ponderous loin for flight. 
but fate have ordain that the boh should start on a lone hand raid of the rearmost cart. 
and out of that cart with a bellow of woe the babu fell flat on the top of the boh. 
for year have harendra serve the state to the growth of his purse and the girth of his p]^et. 
there be twenty stone a the tally man know on the broad of the chest of this best of bohs. 
and twenty stone from a height discharge be bad for a boh with a spleen enlarge. 
oh short be the struggle severe be the shock he drop like a bullock he lay like a block. 
and the babu above him convulse with fear hear the labour life breath hiss out in his ear. 
and thus in a fashion undignified the princely pest of the chindwin die. 

turn now to simoorie where lap in his ease the captain be pet the bride on his knee. 
where the whit of the bullet the wound man s scream be mix a the mist of some devilish dream. 
forget forget the sweat of the shamble where the hill daisy bloom and the gray monkey gambol. 
from the sword belt set free and release from the steel the peace of the lord be with captain o neil. 

up the hill to simoorie most patient of drudge the bag on his shoulder the mail runner trudge. 
for captain o neil sahib. one hundred and ten rupee to collect on delivery. then. 
their breakfast be stop while the screw jack and hammer tear waxcloth split teak wood and chip out the dammer. 
open eye open mouth on the napery s snow with a crash and a thud roll the head of the boh. 
and gum to the scalp be a letter which run. in field force service. encampment_ th jan. 
dear sir i have honour to send a you said_ for final approval. see under. boh s head. 
be take by myself in most bloody affair. by high education bring pressure to bear. 
now violate liberty time be bad to mail v. p. p. rupee hundred. please add. 
whatever your honour can pas. price of blood much cheap at one hundred and child want food. 
so trust your honour will somewhat retain true love and affection for govt. bullock train. 
and show awful kindness to satisfy me i be graceful master your h. mukerji. 

a the rabbit be draw to the rattlesnake s power a the smoker s eye fill at the opium hour. 
a a horse reach up to the manger above a the wait ear yearn for the whisper of love. 
from the arm of the bride iron visaged and slow the captain bend down to the head of the boh. 
and e en a he look on the thing where it lay twixt the wink new spoon and the napkin array. 
the free mind flee back to the long ago day the hand to hand scuffle the smoke and the blaze. 
the force march at night and the quick rush at dawn the banjo at twilight the burial ere morn. 
the stench of the marsh the raw pierce smell when the overhand stab cut silence the yell. 
the oath of his irish that surge when they stand where the black cross hang o er the kuttamow flood. 
a a derelict ship drift away with the tide the captain go out on the past from his bride. 
back back through the spring to the chill of the year when he hunt the boh from maloon to tsaleer. 
a the shape of a corpse dimmer up through deep water in his eye light the passionless passion of slaughter. 
and men who have fight with o neil for the life have gaze on his face with le dread than his wife. 
for she who have hold him so long could not hold him though a four month eternity should have control him. 
but watch the twin terror the head turn to head the scowl scar black and the flush savage red. 
the spirit that change from her know and fly to some grim hide past she have never a clue to. 
but it know a it grin for he touch it unfearing and mutter aloud so you keep that jade earring. 
then nod and kindly a friend nod to friend old man you fight well but you lose in the end. 

the vision depart and shame follow passion. he take what i say in this horrible fashion. 
_i ll write to harendra. with language unsainted the captain come back to the bride. who have faint. 

and this be a fiction. no. go to simoorie and look at their baby a twelve month old houri. 
a pert little irish eye kathleen mavournin she s always about on the mall of a mornin. 
and you ll see if her right shoulder strap be displace this. gules upon argent_ a boh s head erase. 
the lament of the border cattle thief. 
o woe be me for the merry life i lead beyond the bar and a treble woe for my winsome wife that weep at shalimar. 
they have take away my long jezail my shield and sabre fine and heave me into the central jail for lift of the kine. 
the steer may low within the byre the jat may tend his grain but there ll be neither loot nor fire till i come back again. 
and god have mercy on the jat when once my fetter fall and heaven defend the farmer s hut when i be loose from thrall. 
it s woe to bend the stubborn back above the grinching quern it s woe to hear the leg bar clack and jingle when i turn. 
but for the sorrow and the shame the brand on me and mine i ll pay you back in leap flame and loss of the butcher kine. 
for every cow i spar before in charity set free if i may reach my hold once more i ll reive an honest three. 
for every time i raise the low that scar the dusty plain by sword and cord by torch and tow i ll light the land with twain. 
ride hard ride hard to abazai young sahib with the yellow hair lie close lie close a khuttucks lie fat herd below bonair. 
the one i ll shoot at twilight tide at dawn i ll drive the other. the black shall mourn for hoof and hide the white man for his brother. 
ti war red war i ll give you then war till my sinew fail. for the wrong you have do to a chief of men and a thief of the zukka kheyl. 
and if i fall to your hand afresh i give you leave for the sin that you cram my throat with the foul pig s flesh and swing me in the skin. 
the rhyme of the three captain. 
this ballad appear to refer to one of the exploit of the notorious paul jones the american pirate. it be found on fact. 
at the close of a winter day their anchor down by london town the three great captain lay. and one be admiral of the north from solway firth to skye and one be lord of the wessex coast and all the land thereby and one be master of the thames from limehouse to blackwall and he be captain of the fleet the brave of them all. their good gun guard their great gray side that be thirty foot in the sheer when there come a certain trade brig with news of a privateer. her rig be rough with the clot drift that drive in a northern breeze her side be clog with the lazy weed that spawn in the eastern sea. light she ride in the rude tide rip to leave and right she roll and the skipper sit on the scuttle butt and star at an empty hold. i ha pay port due for your law quoth he and where be the law ye boast if i sail unscathed from a heathen port to be rob on a christian coast. ye have smoke the hive of the laccadives a we burn the louse in a bunk we tack not now to a gallang prow or a plunge pei ho junk. i have no fear but the sea be clear a far a a sail might fare till i meet with a lime wash yankee brig that ride off finisterre. there be canvas blind to his bow gun port to screen the weight he bore and the signal run for a merchantman from sandy hook to the nore. he would not fly the rover flag the bloody or the black but now he float the gridiron and now he flaunt the jack. he speak of the law a he crimp my crew he swear it be only a loan. but when i would ask for my own again he swear it be none of my own. he ha take my little parrakeet that nest beneath the line he ha strip my rail of the shaddock frail and the green unripened pine. he ha take my bale of dammer and spice i win beyond the sea he ha take my grin heathen god and what should he want o these. my foremast would not mend his boom my deckhouse patch his boat. he ha whittle the two this yank yahoo to peddle for shoe peg oat. i could not fight for the fail light and a rough beam sea beside but i hull him once for a clumsy crimp and twice because he lie. have i have gun. a i have good. to work my christian harm i have run him up from his quarter deck to trade with his own yard arm. i have nail his ear to my capstan head and rip them off with a saw and souse them in the bilgewater and serve them to him raw. i have fling him blind in a rudderless boat to rot in the rock dark i have tow him aft of his own craft a bait for his brother shark. i have lap him round with cocoa husk and drench him with the oil and lash him fast to his own mast to blaze above my spoil. i have strip his hide for my hammock side and tasselled his beard i the mesh and spit his crew on the live bamboo that grow through the gangrene flesh. i have heave him down by the mangrove brown where the mud reef suck and draw moor by the heel to his own keel to wait for the land crab s claw. he be lazar within and lime without ye can nose him far enow for he carry the taint of a musky ship the reek of the slaver s dhow. the skipper look at the tiering gun and the bulwark tall and cold and the captain three full courteously peer down at the gutted hold and the captain three call courteously from deck to scuttle butt. good sir we ha deal with that merchantman or ever your teeth be cut. your word be word of a lawless race and the law it standeth thus. he come of a race that have never a law and he never ha board u. we ha sell him canvas and rope and spar we know that his price be fair and we know that he weep for the lack of a law a he ride off finisterre. and since he be damn for a gallows thief by you and good than you we hold it meet that the english fleet should know that we hold him true. the skipper call to the tall taffrail. and what be that to me. do ever you hear of a yankee brig that rifle a seventy three. do i loom so large from your quarter deck that i lift like a ship o the line. he ha learn to run from a shotted gun and harry such craft a mine. there be never a law on the coco key to hold a white man in but we do not steal the nigger meal for that be a nigger s sin. must he have his law a a quid to chaw or lay in brass on his wheel. doe he steal with tear when he buccaneer. fore gad then why doe he steal. the skipper bite on a deep sea word and the word it be not sweet for he could see the captain three have signal to the fleet. but three and two in white and blue the whimper flag begin. we have hear a tale of a foreign sail but he be a merchantman. the skipper peer beneath his palm and swear by the great horn spoon. fore gad the chaplain of the fleet would bless my picaroon. by two and three the flag blow free to lash the laugh air. we have sell our spar to the merchantman we know that his price be fair. the skipper wink his western eye and swear by a china storm. they ha rig him a joseph s jury coat to keep his honour warm. the halliard twang against the top the bunt belly broad the skipper spat in the empty hold and mourn for a waste cord. masthead masthead the signal speed by the line o the british craft. the skipper call to his lascar crew and put her about and laugh. it s mainsail haul my bully boy all we ll out to the sea again ere they set u to paint their pirate saint or scrub at his grapnel chain. it s fore sheet free with her head to the sea and the swing of the unbought brine we ll make no sport in an english court till we come a a ship o the line. till we come a a ship o the line my lad of thirty foot in the sheer lift again from the out main with news of a privateer. fly his pluck at our mizzen truck for weft of admiralty heave his head for our dipsey lead in sign that we keep the sea. then fore sheet home a she lift to the foam we stand on the outward tack we be pay in the coin of the white man s trade the bezant be hard ay and black. the frigate bird shall carry my word to the kling and the orang laut how a man may sail from a heathen coast to be rob in a christian port. how a man may be rob in christian port while three great captain there shall dip their flag to a slaver s rag to show that his trade be fair. 
the ballad of the clampherdown. 
it be our war ship clampherdown would sweep the channel clean wherefore she keep her hatch close when the merry channel chop arise to save the bleach marine. 
she have one bow gun of a hundred ton and a great stern gun beside. they dip their nose deep in the sea they rack their stay and stanchion free in the wash of the wind whip tide. 
it be our war ship clampherdown_ fell in with a cruiser light that carry the dainty hotchkiss gun and a pair o heel wherewith to run from the grip of a close fight fight. 
she open fire at seven mile a ye shoot at a bob cork and once she fire and twice she fire till the bow gun droop like a lily tire that loll upon the stalk. 
captain the bow gun melt apace the deck beam break below twere well to rest for an hour or twain and botch the shatter plate again. and he answer make it so. 
she open fire within the mile a ye shoot at the fly duck and the great stern gun shoot fair and true with the heave of the ship to the stainless blue and the great stern turret stick. 
captain the turret fill with steam the fee pipe burst below you can hear the hiss of the helpless ram you can hear the twist runner jam. and he answer turn and go. 
it be our war ship clampherdown_ and grimly do she roll. swing round to take the cruiser s fire a the white whale face the thresher s ire when they war by the freeze pole. 
captain the shell be fall fast and fast still fall we. and it be not meet for english stock to bide in the heart of an eight day clock the death they cannot see. 
lie down lie down my bold a. b. we drift upon her beam. we dare not ram for she can run. and dare ye fire another gun and die in the peel steam. 
it be our war ship clampherdown that carry an armour belt. but fifty foot at stern and bow lay bare a the paunch of the purser s sow to the hail of the nordenfeldt. 
captain they hack u through and through. the chill steel bolt be swift. we have empty the bunker in open sea their shrapnel burst where our coal should be. and he answer let her drift. 
it be our war ship clampherdown_ swing round upon the tide her two dumb gun glare south and north and the blood and the bubble steam run forth and she grind the cruiser s side. 
captain they cry the fight be do they bid you send your sword. and he answer grapple her stern and bow. they have ask for the steel. they shall have it now. out cutlass and board. 
it be our war ship clampherdown spew up four hundred men. and the scald stoker yelp delight a they roll in the waist and hear the fight stamp o er their steel wall pen. 
they clear the cruiser end to end from con tower to hold. they fight a they fight in nelson s fleet. they be strip to the waist they be bare to the foot a it be in the day of old. 
it be the sink clampherdown heave up her batter side and carry a million pound in steel to the cod and the corpse feed conger eel and the scour of the channel tide. 
it be the crew of the clampherdown stand out to sweep the sea on a cruiser win from an ancient foe a it be in the day of long ago and a it still shall be. 
the ballad of the bolivar. 
seven men from all the world back to dock again roll down the ratcliffe road drink and raise cain. give the girl another drink fore we sign away we that take the bolivar out across the bay. 
we put out from sunderland load down with rail. we put back to sunderland cause our cargo shift. we put out from sunderland meet the winter gale seven day and seven night to the start we drift. racket her rivet loose smoke stack white a snow all the coal adrift adeck half the rail below leak like a lobster pot steer like a dray out we take the bolivar_ out across the bay. 
one by one the light come up wink and let u by. mile by mile we waddle on coal and fo c sle short. meet a blow that lay u down hear a bulkhead fly. leave the wolf behind u with a two foot list to port. trail like a wound duck work out her soul. clang like a smithy shop after every roll. just a funnel and a mast lurch through the spray so we thresh the bolivar out across the bay. 
felt her hog and felt her sag bet when she d break. wonder every time she race if she d stand the shock. hear the sea like drunken men pound at her strake. hop the lord ud keep his thumb on the plummer block. bang against the iron deck bilge choke with coal. flay and freeze foot and hand sick of heart and soul. last we pray she d buck herself into judgment day hi. we curse the bolivar knock round the bay. 
o her nose fling up to sky groan to be still up and down and back we go never time for breath. then the money pay at lloyd s catch her by the heel and the star run round and round dancin at our death. ache for an hour s sleep doze off between. hear the rotten rivet draw when she take it green. watch the compass chase it tail like a cat at play that be on the bolivar_ south across the bay. 
once we saw between the squall lyin head to swell mad with work and weariness wishin they be we some damn liner s light go by like a long hotel. cheer her from the bolivar swampin in the sea. then a grayback clear u out then the skipper laugh. boy the wheel ha go to hell rig the winch aft. yoke the kick rudder head get her under way. so we steer her pulley haul out across the bay. 
just a pack o rotten plate putty up with tar in we come an time enough cross bilbao bar. overload undermanned mean to founder we euchred god almighty s storm bluff the eternal sea. 
seven men from all the world back to town again rollin down the ratcliffe road drink and raise cain. seven men from out of hell. ain t the owner gay cause we take the bolivar safe across the bay. 
the sacrifice of er heb. 
er heb beyond the hill of ao safai bear witness to the truth and ao safai hath tell the men of gorukh. thence the tale come westward o er the peak to india. 
the story of bisesa armod s child a maiden plight to the chief in war the man of sixty spear who hold the pas that lead to thibet but to day be go to seek his comfort of the god call budh the silent show how the sickness cease because of her who die to save the tribe. 
taman be one and great than u all taman be one and great than all god. taman be two in one and ride the sky curve like a stallion s croup from dusk to dawn and drum upon it with his heel whereby be breed the neigh thunder in the hill. 
this be taman the god of all er heb who be before all god and make all god and presently will break the god he make and step upon the earth to govern men who give him milk dry ewe and cheat his priest or leave his shrine unlighted a er heb leave it unlighted and forget taman when all the valley follow after kysh and yabosh little god but very wise and from the sky taman behold their sin. 
he send the sickness out upon the hill the red horse sickness with the iron hoof to turn the valley to taman again. 
and the red horse snuff thrice into the wind the naked wind that have no fear of him. and the red horse stamp thrice upon the snow the naked snow that have no fear of him. and the red horse go out across the rock the ring rock that have no fear of him. and downward where the lean birch meet the snow and downward where the gray pine meet the birch and downward where the dwarf oak meet the pine till at his foot our cup like pasture lay. 
that night the slow mist of the even drop drop a a cloth upon a dead man s face and welter in the valley bluish white like water very silent spread abroad like water very silent from the shrine unlighted of taman to where the stream be dam to fill our cattle trough send up white wave that rock and heave and then be still till all the valley glitter like a marsh beneath the moonlight fill with sluggish mist knee deep so that men wad a they walk. 
that night the red horse graze above the dam beyond the cattle trough. men hear him fee and those that hear him sicken where they lay. 
thus come the sickness to er heb and slew ten men strong men and of the woman four. and the red horse go hillward with the dawn but near the cattle trough his hoof print lay. 
that night the slow mist of the even drop drop a a cloth upon the dead but rise a little high to a young girl s height. till all the valley glitter like a lake beneath the moonlight fill with sluggish mist. 
that night the red horse graze beyond the dam a stone s throw from the trough. men hear him fee and those that hear him sicken where they lay. thus come the sickness to er heb and slew of men a score and of the woman eight and of the child two. 
because the road to gorukh be a road of enemy and ao safai be block with early snow we could not flee from out the valley. death smite at u in a slaughter pen and kysh be mute a yabosh though the goat be slay. and the red horse graze nightly by the stream and late outward towards the unlighted shrine and those that hear him sicken where they lay. 
then say bisesa to the priest at dusk when the white mist rise up breast high and choke the voice in the house of the dead. yabosh and kysh avail not. if the horse reach the unlighted shrine we surely die. ye have forget of all god the chief taman. here roll the thunder through the hill and yabosh shake upon his pedestal. ye have forget of all god the chief too long. and all be dumb save one who cry on yabosh with the sapphire twixt his knee but find no answer in the smoky roof and be smite of the sickness die before the altar of the sapphire shrine. 
then say bisesa. i be near to death and have the wisdom of the grave for gift to bear me on the path my foot must tread. if there be wealth on earth then i be rich for armod be the first of all er heb. if there be beauty on the earth her eye drop for a moment to the temple floor ye know that i be fair. if there be love ye know that love be mine. the chief in war the man of sixty spear break from the press and would have clasp her but the priest withstand say. she ha a message from taman. then say bisesa. by my wealth and love and beauty i be choose of the god taman. here roll the thunder through the hill and kysh fell forward on the mound of skull. 
in darkness and before our priest the maid between the altar cast her bracelet down therewith the heavy earring armod make when he be young out of the water gold of gorukh throw the breast plate thick with jade upon the turquoise anklet put aside the band of silver on her brow and neck. and a the trinket tinkle on the stone the thunder of taman low like a bull. 
then say bisesa stretch out her hand a one in darkness fear devil. help. o priest i be a woman very weak and who be i to know the will of god. taman hath call me whither shall i go. the chief in war the man of sixty spear howl in his torment fetter by the priest but dare not come to her to drag her forth and dare not lift his spear against the priest. then all men weep. 
there be a priest of kysh bend with a hundred winter hairless blind and taloned a the great snow eagle be. his seat be near to the altar fire and he be count dumb among the priest. but whether kysh decree or from taman the impotent tongue find utterance we know a little a the bat beneath the eaves. he cry so that they hear who stand without. to the unlighted shrine. and creep aside into the shadow of his fall god and whimper and bisesa go her way. 
that night the slow mist of the even drop drop a a cloth upon the dead and rise above the roof and by the unlighted shrine lay a the slimy water of the trough when murrain thin the cattle of er heb. and through the mist men hear the red horse fee. 
in armod s house they burn bisesa s dower and kill her black bull tor and break her wheel and loose her hair a for the marriage feast with cry more loud than mourn for the dead. 
across the field from armod s dwell place we hear bisesa weep where she pass to seek the unlighted shrine. the red horse neigh and follow her and on the river mint his hoof strike dead and heavy in our ear. 
out of the mist of even a the star of ao safai climb through the black snow blur to show the pas be clear bisesa step upon the great gray slope of mortise stone the causeway of taman. the red horse neigh behind her to the unlighted shrine then flee north to the mountain where his stable lie. 
they know who dare the anger of taman and watch that night above the cling mist far up the hill bisesa s pass in. 
she set her hand upon the carven door foul by a myriad bat and black with time whereon be grave the glory of taman in letter old than the ao safai. and twice she turn aside and twice she weep cast down upon the threshold clamour for him she love the man of sixty spear and for her father and the black bull tor hers and her pride. yea twice she turn away before the awful darkness of the door and the great horror of the wall of man where man be make the plaything of taman an eyeless face that wait above and laugh. 
but the third time she cry and put her palm against the hew stone leaf and pray taman to spare er heb and take her life for price. 
they know who watch the door be rent apart and close upon bisesa and the rain break like a flood across the valley wash the mist away. but loud than the rain the thunder of taman fill men with fear. 
some say that from the unlighted shrine she cry for succour very pitifully thrice and others that she sing and have no fear. and some that there be neither song nor cry but only thunder and the lash rain. 
howbeit in the morning men rise up perplex with horror crowd to the shrine. and when er heb be gather at the door the priest make lamentation and pass in to a strange temple and a god they fear but know not. 
from the crevice the grass have thrust the altar slab apart the wall be gray with stain unclean the roof beam swell with many colour growth of rottenness and lichen veil the image of taman in leprosy. the basin of the blood above the altar hold the morning sun. a wink ruby on it heart. below face hide in hand the maid bisesa lay. 
er heb beyond the hill of ao safai bear witness to the truth and ao safai hath tell the men of gorukh. thence the tale come westward o er the peak to india. 
the explanation. 
love and death once cease their strife at the tavern of man s life. call for wine and throw ala. each his quiver on the grass. when the bout be o er they find mingle arrow strew the grind. hastily they gather then each the love and life of men. ah the fateful dawn deceive. mingle arrow each one sheaved. death s dread armoury be store with the shaft he most abhor. love s light quiver groan beneath venom head dart of death. 
thus it be they work our woe at the tavern long ago. tell me do our master know loose blindly a they fly old men love while young men die. 
the gift of the sea. 
the dead child lay in the shroud and the widow watch beside. and her mother sleep and the channel sweep the gale in the teeth of the tide. 
but the mother laugh at all. i have lose my man in the sea and the child be dead. be still she say what more can ye do to me. 
the widow watch the dead and the candle gutter low and she try to sing the pass song that bid the poor soul go. 
and mary take you now she sing that lay against my heart. and mary smooth your crib to night but she could not say depart. 
then come a cry from the sea but the sea rime blind the glass and hear ye nothing mother. she say ti the child that wait to pas. 
and the nod mother sigh. ti a lamb ewe in the whin for why should the christen soul cry out that never know of sin. 
o foot i have hold in my hand o hand at my heart to catch how should they know the road to go and how should they lift the latch. 
they lay a sheet to the door with the little quilt atop that it might not hurt from the cold or the dirt but the cry would not stop. 
the widow lift the latch and strain her eye to see and open the door on the bitter shore to let the soul go free. 
there be neither glimmer nor ghost there be neither spirit nor spark and hear ye nothing mother. she say ti cry for me in the dark. 
and the nod mother sigh. ti sorrow make ye dull. have ye yet to learn the cry of the tern or the wail of the wind blow gull. 
the tern be blow inland the gray gull follow the plough. twas never a bird the voice i hear o mother i hear it now. 
lie still dear lamb lie still. the child be pass from harm ti the ache in your breast that break your rest and the feel of an empty arm. 
she put her mother aside in mary s name let be. for the peace of my soul i must go she say and she go to the call sea. 
in the heel of the wind bite pier where the twist weed be pile she come to the life she have miss by an hour for she come to a little child. 
she lay it into her breast and back to her mother she come but it would not fee and it would not heed though she give it her own child s name. 
and the dead child drip on her breast and her own in the shroud lay stark. and god forgive u mother she say we let it die in the dark. 
evarra and his god. 
read here. this be the story of evarra man maker of god in land beyond the sea. because the city give him of her gold because the caravan bring turquoise because his life be shelter by the king so that no man should maim him none should steal or break his rest with babble in the street when he be weary after toil he make an image of his god in gold and pearl with turquoise diadem and human eye a wonder in the sunshine know afar and worship by the king. but drink with pride because the city bow to him for god he write above the shrine. _thus god be make and whoso make them otherwise shall die. and all the city praise him. then he die. 
read here the story of evarra man maker of god in land beyond the sea. because the city have no wealth to give because the caravan be spoil afar because his life be threaten by the king so that all men despise him in the street he hew the live rock with sweat and tear and rear a god against the morning gold a terror in the sunshine see afar and worship by the king. but drink with pride because the city fawn to bring him back he carve upon the plinth. _thus god be make and whoso make them otherwise shall die. and all the people praise him. then he die. 
read here the story of evarra man maker of god in land beyond the sea. because he live among a simple folk because his village be between the hill because he smear his cheek with blood of ewe he cut an idol from a fall pine smear blood upon it cheek and wedge a shell above it brow for eye and give it hair of trail moss and plait straw for crown. and all the village praise him for this craft and bring him butter honey milk and curd. wherefore because the shouting drive him mad he scratch upon that log. _thus god be make and whoso make them otherwise shall die. and all the people praise him. then he die. 
read here the story of evarra man maker of god in land beyond the sea. because his god decree one clot of blood should swerve one hair s breadth from the pulse s path and chafe his brain evarra mow alone rag wrap among the cattle in the field count his finger jest with the tree and mock at the mist until his god drive him to labour. out of dung and horn drop in the mire he make a monstrous god abhorrent shapeless crown with plantain tuft and when the cattle low at twilight time he dream it be the clamour of lose crowd and howl among the beast. _thus god be make and whoso make them otherwise shall die. thereat the cattle bellow. then he die. 
yet at the last he come to paradise and find his own four god and that he write. and marvel be very near to god what oaf on earth have make his toil god s law till god say mock. mock not. these be thine. then cry evarra. i have sin. not so. if thou hadst write otherwise thy god have rest in the mountain and the mine and i be poor by four wondrous god and thy more wondrous law evarra. thine servant of shout crowd and low kine. thereat with laugh mouth but tear wet eye evarra cast his god from paradise. 
this be the story of evarra man maker of god in land beyond the sea. 
the conundrum of the workshop. 
when the flush of a new bear sun fell first on eden s green and gold our father adam sit under the tree and scratch with a stick in the mould. and the first rude sketch that the world have see be joy to his mighty heart till the devil whisper behind the leaf it s pretty but be it art. 
wherefore he call to his wife and flee to fashion his work anew the first of his race who care a fig for the first most dread review. and he leave his lore to the use of his son and that be a glorious gain when the devil chuckle be it art. in the ear of the brand cain. 
they fight and they talk in the north and the south they talk and they fight in the west till the water rise on the pitiful land and the poor red clay have rest have rest till that dank blank canvas dawn when the dive be preen to start and the devil bubble below the keel. it s human but be it art. 
they build a tower to shiver the sky and wrench the star apart till the devil grunt behind the brick. it s strike but be it art. the stone be drop at the quarry side and the idle derrick swing while each man talk of the aim of art and each in an alien tongue. 
the tale be a old a the eden tree and new a the new cut tooth for each man know ere his lip thatch grow he be master of art and truth. and each man hear a the twilight near to the beat of his die heart the devil drum on the darken pane. you do it but be it art. 
we have learn to whittle the eden tree to the shape of a surplice peg we have learn to bottle our parent twain in the yelk of an addle egg we know that the tail must wag the dog for the horse be draw by the cart. but the devil whoop a he whoop of old. it s clever but be it art. 
when the flicker of london sun fall faint on the club room s green and gold the son of adam sit them down and scratch with their pen in the mould they scratch with their pen in the mould of their graf and the ink and the anguish start for the devil mutter behind the leaf. it s pretty but be it art. 
now if we could win to the eden tree where the four great river flow and the wreath of eve be red on the turf a she leave it long ago and if we could come when the sentry sleep and softly scurry through by the favour of god we might know a much a our father adam know. 
the legend of evil. 
i. 
this be the sorrowful story tell when the twilight fail and the monkey walk together hold their neighbour tail. 
our father live in the forest foolish people be they they go down to the cornland to teach the farmer to play. 
our father frisk in the millet our father skip in the wheat our father hang from the branch our father dance in the street. 
then come the terrible farmer nothing of play they know only. they catch our father and set them to labour too. 
set them to work in the cornland with plough and sickle and flail put them in mud wall prison and cut off their beautiful tail. 
now we can watch our father sullen and bow and old stoop over the millet share the silly mould. 
drive a foolish furrow mend a muddy yoke sleep in mud wall prison steep their food in smoke. 
we may not speak to our father for if the farmer know they would come up to the forest and set u to labour too. 
this be the horrible story tell a the twilight fail and the monkey walk together hold their kinsman s tail. 
ii. 
twas when the rain fell steady an the ark be pitch an ready that noah get his order for to take the baste below. he drag them all together by the horn an hide an feather an all excipt the donkey be agreeable to go. 
thin noah speak him fairly thin talk to him sevarely an thin he curse him squarely to the glory av the lord. divil take the as that breed you and the great as that feed you divil go wid you ye spalpeen. an the donkey go aboard. 
but the wind be always failin an twas most onaisy sailin an the lady in the cabin couldn t stand the stable air. an the baste betwuxt the hatch they tuk an die in batch till noah say. there s wan av u that hasn t pay his fare. 
for he hear a flusteration mid the baste av all creation the trumpetin av elephints an bellowin av whale. an he saw forninst the windy whin he wint to stop the shindy the divil wid a stable fork bedivillin their tail. 
the divil curse outrageous but noah say umbrageous. to what be i indebted for this tenant right invasion. an the divil give for answer. evict me if you can sir for i come in wid the donkey on your honour s invitation. 
the english flag. 
above the portico a flag staff bear the union jack remain flutter in the flame for some time but ultimately when it fell the crowd rent the air with shout and seem to see significance in the incident. daily paper. 
wind of the world give answer. they be whimper to and fro and what should they know of england who only england know. the poor little street breed people that vapour and fume and brag they be lift their head in the stillness to yelp at the english flag. 
must we borrow a clout from the boer to plaster anew with dirt. an irish liar s bandage or an english coward s shirt. we may not speak of england. her flag s to sell or share. what be the flag of england. wind of the world declare. 
the north wind blow. from bergen my steel shoe vanguard go. i chase your lazy whaler home from the disko floe. by the great north light above me i work the will of god and the liner split on the ice field or the dogger fill with cod. 
i bar my gate with iron i shutter my door with flame because to force my rampart your nutshell navy come. i take the sun from their presence i cut them down with my blast and they die but the flag of england blow free ere the spirit pass. 
the lean white bear hath see it in the long long arctic night the musk ox know the standard that flout the northern light. what be the flag of england. ye have but my berg to dare ye have but my drift to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
the south wind sigh. from the virgin my mid sea course be ta en over a thousand island lose in an idle main where the sea egg flame on the coral and the long back breaker croon their endless ocean legend to the lazy lock lagoon. 
stray amid lonely islet mazed amid out key i wake the palm to laughter i toss the scud in the breeze never be isle so little never be sea so lone but over the scud and the palm tree an english flag be fly. 
i have wrench it free from the halliard to hang for a wisp on the horn. i have chase it north to the lizard ribboned and roll and tear. i have spread it fold o er the die adrift in a hopeless sea. i have hurl it swift on the slaver and see the slave set free. 
my bask sunfish know it and wheel albatross where the lone wave fill with fire beneath the southern cross. what be the flag of england. ye have but my reef to dare ye have but my sea to furrow. go forth for it be there. 
the east wind roar. from the kuriles the bitter sea i come and me men call the home wind for i bring the english home. look look well to your ship. by the breath of my mad typhoon i sweep your close pack praya and beach your best at kowloon. 
the reel junk behind me and the race sea before i rap your rich roadstead i plunder singapore. i set my hand on the hoogli. a a hood snake she rise and i fling your stout steamer to roost with the startle crow. 
never the lotus close never the wild fowl wake but a soul go out on the east wind that die for england s sake man or woman or suckle mother or bride or maid because on the bone of the english the english flag be stay. 
the desert dust hath dim it the fly wild as know the scar white leopard wind it across the taintless snow. what be the flag of england. ye have but my sun to dare ye have but my sand to travel. go forth for it be there. 
the west wind call. in squadron the thoughtless galleon fly that bear the wheat and cattle l street breed people die. they make my might their porter they make my house their path till i loose my neck from their rudder and whelm them all in my wrath. 
i draw the glide fog bank a a snake be draw from the hole they bellow one to the other the fright ship bell toll for day be a drift terror till i raise the shroud with my breath and they see strange bow above them and the two go lock to death. 
but whether in calm or wrack wreath whether by dark or day i heave them whole to the conger or rip their plate away first of the scatter legion under a shriek sky dip between the roller the english flag go by. 
the dead dumb fog hath wrap it the freeze dew have kiss the naked star have see it a fellow star in the mist. what be the flag of england. ye have but my breath to dare ye have but my wave to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
clear. 
in memory of a commission. 
help for a patriot distress a spotless spirit hurt help for an honourable clan sore trample in the dirt. from queenstown bay to donegal o listen to my song the honourable gentleman have suffer grievous wrong. 
their noble name be mention o the burn black disgrace. by a brutal saxon paper in an irish shoot case. they sit upon it for a year then steel their heart to brave it and coruscate innocence the learn judge give it. 
bear witness heaven of that grim crime beneath the surgeon s knife the honourable gentleman deplore the loss of life. bear witness of those chant choir that burk and shirk and snigger no man lay hand upon the knife or finger to the trigger. 
clear in the face of all mankind beneath the wink sky like ph]oenixes from ph]oenix park. and what lay there. they rise. go shout it to the emerald sea give word to erin now her honourable gentleman be clear and this be how. 
they only pay the moonlighter his cattle hock price they only help the murderer with counsel s best advice but sure it keep their honour white the learn court belief they never give a piece of plate to murderer and thief. 
they never tell the ramp crowd to card a woman s hide they never mark a man for death what fault of theirs he die. they only say intimidate and talk and go away by god the boy that do the work be brave men than they. 
their sin it be that feed the fire small blame to them that hear the bhoys get drink on rhetoric and madden at a word they know whom they be talk at if they be irish too the gentleman that lie in court they know and well they know. 
they only take the juda gold from fenians out of jail they only fawn for dollar on the blood dye clanna gael. if black be black or white be white in black and white it s down they re only traitor to the queen and rebel to the crown. 
clear honourable gentleman. be thankful it s no more. the widow s curse be on your house the dead be at your door. on you the shame of open shame on you from north to south the hand of every honest man flat heel across your mouth. 
le black than we be paint. faith no word of black be say. the light touch be human blood and that you know run red. it s stick to your fist to day for all your sneer and scoff and by the judge s well weigh word you cannot wipe it off. 
hold up those hand of innocence go scare your sheep together the blunder trip tup that bleat behind the old bell wether. and if they snuff the taint and break to find another pen tell them it s tar that glisten so and daub them yours again. 
the charge be old. a old a cain a fresh a yesterday. old a the ten commandment have ye talk those law away. if word be word or death be death or powder send the ball you speak the word that speed the shoot the curse be on you all. 
our friend believe. of course they do a shelter woman may. but have they see the shriek soul rip from the quiver clay. they. if their own front door be shut they ll swear the whole world s warm. what do they know of dread of death or hang fear of harm. 
the secret half a county keep the whisper in the lane the shriek that tell the shoot go home behind the break pane the dry blood crisp in the sun that scare the honest bee and show the bhoys have hear your talk what do they know of these. 
but you you know ay ten time more. the secret of the dead black terror on the country side by word and whisper breed the mangle stallion s scream at night the tail crop heifer s low. who set the whisper go first. you know and well you know. 
my soul. i d sooner lie in jail for murder plain and straight pure crime i d do with my own hand for money lust or hate than take a seat in parliament by fellow felon cheer while one of those not provens prove me clear a you be clear. 
clear you that lose the league account go guard our honour still go help to make our country s law that break god s law at will one hand stick out behind the back to signal strike again. the other on your dress shirt front to show your heart be clane. 
if black be black or white be white in black and white it s down you re only traitor to the queen and rebel to the crown. if print be print or word be word the learn court perpends. we be not rule by murderer but only by their friend. 
an imperial rescript. 
now this be the tale of the council the german kaiser decree to ease the strong of their burden to help the weak in their need he send a word to the people who struggle and pant and sweat that the straw might be count fairly and the tally of brick be set. 
the lord of their hand assemble. from the east and the west they draw baltimore lille and essen brummagem clyde and crewe. and some be black from the furnace and some be brown from the soil and some be blue from the dye vat. but all be weary of toil. 
and the young king say. i have find it the road to the rest ye seek. the strong shall wait for the weary the hale shall halt for the weak. with the even tramp of an army where no man break from the line ye shall march to peace and plenty in the bond of brotherhood sign. 
the paper lay on the table the strong head bow thereby and a wail go up from the people. ay sign give rest for we die. a hand be stretch to the goose quill a fist be cramp to scrawl when the laugh of a blue eye maiden run clear through the council hall. 
and each one hear her laugh a each one saw her plain saidie mimi or olga gretchen or mary jane. and the spirit of man that be in him to the light of the vision wake. and the men draw back from the paper a a yankee delegate speak. 
there s a girl in jersey city who work on the telephone. we re go to hitch our horse and dig for a house of our own with gas and water connection and steam heat through to the top. and w. hohenzollern i guess i shall work till i drop. 
and an english delegate thunder. the weak an the lame be blow. i ve a berth in the sou west workshop a home in the wandsworth road. and till the sociation ha foot my buryin bill i work for the kid an the missus. pull up. i be damn if i will. 
and over the german bench the beard whisper run. lager d girl und d dollar dey make or dey break a man. if schmitt haf collar d dollar he collar d girl deremit. but if schmitt bust in d pizness we collar d girl from schmitt. 
they pass one resolution. your sub committee believe you can lighten the curse of adam when you ve lighten the curse of eve. but till we be build like angel with hammer and chisel and pen we will work for ourself and a woman for ever and ever amen. 
now this be the tale of the council the german kaiser hold the day that they razor the grindstone the day that the cat be bell the day of the fig from thistle the day of the twist sand the day that the laugh of a maiden make light of the lord of their hand. 
tomlinson. 
now tomlinson give up the ghost in his house in berkeley square and a spirit come to his bedside and grip him by the hair a spirit grip him by the hair and carry him far away till he hear a the roar of a rain feed ford the roar of the milky way. till he hear the roar of the milky way die down and drone and cease and they come to the gate within the wall where peter hold the key. stand up stand up now tomlinson and answer loud and high the good that ye do for the sake of men or ever ye come to die the good that ye do for the sake of men in little earth so lone. and the naked soul of tomlinson grow white a a rain wash bone. o i have a friend on earth he say that be my priest and guide and well would he answer all for me if he be by my side. for that ye strive in neighbour love it shall be write fair but now ye wait at heaven s gate and not in berkeley square. though we call your friend from his bed this night he could not speak for you for the race be run by one and one and never by two and two. then tomlinson look up and down and little gain be there for the naked star grin overhead and he saw that his soul be bare. the wind that blow between the world it cut him like a knife and tomlinson take up his tale and speak of his good in life. this i have read in a book he say and that be tell to me and this i have think that another man think of a prince in muscovy. the good soul flock like home dove and bid him clear the path and peter twirl the jangle key in weariness and wrath. ye have read ye have hear ye have think he say and the tale be yet to run. by the worth of the body that once ye have give answer what ha ye do. then tomlinson look back and forth and little good it bore for the darkness stay at his shoulder blade and heaven s gate before. o this i have felt and this i have guess and this i have hear men say and this they write that another man write of a carl in norroway. ye have read ye have felt ye have guess good lack. ye have hamper heaven s gate. there s little room between the star in idleness to prate. o none may reach by hire speech of neighbour priest and kin through borrow deed to god s good meed that lie so fair within. get hence get hence to the lord of wrong for doom ha yet to run and. the faith that ye share with berkeley square uphold you tomlinson. 

the spirit grip him by the hair and sun by sun they fell till they come to the belt of naughty star that rim the mouth of hell. the first be red with pride and wrath the next be white with pain but the third be black with clinker sin that cannot burn again. they may hold their path they may leave their path with never a soul to mark they may burn or freeze but they must not cease in the scorn of the out dark. the wind that blow between the world it nip him to the bone and he yearn to the flare of hell gate there a the light of his own hearth stone. the devil he sit behind the bar where the desperate legion draw but he catch the hasting tomlinson and would not let him through. wot ye the price of good pit coal that i must pay. say he that ye rank yoursel so fit for hell and ask no leave of me. i be all o er sib to adam s breed that ye should give me scorn for i strive with god for your first father the day that he be bear. sit down sit down upon the slag and answer loud and high the harm that ye do to the son of men or ever you come to die. and tomlinson look up and up and saw against the night the belly of a torture star blood red in hell mouth light. and tomlinson look down and down and saw beneath his foot the frontlet of a torture star milk white in hell mouth heat. o i have a love on earth say he that kiss me to my fall and if ye would call my love to me i know she would answer all. all that ye do in love forbid it shall be write fair but now ye wait at hell mouth gate and not in berkeley square. though we whistle your love from her bed to night i trow she would not run for the sin ye do by two and two ye must pay for one by one. the wind that blow between the world it cut him like a knife and tomlinson take up the tale and speak of his sin in life. once i ha laugh at the power of love and twice at the grip of the grave and thrice i ha pat my god on the head that men might call me brave. the devil he blow on a brandered soul and set it aside to cool. do ye think i would waste my good pit coal on the hide of a brain sick fool. i see no worth in the hobnail mirth or the jolthead jest ye do that i should waken my gentleman that be sleep three on a grid. then tomlinson look back and forth and there be little grace for hell gate fill the houseless soul with the fear of naked space. nay this i ha hear quo tomlinson and this be noise abroad and this i ha get from a belgian book on the word of a dead french lord. ye ha hear ye ha read ye ha get good lack. and the tale begin afresh have ye sin one sin for the pride o the eye or the sinful lust of the flesh. then tomlinson he grip the bar and yammer let me in for i mind that i borrow my neighbour s wife to sin the deadly sin. the devil he grin behind the bar and bank the fire high. do ye read of that sin in a book. say he. and tomlinson say ay. the devil he blow upon his nail and the little devil run and he say. go husk this whimper thief that come in the guise of a man. winnow him out twixt star and star and sieve his proper worth. there s sore decline in adam s line if this be spawn of earth. empusa s crew so naked new they may not face the fire but weep that they bin too small to sin to the height of their desire over the coal they chase the soul and rack it all abroad a child rifle a caddis case or the raven s foolish hoard. and back they come with the tattered thing a child after play and they say. the soul that he get from god he ha barter clean away. we have thresh a stook of print and book and winnow a chatter wind and many a soul wherefrom he steal but his we cannot find. we have handle him we have dandle him we have sear him to the bone and sure if tooth and nail show truth he ha no soul of his own. the devil he bow his head on his breast and rumble deep and low. i m all o er sib to adam s breed that i should bid him go. yet close we lie and deep we lie and if i give him place my gentleman that be so proud would flout me to my face. they d call my house a common stew and me a careless host and i would not anger my gentleman for the sake of a shiftless ghost. the devil he look at the mangle soul that pray to feel the flame and he think of holy charity but he think of his own good name. now ye could haste my coal to waste and sit ye down to fry. do ye think of that theft for yourself. say he. and tomlinson say ay. the devil he blow an outward breath for his heart be free from care. ye have scarce the soul of a louse he say but the root of sin be there and for that sin should ye come in be i the lord alone. but sinful pride ha rule inside and mighty than my own. honour and wit fore damn they sit to each his priest and whore. nay scarce i dare myself go there and you they d torture sore. ye be neither spirit nor spirk he say. ye be neither book nor brute go get ye back to the flesh again for the sake of man s repute. i m all o er sib to adam s breed that i should mock your pain but look that ye win to worthy sin ere ye come back again. get hence the hearse be at your door the grim black stallion wait they bear your clay to place to day. speed l ye come too late. go back to earth with a lip unseal go back with an open eye and carry my word to the son of men or ever ye come to die. that the sin they do by two and two they must pay for one by one and. the god that you take from a print book be with you tomlinson. 
l envoi to life s handicap. 
my new cut ashlar take the light where crimson blank the window flare. by my own work before the night great overseer i make my prayer. 
if there be good in that i work thy hand compel it master thine. where i have fail to meet thy think i know through thee the blame be mine. 
one instant s toil to thee deny stand all eternity s offence of that i do with thee to guide to thee through thee be excellence. 
who l all think of eden fade bring st eden to the craftsman s brain godlike to muse o er his own trade and manlike stand with god again. 
the depth and dream of my desire the bitter path wherein i stray thou knowest who hast make the fire thou knowest who hast make the clay. 
one stone the more swing to her place in that dread temple of thy worth it be enough that through thy grace i saw naught common on thy earth. 
take not that vision from my ken. oh whatsoe er may spoil or speed help me to need no aid from men that i may help such men a need. 
l envoi. 
there s a whisper down the field where the year ha shoot her yield and the rick stand gray to the sun sing. over then come over for the bee ha quit the clover and your english summer s do. you have hear the beat of the off shore wind and the thresh of the deep sea rain. you have hear the song how long. how long. pull out on the trail again. 
ha do with the tent of shem dear lass we ve see the season through and it s time to turn on the old trail our own trail the out trail pull out pull out on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
it s north you may run to the rime ring sun or south to the blind horn s hate. or east all the way into mississippi bay or west to the golden gate. where the blind bluff hold good dear lass and the wild tale be true and the men bulk big on the old trail our own trail the out trail and life run large on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
the day be sick and cold and the sky be gray and old and the twice breathe air blow damp. and i d sell my tire soul for the buck beam sea roll of a black bilbao tramp. with her load line over her hatch dear lass and a drunken dago crew and her nose hold down on the old trail our own trail the out trail from cadiz bar on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
there be triple way to take of the eagle or the snake or the way of a man with a maid. but the fair way to me be a ship s upon the sea in the heel of the north east trade. can you hear the crash on her bow dear lass and the drum of the race screw a she ship it green on the old trail our own trail the out trail a she lift and scend on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
see the shake funnel roar with the peter at the fore and the fender grind and heave and the derrick clack and grate a the tackle hook the crate and the fall rope whine through the sheave. it s gang plank up and in dear lass it s hawser warp her through. and it s all clear aft on the old trail our own trail the out trail we re back down on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
o the mutter overside when the port fog hold u tie and the siren hoot their dread. when foot by foot we creep o er the hueless viewless deep to the sob of the quest lead. it s down by the low hope dear lass with the gunfleet sand in view till the mouse swing green on the old trail our own trail the out trail and the gull light lift on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
o the blaze tropic night when the wake s a welt of light that hold the hot sky tame and the steady fore foot snore through the planet powder floor where the scar whale fluke in flame. her plate be scar by the sun dear lass and her rope be taut with the dew for we re boom down on the old trail our own trail the out trail we re sag south on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
then home get her home where the drunken roller comb and the shout sea drive by and the engine stamp and ring and the wet bow reel and swing and the southern cross ride high. yes the old lose star wheel back dear lass that blaze in the velvet blue. they re all old friend on the old trail our own trail the out trail they re god s own guide on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
fly forward o my heart from the foreland to the start we re steam all too slow and it s twenty thousand mile to our little lazy isle where the trumpet orchid blow. you have hear the call of the off shore wind and the voice of the deep sea rain. you have hear the song how long. how long. pull out on the trail again. 
the lord know what we may find dear lass and the deuce know what we may do but we re back once more on the old trail our own trail the out trail we re down hull down on the long trail the trail that be always new. 
the seven sea. 

dedication. 
to the city of bombay. 
the city be full of pride challenge each to each this from her mountain side that from her burthen beach. 
they count their ship full tale their corn and oil and wine derrick and loom and bale and rampart s gun fleck line. city by city they hail. hast aught to match with mine. 
and the men that breed from them they traffic up and down but cling to their city hem a a child to their mother s gown. 
when they talk with the strange band daze and newly alone. when they walk in the strange land by roar street unknown. bless her where she stand for strength above their own. 
on high to hold her fame that stand all fame beyond by oath to back the same most faithful foolish fond. make her mere breathe name their bond upon their bond. 
so thank i god my birth fell not in isle aside waste headland of the earth or war tribe untried but that she lend me worth and give me right to pride. 
surely in toil or fray under an alien sky comfort it be to say. of no mean city be i. 
neither by service nor fee come i to mine estate mother of city to me for i be bear in her gate between the palm and the sea where the world end steamer wait. 
now for this debt i owe and for her far bear cheer must i make haste and go with tribute to her pier. 
and she shall touch and remit after the use of king. orderly ancient fit. my deep sea plundering and purchase in all land. and this we do for a sign her power be over mine and mine i hold at her hand. 
the seven sea. 
a song of the english. 
fair be our lot o goodly be our heritage. humble ye my people and be fearful in your mirth. for the lord our god most high he hath make the deep a dry he hath smite for u a pathway to the end of all the earth. 
yea though we sin and our ruler go from righteousness deep in all dishonour though we stain our garment hem. oh be ye not dismay though we stumble and we stray we be lead by evil counsellor the lord shall deal with them. 
hold ye the faith the faith our father seal]\ed u. whore not with vision overwise and overstale. except ye pay the lord single heart and single sword of your child in their bondage shall he ask them treble tale. 
keep ye the law be swift in all obedience clear the land of evil drive the road and bridge the ford. make ye sure to each his own that he reap where he hath sow. by the peace among our people let men know we serve the lord. 

hear now a song a song of break interlude a song of little cunning. of a singer nothing worth. through the naked word and mean may ye see the truth between a the singer know and touch it in the end of all the earth. 
the coastwise light. 
our brow be bind with spindrift and the weed be on our knee. our loin be batter neath u by the swing smoke sea. from reef and rock and skerry over headland ness and voe the coastwise light of england watch the ship of england go. 
through the endless summer evening on the lineless level floor. through the yell channel tempest when the siren hoot and roar by day the dip house flag and by night the rocket s trail a the sheep that graze behind u so we know them where they hail. 
we bridge across the dark and bid the helmsman have a care the flash that wheel inland wake his sleep wife to prayer. from our vex eyry head to gale we bind in burn chain the lover from the sea rim draw his love in english lane. 
we greet the clipper wing and wing that race the southern wool. we warn the crawl cargo tank of bremen leith and hull. to each and all our equal lamp at peril of the sea the white wall side war ship or the whaler of dundee. 
come up come in from eastward from the guardports of the morn. beat up beat in from southerly o gipsy of the horn. swift shuttle of an empire s loom that weave u main to main the coastwise light of england give you welcome back again. 
go get you go up channel with the sea crust on your plate. go get you into london with the burden of your freight. haste for they talk of empire there and say if any seek the light of england send you and by silence shall ye speak. 
the song of the dead. 
hear now the song of the dead in the north by the tear berg edge they that look still to the pole asleep by their hide strip sledge. song of the dead in the south in the sun by their skeleton horse where the warrigal whimper and bay through the dust of the sear river course. 
song of the dead in the east in the heat rot jungle hollow where the dog ape bark in the kloof in the brake of the buffalo wallow. song of the dead in the west in the barren the waste that betray them where the wolverene tumble their pack from the camp and the grave mound they make them. hear now the song of the dead. 
i. 
we be dreamer dream greatly in the man stifle town. we yearn beyond the sky line where the strange road go down. come the whisper come the vision come the power with the need till the soul that be not man s soul be lend u to lead. a the deer break a the steer break from the herd where they graze in the faith of little child we go on our way. then the wood fail then the food fail then the last water dry in the faith of little child we lay down and die. on the sand drift on the veldt side in the fern scrub we lay that our son might follow after by the bone on the way. follow after follow after. we have water the root and the bud ha come to blossom that ripen for fruit. follow after we be wait by the trail that we lose for the sound of many footstep for the tread of a host. follow after follow after for the harvest be sow. by the bone about the wayside ye shall come to your own. 
when drake go down to the horn and england be crown thereby twixt sea unsailed and shore unhailed our lodge our lodge be bear. and england be crown thereby. 
which never shall close again by day nor yet by night while man shall take his life to stake at risk of shoal or main. by day nor yet by night. 
but standeth even so a now we witness here while men depart of joyful heart adventure for to know. a now bear witness here. 
ii. 
we have feed our sea for a thousand year and she call u still unfed though there s never a wave of all her wave but mark our english dead. we have straw our best to the weed s unrest to the shark and the sheer gull. if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay in full. 
there s never a flood go shoreward now but lift a keel we man. there s never an ebb go seaward now but drop our dead on the sand but slink our dead on the sand forlore from the ducies to the swin. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha pay it in. 
we must fee our sea for a thousand year for that be our doom and pride a it be when they sail with the golden hind_ or the wreck that strike last tide or the wreck that lie on the spout reef where the ghastly blue light flare. if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty if blood be the price of admiralty lord god we ha buy it fair. 
the deep sea cable. 
the wreck dissolve above u. their dust drop down from afar down to the dark to the utter dark where the blind white sea snake be. there be no sound no echo of sound in the desert of the deep or the great gray level plain of ooze where the shell bur cable creep. 
here in the womb of the world here on the tie rib of earth word and the word of men flicker and flutter and beat warn sorrow and gain salutation and mirth for a power trouble the still that ha neither voice nor foot. 
they have waken the timeless thing. they have kill their father time. join hand in the gloom a league from the last of the sun. hush. men talk to day o er the waste of the ultimate slime and a new word run between. whisper let u be one. 
the song of the son. 
one from the end of the earth gift at an open door treason ha much but we mother thy son have more. from the whine of a die man from the snarl of a wolf pack free turn and the world be thine. mother be proud of thy seed. count be we feeble or few. hear be our speech so rude. look be we poor in the land. judge be we men of the blood. 
those that have stay at thy knee mother go call them in we that be breed overseas wait and would speak with our kin. not in the dark do we fight haggle and flout and gibe. sell our love for a price loan our heart for a bribe. gift have we only to day love without promise or fee hear for thy child speak from the uttermost part of the sea. 
the song of the city. 
bombay. 
royal and dower royal i the queen front thy rich sea with rich hand a thousand mill roar through me where i glean all race from all land. 
calcutta. 
me the sea captain love the river build wealth seek and king adventure life to hold. hail england. i be asia power on silt death in my hand but gold. 
madras. 
clive kiss me on the mouth and eye and brow wonderful kiss so that i become crown above queen a wither beldame now brood on ancient fame. 
rangoon. 
hail mother. do they call me rich in trade. little care i but hear the shorn priest drone and watch my silk clothe lover man by maid laugh neath my shwe dagon. 
singapore. 
hail mother. east and west must seek my aid ere the spend gear may dare the port afar. the second doorway of the wide world s trade be mine to loose or bar. 
hong kong. 
hail mother. hold me fast. my praya sleep under innumerable keel to day. yet guard. and landward. or to morrow sweep thy war ship down the bay. 
halifax. 
into the mist my guardian prow put forth behind the mist my virgin rampart lie the warden of the honour of the north sleepless and veil be i. 
quebec and montreal. 
peace be our portion. yet a whisper rise foolish and causeless half in jest half hate. now wake we and remember mighty blow and fear no man wait. 
victoria. 
from east to west the circle word ha pass till west be east beside our land lock blue. from east to west the test chain hold fast the well forge link ring true. 
cape town. 
hail. snatch and barter oft from hand to hand i dream my dream by rock and heath and pine of empire to the northward. ay one land from lion s head to line. 
melbourne. 
greet. nor fear nor favour win u place get between greed of gold and dread of drouth loud voice and reckless a the wild tide race that whip our harbour mouth. 
sydney. 
greet. my birth stain have i turn to good. force strong will perverse to steadfastness. the first flush of the tropic in my blood and at my foot success. 
brisbane. 
the northern stirp beneath the southern sky i build a nation for an empire s need suffer a little and my land shall rise queen over land indeed. 
hobart. 
man s love first find me. man s hate make me hell. for my babe sake i cleanse those infamy. earnest for leave to live and labour well god fling me peace and ease. 
auckland. 
last lonely lovely exquisite apart on u on u the unswerving season smile who wonder mid our fern why men depart to seek the happy isle. 
england s answer. 
truly ye come of the blood. slow to bless than to ban. little use to lie down at the bid of any man. flesh of the flesh that i breed bone of the bone that i bare. stark a your son shall be stern a your father be. deep than speech our love strong than life our tether but we do not fall on the neck nor kiss when we come together. my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. son i have bear many son but my dug be not dry. look i have make ye a place and open wide the door that ye may talk together your baron and councillor ward of the out march lord of the low sea ay talk to your gray mother that bore you on her knee. that ye may talk together brother to brother s face thus for the good of your people thus for the pride of the race. also we will make promise. so long a the blood endure i shall know that your good be mine. ye shall feel that my strength be yours. in the day of armageddon at the last great fight of all that our house stand together and the pillar do not fall. draw now the threefold knot firm on the ninefold band and the law that ye make shall be law after the rule of your land. this for the waxen heath and that for the wattle bloom this for the maple leaf and that for the southern broom. the law that ye make shall be law and i do not press my will because ye be son of the blood and call me mother still. now must ye speak to your kinsman and they must speak to you after the use of the english in straight fling word and few. go to your work and be strong halt not in your way balk the end half win for an instant dole of praise. stand to your work and be wise certain of sword and pen who be neither child nor god but men in a world of men. 
the first chantey. 
mine be the woman to me darkling i find her. hale her dumb from the camp take her and bind her. hot rise her tribe on our track ere i have prove her. hear her laugh in the gloom greatly i love her. 
swift through the forest we run. none stand to guard u few be my people and far. then the flood bar u him we call son of the sea sullen and swell. pant we wait the death stealer and steal. 
yet ere they come to my lance lay for the slaughter lightly she leap to a log lap in the water. hold on high and apart skin that array her call she the god of the wind that he should aid her. 
life have the tree at that word. praise we the giver. otter like leave he the bank for the full river. far fell their ax behind flash and ring wonder be on me and fear yet she be sing. 
low lay the land we have leave. now the blue bind u even the floor of the god level around u. whisper there be not nor word shadow nor show till the light stir on the deep glow and grow. 
then do he leap to his place flare from under he the compeller the sun bar to our wonder. nay not a league from our eye blind with gaze clear he the gate of the world huge and amaze. 
this we behold. and we live. the pit of the burn. then the god speak to the tree for our return. back to the beach of our flight fearless and slowly back to our slayer go he. but we be holy. 
men that be hot in that hunt woman that follow babe that be promise our bone tremble and wallow. over the neck of the tribe crouch and fawn prophet and priestess we come back from the dawn. 
the last chantey. 
_and there be no more sea. 
thus say the lord in the vault above the cherub call to the angel and the soul in their degree. lo. earth ha pass away on the smoke of judgment day. that our word may be establish shall we gather up the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner. plague upon the hurricane that make u furl and flee. but the war be do between u in the deep the lord hath see u our bone we ll leave the barracout and god may sink the sea. 
then say the soul of juda that betray]\ed him. lord hast thou forget thy covenant with me. how once a year i go to cool me on the floe. and ye take my day of mercy if ye take away the sea. 
then say the soul of the angel of the off shore wind. he that bit the thunder when the bull mouth breaker flee. i have watch and ward to keep o er thy wonder on the deep and ye take mine honour from me if ye take away the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner. nay but we be angry and a hasty folk be we. if we work the ship together till she founder in foul weather be we babe that we should clamour for a vengeance on the sea. 
then say the soul of the slave that men throw overboard. kennel in the picaroon a weary band be we. but thy arm be strong to save and it touch u on the wave and we drowse the long tide idle till thy trumpet tear the sea. 
then cry the soul of the stout apostle paul to god. once we frap a ship and she labour woundily. there be fourteen score of these and they bless thee on their knee when they learn thy grace and glory under malta by the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner pluck at their harp and they pluck unhandily. our thumb be rough and tar and the tune be something hard may we lift a deep sea chantey such a seaman use at sea. 
then say the soul of the gentleman adventurer fetter wrist to bar all for red iniquity. ho we revel in our chain o er the sorrow that be spain s. heave or sink it leave or drink it we be master of the sea. 
up spake the soul of a gray gothavn speckshioner. he that lead the flinch in the fleet of fair dundee. oh the ice blink white and near and the bowhead breach clear. will ye whelm them all for wantonness that wallow in the sea. 
loud sing the soul of the jolly jolly mariner cry. under heaven here be neither lead nor lee. must we sing for evermore on the windless glassy floor. take back your golden fiddle and we ll beat to open sea. 
then stoop the lord and he call the good sea up to him and stablished his border unto all eternity that such a have no pleasure for to praise the lord by measure they may enter into galleon and serve him on the sea. 
sun wind and cloud shall fail not from the face of it sting ring spindrift nor the fulmar fly free. and the ship shall go abroad to the glory of the lord who hear the silly sailor folk and give them back their sea. 
the merchantman. 
king solomon draw merchantman because of his desire for peacock ape and ivory from tarshish unto tyre. with cedar out of lebanon which hiram raft down but we be only sailormen that use in london town. 
coastwise cross sea round the world and back again where the flaw shall head u or the full trade suit plain sail storm sail lay your board and tack again and that s the way we ll pay paddy doyle for his boot. 
we bring no store of ingot of spice or precious stone but that we have we gather with sweat and ache bone. in flame beneath the tropic in frost upon the floe and jeopardy of every wind that doe between them go. 
and some we get by purchase and some we have by trade and some we find by courtesy of pike and carronade at midnight mid sea meeting for charity to keep and light the roll homeward bind that ride a foot too deep. 
by sport of bitter weather we re walty strain and scar from the kentledge on the kelson to the sling upon the yard. six ocean have their will of u to carry all away our galley s in the baltic and our boom s in mossel bay. 
we ve flounder off the texel awash with sodden deal we ve slip from valparaiso with the norther at our heel. we ve ratched beyond the crossets that tusk the southern pole and dip our gunnel under to the dread agulhas roll. 
beyond all out chart we sail where none have sail and saw the land light burn on island none have hail. our hair stand up for wonder but when the night be do there dance the deep to windward blue empty neath the sun. 
strange consort ride beside u and bring u evil luck. the witch fire climb our channel and flare on vane and truck. till through the red tornado that lash u nigh to blind we saw the dutchman plunge full canvas head to wind. 
we ve hear the midnight leadsman that call the black deep down ay thrice we ve hear the swimmer the thing that may not drown. on freeze bunt and gasket the sleet cloud drave her host when man by more than sign with u we pass the isle o ghost. 
and north amid the hummock a biscuit toss below we meet the silent shallop that fright whaler know. for down a cruel ice lane that open a he speed we saw dead henry hudson steer north by west his dead. 
so deal god s water with u beneath the roar sky so walk his sign and marvel all naked to our eye. but we be head homeward with trade to lose or make good lord they slip behind u in the tail of our wake. 
let go let go the anchor. now sham at heart be we to bring so poor a cargo home that have for gift the sea. let go the great bow anchor ah fool be we and blind the bad we store with utter toil the best we leave behind. 
coastwise cross sea round the world and back again whither flaw shall fail u or the trade drive down. plain sail storm sail lay your board and tack again and all to bring a cargo up to london town. 
m andrew s hymn. 
lord thou hast make this world below the shadow of a dream an teach by time i tak it so exceptin always steam. from coupler flange to spindle guide i see thy hand o god predestination in the stride o yon connectin rod. john calvin might ha forge the same enorrmous certain slow ay work it in the furnace flame my institutio. i cannot get my sleep to night. old bone be hard to please. i ll stand the middle watch up here alone wi god an these my engine after ninety day o race an rack an strain through all the sea of all thy world slam bangin home again. slam bang too much they knock a wee the crosshead gib be loose. but thirty thousand mile o sea ha gi them fair excuse. fine clear an dark a full draught breeze wi ushant out o sight an ferguson relievin hay. old girl ye ll walk to night. his wife s at plymouth. seventy one two three since he begin three turn for mistress ferguson. and who s to blame the man. there s none at any port for me by drivin fast or slow since elsie campbell go to thee lord thirty year ago. the year the sarah sand be burn. oh road we use to tread fra maryhill to pollokshaws fra govan to parkhead. not but they re ceevil on the board. ye ll hear sir kenneth say. good morrn m andrew. back again. an how s your bilge to day. miscallin technicality but handin me my chair to drink madeira wi three earl the auld fleet engineer that start a a boiler whelp when steam and he be low. i mind the time we use to serve a break pipe wi tow. ten pound be all the pressure then eh. eh. a man wad drive. an here our workin gauge give one hunder fifty five. we re creepin on wi each new rig le weight an large power. there ll be the loco boiler next an thirty knot an hour. thirty an more. what i ha see since ocean steam begin leaf me no doot for the machine. but what about the man. the man that count wi all his run one million mile o sea. four time the span from earth to moon. how far o lord from thee. that wast beside him night an day. ye mind my first typhoon. it scoughed the skipper on his way to jock wi the saloon. three foot be on the stokehold floor just slappin to an fro an cast me on a furnace door. i have the mark to show. mark. i ha mark o more than burn deep in my soul an black an time like this when thing go smooth my wickudness come back. the sin o four and forty year all up an down the sea clack an repeat like valve half feed. forgie s our trespass. night when i d come on deck to mark wi envy in my gaze the couple kittlin in the dark between the funnel stay. year when i rake the port wi pride to fill my cup o wrong judge not o lord my step aside at gay street in hong kong. blot out the wastrel hour of mine in sin when i abide jane harrigan s an number nine the reddick an grant road. an waur than all my crownin sin rank blasphemy an wild. i be not four and twenty then ye wadna judge a child. i d see the tropic first that run new fruit new smell new air how could i tell blind fou wi sun the deil be lurkin there. by day like playhouse scene the shore slide past our sleepy eye. by night those soft lasceevious star leer from those velvet sky in port. we use no cargo steam. i d daunder down the street an ijjit grinnin in a dream for shell an parrakeet an walkin stick o carve bamboo an blowfish stuff an dry fillin my bunk wi rubbishry the chief put overside. till off sambawa head ye mind i hear a land breeze ca milk warm wi breath o spice an bloom. m andrew come awa. firm clear an low no haste no hate the ghostly whisper go just statin eevidential fact beyon all argument. your mither s god s a graspin deil the shadow o yoursel get out o book by meenisters clean daft on heaven an hell. they mak him in the broomielaw o glasgie cold an dirt a jealous pridefu fetich lad that s only strong to hurt ye ll not go back to him again an kiss his red hot rod but come wi u. now who be they. an know the leevin god that doe not kipper soul for sport or break a life in jest but swell the ripenin cocoanut an rip the woman s breast. an there it stop. cut off. no more. that quiet certain voice for me six month o twenty four to leave or take at choice. twas on me like a thunderclap it rack me through an through temptation past the show o speech unnameable an new the sin against the holy ghost. an under all our screw. that storm blow by but leave behind her anchor shiftin swell thou knowest all my heart an mind thou knowest lord i fell. third on the mary gloster then and first that night in hell. yet be thy hand beneath my head about my foot thy care fra deli clear to torres strait the trial o despair but when we touch the barrier reef thy answer to my prayer. we dare not run that sea by night but lay an hold our fire an i be drowsin on the hatch sick sick wi doubt an tire. _better the sight of eye that see than wanderin o desire. ye mind that word. clear a our gong again an once again when rippin down through coral trash run out our moorin chain. an by thy grace i have the light to see my duty plain. light on the engine room no more bright a our carbon burn. i ve lose it since a thousand time but never past return. 

obsairve. per annum we ll have here two thousand soul aboard think not i dare to justify myself before the lord but average fifteen hunder soul safe bear fra port to port i be o service to my kind. ye wadna blame the think. maybe they steam from grace to wrath to sin by folly lead it isna mine to judge their path their life be on my head. mine at the last when all be do it all come back to me the fault that leaf six thousand ton a log upon the sea. we ll tak one stretch three week an odd by any road ye steer fra cape town east to wellington ye need an engineer. fail there ye ve time to weld your shaft ay eat it ere ye re speak. or make kerguelen under sail three jigger burn wi smoke. an home again the rio run. it s no child s play to go steamin to bell for fourteen day o snow an floe an blow the berg like kelpy overside that girn an turn an shift whaur grindin like the mill o god go by the big south drift. hail snow an ice that praise the lord. i ve meet them at their work an wish we have anither route or they anither kirk. yon s strain hard strain o head an hand for though thy power bring all skill to naught ye ll understand a man must think o thing. then at the last we ll get to port an hoist their baggage clear the passenger wi glove an cane an this be what i ll hear. well thank ye for a pleasant voyage. the tender s comin now. while i go testin follower bolt an watch the skipper bow. they ve word for every one but me shake hand wi half the crew except the dour scot engineer the man they never know. an yet i like the wark for all we ve dam few pickin s here no pension an the most we earn s four hunder pound a year. good myself abroad. maybe. i d sooner starve than sail wi such a call a snifter rod ross. french for nightingale. commeesion on my store. some do. but i can not afford to lie like steward wi patty pan. i m old than the board. a bonus on the coal i save. ou ay the scot be close but when i grudge the strength ye give i ll grudge their food to those. there s brick that i might recommend an clink the fire bar cruel. no. welsh wangarti at the bad an damn all patent fuel. invention. ye must stay in port to mak a patent pay. my deeferential valve gear teach me how that business lay i blame no chap wi clear head for aught they make or sell. i find that i could not invent an look to these a well. so wrestle wi apollyon nah. fret like a bairn but burn the workin plan last run wi all i hop to earn. ye know how hard an idol dy an what that mean to me e en tak it for a sacrifice acceptable to thee. below there. oiler. what s your wark. ye find it runnin hard. ye needn t swill the cap wi oil this isn t the cunard. ye think. ye be not pay to think. go sweat that off again. tck. tck. it s deeficult to sweer nor tak the name in vain. men ay an woman call me stern. wi these to oversee ye ll note i ve little time to burn on social repartee. the bairn see what their elder miss. they ll hunt me to an fro till for the sake of well a kiss i tak em down below. that mind me of our viscount loon sir kenneth s kin the chap wi russia leather tennis shoon an spar deck yachtin cap. i show him round last week o er all an at the last say he. mister m andrew don t you think steam spoil romance at sea. damn ijjit. i d be doon that morn to see what ail the throw manholin on my back the crank three inch off my nose. romance. those first class passenger they like it very well print an bind in little book. but why don t poet tell. i m sick of all their quirk an turn the love an dove they dream lord send a man like robbie burn to sing the song o steam. to match wi scotia s noble speech yon orchestra sublime whaurto uplift like the just the tail rod mark the time. the crank throw give the double bass the fee pump sob an heave an now the main eccentric start their quarrel on the sheaf. her time her own appoint time the rock link head bid till hear that note. the rod s return whings glimmerin through the guide. they re all awa. true beat full power the clangin chorus go clear to the tunnel where they sit my purrin dynamo. interdependence absolute foresee ordain decree to work ye ll note at any tilt an every rate o speed. fra skylight lift to furnace bar back bolt brace an stay an singin like the mornin star for joy that they be make. while out o touch o vanity the sweatin thrust block say. not unto u the praise or man not unto u the praise. now a together hear them lift their lesson theirs an mine. law orrder duty an restraint obedience discipline. mill forge an try pit teach them that when roarin they arise an while i wonder if a soul be gi them wi the blow. oh for a man to weld it then in one trip hammer strain till even first class passenger could tell the meanin plain. but no one care except mysel that serve an understand my seven thousand horse power here. eh lord. they re grand they re grand. uplift be i. when first in store the new make beasties stand be ye cast down that breathe the word declarin all thing good. not so. o that warld liftin joy no after fall could vex ye ve leave a glimmer still to cheer the man the arrtifex. that hold in spite o knock and scale o friction waste an slip an by that light now mark my word we ll build the perfect ship. i ll never last to judge her line or take her curve not i. but i ha live an i ha work. be thank to thee most high. an i ha do what i ha do judge thou if ill or well always thy grace preventin me. losh. yon s the stand by bell. pilot so soon. his flare it be. the mornin watch be set. well god be thank a i be sayin i m no pelagian yet. now i ll tak on. morrn ferguson. man have ye ever think what your good leddy cost in coal. i ll burn em down to port. 
the miracle. 
i send a message to my dear a thousand league and more to her the dumb sea level thrill to hear and lose atlantis bore to her. 
behind my message hard i come and nigh have find a grave for me. but that i launch of steel and flame do war against the wave for me. 
uprise the deep by gale on gale to bid me change my mind again he break his teeth along my rail and roar swing behind again. 
i stay the sun at noon to tell my way across the waste of it. i read the storm before it fell and make the good haste of it. 
afar i hail the land at night the tower i build have hear of me and ere my rocket reach it height have flash my love the word of me. 
earth sell her choose men of strength. they live and strive and die for me. to drive my road a nation s length and toss the mile aside for me. 
i snatch their toil to serve my need too slow their fleet fly for me i tire twenty smoke steed and bid them bait a new for me. 
i send the lightning forth to see where hour by hour she wait me. among ten million one be she and surely all men hat me. 
dawn run to meet me at my goal ah day no tongue shall tell again. and little folk of little soul rise up to buy and sell again. 
the native bear. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. but he doe not understand. we ve drink to the wide creation and the cross swing low for the morn. last toast and of obligation a health to the native bear. 
they change their sky above them but not their heart that roam. we learn from our wistful mother to call old england home. we read of the english skylark of the spring in the english lane but we scream with the paint lory a we ride on the dusty plain. 
they pass with their old world legend their tale of wrong and dearth our father hold by purchase but we by the right of birth. our heart s where they rock our cradle our love where we spend our toil and our faith and our hope and our honour we pledge to our native soil. 
i charge you charge your glass i charge you drink with me to the men of the four new nation and the island of the sea to the last least lump of coral that none may stand outside and our own good pride shall teach u to praise our comrade s pride. 
to the hush of the breathless morning on the thin tin crackle roof to the haze of the burn back range and the dust of the shoeless hoof to the risk of a death by drown to the risk of a death by drouth to the men of a million acre to the son of the golden south. 
to the son of the golden south. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a single blow. 
to the smoke of a hundred coaster to the sheep on a thousand hill to the sun that never blister to the rain that never chill to the land of the wait spring time to our five meal meat feed men to the tall deep bosom woman and the child nine and ten. 
and the child nine and ten. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a two fold blow. 
to the far fling fenceless prairie where the quick cloud shadow trail to our neighbour s barn in the off and the line of the new cut rail. to the plough in her league long furrow with the gray lake gull behind to the weight of a half year s winter and the warm wet western wind. 
to the home of the flood and thunder to her pale dry heal blue to the lift of the great cape comber and the smell of the bake karroo. to the growl of the sluice stamp head to the reef and the water gold to the last and the large empire to the map that be half unroll. 
to our dear dark foster mother to the heathen song they sing to the heathen speech we babble ere we come to the white man s tongue. to the cool of our deep veranda to the blaze of our jewel main to the night to the palm in the moonlight and the fire fly in the cane. 
to the hearth of our people s people to her well plough windy sea to the hush of our dread high altar where the abbey make u we. to the grist of the slow grind age to the gain that be yours and mine to the bank of the open credit to the power house of the line. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. and we hope he ll understand. we ve drink a much a we re able and the cross swing low for the morn. last toast and your foot on the table. a health to the native bear. 
a health to the native bear. stand up. we re six white men arow all bind to sing o the little thing we care about all bind to fight for the little thing we care about with the weight of a six fold blow. by the might of our cable tow. take hand. from the orkneys to the horn all round the world. and a little loop to pull it by. all round the world. and a little strap to buckle it. a health to the native bear. 
the king. 
farewell romance. the cave men say. with bone well carve he go away flint arm the ignoble arrowhead and jasper tip the spear to day. change be the god of hunt and dance and he with these. farewell romance. 
farewell romance. the lake folk sigh. we lift the weight of flatling year. the cavern of the mountain side hold him who scorn our hutted pier. lose hill whereby we dare not dwell guard ye his rest. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the soldier speak. by sleight of sword we may not win but scuffle mid uncleanly smoke of arquebus and culverin. honour be lose and none may tell who pay good blow. romance farewell. 
farewell romance. the trader cry. our keel ha lie with every sea. the dull return wind and tide heave up the wharf where we would be. the know and note breeze swell our trudge sail. romance farewell. 
good bye romance. the skipper say. he vanish with the coal we burn. our dial mark full steam ahead our speed be time to half a turn. sure a the ferry barge we ply twixt port and port. romance good bye. 
romance. the season ticket mourn _he never run to catch his train but pass with coach and guard and horn and leave the local late again. confound romance. and all unseen romance bring up the nine fifteen. 
his hand be on the lever lay his oil can soothe the worry crank his whistle wake the snowbound grade his fog horn cut the reek bank. by dock and deep and mine and mill the boy god reckless labour still. 
rob crown and throne he weave his spell where heart blood beat or hearth smoke curl with unconsidered miracle hedge in a backward gaze world. then teach his choose bard to say. our king be with u yesterday. 
the rhyme of the three sealer. 
away by the land of the japanee where the paper lantern glow and the crew of all the ship drink in the house of blood street joe at twilight when the landward breeze bring up the harbour noise and ebb of yokohama bay swig chatter through the buoy in cisco s dewdrop din room they tell the tale anew of a hide sea and a hide fight when the baltic run from the northern light and the stralsund fight the two. 
now this be the law of the muscovite that he prof with shoot and steel when ye come by his isle in the smoky sea ye must not take the seal where the gray sea go nakedly between the weed hang shelf and the little blue fox he be breed for his skin and the seal they breed for themselves. for when the matkas seek the shore to drop their pup aland the great man seal haul out of the sea a roar band by band. and when the first september gale have slake their rut wrath the great man seal haul back to the sea and no man know their path. then dark they lie and stark they lie rookery dune and floe and the northern light come down o night to dance with the houseless snow. and god who clear the ground berg and steer the grind floe he hear the cry of the little kit fox and the wind along the snow. but since our woman must walk gay and money buy their gear the seal boat they filch that way at hazard year by year. english they be and japanee that hang on the brown bear s flank and some be scot but the bad of the lot and the bold thief be yank. 
it be the sealer northern light_ to the smoky sea she bore with a stovepipe stick from a starboard port and the russian flag at her fore. baltic_ stralsund_ and northern light oh. they be bird of a feather slip away to the smoky sea three seal thief together. and at last she come to a sandy cove and the baltic lay therein but her men be up with the herd seal to drive and club and skin. there be fifteen hundred skin abeach cool pelt and proper fur when the northern light drive into the bight and the sea mist drive with her. the baltic call her men and weigh she could not choose but run for a stovepipe see through the close mist it show like a four inch gun. and loss it be that be sad a death to lose both trip and ship and lie for a rot contraband on vladivostock slip. she turn and dive in the sea smother a a rabbit dive in the whin and the northern light send up her boat to steal the steal skin. they have not bring a load to side or slide their hatch clear when they be aware of a sloop of war ghost white and very near. her flag she show and her gun she show three of them black abeam and a funnel white with the crust salt but never a show of steam. 
there be no time to man the brake they knock the shackle free and the northern light stand out again goose wing to open sea. for life it be that be bad than death by force of russian law to work in the mine of mercury that loose the teeth in your jaw. they have not run a mile from shore they hear no shot behind when the skipper smite his hand on his thigh and throw her up in the wind. bluff raise out on a bluff say he for if my name s tom hall you must set a thief to catch a thief and a thief ha catch u all. by every butt in oregon and every spar in maine the hand that spill the wind from her sail be the hand of reuben paine. he ha rig and trigged her with paint and spar and faith he ha fake her well but i d know the stralsund_ s deckhouse yet from here to the boom o hell. oh once we ha meet at baltimore and twice on boston pier but the sick day for you reuben paine be the day that you come here the day that you come here my lad to scare u from our seal with your funnel make o your paint cloth and your gun o rotten deal. ring and blow for the baltic now and head her back to the bay and we ll come into the game again with a double deck to play. 
they ring and blow the sealer call the poach cry of the sea and they raise the baltic out of the mist and an angry ship be she. and blind they grope through the whirl white and blind to the bay again till they hear the creak of the stralsund_ s boom and the clank of her moor chain. they lay them down by bitt and boat their pistol in their belt and. will you fight for it reuben paine or will you share the pelt. 
a dog toothed laugh laugh reuben paine and bar his flenching knife. yea skin for skin and all that he hath a man will give for his life. but i ve six thousand skin below and yeddo port to see and there s never a law of god or man run north of fifty three. so go in peace to the naked sea with empty hold to fill and i ll be good to your seal this catch a many a i shall kill. 
answer the snap of a close lock and the jar of a gun butt slide but the tender fog shut fold on fold to hide the wrong they do. the weep fog roll fold on fold the wrath of man to cloak and the flame spurt pale run down the rail a the seal rifle speak. the bullet bite on bend and butt the splinter sliver free. little they trust to sparrow dust that stop the seal in his sea. the thick smoke hang and would not shift leaden it lay and blue but three be down on the baltic_ s deck and two of the stralsund_ s crew. an arm s length out and overside the bank fog hold them bind but a they hear or groan or word they fire at the sound. for one cry out on the name of god and one to have him cease and the quest volley find them both and bid them hold their peace. and one call out on a heathen joss and one on the virgin s name and the school bullet leap across and show them whence they come. and in the wait silence the rudder whine beneath and each man draw his watchful breath slow take tween the teeth trigger and ear and eye acock knit brow and hard draw lip brace his foot by chock and cleat for the roll of the ship. till they hear the cough of a wound man that fight in the fog for breath till they hear the torment of reuben paine that wail upon his death. 
the tide they ll go through fundy race but i ll go nevermore and see the hog from ebb tide mark turn scamper back to shore. no more i ll see the trawler drift below the bass rock grind or watch the tall fall steamer light tear blaze up the sound. sorrow be me in a lonely sea and a sinful fight i fall but if there s law o god or man you ll swing for it yet tom hall. tom hall stand up by the quarter rail. your word in your teeth say he. there s never a law of god or man run north of fifty three. so go in grace with him to face and an ill spend life behind and i ll be good to your widow rube a many a i shall find. 
a stralsund man shoot blind and large and a war lock finn be he and he hit tom hall with a burst ball a hand s breadth over the knee. tom hall catch hold by the top lift and sit him down with an oath you ll wait a little rube he say the devil ha call for both. the devil be drive both this tide and the kill ground be close and we ll go up to the wrath of god a the holluschickie go. o men put back your gun again and lay your rifle by we ve fight our fight and the best be down. let up and let u die. quit fire by the bow there quit. call off the baltic_ s crew. you re sure of hell a me or rube but wait till we get through. there go no word between the ship but thick and quick and loud the life blood drum on the drip deck with the fog dew from the shroud the sea pull draw them side by side gunnel to gunnel lay and they felt the sheerstrakes pound and clear but never a word be say. 
then reuben paine cry out again before his spirit pass. have i follow the sea for thirty year to die in the dark at last. curse on her work that ha nip me here with a shifty trick unkind i have get my death where i get my bread but i dare not face it blind. curse on the fog. be there never a wind of all the wind i know to clear the smother from off my chest and let me look at the blue. the good fog hear like a splitten sail to leave and right she tear and they saw the sun dog in the haze and the seal upon the shore. silver and gray run spit and bay to meet the steel back tide and pinch and white in the clear light the crew star overside. o rainbow gay the red pool lay that swill and spill and spread and gold raw gold the spend shell roll between the careless dead the dead that rock so drunkenwise to weather and to lee and they saw the work their hand have do a god have bid them see. 
and a little breeze blow over the rail that make the headsail lift but no man stand by wheel or sheet and they let the schooner drift. and the rattle rise in reuben s throat and he cast his soul with a cry and go already. tom hall he say. then it s time for me to die. his eye be heavy with great sleep and yearn for the land and he speak a a man that talk in dream his wind beneath his hand. oh there come no good o the westering wind that back against the sun. wash down the deck they re all too red and share the skin and run baltic_ stralsund_ and northern light clean share and share for all you ll find the fleet off tolstoi mees but you will not find tom hall. evil he do in shoal water and black sin on the deep but now he s sick of watch and trick and now he ll turn and sleep. he ll have no more of the crawl sea that make him suffer so but he ll lie down on the kill ground where the holluschickie go. and west you ll sail and south again beyond the sea fog s rim and tell the yoshiwara girl to burn a stick for him. and you ll not weight him by the heel and dump him overside but carry him up to the sand hollow to die a bering die and make a place for reuben paine that know the fight be fair and leave the two that do the wrong to talk it over there. 
half steam ahead by guess and lead for the sun be mostly veil through fog to fog by luck and log sail ye a bering sail. and if the light shall lift aright to give your landfall plain north and by west from zapne crest ye raise the cross twain. fair mark be they to the inner bay the reckless poacher know what time the scar see catchie lead their sleek seraglio. ever they hear the floe pack clear and the blast of the old bull whale and the deep seal roar that beat off shore above the loud gale. ever they wait the winter s hate a the thunder boorga call where northward look they to st. george and westward to st. paul s. ever they greet the hunt fleet lone keel off headland drear when the seal schooner flit that way at hazard year by year. ever in yokohama port men tell the tale anew of a hide sea and a hide fight when the baltic run from the northern light and the stralsund fight the two. 
the derelict. 
and report the derelict mary pollock still at sea. ship news. 
i be the staunch of our fleet till the sea rise beneath our foot unheralded in hatred past all measure. into his pit he stamp my crew buffet blind bind and throw bid me eyeless wait upon his pleasure. 
man make me and my will be to my maker still whom now the current con the roller steer lift forlorn to spy trail smoke along the sky fall afraid l any keel come near. 
wrench a the lip of thirst wried dry and split and burst bone bleach my deck wind scour to the grain. and jar at every roll the gear that be my soul answer the anguish of my beam complain. 
for life that cram me full gang of the pry gull that shriek and scrabble on the rive hatch. for roar that dumbed the gale my hawse pipe gutter wail sob my heart out through the uncounted watch. 
blind in the hot blue ring through all my point i swing swing and return to shift the sun anew. blind in my well know sky i hear the star go by mock the prow that cannot hold one true. 
white on my waste path wave after wave in wrath fret gainst his fellow war where to send me. fling forward heave aside witless and daze i bide the mercy of the comber that shall end me. 
north where the berg careen the spray of sea unseen smoke round my head and freeze in the fall. south where the coral breed the footle float weed fold me and foul me strake on strake upcrawling. 
i that be clean to run my race against the sun strength on the deep be bawd to all disaster whip forth by night to meet my sister s careless foot and with a kiss betray her to my master. 
man make me and my will be to my maker still to him and his our people at their pier. lift in hope to spy trail smoke along the sky fall afraid l any keel come near. 
the answer. 
a rise in tatter on the garden path cry out to god and murmur gainst his wrath because a sudden wind at twilight s hush have snap her stem alone of all the bush. and god who hear both sun dry dust and sun have pity whisper to that luckless one sister in that thou sayest we do not well what voice heardst thou when thy petal fell. and the rise answer in that evil hour a voice say `father wherefore fall the flower. for lo the very gossamer be still. and a voice answer `son by allah s will. 
then softly a a rain mist on the sward come to the rise the answer of the lord. sister before we smite the dark in twain ere yet the star saw one another plain time tide and space we bind unto the task that thou shouldst fall and such an one should ask. whereat the wither flower all content die a they die whose day be innocent. while he who question why the flower fell catch hold of god and save his soul from hell. 
the song of the banjo. 
you couldn t pack a broadwood half a mile you mustn t leave a fiddle in the damp you couldn t raft an organ up the nile and play it in an equatorial swamp. i travel with the cook pot and pail i m sandwich tween the coffee and the pork and when the dusty column check and tail you should hear me spur the rear guard to a walk. with my _pilly willy winky winky popp. [oh it s any tune that come into my head. ] so i keep em move forward till they drop. so i play em up to water and to bed. 
in the silence of the camp before the fight when it s good to make your will and say your prayer you can hear my strumpty tumpty overnight explain ten to one be always fair. i m the prophet of the utterly absurd of the patently impossible and vain and when the thing that couldn t ha occur give me time to change my leg and go again. with my _tumpa tumpa tumpa tum pa tump. in the desert where the dung feed camp smoke curl there be never voice before u till i lead our lonely chorus i the war drum of the white man round the world. 
by the bitter road the young son must tread ere he win to hearth and saddle of his own mid the riot of the shearer at the shed in the silence of the herder s hut alone in the twilight on a bucket upside down hear me babble what the weak win t confess i be memory and torment i be town. i be all that ever go with even dress. with my _tunk a tunka tunka tunka tunk. [so the light the london light grow near and plain. ] so i rowel em afresh towards the devil and the flesh till i bring my break ranker home again. 
in desire of many marvel over sea where the new raise tropic city sweat and roar i have sail with young ulysses from the quay till the anchor rumble down on strange shore. he be blood to the open and the sky he be take in a snare that shall not fail he shall hear me sing strongly till he die like the shout of a backstay in a gale. with my _hya. heeya. heeya. hullah. haul. [o the green that thunder aft along the deck. ] be you sick o town and men. you must sign and sail again for it s johnny bowleg pack your kit and trek. 
through the gorge that give the star at noon day clear up the pas that pack the scud beneath our wheel round the bluff that sink her thousand fathom sheer down the valley with our gutter brake asqueal. where the trestle groan and quiver in the snow where the many shedded level loop and twine so i lead my reckless child from below till we sing the song of roland to the pine. with my _tinka tinka tinka tinka tink. [and the axe ha clear the mountain croup and crest. ] so we ride the iron stallion down to drink through the canyon to the water of the west. 
and the tune that mean so much to you alone common tune that make you choke and blow your nose vulgar tune that bring the laugh that bring the groan i can rip your very heartstrings out with those. with the feast and the folly and the fun and the lie and the lust and the drink and the merry play that drop you when you re do to the thought that burn like iron if you think. with my _plunka lunka lunka lunka lunk. here s a trifle on account of pleasure past ere the wit that make you win give you eye to see your sin and the heavy repentance at the last. 
let the organ moan her sorrow to the roof i have tell the naked star the grief of man. let the trumpet snare the foeman to the proof i have know defeat and mock it a we run. my bray ye may not alter nor mistake when i stand to jeer the fat soul of thing but the song of lose endeavour that i make be it hide in the twang of the string. with my _ta ra rara rara ra ra rrrp. [is it naught to you that hear and pas me by. ] but the word the word be mine when the order move the line and the lean lock rank go roar down to die. 
of the drive dust of speech i make a flame and a scourge of break withe that men let fall. for the word that have no honour till i come lo. i raise them into honour over all. by the wisdom of the century i speak to the tune of yestermorn i set the truth i the joy of life unquestioned i the greek i the everlasting wonder song of youth. with my _tinka tinka tinka tinka tink. [what d ye lack my noble master. what d ye lack. ] so i draw the world together link by link. yea from delos up to limerick and back. 
the liner she s a lady. 
the liner she s a lady an she never look nor eeds the man o war s er usband an e give er all she need. but oh the little cargo boat that sail the wet sea roun they re just the same a you an me a plyin up an down. 
plyin up an down jenny angin round the yard all the way by fratton tram down to portsmouth ard. anythin for business an we re growin old plyin up an down jenny waitin in the cold. 
the liner she s a lady by the paint upon er face an if she meet an accident they count it sore disgrace. the man o war s er usband and e s always andy by but oh the little cargo boat. they ve get to load or die. 
the liner she s a lady and er route be cut an dry. the man o war s er usband an e always keep beside. but oh the little cargo boat that aven t any man they ve get to do their business first and make the most they can. 
the liner she s a lady and if a war should come the man o war s er usband and e d bid er stay at home. but oh the little cargo boat that fill with every tide. e d ave to up an fight for them for they be england s pride. 
the liner she s a lady but if she wasn t make there still would be the cargo boat for ome an foreign trade. the man o war s er usband but if we wasn t ere e wouldn t have to fight at all for ome an friend so dear. 
ome an friend so dear jenny angin round the yard all the way by fratton tram down to portsmouth ard. anythin for business an we re growin old ome an friend so dear jenny waitin in the cold. 
mulholland s contract. 
the fear be on the cattle for the gale be on the sea an the pen break up on the low deck an let the creature free an the light go out on the low deck an no one near but me. 
i have be singin to them to keep em quiet there for the low deck be the dangerous requirin constant care an give to me a the strong man though use to drink and swear. 
i see my chance be certain of bein horn or tread for the low deck be pack with steer thick n pea in a pod an more pen break at every roll so i make a contract with god. 
an by the term of the contract a i have read the same if he get me to port alive i would exalt his name an praise his holy majesty till further order come. 
he save me from the cattle an he save me from the sea for they find me tween two drownded one where the roll have land me an a four inch crack on top of my head a crazy a could be. 
but that be do by a stanchion an not by a bullock at all an i lay still for seven week convalessing of the fall an readin the shiny scripture text in the seaman s hospital. 
an i speak to god of our contract an he say to my prayer. i never put on my minister no more than they can bear. so back you go to the cattle boat an preach my gospel there. 
for human life be chancy at any kind of trade but most of all a well you know when the steer be mad afraid. so you go back to the cattle boat an preach em a i ve say. 
they must quit drinkin an swearin they mustn t knife on a blow they must quit gamblin their wage and you must preach it so. for now those boat be more like hell than anything else i know. 
i didn t want to do it for i know what i should get an i want to preach religion handsome an out of the wet but the word of the lord be lie on me an i do what i be set. 
i have be smite an bruis]\ed a warn would be the case an turn my cheek to the smiter exactly a scripture say. but follow that i knock him down an lead him up to grace. 
an we have preach on sunday whenever the sea be calm an i use no knife or pistol an i never take no harm for the lord abideth back of me to guide my fight arm. 
an i sign for four pound ten a month and save the money clear an i be in charge of the low deck an i never lose a steer. an i believe in almighty god an preach his gospel here. 
the skipper say i m crazy but i can prove em wrong for i be in charge of the low deck with all that doth belong which they would not give to a lunatic and the competition so strong. 
anchor song. 
heh. walk her round. heave ah heave her short again. over snatch her over there and hold her on the pawl. loose all sail and brace your yard back and full ready jib to pay her off and heave short all. well ah fare you well. we can stay no more with you my love down set down your liquor and your girl from off your knee. for the wind ha come to say. you must take me while you may if you d go to mother carey. walk her down to mother carey. oh we re bind to mother carey where she feed her chick at sea. 
heh. walk her round. break ah break it out o that. break our starboard bower out apeak awash and clear. port port she cast with the harbour mud beneath her foot and that s the last o bottom we shall see this year. well ah fare you well for we ve get to take her out again take her out in ballast rid light and cargo free. and it s time to clear and quit when the hawser grip the bitt so we ll pay you with the foresheet and a promise from the sea. 
heh. tally on. aft and walk away with her. handsome to the cathead now. o tally on the fall. stop seize and fish and easy on the davit guy. up well up the fluke of her and inboard haul. well ah fare you well for the channel wind s take hold of u choke down our voice a we snatch the gasket free. and it s blow up for night and she s drop light on light and she s snort under bonnet for a breath of open sea. 
wheel full and by. but she ll smell her road alone to night. sick she be and harbour sick o sick to clear the land. roll down to brest with the old red ensign over u carry on and thrash her out with all she ll stand. well ah fare you well and it s ushant slam the door on u whirl like a windmill through the dirty scud to lee. till the last last flicker go from the tumble water row and we re off to mother carey. walk her down to mother carey. oh we re bind for mother carey where she feed her chick at sea. 
the lose legion. 
there s a legion that never be list that carry no colour or crest but split in a thousand detachment be break the road for the rest. our father they leave u their bless they teach u and groom u and cram. but we ve shake the club and the mess to go and find out and be damn. dear boy. to go and get shoot and be damn. 
so some of u chivy the slaver and some of u cherish the black and some of u hunt on the oil coast and some on the wallaby track. and some of u drift to sarawak and some of u drift up the fly and some share our tucker with tiger and some with the gentle masai. dear boy. take tea with the giddy masai. 
we ve paint the island vermilion we ve pearl on half share in the bay we ve shout on seven ounce nugget we ve starve on a seedeeboy s pay. we ve laugh at the world a we find it it woman and city and men from sayyid burgash in a tantrum to the smoke redden eye of loben. dear boy. we ve a little account with loben. 
the end o the earth be our portion the ocean at large be our share. there be never a skirmish to windward but the leaderless legion be there. yes somehow and somewhere and always we be first when the trouble begin from a lottery row in manila to an i. d. b. race on the pan. dear boy. with the mount police on the pan. 
we preach in advance of the army we skirmish ahead of the church with never a gunboat to help u when we re scupper and leave in the lurch. but we know a the cartridge finish and we re file on our last little shelf that the legion that never be list will send u a good a ourselves. good men. five hundred a good a ourselves. 
then a health. we must drink it in whisper. to our wholly unauthorised horde to the line of our dusty foreloopers the gentleman rover abroad yes a health to ourselves ere we scatter for the steamer win t wait for the train and the legion that never be list go back into quarter again. regard. go back under canvas again. hurrah. the swag and the billy again. here s how. the trail and the packhorse again. salue. the trek and the laager again. 
the sea wife. 
there dwell a wife by the northern gate and a wealthy wife be she. she breed a breed o rovin men and cast them over sea. 
and some be drown in deep water and some in sight o shore and word go back to the weary wife and ever she send more. 
for since that wife have gate or gear or hearth or garth or bield she will her son to the white harvest and that be a bitter yield. 
she will her son to the wet plough to ride the horse of tree and syne her son come back again far spend from out the sea. 
the good wife s son come home again with little into their hand but the lore of men that ha deal with men in the new and naked land. 
but the faith of men that ha brothered men by more than easy breath and the eye o men that ha read wi men in the open book of death. 
rich be they rich in wonder see but poor in the good o men. so what they ha get by the skin o their teeth they sell for their teeth again. 
for whether they lose to the naked life or win to their heart desire they tell it all to the weary wife that nod beside the fire. 
her hearth be wide to every wind that make the white ash spin. and tide and tide and tween the tide her son go out and in. 
out with great mirth that do desire hazard of trackless way in with content to wait their watch and warm before the blaze. 
and some return by fail light and some in wake dream for she hear the heel of the drip ghost that ride the rough roof beam. 
home they come home from all the port the live and the dead. the good wife s son come home again for her bless on their head. 
hymn before action. 
the earth be full of anger the sea be dark with wrath the nation in their harness go up against our path. ere yet we loose the legion ere yet we draw the blade jehovah of the thunder lord god of battle aid. 
high lust and froward bear proud heart rebellious brow deaf ear and soul uncaring we seek thy mercy now. the sinner that forswear thee the fool that pass thee by our time be know before thee lord grant u strength to die. 
for those who kneel beside u at altar not thine own who lack the light that guide u lord let their faith atone. if wrong we do to call them by honour bind they come. let not thy wrath befall them but deal to u the blame. 
from panic pride and terror revenge that know no rein light haste and lawless error protect u yet again. cloak thou our undeserving make firm the shudder breath in silence and unswerving to taste thy less death. 
ah mary pierce with sorrow remember reach and save the soul that come to morrow before the god that give. since each be bear of woman for each at utter need true comrade and true foeman madonna intercede. 
e en now their vanguard gather e en now we face the fray a thou didst help our father help thou our host to day. fulfil of sign and wonder in life in death make clear jehovah of the thunder lord god of battle hear. 
to the true romance. 
thy face be far from this our war our call and counter cry i shall not find thee quick and kind nor know thee till i die enough for me in dream to see and touch thy garment hem. thy foot have tread so near to god i may not follow them. 
through wantonness if men profess they weary of thy part e en let them die at blasphemy and perish with their art. but we that love but we that prove thine excellence august while we adore discover more thee perfect wise and just. 
since speak word man s spirit stir beyond his belly need what be be thine of fair design in think and craft and deed. each stroke aright of toil and fight that be and that shall be and hope too high wherefore we die ha birth and worth in thee. 
who hold by thee hath heaven in fee to gild his dross thereby and knowledge sure that he endure a child until he die for to make plain that man s disdain be but new beauty s birth for to posse in loneliness the joy of all the earth. 
a thou didst teach all lover speech and life all mystery so shalt thou rule by every school till love and long die who wast or yet the light be set a whisper in the void who shalt be sing through planet young when this be clean destroy. 
beyond the bound our star round across the press dark the child wise of out sky look hitherward and mark a light that shift a glare that drift rekindle thus and thus not all forlorn for thou hast bear strange tale to them of u. 
time hath no tide but must abide the servant of thy will. tide hath no time for to thy rhyme the range star stand still regent of sphere that lock our fear our hope invisible oh twas certes at thy decree we fashion heaven and hell. 
pure wisdom hath no certain path that lack thy morning eyne and captain bold by thee control most like to god design. thou art the voice to kingly boy to lift them through the fight and comfortress of unsuccess to give the dead good night. 
a veil to draw twixt god his law and man s infirmity a shadow kind to dumb and blind the shamble where we die. a rule to trick th arithmetic too base of league odds the spur of trust the curb of lust thou handmaid of the god. 
o charity all patiently abide wrack and scaith. o faith that meet ten thousand cheat yet drop no jot of faith. devil and brute thou dost transmute to high lordly show who art in sooth that lovely truth the careless angel know. 
thy face be far from this our war our call and counter cry i may not find thee quick and kind nor know thee till i die. 
yet may i look with heart unshook on blow bring home or miss yet may i hear with equal ear the clarion down the list. yet set my lance above mischance and ride the barriere oh hit or miss how little ti my lady be not there. 
the flower. 
to our private taste there be always something a little exotic almost artificial in song which under an english aspect and dress be yet so manifestly the product of other sky. they affect u like translation. the very fauna and flora be alien remote. the dog s tooth violet be but an ill substitute for the rathe primrose nor can we ever believe that the wood robin sing a sweetly in april a the english thrush. the athenaeum. 
buy my english posy. kent and surrey may violet of the undercliff wet with channel spray. cowslip from a devon combe midland furze afire buy my english posy and i ll sell your heart s desire. 
buy my english posy. you that scorn the may win t you greet a friend from home half the world away. green against the draggle drift faint and frail and first buy my northern blood root and i ll know where you be nurse. robin down the log road whistle come to me. spring ha find the maple grove the sap be run free. all the wind of canada call the plough rain. take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s to match your need buy a tuft of royal heath buy a bunch of weed white a sand of muysenberg spin before the gale buy my heath and lily and i ll tell you whence you hail. under hot constantia broad the vineyard lie throne and thorned the ache berg prop the speckle sky slow below the wynberg fir trail the tilt wain take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. you that will not turn buy my hot wood clematis buy a frond o fern gather where the erskine leap down the road to lorne buy my christmas creeper and i ll say where you be bear. west away from melbourne dust holiday begin they that mock at paradise woo at cora lynn through the great south otway gum sing the great south main take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s your choice unsold. buy a blood red myrtle bloom buy the kowhai s gold fling for gift on taupo s face sign that spring be come buy my cling myrtle and i ll give you back your home. broom behind the windy town. pollen o the pine bell bird in the leafy deep where the ratas twine fern above the saddle bow flax upon the plain take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. ye that have your own buy them for a brother s sake overseas alone. weed ye trample underfoot flood his heart abrim bird ye never heed oh she call his dead to him. far and far our home be set round the seven sea. woe for u if we forget we that hold by these. unto each his mother beach bloom and bird and land master of the seven sea oh love and understand. 
the last rhyme of true thomas. 
the king ha call for priest and cup the king ha take spur and blade to dub true thomas a belt knight and all for the sake o the song he make. 
they have seek him high they have seek him low they have seek him over down and lea. they have find him by the milk white thorn that guard the gate o faerie. 
twas bend beneath and blue above their eye be hold that they might not see the kine that graze beneath the know oh they be the queen o faerie. 
now cease your song the king he say oh cease your song and get you dight to vow your vow and watch your arm for i will dub you a belt knight. 
for i will give you a horse o pride wi blazon and spur and page and squire. wi keep and tail and seizin and law and land to hold at your desire. 
true thomas smile above his harp and turn his face to the naked sky where blow before the wastrel wind the thistle down she float by. 
i ha vow my vow in another place and bitter oath it be on me i ha watch my arm the lee long night where five score fight men would flee. 
my lance be tip o the hammer flame my shield be beat o the moonlight cold. and i win my spur in the middle world a thousand fathom beneath the mould. 
and what should i make wi a horse o pride and what should i make wi a sword so brown but spill the ring o the gentle folk and flyte my kin in the fairy town. 
and what should i make wi blazon and belt wi keep and tail and seizin and fee and what should i do wi page and squire that be a king in my own countrie. 
for i send east and i send west and i send far a my will may flee by dawn and dusk and the drink rain and syne my sending return to me. 
they come wi news of the groanin earth they come wi news o the roarin sea wi word of spirit and ghost and flesh and man that s mazed among the three. 
the king he bite his nether lip and smite his hand upon his knee. by the faith o my soul true thomas he say ye waste no wit in courtesie. 
a i desire unto my pride can i make earl by three and three to run before and ride behind and serve the son o my body. 
and what care i for your row foot earl or all the son o your body. before they win to the pride o name i trow they all ask leave o me. 
for i make honour wi muckle mouth a i make shame wi mincin foot to sing wi the priest at the market cross or run wi the dog in the naked street. 
and some they give me the good red gold and some they give me the white money and some they give me a clout o meal for they be people o low degree. 
and the song i sing for the count gold the same i sing for the white money but best i sing for the clout o meal that simple people give me. 
the king cast down a silver groat a silver groat o scot money if i come wi a poor man s dole he say true thomas will ye harp to me. 
whenas i harp to the child small they press me close on either hand. and who be you true thomas say that you should ride while they must stand. 
light down light down from your horse o pride i trow ye talk too loud and hie and i will make you a triple word and syne if ye dare ye shall noble me. 
he ha light down from his horse o pride and set his back against the stone. now guard you well true thomas say ere i rax your heart from your breast bone. 
true thomas play upon his harp the fairy harp that couldna lee and the first least word the proud king hear it harpit the salt tear out o his ee. 
oh i see the love that i lose long syne i touch the hope that i may not see and all that i do o hide shame like little snake they hiss at me. 
the sun be lose at noon at noon. the dread o doom ha grippit me. true thomas hide me under your cloak god wot i m little fit to dee. 
twas bend beneath and blue above twas open field and run flood where hot on heath and dike and wall the high sun warm the adder s brood. 
lie down lie down true thomas say. the god shall judge when all be do. but i will bring you a good word and lift the cloud that i lay on. 
true thomas play upon his harp that birl and brattle to his hand and the next least word true thomas make it garred the king take horse and brand. 
oh i hear the tread o the fight men i see the sun on splent and spear. i mark the arrow outen the fern that fly so low and sing so clear. 
advance my standard to that war and bid my good knight prick and ride. the gled shall watch a fierce a fight a e er be fight on the border side. 
twas bend beneath and blue above twas nod grass and naked sky where ring up the wastrel wind the eyas stoop upon the pie. 
true thomas sigh above his harp and turn the song on the midmost string. and the last least word true thomas make he harpit his dead youth back to the king. 
now i be prince and i do well to love my love withouten fear. to walk wi man in fellowship and breathe my horse behind the deer. 
my hound they bay unto the death the buck ha couch beyond the burn my love she wait at her window to wash my hand when i return. 
for that i live be i content. oh. i have see my true love s eye. to stand wi adam in eden glade and run in the wood o paradise. 
twas naked sky and nod grass twas run flood and wastrel wind where check against the open pas the red deer bell to call the hind. 
true thomas lay his harp away and louted low at the saddle side. he ha take stirrup and hauden rein and set the king on his horse o pride. 
sleep ye or wake true thomas say that sit so still that muse so long. sleep ye or wake. till the latter sleep i trow ye ll not forget my song. 
i ha harpit a shadow out o the sun to stand before your face and cry. i ha arm the earth beneath your heel and over your head i ha dusk the sky. 
i ha harpit ye up to the throne o god i ha harpit your midmost soul in three. i ha harpit ye down to the hinge o hell and ye would make a knight o me. 
in the neolithic age. 
in the neolithic age savage warfare do i wage for food and fame and woolly horse pelt. i be singer to my clan in that dim red dawn of man and i sing of all we fight and fear and felt. 
yea i sing a now i sing when the prehistoric spring make the pile biscayan ice pack split and shove. and the troll and gnome and dwerg and the god of cliff and berg be about me and beneath me and above. 
but a rival of solutr]/e tell the tribe my style be outr]/e neath a tomahawk of diorite he fell. and i leave my view on art barb and tanged below the heart of a mammothistic etcher at grenelle. 
then i strip them scalp from skull and my hunt dog feed full and their teeth i thread neatly on a thong. and i wipe my mouth and say it be well that they be dead for i know my work be right and theirs be wrong. 
but my totem saw the shame. from his ridgepole shrine he come and he tell me in a vision of the night. there be nine and sixty way of construct tribal lay and every single one of them be right. 

then the silence close upon me till they put new clothe on me of white weak flesh and bone more frail. and i step beneath time s finger once again a tribal singer [and a minor poet certify by tr ll]. 
still they skirmish to and fro men my messmate on the snow when we head off the aurochs turn for turn. when the rich allobrogenses never keep amanuensis and our only plot be pile in lake at berne. 
still a culture christian age see u scuffle squeak and rage still we pinch and slap and jabber scratch and dirk. still we let our business slide a we drop the half dress hide to show a fellow savage how to work. 
still the world be wondrous large seven sea from marge to marge and it hold a vast of various kind of man. and the wild dream of kew be the fact of khatmandhu and the crime of clapham chaste in martaban. 
here s my wisdom for your use a i learn it when the moose and the reindeer roar where paris roar to night. there be nine and sixty way of construct tribal lay and every single one of them be right. 
the story of ung. 
once on a glitter ice field age and age ago ung a maker of picture fashion an image of snow. fashion the form of a tribesman gaily he whistle and sing work the snow with his finger. read ye the story of ung. 
please be his tribe with that image come in their hundred to scan handle it smelt it and grunt. verily this be a man. thus do we carry our lance thus be a war belt sling. lo. it be even a we be. glory and honour to ung. 
late he picture an aurochs late he picture a bear picture the sabre tooth tiger drag a man to his lair picture the mountainous mammoth hairy abhorrent alone out of the love that he bore them scribe them clearly on bone. 
swift come the tribe to behold them peer and push and still men of the berg batter beach men of the boulder hatch hill hunter and fisher and trapper presently whisper low. yea they be like and it may be but how doe the picture man know. 
ung hath he sleep with the aurochs watch where the mastodon roam. speak on the ice with the bow head follow the sabre tooth home. nay. these be toy of his fancy. if he have cheat u so how be there truth in his image the man that he fashion of snow. 
wroth be that maker of picture hotly he answer the call. hunter and fisher and trapper child and fool be ye all. look at the beast when ye hunt them. swift from the tumult he break run to the cave of his father and tell him the shame that they speak. 
and the father of ung give answer that be old and wise in the craft maker of picture aforetime he lean on his lance and laugh. if they could see a thou seest they would do what thou hast do and each man would make him a picture and what would become of my son. 
there would be no pelt of the reindeer fling down at thy cave for a gift nor dole of the oily timber that come on the baltic drift. no store of well drill needle nor ouches of amber pale. no new cut tongue of the bison nor meat of the strand whale. 
_thou hast not toil at the fish when the sodden trammel freeze nor work the war boat outward through the rush of the rock stake sea yet they bring thee fish and plunder full meal and an easy bed and all for the sake of thy picture. and ung hold down his head. 
_thou hast not stand to the aurochs when the red snow reek of the fight. men have no time at the houghing to count his curl aright. and the heart of the hairy mammoth thou sayest they do not see yet they save it whole from the beach and broil the best for thee. 
and now do they press to thy picture with open mouth and eye and a little gift in the doorway and the praise no gift can buy. but sure they have doubt thy picture and that be a grievous stain son that can see so clearly return them their gift again. 
and ung look down at his deerskin their broad shell tasselled band and ung draw downward his mitten and look at his naked hand. and he gloved himself and depart and he hear his father behind. son that can see so clearly rejoice that thy tribe be blind. 
straight on the glitter ice field by the cave of the lose dordogne ung a maker of picture fell to his scribe on bone even to mammoth edition. gaily he whistle and sing bless his tribe for their blindness. heed ye the story of ung. 
the three decker. 
_the three volume novel be extinct. 
full thirty foot she tower from waterline to rail. it cost a watch to steer her and a week to shorten sail. but spite all modern notion i find her first and best the only certain packet for the island of the bless. 
fair hold the breeze behind u twas warm with lover prayer. we d steal will for ballast and a crew of miss heir. they ship a able bastard till the wicked nurse confess and they work the old three decker to the island of the bless. 
by way no gaze could follow a course unspoiled of cook per fancy fleet in man our title berth we take with maid of matchless beauty and parentage unguessed and a church of england parson for the island of the bless. 
we ask no social question we pump no hide shame we never talk obstetrics when the little strange come. we leave the lord in heaven we leave the fiend in hell. we weren t exactly yussufs but zuleika didn t tell. 
no moral doubt assail u so when the port we near the villain have his flog at the gangway and we cheer. twas fiddle in the forc s le twas garland on the mast for every one get marry and i go ashore at last. 
i leave em all in couple a kiss on the deck. i leave the lover love and the parent sign cheque. in endless english comfort by county folk caress i leave the old three decker at the island of the bless. 
that route be bar to steamer. you ll never lift again our purple paint headland or the lordly keep of spain. they re just beyond your skyline howe er so far you cruise in a ram you damn you liner with a brace of buck screw. 
swing round your ache search light twill show no haven s peace. ay blow your shriek siren to the deaf gray beard sea. boom out the drip oil bag to skin the deep s unrest and you aren t one knot the near to the island of the bless. 
but when you re thresh cripple with break bridge and rail at a drogue of dead conviction to hold you head to gale calm a the fly dutchman from truck to taffrail dress you ll see the old three decker for the island of the bless. 
you ll see her tiering canvas in sheet silver spread. you ll hear the long draw thunder neath her leap figure head. while far so far above you her tall poop lantern shine unvexed by wind or weather like the candle round a shrine. 
hull down hull down and under she dwindle to a speck with noise of pleasant music and dance on her deck. all s well all s well aboard her she s leave you far behind with a scent of old world rose through the fog that tie you blind. 
her crew be babe or madman. her port be all to make. you re man by truth and science and you steam for steam s sake. well tinker up your engine you know your business best she_ s take tire people to the island of the bless. 
an american. 
the american spirit speak. 
if the lead striker call it a strike or the paper call it a war they know not much what i be like nor what he be my avatar. 
through many road by me possess he shamble forth in cosmic guise. he be the jester and the jest and he the text himself apply. 
the celt be in his heart and hand the gaul be in his brain and nerve. where cosmopolitanly plan he guard the redskin s dry reserve. 
his easy unswept hearth he lend from labrador to guadeloupe. till elbow out by sloven friend he camp at sufferance on the stoop. 
calm eye he scoff at sword and crown or panic blind stab and slay. blatant he bid the world bow down or cringe beg a crust of praise. 
or sombre drink at mine and mart he dub his dreary brother king. his hand be black with blood his heart leap a a babe s at little thing. 
but through the shift of mood and mood mine ancient humour save him whole the cynic devil in his blood that bid him mock his hurry soul. 
that bid him flout the law he make that bid him make the law he flout till daze by many doubt he wake the drum gun that have no doubt. 
that check him foolish hot and fond that chuckle through his deep ire that gild the slough of his despond but dim the goal of his desire. 
inopportune shrill accent the acrid asiatic mirth that leaf him careless mid his dead the scandal of the elder earth. 
how shall he clear himself how reach your bar or weigh defence prefer. a brother hedge with alien speech and lack all interpreter. 
which knowledge vex him a space. but while reproof around him ring he turn a keen untroubled face home to the instant need of thing. 
enslave illogical elate he greet th embarrass god nor fear to shake the iron hand of fate or match with destiny for beer. 
lo imperturbable he rule unkempt disreputable vast and in the teeth of all the school i i shall save him at the last. 
the mary gloster. 
i ve pay for your sick fancy. i ve humour your cracked whim dick it s your daddy die. you ve get to listen to him. good for a fortnight be i. the doctor tell you. he lie. i shall go under by morning and put that nurse outside. never see death yet dickie. well now be your time to learn and you ll wish you hold my record before it come to your turn. not count the line and the foundry the yard and the village too i ve make myself and a million. but i m damn if i make you. master at two and twenty and marry at twenty three ten thousand men on the pay roll and forty freighter at sea. fifty year between em and every year of it fight and now i m sir anthony gloster die a baronite. for i lunch with his royal ighness what be it the paper a have. not least of our merchant prince. dickie that s me your dad. i didn t begin with asking. i take my job and i stick. and i take the chance they wouldn t an now they re call it luck. lord what boat i ve handle rotten and leaky and old. run em or open the bilge cock precisely a i be tell. grub that ud bind you crazy and crew that ud turn you grey and a big fat lump of insurance to cover the risk on the way. the others they dursn t do it. they say they value their life. they ve serve me since a skipper. i go and i take my wife. over the world i drive em marry at twenty three and your mother save the money and make a man of me. i be content to be master but she say there be good behind. she take the chance i wouldn t and i follow your mother blind. she egg me to borrow the money an she help me to clear the loan when we buy half share in a cheap un and hoist a flag of our own. patch and coal on credit and live the lord know how we start the red ox freighter we ve eight and thirty now. and those be the day of clipper and the freight be clipper freight and we know we be make our fortune but she die in macassar strait by the little paternoster a you come to the union bank and we drop her in fourteen fathom. i prick it off where she sink. owner we be full owner and the boat be christen for her and she die in the mary gloster. my heart how young we be. so i go on a spree round java and well nigh run her ashore but your mother come and warn me and i wouldn t liquor no more. strict i stick to my business afraid to stop or i d think save the money. she warn me. and let the other men drink. and i meet m cullough in london. i d turn five undred then. and tween u we start the foundry three forge and twenty men. cheap repair for the cheap un. it pay and the business grow for i buy me a steam lathe patent and that be a gold mine too. cheap to build em than buy em i say but m cullough he shy and we waste a year in talk before we move to the clyde. and the line be all begin and we all of u start fair build our engine like house and stay the boiler square. but m cullough e want cabin with marble and maple and all and brussels an utrecht velvet and bath and a social hall and pipe for closet all over and cut the frame too light but m cullough he die in the sixty and well i m die to night. i know i know what be come when we bid on the byfleet_ s keel they piddle and piffle with iron. i d give my order for steel. steel and the first expansion. it pay i tell you it pay when we come with our nine knot freighter and collar the long run trade. and they ask me how i do it and i give em the scripture text you keep your light so shin a little in front o the next. they copy all they could follow but they couldn t copy my mind and i leave em sweat and steal a year and a half behind. then come the armour contract but that be m cullough s side. he be always best in the foundry but good perhaps he die. i go through his private paper. the note be plain than print. and i m no fool to finish if a man ll give me a hint. i remember his widow be angry. so i saw what the drawing mean and i start the six inch roller and it pay me sixty per cent sixty per cent with failure and more than twice we could do and a quarter million to credit and i save it all for you. i think it doesn t matter you seem to favour your ma but you re near forty than thirty and i know the kind you be. harrer an trinity college. i ought to ha send you to sea but i stand you an education an what have you do for me. the thing i know be proper you wouldn t thank me to give and the thing i know be rotten you say be the way to live. for you muddle with book and picture an china an etchin s an fan and your room at college be beastly more like a whore s than a man s till you marry that thin flank woman a white and a stale a a bone an she give you your social nonsense. but where s that kid o your own. i ve see your carriage block the half o the cromwell road but never the doctor s brougham to help the missus unload. so there isn t even a grandchild an the gloster family s do. not like your mother she isn t. she carry her freight each run. but they die the pore little beggar. at sea she have em they die. only you an you stand it. you haven t stand much beside. weak a liar and idle and mean a a collier s whelp nose for scrap in the galley. no help my son be no help. so he get three undred thousand in trust and the interest pay. i wouldn t give it you dickie you see i make it in trade. you re save from soil your finger and if you have no child it all come back to the business. gad win t your wife be wild. call and call in her carriage her andkerchief up to er eye. daddy. dear daddy s dyin. and do her best to cry. grateful. oh yes i m grateful but keep her away from here. your mother ud never ha stand er and anyhow woman be queer. there s woman will say i ve marry a second time. not quite. but give pore aggie a hundred and tell her your lawyer ll fight. she be the best o the boil you ll meet her before it end. i m in for a row with the mother i ll leave you settle my friend. for a man he must go with a woman which woman don t understand or the sort that say they can see it they aren t the marry brand. but i want to speak o your mother that s lady gloster still i m go to up and see her without it s hurt the will. here. take your hand off the bell pull. five thousand s wait for you if you ll only listen a minute and do a i bid you do. they ll try to prove me crazy and if you bungle they can. and i ve only you to trust to. o god why ain t he a man. there s some waste money on marble the same a m cullough try marble and mausoleum but i call that sinful pride. there s some ship body for burial we ve carry em solder and pack. down in their will they write it and nobody call them crack. but me i ve too much money and people might. all my fault. it come o hop for grandson and buy that wokin vault. i m sick o the ole dam business. i m go back where i come. dick you re the son o my body and you ll take charge o the same. i want to lie by your mother ten thousand mile away and they ll want to send me to woking. and that s where you ll earn your pay. i ve think it out on the quiet the same a it ought to be do quiet and decent and proper an here s your order my son. you know the line. you don t though. you write to the board and tell your father s death ha upset you an you re goin to cruise for a spell an you d like the mary gloster i ve hold her ready for this they ll put her in work order and you ll take her out a she be. yes it be money idle when i patch her and put her aside. thank god i can pay for my fancy. the boat where your mother die by the little paternoster a you come to the union bank we drop her i think i tell you and i prick it off where she sink [ tiny she look on the grate that oily treacly sea ] hundred and eighteen east remember and south just three. easy bearing to carry three south three to the dot. but i give m andrew a copy in case of die or not. and so you ll write to m andrew he s chief of the maori line. they ll give him leave if you ask em and say it s business o mine. i build three boat for the maori an very well please they be an i ve know mac since the fifty and mac know me and her. after the first stroke warn me i send him the money to keep against the time you d claim it committin your dad to the deep. for you be the son o my body and mac be my old friend i ve never ask im to dinner but he ll see it out to the end. stiff neck glasgow beggar i ve hear he s pray for my soul but he couldn t lie if you pay him and he d starve before he steal. he ll take the mary in ballast you ll find her a lively ship. and you ll take sir anthony gloster that go on be wed trip lash in our old deck cabin with all three port hole wide the kick o the screw beneath him and the round blue sea outside. sir anthony gloster s carriage our ouse flag flyin free ten thousand men on the pay roll and forty freighter at sea. he make himself and a million but this world be a fleetin show and he ll go to the wife of be bosom the same a he ought to go by the heel of the paternoster there isn t a chance to mistake and mac ll pay you the money a soon a the bubble break. five thousand for six week cruise the staunch freighter afloat and mac he ll give you your bonus the minute i m out o the boat. he ll take you round to macassar and you ll come back alone. he know what i want o the mary. i ll do what i please with my own. your mother ud call it wasteful but i ve seven and thirty more. i ll come in my private carriage and bid it wait at the door. for my son e be never a credit. e muddle with book and art and e live on sir anthony s money and e break sir anthony s heart. there isn t even a grandchild and the gloster family s do the only one you leave me o mother the only one. harrer and trinity college me slavin early an late an he think i m die crazy and you re in macassar strait. flesh o my flesh my dearie for ever an ever amen that first stroke come for a warn. i ought to ha go to you then but cheap repair for a cheap un the doctor say i d do. mary why didn t you warn me. i ve allus heed to you excep i know about woman. but you be a spirit now. an wife they be only woman and i be a man. that s how. an a man e must go with a woman a you could not understand. but i never talk em secret. i pay em out o hand. thank gawd i can pay for my fancy. now what s five thousand to me for a berth off the paternoster in the haven where i would be. i believe in the resurrection if i read my bible plain but i wouldn t trust em at wokin. we re safe at sea again. for the heart it shall go with the treasure go down to the sea in ship. i m sick of the hire woman i ll kiss my girl on her lip. i ll be content with my fountain i ll drink from my own well and the wife of my youth shall charm me an the rest can go to hell. dickie he will that s certain. i ll lie in our standin bed an mac ll take her in ballast an she trim best by the head. down by the head an sinkin her fire be draw and cold and the water s splashin hollow on the skin of the empty hold churn an choke and chuckle quiet and scummy and dark full to her low hatch and risin steady. hark. that be the after bulkhead. she s flood from stem to stern. never see death yet dickie. well now be your time to learn. 
sestina of the tramp royal. 
speakin in general i ave try em all the appy road that take you o er the world. speakin in general i ave find them good for such a cannot use one bed too long but must get ence the same a i ave do an go observin matter till they die. 
what do it matter where or ow we die so long a we ve our ealth to watch it all the different way that different thing be do an men an woman lovin in this world takin our chance a they come along an when they ain t pretendin they be good. 
in cash or credit no it aren t no good. you ave to ave the abit or you d die unless you live your life but one day long nor didn t prophesy nor fret at all but draw your tucker some ow from the world an never bother what you might ha do. 
but gawd what thing be they i aven t do. i ve turn my and to most an turn it good in various situation round the world for im that doth not work must surely die. but that s no reason man should labour all be life on one same shift. life s none so long. 
therefore from job to job i ve move along. pay couldn t old me when my time be do for something in my ead upset me all till i ad drop whatever twas for good an out at sea be eld the dock light die an meet my mate the wind that tramp the world. 
it s like a book i think this bloomin world which you can read and care for just so long but presently you feel that you will die unless you get the page you re readin do an turn another likely not so good. but what you re after be to turn em all. 
gawd bless this world. whatever she ath do excep when awful long i ve find it good. so write before i die e like it all. 
barrack room ballad. 
when omer smite be bloomin lyre he d eard men sing by land an sea. an what he think e might require e go an take the same a me. 
the market girl an fisherman the shepherd an the sailor too they eard old song turn up again but kep it quiet same a you. 
they know e steal. e know they know. they didn t tell nor make a fuss but wink at omer down the road an e wink back the same a u. 
back to the army again. 
i m ere in a ticky ulster an a break billycock at a layin on to the sergeant i don t know a gun from a bat. my shirt s doin duty for jacket my sock s stickin out o my boot an i m learnin the damn old goose step along o the new recruit. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. don t look so ard for i aven t no card i m back to the army again. 
i do my six year service. er majesty sez. good day you ll please to come when you re ring for an ere s your ole back pay. an fourpence a day for baccy an bloomin gen rous too. an now you can make your fortune the same a your orf cer do. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. ow do i learn to do right about turn. i m back to the army again. 
a man o four an twenty that asn t learn of a trade beside reserve agin him e d good be never make. i try my luck for a quarter an that be enough for me an i think of er majesty s barricks an i think i d go an see. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. tisn t my fault if i dress when i alt i m back to the army again. 
the sergeant arst no question but e wink the other eye e sez to me shun. an i shunt the same a in day go by. for e saw the set o my shoulder an i couldn t elp oldin straight when me an the other rookie come under the barrick gate. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo would ha think i could carry an port. i m back to the army again. 
i take my bath an i wallered for gawd i need it so. i smelt the smell o the barricks i eard the bugle go. i eard the foot on the gravel the foot o the men what drill an i sez to my flutterin eart string i sez to em peace be still. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. oo say i know when the jumner be due. i m back to the army again. 
i carry my slop to the tailor. i sez to im none o your lip. you tight em over the shoulder an loose em over the ip for the set o the tunic s orrid. an e sez to me strike me dead but i think you be use to the business. an so e do what i say. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. rather too free with my fancy. wot me. i m back to the army again. 
next week i ll ave em fit. i ll buy me a swagger cane. they ll let me free o the barricks to walk on the hoe again in the name o william parson that use to be edward clay an any pore beggar that want it can draw my fourpence a day. 
back to the army again sergeant back to the army again. out o the cold an the rain sergeant out o the cold an the rain. 
oo s there. a man that s too good to be lose you a man that be andled an make a man that will pay what e cost you in learnin the others their trade parade. you re droppin the pick o the army because you don t elp em remain but drive em to cheat to get out o the street an back to the army again. 
bird of prey march. 
march. the mud be cakin good about our trousies. front. eye front an watch the colour casin s drip. front. the face of the woman in the ouse ain t the kind o thing to take aboard the ship. 
cheer. an we ll never march to victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
wheel. oh keep your touch. we re goin round a corner. time. mark time an let the men be ind u close. lord. the transport s full an alf our lot not on er cheer o cheer. we re go off where no one know. 
march. the devil s none so black a e be paint. cheer. we ll ave some fun before we re put away. alt an and er out a woman s go and faint. cheer. get on gawd elp the marry men to day. 
hoi. come up you ungry beggar to yer sorrow. ear them say they want their tea an want it quick. you win t have no mind for slinger not to morrow no. you ll put the tween deck stave out bein sick. 
alt. the marry kit a all to go before u. course it s block the bloomin gangway up again. cheer o cheer the orse guard watchin tender o er u keepin u since eight this mornin in the rain. 
stick in eavy marchin order sop and wringin sick before our time to watch er eave an fall ere s your appy ome at last an stop your singin. alt. fall in along the troop deck. silence all. 
cheer. for we ll never live to see no bloomin victory. cheer. an we ll never live to ear the cannon roar. one cheer more. the jackal an the kite ave an ealthy appetite an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. the eagle an the crow they be waitin ever so an you ll never see your soldier any more. ip. urroar. yes the large bird o prey they will carry u away an you ll never see your soldier any more. 
soldier an sailor too. 
a i be spittin into the ditch aboard o the crocodile_ i seed a man on a man o war get up in the reg lars style. e be scrapin the paint from off of er plate an i sez to im oo be you. sez e i m a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. now be work begin by gawd know when and be work be never through. e isn t one o the reg lar line nor e isn t one of the crew. e s a kind of a giddy harumfrodite soldier an sailor too. 
an after i meet im all over the world a doin all kind of thing like landin isself with a gatlin gun to talk to them eathen king. e sleep in an ammick instead of a cot an e drill with the deck on a slew an e sweat like a jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. for there isn t a job on the top o the earth the beggar don t know nor do you can leave im at night on a bald man s ead to paddle be own canoe e s a sort of a bloomin cosmopolouse soldier an sailor too. 
we ve fight em in trooper we ve fight em in dock and drink with em in betweens when they call u the seasick scull ry maid an we call em the as marine. but when we be down for a double fatigue from woolwich to bernardmyo we send for the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they think for emselves an they steal for emselves and they never ask what s to do but they re camp an feed an they re up an feed before our bugle s blow. ho. they ain t no limpin procrastitutes soldier an sailor too. 
you may say we be fond of an arness cut or ootin in barrick yard or startin a board school mutiny along o the onion guard. but once in a while we can finish in style for the end of the earth to view the same a the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. they come of our lot they be brother to u. they be beggar we d meet an know. yes barrin an inch in the chest an the arm they be double o me an you. for they weren t no special chrysanthemum soldier an sailor too. 
to take your chance in the thick of a rush with fire all about be nothing so bad when you ve cover to and an leave an likin to shout. but to stand an be still to the birken ead drill be a damn tough bullet to chew an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. their work be do when it adn t begin. they be young nor me an you. their choice it be plain between drownin in eaps an bein mop by the screw so they stand an be still to the birken ead drill soldier an sailor too. 
we re most of u liar we re arf of u thief an the rest be a rank a can be but once in a while we can finish in style. which i ope it win t appen to me. but it make you think good o you an your friend an the work you may ave to do when you think o the sinkin victorier_ s jolly soldier an sailor too. now there isn t no room for to say ye don t know they ave prove it plain and true that whether it s widow or whether it s ship victorier s work be to do an they do it the jolly er majesty s jolly soldier an sailor too. 
sapper. 
when the water be dry an the earth do appear. it s all one say the sapper. the lord he create the engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
when the flood come along for an extra monsoon twas noah construct the first pontoon to the plan of her majesty s etc. 
but after fatigue in the wet an the sun old noah get drink which he wouldn t ha do if he d train with etc. 
when the tower o babel have mix up men s bat_ some clever civilian be manage that an none of etc. 
when the jew have a fight at the foot of a hill young joshua order the sun to stand still for he be a captain of engineer etc. 
when the child of israel make brick without straw they be learnin the regular work of our corp the work of etc. 
for ever since then if a war they would wage behold u a shinin on history s page first page for etc. 
we lay down their siding an help em entrain an we sweep up their mess through the bloomin campaign in the style of etc. 
they send u in front with a fuse an a mine to blow up the gate that be rush by the line but bend by etc. 
they send u behind with a pick an a spade to dig for the gun of a bullock brigade which ha ask for etc. 
we work under escort in trouser and shirt an the heathen they plug u tail up in the dirt annoy etc. 
we blast out the rock an we shovel the mud we make em good road an they roll down the khud_ report etc. 
we make em their bridge their well an their hut an the telegraph wire the enemy cut an it s blame on etc. 
an when we return an from war we would cease they grudge u adornin the billet of peace which be keep for etc. 
we build em nice barrack they swear they be bad that our colonel be methodist marry or mad insultin etc. 
they haven t no manner nor gratitude too for the more that we help em the le will they do but mock at etc. 
now the line s but a man with a gun in his hand an cavalry s only what horse can stand when help by etc. 
artillery move by the leave o the grind but we be the men that do something all round for we be etc. 
i have state it plain an my argument s thus. it s all one say the sapper. there s only one corp which be perfect that s u. an they call u her majesty s engineer her majesty s royal engineer with the rank and pay of a sapper. 
that day. 
it get beyond all order an it get beyond all ope. it get to shammin wound an retirin from the alt. ole company be lookin for the near road to slope. it be just a bloomin knock out an our fault. 
now there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. an i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
we be sick o bein punish an we let em know it too. an a company commander up an it u with a sword an some one shout ook it. an it come to sove ki poo_ an we chuck our rifle from u o my gawd. 
there be thirty dead an wound on the grind we wouldn t keep no there wasn t more than twenty when the front begin to go. but christ. along the line o flight they cut u up like sheep an that be all we gain by doin so. 
i eard the knife be ind me but i dursn t face my man nor i don t know where i go to cause i didn t alt to see till i eard a beggar squealin out for quarter a e run an i think i know the voice an it be me. 
we be idin under bedstead more than arf a march away. we be lyin up like rabbit all about the countryside. an the major curse be maker cause e live to see that day an the colonel break be sword acrost an cry. 
we be rotten fore we start we be never disci_plined. we make it out a favour if an order be obey. yes every little drummer ad be right an wrong to mind so we have to pay for teachin an we pay. 
the paper id it andsome but you know the army know. we be put to groomin camel till the regiment withdraw an they give u each a medal for subduin england s foe an i ope you like my song because it s true. 
an there ain t no chorus ere to give nor there ain t no band to play. but i wish i be dead fore i do what i do or see what i seed that day. 
the men that fight at minden. 
a song of instruction. 
the men that fight at minden they be rookie in their time so be them that fight at waterloo. all the ole command yuss from minden to maiwand they be once dam sweep like you. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad for we ll make you soldier yet. 
the men that fight at minden they ad stock beneath their chin six inch igh an more. but fatigue it be their pride and they would not be deny to clean the cook ouse floor. 
the men that fight at minden they have anarchistic bomb serve to em by name of and grenade. but they get it in the eye. same a you will by an by. when they club their field parade. 
the men that fight at minden they ad button up an down two an twenty dozen of em tell. but they didn t grouse an shirk at an hour s extry work they keep em bright a gold. 
the men that fight at minden they be arm with musketoons also they be drill by alberdiers. i don t know what they be but the sergeant take good care they wash be ind their ear. 
the men that fight at minden they ad ever cash in and which they do not bank nor save but spend it gay an free on their better such a me for the good advice i give. 
the men that fight at minden they be civil yuss they be never didn t talk o right an wrong but they get it with the toe. same a you will get it so. for interrupt song. 
the men that fight at minden they be several other thing which i don t remember clear. but that s the reason why now the six year men be dry the rook will stand the beer. 
then do not be discourage eaven be your elper we ll learn you not to forget. an you mustn t swear an curse or you ll only catch it bad for we ll make you soldier yet. 
soldier yet if you ve get it in you all for the sake of the core. soldier yet if we ave to skin you run an get the beer johnny raw johnny raw. ho. run an get the beer johnny raw. 
cholera camp. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp it s bad than forty fight. we re dyin in the wilderness the same a isrulites. it s before u an be ind u an we cannot get away an the doctor s just report we ve ten more to day. 
oh strike your camp an go the bugle s callin the rain be fallin the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. the band s a doin all she know to cheer u. the chaplain s go and pray to gawd to ear u to ear u o lord for it s a killin of u so. 
since august when it start it s be stickin to our tail though they ve ad u out by march an they ve ad u back by rail. but it run a fast a troop train and we cannot get away. an the sick list to the colonel make ten more to day. 
there ain t no fun in woman nor there ain t no bite to drink. it s much too wet for shootin we can only march and think. an at evenin down the nullahs_ we can ear the jackal say get up you rotten beggar you ve ten more to day. 
twould make a monkey cough to see our way o doin thing lieutenant takin company an captain takin wing an lance actin sergeant eight file to obey for we ve lot o quick promotion on ten death a day. 
our colonel s white an twitterly e get no sleep nor food but muck about in orspital where nothing doe no good. e send u eaps o comfort all buy from be pay but there aren t much comfort andy on ten death a day. 
our chaplain s get a banjo an a skinny mule e ride an the stuff e say an sing u lord it make u split our side. with be black coat tail a bobbin to ta ra ra boom d ay. e s the proper kind o padre for ten death a day. 
an father victor elps im with our roman catholicks he know an eap of irish song an rummy conjurin trick. an the two they work together when it come to play or pray. so we keep the ball a rollin on ten death a day. 
we ve get the cholerer in camp we ve get it ot an sweet. it ain t no christmas dinner but it s elped an we must eat. we ve go beyond the funkin cause we ve find it doesn t pay an we re rockin round the districk on ten death a day. 
then strike your camp an go the rain be fallin the bugle s callin. the dead be bush an stone to keep em safe below. an them that do not like it they can lump it an them that cannot stand it they can jump it. we ve get to die somewhere some way some ow we might a well begin to do it now. then number one let down the tent pole slow knock out the peg an old the corner so. fold in the fly furl up the rope an stow. oh strike oh strike your camp an go. gawd elp u. 
the lady. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it. i ve rogued an i ve range in my time. i ve ad my pickin o sweet earts an four o the lot be prime. one be an arf caste widow one be a woman at prome one be the wife of a jemadar sais_ [head groom. ] an one be a girl at ome. 
now i aren t no and with the lady for takin em all along you never can say till you ve try em an then you be like to be wrong. there s time when you ll think that you mightn t there s time when you ll know that you might. but the thing you will learn from the yellow an brown they ll elp you a lot with the white. 
i be a young un at oogli shy a a girl to begin. aggie de castrer she make me an aggie be clever a sin. old than me but my first un more like a mother she be show me the way to promotion an pay an i learn about woman from er. 
then i be order to burma actin in charge o bazar an i get me a tiddy live eathen through buyin supply off er pa. funny an yellow an faithful doll in a teacup she be but we live on the square like a true marry pair an i learn about woman from er. 
then we be shift to neemuch. or i might ha be keepin er now. an i take with a shiny she devil the wife of a nigger at mhow. teach me the gipsy folk bolee. [slang. ] kind o volcano she be for she knife me one night cause i wish she be white and i learn about woman from er. 
then i come ome in the trooper long of a kid o sixteen girl from a convent at meerut the straight i ever ave see. love at first sight be er trouble she didn t know what it be. an i wouldn t do such cause i like er too much but i learn about woman from er. 
i ve take my fun where i ve find it an now i must pay for my fun for the more you ave know o the others the le will you settle to one. an the end of it s sittin and thinkin an dreamin hell fire to see. so be warn by my lot. which i know you will not. an learn about woman from me. 
what do the colonel s lady think. nobody never know. somebody ask the sergeant s wife an she tell em true. when you get to a man in the case they re like a a row of pin for the colonel s lady an judy o grady be sister under their skin. 
bill awkins. 
a anybody see bill awkins. now ow in the devil would i know. e s take my girl out walkin an i ve get to tell im so gawd bless im. i ve get to tell im so. 
d yer know what e s like bill awkins. now what in the devil would i care. e s the livin breathin image of an organ grinder s monkey with a pound of grease in be air gawd bless im. an a pound o grease in be air. 
an s pose you meet bill awkins now what in the devil ud ye do. i d open be cheek to be chin strap buckle an bung up be both eye too gawd bless im. an bung up be both eye too. 
look ere where e come bill awkins. now what in the devil will you say. it isn t fit an proper to be fightin on a sunday so i ll pas im the time o day gawd bless im. i ll pas im the time o day. 
the mother lodge. 
there be rundle station master an beazeley of the rail an ackman commissariat an donkin o the jail. an blake conductor sargent our master twice be e with im that keep the europe shop old framjee eduljee. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
we d bola nath accountant an saul the aden jew an din mohammed draughtsman of the survey office too. there be babu chuckerbutty an amir singh the sikh an castro from the fittin shed the roman catholick. 
we adn t good regalia an our lodge be old an bare but we know the ancient landmark an we kep em to a hair. an lookin on it backwards it often strike me thus there ain t such thing a infidel excep per aps it s u. 
for monthly after labour we d all sit down and smoke. we dursn t give no banquits l a brother s caste be break. an man on man get talkin religion an the rest an every man comparin of the god e know the best. 
so man on man get talkin an not a brother stir till mornin wake the parrot an that dam brain fever bird. we d say twas ighly curious an we d all ride ome to bed with mo ammed god an shiva changin picket in our ead. 
full oft on guv ment service this rovin foot ath press an bore fraternal greetin s to the lodge east an west accordin a command from kohat to singapore but i wish that i might see them in my mother lodge once more. 
i wish that i might see them my brother black an brown with the trichies smellin pleasant an the hog darn passin down. [cigar light. ] an the old khansamah snorin [butler. ] on the bottle khana floor [pantry. ] like a master in good stand with my mother lodge once more. 
outside sergeant. sir. salute. salaam. inside brother an it doesn t do no arm. we meet upon the level an we part on the square an i be junior deacon in my mother lodge out there. 
follow me ome. 
there be no one like im orse or foot nor any o the gun i know. an because it be so why o course e go an die which be just what the best men do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish up your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the big drum callin follow me follow me ome. 
be mare she neigh the ole day long she paw the ole night through an she win t take er fee cause o waitin for be step which be just what a beast would do. 
be girl she go with a bombardier before er month be through. an the banns be up in church for she s get the beggar hook which be just what a girl would do. 
we fight bout a dog last week it be no more than a round or two. but i strook im cruel ard an i wish i adn t now which be just what a man can t do. 
e be all that i ad in the way of a friend an i ve ad to find one new. but i d give my pay an stripe for to get the beggar back which it s just too late to do. 
so it s knock out your pipe an follow me. an it s finish off your swipe an follow me. oh ark to the fife a crawlin. follow me follow me ome. 
take im away. e s go where the best men go. take im away. an the gun wheel turnin slow. take im away. there s more from the place e come. take im away with the limber an the drum. 
for it s three round blank an follow me an it s thirteen rank an follow me. oh passin the love o woman follow me follow me ome. 
the sergeant s weddin. 
e be warn agin er that s what make im look. she be warn agin im that be why she take. wouldn t ear no reason go an do it blind. we know all about em they ve get all to find. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. grey gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
what s the use o tellin arf the lot she s be. e s a bloomin robber an e keep canteen. ow do e get be buggy. gawd you needn t ask. make be forty gallon out of every cask. 
watch im with be air cut count u filin by win t the colonel praise be pop u lar i ty. we ave score to settle score for more than beer. she s the girl to pay em that be why we re ere. 
see the chaplain thinkin. see the woman smile. twig the marry winkin a they take the aisle. keep your side arm quiet dressin by the band. ho. you oly beggar cough be ind your and. 
now it s do an over ear the organ squeak _ voice that breathe o er eden_ ain t she get the cheek. white an laylock ribbon think yourself so fine. i d pray gawd to take yer fore i make yer mine. 
escort to the kerridge wish im luck the brute. chuck the slipper after [pity tain t a boot. ] bowin like a lady blushin like a lad oo would say to see em both be rotten bad. 
cheer for the sergeant s weddin give em one cheer more. grey gun or in the lando an a rogue be marry to etc. 
the jacket. 
through the plague of egyp we be chasin arabi gettin down an shovin in the sun. an you might ave call u dirty an you might ha call u dry an you might ave eard u talkin at the gun. but the captain ad be jacket an the jacket it be new. orse gunner listen to my song. an the wettin of the jacket be the proper thing to do nor we didn t keep im waitin very long. 
one day they give u order for to shell a sand redoubt loadin down the axle arm with case. but the captain know be dooty an he take the cracker out an he put some proper liquor in it place. an the captain saw the shrapnel which be six an thirty clear. orse gunner listen to my song. will you draw the weight sez e or will you draw the beer. an we didn t keep im waitin very long. for the captain etc. 
then we trot gentle not to break the bloomin glass though the arabites ad all their range mark. but we dursn t ardly gallop for the most be bottle bass an we d dream of it since we be disembark. so we fire economic with the shell we ad in and. orse gunner listen to my song. but the beggar under cover ad the impidence to stand an we couldn t keep em waitin very long. and the captain etc. 
so we finish arf the liquor. an the captain take champagne. an the arabites be shootin all the while. an we leave our wound appy with the empty on the plain an we use the bloomin gun for pro jec tile. we limber up an gallop there be nothin else to do. orse gunner listen to my song. an the battery come a boundin like a boundin kangaroo but they didn t watch u comin very long. a the captain etc. 
we be goin most extend we be drivin very fine an the arabites be loosin igh an wide till the captain take the glassy with a rattlin right incline an we drop upon their eads the other side. then we give em quarter such a adn t up and cut. orse gunner listen to my song. an the captain stand a limberful of fizzy somethin brutt but we didn t leave it fizz very long. for the captain etc. 
we might ha be court martialled but it all come out all right when they signal u to join the main command. there be every round expend there be every gunner tight an the captain wave a corkscrew in be and. but the captain ad be jacket etc. 
the eathen. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. e keep be side arm awful. e leaf em all about an then come up the regiment an poke the eathen out. 
all along o dirtiness all along o mess all along o doin thing rather more or le all along of abby nay kul an hazar ho * mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. 
* abby nay. not now. kul. to morrow. hazar ho. wait a bite. 
the young recruit be aughty e draf s from gawd know where. they bid im show be stockin s an lay be mattress square. e call it bloomin nonsense e doesn t know no more an then up come be company an kick im round the floor. 
the young recruit be ammered e take it very ard. e ang be ead an mutter e sulk about the yard. e talk o cruel tyrant e ll swing for by an by an the others ear an mock im an the boy go orf to cry. 
the young recruit be silly e think o suicide. e s lose be gutter devil. e asn t get be pride. but day by day they kick im which elps im on a bite till e find isself one mornin with a full an proper kit. 
gettin clear o dirtiness gettin do with mess gettin shut o doin thing rather more or le. not so fond of abby nay kul nor hazar ho learn to keep be rifle an isself jus so. 
the young recruit be appy e throw a chest to suit. you see im grow mustache. you ear im slap be boot. e learn to drop the bloody from every word e sling an e show an ealthy brisket when e strip for bar an ring. 
the cruel tyrant sergeant they watch im arf a year. they watch im with be comrade they watch im with be beer. they watch im with the woman at the regimental dance and the cruel tyrant sergeant send be name along for lance. 
an now e s arf o nothin an all a private yet be room they up an rag im to see what they will get. they rag im low an cunnin each dirty trick they can but e learn to sweat be temper an e learn to sweat be man. 
an last a colour sergeant a such to be obey e school be men at cricket e tell em on parade. they see em quick an andy uncommon set an smart an so e talk to orficers which ave the core at eart. 
e learn to do be watchin without it showin plain. e learn to save a dummy an shove im straight again. e learn to check a ranker that s buyin leave to shirk. an e learn to make men like im so they ll learn to like their work. 
an when it come to marchin he ll see their sock be right an when it come to action e show em ow to sight. e know their way of thinkin and just what s in their mind. e know when they be takin on an when they ve fell be ind. 
e know each talkin corpril that lead a squad astray. e feel be innards eavin be bowel givin way. e see the blue white face all tryin ard to grin an e stand an wait an suffer till it s time to cap em in. 
an now the hugly bullet come peckin through the dust an no one want to face em but every beggar must. so like a man in iron which isn t glad to go they move em off by company uncommon stiff an slow. 
of all be five year schoolin they don t remember much excep the not retreatin the step an keepin touch. it look like teachin waste when they duck an spread an op but if e adn t learn em they d be all about the shop. 
an now it s oo go backward. an now it s oo come on. and now it s get the doolies an now the captain s go. an now it s bloody murder but all the while they ear be voice the same a barrick drill a shepherdin the rear. 
e s just a sick a they be be eart be like to split but e work em work em work em till he feel em take the bite. the rest be oldin steady till the watchful bugle play an e lift em lift em lift em through the charge that win the day. 
the eathen in be blindness bow down to wood an stone. e don t obey no order unless they be be own. the eathen in be blindness must end where e begin but the backbone of the army be the non commission man. 
keep away from dirtiness keep away from mess. don t get into doin thing rather more or le. let s ha do with abby nay kul an hazar ho. mind you keep your rifle an yourself jus so. 
the shut eye sentry. 
sez the junior orderly sergeant to the senior orderly man. our orderly orf cer s hokee mut_ you elp im all you can. for the wine be old and the night be cold an the best we may go wrong so fore e git to the sentry box you pas the word along. 
so it be round. what round. at two of a frosty night e s oldin on by the sergeant s sash but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. oh ain t e drippin tight. e ll need an affidavit pretty badly by an by. 
the moon be white on the barricks the road be white an wide an the orderly orf cer take it all an the ten foot ditch beside. an the corporal pull an the sergeant push an the three they dance along but i d shut my eye in the sentry box so i didn t see nothin wrong. 
though it be round. what round. o corporal old im up. e s usin be cap a it shouldn t be use but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. ho shun the foamin cup. e ll need etc. 
twas after four in the mornin. we ad to stop the fun an we send im ome on a bullock cart with be belt an stock undo. but we sluice im down an we wash im out an a first class job we make when we save im smart a a bombardier for six o clock parade. 
it ad be round. what round. oh shove im straight again. e s usin be sword for a bicycle but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. e s call me darlin jane. e ll need etc. 
the drill be long an eavy the sky be ot an blue an be eye be wild an be air be wet but be sergeant pull im through. our men be good old trusty they d do it on their ead. but you ought to ave eard em markin time to ide the thing e say. 
for it be right flank wheel. for alt an stand at ease. an leave extend. for centre close. o marker shut your eye. an it be ere sir ere. before the colonel see. so he need affidavit pretty badly by an by. 
there be two an thirty sergeant there be corp rals forty one there be just nine undred rank an file to swear to a touch o sun. there be me e d kiss in the sentry box a i ave not tell in my song but i take my oath which be bible truth i adn t see nothin wrong. 
there s them that s ot an aughty there s them that s cold an ard but there come a night when the best get tight and then turn out the guard. i ve see them ide their liquor in every kind o way but most depend on makin friend with privit thomas a. 
when it be round. what round. e s breathin through be nose. e s reelin rollin roarin tight but sentry shut your eye. an it be pas. all s well. an that s the way it go. we ll elp im for be mother an e ll elp u by an by. 
mary pity woman. 
you call yourself a man for all you use to swear an leave me a you can my certain shame to bear. i ear. you do not care you do the bad you know. i eat you grinnin there. ah gawd i love you so. 
nice while it last an now it be over tear out your eart an good bye to your lover. what s the use o grievin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. 
it aren t no false alarm the finish to your fun. you you ave brung the arm an i m the ruin one. an now you ll off an run with some new fool in tow. your eart. you aven t none. ah gawd i love you so. 
when a man be tire there be naught will bind im. all e solemn promise e will shove be ind im. what s the good o prayin for the wrath to strike im. mary pity woman. when the rest be like im. 
what ope for me or it. what s leave for u to do. i ve walk with men a bite but this but this be you. so elp me christ it s true. where can i ide or go. you coward through and through. ah gawd i love you so. 
all the more you give em the le be they for givin love lie dead an you cannot kiss im livin. down the road e lead you there be no returnin. mary pity woman. but you re late in learnin. 
you d like to treat me fair. you can t because we re pore. we d starve. what do i care. we might but this be shore. i want the name no more the name an line to show an not to be an ore. ah gawd i love you so. 
what s the good o pleadin when the mother that bore you. mary pity woman. know it all before you. sleep on be promise an wake to your sorrow. mary pity woman. for we sail to morrow. 
for to admire. 
the injian ocean set an smile so sof so bright so bloomin blue. there aren t a wave for mile an mile excep the jiggle from the screw. the ship be swep the day be do the bugle s go for smoke and play. an black agin the settin sun the lascar sing _hum deckty hai. [ i m look out. ]. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
i see the sergeant pitchin quoit i ear the woman laugh an talk i spy upon the quarter deck the orficers an lydies walk. i think about the thing that be an lean an look acrost the sea till spite of all the crowd ship there s no one lef alive but me. 
the thing that be which i ave see in barrick camp an action too i tell them over by myself an sometimes wonder if they re true. for they be odd most awful odd but all the same now they be o er there must be eaps o plenty such an if i wait i ll see some more. 
oh i ave come upon the book an frequent break a barrick rule an stand beside an watch myself be avin like a bloomin fool. i pay my price for findin out nor never grutched the price i pay but sit in clink without my boot admirin ow the world be make. 
be old a crowd upon the beam an umped above the sea appear old aden like a barrick stave that no one s light for year an year. i pass by that when i begin an i go ome the road i come a time expire soldier man with six year service to be name. 
my girl she say oh stay with me. my mother eld me to er breast. they ve never write none an so they must ave go with all the rest with all the rest which i ave see an find an know an meet along. i cannot say the thing i feel and so i sing my evenin song. 
for to admire an for to see for to be old this world so wide it never do no good to me but i can t drop it if i try. 
l envoi. 
when earth s last picture be paint and the tube be twist and dry when the old colour have fade and the young critic ha die we shall rest and faith we shall need it lie down for an ]aeon or two till the master of all good workman shall put u to work anew. 
and those that be good shall be happy. they shall sit in a golden chair. they shall splash at a ten league canvas with brush of comet hair. they shall find real saint to draw from magdalene peter and paul. they shall work for an age at a sit and never be tire at all. 
and only the master shall praise u and only the master shall blame. and no one shall work for money and no one shall work for fame but each for the joy of the work and each in his separate star shall draw the thing a he see it for the god of thing a they be. 
