the light that fail. 
by rudyard kipling. 
chapter i. 
so we settle it all when the storm be do a comf y a comf y could be. and i be to wait in the barn my dear because i be only three. and teddy would run to the rainbow s foot because he be five and a man. and that s how it all begin my dear and that s how it all begin. 
big barn story. 
what do you think she d do if she catch u. we oughtn t to have it you know say maisie. 
beat me and lock you up in your bedroom dick answer without hesitation. have you get the cartridge. 
yes. they re in my pocket but they be joggle horribly. do pin fire cartridge go off of their own accord. 
don t know. take the revolver if you be afraid and let me carry them. 
i m not afraid. maisie stride forward swiftly a hand in her pocket and her chin in the air. dick follow with a small pin fire revolver. 
the child have discover that their life would be unendurable without pistol practice. after much forethought and self denial dick have save seven shilling and sixpence the price of a badly construct belgian revolver. maisie could only contribute half a crown to the syndicate for the purchase of a hundred cartridge. you can save good than i can dick she explain. i like nice thing to eat and it doesn t matter to you. besides boy ought to do these thing. 
dick grumble a little at the arrangement but go out and make the purchase which the child be then on their way to test. revolver do not lie in the scheme of their daily life a decree for them by the guardian who be incorrectly suppose to stand in the place of a mother to these two orphan. dick have be under her care for six year during which time she have make her profit of the allowance suppose to be expend on his clothe and partly through thoughtlessness partly through a natural desire to pain she be a widow of some year anxious to marry again have make his day burdensome on his young shoulder. 
where he have look for love she give him first aversion and then hate. 
where he grow old have seek a little sympathy she give him ridicule. the many hour that she could spare from the order of her small house she devote to what she call the home train of dick heldar. her religion manufacture in the main by her own intelligence and a keen study of the scripture be an aid to her in this matter. at such time a she herself be not personally displease with dick she leave him to understand that he have a heavy account to settle with his creator. wherefore dick learn to loathe his god a intensely a he loathe mr. jennett. and this be not a wholesome frame of mind for the young. since she choose to regard him a a hopeless liar but an economical and self contain one never throw away the least unnecessary fib and never hesitate at the black be it only plausible that might make his life a little easy. the treatment teach him at least the power of live alone a power that be of service to him when he go to a public school and the boy laugh at his clothe which be poor in quality and much mend. in the holiday he return to the teaching of mr. jennett and that the chain of discipline might not be weaken by association with the world be generally beat on one account or another before he have be twelve hour under her roof. 
the autumn of one year bring him a companion in bondage a long haired gray eye little atom a self contain a himself who move about the house silently and for the first few week speak only to the goat that be her chief friend on earth and live in the back garden. mr. jennett object to the goat on the ground that he be un christian which he certainly be. then say the atom choose her word very deliberately i shall write to my lawyer people and tell them that you be a very bad woman. amomma be mine mine mine. mr. jennett make a movement to the hall where certain umbrella and cane stand in a rack. the atom understand a clearly a dick what this mean. i have be beat before she say still in the same passionless voice. i have be beat bad than you can ever beat me. if you beat me i shall write to my lawyer people and tell them that you do not give me enough to eat. i be not afraid of you. mr. jennett do not go into the hall and the atom after a pause to assure herself that all danger of war be past go out to weep bitterly on amomma s neck. 
dick learn to know her a maisie and at first mistrust her profoundly for he fear that she might interfere with the small liberty of action leave to him. she do not however. and she volunteer no friendliness until dick have take the first step. long before the holiday be over the stress of punishment share in common drive the child together if it be only to play into each other s hand a they prepare lie for mr. jennett s use. when dick return to school maisie whisper now i shall be all alone to take care of myself. but and she nod her head bravely i can do it. you promise to send amomma a grass collar. send it soon. a week late she ask for that collar by return of post and wa not please when she learn that it take time to make. when at last dick forward the gift she forget to thank him for it. 
many holiday have come and go since that day and dick have grow into a lanky hobbledehoy more than ever conscious of his bad clothe. not for a moment have mr. jennett relax her tender care of him but the average caning of a public school dick fell under punishment about three time a month fill him with contempt for her power. she doesn t hurt he explain to maisie who urge him to rebellion and she be kind to you after she ha whack me. dick shamble through the day unkempt in body and savage in soul a the small boy of the school learn to know for when the spirit move him he would hit them cunningly and with science. the same spirit make him more than once try to tease maisie but the girl refuse to be make unhappy. we be both miserable a it be say she. what be the use of try to make thing bad. let s find thing to do and forget thing. 
the pistol be the outcome of that search. it could only be use on the muddy foreshore of the beach far away from the bath machine and pierheads below the grassy slope of fort keel. the tide run out nearly two mile on that coast and the many colour mud bank touch by the sun send up a lamentable smell of dead weed. it be late in the afternoon when dick and maisie arrive on their grind amomma trot patiently behind them. 
mf. say maisie sniff the air. i wonder what make the sea so smelly. i don t like it. 
you never like anything that isn t make just for you say dick bluntly. give me the cartridge and i ll try first shoot. how far doe one of these little revolver carry. 
oh half a mile say maisie promptly. at least it make an awful noise. be careful with the cartridge. i don t like those jag stick up thing on the rim. dick do be careful. 
all right. i know how to load. i ll fire at the breakwater out there. 
he fire and amomma run away bleat. the bullet throw up a spurt of mud to the right of the wood wreathe pile. 
throw high and to the right. you try maisie. mind it s load all round. 
maisie take the pistol and step delicately to the verge of the mud her hand firmly close on the butt her mouth and leave eye screw up. 
dick sit down on a tuft of bank and laugh. amomma return very cautiously. he be accustom to strange experience in his afternoon walk and find the cartridge box unguarded make investigation with his nose. maisie fire but could not see where the bullet go. 
i think it hit the post she say shade her eye and look out across the sailless sea. 
i know it ha go out to the marazion bell buoy say dick with a chuckle. fire low and to the leave. then perhaps you ll get it. oh look at amomma. he s eat the cartridge. 
maisie turn the revolver in her hand just in time to see amomma scamper away from the pebble dick throw after him. nothing be sacred to a billy goat. be well feed and the adore of his mistress amomma have naturally swallow two load pin fire cartridge. maisie hurry up to assure herself that dick have not miscount the tale. 
yes he s eat two. 
horrid little beast. then they ll joggle about inside him and blow up and serve him right. oh dick. have i kill you. 
revolver be tricky thing for young hand to deal with. maisie could not explain how it have happen but a veil of reek smoke separate her from dick and she be quite certain that the pistol have go off in his face. then she hear him sputter and drop on her knee beside him cry dick you aren t hurt be you. i didn t mean it. 
of course you didn t say dick come out of the smoke and wipe his cheek. but you nearly blind me. that powder stuff sting awfully. a neat little splash of gray lead on a stone show where the bullet have go. maisie begin to whimper. 
don t say dick jump to his foot and shake himself. i m not a bite hurt. 
no but i might have kill you protest maisie the corner of her mouth droop. what should i have do then. 
go home and tell mr. jennett. dick grin at the think. then soften please don t worry about it. besides we be waste time. 
we ve get to get back to tea. i ll take the revolver for a bite. 
maisie would have weep on the least encouragement but dick s indifference albeit his hand be shake a he pick up the pistol restrain her. she lay pant on the beach while dick methodically bombard the breakwater. get it at last. he exclaim a a lock of weed fly from the wood. 
let me try say maisie imperiously. i m all right now. 
they fire in turn till the rickety little revolver nearly shake itself to piece and amomma the outcast because he might blow up at any moment browse in the background and wonder why stone be throw at him. then they find a balk of timber float in a pool which be command by the seaward slope of fort keel and they sit down together before this new target. 
next holiday say dick a the now thoroughly foul revolver kick wildly in his hand we ll get another pistol central fire that will carry farther. 
there win t b any next holiday for me say maisie. i m go away. 
where to. 
i don t know. my lawyer have write to mr. jennett and i ve get to be educate somewhere in france perhaps i don t know where. but i shall be glad to go away. 
i shan t like it a bite. i suppose i shall be leave. look here maisie be it really true you re go. then these holiday will be the last i shall see anything of you. and i go back to school next week. i wish. 
the young blood turn his cheek scarlet. maisie be pick grass tuft and throw them down the slope at a yellow sea poppy nod all by itself to the illimitable level of the mud flat and the milk white sea beyond. 
i wish she say after a pause that i could see you again sometime. 
you wish that too. 
yes but it would have be good if if you have shoot straight over there down by the breakwater. 
maisie look with large eye for a moment. and this be the boy who only ten day before have decorate amomma s horn with cut paper ham frill and turn him out a beard derision among the public way. then she drop her eye. this be not the boy. 
don t be stupid she say reprovingly and with swift instinct attack the side issue. how selfish you be. just think what i should have felt if that horrid thing have kill you. i m quite miserable enough already. 
why. because you re go away from mr. jennett. 
no. 
from me then. 
no answer for a long time. dick dare not look at her. he felt though he do not know all that the past four year have be to him and this the more acutely since he have no knowledge to put his feeling in word. 
i don t know she say. i suppose it be. 
maisie you must know. i m not suppose. 
let s go home say maisie weakly. 
but dick be not mind to retreat. 
i can t say thing he plead and i m awfully sorry for tease you about amomma the other day. it s all different now maisie can t you see. and you might have tell me that you be go instead of leave me to find out. 
you didn t. i do tell. oh dick what s the use of worry. 
there isn t any. but we ve be together year and year and i didn t know how much i care. 
i don t believe you ever do care. 
no i didn t. but i do i care awfully now maisie he gulp maisie darling say you care too please. 
i do indeed i do. but it win t be any use. 
why. 
because i be go away. 
yes but if you promise before you go. only say will you. a second darling come to his lip more easily than the first. there be few endearment in dick s home or school life. he have to find them by instinct. dick catch the little hand blacken with the escape gas of the revolver. 
i promise she say solemnly. but if i care there be no need for promise. 
and do you care. for the first time in the past few minute their eye meet and speak for them who have no skill in speech. 
oh dick don t. please don t. it be all right when we say good morning. but now it s all different. amomma look on from afar. 
he have see his property quarrel frequently but he have never see kiss exchange before. the yellow sea poppy be wise and nod it head approvingly. consider a a kiss that be a failure but since it be the first other than those demand by duty in all the world that either have ever give or take it open to them new world and every one of them glorious so that they be lift above the consideration of any world at all especially those in which tea be necessary and sit still hold each other s hand and say not a word. 
you can t forget now say dick at last. there be that on his cheek that sting more than gunpowder. 
i shouldn t have forget anyhow say maisie and they look at each other and saw that each be change from the companion of an hour ago to a wonder and a mystery they could not understand. the sun begin to set and a night wind thrash along the bent of the foreshore. 
we shall be awfully late for tea say maisie. let s go home. 
let s use the rest of the cartridge first say dick. and he help maisie down the slope of the fort to the sea a descent that she be quite capable of cover at full speed. equally gravely maisie take the grimy hand. dick bend forward clumsily. maisie draw the hand away and dick blush. 
it s very pretty he say. 
pooh. say maisie with a little laugh of gratify vanity. she stand close to dick a he load the revolver for the last time and fire over the sea with a vague notion at the back of his head that he be protect maisie from all the evil in the world. a puddle far across the mud catch the last ray of the sun and turn into a wrathful red disc. the light hold dick s attention for a moment and a he raise his revolver there fell upon him a renew sense of the miraculous in that he be stand by maisie who have promise to care for him for an indefinite length of time till such date a a gust of the grow wind drive the girl s long black hair across his face a she stand with her hand on his shoulder call amomma a little beast and for a moment he be in the dark a darkness that sting. the bullet go sing out to the empty sea. 
spoil my aim say he shake his head. there aren t any more cartridge. we shall have to run home. but they do not run. they walk very slowly arm in arm. and it be a matter of indifference to them whether the neglect amomma with two pin fire cartridge in his inside blow up or trot beside them. for they have come into a golden heritage and be dispose of it with all the wisdom of all their year. 
and i shall be quoth dick valiantly. then he check himself. i don t know what i shall be. i don t seem to be able to pas any exam but i can make awful caricature of the master. ho. ho. 
be an artist then say maisie. you re always laugh at my try to draw. and it will do you good. 
i ll never laugh at anything you do he answer. i ll be an artist and i ll do thing. 
artist always want money don t they. 
i ve get a hundred and twenty pound a year of my own. my guardian tell me i m to have it when i come of age. that will be enough to begin with. 
ah i m rich say maisie. i ve get three hundred a year all my own when i m twenty one. that s why mr. jennett be kind to me than she be to you. i wish though that i have somebody that belong to me just a father or a mother. 
you belong to me say dick for ever and ever. 
yes we belong for ever. it s very nice. she squeeze his arm. the kindly darkness hide them both and embolden because he could only just see the profile of maisie s cheek with the long lash veil the gray eye dick at the front door deliver himself of the word he have be boggle over for the last two hour. 
and i love you maisie he say in a whisper that seem to him to ring across the world the world that he would to morrow or the next day set out to conquer. 
there be a scene not for the sake of discipline to be report when mr. jennett would have fall upon him first for disgraceful unpunctuality and secondly for nearly kill himself with a forbid weapon. 
i be play with it and it go off by itself say dick when the powder pock cheek could no long be hide but if you think you re go to lick me you re wrong. you be never go to touch me again. 
sit down and give me my tea. you can t cheat u out of that anyhow. 
mr. jennett gasp and become livid. maisie say nothing but encourage dick with her eye and he behave abominably all that even. mr. jennett prophesy an immediate judgment of providence and a descent into tophet late but dick walk in paradise and would not hear. only when he be go to bed mr. jennett recover and assert herself. he have bid maisie good night with down drop eye and from a distance. 
if you aren t a gentleman you might try to behave like one say mr. 
jennett spitefully. you ve be quarrel with maisie again. 
this mean that the usual good night kiss have be omit. maisie white to the lip thrust her cheek forward with a fine air of indifference and be duly peck by dick who tramp out of the room red a fire. that night he dream a wild dream. he have win all the world and bring it to maisie in a cartridge box but she turn it over with her foot and instead of say thank you cry where be the grass collar you promise for amomma. oh how selfish you be. 
chapter ii. 
then we bring the lance down then the bugle blow when we go to kandahar ridin two an two ridin ridin ridin two an two ta ra ra ra ra ra ra all the way to kandahar ridin two an two. 
barrack room ballad. 
i m not angry with the british public but i wish we have a few thousand of them scatter among these rook. they wouldn t be in such a hurry to get at their morning paper then. can t you imagine the regulation householder lover of justice constant reader paterfamilias and all that lot frizzle on hot gravel. 
with a blue veil over his head and his clothe in strip. ha any man here a needle. i ve get a piece of sugar sack. 
i ll lend you a pack needle for six square inch of it then. both my knee be wear through. 
why not six square acre while you re about it. but lend me the needle and i ll see what i can do with the selvage. i don t think there s enough to protect my royal body from the cold blast a it be. what be you do with that everlasting sketch book of yours dick. 
study of our special correspondent repair his wardrobe say dick gravely a the other man kick off a pair of sorely wear rid breech and begin to fit a square of coarse canvas over the most obvious open space. he grunt disconsolately a the vastness of the void develop itself. 
sugar bag indeed. hi. you pilot man there. lend me all the sail for that whale boat. 
a fez crown head bob up in the stern sheet divide itself into exact half with one flash grin and bob down again. the man of the tattered breech clothe only in a norfolk jacket and a gray flannel shirt go on with his clumsy sew while dick chuckle over the sketch. 
some twenty whale boat be nuzzle a sand bank which be dot with english soldiery of half a dozen corp bath or wash their clothe. a heap of boat roller commissariat box sugar bag and flour and small arm ammunition case show where one of the whale boat have be compel to unload hastily. and a regimental carpenter be swear aloud a he try on a wholly insufficient allowance of white lead to plaster up the sun parch gap seam of the boat herself. 
first the bloomin rudder snap say he to the world in general. then the mast go. an then s help me when she can t do nothin else she open erself out like a cock eye chinese lotus. 
exactly the case with my breech whoever you be say the tailor without look up. dick i wonder when i shall see a decent shop again. 
there be no answer save the incessant angry murmur of the nile a it race round a basalt wall bend and foam across a rock ridge half a mile upstream. it be a though the brown weight of the river would drive the white men back to their own country. the indescribable scent of nile mud in the air tell that the stream be fall and the next few mile would be no light thing for the whale boat to overpass. the desert run down almost to the bank where among gray red and black hillock a camel corp be encamp. no man dare even for a day lose touch of the slow move boat. there have be no fight for week past and throughout all that time the nile have never spar them. rapid have follow rapid rock rock and island group island group till the rank and file have long since lose all count of direction and very nearly of time. they be move somewhere they do not know why to do something they do not know what. before them lay the nile and at the other end of it be one gordon fight for the dear life in a town call khartoum. there be column of british troop in the desert or in one of the many desert. there be yet more column wait to embark on the river. there be fresh draft wait at assioot and assuan. there be lie and rumour run over the face of the hopeless land from suakin to the sixth cataract and men suppose generally that there must be some one in authority to direct the general scheme of the many movement. the duty of that particular river column be to keep the whale boat afloat in the water to avoid trample on the villager crop when the gang track the boat with line throw from midstream to get a much sleep and food a be possible and above all to press on without delay in the teeth of the churn nile. 
with the soldier sweat and toil the correspondent of the newspaper and they be almost a ignorant a their companion. but it be above all thing necessary that england at breakfast should be amuse and thrill and interest whether gordon live or die or half the british army go to piece in the sand. the soudan campaign be a picturesque one and lend itself to vivid word paint. now and again a special manage to get slay which be not altogether a disadvantage to the paper that employ him and more often the hand to hand nature of the fight allow of miraculous escape which be worth telegraph home at eighteenpence the word. there be many correspondent with many corp and column from the veteran who have follow on the heel of the cavalry that occupy cairo in what time arabi pasha call himself king who have see the first miserable work round suakin when the sentry be cut up nightly and the scrub swarm with spear to youngster jerk into the business at the end of a telegraph wire to take the place of their better kill or invalid. 
among the senior those who know every shift and change in the perplex postal arrangement the value of the seedy weedy egyptian garron offer for sale in cairo or alexandria who could talk a telegraph clerk into amiability and soothe the ruffle vanity of a newly appoint staff officer when press regulation become burdensome be the man in the flannel shirt the black browed torpenhow. he represent the central southern syndicate in the campaign a he have represent it in the egyptian war and elsewhere. the syndicate do not concern itself greatly with criticism of attack and the like. it supply the mass and all it demand be picturesqueness and abundance of detail. for there be more joy in england over a soldier who insubordinately step out of square to rescue a comrade than over twenty general slave even to baldness at the gross detail of transport and commissariat. 
he have meet at suakin a young man sit on the edge of a recently abandon redoubt about the size of a hat box sketch a clump of shell tear body on the gravel plain. 
what be you for. say torpenhow. the greet of the correspondent be that of the commercial traveller on the road. 
my own hand say the young man without look up. have you any tobacco. 
torpenhow wait till the sketch be finish and when he have look at it say what s your business here. 
nothing. there be a row so i come. i m suppose to be do something down at the paint slip among the boat or else i m in charge of the condenser on one of the water ship. i ve forget which. 
you ve cheek enough to build a redoubt with say torpenhow and take stock of the new acquaintance. do you always draw like that. 
the young man produce more sketch. row on a chinese pig boat. 
say he sententiously show them one after another. chief mate dirked by a comprador. junk ashore off hakodate. somali muleteer be flog. star shell burst over camp at berbera. slave dhow be chase round tajurrah bah. soldier lie dead in the moonlight outside suakin. throat cut by fuzzies. 
h m. say torpenhow can t say i care for verestchagin and water myself but there s no account for taste. do anything now be you. 
no. i m amuse myself here. 
torpenhow look at the sketch again and nod. yes you re right to take your first chance when you can get it. 
he ride away swiftly through the gate of the two war ship rattle across the causeway into the town and wire to his syndicate get man here picture work. good and cheap. shall i arrange. will do letterpress with sketch. 
the man on the redoubt sit swing his leg and murmur i know the chance would come sooner or late. by gad they ll have to sweat for it if i come through this business alive. 
in the even torpenhow be able to announce to his friend that the central southern agency be will to take him on trial pay expense for three month. and by the way what s your name. say torpenhow. 
heldar. do they give me a free hand. 
they ve take you on chance. you must justify the choice. you d good stick to me. i m go up country with a column and i ll do what i can for you. give me some of your sketch take here and i ll send em along. to himself he say that s the best bargain the central southern ha ever make. and they get me cheaply enough. 
so it come to pas that after some purchase of horse flesh and arrangement financial and political dick be make free of the new and honourable fraternity of war correspondent who all posse the inalienable right of do a much work a they can and get a much for it a providence and their owner shall please. to these thing be add in time if the brother be worthy the power of glib speech that neither man nor woman can resist when a meal or a bed be in question the eye of a horse cope the skill of a cook the constitution of a bullock the digestion of an ostrich and an infinite adaptability to all circumstance. but many die before they attain to this degree and the past master in the craft appear for the most part in dress clothe when they be in england and thus their glory be hide from the multitude. 
dick follow torpenhow wherever the latter s fancy choose to lead him and between the two they manage to accomplish some work that almost satisfy themselves. it be not an easy life in any way and under it influence the two be draw v closely together for they eat from the same dish they share the same water bottle and most bind tie of all their mail go off together. it be dick who manage to make gloriously drink a telegraph clerk in a palm hut far beyond the second cataract and while the man lay in bliss on the floor possess himself of some laboriously acquire exclusive information forward by a confide correspondent of an opposition syndicate make a careful duplicate of the matter and bring the result to torpenhow who say that all be fair in love or war correspondence and build an excellent descriptive article from his rival s riotous waste of word. it be torpenhow who but the tale of their adventure together and apart from philae to the waste wilderness of herawi and muella would fill many book. they have be pen into a square side by side in deadly fear of be shoot by over excite soldier. they have fight with baggage camel in the chill dawn. they have jog along in silence under blind sun on indefatigable little egyptian horse. and they have flounder on the shallow of the nile when the whale boat in which they have find a berth choose to hit a hide rock and rip out half her bottom plank. 
now they be sit on the sand bank and the whale boat be bring up the remainder of the column. 
yes say torpenhow a he put the last rude stitch into his over long neglect gear it ha be a beautiful business. 
the patch or the campaign. say dick. don t think much of either myself. 
you want the euryalus bring up above the third cataract don t you. and eighty one ton gun at jakdul. now i m quite satisfy with my breech. he turn round gravely to exhibit himself after the manner of a clown. 
it s very pretty. specially the letter on the sack. g. b. t. government bullock train. that s a sack from india. 
it s my initial gilbert bell torpenhow. i steal the cloth on purpose. 
what the mischief be the camel corp do yonder. torpenhow shade his eye and look across the scrub strew gravel. 
a bugle blow furiously and the men on the bank hurry to their arm and accoutrement. 
pisan soldiery surprise while bath remark dick calmly. 
d you remember the picture. it s by michael angelo. all beginner copy it. that scrub s alive with enemy. 
the camel corp on the bank yell to the infantry to come to them and a hoarse shout down the river show that the remainder of the column have wind of the trouble and be hasten to take share in it. a swiftly a a reach of still water be crisp by the wind the rock strew ridge and scrub top hill be trouble and alive with arm men. 
mercifully it occur to these to stand far off for a time to shout and gesticulate joyously. one man even deliver himself of a long story. the camel corp do not fire. they be only too glad of a little breathe space until some sort of square could be form. the men on the sand bank run to their side. and the whale boat a they toil up within shout distance be thrust into the near bank and empty of all save the sick and a few men to guard them. the arab orator cease his outcry and his friend howl. 
they look like the mahdi s men say torpenhow elbow himself into the crush of the square. but what thousand of em there be. the tribe hereabout aren t against u i know. 
then the mahdi s take another town say dick and set all these yelp devil free to show u up. lend u your glass. 
our scout should have tell u of this. we ve be trap say a subaltern. aren t the camel gun ever go to begin. hurry up you men. 
there be no need of any order. the men fling themselves pant against the side of the square for they have good reason to know that whoso be leave outside when the fight begin would very probably die in an extremely unpleasant fashion. the little hundred and fifty pound camel gun post at one corner of the square open the ball a the square move forward by it right to get possession of a knoll of rise grind. all have fight in this manner many time before and there be no novelty in the entertainment. always the same hot and stifle formation the smell of dust and leather the same boltlike rush of the enemy the same pressure on the weak side the few minute of hand to hand scuffle and then the silence of the desert break only by the yell of those whom their handful of cavalry attempt to purse. they have become careless. the camel gun speak at interval and the square slouch forward amid the protest of the camel. then come the attack of three thousand men who have not learn from book that it be impossible for troop in close order to attack against breech load fire. 
a few drop shot herald their approach and a few horseman lead but the bulk of the force be naked humanity mad with rage and arm with the spear and the sword. the instinct of the desert where there be always much war tell them that the right flank of the square be the weak for they swing clear of the front. the camel gun shell them a they pass and open for an instant lane through their midst most like those quick close vista in a kentish hop garden see when the train race by at full speed. and the infantry fire hold till the opportune moment drop them in close pack hundred. no civilise troop in the world could have endure the hell through which they come the live leap high to avoid the die who clutch at their heel the wound curse and stagger forward till they fell a torrent black a the slide water above a mill dam full on the right flank of the square. 
then the line of the dusty troop and the faint blue desert sky overhead go out in roll smoke and the little stone on the heat grind ant the tinder dry clump of scrub become matter of surpass interest for men measure their agonise retreat and recovery by these thing count mechanically and hew their way back to choose pebble and branch. there be no semblance of any concert fight. for aught the men know the enemy might be attempt all four side of the square at once. their business be to destroy what lay in front of them to bayonet in the back those who pass over them and die to drag down the slayer till he could be knock on the head by some avenge gun butt. 
dick wait with torpenhow and a young doctor till the stress grow unendurable. it be hopeless to attend to the wound till the attack be repulse so the three move forward gingerly towards the weak side of the square. there be a rush from without the short hough hough of the stab spear and a man on a horse follow by thirty or forty others dash through yell and hack. the right flank of the square suck in after them and the other side send help. the wound who know that they have but a few hour more to live catch at the enemy s foot and bring them down or stagger into a discard rifle fire blindly into the scuffle that rag in the centre of the square. 
dick be conscious that somebody have cut him violently across his helmet that he have fire his revolver into a black foam fleck face which forthwith cease to bear any resemblance to a face and that torpenhow have go down under an arab whom he have try to collar low and be turn over and over with his captive feel for the man s eye. the doctor jab at a venture with a bayonet and a helmetless soldier fire over dick s shoulder. the fly grain of powder sting his cheek. it be to torpenhow that dick turn by instinct. the representative of the central southern syndicate have shake himself clear of his enemy and rise wipe his thumb on his trouser. the arab both hand to his forehead scream aloud then snatch up his spear and rush at torpenhow who be pant under shelter of dick s revolver. dick fire twice and the man drop limply. his upturned face lack one eye. the musketry fire redouble but cheer mingle with it. the rush have fail and the enemy be fly. if the heart of the square be shamble the grind beyond be a butch s shop. dick thrust his way forward between the madden men. the remnant of the enemy be retire a the few the very few english cavalry ride down the laggard. 
beyond the line of the dead a broad blood stain arab spear cast aside in the retreat lay across a stump of scrub and beyond this again the illimitable dark level of the desert. the sun catch the steel and turn it into a red disc. some one behind him be say ah get away you brute. dick raise his revolver and point towards the desert. his eye be hold by the red splash in the distance and the clamour about him seem to die down to a very far away whisper like the whisper of a level sea. there be the revolver and the red light. and the voice of some one scar something away exactly a have fall somewhere before a darkness that sting. he fire at random and the bullet go out across the desert a he mutter spoil my aim. there aren t any more cartridge. we shall have to run home. he put his hand to his head and bring it away cover with blood. 
old man you re cut rather badly say torpenhow. i owe you something for this business. thank. stand up. i say you can t be ill here. 
throughout the night when the troop be encamp by the whale boat a black figure dance in the strong moonlight on the sand bar and shout that khartoum the accurse one be dead be dead be dead that two steamer be rock stake on the nile outside the city and that of all their crew there remain not one. and khartoum be dead be dead be dead. 
but torpenhow take no heed. he be watch dick who call aloud to the restless nile for maisie and again maisie. 
behold a phenomenon say torpenhow rearrange the blanket. here be a man presumably human who mention the name of one woman only. and i ve see a good deal of delirium too. dick here s some fizzy drink. 
thank you maisie say dick. 
chapter iii. 
so he think he shall take to the sea again for one more cruise with his buccaneer to singe the beard of the king of spain and capture another dean of jaen and sell him in algiers. a dutch picture. longfellow. 
the soudan campaign and dick s break head have be some month end and mend and the central southern syndicate have pay dick a certain sum on account for work do which work they be careful to assure him be not altogether up to their standard. dick heave the letter into the nile at cairo cash the draft in the same town and bid a warm farewell to torpenhow at the station. 
i be go to lie up for a while and rest say torpenhow. i don t know where i shall live in london but if god bring u to meet we shall meet. 
be you starying here on the off chance of another row. there will be none till the southern soudan be reoccupied by our troop. mark that. 
good bye. bless you. come back when your money s spend. and give me your address. 
dick loiter in cairo alexandria ismailia and port say especially port say. there be iniquity in many part of the world and vice in all but the concentrate essence of all the iniquity and all the vice in all the continent find itself at port say. and through the heart of that sand border hell where the mirage flicker day long above the bitter lake move if you will only wait most of the men and woman you have know in this life. dick establish himself in quarter more riotous than respectable. he spend his evening on the quay and board many ship and saw very many friend gracious englishwoman with whom he have talk not too wisely in the veranda of shepherd s hotel hurry war correspondent skipper of the contract troop ship employ in the campaign army officer by the score and others of le reputable trade. 
he have choice of all the race of the east and west for study and the advantage of see his subject under the influence of strong excitement at the game table saloon dance hell and elsewhere. for recreation there be the straight vista of the canal the blaze sand the procession of ship and the white hospital where the english soldier lay. he strive to set down in black and white and colour all that providence send him and when that supply be end seek about for fresh material. it be a fascinate employment but it run away with his money and he have draw in advance the hundred and twenty pound to which he be entitle yearly. now i shall have to work and starve. think he and be address himself to this new fate when a mysterious telegram arrive from torpenhow in england which say come back quick. you have catch on. come. 
a large smile overspread his face. so soon. that s a good hear say he to himself. there will be an orgy to night. i ll stand or fall by my luck. faith it s time it come. he deposit half of his fund in the hand of his well know friend monsieur and madame binat and order himself a zanzibar dance of the fine. monsieur binat be shake with drink but madame smile sympathetically monsieur need a chair of course and of course monsieur will sketch. monsieur amuse himself strangely. 
binat raise a blue white face from a cot in the inner room. i understand he quaver. we all know monsieur. monsieur be an artist a i have be. dick nod. in the end say binat with gravity monsieur will descend alive into hell a i have descend. and he laugh. 
you must come to the dance too say dick. i shall want you. 
for my face. i know it would be so. for my face. my god. and for my degradation so tremendous. i will not. take him away. he be a devil. or at least do thou celeste demand of him more. the excellent binat begin to kick and scream. 
all thing be for sale in port say say madame. if my husband come it will be so much more. eh how you call alf a sovereign. 
the money be pay and the mad dance be hold at night in a wall courtyard at the back of madame binat s house. the lady herself in fade mauve silk always about to slide from her yellow shoulder play the piano and to the tin pot music of a western waltz the naked zanzibari girl dance furiously by the light of kerosene lamp. binat sit upon a chair and star with eye that saw nothing till the whirl of the dance and the clang of the rattle piano steal into the drink that take the place of blood in his vein and his face glisten. dick take him by the chin brutally and turn that face to the light. madame binat look over her shoulder and smile with many teeth. dick lean against the wall and sketch for an hour till the kerosene lamp begin to smell and the girl throw themselves pant on the hard beat grind. then he shut his book with a snap and move away binat pluck feebly at his elbow. show me he whimper. i too be once an artist even i. dick show him the rough sketch. be i that. he scream. will you take that away with you and show all the world that it be i binat. he moan and weep. 
monsieur ha pay for all say madame. to the pleasure of see monsieur again. 
the courtyard gate shut and dick hurry up the sandy street to the near gamble hell where he be well know. if the luck hold it s an omen. if i lose i must stay here. he place his money picturesquely about the board hardly dare to look at what he do. the luck hold. 
three turn of the wheel leave him rich by twenty pound and he go down to the ship to make friend with the captain of a decay cargo steamer who land him in london with few pound in his pocket than he care to think about. 
a thin gray fog hang over the city and the street be very cold. for summer be in england. 
it s a cheerful wilderness and it hasn t the knack of alter much dick think a he tramp from the dock westward. now what must i do. 
the pack house give no answer. dick look down the long lightless street and at the appal rush of traffic. oh you rabbit hutch. say he address a row of highly respectable semi detach residence. do you know what you ve get to do late on. you have to supply me with men servant and maid servant here he smack his lip and the peculiar treasure of king. meantime i ll clothe and boot and presently i will return and trample on you. he step forward energetically. he saw that one of his shoe be burst at the side. a he stoop to make investigation a man jostle him into the gutter. all right he say. 
that s another nick in the score. i ll jostle you late on. 
good clothe and boot be not cheap and dick leave his last shop with the certainty that he would be respectably array for a time but with only fifty shilling in his pocket. he return to street by the dock and lodge himself in one room where the sheet on the bed be almost audibly mark in case of theft and where nobody seem to go to bed at all. when his clothe arrive he seek the central southern syndicate for torpenhow s address and get it with the intimation that there be still some money wait for him. 
how much. say dick a one who habitually deal in million. 
between thirty and forty pound. if it would be any convenience to you of course we could let you have it at once. but we usually settle account monthly. 
if i show that i want anything now i m lose he say to himself. all i need i ll take late on. then aloud it s hardly worth while. and i m go to the country for a month too. wait till i come back and i ll see about it. 
but we trust mr. heldar that you do not intend to sever your connection with u. 
dick s business in life be the study of face and he watch the speaker keenly. that man mean something he say. i ll do no business till i ve see torpenhow. there s a big deal come. so he depart make no promise to his one little room by the dock. and that day be the seventh of the month and that month he reckon with awful distinctness have thirty one day in it. 
it be not easy for a man of catholic taste and healthy appetite to exist for twenty four day on fifty shilling. nor be it cheer to begin the experiment alone in all the loneliness of london. dick pay seven shilling a week for his lodge which leave him rather le than a shill a day for food and drink. naturally his first purchase be of the material of his craft. he have be without them too long. half a day s investigation and comparison bring him to the conclusion that sausage and mash potato twopence a plate be the best food. now sausage once or twice a week for breakfast be not unpleasant. a lunch even with mash potato they become monotonous. at dinner they be impertinent. at the end of three day dick loathe sausage and go forth pawn his watch to revel on sheep s head which be not a cheap a it look owe to the bone and the gravy. then he return to sausage and mash potato. then he confine himself entirely to mash potato for a day and be unhappy because of pain in his inside. then he pawn his waistcoat and his tie and think regretfully of money throw away in time past. there be few thing more edify unto art than the actual belly pinch of hunger and dick in his few walk abroad he do not care for exercise. it raise desire that could not be satisfy find himself divide mankind into two class those who look a if they might give him something to eat and those who look otherwise. i never know what i have to learn about the human face before he think. and a a reward for his humility providence cause a cab driver at a sausage shop where dick feed that night to leave half eat a great chunk of bread. dick take it would have fight all the world for it possession and it cheer him. 
the month drag through at last and nearly prance with impatience he go to draw his money. then he hasten to torpenhow s address and smelt the smell of cook meat all along the corridor of the chamber. torpenhow be on the top floor and dick burst into his room to be receive with a hug which nearly crack his rib a torpenhow drag him tot he light and speak of twenty different thing in the same breath. 
but you re look tuck up he conclude. 
get anything to eat. say dick his eye roam round the room. 
i shall be have breakfast in a minute. what do you say to sausage. 
no anything but sausage. torp i ve be starve on that accurse horse flesh for thirty day and thirty night. 
now what lunacy ha be your late. 
dick speak of the last few week with unbridle speech. then he open his coat. there be no waistcoat below. i run it fine awfully fine but i ve just scrap through. 
you haven t much sense but you ve get a backbone anyhow. eat and talk afterwards. dick fell upon egg and bacon and gorge till he could gorge no more. torpenhow hand him a fill pipe and he smoke a men smoke who for three week have be deprive of good tobacco. 
ouf. say he. that s heavenly. well. 
why in the world didn t you come to me. 
couldn t. i owe you too much already old man. besides i have a sort of superstition that this temporary starvation that s what it be and it hurt would bring me luck late. it s over and do with now and none of the syndicate know how hard up i be. fire away. what s the exact state of affair a regard myself. 
you have my wire. you ve catch on here. people like your work immensely. i don t know why but they do. they say you have a fresh touch and a new way of draw thing. and because they re chiefly home breed english they say you have insight. you re want by half a dozen paper. you re want to illustrate book. 
dick grunt scornfully. 
you re want to work up your small sketch and sell them to the dealer. they seem to think the money sink in you be a good investment. 
good lord. who can account for the fathomless folly of the public. 
they re a remarkably sensible people. 
they be subject to fit if that s what you mean. and you happen to be the object of the late fit among those who be interest in what they call art. just now you re a fashion a phenomenon or whatever you please. i appear to be the only person who know anything about you here and i have be show the most useful men a few of the sketch you give me from time to time. those come after your work on the central southern syndicate appear to have do your business. you re in luck. 
huh. call it luck. do call it luck when a man ha be kick about the world like a dog wait for it to come. i ll luck em late on. i want a place to work first. 
come here say torpenhow cross the land. this place be a big box room really but it will do for you. there s your skylight or your north light or whatever window you call it and plenty of room to thrash about in and a bedroom beyond. what more do you need. 
good enough say dick look round the large room that take up a third of a top story in the rickety chamber overlook the thames. a pale yellow sun shine through the skylight and show the much dirt of the place. three step lead from the door to the land and three more to torpenhow s room. the well of the staircase disappear into darkness prick by tiny gas jet and there be sound of men talk and door slam seven flight below in the warm gloom. 
do they give you a free hand here. say dick cautiously. he be ishmael enough to know the value of liberty. 
anything you like. latch key and license unlimited. we be permanent tenant for the most part here. tisn t a place i would recommend for a young men s christian association but it will serve. i take these room for you when i wire. 
you re a great deal too kind old man. 
you didn t suppose you be go away from me do you. torpenhow put his hand on dick s shoulder and the two walk up and down the room henceforward to be call the studio in sweet and silent communion. they hear rap at torpenhow s door. that s some ruffian come up for a drink say torpenhow. and he raise his voice cheerily. there enter no one more ruffianly than a portly middle age gentleman in a satin face frockcoat. his lip be part and pale and there be deep pouch under the eye. 
weak heart say dick to himself and a he shake hand very weak heart. his pulse be shake his finger. 
the man introduce himself a the head of the central southern syndicate and one of the most ardent admirer of your work mr. 
heldar. i assure you in the name of the syndicate that we be immensely indebted to you. and i trust mr. heldar you win t forget that we be largely instrumental in bring you before the public. he pant because of the seven flight of stair. 
dick glance at torpenhow whose leave eyelid lay for a moment dead on his cheek. 
i shan t forget say dick every instinct of defence rouse in him. 
you ve pay me so well that i couldn t you know. by the way when i be settle in this place i should like to send and get my sketch. there must be nearly a hundred and fifty of them with you. 
that be er be what i come to speak about. i fear we can t allow it exactly mr. heldar. in the absence of any specify agreement the sketch be our property of course. 
do you mean to say that you be go to keep them. 
yes. and we hope to have your help on your own term mr. heldar to assist u in arrange a little exhibition which back by our name and the influence we naturally command among the press should be of material service to you. sketch such a yours. 
belong to me. you engage me by wire you pay me the low rate you dare. you can t mean to keep them. good god alive man they re all i ve get in the world. 
torpenhow watch dick s face and whistle. 
dick walk up and down think. he saw the whole of his little stock in trade the first weapon of his equipment annex at the outset of his campaign by an elderly gentleman whose name dick have not catch aright who say that he represent a syndicate which be a thing for which dick have not the least reverence. the injustice of the proceeding do not much move him. he have see the strong hand prevail too often in other place to be squeamish over the moral aspect of right and wrong. 
but he ardently desire the blood of the gentleman in the frockcoat and when he speak again and when he speak again it be with a strain sweetness that torpenhow know well for the begin of strife. 
forgive me sir but you have no no young man who can arrange this business with me. 
i speak for the syndicate. i see no reason for a third party to. 
you will in a minute. be good enough to give back my sketch. 
the man star blankly at dick and then at torpenhow who be lean against the wall. he be not use to ex employee who order him to be good enough to do thing. 
yes it be rather a cold blood steal say torpenhow critically. but i m afraid i be very much afraid you ve strike the wrong man. be careful dick. remember this isn t the soudan. 
consider what service the syndicate have do you in put your name before the world. 
this be not a fortunate remark. it remind dick of certain vagrant year live out in loneliness and strife and unsatisfied desire. the memory do not contrast well with the prosperous gentleman who propose to enjoy the fruit of those year. 
i don t know quite what to do with you begin dick meditatively. of course you re a thief and you ought to be half kill but in your case you d probably die. i don t want you dead on this floor and besides it s unlucky just a one s move in. don t hit sir. you ll only excite yourself. 
he put one hand on the man s forearm and run the other down the plump body beneath the coat. my goodness. say he to torpenhow and this gray oaf dare to be a thief. i have see an esneh camel driver have the black hide take off his body in strip for steal half a pound of wet date and he be a tough a whipcord. this thing soft all over like a woman. 
there be few thing more poignantly humiliate than be handle by a man who doe not intend to strike. the head of the syndicate begin to breathe heavily. dick walk round him paw him a a cat paw a soft hearth rug. then he trace with his forefinger the leaden pouch underneath the eye and shake his head. you be go to steal my thing mine mine mine. you who don t know when you may die. 
write a note to your office you say you re the head of it and order them to give torpenhow my sketch every one of them. wait a minute. your hand s shake. now. he thrust a pocket book before him. the note be write. torpenhow take it and depart without a word while dick walk round and round the spellbind captive give him such advice a he conceive best for the welfare of his soul. when torpenhow return with a gigantic portfolio he hear dick say almost soothingly now i hope this will be a lesson to you. and if you worry me when i have settle down to work with any nonsense about action for assault believe me i ll catch you and manhandle you and you ll die. you haven t very long to live anyhow. go. imshi vootsak get out. the man depart stagger and daze. dick draw a long breath. phew. what a lawless lot these people be. the first thing a poor orphan meet be gang robbery organise burglary. think of the hideous blackness of that man s mind. be my sketch all right torp. 
yes. one hundred and forty seven of them. well i must say dick you ve begin well. 
he be interfere with me. it only mean a few pound to him but it be everything to me. i don t think he ll bring an action. i give him some medical advice gratis about the state of his body. it be cheap at the little flurry it cost him. now let s look at my thing. 
two minute late dick have throw himself down on the floor and be deep in the portfolio chuckle lovingly a he turn the drawing over and think of the price at which they have be buy. 
the afternoon be well advance when torpenhow come to the door and saw dick dance a wild saraband under the skylight. 
i build good than i know torp he say without stop the dance. 
they re good. they re damn good. they ll go like flame. i shall have an exhibition of them on my own brazen hook. and that man would have cheat me out of it. do you know that i m sorry now that i didn t actually hit him. 
go out say torpenhow go out and pray to be deliver from the sin of arrogance which you never will be. bring your thing up from whatever place you re stay in and we ll try to make this barn a little more shipshape. 
and then oh then say dick still caper we will spoil the egyptian. 
chapter iv. 
the wolf cub at even lay hide in the corn when the smoke of the cook hang gray. he know where the doe make a couch for her fawn and he look to his strength for his prey. 
but the moon sweep the smoke wreath away. 
and he turn from his meal in the villager s close and he bay to the moon a she rise. 
in seonee. 
well and how doe success taste. say torpenhow some three month late. he have just return to chamber after a holiday in the country. 
good say dick a he sit lick his lip before the easel in the studio. 
i want more heap more. the lean year have pass and i approve of these fat one. 
be careful old man. that way lie bad work. 
torpenhow be sprawl in a long chair with a small fox terrier asleep on his chest while dick be prepare a canvas. a dais a background and a lay figure be the only fix object in the place. they rise from a wreck of oddment that begin with felt cover water bottle belt and regimental badge and end with a small bale of second hand uniform and a stand of mix arm. the mark of muddy foot on the dais show that a military model have just go away. the watery autumn sunlight be fall and shadow sit in the corner of the studio. 
yes say dick deliberately i like the power. i like the fun. i like the fuss. and above all i like the money. i almost like the people who make the fuss and pay the money. almost. but they re a queer gang an amazingly queer gang. 
they have be good enough to you at any rate. than tin pot exhibition of your sketch must have pay. do you see that the paper call it the wild work show. 
never mind. i sell every shred of canvas i want to. and on my word i believe it be because they believe i be a self teach flagstone artist. 
i should have get good price if i work my thing on wool or scratch them on camel bone instead of use mere black and white and colour. verily they be a queer gang these people. limit isn t the word to describe em. i meet a fellow the other day who tell me that it be impossible that shadow on white sand should be blue ultramarine a they be. i find out late that the man have be a far a brighton beach. but he know all about art confound him. he give me a lecture on it and recommend me to go to school to learn technique. i wonder what old kami would have say to that. 
when be you under kami man of extraordinary beginning. 
i study with him for two year in paris. he teach by personal magnetism. all he ever say be continuez me enfants and you have to make the best you could of that. he have a divine touch and he know something about colour. kami use to dream colour. i swear he could never have see the genuine article. but he evolve it. and it be good. 
recollect some of those view in the soudan. say torpenhow with a provoke drawl. 
dick squirm in his place. don t. it make me want to get out there again. what colour that be. opal and umber and amber and claret and brick red and sulphur cockatoo crest sulphur against brown with a nigger black rock stick up in the middle of it all and a decorative frieze of camel festoon in front of a pure pale turquoise sky. he begin to walk up and down. and yet you know if you try to give these people the thing a god give it key down to their comprehension and accord to the power he ha give you. 
modest man. go on. 
half a dozen epicene young pagan who haven t even be to algiers will tell you first that your notion be borrow and secondly that it isn t art. 
this come of my leave town for a month. dickie you ve be promenade among the toy shop and hear people talk. 
i couldn t help it say dick penitently. you weren t here and it be lonely these long evening. a man can t work for ever. 
a man might have go to a pub and get decently drink. 
i wish i have. but i forgather with some men of sort. they say they be artist and i know some of them could draw but they wouldn t draw. they give me tea tea at five in the afternoon. and talk about art and the state of their soul. a if their soul matter. i ve hear more about art and see le of her in the last six month than in the whole of my life. do you remember cassavetti who work for some continental syndicate out with the desert column. he be a regular christmas tree of contraption when he take the field in full fig with his water bottle lanyard revolver write case housewife gig lamp and the lord know what all. he use to fiddle about with em and show u how they work. but he never seem to do much except fudge his report from the nilghai. see. 
dear old nilghai. he s in town fat than ever. he ought to be up here this even. i see the comparison perfectly. you should have keep clear of all that man millinery. serf you right. and i hope it will unsettle your mind. 
it win t. it ha teach me what art holy sacred art mean. 
you ve learn something while i ve be away. what be art. 
give em what they know and when you ve do it once do it again. 
dick drag forward a canvas lay face to the wall. here s a sample of real art. it s go to be a facsimile reproduction for a weekly. i call it his last shoot. it s work up from the little water colour i make outside el maghrib. well i lure my model a beautiful rifleman up here with drink. i drored him and i redrored him and i redrored him and i make him a flush dishevel bedevil scallawag with his helmet at the back of his head and the live fear of death in his eye and the blood ooze out of a cut over his ankle bone. he wasn t pretty but he be all soldier and very much man. 
once more modest child. 
dick laugh. well it s only to you i m talk. i do him just a well a i know how make allowance for the slickness of oil. then the art manager of that abandon paper say that his subscriber wouldn t like it. it be brutal and coarse and violent man be naturally gentle when he s fight for his life. they want something more restful with a little more colour. i could have say a good deal but you might a well talk to a sheep a an art manager. i take my last shoot back. behold the result. i put him into a lovely red coat without a speck on it. that be art. i polish his boot observe the high light on the toe. that be art. i clean his rifle rifle be always clean on service because that be art. 
i pipeclayed his helmet pipeclay be always use on active service and be indispensable to art. i shave his chin i wash his hand and give him an air of fat peace. result military tailor s pattern plate. price thank heaven twice a much a for the first sketch which be moderately decent. 
and do you suppose you re go to give that thing out a your work. 
why not. i do it. alone i do it in the interest of sacred home breed art and dickenson s weekly. 
torpenhow smoke in silence for a while. then come the verdict deliver from roll cloud. if you be only a mass of blather vanity dick i wouldn t mind i d let you go to the deuce on your own mahl stick. but when i consider what you be to me and when i find that to vanity you add the twopenny halfpenny pique of a twelve year old girl then i bestir myself in your behalf. thus. 
the canvas rip a torpenhow s boot foot shoot through it and the terrier jump down think rat be about. 
if you have any bad language to use use it. you have not. i continue. 
you be an idiot because no man bear of woman be strong enough to take liberty with his public even though they be which they ain t all you say they be. 
but they don t know any good. what can you expect from creature bear and breed in this light. dick point to the yellow fog. if they want furniture polish let them have furniture polish so long a they pay for it. 
they be only men and woman. you talk a if they be god. 
that sound very fine but it ha nothing to do with the case. they be they people you have to do work for whether you like it or not. they be your master. don t be deceive dickie you aren t strong enough to trifle with them or with yourself which be more important. 
moreover come back binkie. that red daub isn t go anywhere unless you take precious good care you will fall under the damnation of the check book and that s bad than death. you will get drink you re half drink already on easily acquire money. for that money and you own infernal vanity you be will to deliberately turn out bad work. you ll do quite enough bad work without know it. and dickie a i love you and a i know you love me i be not go to let you cut off your nose to spite your face for all the gold in england. that s settle. now swear. 
don t know say dick. i ve be try to make myself angry but i can t you re so abominably reasonable. there will be a row on dickenson s weekly i fancy. 
why the dickenson do you want to work on a weekly paper. it s slow bleed of power. 
it bring in the very desirable dollar say dick his hand in his pocket. 
torpenhow watch him with large contempt. why i think it be a man. say he. it s a child. 
no it isn t say dick wheel quickly. you ve no notion owhat the certainty of cash mean to a man who ha always want it badly. 
nothing will pay me for some of my life s joy. on that chinese pig boat for instance when we eat bread and jam for every meal because ho wang wouldn t allow u anything good and it all taste of pig chinese pig. i ve work for this i ve sweat and i ve starve for this line on line and month after month. and now i ve get it i be go to make the most of it while it last. let them pay they ve no knowledge. 
what doe your majesty please to want. you can t smoke more than you do. you win t drink. you re a gross feeder. and you dress in the dark by the look of you. you wouldn t keep a horse the other day when i suggest because you say it might fall lame and whenever you cross the street you take a hansom. even you be not foolish enough to suppose that theatre and all the live thing you can by thereabouts mean life. 
what earthly need have you for money. 
it s there bless it golden heart say dick. it s there all the time. 
providence ha send me nut while i have teeth to crack em with. i haven t yet find the nut i wish to crack but i m keep my teeth file. 
perhaps some day you and i will go for a walk round the wide earth. 
with no work to do nobody to worry u and nobody to compete with. you would be unfit to speak to in a week. besides i shouldn t go. i don t care to profit by the price of a man s soul for that s what it would mean. 
dick it s no use argue. you re a fool. 
don t see it. when i be on that chinese pig boat our captain get credit for save about twenty five thousand very seasick little pig when our old tramp of a steamer fell foul of a timber junk. now take those pig a a parallel. 
oh confound your parallel. whenever i try to improve your soul you always drag in some anecdote from your very shady past. pig aren t the british public. and self respect be self respect the world over. go out for a walk and try to catch some self respect. and i say if the nilghai come up this even can i show him your digging. 
surely. and dick depart to take counsel with himself in the rapidly gather london fog. 
half an hour after he have leave the nilghai labour up the staircase. he be the chief a he be the young of the war correspondent and his experience date from the birth of the needle gun. save only his ally keneu the great war eagle there be no man high in the craft than he and he always open his conversation with the news that there would be trouble in the balkan in the spring. torpenhow laugh a he enter. 
never mind the trouble in the balkan. those little state be always screech. you ve hear about dick s luck. 
yes. he ha be call up to notoriety hasn t he. i hope you keep him properly humble. he want suppress from time to time. 
he doe. he s begin to take liberty with what he think be his reputation. 
already. by jove he ha cheek. i don t know about his reputation but he ll come a cropper if he try that sort of thing. 
so i tell him. i don t think he belief it. 
they never do when they first start off. what s that wreck on the grind there. 
specimen of his late impertinence. torpenhow thrust the tear edge of the canvas together and show the well groom picture to the nilghai who look at it for a moment and whistle. 
it s a chromo say he a chromo litholeomargarine fake. what possess him to do it. and yet how thoroughly he ha catch the note that catch a public who think with their boot and read with their elbow. the cold blood insolence of the work almost save it. but he mustn t go on with this. hasn t he be praise and cocker up too much. you know these people here have no sense of proportion. they ll call him a second detaille and a third hand meissonier while his fashion last. it s windy diet for a colt. 
i don t think it affect dick much. you might a well call a young wolf a lion and expect him to take the compliment in exchange for a shin bone. 
dick s soul be in the bank. he s work for cash. 
now he ha throw up war work i suppose he doesn t see that the obligation of the service be just the same only the proprietor be change. 
how should he know. he think he be his own master. 
doe he. i could undeceive him for his good if there s any virtue in print. he want the whiplash. 
lay it on with science then. i d flay him myself but i like him too much. 
i ve no scruple. he have the audacity to try to cut me out with a woman at cairo once. i forget that but i remember now. 
do he cut you out. 
you ll see when i have deal with him. but after all what s the good. leave him alone and he ll come home if he ha any stuff in him drag or wag his tail behind him. there s more in a week of life than in a lively weekly. none the le i ll slate him. i ll slate him ponderously in the cataclysm. 
good luck to you. but i fancy nothing short of a crowbar would make dick wince. his soul seem to have be fire before we come across him. 
he s intensely suspicious and utterly lawless. 
matter of temper say the nilghai. it s the same with horse. some you wallop and they work some you wallop and they jib and some you wallop and they go out for a walk with their hand in their pocket. 
that s exactly what dick ha do say torpenhow. wait till he come back. in the meantime you can begin your slat here. i ll show you some of his last and bad work in his studio. 
dick have instinctively seek run water for a comfort to his mood of mind. he be lean over the embankment wall watch the rush of the thames through the arch of westminster bridge. he begin by think of torpenhow s advice but a of custom lose himself in the study of the face flock past. some have death write on their feature and dick marvel that they could laugh. others clumsy and coarse build for the most part be alight with love. others be merely draw and line with work. but there be something dick know to be make out of them all. the poor at least should suffer that he might learn and the rich should pay for the output of his learn. thus his credit in the world and his cash balance at the bank would be increase. so much the good for him. he have suffer. now he would take toll of the ill of others. 
the fog be drive apart for a moment and the sun shine a blood red wafer on the water. dick watch the spot till he hear the voice of the tide between the pier die down like the wash of the sea at low tide. a girl hard press by her lover shout shamelessly ah get away you beast. and a shift of the same wind that have open the fog drive across dick s face the black smoke of a river steamer at her berth below the wall. he be blind for the moment then spin round and find himself face to face with maisie. 
there be no mistake. the year have turn the child to a woman but they have not alter the dark gray eye the thin scarlet lip or the firmly model mouth and chin. and that all should be a it be of old she wear a closely fit gray dress. 
since the human soul be finite and not in the least under it own command dick advance say halloo. after the manner of schoolboy and maisie answer oh dick be that you. then against his will and before the brain newly release from consideration of the cash balance have time to dictate to the nerve every pulse of dick s body throb furiously and his palate dry in his mouth. the fog shut down again and maisie s face be pearl white through it. no word be speak but dick fell into step at her side and the two pace the embankment together keep the step a perfectly a in their afternoon excursion to the mud flat. then dick a little hoarsely what ha happen to amomma. 
he die dick. not cartridge. over eat. he be always greedy. isn t it funny. 
yes. no. do you mean amomma. 
ye e. no. this. where have you come from. 
over there he point eastward through the fog. and you. 
oh i m in the north the black north across all the park. i be very busy. 
what do you do. 
i paint a great deal. that s all i have to do. 
why what s happen. you have three hundred a year. 
i have that still. i be paint. that s all. 
be you alone then. 
there s a girl live with me. don t walk so fast dick. you re out of step. 
then you notice it too. 
of course i do. you re always out of step. 
so i be. i m sorry. you go on with the paint. 
of course. i say i should. i be at the slade then at merton s in st. 
john s wood the big studio then i pepper pot i mean i go to the national and now i m work under kami. 
but kami be in paris surely. 
no. he ha his teach studio in vitry sur marne. i work with him in the summer and i live in london in the winter. i m a householder. 
do you sell much. 
now and again but not often. there be my bus. i must take it or lose half an hour. good bye dick. 
good bye maisie. win t you tell me where you live. i must see you again. and perhaps i could help you. i i paint a little myself. 
i may be in the park to morrow if there be no work light. i walk from the marble arch down and back again. that be my little excursion. but of course i shall see you again. she step into the omnibus and be swallow up by the fog. 
well i be damn. exclaim dick and return to the chamber. 
torpenhow and the nilghai find him sit on the step to the studio door repeat the phrase with an awful gravity. 
you ll be more damn when i m do with you say the nilghai upheave his bulk from behind torpenhow s shoulder and wave a sheaf of half dry manuscript. dick it be of common report that you be suffer from swell head. 
halloo nilghai. back again. how be the balkan and all the little balkan. one side of your face be out of draw a usual. 
never mind that. i be commission to smite you in print. torpenhow refuse from false delicacy. i ve be overhaul the pot boiler in your studio. they be simply disgraceful. 
oho. that s it be it. if you think you can slate me you re wrong. you can only describe and you need a much room to turn in on paper a a p. and o. cargo boat. but continue and be swift. i m go to bed. 
h m. h m. h m. the first part only deal with your picture. here s the peroration. for work do without conviction for power waste on triviality for labour expend with levity for the deliberate purpose of win the easy applause of a fashion drive public that s his last shoot second edition. go on. 
public there remain but one end the oblivion that be precede by toleration and cenotaphed with contempt. from that fate mr. heldar ha yet to prove himself out of danger. 
wow wow wow wow wow. say dick profanely. it s a clumsy end and vile journalese but it s quite true. and yet he spring to his foot and snatch at the manuscript you scar deboshed batter old gladiator. you re send out when a war begin to minister to the blind brutal british public s bestial thirst for blood. they have no arena now but they must have special correspondent. you re a fat gladiator who come up through a trap door and talk of what he s see. you stand on precisely the same level a an energetic bishop an affable actress a devastate cyclone or mine own sweet self. and you presume to lecture me about my work. nilghai if it be worth while i d caricature you in four paper. 
the nilghai wince. he have not think of this. 
a it be i shall take this stuff and tear it small so. the manuscript flutter in slip down the dark well of the staircase. go home nilghai say dick. go home to your lonely little bed and leave me in peace. i be about to turn in till to morrow. 
why it isn t seven yet. say torpenhow with amazement. 
it shall be two in the morning if i choose say dick back to the studio door. i go to grapple with a serious crisis and i shan t want any dinner. 
the door shut and be lock. 
what can you do with a man like that. say the nilghai. 
leave him alone. he s a mad a a hatter. 
at eleven there be a kick on the studio door. be the nilghai with you still. say a voice from within. then tell him he might have condense the whole of his lumber nonsense into an epigram. only the free be bond and only the bond be free. tell him he s an idiot torp and tell him i m another. 
all right. come out and have supper. you re smoke on an empty stomach. 
there be no answer. 
chapter v. 
i have a thousand men say he to wait upon my will and tower nine upon the tyne and three upon the till. 
and what care i for you men say she or tower from tyne to till sith you must go with me she say to wait upon my will. 
sir hoggie and the fairy. 
next morning torpenhow find dick sink in deep repose of tobacco. 
well madman how d you feel. 
i don t know. i m try to find out. 
you have much good do some work. 
maybe. but i m in no hurry. i ve make a discovery. torp there s too much ego in my cosmos. 
not really. be this revelation due to my lecture or the nilghai s. 
it come to me suddenly all on my own account. much too much ego. and now i m go to work. 
he turn over a few half finish sketch drum on a new canvas clean three brush set binkie to bite the toe of the lay figure rattle through his collection of arm and accoutrement and then go out abruptly declare that he have do enough for the day. 
this be positively indecent say torpenhow and the first time that dick ha ever break up a light morning. perhaps he ha find out that he ha a soul or an artistic temperament or something equally valuable. 
that come of leave him alone for a month. perhaps he ha be go out of evening. i must look to this. he ring for the bald head old housekeeper whom nothing could astonish or annoy. 
beeton do mr. heldar dine out at all while i be out of town. 
never lay be dress clothe out once sir all the time. mostly e din in. but e bring some most remarkable young gentleman up ere after theatre once or twice. remarkable fancy they be. you gentleman on the top floor doe very much a you like but it do seem to me sir droppin a walkin stick down five flight o stair an then goin down four abreast to pick it up again at half past two in the mornin singin bring back the whiskey willie darlin not once or twice but score o time isn t charity to the other tenant. what i say be do a you would be do by. that s my motto. 
of course. of course. i m afraid the top floor isn t the quiet in the house. 
i make no complaint sir. i have speak to mr. heldar friendly an he laugh an do me a picture of the missis that be a good a a colour print. it asn t the high shine of a photograph but what i say be never look a gift horse in the mouth. mr. heldar s dress clothe aven t be on him for week. 
then it s all right say torpenhow to himself. orgy be healthy and dick ha a head of his own but when it come to woman make eye i m not so certain binkie never you be a man little dorglums. they re contrary brute and they do thing without any reason. 
dick have turn northward across the park but he be walk in the spirit on the mud flat with maisie. he laugh aloud a he remember the day when he have deck amomma s horn with the ham frill and maisie white with rage have cuff him. how long those four year seem in review and how closely maisie be connect with every hour of them. storm across the sea and maisie in a gray dress on the beach sweep her drench hair out of her eye and laugh at the homeward race of the fish smack. hot sunshine on the mud flat and maisie sniff scornfully with her chin in the air. maisie fly before the wind that thresh the foreshore and drive the sand like small shoot about her ear. maisie very compose and independent tell lie to mr. jennett while dick support her with coarse perjury. maisie pick her way delicately from stone to stone a pistol in her hand and her teeth firm set. and maisie in a gray dress sit on the grass between the mouth of a cannon and a nod yellow sea poppy. the picture pass before him one by one and the last stay the long. 
dick be perfectly happy with a quiet peace that be a new to his mind a it be foreign to his experience. it never occur to him that there might be other call upon his time than loaf across the park in the forenoon. 
there s a good work light now he say watch his shadow placidly. some poor devil ought to be grateful for this. and there s maisie. 
she be walk towards him from the marble arch and he saw that no mannerism of her gait have be change. it be good to find her still maisie and so to speak his next door neighbour. no greet pass between them because there have be none in the old day. 
what be you do out of your studio at this hour. say dick a one who be entitle to ask. 
idle. just idle. i get angry with a chin and scrap it out. then i leave it in a little heap of paint chip and come away. 
i know what palette knife mean. what be the piccy. 
a fancy head that wouldn t come right horrid thing. 
i don t like work over scrap paint when i m do flesh. the grain come up woolly a the paint dry. 
not if you scrape properly. maisie wave her hand to illustrate her method. there be a dab of paint on the white cuff. dick laugh. 
you re a untidy a ever. 
that come well from you. look at your own cuff. 
by jove yes. it s bad than yours. i don t think we ve much alter in anything. let s see though. he look at maisie critically. the pale blue haze of an autumn day creep between the tree trunk of the park and make a background for the gray dress the black velvet toque above the black hair and the resolute profile. 
no there s nothing change. how good it be. d you remember when i fasten your hair into the snap of a hand bag. 
maisie nod with a twinkle in her eye and turn her full face to dick. 
wait a minute say he. that mouth be down at the corner a little. 
who s be worry you maisie. 
no one but myself. i never seem to get on with my work and yet i try hard enough and kami say. 
continuez mademoiselle. continuez toujours me enfants. kami be depress. i beg your pardon. 
yes that s what he say. he tell me last summer that i be do good and he d let me exhibit this year. 
not in this place surely. 
of course not. the salon. 
you fly high. 
i ve be beat my wing long enough. where do you exhibit dick. 
i don t exhibit. i sell. 
what be your line then. 
haven t you hear. dick s eye open. be this thing possible. he cast about for some mean of conviction. they be not far from the marble arch. come up oxford street a little and i ll show you. 
a small knot of people stand round a print shop that dick know well. 
some reproduction of my work inside he say with suppress triumph. never before have success taste so sweet upon the tongue. you see the sort of thing i paint. d you like it. 
maisie look at the wild whirl rush of a field battery go into action under fire. two artillery men stand behind her in the crowd. 
they ve chuck the off lead orse say one to the other. e s tear up awful but they re makin good time with the others. that lead driver drive good nor you tom. see ow cunnin e s nursin be orse. 
number three ll be off the limber next jolt be the answer. 
no e win t. see ow be foot s brace against the iron. e s all right. 
dick watch maisie s face and swell with joy fine rank vulgar triumph. she be more interest in the little crowd than in the picture. 
that be something that she could understand. 
and i want it so. oh i do want it so. she say at last under her breath. 
me all me. say dick placidly. look at their face. it hit em. they don t know what make their eye and mouth open. but i know. and i know my work s right. 
yes. i see. oh what a thing to have come to one. 
come to one indeed. i have to go out and look for it. what do you think. 
i call it success. tell me how you get it. 
they return to the park and dick deliver himself of the saga of his own do with all the arrogance of a young man speak to a woman. 
from the begin he tell the tale the i i i s flash through the record a telegraph pole fly past the traveller. maisie listen and nod her head. the history of strife and privation do not move her a hair s breadth. at the end of each canto he would conclude and that give me some notion of handle colour or light or whatever it might be that he have set out to pursue and understand. he lead her breathless across half the world speak a he have never speak in his life before. 
and in the flood tide of his exaltation there come upon him a great desire to pick up this maiden who nod her head and say i understand. go on to pick her up and carry her away with him because she be maisie and because she understand and because she be his right and a woman to be desire above all woman. 
then he check himself abruptly. and so i take all i want he say and i have to fight for it. now you tell. 
maisie s tale be almost a gray a her dress. it cover year of patient toil back by savage pride that would not be break think dealer laugh and fog delay work and kami be unkind and even sarcastic and girl in other studio be painfully polite. it have a few bright spot in picture accept at provincial exhibition but it wind up with the oft repeat wail and so you see dick i have no success though i work so hard. 
then pity fill dick. even thus have maisie speak when she could not hit the breakwater half an hour before she have kiss him. and that have happen yesterday. 
never mind he say. i ll tell you something if you ll believe it. the word be shape themselves of their own accord. the whole thing lock stock and barrel isn t worth one big yellow sea poppy below fort keel. 
maisie flush a little. it s all very well for you to talk but you ve have the success and i haven t. 
let me talk then. i know you ll understand. maisie dear it sound a bite absurd but those ten year never exist and i ve come back again. it really be just the same. can t you see. you re alone now and i m alone. 
what s the use of worry. come to me instead darling. 
maisie poke the gravel with her parasol. they be sit on a bench. 
i understand she say slowly. but i ve get my work to do and i must do it. 
do it with me then dear. i win t interrupt. 
no i couldn t. it s my work mine mine mine. i ve be alone all my life in myself and i m not go to belong to anybody except myself. i remember thing a well a you do but that doesn t count. we be baby then and we didn t know what be before u. dick don t be selfish. i think i see my way to a little success next year. don t take it away from me. 
i beg your pardon darling. it s my fault for speak stupidly. i can t expect you to throw up all your life just because i m back. i ll go to my own place and wait a little. 
but dick i don t want you to go out of my life now you ve just come back. 
i m at your order. forgive me. dick devour the trouble little face with his eye. there be triumph in them because he could not conceive that maisie should refuse sooner or late to love him since he love her. 
it s wrong of me say maisie more slowly than before. it s wrong and selfish. but oh i ve be so lonely. no you misunderstand. now i ve see you again it s absurd but i want to keep you in my life. 
naturally. we belong. 
we don t. but you always understand me and there be so much in my work that you could help me in. you know thing and the way of do thing. you must. 
i do i fancy or else i don t know myself. then you win t care to lose sight of me altogether and you want me to help you in your work. 
yes. but remember dick nothing will ever come of it. that s why i feel so selfish. can t thing stay a they be. i do want your help. 
you shall have it. but let s consider. i must see your pic first and overhaul your sketch and find out about your tendency. you should see what the paper say about my tendency. then i ll give you good advice and you shall paint accord. isn t that it maisie. 
again there be triumph in dick s eye. 
it s too good of you much too good. because you be console yourself with what will never happen and i know that and yet i want to keep you. don t blame me late please. 
i m go into the matter with my eye open. moreover the queen can do no wrong. it isn t your selfishness that impress me. it s your audacity in propose to make use of me. 
pooh. you re only dick and a print shop. 
very good. that s all i be. but maisie you believe don t you that i love you. i don t want you to have any false notion about brother and sister. 
maisie look up for a moment and drop her eye. 
it s absurd but i believe. i wish i could send you away before you get angry with me. but but the girl that life with me be red haired and an impressionist and all our notion clash. 
so do ours i think. never mind. three month from to day we shall be laugh at this together. 
maisie shake her head mournfully. i know you wouldn t understand and it will only hurt you more when you find out. look at my face dick and tell me what you see. 
they stand up and face each other for a moment. the fog be gather and it stifle the roar of the traffic of london beyond the railing. dick bring all his painfully acquire knowledge of face to bear on the eye mouth and chin underneath the black velvet toque. 
it s the same maisie and it s the same me he say. we ve both nice little will of our own and one or other of u ha to be break. now about the future. i must come and see your picture some day i suppose when the red haired girl be on the premise. 
sunday be my best time. you must come on sunday. there be such heap of thing i want to talk about and ask your advice about. now i must get back to work. 
try to find out before next sunday what i be say dick. don t take my word for anything i ve tell you. good bye darling and bless you. 
maisie steal away like a little gray mouse. dick watch her till she be out of sight but he do not hear her say to herself very soberly i m a wretch a horrid selfish wretch. but it s dick and dick will understand. 
no one ha yet explain what actually happen when an irresistible force meet the immovable post though many have think deeply even a dick think. he try to assure himself that maisie would be lead in a few week by his mere presence and discourse to a good way of think. then he remember much too distinctly her face and all that be write on it. 
if i know anything of head he say there s everything in that face but love. i shall have to put that in myself. and that chin and mouth win t be win for nothing. but she s right. she know what she want and she s go to get it. what insolence. me. of all the people in the wide world to use me. but then she s maisie. there s no get over that fact. and it s good to see her again. this business must have be simmer at the back of my head for year. she ll use me a i use binat at port say. 
she s quite right. it will hurt a little. i shall have to see her every sunday like a young man court a housemaid. she s sure to come around. and yet that mouth isn t a yield mouth. i shall be want to kiss her all the time and i shall have to look at her picture i don t even know what sort of work she doe yet and i shall have to talk about art woman s art. therefore particularly and perpetually damn all variety of art. it do me a good turn once and now it s in my way. i ll go home and do some art. 
half way to the studio dick be smite with a terrible think. the figure of a solitary woman in the fog suggest it. 
she s all alone in london with a red haired impressionist girl who probably ha the digestion of an ostrich. most red haired people have. 
maisie s a bilious little body. they ll eat like lone woman meal at all hour and tea with all meal. i remember how the student in paris use to pig along. she may fall ill at any minute and i shan t be able to help. 
whew. this be ten time bad than own a wife. 
torpenhow enter the studio at dusk and look at dick with eye full of the austere love that spring up between men who have tug at the same oar together and be yoke by custom and use and the intimacy of toil. this be a good love and since it allow and even encourage strife recrimination and brutal sincerity doe not die but grow and be proof against any absence and evil conduct. 
dick be silent after he hand torpenhow the fill pipe of council. he think of maisie and her possible need. it be a new thing to think of anybody but torpenhow who could think for himself. here at last be an outlet for that cash balance. he could adorn maisie barbarically with jewelry a thick gold necklace round that little neck bracelet upon the round arm and ring of price upon her hand the cool temperate ringless hand that he have take between his own. it be an absurd think for maisie would not even allow him to put one ring on one finger and she would laugh at golden trapping. it would be good to sit with her quietly in the dusk his arm around her neck and her face on his shoulder a befit husband and wife. torpenhow s boot creak that night and his strong voice jar. dick s brow contract and he murmur an evil word because he have take all his success a a right and part payment for past discomfort and now he be check in his stride by a woman who admit all the success and do not instantly care for him. 
i say old man say torpenhow who have make one or two vain attempt at conversation i haven t put your back up by anything i ve say lately have i. 
you. no. how could you. 
liver out of order. 
the truly healthy man doesn t know he ha a liver. i m only a bite worry about thing in general. i suppose it s my soul. 
the truly healthy man doesn t know he ha a soul. what business have you with luxury of that kind. 
it come of itself. who s the man that say that we re all island shout lie to each other across sea of misunderstand. 
he s right whoever he be except about the misunderstand. i don t think we could misunderstand each other. 
the blue smoke curl back from the ceiling in cloud. then torpenhow insinuatingly dick be it a woman. 
be hang if it s anything remotely resemble a woman. and if you begin to talk like that i ll hire a red brick studio with white paint trimming and begonia and petunia and blue hungarias to play among three and sixpenny pot palm and i ll mount all my pic in aniline dye plush plaster and i ll invite every woman who maunder over what her guide book tell her be art and you shall receive em torp in a snuff brown velvet coat with yellow trouser and an orange tie. you ll like that. 
too thin dick. a good man than you once deny with curse and swear. you ve overdo it just a he do. it s no business of mine of course but it s comfort to think that somewhere under the star there s save up for you a tremendous thrash. whether it ll come from heaven or earth i don t know but it s bind to come and break you up a little. you want hammer. 
dick shiver. all right say he. when this island be disintegrate it will call for you. 
i shall come round the corner and help to disintegrate it some more. 
we re talk nonsense. come along to a theatre. 
chapter vi. 
and you may lead a thousand men nor ever draw the rein but ere ye lead the faery queen twill burst your heart in twain. 
he ha slip his foot from the stirrup bar the bridle from his hand and he be bind by hand and foot to the queen o faery land. 
sir hoggie and the fairy. 
some week late on a very foggy sunday dick be return across the park to his studio. this he say be evidently the thrash that torp mean. it hurt more than i expect. but the queen can do no wrong. and she certainly ha some notion of draw. 
he have just finish a sunday visit to maisie always under the green eye of the red haired impressionist girl whom he learn to hate at sight and be tingle with a keen sense of shame. sunday after sunday put on his best clothe he have walk over to the untidy house north of the park first to see maisie s picture and then to criticise and advise upon them a he realise that they be production on which advice would not be waste. sunday after sunday and his love grow with each visit he have be compel to cram his heart back from between his lip when it prompt him to kiss maisie several time and very much indeed. sunday after sunday the head above the heart have warn him that maisie be not yet attainable and that it would be good to talk a connectedly a possible upon the mystery of the craft that be all in all to her. therefore it be his fate to endure weekly torture in the studio build out over the clammy back garden of a frail stuffy little villa where nothing be ever in it right place and nobody every call to endure and to watch maisie move to and fro with the teacup. he abhor tea but since it give him a little long time in her presence he drink it devoutly and the red haired girl sit in an untidy heap and eye him without speak. she be always watch him. 
once and only once when she have leave the studio maisie show him an album that hold a few poor cutting from provincial paper the brief of hurry note on some of her picture send to outlying exhibition. dick stoop and kiss the paint smudge thumb on the open page. oh my love my love he mutter do you value these thing. chuck em into the waste paper basket. 
not till i get something good say maisie shut the book. 
then dick move by no respect for his public and a very deep regard for the maiden do deliberately propose in order to secure more of these covet cutting that he should paint a picture which maisie should sign. 
that s childish say maisie and i didn t think it of you. it must be my work. mine mine mine. 
go and design decorative medallion for rich brewer house. you be thoroughly good at that. dick be sick and savage. 
good thing than medallion dick be the answer in tone that recall a gray eye atom s fearless speech to mr. jennett. dick would have abase himself utterly but that other girl trail in. 
next sunday he lay at maisie s foot small gift of pencil that could almost draw of themselves and colour in whose permanence he believe and he be ostentatiously attentive to the work in hand. it demand among other thing an exposition of the faith that be in him. 
torpenhow s hair would have stand on end have he hear the fluency with which dick preach his own gospel of art. 
a month before dick would have be equally astonish. but it be maisie s will and pleasure and he drag his word together to make plain to her comprehension all that have be hide to himself of the why and wherefore of work. there be not the least difficulty in do a thing if you only know how to do it. the trouble be to explain your method. 
i could put this right if i have a brush in my hand say dick despairingly over the model of a chin that maisie complain would not look flesh it be the same chin that she have scrap out with the palette knife but i find it almost impossible to teach you. there s a queer grin dutch touch about your paint that i like. but i ve a notion that you re weak in draw. you foreshorten a though you never use the model and you ve catch kami s pasty way of deal with flesh in shadow. then again though you don t know it yourself you shirk hard work. suppose you spend some of your time on line lone. line doesn t allow of shirk. oil do and three square inch of flashy tricky stuff in the corner of a pic sometimes carry a bad thing off a i know. that s immoral. do line work for a little while and then i can tell more about your power a old kami use to say. 
maisie protest. she do not care for the pure line. 
i know say dick. you want to do your fancy head with a bunch of flower at the base of the neck to hide bad model. the red haired girl laugh a little. you want to do landscape with cattle knee deep in grass to hide bad draw. you want to do a great deal more than you can do. you have sense of colour but you want form. colour s a gift put it aside and think no more about it but form you can be drill into. 
now all your fancy head and some of them be very good will keep you exactly where you be. with line you must go forward or backward and it will show up all your weakness. 
but other people begin maisie. 
you mustn t mind what other people do. if their soul be your soul it would be different. you stand and fall by your own work remember and it s waste of time to think of any one else in this battle. 
dick pause and the long that have be so resolutely put away come back into his eye. he look at maisie and the look ask a plainly a word be it not time to leave all this barren wilderness of canvas and counsel and join hand with life and love. 
maisie assent to the new programme of school so adorably that dick could hardly restrain himself from pick her up then and there and carry her off to the near registrar s office. it be the implicit obedience to the speak word and the blank indifference to the unspoken desire that baffle and buffet his soul. he hold authority in that house authority limit indeed to one half of one afternoon in seven but very real while it last. maisie have learn to appeal to him on many subject from the proper pack of picture to the condition of a smoky chimney. the red haired girl never consult him about anything. 
on the other hand she accept his appearance without protest and watch him always. he discover that the meal of the establishment be irregular and fragmentary. they depend chiefly on tea pickle and biscuit a he have suspect from the begin. the girl be suppose to market week and week about but they live with the help of a charwoman a casually a the young raven. maisie spend most of her income on model and the other girl revel in apparatus a refine a her work be rough. arm with knowledge dear buy from the dock dick warn maisie that the end of semi starvation mean the cripple of power to work which be considerably bad than death. 
maisie take the warn and give more think to what she eat and drink. when his trouble return upon him a it generally do in the long winter twilight the remembrance of that little act of domestic authority and his coercion with a hearth brush of the smoky draw room chimney sting dick like a whip lash. 
he conceive that this memory would be the extreme of his suffering till one sunday the red haired girl announce that she would make a study of dick s head and that he would be good enough to sit still and quite a an afterthought look at maisie. he sit because he could not well refuse and for the space of half an hour he reflect on all the people in the past whom he have lay open for the purpose of his own craft. he remember binat most distinctly that binat who have once be an artist and talk about degradation. 
it be the mere monochrome rough in of a head but it present the dumb wait the long and above all the hopeless enslavement of the man in a spirit of bitter mockery. 
i ll buy it say dick promptly at your own price. 
my price be too high but i dare say you ll be a grateful if the wet sketch flutter from the girl s hand and fell into the ash of the studio stave. when she pick it up it be hopelessly smudge. 
oh it s all spoil. say maisie. and i never saw it. be it like. 
thank you say dick under his breath to the red haired girl and he remove himself swiftly. 
how that man hate me. say the girl. and how he love you maisie. 
what nonsense. i know dick s very fond of me but he have his work to do and i have mine. 
yes he be fond of you and i think he know there be something in impressionism after all. maisie can t you see. 
see. see what. 
nothing. only i know that if i could get any man to look at me a that man look at you i d i don t know what i d do. but he hate me. oh how he hate me. 
she be not altogether correct. dick s hatred be temper with gratitude for a few moment and then he forget the girl entirely. only the sense of shame remain and he be nurse it across the park in the fog. there ll be an explosion one of these day he say wrathfully. but it isn t maisie s fault. she s right quite right a far a she know and i can t blame her. this business ha be go on for three month nearly. 
three month. and it cost me ten year knock about to get at the notion the mere raw notion of my work. that s true. but then i didn t have pin draw pin and palette knife stick into me every sunday. 
oh my little darling if ever i break you somebody will have a very bad time of it. no she win t. i d be a big a fool about her a i be now. i ll poison that red haired girl on my wed day she s unwholesome and now i ll pas on these present bad time to torp. 
torpenhow have be move to lecture dick more than once lately on the sin of levity and dick and listen and reply not a word. in the week between the first few sunday of his discipline he have fling himself savagely into his work resolve that maisie should at least know the full stretch of his power. then he have teach maisie that she must not pay the least attention to any work outside her own and maisie have obey him all too well. she take his counsel but be not interest in his picture. 
your thing smell of tobacco and blood she say once. can t you do anything except soldier. 
i could do a head of you that would startle you think dick this be before the red haired girl have bring him under the guillotine but he only say i be very sorry and harrow torpenhow s soul that even with blasphemy against art. late insensibly and to a large extent against his own will he cease to interest himself in his own work. 
for maisie s sake and to soothe the self respect that it seem to him he lose each sunday he would not consciously turn out bad stuff but since maisie do not care even for his best it be good not to do anything at all save wait and mark time between sunday and sunday. torpenhow be disgust a the week go by fruitless and then attack him one sunday even when dick felt utterly exhaust after three hour bite self restraint in maisie s presence. there be language and torpenhow withdraw to consult the nilghai who have come it to talk continental politics. 
bone idle be he. careless and touch in the temper. say the nilghai. 
it isn t worth worry over. dick be probably play the fool with a woman. 
isn t that bad enough. 
no. she may throw him out of gear and knock his work to piece for a while. she may even turn up here some day and make a scene on the staircase. one never know. but until dick speak of his own accord you have good not touch him. he be no easy temper man to handle. 
no. i wish he be. he be such an aggressive cocksure you be damn fellow. 
he ll get that knock out of him in time. he must learn that he can t storm up and down the world with a box of moist tube and a slick brush. 
you re fond of him. 
i d take any punishment that s in store for him if i could. but the bad of it be no man can save his brother. 
no and the worse of it be there be no discharge in this war. dick must learn his lesson like the rest of u. talk of war there ll be trouble in the balkan in the spring. 
that trouble be long come. i wonder if we could drag dick out there when it come off. 
dick enter the room soon afterwards and the question be put to him. 
not good enough he say shortly. i m too comf y where i be. 
surely you aren t take all the stuff in the paper seriously. say the nilghai. your vogue will be end in le than six month the public will know your touch and go on to something new and where will you be then. 
here in england. 
when you might be do decent work among u out there. nonsense. i shall go the keneu will be there torp will be there cassavetti will be there and the whole lot of u will be there and we shall have a much a ever we can do with unlimited fight and the chance for you of see thing that would make the reputation of three verestchagins. 
um. say dick pull at his pipe. 
you prefer to stay here and imagine that all the world be gap at your picture. just think how full an average man s life be of his own pursuit and pleasure. when twenty thousand of him find time to look up between mouthful and grunt something about something they aren t the least interest in the net result be call fame reputation or notoriety accord to the taste and fancy of the speller my lord. 
i know that a well a you do. give me credit for a little gumption. 
be hang if i do. 
be hang then. you probably will be for a spy by excite turk. 
heigh ho. i m weary dead weary and virtue ha go out of me. dick drop into a chair and be fast asleep in a minute. 
that s a bad sign say the nilghai in an undertone. 
torpenhow pick the pipe from the waistcoat where it be begin to burn and put a pillow behind the head. we can t help. we can t help he say. it s a good ugly sort of old cocoanut and i m fond of it. there s the scar of the wipe he get when he be cut over in the square. 
shouldn t wonder if that ha make him a trifle mad. 
i should. he s a most businesslike madman. 
then dick begin to snore furiously. 
oh here no affection can stand this sort of thing. wake up dick and go and sleep somewhere else if you intend to make a noise about it. 
when a cat ha be out on the tile all night say the nilghai in his beard i notice that she usually sleep all day. this be natural history. 
dick stagger away rub his eye and yawn. in the night watch he be overtake with an idea so simple and so luminous that he wonder he have never conceive it before. it be full of craft. he would seek maisie on a week day would suggest an excursion and would take her by train to fort keel over the very grind that they two have tread together ten year ago. 
a a general rule he explain to his chin lather reflection in the morning it isn t safe to cross an old trail twice. thing remind one of thing and a cold wind get up and you feel say. but this be an exception to every rule that ever be. i ll go to maisie at once. 
fortunately the red haired girl be out shop when he arrive and maisie in a paint spatter blouse be war with her canvas. she be not please to see him. for week day visit be a stretch of the bond. and it need all his courage to explain his errand. 
i know you ve be work too hard he conclude with an air of authority. if you do that you ll break down. you have much good come. 
where. say maisie wearily. she have be stand before her easel too long and be very tire. 
anywhere you please. we ll take a train to morrow and see where it stop. we ll have lunch somewhere and i ll bring you back in the even. 
if there s a good work light to morrow i lose a day. maisie balance the heavy white chestnut palette irresolutely. 
dick bite back an oath that be hurry to his lip. he have not yet learn patience with the maiden to whom her work be all in all. 
you ll lose ever so many more dear if you use every hour of work light. overwork s only murderous idleness. don t be unreasonable. i ll call for you to morrow after breakfast early. 
but surely you be go to ask. 
no i be not. i want you and nobody else. besides she hate me a much a i hate her. she win t care to come. to morrow then. and pray that we get sunshine. 
dick go away delight and by consequence do no work whatever. 
he strangle a wild desire to order a special train but buy a great gray kangaroo cloak line with glossy black marten and then retire into himself to consider thing. 
i m go out for the day to morrow with dick say maisie to the red haired girl when the latter return tire from market in the edgware road. 
he deserve it. i shall have the studio floor thoroughly scrub while you re away. it s very dirty. 
maisie have enjoy no sort of holiday for month and look forward to the little excitement but not without misgiving. 
there s nobody nice than dick when he talk sensibly she though but i m sure he ll be silly and worry me and i m sure i can t tell him anything he d like to hear. if he d only be sensible i should like him so much good. 
dick s eye be full of joy when he make his appearance next morning and saw maisie gray ulstered and black velvet hat stand in the hallway. palace of marble and not sordid imitation of grain wood be surely the fit background for such a divinity. the red haired girl draw her into the studio for a moment and kiss her hurriedly. 
maisie s eyebrow climb to the top of her forehead. she be altogether unused to these demonstration. mind my hat she say hurry away and run down the step to dick wait by the hansom. 
be you quite warm enough. be you sure you wouldn t like some more breakfast. put the cloak over you knee. 
i m quite comf y thank. where be we go dick. oh do stop sing like that. people will think we re mad. 
let em think if the exertion doesn t kill them. they don t know who we be and i m sure i don t care who they be. my faith maisie you re look lovely. 
maisie star directly in front of her and do not reply. the wind of a keen clear winter morning have put colour into her cheek. overhead the creamy yellow smoke cloud be thin away one by one against a pale blue sky and the improvident sparrow break off from water spout committee and cab rank cabal to clamour of the come of spring. 
it will be lovely weather in the country say dick. 
but where be we go. 
wait and see. 
the stop at victoria and dick seek ticket. for le than half the fraction of an instant it occur to maisie comfortably settle by the wait room fire that it be much more pleasant to send a man to the book office than to elbow one s own way through the crowd. dick put her into a pullman solely on account of the warmth there. and she regard the extravagance with grave scandalise eye a the train move out into the country. 
i wish i know where we be go she repeat for the twentieth time. 
the name of a well remember station flash by towards the end of the run and maisie be delight. 
oh dick you villain. 
well i think you might like to see the place again. you haven t be here since the old time have you. 
no. i never care to see mr. jennett again. and she be all that be ever there. 
not quite. look out a minute. there s the windmill above the potato field. they haven t build villa there yet. d you remember when i shut you up in it. 
yes. how she beat you for it. i never tell it be you. 
she guess. i jam a stick under the door and tell you that i be bury amomma alive in the potato and you believe me. you have a trust nature in those day. 
they laugh and lean to look out identify ancient landmark with many reminiscence. dick fix his weather eye on the curve of maisie s cheek very near his own and watch the blood rise under the clear skin. he congratulate himself upon his cunning and look that the even would bring him a great reward. 
when the train stop they go out to look at an old town with new eye. first but from a distance they regard the house of mr. jennett. 
suppose she should come out now what would you do. say dick with mock terror. 
i should make a face. 
show then say dick drop into the speech of childhood. 
maisie make that face in the direction of the mean little villa and dick laugh. 
this be disgraceful say maisie mimic mr. jennett s tone. 
maisie you run in at once and learn the collect gospel and epistle for the next three sunday. after all i ve teach you too and three help every sunday at dinner. dick s always lead you into mischief. if you aren t a gentleman dick you might at least. 
the sentence end abruptly. maisie remember when it have last be use. 
try to behave like one say dick promptly. quite right. now we ll get some lunch and go on to fort keel unless you d rather drive there. 
we must walk out of respect to the place. how little change it all be. 
they turn in the direction of the sea through unaltered street and the influence of old thing lay upon them. presently they pass a confectioner s shop much consider in the day when their joint pocket money amount to a shill a week. 
dick have you any penny. say maisie half to herself. 
only three. and if you think you re go to have two of em to buy peppermint with you re wrong. she say peppermint aren t ladylike. 
again they laugh and again the colour come into maisie s cheek a the blood boil through dick s heart. after a large lunch they go down to the beach and to fort keel across the waste wind bite land that no builder have think it worth his while to defile. the winter breeze come in from the sea and sing about their ear. 
maisie say dick your nose be get a crude prussian blue at the tip. 
i ll race you a far a you please for a much a you please. 
she look round cautiously and with a laugh set off swiftly a the ulster allow till she be out of breath. 
we use to run mile she pant. it s absurd that we can t run now. 
old age dear. this it be to get fat and sleek in town. when i wish to pull you hair you generally run for three mile shriek at the top of your voice. i ought to know because those shriek of yours be mean to call up mr. jennett with a cane and. 
dick i never get you a beat on purpose in my life. 
no of course you never do. good heaven. look at the sea. 
why it s the same a ever. say maisie. 
torpenhow have gather from mr. beeton that dick properly dress and shave have leave the house at half past eight in the morning with a travel rug over his arm. the nilghai roll in at mid day for chess and polite conversation. 
it s bad than anything i imagine say torpenhow. 
oh the everlasting dick i suppose. you fuss over him like a hen with one chick. let him run riot if he think it ll amuse him. you can whip a young pup off feather but you can t whip a young man. 
it isn t a woman. it s one woman. and it s a girl. 
where s your proof. 
he get up and go out at eight this morning get up in the middle of the night by jove. a thing he never doe except when he s on service. 
even then remember we have to kick him out of his blanket before the fight begin at el maghrib. it s disgust. 
it look odd. but maybe he s decide to buy a horse at last. he might get up for that mightn t he. 
buy a blaze wheelbarrow. he d have tell u if there be a horse in the wind. it s a girl. 
don t be certain. perhaps it s only a marry woman. 
dick ha some sense of humour if you haven t. who get up in the gray dawn to call on another man s wife. it s a girl. 
let it be a girl then. she may teach him that there s somebody else in the world besides himself. 
she ll spoil his hand. she ll waste his time and she ll marry him and ruin his work for ever. he ll be a respectable marry man before we can stop him and he ll ever go on the long trail again. 
all quite possible but the earth win t spin the other way when that happen. no. ho. i d give something to see dick go woo with the boy. don t worry about it. these thing be with allah and we can only look on. get the chessman. 
the red haired girl be lie down in her own room star at the ceiling. the footstep of people on the pavement sound a they grow indistinct in the distance like a many time repeat kiss that be all one long kiss. her hand be by her side and they open and shut savagely from time to time. 
the charwoman in charge of the scrub of the studio knock at her door. beg y pardon miss but in cleanin of a floor there s two not to say three kind of soap which be yaller an mottle an disinfectink. 
now jist before i take my pail into the passage i though it would be pre aps jest a well if i be to come up ere an ask you what sort of soap you be wishful that i should use on them board. the yaller soap miss. 
there be nothing in the speech to have cause the paroxysm of fury that drive the red haired girl into the middle of the room almost shout do you suppose i care what you use. any kind will do. any kind. 
the woman flee and the red haired girl look at her own reflection in the glass for an instant and cover her face with her hand. it be a though she have shout some shameless secret aloud. 
chapter vii. 
rose red and rose white pluck i for my love s delight. 
she would none of all my posy bid me gather her blue rose. 
half the world i wander through seek where such flower grow. half the world unto my quest answer but with laugh and jest. 
it may be beyond the grave she shall find what she would have. 
mine be but an idle quest rose white and red be best. blue rose. 
the sea have not change. it water be low on the mud bank and the marazion bell buoy clank and swing in the tide way. on the white beach sand dry stump of sea poppy shiver and chatter. 
i don t see the old breakwater say maisie under her breath. 
let s be thankful that we have a much a we have. i don t believe they ve mount a single new gun on the fort since we be here. come and look. 
they come to the glacis of fort keel and sit down in a nook shelter from the wind under the tar throat of a forty pounder cannon. 
now if ammoma be only here. say maisie. 
for a long time both be silent. then dick take maisie s hand and call her by her name. 
she shake her head and look out to sea. 
maisie darling doesn t it make any difference. 
no. between clench teeth. i d i d tell you if it do. but it doesn t oh dick please be sensible. 
don t you think that it ever will. 
no i m sure it win t. 
why. 
maisie rest her chin on her hand and still regard the sea speak hurriedly i know what you want perfectly well but i can t give it to you dick. it isn t my fault. indeed it isn t. if i felt that i could care for any one but i don t feel that i care. i simply don t understand what the feel mean. 
be that true dear. 
you ve be very good to me dickie. and the only way i can pay you back be by speak the truth. i daren t tell a fib. i despise myself quit enough a it be. 
what in the world for. 
because because i take everything that you give me and i give you nothing in return. it s mean and selfish of me and whenever i think of it it worry me. 
understand once for all then that i can manage my own affair and if i choose to do anything you aren t to blame. you haven t a single thing to reproach yourself with darling. 
yes i have and talk only make it bad. 
then don t talk about it. 
how can i help myself. if you find me alone for a minute you be always talk about it. and when you aren t you look it. you don t know how i despise myself sometimes. 
great goodness. say dick nearly jump to his foot. speak the truth now maisie if you never speak it again. do i doe this worry bore you. 
no. it doe not. 
you d tell me if it do. 
i should let you know i think. 
thank you. the other thing be fatal. but you must learn to forgive a man when he s in love. he s always a nuisance. you must have know that. 
maisie do not consider the last question worth answer and dick be force to repeat it. 
there be other men of course. they always worry just when i be in the middle of my work and want me to listen to them. 
do you listen. 
at first. and they couldn t understand why i didn t care. and they use to praise my picture. and i think they mean it. i use to be proud of the praise and tell kami and i shall never forget once kami laugh at me. 
you don t like be laugh at maisie do you. 
i hate it. i never laugh at other people unless unless they do bad work. 
dick tell me honestly what you think of my picture generally of everything of mine that you ve see. 
honest honest and honest over. quote dick from a catchword of long ago. tell me what kami always say. 
maisie hesitate. he he say that there be feel in them. 
how dare you tell me a fib like that. remember i be under kami for two year. i know exactly what he say. 
it isn t a fib. 
it s bad. it s a half truth. kami say when he put his head on one side so il y a du sentiment mais il n y a pa de parti pris. he roll the r threateningly a kami use to do. 
yes that be what he say. and i m begin to think that he be right. 
certainly he be. dick admit that two people in the world could do and say no wrong. kami be the man. 
and now you say the same thing. it s so dishearten. 
i m sorry but you ask me to speak the truth. besides i love you too much to pretend about your work. it s strong it s patient sometimes not always and sometimes there s power in it but there s no special reason why it should be do at all. at least that s how it strike me. 
there s no special reason why anything in the world should ever be do. you know that a well a i do. i only want success. 
you re go the wrong way to get it then. hasn t kami ever tell you so. 
don t quote kami to me. i want to know what you think. my work s bad to begin with. 
i didn t say that and i don t think it. 
it s amateurish then. 
that it most certainly be not. you re a work woman darling to your boot heel and i respect you for that. 
you don t laugh at me behind my back. 
no dear. you see you be more to me than any one else. put this cloak thing round you or you ll get chill. 
maisie wrap herself in the soft marten skin turn the gray kangaroo fur to the outside. 
this be delicious she say rub her chin thoughtfully along the fur. 
well. why be i wrong in try to get a little success. 
just because you try. don t you understand darling. good work ha nothing to do with doesn t belong to the person who doe it. it s put into him or her from outside. 
but how doe that affect. 
wait a minute. all we can do be to learn how to do our work to be master of our material instead of servant and never to be afraid of anything. 
i understand that. 
everything else come from outside ourselves. very good. if we sit down quietly to work out notion that be send to u we may or we may not do something that isn t bad. a great deal depend on be master of the brick and mortar of the trade. but the instant we begin to think about success and the effect of our work to play with one eye on the gallery we lose power and touch and everything else. at least that s how i have find it. instead of be quiet and give every power you posse to your work you re fret over something which you can neither help no hind by a minute. see. 
it s so easy for you to talk in that way. people like what you do. don t you ever think about the gallery. 
much too often. but i m always punish for it by loss of power. it s a simple a the rule of three. if we make light of our work by use it for our own end our work will make light of u and a we re the weak we shall suffer. 
i don t treat my work lightly. you know that it s everything to me. 
of course. but whether you realise it or not you give two stroke for yourself to one for your work. it isn t your fault darling. i do exactly the same thing and know that i m do it. most of the french school and all the school here drive the student to work for their own credit and for the sake of their pride. i be tell that all the world be interest in my work and everybody at kami s talk turpentine and i honestly believe that the world need elevate and influence and all manner of impertinence by my brush. by jove i actually believe that. when my little head be burst with a notion that i couldn t handle because i hadn t sufficient knowledge of my craft i use to run about wonder at my own magnificence and get ready to astonish the world. 
but surely one can do that sometimes. 
very seldom with malice aforethought darling. and when it s do it s such a tiny thing and the world s so big and all but a millionth part of it doesn t care. maisie come with me and i ll show you something of the size of the world. one can no more avoid work than eat that go on by itself but try to see what you be work for. i know such little heaven that i could take you to island tuck away under the line. 
you sight them after week of crash through water a black a black marble because it s so deep and you sit in the fore chain day after day and see the sun rise almost afraid because the sea s so lonely. 
who be afraid. you or the sun. 
the sun of course. and there be noise under the sea and sound overhead in a clear sky. then you find your island alive with hot moist orchid that make mouth at you and can do everything except talk. 
there s a waterfall in it three hundred foot high just like a sliver of green jade lace with silver. and million of wild bee live up in the rock. and you can hear the fat cocoanut fall from the palm. and you order an ivory white servant to sling you a long yellow hammock with tassel on it like ripe maize and you put up your foot and hear the bee hum and the water fall till you go to sleep. 
can one work there. 
certainly. one must do something always. you hang your canvas up in a palm tree and let the parrot criticise. when the scuffle you heave a ripe custard apple at them and it burst in a lather of cream. there be hundred of place. come and see them. 
i don t quite like that place. it sound lazy. tell me another. 
what do you think of a big red dead city build of red sandstone with raw green aloe grow between the stone lie out neglect on honey colour sand. there be forty dead king there maisie each in a gorgeous tomb fine than all the others. you look at the palace and street and shop and tank and think that men must live there till you find a wee gray squirrel rub it nose all alone in the market place and a jewel peacock strut out of a carve doorway and spread it tail against a marble screen a fine pierce a point lace. then a monkey a little black monkey walk through the main square to get a drink from a tank forty foot deep. he slide down the creeper to the water s edge and a friend hold him by the tail in case he should fall in. 
be that all true. 
i have be there and see. then even come and the light change till it s just a though you stand in the heart of a king opal. a little before sundown a punctually a clockwork a big bristly wild boar with all his family follow trot through the city gate churn the foam on his tusk. you climb on the shoulder of a blind black stone god and watch that pig choose himself a palace for the night and stump in wag his tail. then the night wind get up and the sand move and you hear the desert outside the city sing now i lay me down to sleep and everything be dark till the moon rise. maisie darling come with me and see what the world be really like. it s very lovely and it s very horrible but i win t let you see anything horrid and it doesn t care your life or mine for picture or anything else except do it own work and make love. come and i ll show you how to brew sangaree and sling a hammock and oh thousand of thing and you ll see for yourself what colour mean and we ll find out together what love mean and then maybe we shall be allow to do some good work. come away. 
why. say maisie. 
how can you do anything until you have see everything or a much a you can. and besides darling i love you. come along with me. you have no business here. you don t belong to this place. you re half a gipsy your face tell that. and i even the smell of open water make me restless. come across the sea and be happy. 
he have rise to his foot and stand in the shadow of the gun look down at the girl. the very short winter afternoon have wear away and before they know the winter moon be walk the untroubled sea. long rule line of silver show where a ripple of the rise tide be turn over the mud bank. the wind have drop and in the intense stillness they could hear a donkey crop the frosty grass many yard away. a faint beat like that of a muffle drum come out of the moon haze. 
what s that. say maisie quickly. it sound like a heart beat. 
where be it. 
dick be so angry at this sudden wrench to his pleading that he could not trust himself to speak and in this silence catch the sound. maisie from her seat under the gun watch him with a certain amount of fear. 
she wish so much that he would be sensible and cease to worry her with over sea emotion that she both could and could not understand. she be not prepare however for the change in his face a he listen. 
it s a steamer he say a twin screw steamer by the beat. i can t make her out but she must be stand very close in shore. ah. a the red of a rocket streak the haze she s stand in to signal before she clear the channel. 
be it a wreck. say maisie to whom these word be a greek. 
dick s eye be turn to the sea. wreck. what nonsense. she s only report herself. red rocket forward there s a green light aft now and two red rocket from the bridge. 
what doe that mean. 
it s the signal of the cross key line run to australia. i wonder which steamer it be. the note of his voice have change. he seem to be talk to himself and maisie do not approve of it. the moonlight break the haze for a moment touch the black side of a long steamer work down channel. four mast and three funnel she s in deep draught too. that must be the barralong or the bhutia. no the bhutia ha a clopper bow. it s the barralong to australia. she ll lift the southern cross in a week lucky old tub. oh lucky old tub. 
he star intently and move up the slope of the fort to get a good view but the mist on the sea thicken again and the beat of the screw grow faint. maisie call to him a little angrily and he return still keep his eye to seaward. have you ever see the southern cross blaze right over your head. he ask. it s superb. 
no she say shortly and i don t want to. if you think it s so lovely why don t you go and see it yourself. 
she raise her face from the soft blackness of the marten skin about her throat and her eye shine like diamond. the moonlight on the gray kangaroo fur turn it to frost silver of the cold. 
by jove maisie you look like a little heathen idol tuck up there. the eye show that they do not appreciate the compliment. i m sorry he continue. the southern cross isn t worth look at unless someone help you to see. that steamer s out of hear. 
dick she say quietly suppose i be to come to you now be quiet a minute just a i be and care for you just a much a i do. 
not a a brother though you say you didn t in the park. 
i never have a brother. suppose i say take me to those place and in time perhaps i might really care for you what would you do. 
send you straight back to where you come from in a cab. no i wouldn t. i d let you walk. but you couldn t do it dear. and i wouldn t run the risk. you re worth wait for till you can come without reservation. 
do you honestly believe that. 
i have a hazy sort of idea that i do. ha it never strike you in that light. 
ye e. i feel so wicked about it. 
wicked than usual. 
you don t know all i think. it s almost too awful to tell. 
never mind. you promise to tell me the truth at least. 
it s so ungrateful of me but but though i know you care for me and i like to have you with me i d i d even sacrifice you if that would bring me what i want. 
my poor little darling. i know that state of mind. it doesn t lead to good work. 
you aren t angry. remember i do despise myself. 
i m not exactly flatter i have guess a much before but i m not angry. i m sorry for you. surely you ought to have leave a littleness like that behind you year ago. 
you ve no right to patronise me. i only want what i have work for so long. it come to you without any trouble and and i don t think it s fair. 
what can i do. i d give ten year of my life to get you what you want. 
but i can t help you. even i can t help. 
a murmur of dissent from maisie. he go on and i know by what you have just say that you re on the wrong road to success. it isn t get at by sacrifice other people i ve have that much knock into me. you must sacrifice yourself and live under order and never think for yourself and never have real satisfaction in your work except just at the begin when you re reach out after a notion. 
how can you believe all that. 
there s no question of belief or disbelief. that s the law and you take it or refuse it a you please. i try to obey but i can t and then my work turn bad on my hand. under any circumstance remember four fifth of everybody s work must be bad. but the remnant be worth the trouble for it s own sake. 
isn t it nice to get credit even for bad work. 
it s much too nice. but may i tell you something. it isn t a pretty tale but you re so like a man that i forget when i m talk to you. 
tell me. 
once when i be out in the soudan i go over some grind that we have be fight on for three day. there be twelve hundred dead. and we hadn t time to bury them. 
how ghastly. 
i have be at work on a big double sheet sketch and i be wonder what people would think of it at home. the sight of that field teach me a good deal. it look just like a bed of horrible toadstool in all colour and i d never see men in bulk go back to their beginning before. so i begin to understand that men and woman be only material to work with and that what they say or do be of no consequence. see. strictly speak you might just a well put your ear down to the palette to catch what your colour be say. 
dick that s disgraceful. 
wait a minute. i say strictly speak. unfortunately everybody must be either a man or a woman. 
i m glad you allow that much. 
in your case i don t. you aren t a woman. but ordinary people maisie must behave and work a such. that s what make me so savage. he hurl a pebble towards the sea a he speak. i know that it be outside my business to care what people say. i can see that it spoil my output if i listen to em. and yet confound it all another pebble fly seaward i can t help purr when i m rub the right way. even when i can see on a man s forehead that he be lie his way through a clump of pretty speech those lie make me happy and play the mischief with my hand. 
and when he doesn t say pretty thing. 
then beloved dick grin i forget that i be the steward of these gift and i want to make that man love and appreciate my work with a thick stick. it s too humiliate altogether. but i suppose even if one be an angel and paint human altogether from outside one would lose in touch what one gain in grip. 
maisie laugh at the idea of dick a an angel. 
but you seem to think she say that everything nice spoil your hand. 
i don t think. it s the law just the same a it be at mr. jennett s. 
everything that be nice doe spoil your hand. i m glad you see so clearly. 
i don t like the view. 
nor i. but have get order. what can do. be you strong enough to face it alone. 
i suppose i must. 
let me help darling. we can hold each other very tight and try to walk straight. we shall blunder horribly but it will be good than stumble apart. maisie can t you see reason. 
i don t think we should get on together. we should be two of a trade so we should never agree. 
how i should like to meet the man who make that proverb. he live in a cave and eat raw bear i fancy. i d make him chew his own arrow head. 
well. 
i should be only half marry to you. i should worry and fuss about my work a i do now. four day out of the seven i m not fit to speak to. 
you talk a if no one else in the world have ever use a brush. d you suppose that i don t know the feel of worry and bother and can t get at ness. you re lucky if you only have it four day out of the seven. what difference would that make. 
a great deal if you have it too. 
yes but i could respect it. another man might not. he might laugh at you. but there s no use talk about it. if you can think in that way you can t care for me yet. 
the tide have nearly cover the mud bank and twenty little ripple break on the beach before maisie choose to speak. 
dick she say slowly i believe very much that you be good than i be. 
this doesn t seem to bear on the argument but in what way. 
i don t quite know but in what you say about work and thing. and then you re so patient. yes you re good than i be. 
dick consider rapidly the murkiness of an average man s life. there be nothing in the review to fill him with a sense of virtue. he lift the hem of the cloak to his lip. 
why say maisie make a though she have not notice can you see thing that i can t. i don t believe what you believe. but you re right i believe. 
if i ve see anything god know i couldn t have see it but for you and i know that i couldn t have say it except to you. you seem to make everything clear for a minute. but i don t practice what i preach. you would help me. there be only u two in the world for all purpose and and you like to have me with you. 
of course i do. i wonder if you can realise how utterly lonely i be. 
darling i think i can. 
two year ago when i first take the little house i use to walk up and down the back garden try to cry. i never can cry. can you. 
it s some time since i try. what be the trouble. overwork. 
i don t know. but i use to dream that i have break down and have no money and be starve in london. i think about it all day and it frighten me oh how it frighten me. 
i know that fear. it s the most terrible of all. it wake me up in the night sometimes. you oughtn t to know anything about it. 
how do you know. 
never mind. be your three hundred a year safe. 
it s in consols. 
very well. if any one come to you and recommend a good investment even if i should come to you don t you listen. never shift the money for a minute and never lend a penny of it even to the red haired girl. 
don t scold me so. i m not likely to be foolish. 
the earth be full of men who d sell their soul for three hundred a year. and woman come and talk and borrow a five pound note here and a ten pound note there. and a woman ha no conscience in a money debt. 
stick to your money maisie for there s nothing more ghastly in the world than poverty in london. it s scar me. by jove it put the fear into me. and one oughtn t to be afraid of anything. 
to each man be appoint his particular dread the terror that if he doe not fight against it must cow him even to the loss of his manhood. dick s experience of the sordid misery of want have enter into the deep of him and l he might find virtue too easy that memory stand behind him tempt to shame when dealer come to buy his ware. a the nilghai quake against his will at the still green water of a lake or a mill dam a torpenhow flinch before any white arm that could cut or stab and loathe himself for flinch dick fear the poverty he have once taste half in jest. his burden be heavy than the burden of his companion. 
maisie watch the face work in the moonlight. 
you ve plenty of penny now she say soothingly. 
i shall never have enough he begin with vicious emphasis. then laugh i shall always be three penny short in my account. 
why threepence. 
i carry a man s bag once from liverpool street station to blackfriar s bridge. it be a sixpenny job you needn t laugh. indeed it be and i want the money desperately. he only give me threepence. and he hadn t even the decency to pay in silver. whatever money i make i shall never get that odd threepence out of the world. 
this be not language befit the man who have preach of the sanctity of work. it jar on maisie who prefer her payment in applause which since all men desire it must be of he right. she hunt for her little purse and gravely take out a threepenny bite. 
there it be she say. i ll pay you dickie. and don t worry any more. it isn t worth while. be you pay. 
i be say the very human apostle of fair craft take the coin. i m pay a thousand time and we ll close that account. it shall live on my watch chain. and you re an angel maisie. 
i m very cramp and i m feel a little cold. good gracious. the cloak be all white and so be your moustache. i never know it be so chilly. 
a light frost lay white on the shoulder of dick s ulster. he too have forget the state of the weather. they laugh together and with that laugh end all serious discourse. 
they run inland across the waste to warm themselves then turn to look at the glory of the full tide under the moonlight and the intense black shadow of the furze bush. it be an additional joy to dick that maisie could see colour even a he saw it could see the blue in the white of the mist the violet that be in gray paling and all thing else a they be not of one hue but a thousand. and the moonlight come into maisie s soul so that she usually reserve chatter of herself and of the thing she take interest in of kami wise of teacher and of the girl in the studio of the pole who will kill themselves with overwork if they be not check. of the french who talk at great length of much more than they will ever accomplish. of the slovenly english who toil hopelessly and cannot understand that inclination doe not imply power. of the american whose rasp voice in the hush of a hot afternoon strain tense draw nerve to break point and whose supper lead to indigestion. of tempestuous russian neither to hold nor to bind who tell the girl ghost story till the girl shriek. of stolid german who come to learn one thing and have master that much stolidly go away and copy picture for evermore. dick listen enrapture because it be maisie who speak. he know the old life. 
it hasn t change much he say. do they still steal colour at lunch time. 
not steal. attract be the word. of course they do. i m good i only attract ultramarine. but there be student who d attract flake white. 
i ve do it myself. you can t help it when the palette be hang up. 
every colour be common property once it run down even though you do start it with a drop of oil. it teach people not to waste their tube. 
i should like to attract some of your colour dick. perhaps i might catch your success with them. 
i mustn t say a bad word but i should like to. what in the world which you ve just miss a lovely chance of see doe success or want of success or a three storied success matter compare with no i win t open that question again. it s time to go back to town. 
i m sorry dick but. 
you re much more interest in that than you be in me. 
i don t know i don t think i be. 
what will you give me if i tell you a sure short cut to everything you want the trouble and the fuss and the tangle and all the rest. will you promise to obey me. 
of course. 
in the first place you must never forget a meal because you happen to be at work. you forget your lunch twice last week say dick at a venture for he know with whom he be deal. 
no no only once really. 
that s bad enough. and you mustn t take a cup of tea and a biscuit in place of a regular dinner because dinner happen to be a trouble. 
you re make fun of me. 
i never be more in earnest in my life. oh my love my love hasn t it dawn on you yet what you be to me. here s the whole earth in a conspiracy to give you a chill or run over you or drench you to the skin or cheat you out of your money or let you die of overwork and underfeeding and i haven t the mere right to look after you. why i don t even know if you have sense enough to put on warm thing when the weather s cold. 
dick you re the most awful boy to talk to really. how do you suppose i manage when you be away. 
i wasn t here and i didn t know. but now i m back i d give everything i have for the right of tell you to come in out of the rain. 
your success too. 
this time it cost dick a severe struggle to refrain from bad word. 
a mr. jennett use to say you re a trial maisie. you ve be cooped up in the school too long and you think every one be look at you. 
there aren t twelve hundred people in the world who understand picture. the others pretend and don t care. remember i ve see twelve hundred men dead in toadstool bed. it s only the voice of the tiny little fraction of people that make success. the real world doesn t care a tinker s doesn t care a bite. for aught you or i know every man in the world may be argue with a maisie of his own. 
poor maisie. 
poor dick i think. do you believe while he s fight for what s dear than his life he want to look at a picture. and even if he do and if all the world do and a thousand million people rise up and shout hymn to my honour and glory would that make up to me for the knowledge that you be out shop in the edgware road on a rainy day without an umbrella. now we ll go to the station. 
but you say on the beach persist maisie with a certain fear. 
dick groan aloud. yes i know what i say. my work be everything i have or be or hope to be to me and i believe i ve learn the law that govern it. but i ve some linger sense of fun leave though you ve nearly knock it out of me. i can just see that it isn t everything to all the world. do what i say and not what i do. 
maisie be careful not to reopen debatable matter and they return to london joyously. the terminus stop dick in the midst of an eloquent harangue on the beauty of exercise. he would buy maisie a horse such a horse a never yet bow head to bite would stable it with a companion some twenty mile from london and maisie solely for her health s sake should ride with him twice or thrice a week. 
that s absurd say she. it wouldn t be proper. 
now who in all london to night would have sufficient interest or audacity to call u two to account for anything we choose to do. 
maisie look at the lamp the fog and the hideous turmoil. dick be right. but horseflesh do not make for art a she understand it. 
you re very nice sometimes but you re very foolish more time. i m not go to let you give me horse or take you out of your way to night. i ll go home by myself. only i want you to promise me something. you win t think any more about that extra threepence will you. remember you ve be pay. and i win t allow you to be spiteful and do bad work for a little thing like that. you can be so big that you mustn t be tiny. 
this be turn the table with a vengeance. there remain only to put maisie into her hansom. 
good bye she say simply. you ll come on sunday. it ha be a beautiful day dick. why can t it be like this always. 
because love s like line work. you must go forward or backward. you can t stand still. by the way go on with your line work. good night and for my for my sake take care of yourself. 
he turn to walk home meditate. the day have bring him nothing that he hop for but surely this be worth many day it have bring him near to maisie. the end be only a question of time now and the prize well worth the wait. by instinct once more he turn to the river. 
and she understand at once he say look at the water. she find out my pet beset sin on the spot and pay it off. my god how she understand. and she say i be good than she be. good than she be. he laugh at the absurdity of the notion. i wonder if girl guess at one half a man s life. they can t or they wouldn t marry u. he take her gift out of his pocket and consider it in the light of a miracle and a pledge of the comprehension that one day would lead to perfect happiness. meantime maisie be alone in london with none to save her from danger. and the pack wilderness be very full of danger. 
dick make his prayer to fate disjointedly after the manner of the heathen a he throw the piece of silver into the river. if any evil be to befal let him bear the burden and let maisie go unscathed since the threepenny piece be dear to him of all his possession. it be a small coin in itself but maisie have give it and the thames hold it and surely the fate would be bribe for this once. 
the drown of the coin seem to cut him free from think of maisie for the moment. he take himself off the bridge and go whistle to his chamber with a strong yearn for some man talk and tobacco after his first experience of an entire day spend in the society of a woman. there be a strong desire at his heart when there rise before him an unsolicited vision of the barralong dip deep and sail free for the southern cross. 
chapter viii. 
and these two a i have tell you be the friend of hiawatha chibiabos the musician and the very strong man kwasind. 
hiawatha. 
torpenhow be page the last sheet of some manuscript while the nilghai who have come for chess and remain to talk tactic be read through the first part comment scornfully the while. 
it s picturesque enough and it s sketchy say he. but a a serious consideration of affair in eastern europe it s not worth much. 
it s off my hand at any rate. thirty seven thirty eight thirty nine slip altogether aren t there. that should make between eleven and twelve page of valuable misinformation. heigho. torpenhow shuffle the write together and hum. 
young lamb to sell young lamb to sell if i d a much money a i could tell i never would cry young lamb to sell. 
dick enter self conscious and a little defiant but in the best of temper with all the world. 
back at last. say torpenhow. 
more or le. what have you be do. 
work. dickie you behave a though the bank of england be behind you. here s sunday monday and tuesday go and you haven t do a line. it s scandalous. 
the notion come and go my child they come and go like our baccy he answer fill his pipe. moreover he stoop to thrust a spill into the grate apollo doe not always stretch his oh confound your clumsy jest nilghai. 
this be not the place to preach the theory of direct inspiration say the nilghai return torpenhow s large and workmanlike bellow to their nail on the wall. we believe in cobbler wax. la. where you sit down. 
if you weren t so big and fat say dick look round for a weapon i d. 
no skylark in my room. you two smash half my furniture last time you throw the cushion about. you might have the decency to say how d you do. to binkie. look at him. 
binkie have jump down from the sofa and be fawn round dick s knee and scratch at his boot. 
dear man. say dick snatch him up and kiss him on the black patch above his right eye. do ums be binks. do that ugly nilghai turn you off the sofa. bite him mr. binkie. he pitch him on the nilghai s stomach a the big man lay at ease and binkie pretend to destroy the nilghai inch by inch till a sofa cushion extinguish him and pant he stick out his tongue at the company. 
the binkie boy go for a walk this morning before you be up torp. 
i saw him make love to the butch at the corner when the shutter be be take down just a if he hadn t enough to eat in his own proper house say dick. 
binks be that a true bill. say torpenhow severely. the little dog retreat under the sofa cushion and show by the fat white back of him that he really have no further interest in the discussion. 
strike me that another disreputable dog go for a walk too say the nilghai. what make you get up so early. torp say you might be buy a horse. 
he know it would need three of u for a serious business like that. no i felt lonesome and unhappy so i go out to look at the sea and watch the pretty ship go by. 
where do you go. 
somewhere on the channel. progly or snigly or some water place be it name. i ve forget. but it be only two hour run from london and the ship go by. 
do you see anything you know. 
only the barralong outwards to australia and an odessa grain boat load down by the head. it be a thick day but the sea smelt good. 
wherefore put on one s best trouser to see the barralong. say torpenhow point. 
because i ve nothing except these thing and my paint dud. besides i want to do honour to the sea. 
do she make you feel restless. ask the nilghai keenly. 
crazy. don t speak of it. i m sorry i go. 
torpenhow and the nilghai exchange a look a dick stoop busy himself among the former s boot and tree. 
these will do he say at last. i can t say i think much of your taste in slipper but the fit s the thing. he slip his foot into a pair of sock like sambhur skin foot covering find a long chair and lay at length. 
they re my own pet pair torpenhow say. i be just go to put them on myself. 
all your reprehensible selfishness. just because you see me happy for a minute you want to worry me and stir me up. find another pair. 
good for you that dick can t wear your clothe torp. you two live communistically say the nilghai. 
dick never ha anything that i can wear. he s only useful to sponge upon. 
confound you have you be rummage round among my clothe then. say dick. i put a sovereign in the tobacco jar yesterday. how do you expect a man to keep his account properly if you. 
here the nilghai begin to laugh and torpenhow join him. 
hide a sovereign yesterday. you re no sort of financier. you lend me a five about a month back. do you remember. torpenhow say. 
yes of course. 
do you remember that i pay it you ten day late and you put it at the bottom of the tobacco. 
by jove do i. i think it be in one of my colour box. 
you think. about a week ago i go into your studio to get some baccy and find it. 
what do you do with it. 
take the nilghai to a theatre and feed him. 
you couldn t fee the nilghai under twice the money not though you give him army beef. well i suppose i should have find it out sooner or late. what be there to laugh at. 
you re a most amaze cuckoo in many direction say the nilghai still chuckle over the think of the dinner. never mind. we have both be work very hard and it be your unearned increment we spend and a you re only a loafer it didn t matter. 
that s pleasant from the man who be burst with my meat too. i ll get that dinner back one of these day. suppose we go to a theatre now. 
put our boot on and dress and wash. the nilghai speak very lazily. 
i withdraw the motion. 
suppose just for a change a a startle variety you know we that be to say we get our charcoal and our canvas and go on with our work. 
torpenhow speak pointedly but dick only wriggle his toe inside the soft leather moccasin. 
what a one ideaed clucker that be. if i have any unfinished figure on hand i haven t any model. if i have my model i haven t any spray and i never leave charcoal unfixed overnight. and if i have my spray and twenty photograph of background i couldn t do anything to night. i don t feel that way. 
binkie dog he s a lazy hog isn t he. say the nilghai. 
very good i will do some work say dick rise swiftly. i ll fetch the nungapunga book and we ll add another picture to the nilghai saga. 
aren t you worry him a little too much. ask the nilghai when dick have leave the room. 
perhaps but i know what he can turn out if he like. it make me savage to hear him praise for past work when i know what he ought to do. you and i be arrange for. 
by kismet and our own power more s the pity. i have dream of a good deal. 
so have i but we know our limitation now. i m dash if i know what dick s may be when he give himself to his work. that s what make me so keen about him. 
and when all s say and do you will be put aside quite rightly for a female girl. 
i wonder. where do you think he ha be to day. 
to the sea. didn t you see the look in his eye when he talk about her. he s a restless a a swallow in autumn. 
yes. but do he go alone. 
i don t know and i don t care but he ha the beginning of the go fever upon him. he want to up stake and move out. there s no mistake the sign. whatever he may have say before he ha the call upon him now. 
it might be his salvation torpenhow say. 
perhaps if you care to take the responsibility of be a saviour. 
dick return with the big clasp sketch book that the nilghai know well and do not love too much. in it dick have draw all manner of move incident experience by himself or relate to him by the others of all the four corner of the earth. but the wide range of the nilghai s body and life attract him most. when truth fail he fell back on fiction of the wild and represent incident in the nilghai s career that be unseemly his marriage with many african princess his shameless betrayal for arab wife of an army corp to the mahdi his tattooment by skilled operator in burmah his interview. and his fear. with the yellow headsman in the blood stain execution grind of canton and finally the passing of his spirit into the body of whale elephant and toucan. torpenhow from time to time have add rhyme description and the whole be a curious piece of art because dick decide have regard to the name of the book which be interpret mean naked that it would be wrong to draw the nilghai with any clothe on under any circumstance. consequently the last sketch represent that much endure man call on the war office to press his claim to the egyptian medal be hardly delicate. he settle himself comfortably on torpenhow s table and turn over the page. 
what a fortune you would have be to blake nilghai. he say. there s a succulent pinkness about some of these sketch that s more than life like. the nilghai surround while bath by the mahdieh that be found on fact eh. 
it be very nearly my last bath you irreverent dauber. ha binkie come into the saga yet. 
no. the binkie boy hasn t do anything except eat and kill cat. let s see. here you be a a stain glass saint in a church. deuced decorative line about your anatomy. you ought to be grateful for be hand down to posterity in this way. fifty year hence you ll exist in rare and curious facsimile at ten guinea each. what shall i try this time. the domestic life of the nilghai. 
hasn t get any. 
the undomestic life of the nilghai then. of course. mass meet of his wife in trafalgar square. that s it. they come from the end of the earth to attend nilghai s wed to an english bride. this shall be an epic. it s a sweet material to work with. 
it s a scandalous waste of time say torpenhow. 
don t worry. it keep one s hand in specially when you begin without the pencil. he set to work rapidly. that s nelson s column. presently the nilghai will appear shin up it. 
give him some clothe this time. 
certainly a veil and an orange wreath because he s be marry. 
gad that s clever enough. say torpenhow over his shoulder a dick bring out of the paper with three twirl of the brush a very fat back and labour shoulder press against stone. 
just imagine dick continue if we could publish a few of these dear little thing every time the nilghai subsidise a man who can write to give the public an honest opinion of my picture. 
well you ll admit i always tell you when i have do anything of that kind. i know i can t hammer you a you ought to be hammer so i give the job to another. young maclagan for instance. 
no o one half minute old man. stick your hand out against the dark of the wall paper you only burble and call me name. that leave shoulder s out of draw. i must literally throw a veil over that. where s my pen knife. well what about maclagan. 
i only give him his rid order to to lambast you on general principle for not produce work that will last. 
whereupon that young fool dick throw back his head and shut one eye a he shift the page under his hand be leave alone with an ink pot and what he conceive be his own notion go and spill them both over me in the paper. you might have engage a grow man for the business nilghai. how do you think the bridal veil look now torp. 
how the deuce do three dab and two scratch make the stuff stand away from the body a it doe. say torpenhow to whom dick s method be always new. 
it just depend on where you put em. if maclagan have know that much about his business he might have do good. 
why don t you put the damn dab into something that will stay then. insist the nilghai who have really take considerable trouble in hire for dick s benefit the pen of a young gentleman who devote most of his wake hour to an anxious consideration of the aim and end of art which he write be one and indivisible. 
wait a minute till i see how i be go to manage my procession of wife. you seem to have marry extensively and i must rough em in with the pencil medes parthian edomites. now set aside the weakness and the wickedness and and the fat headedness of deliberately try to do work that will live a they call it i m content with the knowledge that i ve do my best up to date and i shan t do anything like it again for some hour at least probably year. most probably never. 
what. any stuff you have in stock your best work. say torpenhow. 
anything you ve sell. say the nilghai. 
oh no. it isn t here and it isn t sell. good than that it can t be sell and i don t think any one know where it be. i m sure i don t. and yet more and more wife on the north side of the square. observe the virtuous horror of the lion. 
you may a well explain say torpenhow and dick lift his head from the paper. 
the sea remind me of it he say slowly. i wish it hadn t. it weigh some few thousand ton unless you cut it out with a cold chisel. 
don t be an idiot. you can t pose with u here say the nilghai. 
there s no pose in the matter at all. it s a fact. i be loaf from lima to auckland in a big old condemn passenger ship turn into a cargo boat and own by a second have italian firm. she be a crazy basket. we be cut down to fifteen ton of coal a day and we think ourselves lucky when we kick seven knot an hour out of her. then we use to stop and let the bearing cool down and wonder whether the crack in the shaft be spread. 
be you a steward or a stoker in those day. 
i be flush for the time be so i be a passenger or else i should have be a steward i think say dick with perfect gravity return to the procession of angry wife. i be the only other passenger from lima and the ship be half empty and full of rat and cockroach and scorpion. 
but what ha this to do with the picture. 
wait a minute. she have be in the china passenger trade and her low deck have bunk for two thousand pigtail. those be all take down and she be empty up to her nose and the light come through the port hole most annoy light to work in till you get use to them. i hadn t anything to do for week. the ship s chart be in piece and our skipper daren t run south for fear of catch a storm. so he do his best to knock all the society island out of the water one by one and i go into the low deck and do my picture on the port side a far forward in her a i could go. there be some brown paint and some green paint that they use for the boat and some black paint for ironwork and that be all i have. 
the passenger must have think you mad. 
there be only one and it be a woman. but it give me the notion of my picture. 
what be she like. say torpenhow. 
she be a sort of negroid jewess cuban. with moral to match. she couldn t read or write and she didn t want to but she use to come down and watch me paint and the skipper didn t like it because he be pay her passage and have to be on the bridge occasionally. 
i see. that must have be cheerful. 
it be the best time i ever have. to begin with we didn t know whether we should go up or go down any minute when there be a sea on. and when it be calm it be paradise. and the woman use to mix the paint and talk break english and the skipper use to steal down every few minute to the low deck because he say he be afraid of fire. so you see we could never tell when we might be catch and i have a splendid notion to work out in only three key of colour. 
what be the notion. 
two line in poe. 
neither the angle in heaven above nor the demon down under the sea can ever dissever my soul from the soul of the beautiful annabel lee. 
it come out of the sea all by itself. i draw that fight fight out in green water over the naked choke soul and the woman serve a the model for the devil and the angel both sea devil and sea angel and the soul half drown between them. it doesn t sound much but when there be a good light on the low deck it look very fine and creepy. it be seven by fourteen foot all do in shift light for shift light. 
do the woman inspire you much. say torpenhow. 
she and the sea between them immensely. there be a heap of bad draw in that picture. i remember i go out of my way to foreshorten for sheer delight of do it and i foreshorten damnably but for all that it s the best thing i ve ever do. and now i suppose the ship s break up or go down. whew. what a time that be. 
what happen after all. 
it all end. they be load her with wool when i leave the ship but even the stevedore keep the picture clear to the last. the eye of the demon scar them i honestly believe. 
and the woman. 
she be scar too when it be finish. she use to cross herself before she go down to look at it. just three colour and no chance of get any more and the sea outside and unlimited love make inside and the fear of death atop of everything else o lord. he have cease to look at the sketch but be star straight in front of him across the room. 
why don t you try something of the same kind now. say the nilghai. 
because those thing come not by fast and prayer. when i find a cargo boat and a jewess cuban and another notion and the same old life i may. 
you win t find them here say the nilghai. 
no i shall not. dick shut the sketch book with a bang. this room s a hot a an oven. open the window some one. 
he lean into the darkness watch the great darkness of london below him. the chamber stand much high than the other house command a hundred chimney crook cowl that look like sit cat a they swing round and other uncouth brick and zinc mystery support by iron stanchion and clamp by piece. northward the light of piccadilly circus and leicester square throw a copper colour glare above the black roof and southward by all the orderly light of the thames. a train roll out across one of the railway bridge and it thunder drown for a minute the dull roar of the street. the nilghai look at his watch and say shortly that s the paris night mail. you can book from here to st. petersburg if you choose. 
dick cram head and shoulder out of the window and look across the river. torpenhow come to his side while the nilghai pass over quietly to the piano and open it. binkie make himself a large a possible spread out upon the sofa with the air of one who be not to be lightly disturb. 
well say the nilghai to the two pair of shoulder have you never see this place before. 
a steam tug on the river hoot a she tow her barge to wharf. then the boom of the traffic come into the room. torpenhow nudge dick. 
good place to bank in bad place to bunk in dickie isn t it. 
dick s chin be in his hand a he answer in the word of a general not without fame still look out on the darkness my god what a city to loot. 
binkie find the night air tickle his whisker and sneeze plaintively. 
we shall give the binkie dog a cold say torpenhow. come in and they withdraw their head. you ll be bury in kensal green dick one of these day if it isn t close by the time you want to go there bury within two foot of some one else his wife and his family. 
allah forbid. i shall get away before that time come. give a man room to stretch his leg mr. binkie. dick fling himself down on the sofa and tweak binkie s velvet ear yawn heavily the while. 
you ll find that wardrobe case very much out of tune torpenhow say to the nilghai. it s never touch except by you. 
a piece of gross extravagance dick grunt. the nilghai only come when i m out. 
that s because you re always out. howl nilghai and let him hear. 
the life of the nilghai be fraud and slaughter his writing be water dickens and water. but the voice of the nilghai raise on high make even the mahdieh glad to die. 
dick quote from torpenhow s letterpress in the nungapunga book. 
how do they call moose in canada nilghai. 
the man laugh. sing be his one polite accomplishment a many press tent in far off land have know. 
what shall i sing. say he turn in the chair. 
moll roe in the morning say torpenhow at a venture. 
no say dick sharply and the nilghai open his eye. the old chanty whereof he among a very few possess all the word be not a pretty one but dick have hear it many time before without wince. without prelude he launch into that stately tune that call together and trouble the heart of the gipsy of the sea. 
farewell and adieu to you spanish lady farewell and adieu to you lady of spain. 
dick turn uneasily on the sofa for he could hear the bow of the barralong crash into the green sea on her way to the southern cross. 
then come the chorus. 
we ll rant and we ll roar like true british sailor we ll rant and we ll roar across the salt sea until we take sounding in the channel of old england from ushant to scilly ti forty five league. 
thirty five thirty five say dick petulantly. don t tamper with holy writ. go on nilghai. 
the first land we make it be call the deadman and they sing to the end very vigourously. 
that would be a good song if her head be turn the other way to the ushant light for instance say the nilghai. 
fling his arm about like a mad windmill say torpenhow. give u something else nilghai. you re in fine fog horn form tonight. 
give u the gang pilot. you sing that in the square the night before el maghrib. by the way i wonder how many of the chorus be alive to night say dick. 
torpenhow consider for a minute. by jove. i believe only you and i. 
raynor vicery and deenes all dead. vincent catch smallpox in cairo carry it here and die of it. yes only you and i and the nilghai. 
umph. and yet the men here who ve do their work in a well warm studio all their life with a policeman at each corner say that i charge too much for my picture. 
they be buy your work not your insurance policy dear child say the nilghai. 
i gamble with one to get at the other. don t preach. go on with the pilot. where in the world do you get that song. 
on a tombstone say the nilghai. on a tombstone in a distant land. i make it an accompaniment with heap of base chord. 
oh vanity. begin. and the nilghai begin. 
i have slip my cable messmate i m drift down with the tide i have my sail order while yet an anchor ride. 
and never on fair june morning have i put out to sea with clear conscience or good hope or a heart more light and free. 
shoulder to shoulder joe my boy into the crowd like a wedge strike with the hanger messmate but do not cut with the edge. 
cry charnock scatter the faggot double that brahmin in two the tall pale widow for me joe the little brown girl for you. 
young joe. you re near sixty. why be your hide so dark. katie ha soft fair blue eye who blacken yours. why hark. 
they be all sing now dick with the roar of the wind of the open sea about his ear a the deep bass voice let itself go. 
the morning gun ho steady. the arquebus to me. i ha sound the dutch high admiral s heart a my lead doth sound the sea. 
sound sound the gang float down with the tide moore me close to charnock next to my nut brown bride. 
my bless to kate at fairlight holwell my thank to you. steady. we steer for heaven through sand drift cold and blue. 
now what be there in that nonsense to make a man restless. say dick haul binkie from his foot to his chest. 
it depend on the man say torpenhow. 
the man who ha be down to look at the sea say the nilghai. 
i didn t know she be go to upset me in this fashion. 
that s what men say when they go to say good bye to a woman. it s more easy though to get rid of three woman than a piece of one s life and surround. 
but a woman can be begin dick unguardedly. 
a piece of one s life continue torpenhow. no she can t. his face darken for a moment. she say she want to sympathise with you and help you in your work and everything else that clearly a man must do for himself. then she send round five note a day to ask why the dickens you haven t be waste your time with her. 
don t generalise say the nilghai. by the time you arrive at five note a day you must have go through a good deal and behave accordingly. 
shouldn t begin these thing my son. 
i shouldn t have go down to the sea say dick just a little anxious to change the conversation. and you shouldn t have sing. 
the sea isn t send you five note a day say the nilghai. 
no but i m fatally compromise. she s an endure old hag and i m sorry i ever meet her. why wasn t i bear and breed and dead in a three pair back. 
hear him blaspheme his first love. why in the world shouldn t you listen to her. say torpenhow. 
before dick could reply the nilghai lift up his voice with a shout that shake the window in the men of the sea that begin a all know the sea be a wicked old woman and after rading through eight line whose imagery be truthful end in a refrain slow a the clack of a capstan when the boat come unwillingly up to the bar where the men sweat and tramp in the shingle. 
ye that bore u o restore u. she be kind than ye. for the call be on our heart string. say the men of the sea. 
the nilghai sing that verse twice with simple cunning intend that dick should hear. but dick be wait for the farewell of the men to their wife. 
ye that love u can ye move u. she be dear than ye. and your sleep will be the sweet say the men of the sea. 
the rough word beat like the blow of the wave on the bow of the rickety boat from lima in the day when dick be mix paint make love draw devil and angel in the half dark and wonder whether the next minute would put the italian captain s knife between his shoulder blade. and the go fever which be more real than many doctor disease wake and rag urge him who love maisie beyond anything in the world to go away and taste the old hot unregenerate life again to scuffle swear gamble and love light love with his fellow. to take ship and know the sea once more and by her beget picture. to talk to binat among the sand of port say while yellow tina mix the drink. to hear the crackle of musketry and see the smoke roll outward thin and thicken again till the shin black face come through and in that hell every man be strictly responsible for his own head and his own alone and strike with an unfettered arm. it be impossible utterly impossible but. 
oh our father in the churchyard she be old than ye and our graf will be the green say the men of the sea. 
what be there to hind. say torpenhow in the long hush that follow the song. 
you say a little time since that you wouldn t come for a walk round the world torp. 
that be month ago and i only object to your make money for travel expense. you ve shoot your bolt here and it ha go home. go away and do some work and see some thing. 
get some of the fat off you. you re disgracefully out of condition say the nilghai make a plunge from the chair and grasp a handful of dick generally over the right rib. soft a putty pure tallow bear of over feed. train it off dickie. 
we re all equally gross nilghai. next time you have to take the field you ll sit down wink your eye gasp and die in a fit. 
never mind. you go away on a ship. go to lima again or to brazil. 
there s always trouble in south america. 
do you suppose i want to be tell where to go. great heaven the only difficulty be to know where i m to stop. but i shall stay here a i tell you before. 
then you ll be bury in kensal green and turn into adipocere with the others say torpenhow. be you think of commission in hand. pay forfeit and go. you ve money enough to travel a a king if you please. 
you ve the grisly notion of amusement torp. i think i see myself ship first class on a six thousand ton hotel and ask the third engineer what make the engine go round and whether it isn t very warm in the stokehold. ho. ho. i should ship a a loafer if ever i ship at all which i m not go to do. i shall compromise and go for a small trip to begin with. 
that s something at any rate. where will you go. say torpenhow. it would do you all the good in the world old man. 
the nilghai saw the twinkle in dick s eye and refrain from speech. 
i shall go in the first place to rathray s stable where i shall hire one horse and take him very carefully a far a richmond hill. then i shall walk him back again in case he should accidentally burst into a lather and make rathray angry. i shall do that to morrow for the sake of air and exercise. 
bah. dick have barely time to throw up his arm and ward off the cushion that the disgust torpenhow heave at his head. 
air and exercise indeed say the nilghai sit down heavily on dick. 
let s give him a little of both. get the bellow torp. 
at this point the conference break up in disorder because dick would not open his mouth till the nilghai hold his nose fast and there be some trouble in force the nozzle of the bellow between his teeth. and even when it be there he weakly try to puff against the force of the blast and his cheek blow up with a great explosion. and the enemy become helpless with laughter he so beat them over the head with a soft sofa cushion that that become unsewn and distribute it feather and binkie interfere in torpenhow s interest be bundle into the half empty bag and advise to scratch his way out which he do after a while travel rapidly up and down the floor in the shape of an agitate green haggis and when he come out look for satisfaction the three pillar of his world be pick feather out of their hair. 
a prophet ha no honour in his own country say dick ruefully dust his knee. this filthy fluff will never brush off my leg. 
it be all for your own good say the nilghai. nothing like air and exercise. 
all for your good say torpenhow not in the least with reference to past clown. it would let you focus thing at their proper worth and prevent your become slack in this hothouse of a town. indeed it would old man. i shouldn t have speak if i hadn t think so. only you make a joke of everything. 
before god i do no such thing say dick quickly and earnestly. you don t know me if you think that. 
i don t think it say the nilghai. 
how can fellow like ourselves who know what life and death really mean dare to make a joke of anything. i know we pretend it to save ourselves from break down or go to the other extreme. can t i see old man how you re always anxious about me and try to advise me to make my work good. do you suppose i don t think about that myself. but you can t help me you can t help me not even you. i must play my own hand alone in my own way. 
hear hear from the nilghai. 
what s the one thing in the nilghai saga that i ve never draw in the nungapunga book. dick continue to torpenhow who be a little astonish at the outburst. 
now there be one blank page in the book give over to the sketch that dick have not draw of the crown exploit in the nilghai s life. when that man be young and forget that his body and bone belong to the paper that employ him have ride over sunburn slippery grass in the rear of bredow s brigade on the day that the trooper fling themselves at caurobert s artillery and for aught they know twenty battalion in front to save the batter th german infantry to give time to decide the fate of vionville and to learn ere their remnant come back to flavigay that cavalry can attack and crumple and break unshaken infantry. whenever he be incline to think over a life that might have be good an income that might have be large and a soul that might have be considerably clean the nilghai would comfort himself with the think i ride with bredow s brigade at vionville and take heart for any less battle the next day might bring. 
i know he say very gravely. i be always glad that you leave it out. 
i leave it out because nilghai teach me what the germany army learn then and what schmidt teach their cavalry. i don t know german. 
what be it. take care of the time and the dress will take care of itself. i must ride my own line to my own beat old man. 
tempe ist richtung. you ve learn your lesson well say the nilghai. 
he must go alone. he speak truth torp. 
maybe i m a wrong a i can be hideously wrong. i must find that out for myself a i have to think thing out for myself but i daren t turn my head to dress by the next man. it hurt me a great deal more than you know not to be able to go but i cannot that s all. i must do my own work and live my own life in my own way because i m responsible for both. 
only don t think i frivol about it torp. i have my own match and sulphur and i ll make my own hell thank. 
there be an uncomfortable pause. then torpenhow say blandly what do the governor of north carolina say to the governor of south carolina. 
excellent notion. it be a long time between drink. there be the making of a very fine prig in you dick say the nilghai. 
i ve liberate my mind estimable binkie with the feather in his mouth. dick pick up the still indignant one and shake him tenderly. 
you re tie up in a sack and make to run about blind binkie wee without any reason and it ha hurt your little feeling. never mind. sic volo sic jubeo stet pro ratione voluntas and don t sneeze in my eye because i talk latin. good night. 
he go out of the room. 
that s distinctly one for you say the nilghai. i tell you it be hopeless to meddle with him. he s not please. 
he d swear at me if he weren t. i can t make it out. he ha the go fever upon him and he win t go. i only hope that he mayn t have to go some day when he doesn t want to say torpenhow. 
* * * * *. 
in his own room dick be settle a question with himself and the question be whether all the world and all that be therein and a burn desire to exploit both be worth one threepenny piece throw into the thames. 
it come of see the sea and i m a cur to think about it he decide. 
after all the honeymoon will be that tour with reservation. only. only i didn t realise that the sea be so strong. i didn t feel it so much when i be with maisie. these damnable song do it. he s begin again. 
but it be only herrick s nightpiece to julia that the nilghai sing and before it be end dick reappear on the threshold not altogether clothe indeed but in his right mind thirsty and at peace. 
the mood have come and go with the rise and the fall of the tide by fort keel. 
chapter ix. 
if i have take the common clay and work it cunningly in the shape of a god that be digged a clod the great honour to me. 
if thou hast take the common clay and thy hand be not free from the taint of the soil thou hast make thy spoil the great shame to thee. the two potter. 
he do no work of any kind for the rest of the week. then come another sunday. he dread and long for the day always but since the red haired girl have sketch him there be rather more dread than desire in his mind. 
he find that maisie have entirely neglect his suggestion about line work. she have go off at score file with some absurd notion for a fancy head. it cost dick something to command his temper. 
what s the good of suggest anything. he say pointedly. 
ah but this will be a picture a real picture. and i know that kami will let me send it to the salon. you don t mind do you. 
i suppose not. but you win t have time for the salon. 
maisie hesitate a little. she even felt uncomfortable. 
we re go over to france a month sooner because of it. i shall get the idea sketch out here and work it up at kami s. 
dick s heart stand still and he come very near to be disgust with his queen who could do no wrong. just when i think i have make some headway she go off chase butterfly. it s too madden. 
there be no possibility of argue for the red haired girl be in the studio. dick could only look unutterable reproach. 
i m sorry he say and i think you make a mistake. but what s the idea of your new picture. 
i take it from a book. 
that s bad to begin with. book aren t the place for picture. and. 
it s this say the red haired girl behind him. i be read it to maisie the other day from the city of dreadful night. d you know the book. 
a little. i be sorry i speak. there be picture in it. what ha take her fancy. 
the description of the melancolia. 
her fold wing a of a mighty eagle but all too impotent to lift the regal robustness of her earth bear strength and pride. 
and here again. maisie get the tea dear. 
the forehead charge with baleful thought and dream the household bunch of key the housewife s gown voluminous indent and yet rigid a though a shell of burnish metal frigid her foot thick shoe to tread all weakness down. 
there be no attempt to conceal the scorn of the lazy voice. dick wince. 
but that ha be do already by an obscure artist by the name of durer say he. how doe the poem run. 
three century and threescore year ago with phantasy of his peculiar think. 
you might a well try to rewrite hamlet. it will be a waste of time. 
no it win t say maisie put down the teacup with a clatter to reassure herself. and i mean to do it. can t you see what a beautiful thing it would make. 
how in perdition can one do work when one hasn t have the proper train. any fool can get a notion. it need train to drive the thing through train and conviction. not rush after the first fancy. dick speak between his teeth. 
you don t understand say maisie. i think i can do it. 
again the voice of the girl behind him. 
baffle and beat back she work on still. weary and sick of soul she work the more. 
sustain by her indomitable will the hand shall fashion and the brain shall pore and all her sorrow shall be turn to labour. 
i fancy maisie mean to embody herself in the picture. 
sit on a throne of reject picture. no i shan t dear. the notion in itself ha fascinate me. of course you don t care for fancy head dick. 
i don t think you could do them. you like blood and bone. 
that s a direct challenge. if you can do a melancolia that isn t merely a sorrowful female head i can do a good one. and i will too. what d you know about melacolias. dick firmly believe that he be even then taste three quarter of all the sorrow in the world. 
she be a woman say maisie and she suffer a great deal till she could suffer no more. then she begin to laugh at it all and then i paint her and send her to the salon. 
the red haired girl rise up and leave the room laugh. 
dick look at maisie humbly and hopelessly. 
never mind about the picture he say. be you really go back to kami s for a month before your time. 
i must if i want to get the picture do. 
and that s all you want. 
of course. don t be stupid dick. 
you haven t the power. you have only the idea the idea and the little cheap impulse. how you could have keep at your work for ten year steadily be a mystery to me. so you be really go a month before you need. 
i must do my work. 
your work bah. no i didn t mean that. it s all right dear. of course you must do your work and i think i ll say good bye for this week. 
win t you even stay for tea. no thank you. have i your leave to go dear. there s nothing more you particularly want me to do and the line work doesn t matter. 
i wish you could stay and then we could talk over my picture. if only one single picture s a success it draw attention to all the others. i know some of my work be good if only people could see. and you needn t have be so rude about it. 
i m sorry. we ll talk the melancolia over some one of the other sunday. 
there be four more yes one two three four before you go. good bye maisie. 
maisie stand by the studio window think till the red haired girl return a little white at the corner of her lip. 
dick s go off say maisie. just when i want to talk about the picture. isn t it selfish of him. 
her companion open her lip a if to speak shut them again and go on read the city of dreadful night. 
dick be in the park walk round and round a tree that he have choose a his confidante for many sunday past. he be swear audibly and when he find that the infirmity of the english tongue hem in his rage he seek consolation in arabic which be expressly design for the use of the afflict. he be not please with the reward of his patient service. nor be he please with himself. and it be long before he arrive at the proposition that the queen could do no wrong. 
it s a lose game he say. i m worth nothing when a whim of hers be in question. but in a lose game at port say we use to double the stake and go on. she do a melancolia. she hasn t the power or the insight or the train. only the desire. she s curse with the curse of reuben. she win t do line work because it mean real work. and yet she s strong than i be. i ll make her understand that i can beat her on her own melancolia. even then she wouldn t care. she say i can only do blood and bone. i don t believe she ha blood in her vein. all the same i lover her. and i must go on love her. and if i can humble her inordinate vanity i will. i ll do a melancolia that shall be something like a melancolia the melancolia that transcend all wit. i ll do it at once con bless her. 
he discover that the notion would not come to order and that he could not free his mind for an hour from the think of maisie s departure. he take very small interest in her rough study for the melancolia when she show them next week. the sunday be race past and the time be at hand when all the church bell in london could not ring maisie back to him. once or twice he say something to binkie about hermaphroditic futility but the little dog receive so many confidence both from torpenhow and dick that he do not trouble his tulip ear to listen. 
dick be permit to see the girl off. they be go by the dover night boat. and they hop to return in august. it be then february and dick felt that he be be hardly use. maisie be so busy strip the small house across the park and pack her canvas that she have not time for think. dick go down to dover and waste a day there fret over a wonderful possibility. would maisie at the very last allow him one small kiss. he reflect that he might capture her by the strong arm a he have seem woman capture in the southern soudan and lead her away. but maisie would never be lead. she would turn her gray eye upon him and say dick how selfish you be. then his courage would fail him. it would be good after all to beg for that kiss. 
maisie look more than usually kissable a she step from the night mail on to the windy pier in a gray waterproof and a little gray cloth travel cap. the red haired girl be not so lovely. her green eye be hollow and her lip be dry. dick saw the trunk aboard and go to maisie s side in the darkness under the bridge. the mail bag be thunder into the forehold and the red haired girl be watch them. 
you ll have a rough passage to night say dick. it s blow outside. i suppose i may come over and see you if i m good. 
you mustn t. i shall be busy. at least if i want you i ll send for you. but i shall write from vitry sur marne. i shall have heap of thing to consult you about. oh dick you have be so good to me. so good to me. 
thank you for that dear. it hasn t make any difference ha it. 
i can t tell a fib. it hasn t in that way. but don t think i m not grateful. 
damn the gratitude. say dick huskily to the paddle box. 
what s the use of worry. you know i should ruin your life and you d ruin mine a thing be now. you remember what you say when you be so angry that day in the park. one of u ha to be break. 
can t you wait till that day come. 
no love. i want you unbroken all to myself. 
maisie shake her head. my poor dick what can i say. 
don t say anything. give me a kiss. only one kiss maisie. i ll swear i win t take any more. you might a well and then i can be sure you re grateful. 
maisie put her cheek forward and dick take his reward in the darkness. 
it be only one kiss but since there be no time limit specify it be a long one. maisie wrench herself free angrily and dick stand abash and tingle from head to toe. 
good bye darling. i didn t mean to scare you. i m sorry. only keep well and do good work specially the melancolia. i m go to do one too. remember me to kami and be careful what you drink. country drink water be bad everywhere but it s bad in france. write to me if you want anything and good bye. say good bye to the whatever you call um girl and can t i have another kiss. no. you re quite right. good bye. 
a should tell him that it be not seemly to charge of the mail bag incline. he reach the pier a the steamer begin to move off and he follow her with his heart. 
and there s nothing nothing in the wide world to keep u apart except her obstinacy. these calais night boat be much too small. i ll get torp to write to the paper about it. she s begin to pitch already. 
maisie stand where dick have leave her till she hear a little gasp cough at her elbow. the red haired girl s eye be alight with cold flame. 
he kiss you. she say. how could you let him when he wasn t anything to you. how dare you to take a kiss from him. oh maisie let s go to the lady cabin. i m sick deadly sick. 
we aren t into open water yet. go down dear and i ll stay here. i don t like the smell of the engine. poor dick. he deserve one only one. 
but i didn t think he d frighten me so. 
dick return to town next day just in time for lunch for which he have telegraph. to his disgust there be only empty plate in the studio. 
he lift up his voice like the bear in the fairy tale and torpenhow enter look guilty. 
h sh. say he. don t make such a noise. i take it. come into my room and i ll show you why. 
dick pause amaze at the threshold for on torpenhow s sofa lay a girl asleep and breathe heavily. the little cheap sailor hat the blue and white dress fit for june than for february dabble with mud at the skirt the jacket trim with imitation astrakhan and rip at the shoulder seam the one and elevenpenny umbrella and above all the disgraceful condition of the kid top boot declare all thing. 
oh i say old man this be too bad. you mustn t bring this sort up here. 
they steal thing from the room. 
it look bad i admit but i be come in after lunch and she stagger into the hall. i think she be drink at first but it be collapse. i couldn t leave her a she be so i bring her up here and give her your lunch. she be faint from want of food. she go fast asleep the minute she have finish. 
i know something of that complaint. she s be live on sausage i suppose. torp you should have hand her over to a policeman for presume to faint in a respectable house. poor little wretch. look at the face. there isn t an ounce of immorality in it. only folly slack fatuous feeble futile folly. it s a typical head. d you notice how the skull begin to show through the flesh pad on the face and cheek bone. 
what a cold blood barbarian it be. don t hit a woman when she s down. can t we do anything. she be simply drop with starvation. 
she almost fell into my arm and when she get to the food she eat like a wild beast. it be horrible. 
i can give her money which she would probably spend in drink. be she go to sleep for ever. 
the girl open her eye and glare at the men between terror and effrontery. 
feel good. say torpenhow. 
yes. thank you. there aren t many gentleman that be a kind a you be. thank you. 
when do you leave service. say dick who have be watch the scar and chap hand. 
how do you know i be in service. i be. general servant. i didn t like it. 
and how do you like be your own mistress. 
do i look a if i like it. 
i suppose not. one moment. would you be good enough to turn your face to the window. 
the girl obey and dick watch her face keenly so keenly that she make a if to hide behind torpenhow. 
the eye have it say dick walk up and down. they be superb eye for my business. and after all every head depend on the eye. this ha be send from heaven to make up for what be take away. now the weekly strain s off my shoulder i can get to work in earnest. 
evidently send from heaven. yes. raise your chin a little please. 
gently old man gently. you re scar somebody out of her wit say torpenhow who could see the girl tremble. 
don t let him hit me. oh please don t let him hit me. i ve be hit cruel to day because i speak to a man. don t let him look at me like that. he s reg lar wicked that one. don t let him look at me like that neither. oh i feel a if i hadn t nothing on when he look at me like that. 
the overstrain nerve in the frail body give way and the girl weep like a little child and begin to scream. dick throw open the window and torpenhow fling the door back. 
there you be say dick soothingly. my friend here can call for a policeman and you can run through that door. nobody be go to hurt you. 
the girl sob convulsively for a few minute and then try to laugh. 
nothing in the world to hurt you. now listen to me for a minute. i m what they call an artist by profession. you know what artist do. 
they draw the thing in red and black ink on the pop shop label. 
i dare say. i haven t rise to pop shop label yet. those be do by the academician. i want to draw your head. 
what for. 
because it s pretty. that be why you will come to the room across the land three time a week at eleven in the morning and i ll give you three quid a week just for sit still and be draw. and there s a quid on account. 
for nothing. oh my. the girl turn the sovereign in her hand and with more foolish tear ain t neither o you two gentleman afraid of my bilk you. 
no. only ugly girl do that. try and remember this place. and by the way what s your name. 
i m bessic bessie it s no use give the rest. bessie break stone break if you like. what s your name. but there no one ever give the real one. 
dick consult torpenhow with his eye. 
my name s heldar and my friend s call torpenhow. and you must be sure to come here. where do you live. 
south the water one room five and sixpence a week. aren t you make fun of me about that three quid. 
you ll see late on. and bessie next time you come remember you needn t wear that paint. it s bad for the skin and i have all the colour you ll be likely to need. 
bessie withdraw scrub her cheek with a rag pocket handkerchief. the two men look at each other. 
you re a man say torpenhow. 
i m afraid i ve be a fool. it isn t our business to run about the earth reform bessie brokes. and a woman of any kind ha no right on this land. 
perhaps she win t come back. 
she will if she think she can get food and warmth here. i know she will bad luck. but remember old man she isn t a woman. she s my model. and be careful. 
the idea. she s a dissolute little scarecrow a gutter snippet and nothing more. 
so you think. wait till she ha be feed a little and free from fear. that fair type recover itself very quickly. you win t know her in a week or two when that abject fear ha die out of her eye. she ll be too happy and smile for my purpose. 
but surely you re not take her out of charity. to please me. 
i be not in the habit of play with hot coal to please anybody. she ha be send from heaven a i may have remark before to help me with my melancolia. 
never hear a word about the lady before. 
what s the use of have a friend if you must sling your notion at him in word. you ought to know what i m think about. you ve hear me grunt lately. 
even so. but grunt mean anything in your language from bad baccy to wicked dealer. and i don t think i ve be much in your confidence for some time. 
it be a high and soulful grunt. you ought to have understand that it mean the melancolia. dick walk torpenhow up and down the room keep silence. then he smite him in the rib now don t you see it. bessie s abject futility and the terror in her eye weld on to one or two detail in the way of sorrow that have come under my experience lately. likewise some orange and black two key of each. but i can t explain on an empty stomach. 
it sound mad enough. you d good stick to your soldier dick instead of maunder about head and eye and experience. 
think so. dick begin to dance on his heel sing. 
they re a proud a a turkey when they hold the ready cash you ought to ear the way they laugh an joke. they be tricky an they re funny when they ve get the ready money ow. but see em when they re all stone break. 
then he sit down to pour out his heart to maisie in a four sheet letter of counsel and encouragement and register an oath that he would get to work with an undivided heart a soon a bessie should reappear. 
the girl keep her appointment unpainted and unadorned afraid and overbold by turn. when she find that she be merely expect to sit still she grow calm and criticise the appointment of the studio with freedom and some point. she like the warmth and the comfort and the release from fear of physical pain. dick make two or three study of her head in monochrome but the actual notion of the melancolia would not arrive. 
what a mess you keep your thing in. say bessie some day late when she felt herself thoroughly at home. i s pose your clothe be just a bad. 
gentleman never think what button and tape be make for. 
i buy thing to wear and wear em till they go to piece. i don t know what torpenhow doe. 
bessie make diligent inquiry in the latter s room and unearth a bale of disreputable sock. some of these i ll mend now she say and some i ll take home. d you know i sit all day long at home do nothing just like a lady and no more notice them other girl in the house than if they be so many fly. i don t have any unnecessary word but i put em down quick i can tell you when they talk to me. no. it s quite nice these day. i lock my door and they can only call me name through the keyhole and i sit inside just like a lady mend sock. mr. torpenhow wear his sock out both end at once. 
three quid a week from me and the delight of my society. no sock mend. nothing from torp except a nod on the land now and again and all his sock mend. bessie be very much a woman think dick. and he look at her between half shut eye. food and rest have transform the girl a dick know they would. 
what be you look at me like that for. she say quickly. don t. you look reg lar bad when you look that way. you don t think much o me do you. 
that depend on how you behave. 
bessie behave beautifully. only it be difficult at the end of a sit to bid her go out into the gray street. she very much prefer the studio and a big chair by the stave with some sock in her lap a an excuse for delay. then torpenhow would come in and bessie would be move to tell strange and wonderful story of her past and still strange one of her present improve circumstance. she would make them tea a though she have a right to make it. and once or twice on these occasion dick catch torpenhow s eye fix on the trim little figure and because bessie flittings about the room make dick ardently long for maisie he realise whither torpenhow s thought be tend. and bessie be exceedingly careful of the condition of torpenhow s linen. she speak very little to him but sometimes they talk together on the land. 
i be a great fool dick say to himself. i know what red firelight look like when a man s tramp through a strange town. and ours be a lonely selfish sort of life at the best. i wonder maisie doesn t feel that sometimes. but i can t order bessie away. that s the bad of begin thing. one never know where they stop. 
one even after a sit prolong to the last limit of the light dick be rouse from a nap by a break voice in torpenhow s room. he jump to his foot. now what ought i to do. it look foolish to go in. oh bless you binkie. the little terrier thrust torpenhow s door open with his nose and come out to take possession of dick s chair. the door swing wide unheeded and dick across the land could see bessie in the half light make her little supplication to torpenhow. she be kneel by his side and her hand be clasp across his knee. 
i know i know she say thickly. tisn t right o me to do this but i can t help it. and you be so kind so kind. and you never take any notice o me. and i ve mend all your thing so carefully i do. oh please tisn t a if i be ask you to marry me. i wouldn t think of it. 
but you couldn t you take and live with me till miss right come along. i m only miss wrong i know but i d work my hand to the bare bone for you. and i m not ugly to look at. say you will. 
dick hardly recognise torpenhow s voice in reply but look here. it s no use. i m liable to be order off anywhere at a minute s notice if a war break out. at a minute s notice dear. 
what doe that matter. until you go then. until you go. tisn t much i m ask and you don t know how good i can cook. she have put an arm round his neck and be draw his head down. 
until i go then. 
torp say dick across the land. he could hardly steady his voice. 
come here a minute old man. i m in trouble heaven send he ll listen to me. there be something very like an oath from bessie s lip. she be afraid of dick and disappear down the staircase in panic but it seem an age before torpenhow enter the studio. he go to the mantelpiece bury his head on his arm and groan like a wound bull. 
what the devil right have you to interfere. he say at last. 
who s interfere with which. your own sense tell you long ago you couldn t be such a fool. it be a tough rack st. anthony but you re all right now. 
i oughtn t to have see her move about these room a if they belong to her. that s what upset me. it give a lonely man a sort of hanker doesn t it. say torpenhow piteously. 
now you talk sense. it doe. but since you aren t in a condition to discus the disadvantage of double housekeep do you know what you re go to do. 
i don t. i wish i do. 
you re go away for a season on a brilliant tour to regain tone. you re go to brighton or scarborough or prawle point to see the ship go by. and you re go at once. isn t it odd. i ll take care of binkie but out you go immediately. never resist the devil. he hold the bank. fly from him. pack your thing and go. 
i believe you re right. where shall i go. 
and you call yourself a special correspondent. pack first and inquire afterwards. 
an hour late torpenhow be despatch into the night for a hansom. 
you ll probably think of some place to go to while you re move say dick. on to euston to begin with and oh yes get drink to night. 
he return to the studio and light more candle for he find the room very dark. 
oh you jezebel. you futile little jezebel. win t you hate me to morrow. binkie come here. 
binkie turn over on his back on the hearth rug and dick stir him with a meditative foot. 
i say she be not immoral. i be wrong. she say she could cook. that show premeditate sin. oh binkie if you be a man you will go to perdition. but if you be a woman and say that you can cook you will go to a much bad place. 
chapter x. 
what s you that follow at my side. the foe that ye must fight my lord. that hirples swift a i can ride. the shadow of the night my lord. then wheel my horse against the foe. he s down and overpast my lord. 
ye war against the sunset glow. the darkness gather fast my lord. 
the fight of heriot s ford. 
this be a cheerful life say dick some day late. torp s away. bessie hate me. i can t get at the notion of the melancolia. maisie s letter be scrappy. and i believe i have indigestion. what give a man pain across the head and spot before his eye binkie. shall u take some liver pill. 
dick have just go through a lively scene with bessie. she have for the fiftieth time reproach him for send torpenhow away. she explain her endure hatred for dick and make it clear to him that she only sit for the sake of his money. and mr. torpenhow s ten time a good man than you she conclude. 
he be. that s why he go away. i should have stay and make love to you. 
the girl sit with her chin on her hand scowl. to me. i d like to catch you. if i wasn t afraid o be hang i d kill you. that s what i d do. 
d you believe me. 
dick smile wearily. it be not pleasant to live in the company of a notion that will not work out a fox terrier that cannot talk and a woman who talk too much. he would have answer but at that moment there unroll itself from one corner of the studio a veil a it be of the flimsy gauze. he rub his eye but the gray haze would not go. 
this be disgraceful indigestion. binkie we will go to a medicine man. we can t have our eye interfere with for by these we get our bread. also mutton chop bone for little dog. 
the doctor be an affable local practitioner with white hair and he say nothing till dick begin to describe the gray film in the studio. 
we all want a little patch and repair from time to time he chirp. like a ship my dear sir exactly like a ship. sometimes the hull be out of order and we consult the surgeon. sometimes the rig and then i advise. sometimes the engine and we go to the brain specialist. sometimes the look out on the bridge be tire and then we see an oculist. i should recommend you to see an oculist. a little patch and repair from time to time be all we want. an oculist by all mean. 
dick seek an oculist the best in london. he be certain that the local practitioner do not know anything about his trade and more certain that maisie would laugh at him if he be force to wear spectacle. 
i ve neglect the warning of my lord the stomach too long. hence these spot before the eye binkie. i can see a well a i ever could. 
a he enter the dark hall that lead to the consult room a man cannon against him. dick saw the face a it hurry out into the street. 
that s the writer type. he ha the same model of the forehead a torp. he look very sick. probably hear something he didn t like. 
even a he think a great fear come upon dick a fear that make him hold his breath a he walk into the oculist s wait room with the heavy carve furniture the dark green paper and the sober hue print on the wall. he recognise a reproduction of one of his own sketch. 
many people be wait their turn before him. his eye be catch by a flame red and gold christmas carol book. little child come to that eye doctor and they need large type amusement. 
that s idolatrous bad art he say draw the book towards himself. 
from the anatomy of the angel it ha be make in germany. he open in mechanically and there leap to his eye a verse print in red ink. 
the next good joy that mary have it be the joy of three to see her good son jesus christ make the blind to see. make the blind to see good lord and happy we may be. 
praise father son and holy ghost to all eternity. 
dick read and re read the verse till his turn come and the doctor be bend above him seat in an arm chair. the blaze of the gas microscope in his eye make him wince. the doctor s hand touch the scar of the sword cut on dick s head and dick explain briefly how he have come by it. when the flame be remove dick saw the doctor s face and the fear come upon him again. the doctor wrap himself in a mist of word. dick catch allusion to scar frontal bone optic nerve extreme caution and the avoidance of mental anxiety. 
verdict. he say faintly. my business be paint and i daren t waste time. what do you make of it. 
again the whirl of word but this time they convey a mean. 
can you give me anything to drink. 
many sentence be pronounce in that darken room and the prisoner often need cheer. dick find a glass of liqueur brandy in his hand. 
a far a i can gather he say cough above the spirit you call it decay of the optic nerve or something and therefore hopeless. what be my time limit avoid all strain and worry. 
perhaps one year. 
my god. and if i don t take care of myself. 
i really could not say. one cannot ascertain the exact amount of injury inflict by the sword cut. the scar be an old one and exposure to the strong light of the desert do you say. with excessive application to fine work. i really could not say. 
i beg your pardon but it ha come without any warn. if you will let me i ll sit here for a minute and then i ll go. you have be very good in tell me the truth. without any warn. without any warn. 
thank. 
dick go into the street and be rapturously receive by binkie. 
we ve get it very badly little dog. just a badly a we can get it. we ll go to the park to think it out. 
they head for a certain tree that dick know well and they sit down to thin because his leg be tremble under him and there be cold fear at the pit of his stomach. 
how could it have come without any warn. it s a sudden a be shoot. it s the live death binkie. we re to be shut up in the dark in one year if we re careful and we shan t see anybody and we shall never have anything we want not though we live to be a hundred. binkie wag his tail joyously. binkie we must think. let s see how it feel to be blind. dick shut his eye and flame comma and catherine wheel float inside the lid. yet when he look across the park the scope of his vision be not contract. he could see perfectly until a procession of slow wheel firework defile across his eyeball. 
little dorglums we aren t at all well. let s go home. if only torp be back now. 
but torpenhow be in the south of england inspect dockyard in the company of the nilghai. his letter be brief and full of mystery. 
dick have never ask anybody to help him in his joy or his sorrow. he argue in the loneliness of his studio henceforward to be decorate with a film of gray gauze in one corner that if his fate be blindness all the torpenhows in the world could not save him. i can t call him off his trip to sit down and sympathise with me. i must pull through this business alone he say. he be lie on the sofa eat his moustache and wonder what the darkness of the night would be like. then come to his mind the memory of a quaint scene in the soudan. a soldier have be nearly hack in two by a broad bladed arab spear. for one instant the man felt no pain. look down he saw that his life blood be go from him. the stupid bewilderment on his face be so intensely comic that both dick and torpenhow still pant and unstring from a fight for life have roar with laughter in which the man seem a if he would join but a his lip part in a sheepish grin the agony of death come upon him and he pitch grunt at their foot. dick laugh again remember the horror. it seem so exactly like his own case. 
but i have a little more time allow me he say. he pace up and down the room quietly at first but afterwards with the hurry foot of fear. it be a though a black shadow stand at his elbow and urge him to go forward. and there be only weave circle and float pin dot before his eye. 
we need to be calm binkie. we must be calm. he talk aloud for the sake of distraction. this isn t nice at all. what shall we do. we must do something. our time be short. i shouldn t have believe that this morning. but now thing be different. binkie where be moses when the light go out. 
binkie smile from ear to ear a a well breed terrier should but make no suggestion. 
be there but world enough and time this coyness binkie be not crime. but at my back i always hear he wipe his forehead which be unpleasantly damp. what can i do. what can i do. i haven t any notion leave and i can t think connectedly but i must do something or i shall go off my head. 
the hurry walk recommence dick stop every now and again to drag forth long neglect canvas and old note book. for he turn to his work by instinct a a thing that could not fail. you win t do and you win t do he say at each inspection. no more soldier. i couldn t paint em. sudden death come home too nearly and this be battle and murder for me. 
the day be fail and dick think for a moment that the twilight of the blind have come upon him unaware. allah almighty. he cry despairingly help me through the time of wait and i win t whine when my punishment come. what can i do now before the light go. 
there be no answer. dick wait till he could regain some sort of control over himself. his hand be shake and he pride himself on their steadiness. he could feel that his lip be quiver and the sweat be run down his face. he be lash by fear drive forward by the desire to get to work at once and accomplish something and madden by the refusal of his brain to do more than repeat the news that he be about to go blind. it s a humiliate exhibition he think and i m glad torp isn t here to see. the doctor say i be to avoid mental worry. 
come here and let me pet you binkie. 
the little dog yelp because dick nearly squeeze the bark out of him. 
then he hear the man speak in the twilight and doglike understand that his trouble stand off from him allah be good binkie. not quite so gentle a we could wish but we ll discus that late. i think i see my way to it now. all those study of bessie s head be nonsense and they nearly bring your master into a scrape. i hold the notion now a clear a crystal the melancolia that transcend all wit. there shall be maisie in that head because i shall never get maisie. and be of course because she know all about melancolia though she doesn t know she know. and there shall be some draw in it and it shall all end up with a laugh. that s for myself. shall she giggle or grin. no she shall laugh right out of the canvas and every man and woman that ever have a sorrow of their own shall what be it the poem say. 
understand the speech and feel a stir of fellowship in all disastrous fight. 
in all disastrous fight. that s good than paint the thing merely to pique maisie. i can do it now because i have it inside me. binkie i m go to hold you up by your tail. you re an omen. come here. 
binkie swing head downward for a moment without speak. 
rather like hold a guinea pig. but you re a brave little dog and you don t yelp when you re hang up. it be an omen. 
binkie go to his own chair and a often a he look saw dick walk up and down rub his hand and chuckle. that night dick write a letter to maisie full of the tender regard for her health but say very little about his own and dream of the melancolia to be bear. not till morning do he remember that something might happen to him in the future. 
he fell to work whistle softly and be swallow up in the clean clear joy of creation which doe not come to man too often l he should consider himself the equal of his god and so refuse to die at the appoint time. he forget maisie torpenhow and binkie at his foot but remember to stir bessie who need very little stir into a tremendous rage that he might watch the smoulder light in her eye. 
he throw himself without reservation into his work and do not think of the doom that be to overtake him for he be possess with his notion and the thing of this world have no power upon him. 
you re please to day say bessie. 
dick wave his mahl stick in mystic circle and go to the sideboard for a drink. in the even when the exaltation of the day have die down he go to the sideboard again and after some visit become convince that the eye doctor be a liar since he could still see everything very clearly. 
he be of opinion that he would even make a home for maisie and that whether she like it or not she should be his wife. the mood pass next morning but the sideboard and all upon it remain for his comfort. 
again he set to work and his eye trouble him with spot and dash and blur till he have take counsel with the sideboard and the melancolia both on the canvas and in his own mind appear lovely than ever. there be a delightful sense of irresponsibility upon him such a they feel who walk among their fellow men know that the death sentence of disease be upon them and see that fear be but waste of the little time leave be riotously happy. the day pass without event. 
bessie arrive punctually always and though her voice seem to dick to come from a distance her face be always very near. the melancolia begin to flame on the canvas in the liken of a woman who have know all the sorrow in the world and be laugh at it. it be true that the corner of the studio drape themselves in gray film and retire into the darkness that the spot in his eye and the pain across his head be very troublesome and that maisie s letter be hard to read and hard still to answer. he could not tell her of his trouble and he could not laugh at her account of her own melancolia which be always go to be finish. but the furious day of toil and the night of wild dream make amend for all and the sideboard be his best friend on earth. 
bessie be singularly dull. she use to shriek with rage when dick star at her between half close eye. now she sulk or watch him with disgust say very little. 
torpenhow have be absent for six week. an incoherent note herald his return. news. great news. he write. the nilghai know and so doe the keneu. we re all back on thursday. get lunch and clean your accoutrement. 
dick show bessie the letter and she abuse him for that he have ever send torpenhow away and ruin her life. 
well say dick brutally you re good a you be instead of make love to some drunken beast in the street. he felt that he have rescue torpenhow from great temptation. 
i don t know if that s any bad than sit to a drunken beast in a studio. you haven t be sober for three week. you ve be soak the whole time. and yet you pretend you re good than me. 
what d you mean. say dick. 
mean. you ll see when mr. torpenhow come back. 
it be not long to wait. torpenhow meet bessie on the staircase without a sign of feel. he have news that be more to him than many bessies and the keneu and the nilghai be trample behind him call for dick. 
drink like a fish bessie whisper. he s be at it for nearly a month. she follow the men stealthily to hear judgment do. 
they come into the studio rejoice to be welcome over effusively by a draw line shrink haggard wreck unshaven blue white about the nostril stoop in the shoulder and peer under his eyebrow nervously. the drink have be at work a steadily a dick. 
be this you. say torpenhow. 
all that s leave of me. sit down. binkie s quite well and i ve be do some good work. he reel where he stand. 
you ve do some of the bad work you ve ever do in your life. man alive you re. 
torpenhow turn to his companion appealingly and they leave the room to find lunch elsewhere. then he speak. but since the reproof of a friend be much too sacred and intimate a thing to be print and since torpenhow use figure and metaphor which be unseemly and contempt untranslatable it will never be know what be actually say to dick who blink and wink and pick at his hand. after a time the culprit begin to feel the need of a little self respect. he be quite sure that he have not in any way depart from virtue and there be reason too of which torpenhow know nothing. he would explain. 
he rise try to straighten his shoulder and speak to the face he could hardly see. 
you be right he say. but i be right too. after you go away i have some trouble with my eye. so i go to an oculist and he turn a gasogene i mean a gas engine into my eye. that be very long ago. he say scar on the head sword cut and optic nerve. make a note of that. so i be go blind. i have some work to do before i go blind and i suppose that i must do it. i cannot see much now but i can see best when i be drink. i do not know i be drink till i be tell but i must go on with my work. if you want to see it there it be. he point to the all but finish melancolia and look for applause. 
torpenhow say nothing and dick begin to whimper feebly for joy at see torpenhow again for grief at misdeed if indeed they be misdeed that make torpenhow remote and unsympathetic and for childish vanity hurt since torpenhow have not give a word of praise to his wonderful picture. 
bessie look through the keyhole after a long pause and saw the two walk up and down a usual torpenhow s hand on dick s shoulder. 
hereat she say something so improper that it shock even binkie who be dribble patiently on the land with the hope of see his master again. 
chapter xi. 
the lark will make her hymn to god the partridge call her brood while i forget the heath i tread the field wherein i stand. 
ti dule to know not night from morn but deep dule to know i can but hear the hunter s horn that once i use to blow. 
the only son. 
it be the third day after torpenhow s return and his heart be heavy. 
do you mean to tell me that you can t see to work without whiskey. it s generally the other way about. 
can a drunkard swear on his honour. say dick. 
yes if he ha be a god a man a you. 
then i give you my word of honour say dick speak hurriedly through parch lip. old man i can hardly see your face now. you ve keep me sober for two day if i ever be drink and i ve do no work. 
don t keep me back any more. i don t know when my eye may give out. 
the spot and dot and the pain and thing be crowd bad than ever. i swear i can see all right when i m when i m moderately screw a you say. give me three more sitting from bessie and all the stuff i want and the picture will be do. i can t kill myself in three day. it only mean a touch of d. t. at the bad. 
if i give you three day more will you promise me to stop work and the other thing whether the picture s finish or not. 
i can t. you don t know what that picture mean to me. but surely you could get the nilghai to help you and knock me down and tie me up. i shouldn t fight for the whiskey but i should for the work. 
go on then. i give you three day. but you re nearly break my heart. 
dick return to his work toil a one possess. and the yellow devil of whiskey stand by him and chase away the spot in his eye. the melancolia be nearly finish and be all or nearly all that he have hop she would be. dick jest with bessie who remind him that he be a drunken beast. but the reproof do not move him. 
you can t understand be. we be in sight of land now and soon we shall lie back and think about what we ve do. i ll give you three month pay when the picture s finish and next time i have any more work in hand but that doesn t matter. win t three month pay make you hate me le. 
no it win t. i hate you and i ll go on hat you. mr. torpenhow win t speak to me any more. he s always look at map. 
bessie do not say that she have again lay siege to torpenhow or that at the end of our passionate plead he have pick her up give her a kiss and put her outside the door with the recommendation not to be a little fool. he spend most of his time in the company of the nilghai and their talk be of war in the near future the hire of transport and secret preparation among the dockyard. he do not wish to see dick till the picture be finish. 
he s do first class work he say to the nilghai and it s quite out of his regular line. but for the matter of that so s his infernal soak. 
never mind. leave him alone. when he ha come to his sens again we ll carry him off from this place and let him breathe clean air. poor dick. i don t envy you torp when his eye fail. 
yes it will be a case of god help the man who s chain to our davie. the bad be that we don t know when it will happen and i believe the uncertainty and the wait have send dick to the whiskey more than anything else. 
how the arab who cut his head open would grin if he know. 
he s at perfect liberty to grin if he can. he s dead. that s poor consolation now. 
in the afternoon of the third day torpenhow hear dick call for him. 
all finish. he shout. i ve do it. come in. isn t she a beauty. isn t she a darling. i ve be down to hell to get her. but isn t she worth it. 
torpenhow look at the head of a woman who laugh a full lipped hollow eye woman who laugh from out of the canvas a dick have intend she would. 
who teach you how to do it. say torpenhow. the touch and notion have nothing to do with your regular work. what a face it be. what eye and what insolence. unconsciously he throw back his head and laugh with her. she s see the game play out i don t think she have a good time of it and now she doesn t care. isn t that the idea. 
exactly. 
where do you get the mouth and chin from. they don t belong to be. 
they re some one else s. but isn t it good. isn t it thunder good. wasn t it worth the whiskey. i do it. alone i do it and it s the best i can do. he draw his breath sharply and whisper just god. what could i not do ten year hence if i can do this now. by the way what do you think of it be. 
the girl be bite her lip. she loathe torpenhow because he have take no notice of her. 
i think it s just the horrid beastly thing i ever saw she answer and turn away. 
more than you will be of that way of think young woman. dick there s a sort of murderous viperine suggestion in the poise of the head that i don t understand say torpenhow. 
that s trick work say dick chuckle with delight at be completely understand. i couldn t resist one little bite of sheer swagger. it s a french trick and you wouldn t understand. but it s get at by slew round the head a trifle and a tiny tiny foreshorten of one side of the face from the angle of the chin to the top of the leave ear. that and deepen the shadow under the lobe of the ear. it be flagrant trick work. but have the notion fix i felt entitle to play with it oh you beauty. 
amen. she be a beauty. i can feel it. 
so will every man who ha any sorrow of his own say dick slap his thigh. he shall see his trouble there and by the lord harry just when he s feel properly sorry for himself he shall throw back his head and laugh a she be laugh. i ve put the life of my heart and the light of my eye into her and i don t care what come. i m tire awfully tire. i think i ll get to sleep. take away the whiskey it ha serve it turn and give bessie thirty six quid and three over for luck. cover the picture. 
he drop asleep in the long chair hide face white and haggard almost before he have finish the sentence. bessie try to take torpenhow s hand. aren t you never go to speak to me any more. she say. but torpenhow be look at dick. 
what a stock of vanity the man ha. i ll take him in hand to morrow and make much of him. he deserve it. eh. what be that be. 
nothing. i ll put thing tidy here a little and then i ll go. you couldn t give the that three month pay now could you. he say you be to. 
torpenhow give her a check and go to his own room. bessie faithfully tidy up the studio set the door ajar for flight empty half a bottle of turpentine on a duster and begin to scrub the face of the melancolia viciously. the paint do not smudge quickly enough. she take a palette knife and scrap follow each stroke with the wet duster. in five minute the picture be a formless scar muddle of colour. she throw the paint stain duster into the studio stave stick out her tongue at the sleeper and whisper bilk. a she turn to run down the staircase. she would never see torpenhow any more but she have at least do harm to the man who have come between her and her desire and who use to make fun of her. cash the check be the very cream of the jest to bessie. then the little privateer sail across the thames to be swallow up in the gray wilderness of south the water. 
dick sleep till late in the even when torpenhow drag him off to bed. his eye be a bright a his voice be hoarse. let s have another look at the picture he say insistently a a child. 
you go to bed say torpenhow. you aren t at all well though you mayn t know it. you re a jumpy a a cat. 
i reform to morrow. good night. 
a he repassed through the studio torpenhow lift the cloth above the picture and almost betray himself by outcry. wipe out. scrap out and turped out. he s on the verge of jump a it be. that s be the little fiend. only a woman could have do that. with the ink not dry on the check too. dick will be rave mad to morrow. it be all my fault for try to help gutter devil. oh my poor dick the lord be hit you very hard. 
dick could not sleep that night partly for pure joy and partly because the well know catherine wheel inside his eye have give place to crackle volcano of many colour fire. spout away he say aloud. 
i ve do my work and now you can do what you please. he lay still star at the ceiling the long pen up delirium of drink in his vein his brain on fire with race thought that would not stay to be consider and his hand crisp and dry. he have just discover that he be paint the face of the melancolia on a revolve dome rib with million of light and that all his wondrous thought stand embody hundred of foot below his tiny swing plank shout together in his honour when something crack inside his temple like an overstrain bowstring the glitter dome break inward and he be alone in the thick night. 
i ll go to sleep. the room s very dark. let s light a lamp and see how the melancolia look. there ought to have be a moon. 
it be then that torpenhow hear his name call by a voice that he do not know in the rattle accent of deadly fear. 
he s look at the picture be his first think a he hurry into the bedroom and find dick sit up and beat the air with his hand. 
torp. torp. where be you. for pity s sake come to me. 
what s the matter. 
dick clutch at his shoulder. matter. i ve be lie here for hour in the dark and you never hear me. torp old man don t go away. i m all in the dark. in the dark i tell you. 
torpenhow hold the candle within a foot of dick s eye but there be no light in those eye. he light the gas and dick hear the flame catch. the grip of his finger on torpenhow s shoulder make torpenhow wince. 
don t leave me. you wouldn t leave me alone now would you. i can t see. d you understand. it s black quite black and i feel a if i be fall through it all. 
steady doe it. torpenhow put his arm round dick and begin to rock him gently to and fro. 
that s good. now don t talk. if i keep very quiet for a while this darkness will lift. it seem just on the point of break. h sh. dick knit his brow and star desperately in front of him. the night air be chill torpenhow s toe. 
can you stay like that a minute. he say. i ll get my dress gown and some slipper. 
dick clutch the bed head with both hand and wait for the darkness to clear away. what a time you ve be. he cry when torpenhow return. it s a black a ever. what be you bang about in the door way. 
long chair horse blanket pillow. go to sleep by you. lie down now. you ll be good in the morning. 
i shan t. the voice rise to a wail. my god. i m blind. i m blind and the darkness will never go away. he make a if to leap from the bed but torpenhow s arm be round him and torpenhow s chin be on his shoulder and his breath be squeeze out of him. he could only gasp blind. and wriggle feebly. 
steady dickie steady. say the deep voice in his ear and the grip tighten. bite on the bullet old man and don t let them think you re afraid the grip could draw no close. both men be breathe heavily. 
dick throw his head from side to side and groan. 
let me go he pant. you re crack my rib. we we mustn t let them think we re afraid must we all the power of darkness and that lot. 
lie down. it s all over now. 
yes say dick obediently. but would you mind let me hold your hand. i feel a if i want something to hold on to. one drop through the dark so. 
torpenhow thrust out a large and hairy paw from the long chair. dick clutch it tightly and in half an hour have fall asleep. torpenhow withdraw his hand and stoop over dick kiss him lightly on the forehead a men do sometimes kiss a wound comrade in the hour of death to ease his departure. 
in the gray dawn torpenhow hear dick talk to himself. he be adrift on the shoreless tide of delirium speak very quickly it s a pity a great pity. but it s help and it must be eat master george. sufficient unto the day be the blindness thereof and further put aside all melancolias and false humour it be of obvious notoriety such a mine be that the queen can do no wrong. torp doesn t know that. i ll tell him when we re a little farther into the desert. 
what a bungle those boatman be make of the steamer rope. they ll have that four inch hawser chafe through in a minute. i tell you so there she go. white foam on green water and the steamer slew round. how good that look. i ll sketch it. no i can t. i m afflict with ophthalmia. that be one of the ten plague of egypt and it extend up the nile in the shape of cataract. ha. that s a joke torp. laugh you grave image and stand clear of the hawser. it ll knock you into the water and make your dress all dirty maisie dear. 
oh. say torpenhow. this happen before. that night on the river. 
she ll be sure to say it s my fault if you get muddy and you re quite near enough to the breakwater. maisie that s not fair. ah. i know you d miss. 
low and to the leave dear. but you ve no conviction. don t be angry darling. i d cut my hand off if it would give you anything more than obstinacy. my right hand if it would serve. 
now we mustn t listen. here s an island shout across sea of misunderstand with a vengeance. but it s shout truth i fancy say torpenhow. 
the babble continue. it all bore upon maisie. sometimes dick lecture at length on his craft then he curse himself for his folly in be enslave. he plead to maisie for a kiss only one kiss before she go away and call to her to come back from vitry sur marne if she would. but through all his raving he bid heaven and earth witness that the queen could do no wrong. 
torpenhow listen attentively and learn every detail of dick s life that have be hide from him. for three day dick rave through the past and then a natural sleep. what a strain he ha be run under poor chap. say torpenhow. dick of all men hand himself over like a dog. and i be lecture him on arrogance. i ought to have know that it be no use to judge a man. but i do it. what a demon that girl must be. dick s give her his life confound him. and she s give him one kiss apparently. 
torp say dick from the bed go out for a walk. you ve be here too long. i ll get up. hi. this be annoy. i can t dress myself. oh it s too absurd. 
torpenhow help him into his clothe and lead him to the big chair in the studio. he sit quietly wait under strain nerve for the darkness to lift. it do not lift that day nor the next. dick adventure on a voyage round the wall. he hit his shin against the stave and this suggest to him that it would be good to crawl on all four one hand in front of him. torpenhow find him on the floor. 
i m try to get the geography of my new possession say he. d you remember that nigger you gouge in the square. pity you didn t keep the odd eye. it would have be useful. any letter for me. give me all the one in fat gray envelope with a sort of crown thing outside. they re of no importance. 
torpenhow give him a letter with a black m. on the envelope flap. dick put it into his pocket. there be nothing in it that torpenhow might not have read but it belong to himself and to maisie who would never belong to him. 
when she find that i don t write she ll stop write. it s good so. i couldn t be any use to her now dick argue and the tempter suggest that he should make know his condition. every nerve in him revolt. i have fall low enough already. i m not go to beg for pity. besides it would be cruel to her. he strive to put maisie out of his thought. but the blind have many opportunity for think and a the tide of his strength come back to him in the long employless day of dead darkness dick s soul be trouble to the core. another letter and another come from maisie. then there be silence and dick sit by the window the pulse of summer in the air and picture her be win by another man strong than himself. his imagination the keen for the dark background it work against spar him no single detail that might send him rag up and down the studio to stumble over the stave that seem to be in four place at once. bad of all tobacco would not taste in the darkness. the arrogance of the man have disappear and in it place be settle despair that torpenhow know and blind passion that dick confide to his pillow at night. the interval between the paroxysm be fill with intolerable wait and the weight of intolerable darkness. 
come out into the park say torpenhow. you haven t stir out since the begin of thing. 
what s the use. there s no movement in the dark. and besides he pause irresolutely at the head of the stair something will run over me. 
not if i m with you. proceed gingerly. 
the roar of the street fill dick with nervous terror and he cling to torpenhow s arm. fancy have to feel for a gutter with your foot. he say petulantly a he turn into the park. let s curse god and die. 
sentry be forbid to pay unauthorised compliment. by jove there be the guard. 
dick s figure straighten. let s get near em. let s go in and look. let s get on the grass and run. i can smell the tree. 
mind the low rail. that s all right. torpenhow kick out a tuft of grass with his heel. smell that he say. isn t it good. dick sniff luxuriously. now pick up your foot and run. they approach a near to the regiment a be possible. the clank of bayonet be unfixed make dick s nostril quiver. 
let s get near. they re in column aren t they. 
yes. how do you know. 
felt it. oh my men. my beautiful men. he edge forward a though he could see. i could draw those chap once. who ll draw em now. 
they ll move off in a minute. don t jump when the band begin. 
huh. i m not a new charger. it s the silence that hurt. near torp. near. oh my god what wouldn t i give to see em for a minute. one half minute. 
he could hear the arm life almost within reach of him could hear the sling tighten across the bandsman s chest a he heave the big drum from the grind. 
stick cross above his head whisper torpenhow. 
i know. i know. who should know if i don t. h sh. 
the drum stick fell with a boom and the men swing forward to the crash of the band. dick felt the wind of the mass movement in his face hear the madden tramp of foot and the friction of the pouch on the belt. the big drum pound out the tune. it be a music hall refrain that make a perfect quickstep. 
he must be a man of decent height he must be a man of weight he must come home on a saturday night in a thoroughly sober state. he must know how to love me and he must know how to kiss. and if he s enough to keep u both i can t refuse him bliss. 
what s the matter. say torpenhow a he saw dick s head fall when the last of the regiment have depart. 
nothing. i feel a little bite out of the run that s all. torp take me back. why do you bring me out. 
chapter xii. 
there be three friend that bury the fourth the mould in his mouth and the dust in his eye and they go south and east and north the strong man fight but the sick man dy. 
there be three friend that speak of the dead the strong man fight but the sick man dy. and would he be with u now they say the sun in our face and the wind in our eye. 
ballad. 
the nilghai be angry with torpenhow. dick have be send to bed blind men be ever under the order of those who can see and since he have return from the park have fluently swear at torpenhow because he be alive and all the world because it be alive and could see while he dick be dead in the death of the blind who at the best be only burden upon their associate. torpenhow have say something about a mr. gummidge and dick have retire in a black fury to handle and re handle three unopened letter from maisie. 
the nilghai fat burly and aggressive be in torpenhow s room. 
behind him sit the keneu the great war eagle and between them lay a large map embellish with black and white head pin. 
i be wrong about the balkan say the nilghai. but i m not wrong about this business. the whole of our work in the southern soudan must be do over again. the public doesn t care of course but the government doe and they be make their arrangement quietly. you know that a well a i do. 
i remember how the people curse u when our troop withdraw from omdurman. it be bind to crop up sooner or late. but i can t go say torpenhow. he point through the open door. it be a hot night. can you blame me. 
the keneu purr above his pipe like a large and very happy cat don t blame you in the least. it s uncommonly good of you and all the rest of it but every man even you torp must consider his work. i know it sound brutal but dick s out of the race down gastados expend finish do for. he ha a little money of his own. he win t starve and you can t pull out of your slide for his sake. think of your own reputation. 
dick s be five time big than mine and yours put together. 
that be because he sign his name to everything he do. it s all end now. you must hold yourself in readiness to move out. you can command your own price and you do good work than any three of u. 
don t tell me how tempt it be. i ll stay here to look after dick for a while. he s a cheerful a a bear with a sore head but i think he like to have me near him. 
the nilghai say something uncomplimentary about soft head fool who throw away their career for other fool. torpenhow flush angrily. the constant strain of attendance on dick have wear his nerve thin. 
there remain a third fate say the keneu thoughtfully. consider this and be not large fool than necessary. dick be or rather be an able body man of moderate attraction and a certain amount of audacity. 
oho. say the nilghai who remember an affair at cairo. i begin to see torp i m sorry. 
torpenhow nod forgiveness. you be more sorry when he cut you out though. go on keneu. 
i ve often think when i ve see men die out in the desert that if the news could be send through the world and the mean of transport be quick enough there would be one woman at least at each man s bedside. 
there would be some mighty quaint revelation. let u be grateful thing be a they be say the nilghai. 
let u rather reverently consider whether torp s three corner ministration be exactly what dick need just now. what do you think yourself torp. 
i know they aren t. but what can i do. 
lay the matter before the board. we be all dick s friend here. you ve be most in his life. 
but i pick it up when he be off his head. 
the great chance of it be true. i think we should arrive. who be she. 
then torpenhow tell a tale in plain word a a special correspondent who know how to make a verbal precis should tell it. the men listen without interruption. 
be it possible that a man can come back across the year to his calf love. say the keneu. be it possible. 
i give the fact. he say nothing about it now but he sit fumble three letter from her when he think i m not look. what be i to do. 
speak to him say the nilghai. 
oh yes. write to her i don t know her full name remember and ask her to accept him out of pity. i believe you once tell dick you be sorry for him nilghai. you remember what happen eh. go into the bedroom and suggest full confession and an appeal to this maisie girl whoever she be. i honestly believe he d try to kill you. and the blindness ha make him rather muscular. 
torpenhow s course be perfectly clear say the keneu. he will go to vitry sur marne which be on the bezieres land railway single track from tourgas. the prussian shell it out in because there be a poplar on the top of a hill eighteen hundred yard from the church spire there s a squadron of cavalry quarter there or ought to be. where this studio torp speak about may be i cannot tell. that be torp s business. i have give him his route. he will dispassionately explain the situation to the girl and she will come back to dick the more especially because to use dick s word there be nothing but her damn obstinacy to keep them apart. 
and they have four hundred and twenty pound a year between em. 
dick never lose his head for figure even in his delirium. you haven t the shadow of an excuse for not go say the nilghai. 
torpenhow look very uncomfortable. but it s absurd and impossible. i can t drag her back by the hair. 
our business the business for which we draw our money be to do absurd and impossible thing generally with no reason whatever except to amuse the public. here we have a reason. the rest doesn t matter. i shall share these room with the nilghai till torpenhow return. there will be a batch of unbridle special come to town in a little while and these will serve a their headquarter. another reason for send torpenhow away. thus providence help those who help others and here the keneu drop his measure speech we can t have you tie by the leg to dick when the trouble begin. it s your only chance of get away. and dick will be grateful. 
he will bad luck. i can but go and try. i can t conceive a woman in her sens refuse dick. 
talk that out with the girl. i have see you wheedle an angry mahdieh woman into give you date. this win t be a tithe a difficult. you have good not be here to morrow afternoon because the nilghai and i will be in possession. it be an order. obey. 
dick say torpenhow next morning can i do anything for you. 
no. leave me alone. how often must i remind you that i m blind. 
nothing i could go for to fetch for to carry for to bring. 
no. take those infernal creak boot of yours away. 
poor chap. say torpenhow to himself. i must have be sit on his nerve lately. he want a light step. then aloud very well. since you re so independent i m go off for four or five day. say good bye at least. the housekeeper will look after you and keneu ha my room. 
dick s face fell. you win t be long than a week at the outside. i know i m touch in the temper but i can t get on without you. 
can t you. you ll have to do without me in a little time and you ll be glad i m go. 
dick felt his way back to the big chair and wonder what these thing might mean. he do not wish to be tend by the housekeeper and yet torpenhow s constant tenderness jar on him. he do not exactly know what he want. the darkness would not lift and maisie s unopened letter felt wear and old from much handle. he could never read them for himself a long a life endure. but maisie might have send him some fresh one to play with. the nilghai enter with a gift a piece of red model wax. he fancy that dick might find interest in use his hand. dick poke and pat the stuff for a few minute and be it like anything in the world. he say drearily. take it away. i may get the touch of the blind in fifty year. do you know where torpenhow ha go. 
the nilghai know nothing. we re stay in his room till he come back. can we do anything for you. 
i d like to be leave alone please. don t think i m ungrateful. but i m best alone. 
the nilghai chuckle and dick resume his drowsy brood and sullen rebellion against fate. he have long since cease to think about the work he have do in the old day and the desire to do more work have depart from him. he be exceedingly sorry for himself and the completeness of his tender grief soothe him. but his soul and his body cry for maisie maisie who would understand. his mind point out that maisie have her own work to do would not care. his experience have teach him that when money be exhaust woman go away and that when a man be knock out of the race the others trample on him. then at the least say dick in reply she could use me a i use binat for some sort of a study. i wouldn t ask more than to be near her again even though i know that another man be make love to her. ugh. what a dog i be. 
a voice on the staircase begin to sing joyfully. 
when we go go go away from here our creditor will weep and they will wail our absence much regret when they find that they ve be get out of england by next tuesday s indian mail. 
follow the trample of foot slam of torpenhow s door and the sound of voice in strenuous debate some one squeak and see you good fellow i have find a new water bottle fir class patent eh how you say. open himself inside out. 
dick spring to his foot. he know the voice well. that s cassavetti come back from the continent. now i know why torp go away. there s a row somewhere and i m out of it. 
the nilghai command silence in vain. that s for my sake dick say bitterly. the bird be get ready to fly and they wouldn t tell me. i can hear morten sutherland and mackaye. half the war correspondent in london be there. and i m out of it. 
he stumble across the land and plunge into torpenhow s room. he could feel that it be full of men. where s the trouble. say he. in the balkan at last. why didn t some one tell me. 
we think you wouldn t be interest say the nilghai shamefacedly. 
it s in the soudan a usual. 
you lucky dog. let me sit here while you talk. i shan t be a skeleton at the feast. cassavetti where be you. your english be a bad a ever. 
dick be lead into a chair. he hear the rustle of the map and the talk sweep forward carry him with it. everybody speak at once discuss press censorship railway route transport water supply the capacity of general these in language that would have horrify a trust public rangint assert denounce and laugh at the top of their voice. there be the glorious certainty of war in the soudan at any moment. the nilghai say so and it be well to be in readiness. the keneu have telegraph to cairo for horse. cassavetti have steal a perfectly inaccurate list of troop that would be order forward and be read it out amid profane interruption and the keneu introduce to dick some man unknown who would be employ a war artist by the central southern syndicate. it s his first out say the keneu. give him some tip about rid camel. 
oh those camel. groan cassavetti. i shall learn to ride him again and now i be so much all soft. listen you good fellow. i know your military arrangement very well. there will go the royal argalshire sutherlanders. so it be read to me upon best authority. 
a roar of laughter interrupt him. 
sit down say the nilghai. the list aren t even make out in the war office. 
will there be any force at suakin. aid a voice. 
then the outcry redouble and grow mix thus. how many egyptian troop will they use. god help the fellah. there s a railway in plumstead marsh do duty a a five court. we shall have the suakin berber line build at last. canadian voyageurs be too careful. give me a half drink krooman in a whale boat. who command the desert column. no they never blow up the big rock in the ghineh bend. we shall have to be haul up a usual. somebody tell me if there s an indian contingent or i ll break everybody s head. don t tear the map in two. it s a war of occupation i tell you to connect with the african company in the south. there s guinea worm in most of the well on that route. then the nilghai despair of peace bellow like a fog horn and beat upon the table with both hand. 
but what become of torpenhow. say dick in the silence that follow. 
torp s in abeyance just now. he s off love make somewhere i suppose say the nilghai. 
he say he be go to stay at home say the keneu. 
be he. say dick with an oath. he win t. i m not much good now but if you and the nilghai hold him down i ll engage to trample on him till he see reason. he ll stay behind indeed. he s the best of you all. there ll be some tough work by omdurman. we shall come there to stay this time. 
but i forget. i wish i be go with you. 
so do we all dickie say the keneu. 
and i most of all say the new artist of the central southern syndicate. 
could you tell me. 
i ll give you one piece of advice dick answer move towards the door. if you happen to be cut over the head in a scrimmage don t guard. 
tell the man to go on cut. you ll find it cheap in the end. thank for let me look in. 
there s grit in dick say the nilghai an hour late when the room be empty of all save the keneu. 
it be the sacred call of the war trumpet. do you notice how he answer to it. poor fellow. let s look at him say the keneu. 
the excitement of the talk have die away. dick be sit by the studio table with his head on his arm when the men come in. he do not change his position. 
it hurt he moan. god forgive me but it hurt cruelly. and yet y know the world ha a knack of spin round all by itself. shall i see torp before he go. 
oh yes. you ll see him say the nilghai. 
chapter xiii. 
the sun go down an hour ago i wonder if i face towards home. if i lose my way in the light of day how shall i find it now night be come. 
old song. 
maisie come to bed. 
it s so hot i can t sleep. don t worry. 
maisie put her elbow on the window sill and look at the moonlight on the straight poplar flank road. summer have come upon vitry sur marne and parch it to the bone. the grass be dry burn in the meadow the clay by the bank of the river be cake to brick the roadside flower be long since dead and the rose in the garden hang wither on their stalk. the heat in the little low bedroom under the eaves be almost intolerable. the very moonlight on the wall of kami s studio across the road seem to make the night hot and the shadow of the big bell handle by the close gate cast a bar of inky black that catch maisie s eye and annoy her. 
horrid thing. it should be all white she murmur. and the gate isn t in the middle of the wall either. i never notice that before. 
maisie be hard to please at that hour. first the heat of the past few week have wear her down. secondly her work and particularly the study of a female head intend to represent the melancolia and not finish in time for the salon be unsatisfactory. thirdly kami have say a much two day before. fourthly but so completely fourthly that it be hardly worth think about dick her property have not write to her for more than six week. she be angry with the heat with kami and with her work but she be exceedingly angry with dick. 
she have write to him three time each time propose a fresh treatment of her melancolia. dick have take no notice of these communication. she have resolve to write no more. when she return to england in the autumn for her pride s sake she could not return early she would speak to him. she miss the sunday afternoon conference more than she care to admit. all that kami say be continuez mademoiselle continuez toujours and he have be repeat the wearisome counsel through the hot summer exactly like a cicada an old gray cicada in a black alpaca coat white trouser and a huge felt hat. 
but dick have tramp masterfully up and down her little studio north of the cool green london park and have say thing ten time bad than continuez before he snatch the brush out of her hand and show her where the error lay. his last letter maisie remember contain some trivial advice about not sketch in the sun or drink water at wayside farmhouse. and he have say that not once but three time a if he do not know that maisie could take care of herself. 
but what be he do that he could not trouble to write. a murmur of voice in the road make her lean from the window. a cavalryman of the little garrison in the town be talk to kami s cook. the moonlight glitter on the scabbard of his sabre which he be hold in his hand l it should clank inopportunely. the cook s cap cast deep shadow on her face which be close to the conscript s. he slide his arm round her waist and there follow the sound of a kiss. 
faugh. say maisie step back. 
what s that. say the red haired girl who be toss uneasily outside her bed. 
only a conscript kiss the cook say maisie. 
they ve go away now. she lean out of the window again and put a shawl over her nightgown to guard against chill. there be a very small night breeze abroad and a sun bake rise below nod it head a one who know unutterable secret. be it possible that dick should turn his thought from her work and his own and descend to the degradation of suzanne and the conscript. he could not. the rise nod it head and one leaf therewith. it look like a naughty little devil scratch it ear. 
dick could not because think maisie he be mind mine mine. he say he be. i m sure i don t care what he doe. it will only spoil his work if he doe. and it will spoil mine too. 
the rise continue to nod it the futile way peculiar to flower. there be no earthly reason why dick should not disport himself a he choose except that he be call by providence which be maisie to assist maisie in her work. and her work be the preparation of picture that go sometimes to english provincial exhibition a the notice in the scrap book prove and that be invariably reject by the salon when kami be plague into allow her to send them up. her work in the future it seem would be the preparation of picture on exactly similar line which would be reject in exactly the same way the red haired girl thresh distressfully across the sheet. it s too hot to sleep she moan. and the interruption jar. 
exactly the same way. then she would divide her year between the little studio in england and kami s big studio at vitry sur marne. no she would go to another master who should force her into the success that be her right if patient toil and desperate endeavour give one a right to anything. dick have tell her that he have work ten year to understand his craft. she have work ten year and ten year be nothing. dick have say that ten year be nothing but that be in regard to herself only. he have say this very man who could not find time to write that he would wait ten year for her and that she be bind to come back to him sooner or late. he have say this in the absurd letter about sunstroke and diphtheria. and then he have stop write. he be wander up and down moonlit street kiss cook. she would like to lecture him now not in her nightgown of course but properly dress severely and from a height. yet if he be kiss other girl he certainly would not care whether she lecture him or not. he would laugh at her. very good. 
she would go back to her studio and prepare picture that go etc. etc. 
the mill wheel of think swing round slowly that no section of it might be slur over and the red haired girl toss and turn behind her. 
maisie put her chin in her hand and decide that there could be no doubt whatever of the villainy of dick. to justify herself she begin unwomanly to weigh the evidence. there be a boy and he have say he love her. and he kiss her kiss her on the cheek by a yellow sea poppy that nod it head exactly like the madden dry rise in the garden. then there be an interval and men have tell her that they love her just when she be busy with her work. then the boy come back and at their very second meet have tell her that he love her. then he have but there be no end to the thing he have do. he have give her his time and his power. he have speak to her of art housekeep technique teacup the abuse of pickle a a stimulant that be rude sable hair brush he have give her the best in her stock she use them daily. he have give her advice that she profit by and now and again a look. such a look. the look of a beat hound wait for the word to crawl to his mistress s foot. in return she have give him nothing whatever except here she brush her mouth against the open work sleeve f her nightgown the privilege of kiss her once. and on the mouth too. disgraceful. be that not enough and more than enough. and if it be not have he not cancel the debt by not write and probably kiss other girl. maisie you ll catch a chill. do go and lie down say the weary voice of her companion. i can t sleep a wink with you at the window. 
maisie shrug her shoulder and do not answer. she be reflect on the meanness of dick and on other meanness with which he have nothing to do. the moonlight would not let her sleep. it lay on the skylight of the studio across the road in cold silver. she star at it intently and her thought begin to slide one into the other. the shadow of the big bell handle in the wall grow short lengthen again and fade out a the moon go down behind the pasture and a hare come limp home across the road. then the dawn wind wash through the upland grass and bring coolness with it and the cattle low by the drought shrink river. maisie s head fell forward on the window sill and the tangle of black hair cover her arm. 
maisie wake up. you ll catch a chill. 
yes dear. yes dear. she stagger to her bed like a weary child and a she bury her face in the pillow she mutter i think i think. 
but he ought to have write. 
day bring the routine of the studio the smell of paint and turpentine and the monotone wisdom of kami who be a leaden artist but a golden teacher if the pupil be only in sympathy with him. maisie be not in sympathy that day and she wait impatiently for the end of the work. 
she know when it be come. for kami would gather his black alpaca coat into a bunch behind him and with fade flue eye that saw neither pupil nor canvas look back into the past to recall the history of one binat. you have all do not so badly he would say. but you shall remember that it be not enough to have the method and the art and the power nor even that which be touch but you shall have also the conviction that nail the work to the wall. of the so many i teach here the student would begin to unfix draw pin or get their tube together the very so many that i have teach the best be binat. all that come of the study and the work and the knowledge be to him even when he come. after he leave me he should have do all that could be do with the colour the form and the knowledge. only he have not the conviction. so to day i hear no more of binat the best of my pupil and that be long ago. so to day too you will be glad to hear no more of me. continuez mademoiselle and above all with conviction. 
he go into the garden to smoke and mourn over the lose binat a the pupil disperse to their several cottage or loiter in the studio to make plan for the cool of the afternoon. 
maisie look at her very unhappy melancolia restrain a desire to grimace before it and be hurry across the road to write a letter to dick when she be aware of a large man on a white troop horse. how torpenhow have manage in the course of twenty hour to find his way to the heart of the cavalry officer in quarter at vitry sur marne to discus with them the certainty of a glorious revenge for france to reduce the colonel to tear of pure affability and to borrow the best horse in the squadron for the journey to kami s studio be a mystery that only special correspondent can unravel. 
i beg your pardon say he. it seem an absurd question to ask but the fact be that i don t know her by any other name. be there any young lady here that be call maisie. 
i be maisie be the answer from the depth of a great sun hat. 
i ought to introduce myself he say a the horse caper in the blind white dust. my name be torpenhow. dick heldar be my best friend and and the fact be that he ha go blind. 
blind. say maisie stupidly. he can t be blind. 
he ha be stone blind for nearly two month. 
maisie lift up her face and it be pearly white. no. no. not blind. i win t have him blind. 
would you care to see for yourself. say torpenhow. 
now at once. 
oh no. the paris train doesn t go through this place till to night. there will be ample time. 
do mr. heldar send you to me. 
certainly not. dick wouldn t do that sort of thing. he s sit in his studio turn over some letter that he can t read because he s blind. 
there be a sound of choke from the sun hat. maisie bow her head and go into the cottage where the red haired girl be on a sofa complain of a headache. 
dick s blind. say maisie take her breath quickly a she steady herself against a chair back. my dick s blind. 
what. the girl be on the sofa no long. 
a man ha come from england to tell me. he hasn t write to me for six week. 
be you go to him. 
i must think. 
think. i should go back to london and see him and i should kiss his eye and kiss them and kiss them until they get well again. if you don t go i shall. oh what be i talk about. you wicked little idiot. go to him at once. go. 
torpenhow s neck be blister but he preserve a smile of infinite patience a maisie s appear bareheaded in the sunshine. 
i be come say she her eye on the grind. 
you will be at vitry station then at seven this even. this be an order deliver by one who be use to be obey. maisie say nothing but she felt grateful that there be no chance of dispute with this big man who take everything for grant and manage a squeal horse with one hand. she return to the red haired girl who be weep bitterly and between tear kiss very few of those menthol pack and an interview with kami the sultry afternoon wear away. 
think might come afterwards. her present duty be to go to dick dick who own the wondrous friend and sit in the dark play with her unopened letter. 
but what will you do she say to her companion. 
i. oh i shall stay here and finish your melancolia she say smile pitifully. write to me afterwards. 
that night there run a legend through vitry sur marne of a mad englishman doubtless suffer from sunstroke who have drink all the officer of the garrison under the table have borrow a horse from the line and have then and there elope after the english custom with one of those more mad english girl who draw picture down there under the care of that good monsieur kami. 
they be very droll say suzanne to the conscript in the moonlight by the studio wall. she walk always with those big eye that saw nothing and yet she kiss me on both cheek a though she be my sister and give me see ten franc. 
the conscript levy a contribution on both gift. for he pride himself on be a good soldier. 
torpenhow speak very little to maisie during the journey to calais. but he be careful to attend to all her want to get her a compartment entirely to herself and to leave her alone. he be amaze of the ease with which the matter have be accomplish. 
the safe thing would be to let her think thing out. by dick s show when he be off his head she must have order him about very thoroughly. wonder how she like be under order. 
maisie never tell. she sit in the empty compartment often with her eye shut that she might realise the sensation of blindness. it be an order that she should return to london swiftly and she find herself at last almost begin to enjoy the situation. this be good than look after luggage and a red haired friend who never take any interest in her surround. but there appear to be a feel in the air that she maisie of all people be in disgrace. therefore she justify her conduct to herself with great success till torpenhow come up to her on the steamer and without preface begin to tell the story of dick s blindness suppress a few detail but dwell at length on the misery of delirium. he stop before he reach the end a though he have lose interest in the subject and go forward to smoke. maisie be furious with him and with herself. 
she be hurry on from dover to london almost before she could ask for breakfast and she be past any feel of indignation now be bid curtly to wait in a hall at the foot of some lead cover stair while torpenhow go up to make inquiry. again the knowledge that she be be treat like a naughty little girl make her pale cheek flame. it be all dick s fault for be so stupid a to go blind. 
torpenhow lead her up to a shut door which he open very softly. dick be sit by the window with his chin on his chest. there be three envelope in his hand and he turn them over and over. the big man who give order be no long by her side and the studio door snap behind her. 
dick thrust the letter into his pocket a he hear the sound. hullo topr. be that you. i ve be so lonely. 
his voice have take the peculiar flatness of the blind. maisie press herself up into a corner of the room. her heart be beat furiously and she put one hand on her breast to keep it quiet. dick be star directly at her and she realise for the first time that he be blind. 
shut her eye in a rail way carriage to open them when she please be child s play. this man be blind though his eye be wide open. 
torp be that you. they say you be come. dick look puzzle and a little irritate at the silence. 
no. it s only me be the answer in a strain little whisper. maisie could hardly move her lip. 
h m. say dick composedly without move. this be a new phenomenon. darkness i m get use to. but i object to hear voice. 
be he mad then a well a blind that he talk to himself. maisie s heart beat more wildly and she breathe in gasp. dick rise and begin to feel his way across the room touch each table and chair a he pass. once he catch his foot on a rug and swear drop on his knee to feel what the obstruction might be. maisie remember him walk in the park a though all the earth belong to him tramp up and down her studio two month ago and fly up the gangway of the channel steamer. the beat of her heart be make her sick and dick be come near guide by the sound of her breathe. she put out a hand mechanically to ward him off or to draw him to herself she do not know which. it touch his chest and he step back a though he have be shoot. 
it s maisie. say he with a dry sob. what be you do here. 
i come i come to see you please. 
dick s lip close firmly. 
win t you sit down then. you see i ve have some bother with my eye and. 
i know. i know. why didn t you tell me. 
i couldn t write. 
you might have tell mr. torpenhow. 
what ha he to do with my affair. 
he he bring me from vitry sur marne. he think i ought to see you. 
why what ha happen. can i do anything for you. no i can t. i forget. 
oh dick i m so sorry. i ve come to tell you and let me take you back to your chair. 
don t. i m not a child. you only do that out of pity. i never mean to tell you anything about it. i m no good now. i m down and do for. let me alone. 
he grope back to his chair his chest labour a he sit down. 
maisie watch him and the fear go out of her heart to be follow by a very bitter shame. he have speak a truth that have be hide from the girl through every step of the impetuous flight to london. for he be indeed down and do for masterful no long but rather a little abject. neither an artist strong than she nor a man to be look up to only some blind one that sit in a chair and seem on the point of cry. she be immensely and unfeignedly sorry for him more sorry than she have ever be for any one in her life but not sorry enough to deny his word. 
so she stand still and felt ashamed and a little hurt because she have honestly intend that her journey should end triumphantly. and now she be only fill with pity most startlingly distinct from love. 
well. say dick his face steadily turn away. i never mean to worry you any more. what s the matter. 
he be conscious that maisie be catch her breath but be a unprepared a herself for the torrent of emotion that follow. she have drop into a chair and be sob with her face hide in her hand. 
i can t i can t. she cry desperately. indeed i can t. it isn t my fault. 
i m so sorry. oh dickie i m so sorry. 
dick s shoulder straighten again for the word lash like a whip. 
still the sob continue. it be not good to realise that you have fail in the hour of trial or flinch before the mere possibility of make sacrifice. 
i do despise myself indeed i do. but i can t. oh dickie you wouldn t ask me would you. wail maisie. 
she look up for a minute and by chance it happen that dick s eye fell on hers. the unshaven face be very white and set and the lip be try to force themselves into a smile. but it be the wear out eye that maisie fear. her dick have go blind and leave in his place some one that she could hardly recognise till he speak. 
who be ask you to do anything maisie. i tell you how it would be. 
what s the use of worry. for pity s sake don t cry like that. it isn t worth it. 
you don t know how i hate myself. oh dick help me help me. the passion of tear have grow beyond her control and be begin to alarm the man. he stumble forward and put his arm round her and her head fell on his shoulder. 
hush dear hush. don t cry. you re quite right and you ve nothing to reproach yourself with you never have. you re only a little upset by the journey and i don t suppose you ve have any breakfast. what a brute torp be to bring you over. 
i want to come. i do indeed she protest. 
very well. and now you ve come and see and i m immensely grateful. 
when you re good you shall go away and get something to eat. what sort of a passage do you have come over. 
maisie be cry more subduedly for the first time in her life glad that she have something to lean against. dick pat her on the shoulder tenderly but clumsily for he be not quite sure where her shoulder might be. 
she draw herself out of his arm at last and wait tremble and most unhappy. he have felt his way to the window to put the width of the room between them and to quiet a little the tumult in his heart. 
be you good now. he say. 
yes but don t you hate me. 
i hate you. my god. i. 
isn t isn t there anything i could do for you then. i ll stay here in england to do it if you like. perhaps i could come and see you sometimes. 
i think not dear. it would be kind not to see me any more please. i don t want to seem rude but don t you think perhaps you have almost good go now. 
he be conscious that he could not bear himself a a man if the strain continue much long. 
i don t deserve anything else. i ll go dick. oh i m so miserable. 
nonsense. you ve nothing to worry about. i d tell you if you have. wait a moment dear. i ve get something to give you first. i mean it for you ever since this little trouble begin. it s my melancolia. she be a beauty when i last saw her. you can keep her for me and if ever you re poor you can sell her. she s worth a few hundred at any state of the market. he grope among his canvas. she s frame in black. be this a black frame that i have my hand on. there she be. what do you think of her. 
he turn a scar formless muddle of paint towards maisie and the eye strain a though they would catch her wonder and surprise. one thing and one thing only could she do for him. 
well. 
the voice be full and more round because the man know he be speak of his best work. maisie look at the blur and a lunatic desire to laugh catch her by the throat. but for dick s sake whatever this mad blankness might mean she must make no sign. her voice choke with hard hold tear a she answer still gaze at the wreck oh dick it be good. 
he hear the little hysterical gulp and take it for tribute. win t you have it then. i ll send it over to your house if you will. 
i. oh yes thank you. ha. ha. if she do not fly at once the laughter that be bad than tear would kill her. she turn and run choke and blind down the staircase that be empty of life to take refuge in a cab and go to her house across the park. there she sit down in the dismantle draw room and think of dick in his blindness useless till the end of life and of herself in her own eye. behind the sorrow the shame and the humiliation lay fear of the cold wrath of the red haired girl when maisie should return. maisie have never fear her companion before. not until she find herself say well he never ask me do she realise her scorn of herself. 
and that be the end of maisie. 
* * * * *. 
for dick be reserve more search torment. he could not realise at first that maisie whom he have order to go have leave him without a word of farewell. he be savagely angry against torpenhow who have bring upon him this humiliation and trouble his miserable peace. then his dark hour come and he be alone with himself and his desire to get what help he could from the darkness. the queen could do no wrong but in follow the right so far a it serve her work she have wound her one subject more than his own brain would let him know. 
it s all i have and i ve lose it he say a soon a the misery permit clear think. and torp will think that he ha be so infernally clever that i shan t have the heart to tell him. i must think this out quietly. 
hullo. say torpenhow enter the studio after dick have enjoy two hour of think. i m back. be you feel any good. 
torp i don t know what to say. come here. dick cough huskily wonder indeed what he should say and how to say it temperately. 
what s the need for say anything. get up and tramp. torpenhow be perfectly satisfy. 
they walk up and down a of custom torpenhow s hand on dick s shoulder and dick bury in his own thought. 
how in the world do you find it all out. say dick at last. 
you shouldn t go off your head if you want to keep secret dickie. it be absolutely impertinent on my part. but if you d see me rocket about on a half train french troop horse under a blaze sun you d have laugh. there will be a charivari in my room to night. seven other devil. 
i know the row in the southern soudan. i surprise their council the other day and it make me unhappy. have you fix your flint to go. who d you work for. 
haven t sign any contract yet. i want to see how your business would turn out. 
would you have stay with me then if thing have go wrong. he put his question cautiously. 
don t ask me too much. i m only a man. 
you ve try to be an angel very successfully. 
oh ye e. well do you attend the function to night. we shall be half screw before the morning. all the men believe the war s a certainty. 
i don t think i will old man if it s all the same to you. i ll stay quiet here. 
and meditate. i don t blame you. you observe a good time if ever a man do. 
that night there be a tumult on the stair. the correspondent pour in from theatre dinner and music hall to torpenhow s room that they might discus their plan of campaign in the event of military operation become a certainty. torpenhow the keneu and the nilghai have bid all the men they have work with to the orgy. and mr. beeton the housekeeper declare that never before in his checker experience have he see quite such a fancy lot of gentleman. they wake the chamber with shouting and song. and the elder men be quite a bad a the young. for the chance of war be in front of them and all know what those mean. 
sit in his own room a little perplex by the noise across the land dick suddenly begin to laugh to himself. 
when one come to think of it the situation be intensely comic. maisie s quite right poor little thing. i didn t know she could cry like that before. but now i know what torp think i m sure he d be quite fool enough to stay at home and try to console me if he know. besides it isn t nice to own that you ve be throw over like a break chair. i must carry this business through alone a usual. if there isn t a war and torp find out i shall look foolish that s all. if there be a way i mustn t interfere with another man s chance. business be business and i want to be alone i want to be alone. what a row they re make. 
somebody hammer at the studio door. 
come out and frolic dickie say the nilghai. 
i should like to but i can t. i m not feel frolicsome. 
then i ll tell the boy and they ll drag you like a badger. 
please not old man. on my word i d sooner be leave alone just now. 
very good. can we send anything in to you. fizz for instance. 
cassavetti be begin to sing song of the sunny south already. 
for one minute dick consider the proposition seriously. 
no thank i ve a headache already. 
virtuous child. that s the effect of emotion on the young. all my congratulation dick. i also be concern in the conspiracy for your welfare. 
go to the devil oh send binkie in here. 
the little dog enter on elastic foot riotous from have be make much of all the even. he have help to sing the chorus. but scarcely inside the studio he realise that this be no place for tail wag and settle himself on dick s lap till it be bedtime. then he go to bed with dick who count every hour a it strike and rise in the morning with a painfully clear head to receive torpenhow s more formal congratulation and a particular account of the last night s revel. 
you aren t look very happy for a newly accept man say torpenhow. 
never mind that it s my own affair and i m all right. do you really go. 
yes. with the old central southern a usual. they wire and i accept on good term than before. 
when do you start. 
the day after to morrow for brindisi. 
thank god. dick speak from the bottom of his heart. 
well that s not a pretty way of say you re glad to get rid of me. but men in your condition be allow to be selfish. 
i didn t mean that. will you get a hundred pound cash for me before you leave. 
that s a slender amount for housekeep isn t it. 
oh it s only for marriage expense. 
torpenhow bring him the money count it out in five and ten and carefully put it away in the write table. 
now i suppose i shall have to listen to his raving about his girl until i go. heaven send u patience with a man in love. he say to himself. 
but never a word do dick say of maisie or marriage. he hang in the doorway of torpenhow s room when the latter be pack and ask innumerable question about the come campaign till torpenhow begin to feel annoy. 
you re a secretive animal dickie and you consume your own smoke don t you. he say on the last even. 
i i suppose so. by the way how long do you think this war will last. 
day week or month. one can never tell. it may go on for year. 
i wish i be go. 
good heaven. you re the most unaccountable creature. hasn t it occur to you that you re go to be marry thank to me. 
of course yes. i m go to be marry so i be. go to be marry. 
i m awfully grateful to you. haven t i tell you that. 
you might be go to be hang by the look of you say torpenhow. 
and the next day torpenhow bid him good bye and leave him to the loneliness he have so much desire. 
chapter xiv. 
yet at the last ere our spearmen have find him yet at the last ere a sword thrust could save yet at the last with his master around him he of the faith speak a master to slave. yet at the last tho the kafir have maim him break by bondage and wreck by the reiver yet at the last tho the darkness have claim him he call upon allah and die a believer. 
kizzilbashi. 
beg your pardon mr. heldar but but isn t nothin go to happen. say mr. beeton. 
no. dick have just wake to another morning of blank despair and his temper be of the short. 
tain t my regular business o course sir. and what i say be mind your own business and let other people mind theirs. but just before mr. 
torpenhow go away he give me to understand like that you might be move into a house of your own so to speak a sort of house with room upstairs and downstairs where you d be good attend to though i try to act just by all our tenant. don t i. 
ah. that must have be a mad house. i shan t trouble you to take me there yet. get me my breakfast please and leave me alone. 
i hope i haven t do anything wrong sir but you know i hope that a far a a man can i try to do the proper thing by all the gentleman in chamber and more particular those whose lot be hard such a you for instance mr. heldar. you like soft roe bloater don t you. soft roe bloater be scarce than hard roe but what i say be never mind a little extra trouble so long a you give satisfaction to the tenant. 
mr. beeton withdraw and leave dick to himself. torpenhow have be long away. there be no more riot in the chamber and dick have settle down to his new life which he be weak enough to consider nothing good than death. 
it be hard to live alone in the dark confuse the day and night. drop to sleep through sheer weariness at mid day and rise restless in the chill of the dawn. at first dick on his awakening would grope along the corridor of the chamber till he hear some one snore. then he would know that the day have not yet come and return wearily to his bedroom. 
late he learn not to stir till there be a noise and movement in the house and mr. beeton advise him to get up. once dress and dress now that torpenhow be away be a lengthy business because collar tie and the like hide themselves in far corner of the room and search mean head beat against chair and trunk once dress there be nothing whatever to do except to sit still and brood till the three daily meal come. century separate breakfast from lunch and lunch from dinner and though a man pray for hundred of year that his mind might be take from him god would never hear. rather the mind be quicken and the revolve thought grind against each other a millstone grind when there be no corn between. and yet the brain would not wear out and give him rest. it continue to think at length with imagery and all manner of reminiscence. it recall maisie and past success reckless travel by land and sea the glory of do work and feel that it be good and suggest all that might have happen have the eye only be faithful to their duty. when think cease through sheer weariness there pour into dick s soul tide on tide of overwhelm purposeless fear dread of starvation always terror l the unseen ceiling should crush down upon him fear of fire in the chamber and a louse s death in red flame and agony of fierce horror that have nothing to do with any fear of death. then dick bow his head and clutch the arm of his chair fight with his sweat self till the tinkle of plate tell him that something to eat be be set before him. 
mr. beeton would bring the meal when he have time to spare and dick learn to hang upon his speech which deal with badly fit gas plug waste pipe out of repair little trick for drive picture nail into wall and the sin of the charwoman or the housemaid. in the lack of good thing the small gossip of a servant hall become immensely interest and the screw of a washer on a tap an event to be talk over for day. 
once or twice a week too mr. beeton would take dick out with him when he go market in the morning to haggle with tradesman over fish lamp wick mustard tapioca and so forth while dick rest his weight first on one foot and then on the other and play aimlessly with the tin and string ball on the counter. then they would perhaps meet one of mr. beeton s friend and dick stand aside a little would hold his peace till mr. beeton be will to go on again. 
the life do not increase his self respect. he abandon shave a a dangerous exercise and be shave in a barber s shop mean exposure of his infirmity. he could not see that his clothe be properly brush and since he have never take any care of his personal appearance he become every know variety of sloven. a blind man cannot deal with cleanliness till he ha be some month use to the darkness. if he demand attendance and grow angry at the want of it he must assert himself and stand upright. then the mean menial can see that he be blind and therefore of no consequence. a wise man will keep his eye on the floor and sit still. for amusement he may pick coal lump by lump out of the scuttle with the tongs and pile it in a little heap in the fender keep count of the lump which must all be put back again one by one and very carefully. he may set himself sum if he care to work them out. he may talk to himself or to the cat if she choose to visit him. and if his trade ha be that of an artist he may sketch in the air with his forefinger. but that be too much like draw a pig with the eye shut. he may go to his bookshelf and count his book range them in order of their size. or to his wardrobe and count his shirt lay them in pile of two or three on the bed a they suffer from fray cuff or lose button. 
even this entertainment weary after a time. and all the time be very very long. 
dick be allow to sort a tool chest where mr. beeton keep hammer tap and nut length of gas pipe oil bottle and string. 
if i don t have everything just where i know where to look for it why then i can t find anything when i do want it. you ve no idea sir the amount of little thing that these chamber us up say mr. beeton. 
fumble at the handle of the door a he go out. it s hard on you sir i do think it s hard on you. ain t you go to do anything sir. 
i ll pay my rent and mess. isn t that enough. 
i wasn t doubt for a moment that you couldn t pay your way sir. but i ave often say to my wife it s ard on im because it isn t a if he be an old man nor yet a middle age one but quite a young gentleman. that s where it come so ard. 
i suppose so say dick absently. this particular nerve through long batter have cease to feel much. 
i be think continue mr. beeton still make a if to go that you might like to hear my boy alf read you the paper sometimes of an even. he do read beautiful see he s only nine. 
i should be very grateful say dick. only let me make it worth his while. 
we wasn t think of that sir but of course it s in your own ands. but only to ear alf sing a boy s best friend be be mother. ah. 
i ll hear him sing that too. let him come this even with the newspaper. 
alf be not a nice child be puff up with many school board certificate for good conduct and inordinately proud of his sing. mr. 
beeton remain beam while the child wail his way through a song of some eight eight line verse in the usual whine of a young cockney and after compliment leave him to read dick the foreign telegram. ten minute late alf return to his parent rather pale and scar. 
e say e couldn t stand it no more he explain. 
he never say you read badly alf. mr. beeton speak. 
no. e say i read beautiful. say e never eard any one read like that but e say e couldn t abide the stuff in the paper. 
p rap he s lose some money in the stock. be you readin him about stock alf. 
no. it be all about fightin out there where the soldier be go a great long piece with all the line close together and very hard word in it. e give me arf a crown because i read so well. and e say the next time there s anything e want read e ll send for me. 
that s good hear but i do think for all the half crown put it into the kick donkey money box alf and let me see you do it he might have keep you long. why he couldn t have begin to understand how beautiful you read. 
he s best leave to hisself gentleman always be when they re downhearted say mr. beeton. 
alf s rigorously limit power of comprehend torpenhow s special correspondence have wake the devil of unrest in dick. he could hear through the boy s nasal chant the camel grunt in the square behind the soldier outside suakin. could hear the men swear and chaff across the cook pot and could smell the acrid wood smoke a it drift over camp before the wind of the desert. 
that night he pray to god that his mind might be take from him offer for proof that he be worthy of this favour the fact that he have not shoot himself long ago. that prayer be not answer and indeed dick know in his heart of heart that only a linger sense of humour and no special virtue have keep him alive. suicide he have persuade himself would be a ludicrous insult to the gravity of the situation a well a a weak kneed confession of fear. 
just for the fun of the thing he say to the cat who have take binkie s place in his establishment i should like to know how long this be go to last. i can live for a year on the hundred pound torp cash for me. i must have two or three thousand at least in the bank twenty or thirty year more provide for that be to say. then i fall back on my hundred and twenty a year which will be more by that time. let s consider. 
twenty five thirty five a man s in his prime then they say forty five a middle age man just enter politics fifty five die at the comparatively early age of fifty five accord to the newspaper. bah. how these christian funk death. sixty five we re only get on in year. seventy five be just possible though. great hell cat o. fifty year more of solitary confinement in the dark. you ll die and beeton will die and torp will die and mai everybody else will die but i shall be alive and kick with nothing to do. i m very sorry for myself. i should like some one else to be sorry for me. evidently i m not go ma before i die but the pain s just a bad a ever. some day when you re vivisect cat o. they ll tie you down on a little table and cut you open but don t be afraid. they ll take precious good care that you don t die. you ll live and you ll be very sorry then that you weren t sorry for me. perhaps torp will come back or. i wish i could go to torp and the nilghai even though i be in their way. 
pussy leave the room before the speech be end and alf a he enter find dick address the empty hearth rug. 
there s a letter for you sir he say. perhaps you d like me to read it. 
lend it to me for a minute and i ll tell you. 
the outstretched hand shake just a little and the voice be not over steady. it be within the limit of human possibility that that be no letter from maisie. he know the heft of three close envelope only too well. it be a foolish hope that the girl should write to him for he do not realise that there be a wrong which admit of no reparation though the evildoer may with tear and the heart s best love strive to mend all. it be best to forget that wrong whether it be cause or endure since it be a remediless a bad work once put forward. 
read it then say dick and alf begin intone accord to the rule of the board school i could have give you love i could have give you loyalty such a you never dream of. do you suppose i care what you be. but you choose to whistle everything down the wind for nothing. my only excuse for you be that you be so young. that s all he say return the paper to be drop into the fire. 
what be in the letter. ask mr. beeton when alf return. 
i don t know. i think it be a circular or a tract about not whistlin at everything when you re young. 
i must have step on something when i be alive and walk about and it ha bounce up and hit me. god help it whatever it be unless it be all a joke. but i don t know any one who d take the trouble to play a joke on me. love and loyalty for nothing. it sound tempt enough. 
i wonder whether i have lose anything really. 
dick consider for a long time but could not remember when or how he have put himself in the way of win these trifle at a woman s hand. 
still the letter a touch on matter that he prefer not to think about sting him into a fit of frenzy that last for a day and night. when his heart be so full of despair that it would hold no more body and soul together seem to be drop without check through the darkness. 
then come fear of darkness and desperate attempt to reach the light again. but there be no light to be reach. when that agony have leave him sweat and breathless the downward flight would recommence till the gather torture of it spur him into another fight a hopeless a the first. follow some few minute of sleep in which he dream that he saw. then the procession of event would repeat itself till he be utterly wear out and the brain take up it everlasting consideration of maisie and might have beens. 
at the end of everything mr. beeton come to his room and volunteer to take him out. not market this time but we ll go into the park if you like. 
be damn if i do quoth dick. keep to the street and walk up and down. i like to hear the people round me. 
this be not altogether true. the blind in the first stage of their infirmity dislike those who can move with a free stride and unlifted arm but dick have no earthly desire to go to the park. once and only once since maisie have shut her door he have go there under alf s charge. alf forget him and fish for minnow in the serpentine with some companion. after half an hour s wait dick almost weep with rage and wrath catch a passer by who introduce him to a friendly policeman who lead him to a four wheeler opposite the albert hall. he never tell mr. beeton of alf s forgetfulness but. this be not the manner in which he be use to walk the park aforetime. 
what street would you like to walk down then. say mr. beeton sympathetically. his own idea of a riotous holiday mean picnic on the grass of green park with his family and half a dozen paper bag full of food. 
keep to the river say dick and they keep to the river and the rush of it be in his ear till they come to blackfriar bridge and strike thence on to the waterloo road mr. beeton explain the beauty of the scenery a he go on. 
and walk on the other side of the pavement say he unless i m much mistake be the young woman that use to come to your room to be draw. i never forget a face and i never remember a name except pay tenant o course. 
stop her say dick. it s bessie break. tell her i d like to speak to her again. quick man. 
mr. beeton cross the road under the nose of the omnibus and arrest bessie then on her way northward. she recognise him a the man in authority who use to glare at her when she pass up dick s staircase and her first impulse be to run. 
wasn t you mr. heldar s model. say mr. beeton plant himself in front of her. you be. he s on the other side of the road and he d like to see you. 
why. say bessie faintly. she remember indeed have never for long forget an affair connect with a newly finish picture. 
because he ha ask me to do so and because he s most particular blind. 
drink. 
no. orspital blind. he can t see. that s him over there. 
dick be lean against the parapet of the bridge a mr. beeton point him out a stub beard bow creature wear a dirty magenta colour neckcloth outside an unbrushed coat. there be nothing to fear from such an one. even if he chase her bessie think he could not follow far. she cross over and dick s face light up. it be long since a woman of any kind have take the trouble to speak to him. 
i hope you re well mr. heldar. say bessie a little puzzle. mr. beeton stand by with the air of an ambassador and breathe responsibly. 
i m very well indeed and by jove. i m glad to see hear you i mean be. you never think it worth while to turn up and see u again after you get your money. i don t know why you should. be you go anywhere in particular just now. 
i be go for a walk say bessie. 
not the old business. dick speak under his breath. 
lor no. i pay my premium bessie be very proud of that word for a barmaid sleep in and i m at the bar now quite respectable. indeed i be. 
mr. beeton have no special reason to believe in the loftiness of human nature. therefore he dissolve himself like a mist and return to his gas plug without a word of apology. bessie watch the flight with a certain uneasiness. but so long a dick appear to be ignorant of the harm that have be do to him. 
it s hard work pull the beer handle she go on and they ve get one of them penny in the slot cash machine so if you get wrong by a penny at the end of the day but then i don t believe the machinery be right. do you. 
i ve only see it work. mr. beeton. 
he s go. 
i m afraid i must ask you to help me home then. i ll make it worth your while. you see. the sightless eye turn towards her and bessie saw. 
it isn t take you out of your way. he say hesitatingly. i can ask a policeman if it be. 
not at all. i come on at seven and i m off at four. that s easy hour. 
good god. but i m on all the time. i wish i have some work to do too. 
let s go home be. 
he turn and cannon into a man on the sidewalk recoil with an oath. bessie take his arm and say nothing a she have say nothing when he have order her to turn her face a little more to the light. they walk for some time in silence the girl steer him deftly through the crowd. 
and where s where s mr. torpenhow. she inquire at last. 
he ha go away to the desert. 
where s that. 
dick point to the right. east out of the mouth of the river say he. 
then west then south and then east again all along the under side of europe. then south again god know how far. the explanation do not enlighten bessie in the least but she hold her tongue and look to dick s patch till they come to the chamber. 
we ll have tea and muffin he say joyously. i can t tell you bessie how glad i be to find you again. what make you go away so suddenly. 
i didn t think you d want me any more she say embolden by his ignorance. 
i didn t a a matter of fact but afterwards at any rate i m glad you ve come. you know the stair. 
so bessie lead him home to his own place there be no one to hind and shut the door of the studio. 
what a mess. be her first word. all these thing haven t be look after for month and month. 
no only week be. you can t expect them to care. 
i don t know what you expect them to do. they ought to know what you ve pay them for. the dust s just awful. it s all over the easel. 
i don t use it much now. 
all over the picture and the floor and all over your coat. i d like to speak to them housemaid. 
ring for tea then. dick felt his way to the one chair he use by custom. 
bessie saw the action and a far a in her lay be touch. but there remain always a keen sense of new find superiority and it be in her voice when she speak. 
how long have you be like this. she say wrathfully a though the blindness be some fault of the housemaid. 
how. 
a you be. 
the day after you go away with the check almost a soon a my picture be finish. i hardly saw her alive. 
then they ve be cheat you ever since that s all. i know their nice little way. 
a woman may love one man and despise another but on general feminine principle she will do her best to save the man she despise from be defraud. her love one can look to himself but the other man be obviously an idiot need protection. 
i don t think mr. beeton cheat much say dick. bessie be flounce up and down the room and he be conscious of a keen sense of enjoyment a he hear the swish of her skirt and the light step between. 
tea and muffin she say shortly when the ring at the bell be answer. two teaspoonful and one over for the pot. i don t want the old teapot that be here when i use to come. it don t draw. get another. 
the housemaid go away scandalise and dick chuckle. then he begin to cough a bessie bang up and down the studio disturb the dust. 
what be you try to do. 
put thing straight. this be like unfurnished lodging. how could you let it go so. 
how could i help it. dust away. 
she dust furiously and in the midst of all the pother enter mr. 
beeton. her husband on his return have explain the situation wind up with the peculiarly felicitous proverb do unto others a you would be do by. she have descend to put into her place the person who demand muffin and an uncracked teapot a though she have a right to both. 
muffin ready yet. say be still dust. she be no long a drab of the street but a young lady who thank to dick s check have pay her premium and be entitle to pull beer handle with the best. be neatly dress in black she do not hesitate to face mr. beeton and there pass between the two woman certain regard that dick would have appreciate. the situation adjust itself by eye. bessie have win and mr. beeton return to cook muffin and make scathing remark about model hussy trollop and the like to her husband. 
there s nothing to be get of interfere with him liza he say. alf you go along into the street to play. when he isn t cross he s a kindly a kind but when he s cross he s the devil and all. we take too many little thing out of his room since he be blind to be that particular about what he doe. they ain t no object to a blind man of course but if it be to come into court we d get the sack. yes i do introduce him to that girl because i m a feelin man myself. 
much too feelin. mr. beeton slap the muffin into the dish and think of comely housemaid long since dismiss on suspicion. 
i ain t ashamed of it and it isn t for u to judge him hard so long a he pay quiet and regular a he do. i know how to manage young gentleman you know how to cook for them and what i say be let each stick to his own business and then there win t be any trouble. take them muffin down liza and be sure you have no word with that young woman. his lot be cruel hard and if he s cross he do swear bad than any one i ve ever serve. 
that s a little good say bessie sit down to the tea. you needn t wait thank you mr. beeton. 
i have no intention of do such i do assure you. 
bessie make no answer whatever. this she know be the way in which real lady rout their foe and when one be a barmaid at a first class public house one may become a real lady at ten minute notice. 
her eye fell on dick opposite her and she be both shock and displease. there be droppings of food all down the front of his coat. the mouth under the rag ill grow beard droop sullenly. the forehead be line and contract. and on the lean temple the hair be a dusty indeterminate colour that might or might not have be call gray. the utter misery and self abandonment of the man appeal to her and at the bottom of her heart lay the wicked feel that he be humble and bring low who have once humble her. 
oh. it be good to hear you move about say dick rub his hand. 
tell u all about your bar success bessie and the way you live now. 
never mind that. i m quite respectable a you d see by look at me. 
you don t seem to live too well. what make you go blind that sudden. why isn t there any one to look after you. 
dick be too thankful for the sound of her voice to resent the tone of it. 
i be cut across the head a long time ago and that ruin my eye. i don t suppose anybody think it worth while to look after me any more. 
why should they. and mr. beeton really doe everything i want. 
don t you know any gentleman and lady then while you be well. 
a few but i don t care to have them look at me. 
i suppose that s why you ve grow a beard. take it off it don t become you. 
good gracious child do you imagine that i think of what become of me these day. 
you ought. get that take off before i come here again. i suppose i can come can t i. 
i d be only too grateful if you do. i don t think i treat you very well in the old day. i use to make you angry. 
very angry you do. 
i m sorry for it then. come and see me when you can and a often a you can. god know there isn t a soul in the world to take that trouble except you and mr. beeton. 
a lot of trouble he s take and she too. this with a toss of the head. 
they ve let you do anyhow and they haven t do anything for you. i ve only to look and see that much. i ll come and i ll be glad to come but you must go and be shave and you must get some other clothe those one aren t fit to be see. 
i have heap somewhere he say helplessly. 
i know you have. tell mr. beeton to give you a new suit and i ll brush it and keep it clean. you may be a blind a a barn door mr. heldar but it doesn t excuse you look like a sweep. 
do i look like a sweep then. 
oh i m sorry for you. i m that sorry for you. she cry impulsively and take dick s hand. mechanically he lower his head a if to kiss she be the only woman who have take pity on him and he be not too proud for a little pity now. she stand up to go. 
nothing o that kind till you look more like a gentleman. it s quite easy when you get shave and some clothe. 
he could hear her draw on her glove and rise to say good bye. she pass behind him kiss him audaciously on the back of the neck and run away a swiftly a on the day when she have destroy the melancolia. 
to think of me kiss mr. heldar she say to herself after all he s do to me and all. well i m sorry for him and if he be shave he wouldn t be so bad to look at but. oh them beetons how shameful they ve treat him. i know beeton s wear his shirt on his back to day just a well a if i d air it. to morrow i ll see. i wonder if he ha much of his own. it might be worth more than the bar i wouldn t have to do any work and just a respectable a if no one know. 
dick be not grateful to bessie for her part gift. he be acutely conscious of it in the nape of his neck throughout the night but it seem among very many other thing to enforce the wisdom of get shave. 
he be shave accordingly in the morning and felt the good for it. a fresh suit of clothe white linen and the knowledge that some one in the world say that she take an interest in his personal appearance make him carry himself almost upright. for the brain be relieve for a while from think of maisie who under other circumstance might have give that kiss and a million others. 
let u consider say he after lunch. the girl can t care and it s a toss up whether she come again or not but if money can buy her to look after me she shall be buy. nobody else in the world would take the trouble and i can make it worth her while. she s a child of the gutter hold brevet rank a a barmaid. so she shall have everything she want if she ll only come and talk and look after me. he rub his newly shorn chin and begin to perplex himself with the think of her not come. i suppose i do look rather a sweep he go on. i have no reason to look otherwise. i know thing drop on my clothe but it didn t matter. it would be cruel if she didn t come. she must. maisie come once and that be enough for her. she be quite right. she have something to work for. this creature ha only beer handle to pull unless she ha delude some young man into keep company with her. 
fancy be cheat for the sake of a counter jumper. we re fall pretty low. 
something cry aloud within him. this will hurt more than anything that ha go before. it will recall and remind and suggest and tantalise and in the end drive you mad. 
i know it i know it. dick cry clench his hand despairingly. but good heaven. be a poor blind beggar never to get anything out of his life except three meal a day and a greasy waistcoat. i wish she d come. 
early in the afternoon time she come because there be no young man in her life just then and she think of material advantage which would allow her to be idle for the rest of her day. 
i shouldn t have know you she say approvingly. you look a you use to look a gentleman that be proud of himself. 
don t you think i deserve another kiss then. say dick flush a little. 
maybe but you win t get it yet. sit down and let s see what i can do for you. i m certain sure mr. beeton cheat you now that you can t go through the housekeep book every month. isn t that true. 
you d good come and housekeep for me then bessie. 
couldn t do it in these chamber you know that a well a i do. 
i know but we might go somewhere else if you think it worth your while. 
i d try to look after you anyhow. but i shouldn t care to have to work for both of u. this be tentative. 
dick laugh. 
do you remember where i use to keep my bank book. say he. torp take it to be balance just before he go away. look and see. 
it be generally under the tobacco jar. ah. 
well. 
oh. four thousand two hundred and ten pound nine shilling and a penny. oh my. 
you can have the penny. that s not bad for one year s work. be that and a hundred and twenty pound a year good enough. 
the idleness and the pretty clothe be almost within her reach now but she must by be housewifely show that she deserve them. 
yes. but you d have to move and if we take an inventory i think we d find that mr. beeton ha be prigging little thing out of the room here and there. they don t look a full a they use. 
never mind we ll let him have them. the only thing i m particularly anxious to take away be that picture i use you for when you use to swear at me. we ll pull out of this place be and get away a far a ever we can. 
oh yes she say uneasily. 
i don t know where i can go to get away from myself but i ll try and you shall have all the pretty frock that you care for. you ll like that. 
give me that kiss now be. ye god. it s good to put one s arm round a woman s waist again. 
then come the fulfilment of the prophecy within the brain. if his arm be thus round maisie s waist and a kiss have just be give and take between them why then. he press the girl more closely to himself because the pain whip him. she be wonder how to explain a little accident to the melancolia. at any rate if this man really desire the solace of her company and certainly he would relapse into his original slough if she withdraw it he would not be more than just a little vex. 
it would be delightful at least to see what would happen and by her teaching it be good for a man to stand in certain awe of his companion. 
she laugh nervously and slip out of his reach. 
i shouldn t worrit about that picture if i be you she begin in the hope of turn his attention. 
it s at the back of all my canvas somewhere. find it be. you know it a well a i do. 
i know but. 
but what. you ve wit enough to manage the sale of it to a dealer. 
woman haggle much good than men. it might be a matter of eight or nine hundred pound to to u. i simply didn t like to think about it for a long time. it be mix up with my life so. but we ll cover up our track and get rid of everything eh. make a fresh start from the begin be. 
then she begin to repent very much indeed because she know the value of money. still it be probable that the blind man be overestimate the value of his work. gentleman she know be absurdly particular about their thing. she giggle a a nervous housemaid giggle when she try to explain the breakage of a pipe. 
i m very sorry but you remember i be i be angry with you before mr. torpenhow go away. 
you be very angry child. and on my word i think you have some right to be. 
then i but aren t you sure mr. torpenhow didn t tell you. 
tell me what. good gracious what be you make such a fuss about when you might just a well be give me another kiss. 
he be begin to learn not for the first time in his experience that kiss be a cumulative poison. the more you get of it the more you want. 
bessie give the kiss promptly whisper a she do so i be so angry i rub out that picture with the turpentine. you aren t angry be you. 
what. say that again. the man s hand have close on her wrist. 
i rub it out with turp and the knife falter bessie. i think you d only have to do it over again. you do do it over again didn t you. oh let go of my wrist. you re hurt me. 
isn t there anything leave of the thing. 
n nothing that look like anything. i m sorry i didn t know you d take on about it. i only mean to do it in fun. you aren t go to hit me. 
hit you. no. let s think. 
he do not relax his hold upon her wrist but stand star at the carpet. 
then he shake his head a a young steer shake it when the lash of the stock whip cross his nose warn him back to the path on to the shamble that he would escape. for week he have force himself not to think of the melancolia because she be a part of his dead life. with bessie s return and certain new prospect that have develop themselves the melancolia lovely in his imagination than she have ever be on canvas reappear. by her aid he might have procure mor money wherewith to amuse be and to forget maisie a well a another taste of an almost forget success. now thank to a vicious little housemaid s folly there be nothing to look for not even the hope that he might some day take an abide interest in the housemaid. bad of all he have be make to appear ridiculous in maisie s eye. a woman will forgive the man who ha ruin her life s work so long a he give her love. a man may forgive those who ruin the love of his life but he will never forgive the destruction of his work. 
tck tck tck say dick between his teeth and then laugh softly. it s an omen bessie and a good many thing consider it serf me right for do what i have do. by jove. that account for maisie s run away. she must have think me perfectly mad small blame to her. the whole picture ruin isn t it so. what make you do it. 
because i be that angry. i m not angry now i m awful sorry. 
i wonder. it doesn t matter anyhow. i m to blame for make the mistake. 
what mistake. 
something you wouldn t understand dear. great heaven. to think that a little piece of dirt like you could throw me out of stride. dick be talk to himself a bessie try to shake off his grip on her wrist. 
i ain t a piece of dirt and you shouldn t call me so. i do it cause i hat you and i m only sorry now cause you re cause you re. 
exactly because i m blind. there s note like tact in little thing. 
bessie begin to sob. she do not like be shackle against her will. she be afraid of the blind face and the look upon it and be sorry too that her great revenge have only make dick laugh. 
don t cry he say and take her into his arm. you only do what you think right. 
i i ain t a little piece of dirt and if you say that i ll never come to you again. 
you don t know what you ve do to me. i m not angry indeed i m not. 
be quiet for a minute. 
bessie remain in his arm shrink. dick s first think be connect with maisie and it hurt him a white hot iron hurt an open sore. 
not for nothing be a man permit to ally himself to the wrong woman. 
the first pang the first sense of thing lose be but the prelude to the play for the very just providence who delight in cause pain ha decree that the agony shall return and that in the midst of keen pleasure. 
they know this pain equally who have forsake or be forsake by the love of their life and in their new wife arm be compel to realise it. 
it be good to remain alone and suffer only the misery of be alone so long a it be possible to find distraction in daily work. when that resource go the man be to be pity and leave alone. 
these thing and some others dick consider while he be hold bessie to his heart. 
though you mayn t know it he say raise his head the lord be a just and a terrible god be. with a very strong sense of humour. it serf me right how it serf me right. torp could understand it if he be here. he must have suffer something at your hand child but only for a minute or so. i save him. set that to my credit some one. 
let me go say be her face darken. let me go. 
all in good time. do you ever attend sunday school. 
never. let me go i tell you. you re make fun of me. 
indeed i m not. i m make fun of myself. thus. he save others himself he cannot save. it isn t exactly a school board text. he release her wrist but since he be between her and the door she could not escape. what an enormous amount of mischief one little woman can do. 
i m sorry. i m awful sorry about the picture. 
i m not. i m grateful to you for spoil it. what be we talk about before you mention the thing. 
about get away and money. me and you go away. 
of course. we will get away that be to say i will. 
and me. 
you shall have fifty whole pound for spoil a picture. 
then you win t. 
i m afraid not dear. think of fifty pound for pretty thing all to yourself. 
you say you couldn t do anything without me. 
that be true a little while ago. i m good now thank you. get me my hat. 
s pose i don t. 
beeton will and you ll lose fifty pound. that s all. get it. 
bessie curse under her breath. she have pity the man sincerely have kiss him with almost equal sincerity for he be not unhandsome. it please her to be in a way and for a time his protector and above all there be four thousand pound to be handle by some one. now through a slip of the tongue and a little feminine desire to give a little not too much pain she have lose the money the bless idleness and the pretty thing the companionship and the chance of look outwardly a respectable a a real lady. 
now fill me a pipe. tobacco doesn t taste but it doesn t matter and i ll think thing out. what s the day of the week be. 
tuesday. 
then thursday s mail day. what a fool what a blind fool i have be. 
twenty two pound cover my passage home again. allow ten for additional expense. we must put up at madam binat s for old time s sake. thirty two pound altogether. add a hundred for the cost of the last trip gad win t torp stare to see me. a hundred and thirty two leaf seventy eight for baksheesh i shall need it and to play with. 
what be you cry for be. it wasn t your fault child. it be mine altogether. oh you funny little opossum mop your eye and take me out. 
i want the pas book and the check book. stop a minute. four thousand pound at four per cent that s safe interest mean a hundred and sixty pound a year. one hundred and twenty pound a hear also safe be two eighty and two hundred and eighty pound add to three hundred a year mean gild luxury for a single woman. be we ll go to the bank. 
rich by two hundred and ten pound store in his money belt dick cause bessie now thoroughly bewilder to hurry from the bank to the p. and o. office where he explain thing tersely. 
port say single first. cabin a close to the baggage hatch a possible. 
what ship s go. 
the colgong say the clerk. 
she s a wet little hooker. be it tilbury and a tender or galleon and the dock. 
galleon. twelve forty thursday. 
thank. change please. i can t see very well will you count it into my hand. 
if they all take their passage like that instead of talk about their trunk life would be worth something say the clerk to his neighbour who be try to explain to a harass mother of many that condense milk be just a good for babe at sea a daily dairy. be nineteen and unmarried he speak with conviction. 
we be now quoth dick a they return to the studio pat the place where his money belt cover ticket and money beyond the reach of man or devil or woman which be much more important. i ve have three little affair to carry through before thursday but i needn t ask you to help be. come here on thursday morning at nine. we ll breakfast and you shall take me down to galleon station. 
what be you go to do. 
go away of course. what should i stay for. 
but you can t look after yourself. 
i can do anything. i didn t realise it before but i can. i ve do a great deal already. resolution shall be treat to one kiss if bessie doesn t object. strangely enough bessie object and dick laugh. i suppose you re right. well come at nine the day after to morrow and you ll get your money. 
shall i sure. 
i don t bilk and you win t know whether i do or not unless you come. 
oh but it s long and long to wait. good bye bessie send beeton here a you go out. 
the housekeeper come. 
what be all the fitting of my room worth. say dick imperiously. 
tisn t for me to say sir. some thing be very pretty and some be wear out dreadful. 
i m insure for two hundred and seventy. 
insurance policy be no criterion though i don t say. 
oh damn your longwindedness. you ve make your picking out of me and the other tenant. why you talk of retire and buy a public house the other day. give a straight answer to a straight question. 
fifty say mr. beeton without a moment s hesitation. 
double it. or i ll break up half my stick and burn the rest. 
he felt his way to a bookstand that support a pile of sketch book and wrench out one of the mahogany pillar. 
that s sinful sir say the housekeeper alarm. 
it s my own. one hundred or. 
one hundred it be. it ll cost me three and six to get that there pilaster mend. 
i think so. what an out and out swindler you must have be to spring that price at once. 
i hope i ve do nothing to dissatisfy any of the tenant least of all you sir. 
never mind that. get me the money to morrow and see that all my clothe be pack in the little brown bullock trunk. i m go. 
but the quarter s notice. 
i ll pay forfeit. look after the pack and leave me alone. 
mr. beeton discuss this new departure with his wife who decide that bessie be at the bottom of it all. her husband take a more charitable view. 
it s very sudden but then he be always sudden in his way. listen to him now. 
there be a sound of chant from dick s room. 
we ll never come back any more boy we ll never come back no more. we ll go to the deuce on any excuse and never come back no more. 
oh say we re afloat or ashore boy oh say we re afloat or ashore. but we ll never come back any more boy we ll never come back no more. 
mr. beeton. mr. beeton. where the deuce be my pistol. 
quick he s go to shoot himself avin go mad. say mr. beeton. 
mr. beeton address dick soothingly but it be some time before the latter thresh up and down his bedroom could realise the intention of the promise to find everything to morrow sir. 
oh you copper nose old fool you impotent academician. he shout at last. do you suppose i want to shoot myself. take the pistol in your silly shake hand then. if you touch it it will go off because it s load. 
it s among my campaign kit somewhere in the parcel at the bottom of the trunk. 
long ago dick have carefully possess himself of a forty pound weight field equipment construct by the knowledge of his own experience. it be this put away treasure that he be try to find and rehandle. mr. 
beeton whip the revolver out of it place on the top of the package and dick drive his hand among the khaki coat and breech the blue cloth leg band and the heavy flannel shirt double over a pair of swan neck spur. under these and the water bottle lay a sketch book and a pigskin case of stationery. 
these we don t want. you can have them mr. beeton. everything else i ll keep. pack em on the top right hand side of my trunk. when you ve do that come into the studio with your wife. i want you both. wait a minute. get me a pen and a sheet of notepaper. 
it be not an easy thing to write when you cannot see and dick have particular reason for wish that his work should be clear. so he begin follow his right hand with his leave. the badness of this write be because i be blind and cannot see my pen. h mph. even a lawyer can t mistake that. it must be sign i suppose but it needn t be witness. now an inch low why do i never learn to use a type writer. this be the last will and testament of me richard heldar. i be in sound bodily and mental health and there be no previous will to revoke. that s all right. damn the pen. whereabouts on the paper be i. i leave everything that i posse in the world include four thousand pound and two thousand seven hundred and twenty eight pound hold for me oh i can t get this straight. he tear off half the sheet and begin again with the caution about the handwrite. then. i leave all the money i posse in the world to here follow maisie s name and the name of the two bank that hold the money. 
it mayn t be quite regular but no one ha a shadow of a right to dispute it and i ve give maisie s address. come in mr. beeton. this be my signature. i want you and your wife to witness it. thank. to morrow you must take me to the landlord and i ll pay forfeit for leave without notice and i ll lodge this paper with him in case anything happen while i m away. now we re go to light up the studio stave. stay with me and give me my paper a i want em. 
no one know until he ha try how fine a blaze a year s accumulation of bill letter and docket can make. dick stuff into the stave every document in the studio save only three unopened letter. destroy sketch book rough note book new and half finish canvas alike. 
what a lot of rubbish a tenant get about him if he stay long enough in one place to be sure say mr. beeton at last. 
he doe. be there anything more leave. dick felt round the wall. 
not a thing and the stave s nigh red hot. 
excellent and you ve lose about a thousand pound worth of sketch. 
ho. ho. quite a thousand pound worth if i can remember what i use to be. 
yes sir politely. mr. beeton be quite sure that dick have go mad otherwise he would have never part with his excellent furniture for a song. the canvas thing take up storage room and be much good out of the way. 
there remain only to leave the little will in safe hand. that could not be accomplish to to morrow. dick grope about the floor pick up the last piece of paper assure himself again and again that there remain no write word or sign of his past life in drawer or desk and sit down before the stave till the fire die out and the contract iron crack in the silence of the night. 
chapter xv. 
with a heart of furious fancy whereof i be commander. with a burn spear and a horse of air to the wilderness i wander. 
with a knight of ghost and shadow i summon be to tourney ten league beyond the wide world s end methinks it be no journey. 
tom a bedlam s song. 
good bye be. i promise you fifty. here s a hundred all that i get for my furniture from beeton. that will keep you in pretty frock for some time. you ve be a good little girl all thing consider but you ve give me and torpenhow a fair amount of trouble. 
give mr. torpenhow my love if you see him win t you. 
of course i will dear. now take me up the gang plank and into the cabin. once aboard the lugger and the maid be and i be free i mean. 
who ll look after you on this ship. 
the head steward if there s any use in money. the doctor when we come to port say if i know anything of p. and o. doctor. after that the lord will provide a he use to do. 
be find dick his cabin in the wild turmoil of a ship full of leavetakers and weep relative. then he kiss her and lay himself down in his bunk until the deck should be clear. he who have take so long to move about his own darken room well understand the geography of a ship and the necessity of see to his own comfort be a wine to him. 
before the screw begin to thrash the ship along the dock he have be introduce to the head steward have royally tip him secure a good place at table open out his baggage and settle himself down with joy in the cabin. it be scarcely necessary to feel his way a he move about for he know everything so well. then god be very kind. a deep sleep of weariness come upon him just a he would have think of maisie and he sleep till the steamer have clear the mouth of the thames and be lift to the pulse of the channel. 
the rattle of the engine the reek of oil and paint and a very familiar sound in the next cabin rouse him to his new inheritance. 
oh it s good to be alive again. he yawn stretch himself vigorously and go on deck to be tell that they be almost abreast of the light of brighton. this be no more open water than trafalgal square be a common. the free level begin at ushant. but none the le dick could feel the heal of the sea at work upon him already. a boisterous little cross swell swing the steamer disrespectfully by the nose. and one wave break far aft spatter the quarterdeck and the pile of new deck chair. he hear the foam fall with the clash of break glass be sting in the face by a cupful and sniff luxuriously felt his way to the smoke room by the wheel. there a strong b reeze find him blow his cap off and leave him bareheaded in the doorway and the smoke room steward understand that he be a voyager of experience say that the weather would be stiff in the chop off the channel and more than half a gale in the bay. these thing fell a they be foretell and dick enjoy himself to the utmost. it be allowable and even necessary at sea to lay firm hold upon table stanchion and rope in move from place to place. on land the man who feel with his hand be patently blind. at sea even a blind man who be not sea sick can jest with the doctor over the weakness of his fellow. dick tell the doctor many tale and these be coin of more value than silver if properly handle smoke with him till unholy hour of the night and so win his short live regard that he promise dick a few hour of his time when they come to port say. 
and the sea roar or be still a the wind blow and the engine sing their song day and night and the sun grow strong day by day and tom the lascar barber shave dick of a morning under the open hatch grate where the cool wind blow and the awning be spread and the passenger make merry and at last they come to port say. 
take me say dick to the doctor to madame binat s if you know where that be. 
whew. say the doctor i do. there s not much to choose between em. but i suppose you re aware that that s one of the bad house in the place. they ll rob you to begin with and knife you late. 
not they. take me there and i can look after myself. 
so he be bring to madame binat s and fill his nostril with the well remember smell of the east that run without a change from the canal head to hong kong and his mouth with the villainous lingua franca of the levant. the heat smite him between the shoulder blade with the buffet of an old friend his foot slip on the sand and his coat sleeve be warm a new bake bread when he lift it to his nose. 
madame binat smile with the smile that know no astonishment when dick enter the drink shop which be one source of her gain. but for a little accident of complete darkness he could hardly realise that he have ever quit the old life that hum in his ear. somebody open a bottle of peculiarly strong schiedam. the smell remind dick of monsieur binat who by the way have speak of art and degradation. 
binat be dead. madame say a much when the doctor depart scandalise so far a a ship s doctor can be at the warmth of dick s reception. dick be delight at it. they remember me here after a year. they have forget me across the water by this time. madame i want a long talk with you when you re at liberty. it be good to be back again. 
in the even she set an iron top cafe table out on the sand and dick and she sit by it while the house behind them fill with riot merriment oath and threat. the star come out and the light of the ship in the harbour twinkle by the head of the canal. 
yes. the war be good for trade my friend. but what dost thou do here. we have not forget thee. 
i be over there in england and i go blind. 
but there be the glory first. we hear of it here even here i and binat. and thou hast use the head of yellow tina she be still alive so often and so well that tina laugh when the paper arrive by the mail boat. it be always something that we here could recognise in the painting. and then there be always the glory and the money for thee. 
i be not poor i shall pay you well. 
not to me. thou hast pay for everything. under her breath mon dieu to be blind and so young. what horror. 
dick could not see her face with the pity on it or his own with the discolour hair at the temple. he do not feel the need of pity. he be too anxious to get to the front once more and explain his desire. 
and where. the canal be full of the english ship. sometimes they fire a they use to do when the war be here ten year ago. beyond cairo there be fight but how canst thou go there without a correspondent s passport. and in the desert there be always fight but that be impossible also say she. 
i must go to suakin. he know thank to alf s reading that torpenhow be at work with the column that be protect the construction of the suakin berber line. p. and o. steamer do not touch at that port and besides madame binat know everybody whose help or advice be worth anything. they be not respectable folk but they could cause thing to be accomplish which be much more important when there be work toward. 
but at suakin they be always fight. that desert breed men always and always more men. and they be so bold. why to suakin. 
my friend be there. 
thy friend. chtt. thy friend be death then. 
madame binat drop a fat arm on the table top fill dick s glass anew and look at him closely under the star. there be no need that he should bow his head in assent and say no. he be a man but if it should arrive. blame thou. 
i blame. she laugh shrilly. who be i that i should blame any one except those who try to cheat me over their consommations. but it be very terrible. 
i must go to suakin. think for me. a great deal ha change within the year and the men i know be not here. the egyptian lighthouse steamer go down the canal to suakin and the post boat but even then. 
do not think any long. i know and it be for me to think. thou shalt go thou shalt go and see thy friend. be wise. sit here until the house be a little quiet i must attend to my guest and afterwards go to bed. thou shalt go in truth thou shalt go. 
to morrow. 
a soon a may be. she be talk a though he be a child. 
he sit at the table listen to the voice in the harbour and the street and wonder how soon the end would come till madame binat carry him off to bed and order him to sleep. the house shout and sing and dance and revel madame binat move through it with one eye on the liquor payment and the girl and the other on dick s interest. to this latter end she smile upon scowl and furtive turkish officer of fellah regiment and more than kind to camel agent of no nationality whatever. 
in the early morning be then appropriately dress in a flame red silk ball dress with a front of tarnish gold embroidery and a necklace of plate glass diamond she make chocolate and carry it in to dick. 
it be only i and i be of discreet age eh. drink and eat the roll too. thus in france mother bring their son when those behave wisely the morning chocolate. she sit down on the side of the bed whisper. it be all arrange. thou wilt go by the lighthouse boat. that be a bribe of ten pound english. the captain be never pay by the government. the boat come to suakin in four day. there will go with thee george a greek muleteer. another bribe of ten pound. i will pay. they must not know of thy money. george will go with thee a far a he go with his mule. then he come back to me for his well beloved be here and if i do not receive a telegram from suakin say that thou art well the girl answer for george. 
thank you. he reach out sleepily for the cup. you be much too kind madame. 
if there be anything that i might do i would say stay here and be wise. but i do not think that would be best for thee. she look at her liquor stain dress with a sad smile. nay thou shalt go in truth thou shalt go. it be best so. my boy it be best so. 
she stoop and kiss dick between the eye. that be for good morning she say go away. when thou art dress we will speak to george and make everything ready. but first we must open the little trunk. give me the key. 
the amount of kiss lately ha be simply scandalous. i shall expect torp to kiss me next. he be more likely to swear at me for get in his way though. well it win t last long. ohe madame help me to my toilette of the guillotine. there will be no chance of dress properly out yonder. 
he be rummage among his new campaign kit and rowelling his hand with the spur. there be two say of wear well oil ankle jack spotless blue band khaki coat and breech and a perfectly pipeclayed helmet. the right way be the way of the untired man master of himself set out upon an expedition well please. 
everything must be very correct dick explain. it will become dirty afterwards but now it be good to feel well dress. be everything a it should be. 
he pat the revolver neatly hide under the fulness of the blouse on the right hip and finger his collar. 
i can do no more madame say between laugh and cry. look at thyself but i forget. 
i be very content. he stroke the creaseless spiral of his legging. 
now let u go and see the captain and george and the lighthouse boat. 
be quick madame. 
but thou canst not be see by the harbour walk with me in the daylight. figure to yourself if some english lady. 
there be no english lady. and if there be i have forget them. 
take me there. 
in spite of this burn impatience it be nearly even ere the lighthouse boat begin to move. madame have say a great deal both to george and the captain touch the arrangement that be to be make for dick s benefit. very few men who have the honour of her acquaintance care to disregard madame s advice. that sort of contempt might end in be knife by a strange in a gamble hell upon surprisingly short provocation. 
for six day two of them be waste in the crowd canal the little steamer work her way to suakin where she be to pick up the superintendent of the lighthouse. and dick make it his business to propitiate george who be distract with fear for the safety of his light of love and half incline to make dick responsible for his own discomfort. when they arrive george take him under his wing and together they enter the red hot seaport encumber with the material and wastage of the suakin berger line from locomotive in disconsolate fragment to mound of chair and pot sleeper. 
if you keep with me say george nobody will ask for passport or what you do. they be all very busy. 
yes. but i should like to hear some of the englishman talk. they might remember me. i be know here a long time ago when i be some one indeed. 
a long time ago be a very long time ago here. the graveyard be full. 
now listen. this new railway run out so far a tanai el hassan that be seven mile. then there be a camp. they say that beyond tanai el hassan the english troop go forward and everything that they require will be bring to them by this line. 
ah. base camp. i see. that s a good business than fight fuzzies in the open. 
for this reason even the mule to up in the iron train. 
iron what. 
it be all cover with iron because it be still be shoot at. 
an armour train. good and good. go on faithful george. 
and i go up with my mule to night. only those who particularly require to go to the camp go out with the train. they begin to shoot not far from the city. 
the dear they always use to. dick snuff the smell of parch dust heat iron and flake paint with delight. certainly the old life be welcome him back most generously. 
when i have get my mule together i go up to night but you must first send a telegram of port say declare that i have do you no harm. 
madame ha you well in hand. would you stick a knife into me if you have the chance. 
i have no chance say the greek. she be there with that woman. 
i see. it s a bad thing to be divide between love of woman and the chance of loot. i sympathise with you george. 
they go to the telegraph office unquestioned for all the world be desperately busy and have scarcely time to turn it head and suakin be the last place under sky that would be choose for holiday grind. on their return the voice of an english subaltern ask dick what he be do. the blue goggle be over his eye and he walk with his hand on george s elbow a he reply egyptian government mule. my order be to give them over to the a. 
c. g. at tanai el hassan. any occasion to show my paper. 
oh certainly not. i beg your pardon. i d no right to ask but not see your face before i. 
i go out in the train to night i suppose say dick boldly. there will be no difficulty in load up the mule will there. 
you can see the horse platform from here. you must have them load up early. the young man go away wonder what sort of break down waif this might be who talk like a gentleman and consort with greek muleteer. dick felt unhappy. to outface an english officer be no small thing but the bluff lose relish when one play it from the utter dark and stumble up and down rough way think and eternally think of what might have be if thing have fall out otherwise and all have be a it be not. 
george share his meal with dick and go off to the mule line. his charge sit alone in a shed with his face in his hand. before his tight shut eye dance the face of maisie laugh with part lip. there be a great bustle and clamour about him. he grow afraid and almost call for george. 
i say have you get your mule ready. it be the voice of the subaltern over his shoulder. 
my man s look after them. the the fact be i ve a touch of ophthalmia and can t see very well. 
by jove. that s bad. you ought to lie up in hospital for a while. i ve have a turn of it myself. it s a bad a be blind. 
so i find it. when doe this armour train go. 
at six o clock. it take an hour to cover the seven mile. 
be the fuzzies on the rampage eh. 
about three night a week. fact be i m in act command of the night train. it generally run back empty to tanai for the night. 
big camp at tanai i suppose. 
pretty big. it ha to fee our desert column somehow. 
be that far off. 
between thirty and forty mile in an infernal thirsty country. 
be the country quiet between tanai and our men. 
more or le. i shouldn t care to cross it alone or with a subaltern s command for the matter of that but the scout get through it in some extraordinary fashion. 
they always do. 
have you be here before then. 
i be through most of the trouble when it first break out. 
in the service and cashier be the subaltern s first think so he refrain from put any question. 
there s you man come up with the mule. it seem rather queer. 
that i should be mule lead. say dick. 
i didn t mean to say so but it be. forgive me it s beastly impertinence i know but you speak like a man who ha be at a public school. there s no mistake the tone. 
i be a public school man. 
i think so. i say i don t want to hurt your feeling but you re a little down on your luck aren t you. i saw you sit with your head in your hand and that s why i speak. 
thank. i be about a thoroughly and completely break a a man need be. 
suppose i mean i m a public school man myself. couldn t i perhaps take it a a loan y know and. 
you re much too good but on my honour i ve a much money a i want. 
i tell you what you could do for me though and put me under an everlasting obligation. let me come into the bogie truck of the train. 
there be a fore truck isn t there. 
yes. how d you know. 
i ve be in an armour train before. only let me see hear some of the fun i mean and i ll be grateful. i go at my own risk a a non combatant. 
the young man think for a minute. all right he say. we re suppose to be an empty train and there s no one to blow me up at the other end. 
george and a horde of yell amateur assistant have load up the mule and the narrow gauge armour train plat with three eighth inch boiler plate till it look like one long coffin stand ready to start. 
two bogie truck run before the locomotive be completely cover in with plat except that the lead one be pierce in front for the muzzle of a machine gun and the second at either side for lateral fire. 
the truck together make one long iron vault chamber in which a score of artilleryman be riot. 
whitechapel last train. ah i see yer kissin in the first class there. somebody shout just a dick be clamour into the forward truck. 
lordy. ere s a real live passenger for the kew tanai acton and ealin train. echo sir. speshul edition. star sir. shall i get you a foot warm. say another. 
thank. i ll pay my foot say dick and relation of the most amiable be establish ere silence come with the arrival of the subaltern and the train jolt out over the rough track. 
this be an immense improvement on shoot the unimpressionable fuzzy in the open say dick from his place in the corner. 
oh but he s still unimpressed. there he go. say the subaltern a a bullet strike the outside of the truck. we always have at least one demonstration against the night train. generally they attack the rear truck where my junior command. he get all the fun of the fair. 
not to night though. listen. say dick. a flight of heavy hand bullet be succeed by yell and shout. the child of the desert value their nightly amusement and the train be an excellent mark. 
be it worth give them half a hopper full. the subaltern ask of the engine which be drive by a lieutenant of sapper. 
i should think so. this be my section of the line. they ll be play old harry with my permanent way if we don t stop em. 
right o. 
hrrmph. say the machine gun through all it five nose a the subaltern draw the lever home. the empty cartridge clash on the floor and the smoke blow back through the truck. there be indiscriminate fire at the rear of the train and return fire from the darkness without and unlimited howl. dick stretch himself on the floor wild with delight at the sound and the smell. 
god be very good i never think i d hear this again. give em hell men. oh give em hell. he cry. 
the train stop for some obstruction on the line ahead and a party go out to reconnoitre but come back curse for spade. the child of the desert have pile sand and gravel on the rail and twenty minute be lose in clear it away. then the slow progress recommence to be vary with more shot more shouting the steady clack and kick of the machine gun and a final difficulty with a half lift rail ere the train come under the protection of the roar camp at tanai el hassan. 
now you see why it take an hour and a half to fetch her through say the subaltern unshipping the cartridge hopper above his pet gun. 
it be a lark though. i only wish it have last twice a long. how superb it must have look from outside. say dick sigh regretfully. 
it pall after the first few night. by the way when you ve settle about your mule come and see what we can find to eat in my tent. i m bennil of the gunner in the artillery line and mind you don t fall over my tent rope in the dark. 
but it be all dark to dick. he could only smell the camel the hay bale the cook the smoky fire and the tan canvas of the tent a he stand where he have drop from the train shout for george. there be a sound of light hearted kick on the iron skin of the rear truck with squeal and grunt. george be unload the mule. 
the engine be blow off steam nearly in dick s ear. a cold wind of the desert dance between his leg. he be hungry and felt tire and dirty so dirty that he try to brush his coat with his hand. that be a hopeless job. he thrust his hand into his pocket and begin to count over the many time that he have wait in strange or remote place for train or camel mule or horse to carry him to his business. in those day he could see few men more clearly and the spectacle of an arm camp at dinner under the stare be an ever fresh pleasure to the eye. there be colour light and motion without which no man ha much pleasure in live. this night there remain for him only one more journey through the darkness that never lift to tell a man how far he ha travel. then he would grip torpenhow s hand again torpenhow who be alive and strong and live in the midst of the action that have once make the reputation of a man call dick heldar. not in the least to be confuse with the blind bewilder vagabond who seem to answer to the same name. yes he would find torpenhow and come a near to the old life a might be. afterwards he would forget everything. bessie who have wreck the melancolia and so nearly wreck his life. beeton who live in a strange unreal city full of tin tack and gas plug and matter that no men need. that irrational be who have offer him love and loyalty for nothing but have not sign her name. and most of all maisie who from her own point of view be undeniably right in all she do but oh at this distance so tantalisingly fair. 
george s hand on his arm pull him back to the situation. 
and what now. say george. 
oh yes of course. what now. take me to the camel men. take me to where the scout sit when they come in from the desert. they sit by their camel and the camel eat grain out of a black blanket hold up at the corner and the men eat by their side just like camel. take me there. 
the camp be rough and rutty and dick stumble many time over the stump of scrub. the scout be sit by their beast a dick know they would. the light of the dung fire flicker on their beard face and the camel bubble and mumble beside them at rest. it be no part of dick s policy to go into the desert with a convoy of supply. that would lead to impertinent question and since a blind non combatant be not need at the front he would probably be force to return to suakin. 
he must go up alone and go immediately. 
now for one last bluff the big of all he say. peace be with you brother. the watchful george steer him to the circle of the near fire. the head of the camel sheik bow gravely and the camel scent a european look sideways curiously like brood hen half ready to get to their foot. 
a beast and a driver to go to the fight line to night say dick. 
a mulaid. say a voice scornfully name the best baggage breed that he know. 
a bisharin return dick with perfect gravity. a bisharin without saddle gall. therefore no charge of thine shock head. 
two or three minute pass. then we be knee halter for the night. there be no go out from the camp. 
not for money. 
h m. ah. english money. 
another depress interval of silence. 
how much. 
twenty five pound english pay into the hand of the driver at my journey s end and a much more into the hand of the camel sheik here to be pay when the driver return. 
this be royal payment and the sheik who know that he would get his commission on this deposit stir in dick s behalf. 
for scarcely one night s journey fifty pound. land and well and good tree and wife to make a man content for the rest of his day. who speak. say dick. 
i say a voice. i will go but there be no go from the camp. 
fool. i know that a camel can break his knee halter and the sentry do not fire if one go in chase. twenty five pound and another twenty five pound. but the beast must be a good bisharin. i will take no baggage camel. 
then the bargain begin and at the end of half an hour the first deposit be pay over to the sheik who talk in low tone to the driver. 
dick hear the latter say. a little way out only. any baggage beast will serve. be i a fool to waste my cattle for a blind man. 
and though i cannot see dick lift his voice a little yet i carry that which ha six eye and the driver will sit before me. if we do not reach the english troop in the dawn he will be dead. 
but where in god s name be the troop. 
unless thou knowest let another man ride. dost thou know. remember it will be life or death to thee. 
i know say the driver sullenly. stand back from my beast. i be go to slip him. 
not so swiftly. george hold the camel s head a moment. i want to feel his cheek. the hand wander over the hide till they find the brand half circle that be the mark of the biharin the light build rid camel. 
that be well. cut this one loose. remember no bless of god come on those who try to cheat the blind. 
the men chuckle by the fire at the camel driver s discomfiture. he have intend to substitute a slow saddle gall baggage colt. 
stand back. one shout lash the biharin under the belly with a quirt. dick obey a soon a he felt the nose string tighten in his hand and a cry go up illaha. aho. he be loose. 
with a roar and a grunt the biharin rise to his foot and plunge forward toward the desert his driver follow with shout and lamentation. 
george catch dick s arm and hurry him stumble and trip past a disgust sentry who be use to stampede camel. 
what s the row now. he cry. 
every stitch of my kit on that blast dromedary dick answer after the manner of a common soldier. 
go on and take care your throat s not cut out side you and your dromedary s. 
the outcry cease when the camel have disappear behind a hillock and his driver have call him back and make him kneel down. 
mount first say dick. then climb into the second seat and gently screw the pistol muzzle into the small of his companion s back go on in god s name and swiftly. good bye george. remember me to madame and have a good time with your girl. get forward child of the pit. 
a few minute late he be shut up in a great silence hardly break by the creak of the saddle and the soft pad of the tireless foot. dick adjust himself comfortably to the rock and pitch of the pace girth his belt tight and felt the darkness slide past. for an hour he be conscious only of the sense of rapid progress. 
a good camel he say at last. 
he be never underfed. he be my own and clean breed the driver reply. 
go on. 
his head drop on his chest and he try to think but the tenor of his thought be break because he be very sleepy. in the half doze in seem that he be learn a punishment hymn at mr. jennett s. he have commit some crime a bad a sabbath break and she have lock him up in his bedroom. but he could never repeat more than the first two line of the hymn. 
when israel of the lord believe out of the land of bondage come. 
he say them over and over thousand of time. the driver turn in the saddle to see if there be any chance of capture the revolver and end the ride. dick rouse strike him over the head with the butt and storm himself wide awake. somebody hide in a clump of camel thorn shout a the camel toil up rise grind. a shoot be fire and the silence shut down again bring the desire to sleep. dick could think no long. he be too tire and stiff and cramp to do more than nod uneasily from time to time wake with a start and punch the driver with the pistol. 
be there a moon. he ask drowsily. 
she be near her set. 
i wish that i could see her. halt the camel. at least let me hear the desert talk. 
the man obey. out of the utter stillness come one breath of wind. it rattle the dead leaf of a shrub some distance away and cease. a handful of dry earth detach itself from the edge of a rail trench and crumble softly to the bottom. 
go on. the night be very cold. 
those who have watch till the morning know how the last hour before the light lengthen itself into many eternity. it seem to dick that he have never since the begin of original darkness do anything at all save jolt through the air. once in a thousand year he would finger the nailhead on the saddle front and count them all carefully. century late he would shift his revolver from his right hand to his leave and allow the ease arm to drop down at his side. from the safe distance of london he be watch himself thus employ watch critically. yet whenever he put out his hand to the canvas that he might paint the tawny yellow desert under the glare of the sink moon the black shadow of a camel and the two bow figure atop that hand hold a revolver and the arm be numb from wrist to collar bone. moreover he be in the dark and could see no canvas of any kind whatever. 
the driver grunt and dick be conscious of a change in the air. 
i smell the dawn he whisper. 
it be here and yonder be the troop. have i do well. 
the camel stretch out it neck and roar a there come down wind the pungent reek of camel in the square. 
go on. we must get there swiftly. go on. 
they be move in their camp. there be so much dust that i cannot see what they do. 
be i in good case. go forward. 
they could hear the hum of voice ahead the howl and the bubble of the beast and the hoarse cry of the soldier girth up for the day. 
two or three shot be fire. 
be that at u. surely they can see that i be english dick speak angrily. 
nay it be from the desert the driver answer cower in his saddle. 
go forward my child. well it be that the dawn do not uncover u an hour ago. 
the camel head straight for the column and the shot behind multiply. the child of the desert have arrange that most uncomfortable of surprise a dawn attack for the english troop and be get their distance by snap shot at the only move object without the square. 
what luck. what stupendous and imperial luck. say dick. it s just before the battle mother. oh god ha be most good to me. 
only the agony of the think make him screw up his eye for an instant maisie. 
allahu. we be in say the man a he drive into the rearguard and the camel kneel. 
who the deuce be you. despatch or what. what s the strength of the enemy behind that ridge. how do you get through. ask a dozen voice. for all answer dick take a long breath unbuckle his belt and shout from the saddle at the top of a weary and dusty voice torpenhow. ohe torp. coo ee tor pen how. 
a beard man rake in the ash of a fire for a light to his pipe move very swiftly towards that cry a the rearguard face about begin to fire at the puff of smoke from the hillock around. gradually the scatter white cloudlets draw out into the long line of bank white that hang heavily in the stillness of the dawn before they turn over wave like and glide into the valley. the soldier in the square be cough and swear a their own smoke obstruct their view and they edge forward to get beyond it. a wound camel leap to it foot and roar aloud the cry end in a bubble grunt. some one have cut it throat to prevent confusion. then come the thick sob of a man receive his death wind from a bullet. then a yell of agony and redouble fire. 
there be no time to ask any question. 
get down man. get down behind the camel. 
no. put me i pray in the forefront of the battle. dick turn his face to torpenhow and raise his hand to set his helmet straight but miscalculate the distance knock it off. torpenhow saw that his hair be gray on the temple and that his face be the face of an old man. 
come down you damn fool. dickie come off. 
and dick come obediently but a a tree fall pitch sideways from the bisharin s saddle at torpenhow s foot. his luck have hold to the last even to the crown mercy of a kindly bullet through his head. 
torpenhow kneel under the lee of the camel with dick s body in his arm. 
