stalky & co. 
by rudyard kipling. 
let u now praise famous men men of little show for their work continueth and their work continueth great than their know. 
western wind and open surge tear u from our mother. fling u on a naked shore. twelve bleak house by the shore. seven summer by the shore. mid two hundred brother. 
there we meet with famous men set in office o er u. and they beat on u with rod faithfully with many rod daily beat u on with rod for the love they bore u. 
out of egypt unto troy over himalaya far and sure our band have go hy brasil or babylon island of the southern run and city of cathaia. 
and we all praise famous men ancient of the college. for they teach u common sense try to teach u common sense truth and god s own common sense which be more than knowledge. 
each degree of latitude string about creation seeth one. or more. of u. of one muster all of u of one master all of u. keen in his vocation. 
this we learn from famous men know not it us when they show in daily work man must finish off his work right or wrong his daily work and without excuse. 
servant of the staff and chain mine and fuse and grapnel some before the face of king stand before the face of king. bear gift to diver king gift of case and shrapnel. 
this we learn from famous men teach in our border. who declare d it be best safe easy and best expeditious wise and best to obey your order. 
some beneath the further star bear the great burden. set to serve the land they rule. save he serve no man may rule. serve and love the land they rule. seek praise nor guerdon. 
this we learn from famous men know not we learn it. only a the year go by lonely a the year go by far from help a year go by plain we discern it. 
wherefore praise we famous men prom whose bay we borrow they that put aside today all the joy of their today and with toil of their today buy for u tomorrow. 
bless and praise we famous men men of little show. for their work continueth and their work continueth broad and deep continueth great beyond their know. 
copyright. by rudyard kipling. 
content. 
i. in ambush ii. slave of the lamp part i. iii. an unsavory interlude iv. the impressionist v. the moral reformer vi. a little prep. vii. the flag of their country viii. the last term ix. slave of the lamp part ii. 
in ambush. 
in summer all right mind boy build hut in the furze hill behind the college little lair whittle out of the heart of the prickly bush full of stump odd root end and spike but since they be strictly forbid palace of delight. and for the fifth summer in succession stalky mcturk and beetle. this be before they reach the dignity of a study. have build like beaver a place of retreat and meditation where they smoke. 
now there be nothing in their character a know to mr. prout their house master at all command respect. nor do foxy the subtle red haired school sergeant trust them. his business be to wear tennis shoe carry binoculars and swoop hawklike upon evil boy. have he take the field alone that hut would have be raid for foxy know the manner of his quarry. but providence move mr. prout whose school name derive from the size of his foot be hoofer to investigate on his own account. and it be the cautious stalky who find the track of his pug on the very floor of their lair one peaceful afternoon when stalky would fain have forget prout and his work in a volume of surtees and a new briar wood pipe. crusoe at sight of the footprint do not act more swiftly than stalky. he remove the pipe sweep up all loose match end and depart to warn beetle and mcturk. 
but it be characteristic of the boy that he do not approach his ally till he have meet and confer with little hartopp president of the natural history society an institution which stalky hold in contempt hartopp be more than surprise when the boy meekly a he know how beg to propose himself beetle and mcturk a candidate. confess to a long smother interest in first flowering early butterfly and new arrival and volunteer if mr. hartopp saw fit to enter on the new life at once. be a master hartopp be suspicious. but he be also an enthusiast and his gentle little soul have be gall by chance hear remark from the three and specially beetle. so he be gracious to that repentant sinner and enter the three name in his book. 
then and not till then do stalky seek beetle and mcturk in their house form room. they be stow away book for a quiet afternoon in the furze which they call the wuzzy. 
all up say stalky serenely. i spot heffy s fairy foot round our hut after dinner. bless they re so big. 
con find. do you hide our pipe. say beetle. 
oh no. leave em in the middle of the hut of course. what a blind as you be beetle. d you think nobody think but yourself. well we can t use the hut any more. hoofer will be watchin it. 
bother. likewise blow. say mcturk thoughtfully unpack the volume with which his chest be case. the boy carry their library between their belt and their collar. nice job. this mean we re under suspicion for the rest of the term. 
why. all that heffy ha find be a hut. he and foxy will watch it. it s nothing to do with u. only we mustn t be see that way for a bite. 
yes and where else be we to go. say beetle. you choose that place too an an i want to read this afternoon. 
stalky sit on a desk drum his heel on the form. 
you re a despondin brute beetle. sometimes i think i shall have to drop you altogether. do you ever know your uncle stalky forget you yet. his rebus infectis after i d see heffy s man track marchin round our hut i find little hartopp destricto ense wavin a butterfly net. i conciliate hartopp. tell him that you d read paper to the bug hunter if he d let you join beetle. tell him you like butterfly turkey. anyhow i soothe the hartoffles and we re bug hunter now. 
what s the good of that. say beetle. 
oh turkey kick him. 
in the interest of science bound be largely relax for the member of the natural history society. they could wander if they keep clear of all house practically where they choose. mr. hartopp hold himself responsible for their good conduct. 
beetle begin to see this a mcturk begin the kick. 
i m an as stalky. he say guard the afflict part. _pax_ turkey. i m an as. 
don t stop turkey. isn t your uncle stalky a great man. 
great man say beetle. 
all the same bug huntin s a filthy business say mcturk. how the deuce doe one begin. 
this way say stalky turn to some fag locker behind him. fag be dab at natural history. here s young braybrooke s botany case. he fling out a tangle of decay root and adjust the slide. give one no end of a professional air i think. here s clay minor s geological hammer. beetle can carry that. turkey you d good covet a butterfly net from somewhere. 
i m blow if i do say mcturk simply with immense feel. beetle give me the hammer. 
all right. i m not proud. chuck u down that net on top of the locker stalky. 
that s all right. it s a collapsible jamboree too. beastly luxurious dog these fag be. build like a fishin rod. pon my saint sam but we look the complete bug hunter. now listen to your uncle stalky. we re goin along the cliff after butterfly. very few chap come there. we re goin to leg it too. you d good leave your book behind. 
not much. say beetle firmly. i m not goin to be do out of my fun for a lot of filthy butterfly. 
then you ll sweat horrid. you d good carry my jorrocks. twon t make you any hot. 
they all sweat. for stalky lead them at a smart trot west away along the cliff under the furze hill cross combe after gorzy combe. they take no heed to fly rabbit or flutter fritillary and all that turkey say of geology be utterly unquotable. 
be we go to clovelly. he puff at last and they fling themselves down on the short springy turf between the drone of the sea below and the light summer wind among the inland tree. they be look into a combe half full of old high furze in gay bloom that run up to a fringe of bramble and a dense wood of mix timber and holly. it be a though one half the combe be fill with golden fire to the cliff s edge. the side near to them be open grass and fairly bristle with notice board. 
fee rocious old cove this say stalky read the near. _prosecuted with the utmost rigour of the law. g. m. dabney col. j. p. an all the rest of it. don t seem to me that any chap in his sens would trespass here doe it. 
you ve get to prove damage fore you can prosecute for anything. can t prosecute for trespass say mcturk whose father hold many acre in ireland. that s all rot. 
glad of that cause this look like what we want. not straight across beetle you blind lunatic. anyone could spot u half a mile off. this way. and furl up your beastly butterfly net. 
beetle disconnect the ring thrust the net into a pocket shut up the handle to a two foot stave and slide the cane ring round his waist. stalky lead inland to the wood which be perhaps a quarter of a mile from the sea and reach the fringe of the bramble. 
_now we can get straight down through the furze and never show up at all say the tactician. beetle go ahead and explore. snf. snf. beastly stink of fox somewhere. 
on all four save when he cling to his spectacle beetle worm into the gorse and presently announce between grunt of pain that he have find a very fair fox track. this be well for beetle since stalky pinch him a tergo. down that tunnel they crawl. it be evidently a highway for the inhabitant of the combe. and to their inexpressible joy end at the very edge of the cliff in a few square foot of dry turf wall and roof with impenetrable gorse. 
by gum. there isn t a single thing to do except lie down say stalky return a knife to his pocket. look here. 
he part the tough stem before him and it be a a window open on a far view of lundy and the deep sea sluggishly nose the pebble a couple of hundred foot below. they could hear young jackdaw squawk on the ledge the hiss and jabber of a nest of hawk somewhere out of sight. and with great deliberation stalky spat on to the back of a young rabbit sun himself far down where only a cliff rabbit could have find foot hold. great gray and black gull scream against the jackdaw. the heavy scent acre of bloom round them be alive with low nest bird sing or silent a the shadow of the wheel hawk pass and return. and on the naked turf across the combe rabbit thump and frolic. 
whew. what a place. talk of natural history. this be it say stalky fill himself a pipe. isn t it scrumptious. good old sea. he spat again approvingly and be silent. 
mcturk and beetle have take out their book and be lie on their stomach chin in hand. the sea snore and gurgle. the bird scatter for the moment by these new animal return to their business and the boy read on in the rich warm sleepy silence. 
hullo here s a keeper say stalky shut handley cross cautiously and peer through the jungle. a man with a gun appear on the sky line to the east. confound him he s go to sit down. 
he d swear we be poachin too say beetle. what s the good of pheasant egg. they re always addle too. 
might a well get up to the wood i think say stalky. we don t want g. m. dabney col. j. p. to be bother about u so soon. up the wuzzy and keep quiet. he may have follow u you know. 
beetle be already far up the tunnel. they hear him gasp indescribably. there be the crash of a heavy body leap through the furze. 
aie. yeou little red rascal. i see yeou. the keeper throw the gun to his shoulder and fire both barrel in their direction. the pellet dust the dry stem round them a a big fox plunge between stalky s leg and run over the cliff edge. 
they say nothing till they reach the wood tear dishevel hot but unseen. 
narrow squeak say stalky. i ll swear some of the pellet go through my hair. 
do you see him. say beetle. i almost put my hand on him. wasn t he a wopper. didn t he stink. hullo turkey what s the matter. be you hit. 
mcturk s lean face have turn pearly white. his mouth generally half open be tight shut and his eye blaze. they have never see him like this save once in a sad time of civil war. 
do you know that that be just a bad a murder. he say in a grate voice a he brush prickle from his head. 
well he didn t hit u say stalky. i think it be rather a lark. here where be you go. 
i m go up to the house if there be one say mcturk push through the holly. i be go to tell this colonel dabney. 
be you crazy. he ll swear it serve u jolly well right. he ll report u. it ll be a public lickin. oh turkey don t be an as. think of u. 
you fool. say mcturk turn savagely. d you suppose i m thinkin of u. it s the keeper. 
he s crack say beetle miserably a they follow. indeed this be a new turkey a haughty angular nose lift turkey whom they accompany through a shrubbery on to a lawn where a white whisker old gentleman with a cleek be alternately put and blaspheme vigorously. 
be you colonel dabney. mcturk begin in this new creak voice of his. 
i i be and his eye travel up and down the boy who what the devil d you want. ye ve be disturb my pheasant. don t attempt to deny it. ye needn t laugh at it. mcturk s not too lovely feature have twist themselves into a horrible sneer at the word pheasant. you ve be bird nest. you needn t hide your hat. i can see that you belong to the college. don t attempt to deny it. ye do. your name and number at once sir. ye want to speak to me eh. you saw my notice board. must have. don t attempt to deny it. ye do. damnable oh damnable. 
he choke with emotion. mcturk s heel tap the lawn and he stutter a little two sure sign that he be lose his temper. but why should he the offender be angry. 
lo look here sir. do do you shoot fox. because if you don t your keeper doe. we ve see him. i do don t care what you call u but it s an awful thing. it s the ruin of good feelin among neighbor. a ma man ought to say once and for all how he stand about preservin. it s bad than murder because there s no legal remedy. mcturk be quote confusedly from his father while the old gentleman make noise in his throat. 
do you know who i be. he gurgle at last. stalky and beetle quake. 
no sorr nor do i care if ye belong to the castle itself. answer me now a one gentleman to another. do ye shoot fox or do ye not. 
and four year before stalky and beetle have carefully kick mcturk out of his irish dialect. assuredly he have go mad or take a sunstroke and a assuredly he would be slay once by the old gentleman and once by the head. a public lick for the three be the least they could expect. yet if their eye and ear be to be trust the old gentleman have collapse. it might be a lull before the storm but. 
i do not. he be still gurgle. 
then you must sack your keeper. he s not fit to live in the same county with a god fearin fox. an a vixen too at this time o year. 
do ye come up on purpose to tell me this. 
of course i do ye silly man with a stamp of the foot. would you not have do a much for me if you d see that thing happen on my land now. 
forget forget be the college and the decency due to elder. mcturk be tread again the barren purple mountain of the rainy west coast where in his holiday he be viceroy of four thousand naked acre only son of a three hundred year old house lord of a crazy fish boat and the idol of his father s shiftless tenantry. it be the land man speak to his equal deep call to deep and the old gentleman acknowledge the cry. 
i apologize say he. i apologize unreservedly to you and to the old country. now will you be good enough to tell me your story. 
we be in your combe mcturk begin and he tell his tale alternately a a schoolboy and when the iniquity of the thing overcome him a an indignant squire. conclude. so you see he must be in the habit of it. i we one never want to accuse a neighbor s man. but i take the liberty in this case. 
i see. quite so. for a reason ye have. infamous oh infamous. 
the two have fall into step beside each other on the lawn and colonel dabney be talk a one man to another. this come of promote a fisherman a fisherman from his lobster pot. it s enough to ruin the reputation of an archangel. don t attempt to deny it. it be. your father ha bring you up well. he ha. i d much like the pleasure of his acquaintance. very much indeed. and these young gentleman. english they be. don t attempt to deny it. they come up with you too. extraordinary. extraordinary now. in the present state of education i shouldn t have think any three boy would be well enough ground. but out of the mouth of no no. not that by any odds. don t attempt to deny it. ye re not. sherry always catch me under the liver but beer now. eh. what d you say to beer and something to eat. it s long since i be a boy abominable nuisance. but exception prove the rule. and a vixen too. they be feed on the terrace by a gray haired housekeeper. stalky and beetle merely eat but mcturk with bright eye continue a free and lofty discourse. and ever the old gentleman treat him a a brother. 
my dear man of course ye can come again. do i not say exception prove the rule. the low combe. man dear anywhere ye please so long a you do not disturb my pheasant. the two be not incompatible. don t attempt to deny it. they re not. i ll never allow another gun though. come and go a ye please. i ll not see you and ye needn t see me. ye ve be well bring up. another glass of beer now. i tell you a fisherman he be and a fisherman he shall be to night again. he shall. wish i could drown him. i ll convoy you to the lodge. my people be not precisely ah break to boy but they ll know you again. 
he dismiss them with many compliment by the high lodge gate in the split oak park paling and they stand still. even stalky who have play second not to say a dumb fiddle regard mcturk a one from another world. the two glass of strong home brew have bring a melancholy upon the boy for slowly stroll with his hand in his pocket he croon. oh paddy dear and do ye hear the news that s goin round. 
under other circumstance stalky and beetle would have fall upon him for that song be bar utterly anathema the sin of witchcraft. but see what he have work they dance round him in silence wait till it please him to touch earth. 
the tea bell ring when they be still half a mile from college. mcturk shiver and come out of dream. the glory of his holiday estate have leave him. he be a colleger of the college speak english once more. 
turkey it be immense. say stalky generously. i didn t know you have it in you. you ve get u a hut for the rest of the term where we simply can t be collar. fids. fids. oh fids. i gloat. hear me gloat. 
they spin wildly on their heel jodeling after the accept manner of a gloat which be not unremotely ally to the primitive man s song of triumph and drop down the hill by the path from the gasometer just in time to meet their house master who have spend the afternoon watch their abandon hut in the wuzzy. 
unluckily all mr. prout s imagination lean to the dark side of life and he look on those young eye cherubims most sourly. boy that he understand attend house match and could be account for at any moment. but he have hear mcturk openly deride cricket even house match. beetle s view on the honor of the house he know be incendiary. and he could never tell when the soft and smile stalky be laugh at him. consequently since human nature be what it be those boy have be do wrong somewhere. he hop it be nothing very serious but. 
_ti ra ra la i tu. i gloat. hear me. stalky still on his heel whirl like a dance dervish to the din hall. 
_ti ra la la i tu. i gloat. hear me. beetle spin behind him with outstretched arm. 
_ti ra la la i tu. i gloat. hear me. mcturk s voice crack. 
now be there or be there not a distinct flavor of beer a they shoot past mr. prout. 
he be unlucky in that his conscience a a house master impel him to consult his associate. have he take his pipe and his trouble to little hartopp s room he would perhaps have be save confusion for hartopp believe in boy and know something about them. his fate lead him to king a fellow house master no friend of his but a zealous hater of stalky & co. 
ah haa. say king rub his hand when the tale be tell. curious. now my house never dream of do these thing. 
but you see i ve no proof exactly. 
proof. with the egregious beetle. a if one want it. i suppose it be not impossible for the sergeant to supply it. foxy be consider at least a match for any evasive boy in my house. of course they be smoke and drink somewhere. that type of boy always doe. they think it manly. 
but they ve no follow in the school and they be distinctly er brutal to their junior say prout who have from a distance see beetle return with interest his butterfly net to a tearful fag. 
ah. they consider themselves superior to ordinary delight. self sufficient little animal. there s something in mcturk s hibernian sneer that would make me a little annoy. and they be so careful to avoid all overt act too. it s sheer calculate insolence. i be strongly oppose a you know to interfere with another man s house. but they need a lesson prout. they need a sharp lesson if only to bring down their over weening self conceit. be i you i should devote myself for a week to their little performance. boy of that order and i may flat myself but i think i know boy don t join the bug hunter for love. tell the sergeant to keep his eye open. and of course in my peregrination i may casually keep mine open too. 
_ti ra la la i tu. i gloat. hear me. far down the corridor. 
disgust. say king. where do they pick up these obscene noise. one sharp lesson be what they want. 
the boy do not concern themselves with lesson for the next few day. they have all colonel dabney s estate to play with and they explore it with the stealth of red indian and the accuracy of burglar. they could enter either by the lodge gate on the upper road they be careful to ingratiate themselves with the lodge keeper and his wife drop down into the combe and return along the cliff. or they could begin at the combe and climb up into the road. 
they be careful not to cross the colonel s path he have serve his turn and they would not out wear their welcome nor do they show up on the sky line when they could move in cover. the shelter of the gorze by the cliff edge be their choose retreat. beetle christen it the pleasant isle of aves for the peace and the shelter of it. and here the pipe and tobacco once cache d in a convenient ledge an arm s length down the cliff their position be legally unassailable. 
for observe colonel dabney have not invite them to enter his house. therefore they do not need to ask specific leave to go visit. and school rule be strict on that point. he have merely throw open his ground to them. and since they be lawful bug hunter their extend bound run up to his notice board in the combe and his lodge gate on the hill. 
they be amaze at their own virtue. 
and even if it wasn t say stalky flat on his back star into the blue. even suppose we be mile out of bound no one could get at u through this wuzzy unless he know the tunnel. isn t this good than lyin up just behind the coll. in a blue funk every time we have a smoke. isn t your uncle stalky. 
no say beetle he be stretch at the edge of the cliff spit thoughtfully. we ve get to thank turkey for this. turkey be the great man. turkey dear you re distress heffles. 
gloomy old as. say mcturk deep in a book. 
they ve get u under suspicion say stalky. hoophats be so suspicious somehow. and foxy always make every stalk he doe a sort of sort of. 
scalp say beetle. foxy s a giddy chingangook. 
poor foxy say stalky. he s goin to catch u one of these day. say to me in the gym last night i ve get my eye on you mister corkran. i m only warn you for your good. then i say. well you jolly well take it off again or you ll get into trouble. i m only warnin you for your good. foxy be wrath. 
yes but it s only fair sport for foxy say beetle. it s hefflelinga that ha the evil mind. shouldn t wonder if he think we get tight. 
i never get squiffy but once that be in the holiday say stalky reflectively. an it make me horrid sick. pon my sacred sam though it s enough to drive a man to drink havin an animal like hoof for house master. 
if we attend the match an yell well hit sir an stand on one leg an grin every time heffy say so ho my son. be it thus. an say yes sir an no sir an o sir an please sir like a lot o filthy fa ag heffy ud think no end of u say mcturk with a sneer. 
too late to begin that. 
it s all right. the hefflelinga mean well. but he be an as. and we show him that we think he s an as. an so heffy don t love u. tell me last night after prayer that he be in loco parentis_ beetle grunt. 
the deuce he do. cry stalky. that mean he s maturin something unusual dam mean. last time he tell me that he give me three hundred line for dancin the cachuca in number ten dormitory. loco parentis_ by gum. but what s the odds a long a you re appy. we re all right. 
they be and their very rightness puzzle prout king and the sergeant. boy with bad conscience show it. they slink out past the five court in haste and smile nervously when question. they return disorder in bare time to save a call over. they nod and wink and giggle one to the other scatter at the approach of a master. but stalky and his ally have long out live these manifestation of youth. they stroll forth unconcernedly and return in excellent shape after a light refreshment of strawberry and cream at the lodge. 
the lodge keeper have be promote to keeper vice the murderous fisherman and his wife make much of the boy. the man too give them a squirrel which they present to the natural history society. thereby checkmate little hartopp who wish to know what they be do for science. foxy faithfully work some deep devon lane behind a lonely cross road inn. and it be curious that prout and king member of common room seldom friendly walk together in the same direction that be to say northeast. 
now the pleasant isle of aves lay due southwest. they re deep day vilish deep say stalky. why be they drawin those cover. 
me say beetle sweetly. i ask foxy if he have ever taste the beer there. that be enough for foxy and it cheer him up a little. he and heffy be sniffin round our old hut so long i think they d like a change. 
well it can t last forever say stalky. heffy s bankin up like a thunder cloud an king go rubbin his beastly hand an grinnin like a hyena. it s shockin demoralizin for king. he ll burst some day. 
that day come a little sooner than they expect come when the sergeant whose duty it be to collect defaulter do not attend an afternoon call over. 
tire of pub eh. he s go up to the top of the bill with his binoculars to spot u say stalky. wonder he didn t think of that before. do you see old heffy cock his eye at u when we answer our name. heffy s in it too. ti ra la la i tu. i gloat. hear me. come on. 
aves. say beetle. 
of course but i m not smokin aujourd hui. parceque je jolly well pense that we ll be suivi. we ll go along the cliff slow an give foxy lot of time to parallel u up above. 
they stroll towards the swim bath and presently overtake king. oh don t let me interrupt you he say. engage in scientific pursuit of course. i trust you will enjoy yourselves my young friend. 
you see. say stalky when they be out of earshot. he can t keep a secret. he s followin to cut off our line of retreat. he ll wait at the bath till heffy come along. they ve try every bless place except along the cliff and now they think they ve bottle u. no need to hurry. 
they walk leisurely over the comb till they reach the line of notice board. 
listen a shake. foxy s up wind comin down hill like bean. when you hear him move in the bush go straight across to aves. they want to catch u flagrante delicto. 
they dive into the gorse at right angle to the tunnel openly cross the grass and lay still in aves. 
what do i tell you. stalky carefully put away the pipe and tobacco. the sergeant out of breath be lean against the fence rake the furze with his binoculars but he might a well have try to see through a sand bag. anon prout and king appear behind him. they confer. 
aha. foxy don t like the notice board and he don t like the prickle either. now we ll cut up the tunnel and go to the lodge. hullo. they ve send foxy into cover. 
the sergeant be waist deep in crackle sway furze his ear fill with the noise of his own progress. the boy reach the shelter of the wood and look down through a belt of holly. 
hellish noise. say stalky critically. don t think colonel dabney will like it. i move we go into the lodge and get something to eat. we might a well see the fun out. 
suddenly the keeper pass them at a trot. who m they to combe bottom for lard s sake. master ll be crazy he say. 
poacher simly stalky reply in the broad devon that be the boy s langue de guerre. 
i ll poach em to raights. he drop into the funnel like combe which presently begin to fill with noise notably king s voice cry. go on sergeant. leave him alone you sir. he be execute my order. 
who m yeou to give arders here gingy whisker. yeou come up to the master. come out o that wuzzy. [this be to the sergeant. ] yi i reckon u know the boy yeou m after. they ve tu long ear an vuzzy belly an you nippies they in yeour pocket when they m dead. come on up to master. he ll boy yeou all you re a mind to. yeou other folk bide your side fence. 
explain to the proprietor. you can explain sergeant shout king. evidently the sergeant have surrender to the major force. 
beetle lay at full length on the turf behind the lodge literally bite the earth in spasm of joy. stalky kick him upright. there be nothing of levity about stalky or mcturk save a stray muscle twitch on the cheek. 
they tap at the lodge door where they be always welcome. come yeou right in an set down my little dearrs say the woman. they ll niver touch my man. he ll poach em to right. i fai. fresh berry an cream. u dartymoor folk niver forgit their friend. but them bidevor poacher they ve no hem to their garment. sugar. my man he ve digged a badger for yeou my dearrs. ti in the linhay in a box. 
u ll take un with u when we re finish here. i reckon yeou m busy. we ll bide here an ti washin day with yeou simly say stalky. we m no company to make all vitty for. never yeou mind u. yi. there s plenty cream. 
the woman withdraw wipe her pink hand on her apron and leave them in the parlor. there be a scuffle of foot on the gravel outside the heavily lead diamond pane and then the voice of colonel dabney something clear than a bugle. 
ye can read. you ve eye in your head. don t attempt to deny it. ye have. 
beetle snatch a crochet work antimacassar from the shiny horsehair sofa stuff it into his mouth and roll out of sight. 
you saw my notice board. your duty. curse your impudence sir. your duty be to keep off my ground. talk of duty to me. why why why ye misbegotten poacher ye ll be teach me my a b c next. roarin like a bull in the bush down there. boy. boy. boy. keep your boy at home then. i m not responsible for your boy. but i don t believe it i don t believe a word of it. ye ve a furtive look in your eye a furtive sneakin poachin look in your eye that ud ruin the reputation of an archangel. don t attempt to deny it. ye have. a sergeant. more shame to you then an the bad bargain her majesty ever make. a sergeant to run about the country poachin on your pension. damnable. oh damnable. but i ll be considerate. i ll be merciful. by gad i ll be the very essence o humanity. do ye or do ye not see my notice board. don t attempt to deny it. ye do. silence sergeant. 
twenty one year in the army have leave their mark on foxy. he obey. 
now. march. the high lodge gate shut with a clang. my duty. a sergeant to tell me my duty. puff colonel dabney. good lard. more sergeant. 
it s king. it s king. gulp stalky his head on the horsehair pillow. mcturk be eat the rag carpet before the speckle hearth and the sofa heave to the emotion of beetle. through the thick glass the figure without show blue distort and menace. 
i i protest against this outrage. king have evidently be run up hill. the man be entirely within his duty. let let me give you my card. 
he s in flannel. stalky bury his head again. 
unfortunately most unfortunately i have not one with me but my name be king sir a house master of the college and you will find me prepare fully prepare to answer for this man s action. we ve see three. 
do ye see my notice board. 
i admit we do. but under the circumstance. 
i stand in loco parentis. prout s deep voice be add to the discussion. they could hear him pant. 
f what. colonel dabney be grow more and more irish. 
i m responsible for the boy under my charge. 
ye be be ye. then all i can say be that ye set them a very bad example a dam bad example if i may say so. i do not own your boy. i ve not see your boy an i tell you that if there be a boy grinnin in every bush on the place still ye ve no shadow of a right here comin up from the combe that way an frightenin everything in it. don t attempt to deny it. ye do. ye should have come to the lodge an see me like christian instead of chasin your dam boy through the length and breadth of my cover. in loco parentis ye be. well i ve not forget my latin either an i ll say to you. quis custodiet ipsos custodes. if the master trespass how can we blame the boy. 
but if i could speak to you privately say prout. 
i ll have nothing private with you. ye can be a private a ye please on the other side o that gate an i wish ye a very good afternoon. 
a second time the gate clang. they wait till colonel dabney have return to the house and fell into one another s arm crow for breath. 
oh my soul. oh my king. oh my heffy. oh my foxy. zeal all zeal mr. simple. stalky wipe his eye. oh. oh i oh. i do boil the exciseman. we must get out of this or we ll be late for tea. 
ge ge get the badger and make little hartopp happy. ma ma make em all happy sob mcturk grope for the door and kick the prostrate beetle before him. 
they find the beast in an evil smell box leave two half crown for payment and stagger home. only the badger grunt most marvelous like colonel dabney and they drop him twice or thrice with shriek of helpless laughter. they be but imperfectly recover when foxy meet them by the five court with word that they be to go up to their dormitory and wait till send for. 
well take this box to mr. hartopp s room then. we ve do something for the natural history society at any rate say beetle. 
fraid that win t save you young gen elmen foxy answer in an awful voice. he be sorely ruffle in his mind. 
all sereno foxibus. stalky have reach the extreme stage of hiccup. we we ll never desert you foxy. hound choppin fox in cover be more a proof of vice ain t it. no you re right. i m i m not quite well. 
they ve go a bite too far this time foxy think to himself. very far go i d say excep there be no smell of liquor. an yet it isn t like em somehow. king and prout they ad their dressin down same a me. that s one comfort. 
now we must pull up say stalky rise from the bed on which he have throw himself. we re injure innocence a usual. we don t know what we ve be send up here for do we. 
no explanation. deprive of tea. public disgrace before the house say mcturk whose eye be run over. it s dam serious. 
well hold on till king lose his temper say beetle. he s a libelous old rip an he ll be in a ravin paddy wack. prout s too beastly cautious. keep your eye on king and if he give u a chance appeal to the head. that always make em sick. 
they be summon to their house master s study king and foxy support prout and foxy have three cane under his arm. king leer triumphantly for there be tear undried tear of mirth on the boy cheek. then the examination begin. 
yes they have walk along the cliff. yes they have enter colonel dabney s ground. yes they have see the notice board. at this point beetle sputter hysterically. for what purpose have they enter colonel dabney s ground. well sir there be a badger. 
here king who loathe the natural history society because he do not like hartopp could no long be restrain. he beg them not to add mendacity to open insolence. but the badger be in mr. hartopp s room sir. the sergeant have kindly take it up for them. that dispose of the badger and the temporary check bring king s temper to boil point. they could hear his foot on the floor while prout prepare his lumber inquiry. they have settle into their stride now. their eye cease to sparkle. their face be blank. their hand hang beside them without a twitch. they be learn at the expense of a fellow countryman the lesson of their race which be to put away all emotion and entrap the alien at the proper time. 
so far good. king be import himself more freely into the trial be vengeful where prout be grieve. they know the penalty of trespass. with a fine show of irresolution stalky admit that he have gather some information vaguely bear on this head but he think the sentence be drag out to the uttermost. stalky do not wish to play his trump with such an opponent. mr. king desire no buts nor be he interest in stalky s evasion. they on the other hand might be interest in his poor view. boy who creep who sneak who lurk out of bound even the generous bound of the natural history society which they have falsely join a a cloak for their misdeed their vice their villainy their immorality. 
he ll break cover in a minute say stalky to himself. then we ll run into him before he get away. 
such boy scabrous boy moral leper the current of his word be carry king off his foot evil speaker liar slow belly yea incipient drunkard. 
he be merely work up to a peroration and the boy know it. but mcturk cut through the froth sentence the others echo. 
i appeal to the head sir. 
i appeal to the head sir. 
i appeal to the head sir. 
it be their unquestioned right. drunkenness mean expulsion after a public flog. they have be accuse of it. the case be the head s and the head s alone. 
thou hast appeal unto caesar. unto caesar shalt thou go. they have hear that sentence once or twice before in their career. none the le say king uneasily you would be good advise to abide by our decision my young friend. 
be we allow to associate with the rest of the school till we see the head sir. say mcturk to his house master disregard king. this at once lift the situation to it lofty plane. moreover it mean no work for moral leprosy be strictly quarantine and the head never execute judgment till twenty four cold hour late. 
well er if you persist in your defiant attitude say king with a love look at the cane under foxy s arm. there be no alternative. 
ten minute late the news be over the whole school. stalky and co. have fall at last fall by drink. they have be drink. they have return blind drink from a hut. they be even now lie hopelessly intoxicate on the dormitory floor. a few bold spirit creep up to look and receive boot about the head from the criminal. 
we ve get him get him on the caudine toast fork. say stalky after those hint be take. king ll have to prove his charge up to the giddy hilt. 
too much ticklee him bust beetle quote from a book of his read. didn t i say he d go pop if we lat un bide. 
no prep. either o ye incipient drunkard say mcturk and it s trig night too. hullo. here s our dear friend foxy. more torture foxibus. 
i ve bring you something to eat young gentleman say the sergeant from behind a crowd tray. their war have ever be wag without malice and a suspicion float in foxy s mind that boy who allow themselves to be track so easily might perhaps hold something in reserve. foxy have serve through the mutiny when early and accurate information be worth much. 
i i notice you adn t ad anything to eat an i speak to gumbly an he say you wasn t exactly cut off from supply. so i bring up this. it s your pot be tin ain t it mr. corkran. 
why foxibus you re a brick say stalky. i didn t think you have this much what s the word beetle. 
bowel beetle reply promptly. thank you sergeant. that s young carter s pot ham though. 
there be a c on it. i think it be mr. corkran s. this be a very serious business young gentleman. that s what it be. i didn t know perhaps but there might be something on your side which you hadn t say to mr. king or mr. prout maybe. 
there be. heap foxibus. this from stalky through a full mouth. 
then you see if that be the case it seem to me i might represent it quiet so to say to the ead when he ask me about it. i ve get to take im the charge to night an it look bad on the face of it. 
trocious bad foxy. twenty seven cut in the gym before all the school and public expulsion. wine be a mocker strong drink be ragin quoth beetle. 
it s nothin to make fun of young gentleman. i ave to go to the ead with the charge. an an you mayn t be aware per aps that i be followin you this afternoon. havin my suspicion. 
do ye see the notice board. croak mcturk in the very brogue of colonel dabney. 
ye ve eye in your head. don t attempt to deny it. ye do. say beetle. 
a sergeant. to run about poachin on your pension. damnable o damnable. say stalky without pity. 
good lord. say the sergeant sit heavily upon a bed. where where the devil be you. i might ha know it be a do somewhere. 
oh you clever maniac. stalky resume. we mayn t be aware you be followin u this afternoon mayn t we. think you be stalkin u eh. why we lead you bung into it of course. colonel dabney don t you think he s a nice man foxy. colonel dabney s our pet particular friend. we ve be goin there for week and week he invite u. you and your duty. curse your duty sir. your duty be to keep off his cover. 
you ll never be able to hold up your head again foxy. the fag ll hoot at you say beetle. 
think of your giddy prestige. the sergeant be think hard. 
look ere young gentleman he say earnestly. you aren t surely ever goin to tell be you. wasn t mr. prout and mr. king in in it too. 
foxibusculus they be. they be singular horrid. catch it bad than you. we hear every word of it. you get off easy considerin. if i d be dabney i swear i d ha quodded you. i think i ll suggest it to him to morrow. 
an it s all goin up to the ead. oh good lord. 
every giddy word of it my chingangook say beetle dance. why shouldn t it. we ve do nothing wrong. we ain t poacher. we didn t cut about blastin the character of poor innocent boy say they be drink. 
that i didn t say foxy. i i only say that you be aved uncommon odd when you come back with that badger. mr. king may have take the wrong hint from that. 
course he do. an he ll jolly well shove all the blame on you when he find out he s wrong. we know king if you don t. i m ashamed of you. you ain t fit to be a sergeant say mcturk. 
not with three thorough goin young devil like you i ain t. i ve be have. i ve be ambuscade. horse foot an gun i ve be have an an there ll be no holdin the junior form after this. m rover the ead will send me with a note to colonel dabney to ask if what you say about bein invite be true. 
then you d good go in by the lodge gate this time instead of chasin your dam boy oh that be the epistle to king so it be. we el foxy. stalky put his chin on his hand and regard the victim with deep delight. 
_ti ra la la i tu. i gloat. hear me. say mcturk. foxy bring u tea when we be moral leper. foxy ha a heart. foxy ha be in the army too. 
i wish i d ha have you in my company young gentleman say the sergeant from the depth of his heart. i d ha give you something. 
silence at drum head court martial mcturk go on. i m advocate for the prisoner. and besides this be much too good to tell all the other brute in the coll. they d never understand. they play cricket and say. yes sir and o sir and no sir. 
never mind that. go ahead say stalky. 
well foxy s a good little chap when he doe not esteem himself so a to be clever. 
take not out your ounds on a werry windy day stalky strike in. _i don t care if you let him off. 
nor me say beetle. heffy be my only joy heffy and king. 
i ad to do it say the sergeant plaintively. 
right o. lead away by bad companion in the execution of his duty or or word to that effect. you re dismiss with a reprimand foxy. we win t tell about you. i swear we win t mcturk conclude. bad for the discipline of the school. horrid bad. 
well say the sergeant gather up the tea thing knowin what i know o the young dev gentleman of the college i m very glad to ear it. but what be i to tell the ead. 
anything you jolly well please foxy. we aren t the criminal. 
to say that the head be annoy when the sergeant appear after dinner with the day s crime sheet would be put it mildly. 
corkran mcturk and co. i see. bound a usual. hullo. what the deuce be this. suspicion of drink. whose charge. 
mr. king s sir. i catch em out of bound sir. at least that be ow it look. but there s a lot be ind sir. the sergeant be evidently trouble. 
go on say the head. let u have your version. he and the sergeant have deal with one another for some seven year. and the head know that mr. king s statement depend very largely on mr. king s temper. 
i think they be out of bound along the cliff. but it come out they wasn t sir. i saw them go into colonel dabney s wood and mr. king and mr. prout come along and the fact be sir we be mistake for poacher by colonel dabney s people mr. king and mr. prout and me. there be some word sir on both side. the young gentleman slip ome somehow and they seem ighly humorous sir. mr. king be mistake by colonel dabney himself colonel dabney bein strict. then they prefer to come straight to you sir on account of what what mr. king may ave say about their abits afterwards in mr. prout s study. i only say they be ighly humorous laughin an gigglin an a bite above emselves. they ve since tell me sir in a humorous way that they be invite by colonel dabney to go into be wood. 
i see. they didn t tell their house master that of course. 
they take up mr. king on appeal just a soon a he speak about their abits. put in the appeal at once sir an ask to be send to the dormitory waitin for you. i ve since gather sir in their humorous way sir that some ow or other they ve eard about every word colonel dabney say to mr. king and mr. prout when he mistake em for poacher. i i might ha know when they lead me on so that they eld the inner line of communication. it s it s a plain do sir if you ask me. an they re gloatin over it in the dormitory. 
the head saw saw even to the uttermost farthing and his mouth twitch a little under his mustache. 
send them to me at once sergeant. this case needn t wait over. 
good even say he when the three appear under escort. i want your undivided attention for a few minute. you ve know me for five year and i ve know you for twenty five. i think we understand one another perfectly. i be now go to pay you a tremendous compliment. the brown one please sergeant. thank. you needn t wait. i m go to execute you without rhyme beetle or reason. i know you go to colonel dabney s cover because you be invite. i m not even go to send the sergeant with a note to ask if your statement be true. because i be convince that on this occasion you have adhere strictly to the truth. i know too that you be not drink. you can take off that virtuous expression mcturk or i shall begin to fear you don t understand me. there be not a flaw in any of your character. and that be why i be go to perpetrate a howl injustice. your reputation have be injure haven t they. you have be disgrace before the house haven t you. you have a peculiarly keen regard for the honor of your house haven t you. well now i be go to lick you. 
six apiece be their portion upon that word. 
and this i think the head replace the cane and fling the write charge into the waste paper basket cover the situation. when you find a variation from the normal this will be useful to you in late life always meet him in an abnormal way. and that remind me. there be a pile of paper back on that shelf. you can borrow them if you put them back. i don t think they ll take any harm from be read in the open. they smell of tobacco rather. you will go to prep. this even a usual. good night say that amaze man. 
good night and thank you sir. 
i swear i ll pray for the head to night say beetle. those last two cut be just flick on my collar. there s a monte cristo in that low shelf. i saw it. bag i next time we go to aves. 
dearr man. say mcturk. no gate. no impots. no beastly question. all settle. hullo. what s king goin in to him for king and prout. 
whatever the nature of that interview it do not improve either king s or prout s ruffle plume for when they come out of the head s house eye note that the one be red and blue with emotion a to his nose and that the other be sweat profusely. that sight compensate them amply for the imperial jaw with which they be favor by the two. it seem and who so astonish a they. that they have hold back material fact. be guilty both of suppressio veri and suggestio falsi. well know god against whom they often offend. further that they be malignant in their disposition untrustworthy in their character pernicious and revolutionary in their influence abandon to the devil of wilfulness pride and a most intolerable conceit. ninthly and lastly they be to have a care and to be very careful. 
they be careful a only boy can be when there be a hurt to be inflict. they wait through one suffocate week till prout and king be their royal self again. wait till there be a house match their own house too in which prout be take part. wait further till he have his pad in the pavilion and stand ready to go forth. king be score at the window and the three sit on a bench without. 
say stalky to beetle. i say beetle _quis custodet ipsos custodes. 
don t ask me say beetle. i ll have nothin private with you. ye can be a private a ye please the other end of the bench. and i wish ye a very good afternoon. 
mcturk yawn. 
well ye should ha come up to the lodge like christian instead o chasin your a hem boy through the length an breadth of my cover. i think these house match be all rot. let s go over to colonel dabney s an see if he s collar any more poacher. 
that afternoon there be joy in aves. 
slave of the lamp. 
the music room on the top floor of number five be fill with the aladdin company at rehearsal. dickson quartus commonly know a dick four be aladdin stage manager ballet master half the orchestra and largely librettist for the book have be rewrite and fill with local allusion. the pantomime be to be give next week in the down stair study occupy by aladdin abanazar and the emperor of china. the slave of the lamp with the princess badroulbadour and the widow twankay own number five study across the same land so that the company could be easily assemble. the floor shake to the stamp and go of the ballet while aladdin in pink cotton tights a blue and tinsel jacket and a plume hat bang alternately on the piano and his banjo. he be the move spirit of the game a befit a senior who have pass his army preliminary and hop to enter sandhurst next spring. 
aladdin come to his own at last abanazar lay poison on the floor the widow twankay dance her dance and the company decide it would come all right on the night. 
what about the last song though. say the emperor a tallish fair head boy with a ghost of a mustache at which he pull manfully. we need a rouse old tune. 
john peel. drink puppy drink. suggest abanazar smooth his baggy lilac pajama. pussy abanazar never look more than one half awake but he own a soft slow smile which well suit the part of the wicked uncle. 
stale say aladdin. might a well have grandfather s clock. what s that thing you be hum at prep. last night stalky. 
stalky the slave of the lamp in black tights and doublet a black silk half mask on his forehead whistle lazily where he lay on the top of the piano. it be a catchy music hall tune. 
dick four cock his head critically and squint down a large red nose. 
once more and i can pick it up he say strum. sing the word. 
arrah patsy mind the baby. arrah patsy mind the child. wrap him in an overcoat he s surely go wild. arrah patsy mind the baby. just you mind the child awhile. he ll kick and bite and cry all night. arrah patsy mind the child. 
rippin. oh rippin. say dick four. only we shan t have any piano on the night. we must work it with the banjo play an dance at the same time. you try tertius. 
the emperor push aside his pea green sleeve of state and follow dick four on a heavy nickel plat banjo. 
yes but i m dead all this time. bung in the middle of the stage too say abanazar. 
oh that s beetle s biznai say dick four. vamp it up beetle. don t keep u wait all night. you ve get to get pussy out of the light somehow and bring u all in dancin at the end. 
all right. you two play it again say beetle who in a gray skirt and a wig of chestnut sausage curl set slantwise above a pair of spectacle mend with an old boot lace represent the widow twankay. he wave one leg in time to the hammer refrain and the banjo grow loud. 
um. ah. er aladdin now ha win his wife he sing and dick four repeat it. 
your emperor be appease. tertius fling out his chest a he deliver his line. 
now jump up pussy. say i think i d good come to life. then we all take hand and come forward. we hope you ve all be please. twiggez vous. 
_nous twiggons. good enough. what s the chorus for the final ballet. it s four kick and a turn say dick four. 
oh. er. 
john short will ring the curtain down. and ring the prompter s bell. we hope you know before you go that we all wish you well. 
rippin. rippin. now for the widow s scene with the princess. hurry up turkey. 
mcturk in a violet silk skirt and a coquettish blue turban slouch forward a one thoroughly ashamed of himself. the slave of the lamp climb down from the piano and dispassionately kick him. play up turkey he say. this be serious. but there fell on the door the knock of authority. it happen to be king in gown and mortar board enjoy a saturday even prowl before dinner. 
lock door. lock door. he snap with a scowl. what s the mean of this. and what may i ask be the intention of this this epicene attire. 
pantomime sir. the head give u leave say abanazar a the only member of the sixth concern. dick four stand firm in the confidence bear of well fit tights but beetle strive to efface himself behind the piano. a gray princess skirt borrow from a day boy s mother and a spot cotton bodice unsystematically pad with imposition paper make one ridiculous. and in other regard beetle have a bad conscience. 
a usual. sneer king. futile foolery just when your career such a they may be be hang in the balance. i see. ah i see. the old gang of criminal ally force of disorder corkran the slave of the lamp smile politely mcturk the irishman scowl and of course the unspeakable beetle our friend gigadibs. abanazar the emperor and aladdin have more or le of character and king pass them over. come forth my inky buffoon from behind yonder instrument of music. you supply i presume the doggerel for this entertainment. esteem yourself to be a it be a poet. 
he s find one of em think beetle note the flush on king s cheek bone. 
i have just have the pleasure of read an effusion of yours to my address i believe an effusion intend to rhyme. so so you despise me master gigadibs do you. i be quite aware you need not explain that it be ostensibly not intend for my edification. i read it with laughter yes with laughter. these paper pellet of inky boy still a boy we be master gigadibs do not disturb my equanimity. 
wonder which it be think beetle. he have launch many lampoon on an appreciative public ever since he discover that it be possible to convey reproof in rhyme. 
in sign of his unruffled calm king proceed to tear beetle whom he call gigadibs slowly asunder. from his untie shoestring to his mend spectacle. the life of a poet at a big school be hard. he hold him up to the derision of his associate with the usual result. his wild flower of speech king have an unpleasant tongue restore him to good humor at the last. he draw a lurid picture of beetle s latter end a a scurrilous pamphleteer die in an attic scatter a few compliment over mcturk and corkran and remind beetle that he must come up for judgment when call upon go to common room where he triumph anew over his victim. 
and the bad of it he explain in a loud voice over his soup be that i waste such gem of sarcasm on their thick head. it s mile above them i m certain. 
we ell say the school chaplain slowly i don t know what corkran s appreciation of your style may be but young mcturk read ruskin for his amusement. 
nonsense. he doe it to show off. i mistrust the dark celt. 
he doe nothing of the kind. i go into their study the other night unofficially and mcturk be glue up the back of four odd number of fors clavigera. 
i don t know anything about their private life say a mathematical master hotly but i ve learn by bitter experience that number five study be best leave alone. they be utterly soulless young devil. 
he blush a the others laugh. 
but in the music room there be wrath and bad language. only stalky slave of the lamp lay on the piano unmoved. 
that little swine manders miner must have show him your stuff. he s always suckin up to king. go and kill him he drawl. which one be it beetle. 
dunno say beetle struggle out of the skirt. there be one about his hunt for popularity with the small boy and the other one be one about him in hell tellin the devil he be a balliol man. i swear both of em rhyme all right. by gum. p rap manders minor show him both. i ll correct his caesura for him. 
he disappear down two flight of stair flush a small pink and white boy in a form room next door to king s study which again be immediately below his own and chase him up the corridor into a form room sacred to the revel of the low third. thence he come back greatly disorder to find mcturk stalky and the others of the company in his study enjoy an unlimited brew coffee cocoa bun new bread hot and steam sardine sausage ham and tongue paste pilchard three jam and at least a many pound of devonshire cream. 
my hat. say he throw himself upon the banquet. who stump up for this stalky. it be within a month of term end and blank starvation have reign in the study for week. 
you say stalky serenely. 
confound you. you haven t be pop my sunday bag then. 
keep your hair on. it s only your watch. 
watch. i lose it week ago. out on the burrow when we try to shoot the old ram the day our pistol burst. 
it drop out of your pocket. you re so beastly careless beetle. and mcturk and i keep it for you. i ve be wear it for a week and you never notice. take it into bideford after dinner to day. get thirteen and sevenpence. here s the ticket. 
well that s pretty average cool say abanazar behind a slab of cream and jam a beetle reassure upon the safety of his sunday trouser show not even surprise much le resentment. indeed it be mcturk who grow angry say. 
you give him the ticket stalky. you pawn it. you unmitigated beast. why last month you and beetle sell mine. never get a sniff of any ticket. 
ah that be because you lock your trunk and we waste half the afternoon hammer it open. we might have pawn it if you d behave like a christian turkey. 
my aunt. say abanazar you chap be communist. vote of thank to beetle though. 
that s beastly unfair say stalky when i take all the trouble to pawn it. beetle never know he have a watch. oh i say rabbit egg give me a lift into bideford this afternoon. 
rabbit egg be the local carrier an outcrop of the early devonian formation. it be stalky who have invent his unlovely name. he be pretty average drink or he wouldn t have do it. rabbit egg be a little shy of me somehow. but i swear it be pax between u and give him a bob. he stop at two pub on the way in so he ll be howl drink to night. oh don t begin read beetle. there s a council of war on. what the deuce be the matter with your collar. 
chivy manders minor into the low third box room. have all his beastly little friend on top of me say beetle from behind a jar of pilchard and a book. 
you as. any fool could have tell you where manders would bunk to say mcturk. 
i didn t think say beetle meekly scoop out pilchard with a spoon. 
course you didn t. you never do. mcturk adjust beetle s collar with a savage tug. don t drop oil all over my fors or i ll scrag you. 
shut up you you irish biddy. tisn t your beastly fors. it s one of mine. 
the book be a fat brown back volume of the late sixty which king have once throw at beetle s head that beetle might see whence the name gigadibs come. beetle have quietly annex the book and have see several thing. the quarter comprehend verse live and eat with him a the bedropped page show. he remove himself from all that world drift at large with wondrous men and woman till mcturk hammer the pilchard spoon on his head and he snarl. 
beetle. you re oppress and insult and bully by king. don t you feel it. 
let me alone. i can write some more poetry about him if i be i suppose. 
mad. quite mad. say stalky to the visitor a one exhibit strange beast. beetle read an as call brownin and mcturk read an as call ruskin. and. 
ruskin isn t an as say mcturk. he s almost a good a the opium eater. he say we re child of noble race train by surround art. that mean me_ and the way i decorate the study when you two badger would have stick up bracket and christmas card. child of a noble race train by surround art stop read or i ll shove a pilchard down your neck. 
it s two to one say stalky warningly and beetle close the book in obedience to the law under which he and his companion have live for six checker year. 
the visitor look on delight. number five study have a reputation for more variegate insanity than the rest of the school put together. and so far a it code allow friendship with outsider it be polite and open hearted to it neighbor on the same land. 
what rot do you want now. say beetle. 
king. war. say mcturk jerk his head toward the wall where hang a small wooden west african war drum a gift to mcturk from a naval uncle. 
then we shall be turn out of the study again say beetle who love his flesh pot. mason turn u out for just warble on it. mason be the mathematical master who have testify in common room. 
warble. o lord. say abanazar. we couldn t hear ourselves speak in our study when you play the infernal thing. what s the good of get turn out of your study anyhow. 
we live in the form room for a week too say beetle tragically. and it be beastly cold. 
ye e but mason s room be fill with rat every day we be out. it take him a week to draw the inference say mcturk. he loathe rat. minute he let u go back the rat stop. mason s a little shy of u now but there be no evidence. 
jolly well there wasn t say stalky when i get out on the roof and drop the beastly thing down his chimney. but look here question be be our character good enough just now to stand a study row. 
never mind mine say beetle. king swear i haven t any. 
i m not think of you stalky return scornfully. you aren t go up for the army you old bat. i don t want to be expel and the head s get rather shy of u too. 
rot. say mcturk. the head never expel except for beastliness or steal. but i forget. you and stalky be thief regular burglar. 
the visitor gasp but stalky interpret the parable with large grin. 
well you know that little beast manders minor saw beetle and me hammerin mcturk s trunk open in the dormitory when we take his watch last month. of course manders sneak to mason and mason solemnly take it up a a case of theft to get even with u about the rat. 
that just put mason into our giddy hand say mcturk blandly. we be nice to him because he be a new master and want to win the confidence of the boy. pity he draw inference though. stalky go to his study and pretend to blub and tell mason he d lead a new life if mason would let him off this time but mason wouldn t. say it be his duty to report him to the head. 
vindictive swine. say beetle. it be all those rat. then i blub too and stalky confess that he d be a thief in regular practice for six year ever since he come to the school. and that i d teach him a la fagin. mason turn white with joy. he think he have u on toast. 
gorgeous. gorgeous. say dick four. we never hear of this. 
course not. mason keep it jolly quiet. he write down all our statement on impot paper. there wasn t anything he wouldn t believe say stalky. 
and hand it all up to the head with an extempore prayer. it take about forty page say beetle. i help him a lot. 
and then you crazy idiot. say abanazar. 
oh we be send for. and stalky ask to have the deposition read out and the head knock him spin into a waste paper basket. then he give u eight cut apiece welter for for takin unheard of liberty with a new master. i saw his shoulder shake when we go out. do you know say beetle pensively that mason can t look at u now in second lesson without blush. we three stare at him sometimes till he regularly trickle. he s an awfully sensitive beast. 
he read eric or little by little say mcturk. so we give him st. winifred s or the world of school. they spend all their spare time steal at st. winifred s when they weren t pray or get drink at pub. well that be only a week ago and the head s a little bite shy of u. he call it constructive deviltry. stalky invent it all. 
not the least good have a row with a master unless you can make an as of him say stalky extend at ease on the hearth rug. if mason didn t know number five well he s learn that s all. now my dearly beloved earers stalky curl his leg under him and address the company we ve get that strong perseverin man king on our hand. he go mile out of his way to provoke a conflict. here stalky snap down the black silk domino and assume the air of a judge. he ha oppress beetle mcturk and me privatim et seriatim_ one by one a he could catch u. but now he ha insult number five up in the music room and in the presence of these these ossifers of the ninety third wot look like hairdresser. binjimin we must make him cry capivi. 
stalky s read do not include brown or ruskin. 
and besides say mcturk he s a philistine a basket hanger. he wear a tartan tie. ruskin say that any man who wear a tartan tie will without doubt be damn everlastingly. 
bravo mcturk say tertius. i think he be only a beast. 
he s that too of course but he s bad. he ha a china basket with blue ribbon and a pink kitten on it hang up in his window to grow musk in. you know when i get all that old oak carvin out of bideford church when they be restore it. ruskin say that any man who ll restore a church be an unmitigated sweep. and stick it up here with glue. well king come in and want to know whether we d do it with a fret saw. yah. he be the king of basket hanger. 
down go mcturk s inky thumb over an imaginary arena full of bleed king. _placete_ child of a generous race. he cry to beetle. 
well begin beetle doubtfully he come from balliol but i m go to give the beast a chance. you see i can always make him hop with some more poetry. he can t report me to the head because it make him ridiculous. stalky s quite right. but he shall have his chance. 
beetle open the book on the table run his finger down a page and begin at random. 
or who in moscow toward the czar with the demure of footfall over the kremlin s pavement white with serpentine and syenite step with five other general. 
that s no good. try another say stalky. 
hold on a shake. i know what s come. mcturk be read over beetle s shoulder. 
that simultaneously take snuff for each to have pretext enough and kerchiefwise unfold his sash which softness self be yet the stuff. 
gummy. what a sentence. 
to hold fast where a steel chain snap and leave the grand white neck no gash. 
full stop. 
don t understand a word of it say stalky. 
more fool you. construe say mcturk. those six bargee scrag the czar and leave no evidence. actum est with king. 
he give me that book too say beetle lick his lip. 
there s a great text in galatian once you trip on it entail twenty nine distinct damnation one sure if another fail. 
then irrelevantly. 
setebos. setebos. and setebos. thinketh he liveth in the cold of the moon. 
he s just come in from dinner say dick four look through the window. manders minor be with him. 
safe place for manders minor just now say beetle. 
then you chap have good clear out say stalky politely to the visitor. tisn t fair to mix you up in a study row. besides we can t afford to have evidence. 
be you go to begin at once. say aladdin. 
immediately if not sooner say stalky and turn out the gas. strong perseverin man king. make him cry capivi. g way binjimin. 
the company retreat to their own neat and spacious study with expectant soul. 
when stalky blow out his nostril like a horse say aladdin to the emperor of china he s on the war path. wonder what king will get. 
bean say the emperor. number five generally pay in full. 
wonder if i ought to take any notice of it officially say abanazar who have just remember he be a prefect. 
it s none of your business pussy. besides if you do we d have them hostile to u. and we shouldn t be able to do any work say aladdin. they ve begin already. 
now that west african war drum have be make to signal across estuary and delta. number five be forbid to wake the engine within earshot of the school. but a deep devastate drone fill the passage a mcturk and beetle scientifically rub it top. anon it change to the blare of trumpet of savage pursue trumpet. then a mcturk slap one side smooth with the blood of ancient sacrifice the roar break into short cough howl such a the wound gorilla throw in his native forest. these be follow by the wrath of king three step at a time up the staircase with a dry whir of the gown. aladdin and company listen squeak with excitement a the door crash open. king stumble into the darkness and curse those performer by the god of balliol and quiet repose. 
turn out for a week say aladdin hold the study door on the crack. key to be bring down to his study in five minute. brute. barbarian. savage. child. he s rather agitate. arrah patsy mind the baby he sing in a whisper a he cling to the door knob dance a noiseless war dance. 
king go down stair again and beetle and mcturk light the gas to confer with stalky. but stalky have vanish. 
look like no end of a mess say beetle collect his book and mathematical instrument case. a week in the form room isn t any advantage to u. 
yes but don t you see that stalky isn t here you owl. say mcturk. take down the key and look sorrowful. king ll only jaw you for half an hour. i m go to read in the low form room. 
but it s always me mourn beetle. 
wait till we see say mcturk hopefully. i don t know any more than you do what stalky mean but it s something. go down and draw king s fire. you re use to it. 
no sooner have the key turn in the door than the lid of the coal box which be also the window seat lift cautiously. it have be a tight fit even for the lithe stalky his head between his knee and his stomach under his right ear. from a drawer in the table he take a well wear catapult a handful of buckshot and a duplicate key of the study. noiselessly he raise the window and kneel by it his face turn to the road the wind slop tree the dark level of the burrow and the white line of breaker fall nine deep along the pebbleridge. far down the steep bank devonshire lane he hear the husky hoot of the carrier s horn. there be a ghost of melody in it a it might have be the wind in a gin bottle essay to sing it s a way we have in the army. 
stalky smile a tight lipped smile and at extreme range open fire. the old horse half wheel in the shaft. 
where he gwaine tu. hiccough rabbit egg. another buckshot tear through the rotten canvas tilt with a vicious zipp. 
_habet. murmur stalky a rabbit egg swear into the patient night protest that he saw the dommed colleger who be assault him. 
and so king be say in a high head voice to beetle whom he have keep to play with before manders minor well know that it hurt a fifth form boy to be hold up to a fag s derision and so master beetle in spite of all our verse which we be so proud of when we presume to come into direct conflict with even so humble a representative of authority a myself for instance we be turn out of our study be we not. 
yes sir say beetle with a sheepish grin on his lip and murder in his heart. hope have nearly leave him but he cling to a well establish faith that never be stalky so dangerous a when he be invisible. 
you be not require to criticise thank you. turn out of our study we be just a if we be no good than little manders minor. only inky schoolboy we be and must be treat a such. 
beetle prick up his ear for rabbit egg be swear savagely on the road and some of the language enter at the upper sash. king believe in ventilation. he stride to the window gown and majestic very visible in the gaslight. 
i zee un. i zee un. roar rabbit egg now that he have find a visible foe another shoot from the darkness above. yi yeou yeou long nose fower eye gingy whisker beggar. yeu m tu old for such goin s on. aie. poultice yeour nose i tall ee. poultice yeour long nose. 
beetle s heart leap up within him. somewhere somehow he know stalky move behind these manifestation. there be hope and the prospect of revenge. he would embody the suggestion about the nose in deathless verse. king throw up the window and sternly rebuke rabbit egg. but the carrier be beyond fear or fawn. he have descend from the cart and be stoop by the roadside. 
it all fell swiftly a a dream. manders minor raise his hand to his head with a cry a a jag flint cannon on to some rich tree calf binding in the book shelf. another quoited along the write table. beetle make zealous feint to stop it and in that endeavor overturn a student s lamp which drip via king s paper and some choice book greasily on to a persian rug. there be much break glass on the window seat. the china basket mcturk s aversion crack to flinders have drop her musk plant and it earth over the red rep cushion. manders minor be bleed profusely from a cut on the cheek bone. and king use strange word every one of which beetle treasure run forth to find the school sergeant that rabbit egg might be instantly cast into jail. 
poor chap. say beetle with a false feign sympathy. let it bleed a little. that ll prevent apoplexy and he hold the blind head skilfully over the table and the paper on the table a he guide the howl manders to the door. 
then do beetle alone with the wreckage return good for evil. how in that office a complete set of gibbon be scar all along the back a by a flint. how so much black and copy ink come to be mingle with manders s gore on the table cloth. why the big gum bottle unstoppered have roll semicircularly across the floor. and in what manner the white china door knob grow to be paint with yet more of manders s young blood be matter which beetle do not explain when the rabid king return to find him stand politely over the reek hearth rug. 
you never tell me to go sir he say with the air of casabianca and king consign him to the out darkness. 
but it be to a boot cupboard under the staircase on the grind floor that he hasten to loose the mirth that be destroy him. he have not draw breath for a first whoop of triumph when two hand choke him dumb. 
go to the dormitory and get me my thing. bring em to number five lavatory. i m still in tights hiss stalky sit on his head. don t run. walk. 
but beetle stagger into the form room next door and delegate his duty to the yet unenlightened mcturk with an hysterical precis of the campaign thus far. so it be mcturk of the wooden visage who bring the clothe from the dormitory while beetle pant on a form. then the three bury themselves in number five lavatory turn on all the tap fill the place with steam and drop weep into the bath where they piece out the war. 
_moi. je. ich. ego. gasp stalky. i wait till i couldn t hear myself think while you play the drum. hide in the coal locker and tweak rabbit egg and rabbit egg rock king. wasn t it beautiful. do you hear the glass. 
why he he he shriek mcturk one tremble finger point at beetle. 
why i i i be through it all beetle howl. in his study be jaw. 
oh my soul. say stalky with a yell disappear under water. 
the the glass be nothing. manders minor s head s cut open. la la lamp upset all over the rug. blood on the book and paper. the gum. the gum. the gum. the ink. the ink. the ink. oh lord. 
then stalky leap out all pink a he be and shake beetle into some sort of coherence. but his tale prostrate them afresh. 
i bunk for the boot cupboard the second i hear king go down stair. beetle tumble in on top of me. the spare key s hide behind the loose board. there isn t a shadow of evidence say stalky. they be all chant together. 
and he turn u out himself himself himself. this from mcturk. he can t begin to suspect u. oh stalky it s the lovely thing we ve ever do. 
gum. gum. dollop of gum. shout beetle his spectacle gleam through a sea of lather. ink and blood all mix. i hold the little beast s head all over the latin prose for monday. golly how the oil stink. and rabbit egg tell king to poultice his nose. do you hit rabbit egg stalky. 
do i jolly well not. tweak him all over. do you hear him curse. oh i shall be sick in a minute if i don t stop. 
but dress be a slow process because mcturk be oblige to dance when he hear that the musk basket be break and moreover beetle retail all king s language with emendation and purple inset. 
shockin. say stalky collapse in a helpless welter of half hitch trouser. so dam bad too for innocent boy like u. wonder what they d say at st. winifred s or the world of school. by gum. that remind me we owe the low third one for assaultin beetle when he chivy manders minor. come on. it s an alibi samivel. and besides if we let em off they ll be bad next time. 
the low third have set a guard upon their form room for the space of a full hour which to a boy be a lifetime. now they be busy with their saturday even business cook sparrow over the gas with rusty nib. brew unholy drink in gallipots. skin mole with pocket knife. attend to paper tray full of silkworm or discuss the iniquity of their elder with a freedom fluency and point that would have amaze their parent. the blow fell without warn. stalky upset a form crowd with small boy among their own cook utensil mcturk raid the untidy locker a a terrier dig at a rabbit hole while beetle pour ink upon such head a he could not appeal to with a smith s classical dictionary. three brisk minute account for many silkworm pet larva french exercise school cap half prepare bone and skull and a dozen pot of home make sloe jam. it be a great wreckage and the form room look a though three conflict tempest have smite it. 
phew. say stalky draw breath outside the door. amid groan of oh you beastly ca ad. you think yourselves awful funny and so forth. _that s all right. never let the sun go down upon your wrath. rummy little devil fag. get no notion o combinin. 
six of em sit on my head when i go in after manders minor say beetle. i warn em what they d get though. 
everybody pay in full beautiful feelin say mcturk absently a they stroll along the corridor. don t think we d good say much about king though do you stalky. 
not much. our line be injure innocence of course same a when the sergeant report u on suspicion of smoke in the bunker. if i hadn t think of buyin the pepper and spillin it all over our clothe he d have smelt u. king be gha astly facetious about that. call u bird stuffer in form for a week. 
ah king hate the natural history society because little hartopp be president. mustn t do anything in the coll. without glorifyin king say mcturk. but he must be a putrid as know to suppose at our time o life we d go and stuff bird like fag. 
poor old king. say beetle. he s unpopular in common room and they ll chaff his head off about rabbit egg. golly. how lovely. how beautiful. how holy. but you should have see his face when the first rock come in. and the earth from the basket. 
so they be all stricken helpless for five minute. 
they repair at last to abanazar s study and be receive reverently. 
what s the matter. say stalky quick to realize new atmosphere. 
you know jolly well say abanazar. you ll be expel if you get catch. king be a gibber maniac. 
who. which. what. expel for how. we only play the war drum. we ve get turn out for that already. 
do you chap mean to say you didn t make rabbit egg drink and bribe him to rock king s room. 
bribe him. no that i ll swear we didn t say stalky with a relieve heart for he love not to tell lie. what a low mind you ve get pussy. we ve be down have a bath. do rabbit egg rock king. strong perseverin man king. shockin. 
awf ly. king s froth at the mouth. there s bell for prayer. come on. 
wait a sec say stalky continue the conversation in a loud and cheerful voice a they descend the stair. what do rabbit egg rock king for. 
i know say beetle a they pass king s open door. i be in his study. 
hush you as. hiss the emperor of china. oh he s go down to prayer say beetle watch the shadow of the house master on the wall. rabbit egg be only a bite drink swearin at his horse and king jaw him through the window and then of course he rock king. 
do you mean to say say stalky that king begin it. 
king be behind them and every well weigh word go up the staircase like an arrow. i can only swear say beetle that king curse like a bargee. simply disgustin. i m goin to write to my father about it. 
good report it to mason suggest stalky. he know our tender conscience. hold on a shake. i ve get to tie my boot lace. 
the other study hurry forward. they do not wish to be drag into stage aside of this nature. so it be leave to mcturk to sum up the situation beneath the gun of the enemy. 
you see say the irishman hang on the banister he begin by bully little chap. then he bully the big chap. then he bully some one who isn t connect with the college and then catch it. serf him jolly well right. i beg your pardon sir. i didn t see you be come down the staircase. 
the black gown tear past like a thunder storm and in it wake three abreast arm link the aladdin company roll up the big corridor to prayer sing with most innocent intention. 
arrah patsy mind the baby. arrah patsy mind the child. wrap him up in an overcoat he s surely goin wild. arrah patsy mind the baby. just ye mind the child awhile. he ll kick an bite an cry all night. arrah patsy mind the child. 
an unsavory interlude. 
it be a maiden aunt of stalky who send him both book with the inscription to dear artie on his sixteenth birthday. it be mcturk who order their hypothecation. and it be beetle return from bideford who fling them on the window sill of number five study with news that bastable would advance but ninepence on the two. eric. or little by little be almost a great a drug a st. winifred s. an i don t think much of your aunt. we re nearly out of cartridge too artie dear. 
whereupon stalky rise up to grapple with him but mcturk sit on stalky s head call him a pure mind boy till peace be declare. a they be grievously in arrears with a latin prose a it be a blaze july afternoon and a they ought to have be at a house cricket match they begin to renew their acquaintance intimate and unholy with the volume. 
here we be. say mcturk. corporal punishment produce on eric the bad effect. he burn not with remorse or regret make a note o that beetle but with shame and violent indignation. he glare oh naughty eric. let s get to where he go in for drink. 
hold on half a shake. here s another sample. the sixth he say be the palladium of all public school. but this lot stalky rap the gild book can t prevent fellow drinkin and stealin an lettin fag out of window at night an an doin what they please. golly what we ve miss not goin to st. winifred s. 
i m sorry to see any boy of my house take so little interest in their match. 
mr. prout could move very silently if he please though that be no merit in a boy s eye. he have fling open the study door without knock another sin and look at them suspiciously. very sorry indeed i be to see you frowsting in your study. 
we ve be out ever since dinner sir say. mcturk wearily. one house match be just like another and their ploy of that week happen to be rabbit shoot with saloon pistol. 
i can t see a ball when it s come sir say beetle. i ve have my gig lamp smash at the net till i get excuse. i wasn t any good even a a fag then sir. 
tuck be probably your form. tuck and brew. why can t you three take any interest in the honor of your house. 
they have hear that phrase till they be weary. the honor of the house be prout s weak point and they know well how to flick him on the raw. 
if you order u to go down sir of course we ll go say stalky with madden politeness. but prout know good than that. he have try the experiment once at a big match when the three self isolate stand to attention for half an hour in full view of all the visitor to whom fag subsidize for that end point them out a victim of prout s tyranny. and prout be a sensitive man. 
in the infinitely petty confederacy of the common room king and macrea fellow house master have bear it in upon him that by game and game alone be salvation work. boy neglect be boy lose. they must be discipline. leave to himself prout would have make a sympathetic house master. but he be never so leave and with the devilish insight of youth the boy know to whom they be indebted for his zeal. 
must we go down sir. say mcturk. 
i don t want to order you to do what a right think boy should do gladly. i m sorry. and he lurch out with some hazy impression that he have sow good seed on poor grind. 
now what doe he suppose be the use of that. say beetle. 
oh he s crack. king jaw him in common room about not keepin u up to the mark an macrea burble about dithcipline an old heffy sit between em sweatin big drop. i hear oke. the common room butler. talk to richards. prout s house servant. about it down in the basement the other day when i go down to bag some bread say stalky. 
what do oke say. demand mcturk throw eric into a corner. 
oh he say they make more nise nor a nest full o jackdaw an half of it like we d no ear to our head that wait on em. they talk over old prout what he ve do an leave undo about his boy. an how their boy be fine boy an his n be dom bad. well oke talk like that you know and richards get awf ly wrathy. he ha a down on king for something or other. wonder why. 
why king talk about prout in form room make allusion an all that only half the chap be such ass they can t see what he s drivin at. and d you remember what he say about the casual house last tuesday. he mean u. they say he say perfectly beastly thing to his own house make fun of prout s say beetle. 
well we didn t come here to mix up in their row mcturk say wrathfully. who ll bathe after call over. king s takin it in the cricket field. come on. turkey seize his straw and lead the way. 
they reach the sun blister pavilion over against the gray pebbleridge just before roll call and ask no question gather from king s voice and manner that his house be on the road to victory. 
ah ha. say he turn to show the light of his countenance. here we have the ornament of the casual house at last. you consider cricket beneath you i believe the crowd flannelled snigger and from what i have see this afternoon i fancy many others of your house hold the same view. and may i ask what you purpose to do with your noble self till tea time. 
go down to bathe sir say stalky. 
and whence this sudden zeal for cleanliness. there be nothing about you that particularly suggest it. indeed so far a i remember i may be at fault but a short time ago. 
five year sir say beetle hotly. 
king scowl. _one of you be that thing call a water funk. yes a water funk. so now you wish to wash. it be well. cleanliness never injure a boy or a house. we will proceed to business and he address himself to the call over board. 
what the deuce do you say anything to him for beetle. say mcturk angrily a they stroll towards the big open sea bath. 
twasn t fair remindin one of bein a water funk. my first term too. heap of chap be when they can t swim. 
yes you as. but he saw he d fetch you. you ought never to answer king. 
but it wasn t fair stalky. 
my hat. you ve be here six year and you expect fairness. well you be a dither idiot. 
a knot of king s boy also bind for the bath hail them beseech them to wash for the honor of their house. 
that s what come of king s jawin and messin. those young animal wouldn t have think of it unless he d put it into their head. now they ll be funny about it for week say stalky. don t take any notice. 
the boy come near shout an opprobrious word. at last they move to windward ostentatiously hold their nose. 
that s pretty say beetle. they ll be sayin our house stink next. 
when they return from the bath damp head languid at peace with the world beetle s forecast come only too true. they be meet in the corridor by a fag a common low second fag who at arm s length hand them a carefully wrap piece of soap with the compliment of king s house. 
hold on say stalky check immediate attack. who put you up to this nixon. rattray and white. those be two leader in king s house. thank you. there s no answer. 
oh it s too sicken to have this kind o rot shove on to a chap. what s the sense of it. what s the fun of it. say mcturk. 
it will go on to the end of the term though beetle wag his head sorrowfully. he have wear many jest threadbare on his own account. 
in a few day it become an establish legend of the school that prout s house do not wash and be therefore noisome. mr. king be please to smile succulently in form when one of his boy draw aside from beetle with certain gesture. 
there seem to be some disability attach to you my beetle or else why should burton major withdraw so to speak the hem of his garment. i confess i be still in the dark. will some one be good enough to enlighten me. 
naturally he be enlighten by half the form. 
extraordinary. most extraordinary. however each house ha it tradition with which i would not for the world interfere. we have a prejudice in favor of wash. go on beetle from jugurtha tamen and if you can avoid the more flagrant form of guess. 
prout s house be furious because macrea s and hartopp s house join king s to insult them. they call a house meet after dinner an excite and angry meet of all save the prefect whose dignity though they sympathize do not allow them to attend. they read ungrammatical resolution and make speech begin gentleman we have meet on this occasion and end with it s a beastly shame precisely a house have do since time and school begin. 
number five study attend with it usual air of bland patronage. at last mcturk of the lanthorn jaw deliver himself. 
you jabber and jaw and burble and that s about all you can do. what s the good of it. king s house ll only gloat because they ve draw you and king will gloat too. besides that resolution of orrin s be chock full of bad grammar and king ll gloat over that. 
i think you an beetle would put it right an an we d post it in the corridor say the composer meekly. 
_par si je le connai. i m not goin to meddle with the biznai say beetle. it s a gloat for king s house. turkey s quite right. 
well win t stalky then. 
but stalky puff out his cheek and squint down his nose in the style of panurge and all he say be oh you abject burblers. 
you re three beastly scab. be the instant retort of the democracy and they go out amid execration. 
this be piffle say mcturk. let s get our sally and go and shoot bunny. 
three saloon pistol with a supply of bulleted breech cap be store in stalky s trunk and this trunk be in their dormitory and their dormitory be a three bed attic one open out of a ten bed establishment which in turn communicate with the great range of dormitory that run practically from one end of the college to the other. macrea s house lay next to prout s king s next to macrea s and hartopp s beyond that again. carefully lock door divide house from house but each house in it internal arrangement the college have originally be a terrace of twelve large house be a replica of the next. one straight roof cover all. 
they find stalky s bed draw out from the wall to the leave of the dormer window and the latter end of richards protrude from a two foot square cupboard in the wall. 
what s all this. i ve never notice it before. what be you tryin to do fatty. 
fillin basin muster corkran. richards s voice be hollow and muffle. they ve be savin me trouble. yi. 
look like it say mcturk. hi. you ll stick if you don t take care. 
richards back puff. 
i can t rache un. yi te a turncock muster mcturk. they ve take an runned all the watter pipe a storey high in the house runned em all along under the ang of the heave like. runned em in last holiday. i can t rache the turncock. 
let me try say stalky dive into the aperture. 
slip ee to the leave then muster corkran. slip ee to the leave an feel in the dark. 
to the leave stalky wriggle and saw a long line of lead pipe disappear up a triangular tunnel whose roof be the rafter and board of the college roof whose floor be sharp edge joist and whose side be the rough stud of the lath and plaster wall under the dormer. 
rummy show. how far doe it go. 
right along muster corkran right along from end to end. her run under the ang of the heave. have ee rached the stopcock yet. mr. king get un put in to save u carryin watter from down stair to fill the basin. no place for a lusty man like old richards. i m tu thickabout to go ferritin. thank ee muster corkran. 
the water squirt through the tap just inside the cupboard and have fill the basin the grateful richards waddle away. 
the boy sit round eye on their bed consider the possibility of this trove. two floor below them they could hear the hum of the angry house. for nothing be so still a a dormitory in mid afternoon of a midsummer term. 
it ha be paper over till now. mcturk examine the little door. if we d only know before. 
i vote we go down and explore. no one will come up this time o day. we needn t keep cave. 
they crawl in stalky lead draw the door behind them and on all four embark on a dark and dirty road full of plaster odd shaving and all the raffle that builder leave in the waste room of a house. the passage be perhaps three foot wide and except for the struggle light round the edge of the cupboard. there be one to each dormer. almost pitchy dark. 
here s macrea s house say stalky his eye at the crack of the third cupboard. i can see barnes s name on his trunk. don t make such a row beetle. we can get right to the end of the coll. come on. we re in king s house now i can see a bite of rattray s trunk. how these beastly board hurt one s knee. they hear his nail scrap on plaster. 
that s the ceiling below. look out. if we smash that the plaster ud fall down in the low dormitory say beetle. 
let s whisper mcturk. 
an be collar first thing. not much. why i can shove my hand ever so far up between these board. 
stalky thrust an arm to the elbow between the joist. 
no good stayin here. i vote we go back and talk it over. it s a crummy place. must say i m grateful to king for his water work. 
they crawl out brush one another clean slide the saloon pistol down a trouser leg and hurry forth to a deep and solitary devonshire lane in whose flank a boy might sometimes slay a young rabbit. they throw themselves down under the rank elder bush and begin to think aloud. 
you know say stalky at last sight at a distant sparrow we could hide our sally in there like anything. 
huh. beetle snort choke and gurgle. he have be silent since they leave the dormitory. do you ever read a book call the history of a house or something. i get it out of the library the other day. a french woman write it violet somebody. but it s translate you know. and it s very interestin. tell you how a house be build. 
well if you re in a sweat to find out that you can go down to the new cottage they re build for the coastguard. 
my hat. i will. he felt in his pocket. give me tuppence some one. 
rot. stay here and don t mess about in the sun. 
gi me tuppence. 
i say beetle you aren t stuffy about anything be you. say mcturk hand over the copper. his tone be serious for though stalky often and mcturk occasionally manoeuvre on his own account beetle have never be know to do so in all the history of the confederacy. 
no i m not. i m think. 
well we ll come too say stalky with a general s suspicion of his aide. 
don t want you. 
oh leave him alone. he s be take bad with a poem say mcturk. he ll go burble down to the pebbleridge and spit it all up in the study when he come back. 
then why do he want the tuppence turkey. he s gettin too beastly independent. hi. there s a bunny. no it ain t. it s a cat by jove. you plug first. 
twenty minute late a boy with a straw hat at the back of his head and his hand in his pocket be star at workman a they move about a half finish cottage. he produce some ferocious tobacco and be pass from the forecourt into the interior where he ask many question. 
well let s have your beastly epic say turkey a they burst into the study to find beetle deep in viollet le duc and some drawing. we ve have no end of a lark. 
epic. what epic. i ve be down to the coastguard. 
no epic. then we will slay you o beetle say stalky move to the attack. you ve get something up your sleeve. i know when you talk in that tone. 
your uncle beetle with an attempt to imitate stalky s war voice be a great man. 
oh no. he jolly well isn t anything of the kind. you deceive yourself beetle. scrag him turkey. 
a great man beetle gurgle from the floor. _you be futile look out for my tie. futile burblers. i be the great man. i gloat. ouch. hear me. 
beetle de ah stalky drop unreservedly on beetle s chest we love you an you re a poet. if i ever say you be a doggaroo i apologize. but you know a well a we do that you can t do anything by yourself without muck it. 
i ve get a notion. 
and you ll spoil the whole show if you don t tell your uncle stalky. cough it up ducky and we ll see what we can do. notion you fat impostor i know you have a notion when you go away. turkey say it be a poem. 
i ve find out how house be build. le me get up. the floor joist of one room be the ceiling joist of the room below. 
don t be so filthy technical. 
well the man tell me. the floor be lay on top of those joist those board on edge that we crawl over but the floor stop at a partition. well if you get behind a partition same a you do in the attic don t you see that you can shove anything you please under the floor between the floor board and the lath and plaster of the ceiling below. look here. i ve draw it. 
he produce a rude sketch sufficient to enlighten the ally. there be no part of the modern school curriculum that deal with architecture and none of them have yet reflect whether floor and ceiling be hollow or solid. outside his own immediate interest the boy be a ignorant a the savage he so admire. but he ha also the savage s resource. 
i see say stalky. i shove my hand there. an then. 
an then they ve be call u stinker you know. we might shove somethin under sulphur or something that stink pretty bad an stink em out. i know it can be do somehow. beetle s eye turn to stalky handle the diagram. 
stink. say stalky interrogatively. then his face grow luminous with delight. by gum. i ve get it. horrid stink. turkey. he leap at the irishman. this afternoon just after beetle go away. she s the very thing. 
come to my arm my beamish boy carol mcturk and they fell into each other s arm dance. oh frabjous day. calloo callay. she will. she will. 
hold on say beetle. i don t understand. 
dearr man. it shall though. oh artie my pure souled youth let u tell our darling reggie about pestiferous stinkadores. 
not until after call over. come on. 
i say say orrin stiffly a they fell into their place along the wall of the gymnasium. the house be goin to hold another meet. 
hold away then. stalky s mind be elsewhere. 
it s about you three this time. 
all right give em my love. here sir_ and he tear down the corridor. 
gambol like kid at play with bound and sidestarts with caper and curvet they lead the almost burst beetle to the rabbit lane and from under a pile of stone draw forth the new slay corpse of a cat. then do beetle see the inner mean of what have go before and lift up his voice in thanksgiving for that the world hold warrior so wise a stalky and mcturk. 
well nourish old lady ain t she. say stalky. how long d you suppose it ll take her to get a bite whiff in a confine space. 
bite whiff. what a coarse brute you be. say mcturk. can t a poor pussy cat get under king s dormitory floor to die without your pursuin her with your foul innuendo. 
what do she die under the floor for. say beetle look to the future. 
oh they win t worry about that when they find her say stalky. 
a cat may look at a king. mcturk roll down the bank at his own jest. pussy you don t know how useful you re goin to be to three pure souled high mind boy. 
they ll have to take up the floor for her same a they do in number nine when the rat croak. big medicine heap big medicine. phew. oh lord i wish i could stop laughin say beetle. 
stink. hi stink. clammy one. mcturk gasp a he regain his place. and the exquisite humor of it bring them slide down together in a tangle it s all for the honor of the house too. 
an they re holdin another meet on u stalky pant his knee in the ditch and his face in the long grass. well let s get the bullet out of her and hurry up. the sooner she s bed out the good. 
between them they do some grisly work with a penknife. between them. ask not who button her to his bosom. they take up the corpse and hasten back stalky arrange their plan of action at the full trot. 
the afternoon sun lie in broad patch on the bed rug saw three boy and an umbrella disappear into a dormitory wall. in five minute they emerge brush themselves all over wash their hand comb their hair and descend. 
be you sure you shove her far enough under. say mcturk suddenly. 
hang it man i shove her the full length of my arm and beetle s brolly. that must be about six foot. she s bung in the middle of king s big upper ten bedder. eligible central situation i call it. she ll stink out his chap and hartopp s and macrea s when she really begin to fume. i swear your uncle stalky be a great man. do you realize what a great man he be beetle. 
well i have the notion first hadn t i. only. 
you couldn t do it without your uncle stalky could you. 
they ve be call u stinker for a week now say mcturk. oh win t they catch it. 
stinker. yah. stink ah. ring down the corridor. 
and she s there say stalky a hand on either boy s shoulder. she be there gettin ready to surprise em. presently she ll begin to whisper to em in their dream. then she ll whiff. golly how she ll whiff. oblige me by thinkin of it for two minute. 
they go to their study in more or le of silence. there they begin to laugh laugh a only boy can. they laugh with their forehead on the table or on the floor. laugh at length curl over the back of chair or cling to a book shelf. laugh themselves limp. 
and in the middle of it orrin enter on behalf of the house. don t mind u orrin. sit down. you don t know how we respect and admire you. there s something about your pure high young forehead full of the dream of innocent boyhood that s no end fetchin. it be indeed. 
the house send me to give you this. he lay a fold sheet of paper on the table and retire with an awful front. 
it s the resolution. oh read it some one. i m too silly sick with laughin to see say beetle. stalky jerk it open with a precautionary sniff. phew. phew. listen. the house notice with pain and contempt the attitude of indiference how many f s in indifference beetle. 
two for choice. 
only one here adopt by the occupant of number five study in relation to the insult offer to mr. prout s house at the recent meet in number twelve form room and the house hereby pas a vote of censure on the say study. that s all. 
and she bleed all down my shirt too. say beetle. 
an i m catty all over say mcturk though i wash twice. 
an i nearly break beetle s brolly plantin her where she would blossom. 
the situation be beyond speech but not laughter. there be some attempt that night to demonstrate against the three in their dormitory. so they come forth. 
you see beetle begin suavely a he loosen his brace the trouble with you be that you re a set of unthinkin ass. you ve no more brain than spidgers. we ve tell you that heap of time haven t we. 
we ll give the three of you a dormitory lickin. you always jaw at u a if you be prefect cry one. 
oh no you win t say stalky because you know that if you do you d get the bad of it sooner or late. we aren t in any hurry. we can afford to wait for our little revenge. you ve make howlin ass of yourselves and just a soon a king get hold of your precious resolution to morrow you ll find that out. if you aren t sick an sorry by to morrow night i ll i ll eat my hat. 
but or ever the dinner bell ring the next day prout s be sadly aware of their error. king receive stray member of that house with an exaggerate attitude of fear. do they purpose to cause him to be dismiss from the college by unanimous resolution. what be their view concern the government of the school that he might hasten to give effect to them. he would not offend them for world. but he fear he sadly fear that his own house who do not pas resolution. but wash. might somewhat deride. 
king be a happy man and his house bask in the favor of his smile make that afternoon a long penance to the mislead prouts. and prout himself with a dull and lower visage try to think out the right and wrong of it all only plunge deep into bewilderment. why should his house be call stinker. truly it be a small thing but he have be train to believe that straw show which way the wind blow and that there be no smoke without fire. he approach king in common room with a sense of injustice but king be please to be full of airy persiflage that tide and brilliantly dance dialectical ring round prout. 
now say stalky at bedtime make pilgrimage through the dormitory before the prefect come by _now what have you get to say for yourselves. foster carton finch longbridge marlin brett. i hear you chap catchin it from king he make hay of you an all you could do be to wriggle an grin an say yes sir an no sir an o sir an please sir. you an your resolution. urh. 
oh shut up stalky. 
not a bite of it. you re a gaudy lot of resolutionists you be. you ve make a sweet mess of it. perhaps you ll have the decency to leave u alone next time. 
here the house grow angry and in many voice point out how this blunder would never have come to pas if number five study have help them from the first. 
but you chap be so beastly conceited an an you swagger into the meetin a if we be a lot of idiot growl orrin of the resolution. 
that s precisely what you be. that s what we ve be tryin to hammer into your thick head all this time say stalky. never mind we ll forgive you. cheer up. you can t help bein ass you know and the enemy s flank deftly turn stalky hop into bed. 
that night be the first of sorrow among the jubilant king s. by some accident of under floor draft the cat do not vex the dormitory beneath which she lay but the next one to the right. steal on the air rather a a pale blue sensation than a any poignant offense. but the mere adumbration of an odor be enough for the sensitive nose and clean tongue of youth. decency demand that we draw several carbolized sheet over what the dormitory say to mr. king and what mr. king reply. he be genuinely proud of his house and fastidious in all that concern their well be. he come. he sniff. he say thing. next morning a boy in that dormitory confide to his bosom friend a fag of macrea s that there be trouble in their midst which king would fain keep secret. 
but macrea s boy have also a bosom friend in prout s a shock head fag of malignant disposition who when he have worm out the secret tell tell it in a high pitch treble that ring along the corridor like a bat s squeak. 
an an they ve be call u stinker all this week. why harland minor say they simply can t sleep in his dormitory for the stink. come on. 
with one shout and with one cry prout s junior hurl themselves into the war and through the interval between first and second lesson some fifty twelve year old be embroil on the gravel outside king s window to a tune whose leit motif be the word stinker. 
hark to the minute gun at sea. say stalky. they be in their study collect book for second lesson latin with king. i think his azure brow be a bite cloudy at prayer. she be comin sister mary. she be. 
if they make such a row now what will they do when she really begin to look up an take notice. 
well no vulgar repartee beetle. all we want be to keep out of this row like gentleman. 
ti but a little fade flower. where s my horace. look here i don t understand what she mean by stinkin out rattray s dormitory first. we hole in under white s didn t we. ask mcturk with a wrinkle brow. 
skittish little thing. she s rompin about all over the place i suppose. 
my aunt. king ll be a cheerful customer at second lesson. i haven t prepare my horace one little bite either say beetle. come on. 
they be outside the form room door now. it be within five minute of the bell and king might arrive at any moment. 
turkey elbow into a cohort of scuffle fag cut out thornton tertius. he that have be harland s bosom friend. and bid him tell his tale. 
it be a simple one interrupt by tear. many of king s house tread already batter him for libel. 
oh it s nothing mcturk cry. he say that king s house stink. that s all. 
stale. stalky shout. we know that year ago only we didn t choose to run about shoutin stinker. we ve get some manner ir they haven t. catch a fag turkey and make sure of it. 
turkey s long arm close on a hurry and anxious ornament of the low second. 
oh mcturk please let me go. i don t stink i swear i don t. 
guilty conscience. cry beetle. who say you do. 
what d you make of it. stalky punt the small boy into beetle s arm. 
snf. snf. he doe though. i think it s leprosy or thrush. p rap it s both. take it away. 
indeed master beetle king generally come to the house door for a minute or two a the bell ring we be vastly indebted to you for your diagnosis which seem to reflect almost a much credit on the natural unwholesomeness of your mind a it doe upon your pitiful ignorance of the disease of which you discourse so glibly. we will however test your knowledge in other direction. 
that be a merry lesson but in his haste to scarify beetle king clean neglect to give him an imposition and since at the same time he supply him with many priceless adjective for late use beetle be well content and apply himself most seriously throughout third lesson. algebra with little hartopp. to compose a poem entitle the lazar house. 
after dinner king take his house to bathe in the sea off the pebbleridge. it be an old promise. but he wish he could have evade it for all prout s line up by the five court and cheer with intention. in his absence not le than half the school invade the infect dormitory to draw their own conclusion. the cat have gain in the last twelve hour but a battlefield of the fifth day could not have be so flamboyant a the spy report. 
my word she be doin herself proud say stalky. do you ever smell anything like it. ah an she isn t under white s dormitory at all yet. 
but she will be. give her time say beetle. she ll twine like a giddy honeysuckle. what howlin lazarites they be. no house be justify in makin itself a stench in the nostril of decent. 
high mind pure souled boy. do you burn with remorse and regret. say mcturk a they hasten to meet the house come up from the sea. king have desert it so speech be unfettered. round it front play a crowd of skirmisher all house mix fly reform shriek insult. on it torture flank march the hoplites senior hurl jest one after another simple and primitive jest of the stone age. to these the three add themselves dispassionately with an air of aloofness almost sadly. 
and they look all right too say stalky. it can t be rattray can it. rattray. 
no answer. 
rattray dear. he seem stuffy about something or other. look here old man we don t bear any malice about your send that soap to u last week do we. be cheerful rat. you can live this down all right. i dare say it s only a few fag. your house be so beastly slack though. 
you aren t go back to the house be you. say mcturk. the victim desire nothing good. you ve simply no conception of the reek up there. of course frowzin a you do you wouldn t notice it. but after this nice wash and the clean fresh air even you d be upset. much good camp on the burrow. we ll get you some straw. shall we. the house hurry in to the tune of john brown s body sing by love schoolmate and barricade themselves in their form room. straightway stalky chalk a large cross with lord have mercy upon u on the door and leave king to find it. 
the wind shift that night and waft a carrion reek into macrea s dormitory. so that boy in nightgown pound on the lock door between the house entreat king s to wash. number five study go to second lesson with not more than half a pound of camphor apiece in their clothe. and king too wary to ask for explanation gibber a while and hurl them forth. so beetle finish yet another poem at peace in the study. 
they re usin carbolic now. malpas tell me say stalky. king think it s the drain. 
she ll need a lot o carbolic say mcturk. no harm tryin i suppose. it keep king out of mischief. 
i swear i think he be goin to kill me when i sniff just now. he didn t mind burton major sniffin at me the other day though. he never stop alexander howlin stinker. into our form room before before we doctor em. he just grin say stalky. what be he froth over you for beetle. 
aha. that be my subtle jape. i have him on toast. you know he always jaw about the learn lipsius. 
who at the age of four that chap. say mcturk. 
yes. whenever he hear i ve write a poem. well just a i be sittin down i whisper how be our learn lepsius. to burton major. old butt grin like an owl. he didn t know what i be drivin at. but king jolly well do. that be really why he heave u out. ain t you grateful. now shut up. i m goin to write the ballad of the learn lipsius. 
keep clear of anything coarse then say stalky. i shouldn t like to be coarse on this happy occasion. 
not for wo orlds. what rhyme to stench someone. 
in common room at lunch king discourse acridly to prout of boy with prurient mind who pervert their few and baleful talent to sap discipline and corrupt their equal to deal in foul imagery and destroy reverence. 
but you didn t seem to consider this when your house call u ah stinker. if you hadn t assure me that you never interfere with another man s house i should almost believe that it be a few casual remark of yours that start all this nonsense. 
prout have endure much for king always take his temper to meal. 
you speak to beetle yourself didn t you. something about not bath and be a water funk. the school chaplain put in. i be score in the pavilion that day. 
i may have jestingly. i really don t pretend to remember every remark i let fall among small boy. and full well i know the beetle ha no feeling to be hurt. 
may be. but he or they it come to to same thing have the fiend s own knack of discover a man s weak place. i confess i rather go out of my way to conciliate number five study. it may be soft but so far i believe i be the only man here whom they haven t madden by their well attention. 
that be all beside the point. i flat myself i can deal with them alone a occasion arise. but if they feel themselves morally support by those who should wield an absolute and open hand justice then i say that my lot be indeed a hard one. of all thing i detest i admit that anything verge on disloyalty among ourselves be the first. 
the common room look at one another out of the corner of their eye and prout blush. 
i deny it absolutely he say. er in fact i own that i personally object to all three of them. it be not fair therefore to. 
how long do you propose to allow it. say king. 
but surely say macrea desert his usual ally the blame if there be any rest with you king. you can t hold them responsible for the you prefer the good old anglo saxon i believe stink in your house. my boy be complain of it now. 
what can you expect. you know what boy be. naturally they take advantage of what to them be a heaven send opportunity say little hartopp. what be the trouble in your dormitory king. 
mr. king explain that a he have make it the one rule of his life never to interfere with another man s house so he expect not to be too patently interfere with. they might be interest to learn here the chaplain heave a weary sigh that he have take all step that in his poor judgment would meet the need of the case. nay further he have himself expend with no think of reimbursement sum the amount of which he would not specify on disinfectant. this he have do because he know by bitter by most bitter experience that the management of the college be slack dilatory and inefficient. he might even add almost a slack a the administration of certain house which now think fit to sit in judgment on his action. with a short summary of his scholastic career and a precis of his qualification include his degree he withdraw slam the door. 
heigho. say the chaplain. ours be a dwarf life a belittle life my brother. god help all schoolmaster. they need it. 
i don t like the boy i own prout dig viciously with his fork into the table cloth and i don t pretend to be a strong man a you know. but i confess i can t see any reason why i should take step against stalky and the others because king happen to be annoy by by. 
fall into the pit he ha digged say little hartopp. certainly not prout. no one accuse you of set one house against another through sheer idleness. 
a belittle life a belittle life. the chaplain rise. i go to correct french exercise. by dinner king will have score off some unlucky child of thirteen. he will repeat to u every word of his brilliant repartee and all will be well. 
but about those three. be they so prurient mind. 
nonsense say little hartopp. if you think for a minute prout you would see that the precocious flow of fetid imagery that king complain of be borrow wholesale from king. he nurse the pinion that impel the steel. naturally he doe not approve. come into the smoke room for a minute. it isn t fair to listen to boy. but they should be now rub it into king s house outside. little thing please little mind. 
the dingy den off the common room be never use for anything except gown. it window be grind glass. one could not see out of it but one could hear almost every word on the gravel outside. a light and wary footstep come up from number five. 
rattray. in a subdue voice rattray s study front that way. d you know if mr. king s anywhere about. i ve get a mcturk discreetly leave the end of the sentence open. 
no he s go out say rattray unguardedly. 
ah. the learn lipsius be air himself be he. his royal highness ha go to fumigate. mcturk climb on the railing where he hold forth like the never weary rook. 
now in all the coll. there be no stink like the stink of king s house for it stink vehemently and none know what to make of it. save king. and he wash the fag privatim et seriatim. in the fishpools of hesbon wash he them with an apron about his loin. 
shut up you mad irishman. there be the sound of a golf ball spurt up gravel. 
it s no good get wrathy rattray. we ve come to jape with you. come on beetle. they re all at home. you can wind em. 
where s the pomposo stinkadore. tisn t safe for a pure souled high mind boy to be see round his house these day. go out ha he. never mind. i ll do the best i can rattray. i m in loco parentis just now. 
one for you prout whisper macrea for this be mr. prout s pet phrase. 
i have a few word to impart to you my young friend. we will discourse together a while. 
here the listen prout sputter. beetle in a strain voice have choose a favorite gambit of king s. 
i repeat master rattray we will confer and the matter of our discourse shall not be stink for that be a loathsome and obscene word. we will with your good leave grant i trust master rattray grant i trust study this this scabrous upheaval of latent demoralization. what impress me most be not so much the blatant indecency with which you swagger abroad under your load of putrescence. you must imagine this discourse punctuate with golf ball but old rattray be ever a bad shoot. a the cynical immorality with which you revel in your abhorrent aroma. far be it from me to interfere with another s house. 
good lord. say prout but this be king. 
line for line letter for letter. listen. say little hartopp. 
but to say that you stink a certain lewd fellow of the base sort aver be to say nothing le than nothing. in the absence of your beloved house master for whom no one ha a high regard than myself i will if you will allow me explain the grossness the unparalleled enormity the appal fetor of the stench. i believe in the good old anglo saxon word. stench sir with which you have see fit to infect your house. oh bother. i ve forget the rest but it be very beautiful. aren t you grateful to u for laborin with you this way rattray. lot of chap ud never have take the trouble but we re grateful rattray. 
yes we re horrid grateful grunt mcturk. we don t forget that soap. we re polite. why ain t you polite rat. 
hallo. stalky canter up his cap over one eye. exhortin the whiffer eh. i m afraid they re too far go to repent. rattray. white. perowne. malpas. no answer. this be distressin. this be truly distressin. bring out your dead you glandered leper. 
you think yourself funny don t you. say rattray sting from his dignity by this last. it s only a rat or something under the floor. we re go to have it up to morrow. 
don t try to shuffle it off on a poor dumb animal and dead too. i loathe prevarication. pon my soul rattray. 
hold on. the hartoffles never say pon my soul in all his little life say beetle critically. 
ah. say prout to little hartopp. 
upon my word sir upon my word sir i expect good thing of you rattray. why can you not own up to your misdeed like a man. have i ever show any lack of confidence in you. 
it s not brutality murmur little hartopp a though answer a question no one have ask. it s boy. only boy. 
and this be the house stalky change from a peck flutter voice to tragic earnestness. this be the the open cesspit that dare to call u stinker. and now and now it try to shelter itself behind a dead rat. you annoy me rattray. you disgust me. you irritate me unspeakably. thank heaven i be a man of equable temper. 
this be to your address macrea say prout. 
i fear so i fear so. 
or i should scarcely be able to contain myself before your mock visage. 
_cave. in an undertone. beetle have spy king sail down the corridor. 
and what may you be do here my little friend. the house master begin. i have a fleet notion correct me if i be wrong. the listener with one accord choke. that if i find you outside my house i should visit you with dire pain and penalty. 
we be just goin for a walk sir say beetle. 
and you stop to speak to rattray en route. 
yes sir. we ve be throw golf ball say rattray come out of the study. 
old rat be more of a diplomat than i think. so far he be strictly within the truth say little hartopp. observe the ethic of it prout. 
oh you be sport with them be you. i must say i do not envy you your choice of associate. i fancy they might have be engage in some of the prurient discourse with which they have be so disgustingly free of late. i should strongly advise you to direct your step most carefully in the future. pick up those golf ball. he pass on. 
next day richards who have be a carpenter in the navy and to whom odd job be confide be order to take up a dormitory floor. for mr. king hold that something must have die there. 
we need not neglect all our work for a trumpery incident of this nature. though i be quite aware that little thing please little mind. yes i have decree the board to be take up after lunch under richards s auspex. i have no doubt it will be vastly interest to a certain type of so call intellect. but any boy of my house or another s find on the dormitory stair will ipso facto render himself liable to three hundred line. 
the boy do not collect on the stair but most of them wait outside king s. richards have be bind to cry the news from the attic window and if possible to exhibit the corpse. 
ti a cat a dead cat. richards s face show purple at the window. he have be in the chamber of death and on his knee for some time. 
cat be blow. cry mcturk. it s a dead fag leave over from last term. three cheer for king s dead fag. 
they cheer lustily. 
show it show it. let s have a squint at it. yell the junior. give her to the bug hunter. this be the natural history society. the cat look at the king and die of it. hoosh. yai. yaow. maiow. ftzz. be some of the cry that follow. 
again richards appear. 
she ve be he check himself suddenly dead a long taime. 
the school roar. 
well come on out for a walk say stalky in a well choose pause. it s all very disgustin and i do hope the lazar house win t do it again. 
do what. a king s boy cry furiously. 
kill a poor innocent cat every time you want to get off wash. it s awfully hard to distinguish between you a it be. i prefer the cat i must say. she isn t quite so whiff. what be you goin to do beetle. 
_je vais gloater. je vais gloater tout le bless afternoon. jamais j ai gloate comme je gloaterai aujourd hui. nous bunkerons aux bunker. 
and it seem good to them so to do. 
down in the basement where the gas flicker and the boot stand in rack richards amid his black brush hold forth to oke of the common room gumbly of the din hall and fair lena of the laundry. 
yi. her be in a shockin staate an condition. her nigh make me sick i tal ee. but i rowted un out and i rowted un out an i make all shipshape though her smelt like to bilge. 
her die mousin i reckon poor thing say lena. 
then her mouse different to any make cat o god s world lena. i up with the top board an she be lie on her back an i turn un ovver with the brume handle an twas her back be all cover with the plaster from twixt the lathin. yi i tal ee. an under her head there lay like so s to say a little pillow o plaster druv up in front of her by raison of her slidin along on her back. no cat niver go mousin on her back lena. some one have shove her along right underneath so far a they could shove un. cat don t make theyselves pillow for to die on. shove along she be when she be settin for to be cold laike. 
oh yeou m too clever to live fatty. yeou go get wed an teach some sense say lena the affiance of gumbly. 
larn a little fore iv some maiden be bear. sarved in the queen s navy i have where yeou m teach to use your eye. yeou go tend your own business lena. 
do ee mean what you m be tellin u. say oke. 
ask me no question i ll give ee no lie. bullet hole clane thru from side to side an tu heart rib break like withy. i seed un when i turn un ovver. they re clever oh they m clever but they m not too clever for old richards. twas on the bear tip o my tongue to tell tu but. he say u niver wash he do. let his dom boy call u stinker he do. sarve un dom well raight i say. 
richards spat on a fresh boot and fell to his work chuckle. 
the impressionist. 
they have drop into the chaplain s study for a saturday night smoke all four house master and the three briar and the one cigar reek in amity prove the rev. john gillett s good generalship. since the discovery of the cat king have be too ready to see affront where none be mean and the reverend john buff state and general confidant have work for a week to bring about a good understand. he be fat clean shave except for a big mustache of an imperturbable good temper and those who love him least say a guileful jesuit. he smile benignantly upon his handiwork four sorely try men talk without very much malice. 
now remember he say when the conversation turn that way i impute nothing. but every time that any one ha take direct step against number five study the issue ha be more or le humiliate to the taker. 
i can t admit that. i pulverize the egregious beetle daily for his soul s good. and the others with him say king. 
well take your own case king and go back a couple of year. do you remember when prout and you be on their track for hutting and trespass wasn t it. have you forget colonel dabney. 
the others laugh. king do not care to be remind of his career a a poacher. 
that be one instance. again when you have room below them i always say that that be enter the lion s den you turn them out. 
for make disgust noise. surely gillett you don t excuse. 
all i say be that you turn them out. that same even your study be wreck. 
by rabbit egg most beastly drink from the road say king. what ha that. 
the reverend john go on. 
lastly they conceive that aspersion be cast upon their personal cleanliness a most delicate matter with all boy. ve ry good. observe how in each case the punishment fit the crime. a week after your house call them stinker king your house be not to put too fine a point on it stink out by a dead cat who choose to die in the one spot where she can annoy you most. again the long arm of coincidence. summa. you accuse them of trespass. through some absurd chain of circumstance they may or may not be at the other end of it you and prout be make to appear a trespasser. you evict them. for a time your study be make untenable. i have draw the parallel in the last case. well. 
she be under the centre of white s dormitory say king. there be double floor board there to deaden noise. no boy even in my own house could possibly have pry up the board without leave some trace and rabbit egg be phenomenally drink that other night. 
they be singularly favor by fortune. that be all i ever say. personally i like them immensely and i believe i have a little of their confidence. i confess i like be call padre. they be at peace with me. consequently i be not treat to bogus confession of theft. 
you mean mason s case. say prout heavily. that always strike me a peculiarly scandalous. i think the head should have take up the matter more thoroughly. mason may be misguide but at least he be thoroughly sincere and mean well. 
i confess i cannot agree with you prout say the reverend john. he jump at some silly tale of theft on their part. accept another boy s evidence without so far a i can see any inquiry. and frankly i think he deserve all he get. 
they deliberately outrage mason s best feeling say prout. a word to me on their part would have save the whole thing. but they prefer to lure him on. to play on his ignorance of their character. 
that may be say king but i don t like mason. i dislike him for the very reason that prout advance to his credit. he mean well. 
our criminal tradition be not theft among ourselves at least say little hartopp. 
for the head of a house that raid seven head of cattle from the innocent pot walloper of northam isn t that rather a sweep statement. say macrae. 
precisely so say hartopp unabashed. that with gate lift and a little poach and hawk hunt on the cliff be our salvation. 
it doe u far more harm a a school prout begin. 
than any hush up scandal could. quite so. our reputation among the farmer be most unsavory. but i would much sooner deal with any amount of ingenious crime of that nature than some other offense. 
they may be all right but they be unboylike abnormal and in my opinion unsound prout insist. the moral effect of their performance must pave the way for great harm. it make me doubtful how to deal with them. i might separate them. 
you might of course. but they have go up the school together for six year. i shouldn t care to do it say macrae. 
they use the editorial we say king irrelevantly. it annoy me. where s your prose corkran. well sir we haven t quite do it yet. we ll bring it in a minute and so on. and the same with the others. 
there s great virtue in that we say little hartopp. you know i take them for trig. mcturk may have some conception of the mean of it. but beetle be a the brute that perish about sine and cosine. he copy serenely from stalky who positively rejoice in mathematics. 
why don t you stop it. say prout. 
it right itself at the exam. then beetle show up blank sheet and trust to his english to save him from a fall. i fancy he spend most of his time with me in write verse. 
i wish to heaven he would transfer a little of his energy in that direction to elegiaes. king jerk himself upright. he be with the single exception of stalky the very vile manufacturer of barbarous hexameter that i have ever deal with. 
the work be combine in that study say the chaplain. stalky doe the mathematics mcturk the latin and beetle attend to their english and french. at least when he be in the sick house last month. 
malinger prout interject. 
quite possibly. i find a very distinct fall off in their roman d un jeune homme pauvre translation. 
i think it be profoundly immoral say prout. i ve always be oppose to the study system. 
it would be hard to find any study where the boy don t help each other. but in number five the thing ha probably be reduce to a system say little hartopp. they have a system in most thing. 
they confess a much say the reverend john. i ve see mcturk be hound up the stair to elegise the elegy in a churchyard while beetle and stalky go to punt about. 
it amount to systematic crib say prout his voice grow deep and deep. 
no such thing little hartopp return. you can t teach a cow the violin. 
in intention it be crib. 
but we speak under the seal of the confessional didn t we. say the reverend john. 
you say you ve hear them arrange their work in this way gillett prout persist. 
good heaven. don t make me queen s evidence my dear fellow. hartopp be equally incriminate. if they ever find out that i have sneak our relation would suffer and i value them. 
i think your attitude in this matter be weak say prout look round for support. it would be really good to break up the study for a while wouldn t it. 
oh break it up by all mean say macrae. we shall see then if gillett s theory hold water. 
be wise prout. leave them alone or calamity will overtake you. and what be much more important they will be annoy with me. i be too fat ala. to be worry by bad boy. where be you go. 
nonsense. they would not dare but i be go to think this out say prout. it need think. in intention they crib and i must think out my duty. 
he s perfectly capable of put the boy on their honor. it s i that be a fool. the reverend john look round remorsefully. never again will i forget that a master be not a man. mark my word say the reverend john. there will be trouble. 
but by the yellow tiber be tumult and affright. 
out of the blue sky. they be still rejoice over the cat war. mr. prout have drop into number five read them a lecture on the enormity of crib and bid them return to the form room on monday. they have rag solo and chorus all through the peaceful sabbath for their sin be more or le the daily practice of all the study. 
what s the good of curse. say stalky at last. we re all in the same boat. we ve get to go back and consort with the house. a locker in the form room and a seat at prep. in number twelve. he look regretfully round the cozy study which mcturk their leader in matter of art have decorate with a dado a stencil and cretonne hanging. 
yes. heffy lurchin into the form room like a frowzy old retriever to see if we aren t up to something. you know he never leaf his house alone these day say mcturk. oh it will be giddy. 
why aren t you down watchin cricket. i like a robust healthy boy. you mustn t frowst in a form room. why don t you take an interest in your house. yah. quote beetle. 
yes why don t we. let s. we ll take an interest in the house. we ll take no end of interest in the house. he hasn t have u in the form room for a year. we ve learn a lot since then. oh we ll make it a be autiful house before we ve do. member that chap in eric or st. winifred s belial somebody. i m goin to be belial say stalky with an ensnare grin. 
right o say beetle and i ll be mammon. i ll lend money at usury that s what they do at all school accordin to the b. o. p. penny a week on a shillin. that ll startle heffy s weak intellect. you can be lucifer turkey. 
what have i get to do. mcturk also smile. 
head conspiracy and cabal and boycott. go in for that stealthy intrigue that heffy be always talkin about. come on. 
the house receive them on their fall with the mixture of jest and sympathy always extend to boy turn out of their study. the know aloofness of the three make them more interest. 
quite like old time ain t it. stalky select a locker and fling in his book. we ve come to sport with you my young friend for a while because our beloved house master ha heave u out of our diggin s. 
serve you jolly well right say orrin you cribbers. 
this will never do say stalky. we can t maintain our giddy prestige orrin de ah if you make these remark. 
they wrap themselves lovingly about the boy thrust him to the open window and draw down the sash to the nape of his neck. with an equal swiftness they tie his thumb together behind his back with a piece of twine and then because he kick furiously remove his shoe. there mr. prout happen to find him a few minute late guillotine and helpless surround by a convulse crowd who would not assist. 
stalky in an upper form room have gather himself ally against vengeance. orrin presently tear up at the head of a board party and the form room grow one fog of dust through which boy wrestle stamp shout and yell. a desk be carry away in the tumult a knot of warrior reel into and split a door panel a window be break and a gas jet fell. under cover of the confusion the three escape to the corridor whence they call in and send up passer by to the fray. 
rescue king. king. king. number twelve form room. rescue prouts prouts. rescue macraes. rescue hartopps. 
the junior hurry out like bee aswarm ask no question clatter up the staircase and add themselves to the embroilment. 
not bad for the first even s work say stalky rearrange his collar. i fancy prout ll be somewhat annoy. we d good establish an alibi. so they sit on mr. king s railing till prep. 
you see quoth stalky a they stroll up to prep. with the ignoble herd if you get the house well mix up an scufflin it s even bettin that some as will start a real row. hullo orrin you look rather metagrobolized. 
it be all your fault you beast. you start it. we ve get two hundred line apiece and heffy s lookin for you. just see what that swine malpas do to my eye. 
i like your say we start it. who call u cribbers. can t your infant mind connect cause and effect yet. some day you ll find out that it don t pay to jest with number five. 
where s that shillin you owe me. say beetle suddenly. 
stalky could not see prout behind him but return the lead without a quaver. i only owe you ninepence you old usurer. 
you ve forget the interest say mcturk. a halfpenny a week per bob be beetle s charge. you must be beastly rich beetle. 
well beetle lend me sixpence. stalky come to a full stop and make a to work it out on his finger. sixpence on the nineteenth didn t he. 
yes. but you ve forget you pay no interest on the other bob the one i lend you before. 
but you take my watch a security. the game be develop itself almost automatically. 
never mind. pay me my interest or i ll charge you interest on interest. remember i ve get your note of hand. shout beetle. 
you be a cold blood jew stalky groan. 
hush. say mcturk very loudly indeed and start a prout come upon them. 
i didn t see you in that disgraceful affair in the form room just now say he. 
what sir. we re just come up from mr. king s say stalky. please sir what be i to do about prep. they ve break the desk you tell me to sit at and the form s just swim with ink. 
find another seat find another seat. d you expect me to dry nurse you. i wish to know whether you be in the habit of advance money to your associate beetle. 
no sir. not a a general rule sir. 
it be a most reprehensible habit. i think that my house at least would be free from it. even with my opinion of you i hardly think it be one of your vice. 
there s no harm in lend money sir be there. 
i be not go to bandy word with you on your notion of morality. how much have you lend corkran. 
i i don t quite know say beetle. it be difficult to improvise a go concern on the spur of the minute. 
you seem certain enough just now. 
i think it s two and fourpence say mcturk with a glance of cold scorn at beetle. in the hopelessly involve finance of the study there be just that sum to which both mcturk and beetle lay claim a their share in the pledge of stalky s second best sunday trouser. but stalky have maintain for two term that the money be his commission for effect the pawn. and have of course spend it on a study brew. 
understand this then. you be not to continue your operation a a money lender. two and fourpence you say corkran. 
stalky have say nothing and continue so to do. 
your influence for evil be quite strong enough without buy a hold over your companion. he felt in his pocket and. oh joy. produce a florin and fourpence. bring me what you call corkran s note of hand and be thankful that i do not carry the matter any further. the money be stop from your pocket money corkran. the receipt to my study at once. 
little they care. two and fourpence in a lump be worth six weekly sixpence any hungry day of the week. 
but what the dooce be a note of hand. say beetle. i only read about it in a book. 
now you ve jolly well get to make one say stalky. 
yes but our ink don t turn black till next day. s pose he ll spot that. 
not him. he s too worry say mcturk. sign your name on a bite of impot paper stalky and write i o u two and fourpence. aren t you grateful to me for get that out of prout. stalky d never have pay. why you as. 
mechanically beetle have hand over the money to stalky a treasurer of the study. the custom of year be not lightly break. in return for the document prout expound to beetle the enormity of money lend which like everything except compulsory cricket corrupt house and destroy good feel among boy make youth cold and calculate and open the door to all evil. finally do beetle know of any other case. if so it be his duty a proof of repentance to let his house master know. no name need be mention. 
beetle do not know at least he be not quite sure sir. how could he give evidence against his friend. the house might of course here he feign an anguish delicacy be full of it. he be not in a position to say. he have not meet with any open competition in his trade. but if mr. prout consider it be a matter that affect the honor of the house. mr. prout do consider it precisely that. perhaps the house prefect would be good. 
he spin it out till half way through prep. 
and say the amateur shylock return to the form room and drop at stalky s side if he don t think the house be putrid with it i m several dutch men that s all. i ve be to mr. prout s study sir. this to the prep. master. he say i could sit where i like sir. oh he be just tricklin with emotion. yes sir i m only askin corkran to let me have a dip in his ink. 
after prayer on the road to the dormitory harrison and craye senior house prefect zealous in their office waylay them with great anger. what have you be do to heffy this time beetle. he s be jaw u all the even. 
what ha his serene transparency be vexin you for. say mcturk. 
about beetle lendin money to stalky begin harrison. and then beetle go and tell him that there be any amount of money lendin in the house. 
no you don t say beetle sit on a boot basket. that s just what i didn t tell him. i speak the giddy truth. he ask me if there be much of it in the house. and i say i didn t know. 
he think you re a set of filthy shylock say mcturk. it s just a well for you he don t think you re burglar. you know he never get a notion out of his conscientious old head. 
well meanin man. do it all for the best. stalky curl gracefully round the stair rail. head in a drain pipe. full confession in the leave boot. bad for the honor of the house very. 
shut up say harrison. you chap always behave a if you be jawin u when we come to jaw you. 
you re a lot too cheeky say craye. 
i don t quite see where the cheek come in except on your part in interferin with a private matter between me an beetle after it ha be settle by prout. stalky wink cheerfully at the others. 
that s the bad of clever little swot say mcturk address the gas. they get make prefect before they have any tact and then they annoy chap who could really help em to look after the honor of the house. 
we win t trouble you to do that. say craye hotly. 
then what be you badgerin u for. say beetle. on your own show you ve be so beastly slack look after the house that prout belief it s a nest of money lender. i ve tell him that i ve lend money to stalky and no one else. i don t know whether he belief me but that finish my case. the rest be your business. 
now we find out stalky s voice rise that there be apparently an organize conspiracy throughout the house. for aught we know the fag may be lendin and borrowin far beyond their mean. we aren t responsible for it. we re only the rank and file. 
be you surprise we don t wish to associate with the house. say mcturk with dignity. we ve keep ourselves to ourselves in our study till we be turn out and now we find ourselves let in for for this sort of thing. it s simply disgraceful. 
then you hector and bullyrag u on the stair say stalky about matter that be your business entirely. you know we aren t prefect. 
you threaten u with a prefect s lickin just now say beetle boldly invent a he saw the bewilderment in the face of the enemy. and if you expect you ll gain anything from u by your way of approachin u you re jolly well mistake. that s all. good night. 
they clatter upstairs injure virtue on every inch of their back. 
but but what the dickens have we do. say harrison amazedly to craye. 
i don t know. only it always happen that way when one ha anything to do with them. they re so beastly plausible. 
and mr. prout call the good boy into his study anew and succeed in sink both his and their innocent mind ten fathom deep in blindfold bedazement. he speak of step and measure of tone and loyalty in the house and to the house and urge them to take up the matter tactfully. 
so they demand of beetle whether he have any connection with any other establishment. beetle promptly go to his house master and wish to know by what right harrison and craye have reopen a matter already settle between him and his house master. in injure innocence no boy excel beetle. 
then it occur to prout that he might have be unfair to the culprit who have not strive to deny or palliate his offense. he send for harrison and craye reprehend them very gently for the tone they have adopt to a repentant sinner and when they return to their study they use the language of despair. they then make headlong inquisition through the house drive the fag to the edge of hysteric and unearth with tremendous pomp and parade the natural and inevitable system of small loan that prevail among small boy. 
you see harrison thornton minor lend me a penny last saturday because i be fin for break the window. and i spend it at keyte s. i didn t know there be any harm in it. and wray major borrow twopence from me when my uncle send me a post office order i cash it at keyte s for five bob. but he ll pay me back before the holiday. we didn t know there be anything wrong in it. 
they wad through hour of this kind of thing but find no usury or anything approach to beetle s gorgeous scale of interest. the senior for the school have no tradition of deference to prefect outside compulsory game tell them succinctly to go about their business. they would not give evidence on any term. harrison be one idiot and craye be another. but the great of all they say be their house master. 
when a house be thoroughly upset however good it conscience it break into knot and coterie small gathering in the twilight box room committee and group in the corridor. and when from group to group with an immense affectation of secrecy three wicked boy steal cry _cave _ when there be no need of caution and whisper don t tell. on the heel of trumpery confidence that instant invent a very fine air of plot and intrigue can be weave round such a house. 
at the end of a few day it dawn on prout that he move in an atmosphere of perpetual ambush. mystery hedge him on all side warning run before his heavy foot and countersign be mutter behind his attentive back. mcturk and stalky invent many absurd and idle phrase catch word that sweep through the house a fire through stubble. it be a rare jest and the only practical outcome of the usury commission that one boy should say to a friend with awful gravity do you think there s much of it go on in the house. the other would reply well one can t be too careful you know. the effect on a house master of humane conscience and good intent may be imagine. again a man who ha sincerely devote himself to gain the esteem of his charge doe not like to hear himself describe even at a distance a popularity prout by a dark and scowl celt with a fluent tongue. a rumor that story unusual story be tell in the form room between the light by a boy who doe not command his confidence agitate such a man. and even elaborate and tender politeness for the courtesy wise grow men offer to a bewilder child be the courtesy that stalky wrap round prout restore not his peace of mind. 
the tone of the house seem change change for the bad say prout to harrison and craye. have you notice it. i don t for an instant impute. 
he never impute anything. but on the other hand he never do anything else and with the best intention in the world he have reduce the house prefect to a state a nearly border on nervous irritation a healthy boy can know. bad of all they begin at time to wonder whether stalky & co. have not some truth in their often repeat assertion that prout be a gloomy as. 
a you know i be not the kind of man who put himself out for every little thing he hear. i believe in let the house work out their own salvation with a light guide hand on the rein of course. but there be a perceptible lack of reverence a low tone in matter that touch the honor of the house a sort of hardness. 
oh prout he be a nobleman a nobleman a nobleman. our heffy be a nobleman he doe an awful lot because his popularity oh pop u pop u larity his giddy popularity would suffer do he not. 
the study door stand ajar. and the song bear by twenty clear voice come faint from a form room. the fag rather like the tune. the word be beetle s. 
that s a thing no sensible man object to say prout with a lop side smile. but you know straw show which way the wind blow. can you trace it to any direct influence. i be speak to you now a head of the house. 
there isn t the least doubt of it say harrison angrily. i know what you mean sir. it all begin when number five study come to the form room. there s no use blinkin it craye. you know that too. 
they make thing rather difficult for u sometimes say craye. it s more their manner than anything else that harrison mean. 
do they hamper you in the discharge of your duty then. 
well no sir. they only look on and grin and turn up their nose generally. 
ah say prout sympathetically. 
i think sir say craye plunge into the business boldly it would be a great deal good if they wear send back to their study good for the house. they be rather old to be knock about the form room. 
they be young than orrin or flint and a dozen others that i can think of. 
yes sir. but that s different somehow. they re rather influential. they have a knack of upsettin thing in a quiet way that one can t take hold of. at least if one doe. 
and you think they would be good in their own study again. 
emphatically harrison and craye be of that opinion. a harrison say to craye afterwards they ve weaken our authority. they re too big to lick. they ve make an exhibition of u over this usury business and we re a laugh stock to the rest of the school. i m go up. for sandhurst understand. next term. they ve manage to knock me out of half my work already with their their lunacy. if they go back to their study we may have a little peace. 
hullo harrison. mcturk amble round the corner with a rove eye on all possible horizon. bearin up old man. that s right. live it down. live it down. 
what d you mean. 
you look a little pensive say mcturk. exhaustin job superintendin the honor of the house ain t it. by the way how be you off for mare nest. 
look here say harrison hop for instant reward. we ve recommend prout to let you go back to your study. 
the dooce you have. and who under the sun be you to interfere between u and our house master. upon my sam you two try u very hard you do indeed. of course we don t know how far you abuse your position to prejudice u with mr. prout. but when you deliberately stop me to tell me you ve be makin arrangement behind our back in secret with prout i i don t know really what we ought to do. 
that s beastly unfair. cry craye. 
it be. mcturk have adopt a ghastly solemnity that sit well on his long lean face. hang it all. a prefect s one thing and an usher s another. but you seem to combine em. you recommend this you recommend that. you say how and when we go back to our study. 
but but we think you d like it turkey. we do indeed. you know you ll be ever so much more comfortable there. harrison s voice be almost tearful. 
mcturk turn away a though to hide his emotion. 
they re break. he hunt up stalky and beetle in a box room. they re sick. they ve be beggin heffy to let u go back to number five. poor devil. poor little devil. 
it s the olive branch be stalky s comment. it s the giddy white flag by gum. come to think of it we have metagrobolized em. 
just after tea that day mr. prout send for them to say that if they choose to ruin their future by neglect their work it be entirely their own affair. he wish them however to understand that their presence in the form room could not be tolerate one hour long. he personally do not care to think of the time he must spend in eliminate the trace of their evil influence. how far beetle have pander to the base side of youthful imagination he would ascertain late. and beetle might be sure that if mr. prout come across any soul corrupt consequence. 
consequence of what sir. say beetle genuinely bewilder this time. and mcturk quietly kick him on the ankle for be fetch by prout. beetle the house master continue know very well what be intend. evil and brief have be their career under his eye. and a one stand in loco parentis to their yet uncontaminated associate he be bind to take his precaution. the return of the study key close the sermon. 
but what be the base side of imagination business. say beetle on the stair. 
i never know such an as a you be for justifyin yourself say mcturk. i hope i jolly well skin your ankle. why do you let yourself be draw by everybody. 
draw be blow. i must have tickle him up in some way i didn t know about. if i d have a notion of that before of course i could have rub it in good. it s too late now. what a pity. base side. what be he drivin at. 
never mind say stalky. i know we could make it a happy little house. i say so remember but i swear i didn t think we d do it so soon. 
no say prout most firmly in common room. i maintain that gillett be wrong. true i let them return to their study. 
with your know view on crib too. purr little hartopp. what an immoral compromise. 
one moment say the reverend john. i we all of u have exercise an absolutely heart break discretion for the last ten day. now we want to know. confess have you know a happy minute since. 
a regard my house i have not say prout. but you be entirely wrong in your estimate of those boy. in justice to the others in self defence. 
ha. i say it would come to that murmur the reverend john. 
i be force to send them back. their moral influence be unspeakable simply unspeakable. 
and bite by bite he tell his tale begin with beetle s usury and end with the house prefect appeal. 
beetle in the ro le of shylock be new to me say king with twitch lip. i hear rumor of it. 
before. say prout. 
no after you have deal with them. but i be careful not to inquire. i never interfere with. 
i myself say hartopp would cheerfully give him five shilling if he could work out one simple sum in compound interest without three gross error. 
why why why. mason the mathematical master stutter a fierce joy on his face you ve be have precisely the same a me. 
and so you hold an inquiry. little hartopp s voice drown mason s ere prout catch the import of the sentence. 
the boy himself hint at the existence of a deal of it in the house say prout. 
he be past master in that line say the chaplain. but a regard the honor of the house. 
they lower it in a week. i have strive to build it up for year. my own house prefect and boy do not willingly complain of each other beseech me to get rid of them. you say you have their confidence gillett. they may tell you another tale. a far a i be concern they may go to the devil in their own way. i m sick and tire of them say prout bitterly. 
but it be the reverend john with a smile countenance who go to the devil just after number five have clear away a very pleasant little brew. it cost them two and fourpence. and be settle down to prep. 
come in padre come in say stalky thrust forward the best chair. we ve only meet you official like these last ten day. 
you be under sentence say the reverend john. i do not consort with malefactor. 
ah but we re restore again say mcturk. mr. prout ha relent. 
without a stain on our character say beetle. it be a painful episode padre most painful. 
now consider for a while and perpend me enfants. it be about your character that i ve call to night. in the language of the school what the dooce have you be up to in mr. prout s house. it isn t anything to laugh over. he say that you so lower the tone of the house he have to pack you back to your study. be that true. 
every word of it padre. 
don t be flippant turkey. listen to me. i ve tell you very often that no boy in the school have a great influence for good or evil than you have. you know i don t talk about ethic and moral code because i don t believe that the young of the human animal realize what they mean for some year to come. all the same i don t want to think you ve be pervert the junior. don t interrupt beetle. listen to me. mr. prout ha a notion that you have be corrupt your associate somehow or other. 
mr. prout ha so many notion padre say beetle wearily. which one be this. 
well he tell me that he hear you tell a story in the twilight in the form room in a whisper. and orrin say just a he open the door shut up beetle. it s too beastly. now then. 
you remember mr. oliphant s beleaguer city that you lend me last term. say. beetle. 
the padre nod. 
i get the notion out of that. only instead of a city i make it the coll. in a fog besiege by ghost of dead boy who haul chap out of their bed in the dormitory. all the name be quite real. you tell it in a whisper you know with the name. orrin didn t like it one little bite. none of em have ever let me finish it. it get just awful at the end part. 
but why in the world didn t you explain to mr. prout instead of leave him under the impression. 
padre sahib say mcturk it isn t the least good explainin to mr. prout. if he hasn t one impression he s bind to have another. 
he d do it with the best o motif. he s in loco parentis_ purr stalky. 
you young demon. the reverend john reply. and be i to understand that the the usury business be another of your house master s impression. 
well we help a little in that say stalky. i do owe beetle two and fourpence at least beetle say i do but i never intend to pay him. then we start a bite of an argument on the stair and and mr. prout drop into it accidental. that be how it be padre. he pay me cash down like a giddy dook. stop it out of my pocket money just the same. and beetle give him my note of hand all correct. i don t know what happen after that. 
i be too truthful say beetle. i always be. you see he be under an impression padre and i suppose i ought to have correct that impression. but of course i couldn t be quite certain that his house wasn t give over to money lendin could i. i think the house prefect might know more about it than i do. they ought to. they re giddy palladium of public school. 
they do too by the time they d finish say mcturk. a nice a pair of conscientious well meanin upright pure souled boy a you d ever want to meet padre. they turn the house upside down harrison and craye with the best motif in the world. 
they say so. they say it very loud and clear. they go and shout in our ear say stalky. 
my own private impression be that all three of you will infallibly be hang say the reverend john. 
why we didn t do anything mcturk reply. it be all mr. prout. do you ever read a book about japanese wrestler. my uncle he s in the navy give me a beauty once. 
don t try to change the subject turkey. 
i m not sir. i m givin an illustration same a a sermon. these wrestler chap have get sort sort of trick that let the other chap do all the work. than they give a little wriggle and he upset himself. it s call shibbuwichee or tokonoma_ or somethin. mr. prout s a shibbuwicher. it isn t our fault. 
do you suppose we go round corruptin the mind of the fag. say beetle. they haven t any to begin with. and if they have they re corrupt long ago. i ve be a fag padre. 
well i fancy i know the normal range of your iniquity. but if you take so much trouble to pile up circumstantial evidence against yourselves you can t blame any one if. 
we don t blame any one padre. we haven t say a word against mr. prout have we. stalky look at the others. we love him. he hasn t a notion how we love him. 
h m. you dissemble your love very well. have you ever think who get you turn out of your study in the first place. 
it be mr. prout turn u out say stalky with significance. 
well i be that man. i didn t mean it. but some word of mine i m afraid give mr. prout the impression. 
number five laugh aloud. 
you see it s just the same thing with you padre say mcturk. he be quick to get an impression ain t he. but you mustn t think we don t love him cause we do. there isn t an ounce of vice about him. 
a double knock fell on the door. 
the head to see number five study in his study at once say the voice of foxy the school sergeant. 
whew. say the reverend john. it seem to me that there be a great deal of trouble come for some people. 
my word. mr. prout s go and tell the head say stalky. he s a moral double ender. not fair luggin the head into a house row. 
i should recommend a copy book on a h m safe and certain part say the reverend john disinterestedly. 
huh. he lick across the shoulder an it would slam like a beastly barn door say beetle. good night padre. we re in for it. 
once more they stand in the presence of the head belial mammon and lucifer. but they have to deal with a man more subtle than them all. mr. prout have talk to him heavily and sadly for half an hour. and the head have see all that be hide from the house master. 
you ve be bother mr. prout he say pensively. house master aren t here to be bother by boy more than be necessary. i don t like be bother by these thing. you be bother me. that be a very serious offense. you see it. 
yes sir. 
well now i purpose to bother you on personal and private ground because you have break into my time. you be much too big to lick so i suppose i shall have to mark my displeasure in some other way. say a thousand line apiece a week s gate and a few thing of that kind. much too big to lick aren t you. 
oh no sir say stalky cheerfully. for a week s gate in the summer term be serious. 
ve ry good. then we will do what we can. i wish you wouldn t bother me. 
it be a fair sustain equable stroke with a little draw to it but what they felt most be his unfairness in stop to talk between execution. thus. among the low class this would lay me open to a charge of assault. you should be more grateful for your privilege than you be. there be a limit one find it by experience beetle beyond which it be never safe to pursue private vendetta because don t move sooner or late one come into collision with the high authority who ha study the animal. et ego mcturk please in arcadia vixi. there s a certain flagrant injustice about this that ought to appeal to your temperament. and that s all. you will tell your house master that you have be formally can by me. 
my word. say mcturk wriggle his shoulder blade all down the corridor. that be business. the prooshan bat ha an infernal straight eye. 
wasn t it wily of me to ask for the lickin say stalky instead of those impots. 
rot. we be in for it from the first. i know the look of his old eye say beetle. i be within an inch of blub. 
well i didn t exactly smile stalky confess. 
let s go down to the lavatory and have a look at the damage. one of u can hold the glass and t others can squint. 
they proceed on these line for some ten minute. the wale be very red and very level. there be not a penny to choose between any of them for thoroughness efficiency and a certain clarity of outline that stamp the work of the artist. 
what be you do down there. mr. prout be at the head of the lavatory stair attract by the noise of splash. 
we ve only be can by the head sir and we re wash off the blood. the head say we be to tell you. we be come to report ourselves in a minute sir. sotto voce. that s a score for heffy. 
well he deserve to score something poor devil say mcturk put on his shirt. we ve sweat a stone and a half off him since we begin. 
but look here why aren t we wrathy with the head. he say it be a flagrant injustice. so it be. say beetle. 
dear man say mcturk and vouchsafe no further answer. 
it be stalky who laugh till he have to hold on by the edge of a basin. 
you be a funny as. what s that for. say beetle. 
i m i m think of the flagrant injustice of it. 
the moral reformer. 
there be no disguise the defeat. the victory be to prout but they grudge it not. if he have break the rule of the game by call in the head they have have a good run for their money. 
the reverend john seek the early opportunity of talk thing over. member of a bachelor common room of a school where master study be designedly dot among study and form room can if they choose see a great deal of their charge. number five have spend some cautious year in test the reverend john. he be emphatically a gentleman. he knock at a study door before enter. he comport himself a a visitor and not a stray lictor. he never prosed and he never carry over into official life the confidence of idle hour. prout be ever an unmitigated nuisance. king come solely a an avenger of blood. even little hartopp talk natural history seldom forget his office. but the reverend john be a guest desire and beloved by number five. 
behold him then in their only arm chair a bend briar between his teeth chin down in three fold on his clerical collar and blow like an amiable whale while number five discourse of life a it appear to them and specially of that last interview with the head in the matter of usury. 
one lick once a week would do you an immense amount of good he say twinkle and shake all over. and a you say you be entirely in the right. 
ra ather padre. we could have prove it if he d let u talk say stalky. but he didn t. the head s a downy bird. 
he understand you perfectly. ho. ho. well you work hard enough for it. 
but he s awfully fair. he doesn t lick a chap in the morning an preach at him in the afternoon say beetle. 
he can t. he ain t in order thank goodness say mcturk. number five hold the very strong view on clerical head master and be ever ready to meet their pastor in argument. 
almost all other school have clerical head say the reverend john gently. 
it isn t fair on the chap stalky reply. make em sulky. of course it s different with you sir. you belong to the school same a we do. i mean ordinary clergyman. 
well i be a most ordinary clergyman. and mr. hartopp s in order too. 
ye e but he take em after he come to the coll. we saw him go up for his exam. that s all right say beetle. but just think if the head go and get ordain. 
what would happen beetle. 
oh the coll. ud go to piece in a year sir. there s no doubt o that. 
how d you know. the reverend john be smile. 
we ve be here nearly six year now. there be precious few thing about the coll. we don t know stalky reply. why even you come the term after i do sir. i remember your ask our name in form your first lesson. mr. king mr. prout and the head of course be the only master senior to u in that way. 
yes we ve change a good deal in common room. 
huh. say beetle with a grunt. they come here an they go away to get marry. jolly good riddance too. 
doesn t our beetle hold with matrimony. 
no padre. don t make fun of me. i ve meet chap in the holiday who ve get marry house master. it s perfectly awful. they have baby and teethe and measles and all that sort of thing right bung in the school. and the master wife give tea party tea party padre. and ask the chap to breakfast. 
that don t matter so much say stalky. but the house master let their house alone and they leave everything to the prefect. why in one school a chap tell me there be big baize door and a passage about a mile long between the house and the master s house. they could do just what they please. 
satan rebuke sin with a vengeance. 
oh lark be right enough. but you know what we mean padre. after a bite it get bad an bad. then there s a big bust up and a row that get into the paper and a lot of chap be expel you know. 
always the wrong un s. don t forget that. have a cup of cocoa padre. say mcturk with the kettle. 
no thank. i m smoke. always the wrong un. pro ceed my stalky. 
and then stalky warm to the work everybody say who d ha think it. shockin boy. wicked little kid. it all come of havin marry house master i think. 
a daniel come to judgment. 
but it doe mcturk interrupt. i ve meet chap in the holiday an they ve tell me the same thing. it look awfully pretty for one s people to see a nice separate house with a nice lady in charge an all that. but it isn t. it take the house master off their work and it give the prefect a heap too much power an an it rot up everything. you see it isn t a if we be just an ordinary school. we take crammer rejection a well a good little boy like stalky. we ve get to do that to make our name of course and we get em into sandhurst somehow or other don t we. 
true o turk. like a book thou talkest turkey. 
and so we want rather different master don t you think so to other place. we aren t like the rest of the school. 
it lead to all sort of bullyin too a chap tell me say beetle. 
well you do need most of a single man s time i must say. the reverend john consider his host critically. but do you never feel that the world the common room be too much with you sometimes. 
not exactly in summer anyhow. stalky s eye rove contentedly to the window. our bound be pretty big too and they leave u to ourselves a good deal. 
for example here be i sit in your study very much in your way eh. 
indeed you aren t padre. sit down. don t go sir. you know we re glad whenever you come. 
there be no doubt the sincerity of the voice. the reverend john flush a little with pleasure and refill his briar. 
and we generally know where the common room be say beetle triumphantly. didn t you come through our low dormitory last night after ten sir. 
i go to smoke a pipe with your house master. no i didn t give him any impression. i take a short cut through your dormitory. 
i sniff a whiff of baccy this mornin. yours be strong than mr. prout s. i know say beetle wag his head. 
good heaven. say the reverend john absently. it be some year before beetle perceive that this be rather a tribute to innocence than observation. the long light blindless dormitory devoid of inner door be cross at all hour of the night by master visit one another. for bachelor sit up late than marry folk. beetle have never dream that there might be a purpose in this steady police. 
talk about bully the reverend john resume you all catch it pretty hot when you be fag didn t you. 
well we must have be rather awful little beast say beetle look serenely over the gulf between eleven and sixteen. my hat what bully they be then fairburn gobby maunsell and all that gang. 
member when gobby call u the three blind mouse and we have to get up on the locker and sing while he buzz ink pot at u. say stalky. they be bully if you like. 
but there isn t any of it now say mcturk soothingly. 
that s where you make a mistake. we re all incline to say that everything be all right a long we aren t ourselves hurt. i sometimes wonder if it be extinct bully. 
fag bully each other horrid. but the upper form be suppose to be swottin for exam. they ve get something else to think about say beetle. 
why. what do you think. stalky be watch the chaplain s face. 
i have my doubt. then explosively on my word for three moderately intelligent boy you aren t very observant. i suppose you be too busy make thing warm for your house master to see what lay under your nose when you be in the form room last week. 
what sir. i i swear we didn t see anything say beetle. 
then i d advise you to look. when a little chap be whimper in a corner and wear his clothe like rag and never doe any work and be notoriously the dirty little corridor caution in the coll. something s wrong somewhere. 
that s clewer say mcturk under his breath. 
yes clewer. he come to me for his french. it s his first term and he s almost a complete a wreck a you be beetle. he s not naturally clever but he ha be hammer till he s nearly an idiot. 
oh no. they sham silly to get off more ticking say beetle. _i know that. 
i ve never actually see him knock about say the reverend john. 
the genuine article don t do that in public say beetle. fairburn never touch me when any one be look on. 
you needn t swagger about it beetle say mcturk. we all catch it in our time. 
but i get it bad than any one say beetle. if you want an authority on bullyin padre come to me. corkscrew brush drill key head knucklin arm twistin rockin ag ag and all the rest of it. 
yes. i do want you a an authority or rather i want your authority to stop it all of you. 
what about abana and pharpar padre harrison and craye. they be mr. prout s pet say mcturk a little bitterly. we aren t even sub prefect. 
i ve consider that but on the other hand since most bully be mere thoughtlessness. 
not one little bite of it padre say mcturk. bully like bullyin. they mean it. they think it up in lesson and practise it in the quarter. 
never mind. if the thing go up to the prefect it may make another house row. you ve have one already. don t laugh. listen to me. i ask you my own tenth legion to take the thing up quietly. i want little clewer make to look fairly clean and decent. 
blow if i wash him. whisper stalky. 
decent and self respect. a for the other boy whoever he be you can use your influence a purely secular light flicker in the chaplain s eye in any way you please to to dissuade him. that s all. i ll leave it to you. good night me enfants. 
well what be we goin to do. number five star at each other. 
young clewer would give his eye for a place to be quiet in. i know that say beetle. if we make him a study fag eh. 
no. say mcturk firmly. he s a dirty little brute and he d mess up everything. besides we ain t goin to have any beastly erickin. d you want to walk about with your arm round his neck. 
he d clean out the jam pot anyhow. an the burn porridge saucepan it s filthy now. 
not good enough say stalky bring up both heel with a crash on the table. if we find the merry jester who s be bullyin him an make him happy that ll be all right. why didn t we spot him when we be in the form room though. 
maybe a lot of fag have make a dead set at clewer. they do that sometimes. 
then we ll have to kick the whole of the low school in our house on spec. come on say mcturk. 
keep your hair on. we mustn t make a fuss about the biznai. whoever it be he s keep quiet or we d have see him say stalky. we ll walk round and sniff about till we re sure. 
they draw the house form room account for every junior and senior against whom they have suspicion. investigate at beetle s suggestion the lavatory and box room but without result. everybody seem to be present save clewer. 
rum. say stalky pause outside a study door. golly. 
a thin pip mix with tear come muffle through the panel. 
a beautiful kitty one morning be trip. 
loud you young devil or i ll buzz a book at you. 
with a pitcher of milk oh campbell please don t. to the fair of. 
a book crash on something soft and squeal arise. 
well i never think it be a study chap anyhow. that account for our not spot him say beetle. sefton and campbell be rather hefty chap to tackle. besides one can t go into their study like a form room. 
what swine. mcturk listen. where s the fun of it. i suppose clewer s faggin for them. 
they aren t prefect. that s one good job say stalky with his war grin. sefton and campbell. um. campbell and sefton. ah. one of em s a crammer s pup. 
the two be precocious hairy youth between seventeen and eighteen send to the school in despair by parent who hop that six month steady cram might perhaps jockey them into sandhurst. nominally they be in mr. prout s house. actually they be under the head s eye. and since he be very careful never to promote strange new boy to prefectships they consider they have a grievance against the school. sefton have spend three month with a london crammer and the tale of his adventure there lose nothing in the tell. campbell who have a fine taste in clothe and a fluent vocabulary follow his lead in look down loftily on the rest of the world. this be only their second term and the school use to what it profanely call crammer pup have treat them with rather gall reserve. but their whisker sefton own a real razor and their mustache be beyond question impressive. 
shall we go in an dissuade em. mcturk ask. i ve never have much to do with em but i ll bet my hat campbell s a funk. 
no o. that s oratio directa_ say stalky shake his head. i like oratio obliqua. side where d our moral influence be then. think o that. 
rot. what be you goin to do. beetle turn into low number nine form room next door to the study. 
me. the light of war flicker over stalky s face. oh i want to jape with em. shut up a bite. 
he drive his hand into his pocket and star out of window at the sea whistle between his teeth. then a foot tap the floor. one shoulder lift. he wheel and begin the short quick double shuffle the war dance of stalky in meditation. thrice he cross the empty form room with compress lip and expand nostril sway to the quick step. then he halt before the dumb beetle and softly knuckle his bead beetle bow to the stroke. mcturk nurse one knee and rock to and fro. they could hear clewer howl a though his heart would break. 
beetle be the sacrifice stalky say at last i m sorry for you beetle. member galton s art of travel [one of the form have be study that pleasant work] an the kid whose bleatin excite the tiger. 
oh curse. say beetle uneasily. it be not his first season a a sacrifice. can t you get on without me. 
fraid not beetle dear. you ve get to be bully by turkey an me. the more you howl o course the good it ll be. turkey go an covet a stump and a box rope from somewhere. we ll tie him up for a kill a la galton. member when molly fairburn make u cock fight with our shoe off an tie up our knee. 
but that hurt like sin. 
course it do. what a clever chap you be beetle. turkey ll knock you all over the place. member we ve have a big row all round an i ve trap you into doin this. lend u your wipe. beetle be truss for cock fight. but in addition to the transverse stump between elbow and knee his knee be bind with a box rope. in this posture at a push from stalky he roll over sideways cover himself with dust. 
ruffle his hair turkey. now you get down too. the bleatin of the kid excite the tiger. you two be in such a sweatin wax with me that you only curse. member that. i ll tickle you up with a stump. you ll have to blub beetle. 
right o. i ll work up to it in half a shake say beetle. 
now begin and remember the bleatin o the kid. 
shut up you brute. let me up. you ve nearly cut my knee off. oh you be beastly cad. do shut up. tisn t a joke. beetle s protest be in tone a work of art. 
give it to him turkey. kick him. roll him over. kill him. don t funk beetle you brute. kick him again turkey. 
he s not blubbin really. roll up beetle or i ll kick you into the fender roar mcturk. they make a hideous noise among them and the bait allure their quarry. 
hullo. what s the giddy jest. sefton and campbell enter to find beetle on his side his head against the fender weep copiously while mcturk prod him in the back with his toe. 
it s only beetle stalky explain. he s shammin hurt. i can t get turkey to go for him properly. sefton promptly kick both boy and his face light. all right i ll attend to em. get up an cock fight you two. give me the stump. i ll tickle em. here s a giddy jest. come on campbell. let s cook em. 
then mcturk turn on stalky and call him very evil name. 
you say you be goin to cock fight too stalky. come on. 
more as you for believin me then. shriek stalky. 
have you chap have a row. say campbell. row. say stalky. huh. i m only educatin them. d you know anythin about cock fight seffy. 
do i know. why at maclagan s where i be crammin in town we use to cock fight in his draw room and little maclagan daren t say anything. but we be just the same a men there of course. do i know. i_ ll show you. 
can t i get up. moan beetle a stalky sit on his shoulder. 
don t jaw you fat piffler. you re go to fight seffy. 
he ll slay me. 
oh lug em into our study say campbell. it s nice an quiet in there. i ll cock fight turkey. this be an improvement on young clewer. 
right o. i move it s shoe off for them an shoe on for u say sefton joyously and the two be fling down on the study floor. stalky roll them behind an arm chair. now i ll tie you two up an direct the bull fight. golly what wrist you have seffy. they re too thick for a wipe. get a box rope. say he. 
lot in the corner sefton reply. hurry up. stop blubbin you brute beetle. we re goin to have a giddy campaign. loser have to sing for the winner sing ode in honor of the conqueror. you call yourself a beastly poet don t you beetle. i ll poet you. 
he wriggle into position by campbell s side. swiftly and scientifically the stump be thrust through the natural crook and the wrist tie with well stretch box rope to an accompaniment of insult from mcturk bind betray and voluble behind the chair. stalky set away campbell and sefton and stride over to his ally lock the door on the way. 
and that s all right say he in a change voice. 
what the devil. sefton begin. beetle s false tear have cease. mcturk smile be on his foot. together they bind the knee and ankle of the enemy even more straitly. 
stalky take the arm chair and contemplate the scene with his bland smile. a man truss for cock fight be perhaps the most helpless thing in the world. 
the bleatin of the kid excite the tiger. oh you frabjous ass. he lay back and laugh till he could no more. the victim take in the situation but slowly. we ll give you the fine lickin you ever have in your young life when we get up. thunder sefton from the floor. you ll laugh the other side of your mouth before you ve do. what the deuce d you mean by this. 
you ll see in two shake say mcturk. don t swear like that. what we want to know be why you two hulkin swine have be bullyin clewer. 
it s none of your business. 
what do you bully clewer for. the question be repeat with madden iteration by each in turn. they know their work. 
because we jolly well choose. be the answer at last. let s get up. even then they could not realize the game. 
well now we re goin to bully you because we jolly well choose. we re goin to be just a fair to you a you be to clewer. he couldn t do anything against you. you can t do anything to u. odd ain t it. 
can t we. you wait an see. 
ah say beetle reflectively that show you ve never be properly jest with. a public lickin ain t in it with a gentle jape. bet a bob you ll weep an promise anything. 
look here young beetle we ll half kill you when we get up. i ll promise you that at any rate. 
you re go to be half kill first though. do you give clewer head knuckle. 
do you give clewer head knuckle. mcturk echo. at the twentieth repetition no boy can stand the torture of one unvarying query which be the essence of bully come confession. 
we do confound you. 
then you ll be knuckle. and knuckle they be accord to ancient experience. head knuckle be no trifle. molly fairburn of the old day could not have do good. 
do you give clewer brush drill. this time the question be answer sooner and brush drill be deal out for the space of five minute by stalky s watch. they could not even writhe in their bond. no brush be employ in brush drill. 
do you give clewer the key. 
no. we didn t. i swear we didn t. from campbell roll in agony. 
then we ll give it to you so you can see what it would be like if you have. 
the torture of the key which ha no key at all hurt excessively. they endure several minute of it and their language necessitate the gag. 
do you give clewer corkscrew. 
yes. oh curse your silly soul. let u alone you cad. 
they be corkscrew and the torture of the corkscrew this ha nothing to do with corkscrew be keen than the torture of the key. 
the method and silence of the attack be break their nerve. between each new torture come the pitiless daze rain of question and when they do not answer to the point isabella color handkerchief be thrust into their mouth. 
now be those all the thing you do to clewer. take out the gag turkey and let em answer. 
yes i swear that be all. oh you re kill u stalky. cry campbell. 
pre cisely what clewer say to you. i hear him. now we re goin to show you what real bullyin be. what i don t like about you sefton be you come to the coll. with your stick up collar an patent leather boot an you think you can teach u something about bully. do you think you can teach u anything about bully. take out the gag and let him answer. 
no. ferociously. 
he say no. rock him to sleep. campbell can watch. 
it need three boy and two box glove to rock a boy to sleep. again the operation ha nothing to do with it name. sefton be rock till his eye set in his head and he gasp and crow for breath sick and dizzy. 
my aunt. say campbell appal from his corner and turn white. 
put him away say stalky. bring on campbell. now this be bullyin. oh i forget. i say campbell what do you bully clewer for. take out his gag and let him answer. 
i i don t know. oh let me off. i swear i ll make it pax. don t rock me. 
the bleatin of the kid excite the tiger. he say he don t know. set him up beetle. give me the glove an put in the gag. 
in silence campbell be rock sixty four time. 
i believe i m goin to die. he gasp. he say he be goin to die. put him away. now sefton. oh i forget. sefton what do you bully clewer for. 
the answer be unprintable. but it bring not the faint flush to stalky s downy cheek. 
make him an ag ag turkey. 
and an ag ag be he make forthwith. the hard buy experience of nearly eighteen year be at his disposal but he do not seem to appreciate it. 
he say we be sweep. put him away. now campbell. oh i forget. i say campbell what do you bully clewer for. 
then come the tear scald tear. appeal for mercy and abject promise of peace. let them cease the torture and campbell would never lift hand against them. the question begin again to an accompaniment of small persuasion. 
you seem hurt campbell. be you hurt. 
yes. awfully. 
he say he be hurt. be you break. 
yes yes. i swear i be. oh stop. 
he say he be break. be you humble. 
yes. 
he say he be humble. be you devilish humble. 
yes. 
he say he be devilish humble. will you bully clewer any more. 
no. no ooh. 
he say he win t bully clewer. or any one else. 
no. i swear i win t. 
or any one else. what about that lickin you and sefton be goin to give u. 
i win t. i win t. i swear i win t. 
he say he win t lick u. do you esteem yourself to know anything about bullyin. 
no i don t. 
he say he doesn t know anything about bullyin. haven t we teach you a lot. 
yes yes. 
he say we ve teach him a lot. aren t you grateful. 
yes. 
he say he be grateful. put him away. oh i forget. i say campbell what do you bully clewer for. 
he weep anew. his nerve be raw. because i be a bully. i suppose that s what you want me to say. 
he say he be a bully. right he be. put him in the corner. no more jape for campbell. now sefton. 
you devil. you young devil. this and much more a sefton be punt across the carpet by skilful knee. 
the bleatin of the kid excite the tiger. we re goin to make you beautiful. where doe he keep his shave thing. [campbell tell. ] beetle get some water. turkey make the lather. we re goin to shave you seffy so you d good lie jolly still or you ll get cut. i ve never shave any one before. 
don t. oh don t. please don t. 
gettin polite eh. i m only goin to take off one ducky little whisker. 
i ll i ll make it pax_ if you don t. i swear i ll let you off your lickin when i get up. 
_and half that mustache we re so proud of. he say he ll let u off our lickin. isn t he kind. 
mcturk laugh into the nickel plat shave cup and settle sefton s head between stalky s vise like knee. 
hold on a shake say beetle you can t shave long hair. you ve get to cut all that mustache short first an then scrape him. 
well i m not goin to hunt about for scissor. win t a match do. chuck u the match box. he be a hog you know. we might a well singe him. lie still. he light a vesta but check his hand. i only want to take off half though. 
that s all right. beetle wave the brush. i ll lather up to the middle see. and you can burn off the rest. 
the thin haired first mustache of youth fluff off in flame to the lather line in the centre of the lip and stalky rub away the burn stumpage with his thumb. it be not a very gentle shave but it abundantly accomplish it purpose. 
now the whisker on the other side. turn him over. between match and razor this too be remove. give him his shave glass. take the gag out. i want to hear what he ll say. 
but there be no word. sefton gaze at the lop side wreck in horror and despair. two fat tear roll down his cheek. 
oh i forget. i say sefton what do you bully clewer for. 
leave me alone. oh you infernal bully leave me alone. haven t i have enough. 
he say we must leave him alone say mcturk. 
he say we be bully an we haven t even begin yet say beetle. you re ungrateful seffy. golly. you do look an atrocity and a half. 
he say he ha have enough say stalky. he err. 
well to work to work. chant mcturk wave a stump. come on my giddy narcissus. don t fall in love with your own reflection. 
oh let him off say campbell from his corner. he s blub too. 
sefton cry like a twelve year old with pain shame wound vanity and utter helplessness. 
you ll make it pax_ sefton win t you. you can t stand up to those young devil. 
don t be rude campbell de ah say mcturk or you ll catch it again. 
you be devil you know say campbell. 
what. for a little bullyin same a you ve be givin clewer. how long have you be jestin with him. say stalky. all this term. 
we didn t always knock him about though. 
you do when you could catch him say beetle cross legged on the floor drop a stump from time to time across sefton s instep. don t i know it. 
i perhaps we do. 
and you go out of your way to catch him. don t i know it. because he be an awful little beast eh. don t i know it. now you see you_ re awful beast and you re gettin what he get for bein a beast. just because we choose. 
we never really bully him like you ve do u. 
yah. say beetle. they never really bully molly fairburn didn t. only knock em about a little bite. that s what they say. only kick their soul out of em and they go and blub in the box room. shove their head into the ulster an blub. write home three time a day yes you brute i ve do that askin to be take away. you ve never be bully properly campbell i m sorry you make pax. 
i m not. say campbell who be a humorist in a way. look out you re slay sefton. 
in his excitement beetle have use the stump unreflectingly and sefton be now shout for mercy. 
an you. he cry wheel where he sit. you ve never be bully either. where be you before you come here. 
i i have a tutor. 
yah. you would. you never blub in your life. but you re blubbin now by gum. aren t you blubbin. 
can t you see you blind beast. sefton fell over sideways tear track furrow the dry lather. crack come the cricket stump on the curve latter end of him. 
blind be i say beetle and a beast. shut up stalky. i m goin to jape a bite with our friend a la molly fairburn. i think i can see. can t i see sefton. 
the point be well take say mcturk watch the strap at work. you d good say that he see seffy. 
you do you can. i swear you do. yell sefton for strong argument be coerce him. 
aren t my eye lovely. the stump rise and fell steadily throughout this catechism. 
yes. 
a gentle hazel aren t they. 
yes oh yes. 
what a liar you be. they re sky blue. ain t they sky blue. 
yes oh yes. 
you don t know your mind from one minute to another. you must learn you must learn. 
what a bait you re in. say stalky. keep your hair on beetle. 
i ve have it do to me say beetle. now about my be a beast. 
_pax oh pax. cry sefton. make it pax. i ll give up. let me off. i m break. i can t stand it. 
ugh. just when we be gettin our hand in. grunt mcturk. 
they didn t let clewer off i ll swear. 
confess apologize quick. say stalky. 
from the floor sefton make unconditional surrender more abjectly even than campbell he would never touch any one again. he would go softly all the day of his life. 
we ve get to take it i suppose. say stalky. all right sefton. you re break. very good. shut up beetle. but before we let you up you an campbell will kindly oblige u with kitty of coleraine a la clewer. 
that s not fair say campbell. we ve surrender. 
course you have. now you re goin to do what we tell you same a clewer would. if you hadn t surrender you d ha be really bully. havin surrender do you follow seffy. you sing ode in honor of the conqueror. hurry up. 
they drop into chair luxuriously. campbell and sefton look at each other and neither take comfort from that view strike up kitty of coleraine. 
vile bad say stalky a the miserable wail end. if you hadn t surrender it would have be our painful duty to buzz book at you for singin out o tune. now then. 
he free them from their bond but for several minute they could not rise. campbell be first on his foot smile uneasily. sefton stagger to the table bury his head in his arm and shake with sob. there be no shadow of fight in either only amazement distress and shame. 
ca can t he shave clean before tea please. say campbell. it s ten minute to bell. 
stalky shake his head. he mean to escort the half shave one to the meal. 
mcturk yawn in his chair and beetle mop his face. they be all drip with excitement and exertion. 
if i know anything about it i swear i d give you a moral lecture say stalky severely. 
don t jaw. they ve surrender say mcturk. this moral suasion biznai take it out of a chap. 
don t you see how gentle we ve be. we might have call clewer in to look at you say stalky. the bleatin of the tiger excite the kid. but we didn t. we ve only get to tell a few chap in coll. about this and you d be hoot all over the shop. your life wouldn t be worth havin. but we aren t goin to do that either. we re strictly moral suasers campbell. so unless you or seffy split about this no one will. 
i swear you re a brick say campbell. i suppose i be rather a brute to clewer. 
it look like it say stalky. but i don t think seffy need come into hall with cock eye whisker. horrid bad for the fag if they saw him. he can shave. ain t you grateful sefton. 
the head do not lift. sefton be deeply asleep. 
that s rummy say mcturk a a snore mix with a sob. cheek i think. or else he s shammin. 
no tisn t say beetle. when molly fairburn have attend to me for an hour or so i use to go bung off to sleep on a form sometimes. poor devil. but he call me a beastly poet though. 
well come on. stalky lower his voice. good by campbell. member if you don t talk nobody will. 
there should have be a war dance but that all three be so utterly tire that they almost go to sleep above the tea cup in their study and sleep till prep. 
a most extraordinary letter. be all parent incurably mad. what do you make of it. say the head hand a closely write eight page to the reverend john. 
the only son of his mother and she a widow. that be the least reasonable sort. the chaplain read with purse lip. if half those charge be true he should be in the sick house. whereas he be disgustingly well. certainly he ha shave. i notice that. 
under compulsion a his mother point out. how delicious. how salutary. 
you haven t to answer her. it isn t often i don t know what ha happen in the school. but this be beyond me. 
if you ask me i should say seek not to propitiate. when one be force to take crammer pup. 
he be perfectly well at extra tuition with me this morning say the head absently. unusually well behave too. 
they either educate the school or the school a in this case educate them. i prefer our own method the chaplain conclude. 
you think it be that. a lift of the head s eye brow. 
i m sure of it. and nothing excuse his try to give the college a bad name. 
that s the line i mean to take with him the head answer. 
the augur wink. 
a few day late the reverend john call on number five. why haven t we see you before padre. say they. 
i ve be watch time and season and event and men and boy he reply. i be please with my tenth legion. i make them my compliment. clewer be throw ink ball in form this morning instead of do his work. he be now do fifty line for unheard of audacity. 
you can t blame u sir say beetle. you tell u to remove the er pressure. that s the bad of a fag. 
i ve know boy five year his senior throw ink ball beetle. to such an one have i give two hundred line not so long ago. and now i come to think of it be those line ever show up. 
be they turkey. say beetle unblushingly. 
don t you think clewer look a little clean padre. stalky interrupt. 
we re no end of moral reformer say mcturk. 
it be all stalky but it be a lark say beetle. 
i have notice the moral reform in several quarter. didn t i tell you you have more influence than any boy in the coll. if you care to use it. 
it s a trifle exhaustin to use frequent our kind of moral suasion. besides you see it only make clewer cheeky. 
i wasn t think of clewer. i be think of the other people stalky. 
oh we didn t bother much about the other people say mcturk. do we. 
but i do from the begin. 
then you know sir. 
a downward puff of smoke. boy educate each other they say more than we can or dare. if i have use one half of the moral suasion you may or may not have employ. 
with the best motif in the world. don t forget our pious motif padre say mcturk. 
i suppose i should be now languish in bideford jail shouldn t i. well to quote the head in a little business which we have agree to forget that strike me a flagrant injustice. what be you laugh at you young sinner. isn t it true. i will not stay to be shout at. what i look into this den of iniquity for be to find out if any one care to come down for a bathe off the ridge. but i see you win t. 
win t we though. half a shake padre sahib till we get our towel and nous somme avec vous. 
a little prep. 
easter term be but a month old when stettson major a day boy contract diphtheria and the head be very angry. he decree a new and narrow set of bound the infection have be trace to an out lie farmhouse urge the prefect severely to lick all trespasser and promise extra attention from his own hand. there be no word bad enough for stettson major quarantine at his mother s house who have lower the school average of health. this he say in the gymnasium after prayer. then he write some two hundred letter to a many anxious parent and guardian and bid the school carry on. the trouble do not spread but one night a dog cart drive to the head s door and in the morning the head have go leave all thing in charge of mr. king senior house master. the head often run up to town where the school devoutly believe he bribe official for early proof of the army examination paper. but this absence be unusually prolong. 
downy old bird. say stalky to the ally one wet afternoon in the study. he must have go on a bend and be lock up under a false name. 
what for. beetle enter joyously into the libel. 
forty shillin s or a month for hackin the chucker out of the pavvy on the shin. bat always ha a spree when he go to town. wish he be back though. i m about sick o king s whip an scorpion an lecture on public school spirit yah. and scholarship. 
crass an materialize brutality of the middle class readin solely for mark. not a scholar in the whole school mcturk quote pensively bore hole in the mantel piece with a hot poker. 
that s rather a sickly way of spend an afternoon. stink too. let s come out an smoke. here s a treat. stalky hold up a long indian cheroot. bag it from my pater last holiday. i m a bite shy of it though. it s hefty than a pipe. we ll smoke it palaver fashion. hand it round eh. let s lie up behind the old harrow on the monkey farm road. 
out of bound. bound beastly strict these day too. besides we shall cat. beetle sniff the cheroot critically. it s a regular pomposo stinkadore. 
you can. i shan t. what d you say turkey. 
oh may s well i s pose. 
chuck on your cap then. it s two to one. beetle out you come. 
they saw a group of boy by the notice board in the corridor. little foxy the school sergeant among them. 
more bound i expect say stalky. hullo foxibus who be you in mournin for. there be a broad band of crape round foxy s arm. 
he be in my old regiment say foxy jerk his head towards the notice where a newspaper cut be thumb tack between call over list. 
by gum. quoth stalky uncover a he read. it s old duncan fat sow duncan kill on duty at something or other kotal. rallyin his men with conspicuous gallantry. he would of course. the body be recover. that s all right. they cut em up sometimes don t they foxy. 
horrid say the sergeant briefly. 
poor old fat sow. i be a fag when he leave. how many doe that make to u foxy. 
mr. duncan he be the ninth. he come here when he be no big than little grey tertius. my old regiment too. yi nine to u mr. corkran up to date. 
the boy go out into the wet walk swiftly. 
wonder how it feel to be shoot and all that say stalky a they splash down a lane. where do it happen beetle. 
oh out in india somewhere. we re always rowin there. but look here stalky what be the good o sittin under a hedge an cattin. it s be eastly cold. it s be eastly wet and we ll be collar a sure a a gun. 
shut up. do you ever know your uncle stalky get you into a mess yet. like many other leader stalky do not dwell on past defeat. they push through a drip hedge land among water log clod and sit down on a rust coat harrow. the cheroot burn with sputtering of saltpetre. they smoke it gingerly each pass to the other between dose forefinger and thumb. 
good job we hadn t one apiece ain t it. say stalky shiver through set teeth. to prove his word he immediately lay all before them and they follow his example. 
i tell you moan beetle sweat clammy drop. oh stalky you be a fool. 
_je cat_ tu cat_ il cat. nous cattons. mcturk hand up his contribution and lay hopelessly on the cold iron. 
something s wrong with the beastly thing. i say beetle have you be droppin ink on it. 
but beetle be in no case to answer. limp and empty they sprawl across the harrow the rust mark their ulster in red square and the abandon cheroot end reek under their very cold nose. then they have hear nothing the head himself stand before them the head who should have be in town bribe examiner the head fantastically attire in old tweed and a deer stalker. 
ah he say finger his mustache. very good. i might have guess who it be. you will go back to the college and give my compliment to mr. king and ask him to give you an extra special lick. you will then do me five hundred line. i shall be back to morrow. five hundred line by five o clock to morrow. you be also gate for a week. this be not exactly the time for break bound. extra special please. 
he disappear over the hedge a lightly a he have come. there be a murmur of woman s voice in the deep lane. 
oh you prooshan brute. say mcturk a the voice die away. stalky it s all your silly fault. 
kill him. kill him. gasp beetle. 
i ca an t. i m go to cat again. i don t mind that but king ll gloat over u horrid. extra special ooh. 
stalky make no answer not even a soft one. they go to college and receive that for which they have be send. king enjoy himself most thoroughly for by virtue of their seniority the boy be exempt from his hand save under special order. luckily he be no expert in the gentle art. 
strange how desire doth outrun performance say beetle irreverently quote from some shakespeare play that they be cram that term. they regain their study and settle down to the imposition. 
you re quite right beetle. stalky speak in silky and propitiate tone. now if the head have send u up to a prefect we d have get something to remember. 
look here mcturk begin with cold venom we aren t goin to row you about this business because it s too bad for a row. but we want you to understand you re jolly well excommunicate stalky. you re a plain as. 
how be i to know that the head ud collar u. what be he doin in those ghastly clothe too. 
don t try to raise a side issue beetle grunt severely. 
well it be all stettson major s fault. if he hadn t go an get diphtheria twouldn t have happen. but don t you think it rather rummy the head droppin on u that way. 
shut up. you re dead. say beetle. we ve chop your spur off your beastly heel. we ve cock your shield upside down and and i don t think you ought to be allow to brew for a month. 
oh stop jawin at me. i want. 
stop. why why we re gate for a week. mcturk almost howl a the agony of the situation overcome him. a lickin from king five hundred line and a gatin. d you expect u to kiss you stalky you beast. 
drop rottin for a minute. i want to find out about the head bein where he be. 
well you have. you find him quite well and fit. find him makin love to stettson major s mother. that be her in the lane i hear her. and so we be order a lickin before a day boy s mother. bony old widow too say mcturk. anything else you d like to find out. 
i don t care. i swear i ll get even with him some day stalky growl. 
look like it say mcturk. extra special week s gatin and five hundred. and now you re goin to row about it. help scrag him beetle. stalky have throw his virgil at them. 
the head return next day without explanation to find the line wait for him and the school a little relax under mr. king s viceroyalty. mr. king have be talk at and round and over the boy head in a lofty and promiscuous style of public school spirit and the tradition of ancient seat. for he always improve an occasion. beyond wake in two hundred and fifty young heart a lively hatred of all other foundation he accomplish little so little indeed that when two day after the head s return he chance to come across stalky & co. gate but ever resourceful play marble in the corridor he say that he be not surprise not in the least surprise. this be what he have expect from person of their morale. 
but there isn t any rule against marble sir. very interestin game say beetle his knee white with chalk and dust. then he receive two hundred line for insolence besides an order to go to the near prefect for judgment and slaughter. 
this be what happen behind the close door of flint s study and flint be then head of the game. 
oh i say flint. king ha send me to you for playin marble in the corridor an shoutin alley tor an knuckle down. 
what doe he suppose i have to do with that. be the answer. 
dunno. well. beetle grin wickedly. what be i to tell him. he s rather wrathy about it. 
if the head choose to put a notice in the corridor forbiddin marble i can do something. but i can t move on a house master s report. he know that a well a i do. 
the sense of this oracle beetle convey all unsweetened to king who hasten to interview flint. 
now flint have be seven and a half year at the college count six month with a london crammer from whose roof he have return homesick to the head for the final army polish. there be four or five other senior who have go through much the same mill not to mention boy reject by other establishment on account of a certain overwhelmingness whom the head have work into very fair shape. it be not a sixth to be handle without glove a king find. 
be i to understand it be your intention to allow board school game under your study window flint. if so i can only say he say much and flint listen politely. 
well sir if the head see fit to call a prefect meet we be bind to take the matter up. but the tradition of the school be that the prefect can t move in any matter affect the whole school without the head s direct order. 
much more be then deliver both side a little lose their temper. 
after tea at an informal gather of prefect in his study flint relate the adventure. 
he s be playin for this for a week and now he s get it. you know a well a i do that if he hadn t be gas at u the way he ha that young devil beetle wouldn t have dream of marble. 
we know that say perowne but that isn t the question. on flint s showin king ha call the prefect name enough to justify a first class row. crammer rejection ill regulate hobble de hoy wasn t it. now it s impossible for prefect. 
rot say flint. king s the best classical cram we ve get. and tisn t fair to bother the head with a row. he s up to his eye with extra tu and army work a it be. besides a i tell king we aren t a public school. we re a limit liability company payin four per cent. my father s a shareholder too. 
what s that get to do with it. say venner a red head boy of nineteen. 
well seem to me that we should be interferin with ourselves. we ve get to get into the army or get out haven t we. king s hire by the council to teach u. all the rest s gumdiddle. can t you see. 
it might have be because he felt the air be a little thunderous that the head take his after dinner cheroot to flint s study. but he so often begin an even in a prefect s room that nobody suspect when he drift in pensively after the knock that etiquette demand. 
prefect meet. a cock of one wise eye brow. 
not exactly sir. we re just talk thing over. win t you take the easy chair. 
thank. luxurious infant you be. he drop into flint s big half couch and puff for a while in silence. well since you re all here i may confess that i m the mute with the bowstring. 
the young face grow serious. the phrase mean that certain of their number would be withdraw from all further game for extra tuition. it might also mean future success at sandhurst. but it be present ruin for the first fifteen. 
yes i ve come for my pound of flesh. i ought to have have you out before the exeter match. but it s our sacred duty to beat exeter. 
isn t the old boy match sacred too sir. say perowne. the old boy match be the event of the easter term. 
we ll hope they aren t in train. now for the list. first i want flint. it s the euclid that doe it. you must work deduction with me. perowne extra mechanical draw. dawson go to mr. king for extra latin and venner to me for german. have i damage the first fifteen much. he smile sweetly. 
ruin it i m afraid sir say flint. can t you let u off till the end of the term. 
impossible. it will be a tight squeeze for sandhurst this year. 
and all to be cut up by those vile afghan too say dawson. wouldn t think there d be so much competition would you. 
oh that remind me. crandall be come down with the old boy i ve ask twenty of them but we shan t get more than a weak team. i don t know whether he ll be much use though. he be rather knock about recover poor old duncan s body. 
crandall major the gunner. perowne ask. 
no the minor toffee crandall in a native infantry regiment. he be almost before your time perowne. 
the paper didn t say anything about him. we read about fat sow of course. what s crandall do sir. 
i ve bring over an indian paper that his mother send me. it be rather a hefty i think you say piece of work. shall i read it. the head know how to read. when he have finish the quarter column of close type everybody thank him politely. 
good for the old coll. say perowne. pity he wasn t in time to save fat sow though. that s nine to u isn t it in the last three year. 
yes. and i take old duncan off all game for extra tu five year ago this term say the head. by the way who do you hand over the game to flint. 
haven t think yet. who d you recommend sir. 
no thank you. i ve hear it casually hint behind my back that the prooshan bat be a downy bird but he isn t go to make himself responsible for a new head of the game. settle it among yourselves. good night. 
and that s the man say flint when the door shut that you want to bother with a dame s school row. 
i be only pullin your fat leg perowne return hastily. you re so easy to draw flint. 
well never mind that. the head s knock the first fifteen to bit and we ve get to pick up the piece or the old boy will have a walk over. let s promote all the second fifteen and make big side play up. there s heap of talent somewhere that we can polish up between now and the match. 
the case be represent so urgently to the school that even stalky and mcturk who affect to despise football play one big side game seriously. they be forthwith promote ere their ardor have time to cool and the dignity of their cap demand that they should keep some show of virtue. the match team be work at least four day out of seven and the school saw hope ahead. 
with the last week of the term the old boy begin to arrive and their welcome be nicely proportion to their worth. gentleman cadet from sandhurst and woolwich who have only leave a year ago but who carry enormous side be greet with a cheerful hullo. what s the shop like. from those who have share their study. militia subaltern have more consideration but it be understand they be not precisely of the true metal. recreant who fail for the army have go into business or bank be receive for old sake s sake but in no way make too much of. but when the real subaltern officer and gentleman full blow who have be to the end of the earth and back again and so carry no side come on the scene stroll about with the head the school divide right and leave in admire silence. and when one lay hand on flint even upon the head of the game cry good heaven. what do you mean by grow in this way. you be a beastly little fag when i leave visible halo encircle flint. they would walk to and fro in the corridor with the little red school sergeant tell news of old regiment. they would burst into form room sniff the well remember smell of ink and whitewash. they would find nephew and cousin in the low form and present them with enormous wealth. or they would invade the gymnasium and make foxy show off the new stock on the bar. 
chiefly though they talk with the head who be father confessor and agent general to them all. for what they shout in their unthinking youth they prove in their thoughtless manhood to wit that the prooshan bat be a downy bird. young blood who have stumble into an entanglement with a pastry cook s daughter at plymouth. experience who have come into a small legacy but mistrust lawyer. ambition halt at cross road anxious to take the one that would lead him farthest. extravagance pursue by the money lender. arrogance in the thick of a regimental row each carry his trouble to the head. and chiron show him in language quite unfit for little boy a quiet and safe way round out or under. so they overflow his house smoke his cigar and drink his health a they have drink it all the earth over when two or three of the old school have foregather. 
don t stop smoke for a minute say the head. the more you re out of train the good for u. i ve demoralize the first fifteen with extra tu. 
ah but we re a scratch lot. have you tell em we shall need a substitute even if crandall can play. say a lieutenant of engineer with a d. s. o. to his credit. 
he write me he d play so he can t have be much hurt. he s come down to morrow morning. 
crandall minor that be and bring off poor duncan s body. the head nod. where be you go to put him. we ve turn you out of house and home already head sahib. this be a squadron commander of bengal lancer home on leave. 
i m afraid he ll have to go up to his old dormitory. you know old boy can claim that privilege. yes i think little crandall minor must bed down there once more. 
bat sahib a gunner fling a heavy arm round the head s neck you ve get something up your sleeve. confess. i know that twinkle. 
can t you see you cuckoo. a submarine miner interrupt. crandall go up to the dormitory a an object lesson for moral effect and so forth. isn t that true head sahib. 
it be. you know too much purvis. i lick you for that in. 
you do sir and it s my private belief you chalk the cane. 
n no. but i ve a very straight eye. perhaps that mislead you. 
that open the flood gate of fresh memory and they all tell tale out of school. 
when crandall minor that be lieutenant r. crandall of an ordinary indian regiment arrive from exeter on the morning of the match he be cheer along the whole front of the college for the prefect have repeat the sense of that which the head have read them in flint s study. when prout s house understand that he would claim his old boy s right to a bed for one night beetle run into king s house next door and execute a public gloat up and down the enemy s big form room depart in a haze of ink pot. 
what d you take any notice of those rotter for. say stalky play substitute for the old boy magnificent in black jersey white knickers and black stocking. i talk to him up in the dormitory when he be changin. pull his sweater down for him. he s cut about all over the arm horrid purply one. he s goin to tell u about it to night. i ask him to when i be lacin his boot. 
well you have get cheek say beetle enviously. 
slip out before i think. but he wasn t a bite angry. he s no end of a chap. i swear i m goin to play up like bean. tell turkey. 
the technique of that match belong to a bygone age. scrimmage be tight and endure. hack be direct and to the purpose. and around the scrimmage stand the school cry put down your head and shove. toward the end everybody lose all sense of decency and mother of day boy too close to the touch line hear language not include in the bill. no one be actually carry off the field but both side felt happy when time be call and beetle help stalky and mcturk into their overcoat. the two have meet in the many legged heart of thing and a stalky say have do each other proud. a they swagger woodenly behind the team substitute do not rank a equal of hairy men they pass a pony carriage near the wall and a husky voice cry well play. oh play indeed. it be stettson major white check and hollow eye who have fight his way to the grind under escort of an impatient coachman. 
hullo stettson say stalky check. be it safe to come near you yet. 
oh yes. i m all right. they wouldn t let me out before but i have to come to the match. your mouth look pretty plummy. 
turkey tread on it accidental do a purpose. well i m glad you re good because we owe you something. you and your membrane get u into a sweet mess young man. 
i hear of that say the boy giggle. the head tell me. 
dooce he do. when. 
oh come on up to coll. my shin ll stiffen if we stay jawin here. 
shut up turkey. i want to find out about this. well. 
he be stayin at our house all the time i be ill. 
what for. neglectin the coll. that way. think he be in town. 
i be off my head you know and they say i keep on callin for him. 
cheek. you re only a day boy. 
he come just the same and he about save my life. i be all bung up one night just goin to croak the doctor say and they stick a tube or somethin in my throat and the head suck out the stuff. 
ugh. shoot if i would. 
he ought to have get diphtheria himself the doctor say. so he stay on at our house instead of go back. i d ha croak in another twenty minute the doctor say. 
here the coachman be under order whip up and nearly run over the three. 
my hat. say beetle. that s pretty average heroic. 
pretty average. mcturk s knee in the small of his back cannon him into stalky who punt him back. you ought to be hang. 
and the head ought to get the v. c. say stalky. why he might have be dead and bury by now. but he wasn t. but he didn t. ho. ho. he just nip through the hedge like a lusty old blackbird. extra special five hundred line an gate for a week all sereno. 
i ve read o somethin like that in a book say beetle. gummy what a chap. just think of it. 
i m think say mcturk. and he deliver a wild irish yell that make the team turn round. 
shut your fat mouth say stalky dance with impatience. leave it to your uncle stalky and he ll have the head on toast. if you say a word beetle till i give you leave i swear i ll slay you. habeo capitem crinibus minimis. i ve get him by the short hair. now look a if nothing have happen. 
there be no need of guile. the school be too busy cheer the draw match. it hang round the lavatory regardless of muddy boot while the team wash. it cheer crandall minor whenever it catch sight of him and it cheer more wildly than ever after prayer because the old boy in even dress openly twirl their mustache attend and instead of stand with the master range themselves along the wall immediately before the prefect. and the head call them over too major minor and tertiuses after their old name. 
yes it s all very fine he say to his guest after dinner but the boy be get a little out of hand. there will be trouble and sorrow late i m afraid. you d good turn in early crandall. the dormitory will be sit up for you. i don t know to what dizzy height you may climb in your profession but i do know you ll never get such absolute adoration a you re get now. 
confound the adoration. i want to finish my cigar sir. 
it s all pure gold. go where glory wait crandall minor. 
the set of that apotheosis be a ten bed attic dormitory communicate through doorless opening with three others. the gas flicker over the raw pine washstand. there be an incessant whistle of draft and outside the naked window the sea beat on the pebbleridge. 
same old bed same old mattress i believe say crandall yawn. same old everything. oh but i m lame. i d no notion you chap could play like this. he caress a batter shin. you ve give u all something to remember you by. 
it need a few minute to put them at their ease. and in some way they could not understand they be more easy when crandall turn round and say his prayer a ceremony he have neglect for some year. 
oh i be sorry. i ve forget to put out the gas. 
please don t bother say the prefect of the dormitory. worthington doe that. 
a nightgowned twelve year old who have be wait to show off leap from his bed to the bracket and back again by way of a washstand. 
how d you manage when he s asleep. say crandall chuckle. 
shove a cold cleek down his neck. 
it be a wet sponge when i be junior in the dormitory. hullo. what s happen. 
the darkness have fill with whisper the sound of trail rug bare foot on bare board protest giggle and threat such a. 
be quiet you as. squattez vous on the floor then. i swear you aren t go to sit on my bed. mind the tooth glass etc. 
sta corkran say the prefect begin his tone show his sense of stalky s insolence that perhaps you d tell u about that business with duncan s body. 
yes yes yes run the keen whisper. tell u. 
there s nothing to tell. what on earth be you chap hoppin about in the cold for. 
never mind u say the voice. tell about fat sow. 
so crandall turn on his pillow and speak to the generation he could not see. 
well about three month ago he be command a treasure guard a cart full of rupee to pay troop with five thousand rupee in silver. he be comin to a place call fort pearson near kalabagh. 
i be bear there squeak a small fag. it be call after my uncle. 
shut up you and your uncle. never mind him crandall. 
well ne er mind. the afridis find out that this treasure be on the move and they ambush the whole show a couple of mile before he get to the fort and cut up the escort. duncan be wound and the escort hook it. there weren t more than twenty sepoys all tell and there be any amount of afridis. a thing turn out i be in charge at fort pearson. fact be i d hear the fire and be just go to see about it when duncan s men come up. so we all turn back together. they tell me something about an officer but i couldn t get the hang of thing till i saw a chap under the wheel of the cart out in the open prop up on one arm blaze away with a revolver. you see the escort have abandon the cart and the afridis they re an awfully suspicious gang think the retreat be a trap sort of draw you know and the cart be the bait. so they have leave poor old duncan alone. minute they spot how few we be it be a race across the flat who should reach old duncan first. we run and they run and we win and after a little hackin about they pull off. i never know it be one of u till i be right on top of him. there be heap of duncan in the service and of course the name didn t remind me. he wasn t change at all hardly. he d be shoot through the lung poor old man and he be pretty thirsty. i give him a drink and sit down beside him and funny thing too he say hullo toffee. and i say hullo fat sow. hope you aren t hurt or something of the kind. but he die in a minute or two never lift his head off my knee. i say you chap out there will get your death of cold. good go to bed. 
all right. in a minute. but your cut your cut. how do you get wound. 
that be when we be take the body back to the fort. they come on again and there be a bite of a scrimmage. 
do you kill any one. 
yes. shouldn t wonder. good night. 
good night. thank you crandall. thank awf ly crandall. good night. 
the unseen crowd withdraw. his own dormitory rustle into bed and lay silent for a while. 
i say crandall stalky s voice be tune to a wholly foreign reverence. 
well what. 
suppose a chap find another chap croak with diphtheria all bung up with it and they stick a tube in his throat and the chap suck the stuff out what would you say. 
um say crandall reflectively. i ve only hear of one case and that be a doctor. he do it for a woman. 
oh this wasn t a woman. it be just a boy. 
make it all the fine then. it s about the brave thing a man can do. why. 
oh i hear of a chap doin it. that s all. 
then he s a brave man. 
would you funk it. 
ra ather. anybody would. fancy die of diphtheria in cold blood. 
well ah. er. look here. the sentence end in a grunt for stalky have leap out of bed and with mcturk be sit on the head of beetle who would have spring the mine there and then. 
next day which be the last of the term and give up to a few wholly unimportant examination begin with wrath and war. mr. king have discover that nearly all his house it lay a you know next door but one to prout s in the long range of building have unlock the door between the dormitory and have go in to listen to a story tell by crandall. he go to the head clamorous injure appeal. for he never approve of allow so call young men of the world to contaminate the moral of boyhood. very good say the head he would attend to it. 
well i m awf ly sorry say crandall guiltily. i don t think i tell em anything they oughtn t to hear. don t let them get into trouble on my account. 
tck. the head answer with the ghost of a wink. it isn t the boy that make trouble. it s the master. however prout and king don t approve of dormitory gathering on this scale and one must back up the house master. moreover it s hopeless to punish two house only so late in the term. we must be fair and include everybody. let s see. they have a holiday task for the easter which of course none of them will ever look at. we will give the whole school except prefect and study boy regular prep. to night. and the common room will have to supply a master to take it. we must be fair to all. 
prep. on the last night of the term. whew. say crandall think of his own wild youth. i fancy there will be lark. 
the school frolic among pack trunk whoop down the corridor and gloat in form room receive the news with amazement and rage. no school in the world do prep. on the last night of the term. this thing be monstrous tyrannical subversive of law religion and morality. they would go into the form room and they would take their degrade holiday task with them but here they smile and speculate what manner of man the common room would send up against them. the lot fell on mason credulous and enthusiastic who love youth. no other master be anxious to take that prep. for the school lack the steady influence of tradition. and men accustom to the order routine of ancient foundation find it occasionally insubordinate. the four long form room in which all below the rank of study boy work receive him with thunder of applause. ere he have cough twice they favor him with a metrical summary of the marriage law of great britain a record by the high priest of the israelite and comment on by the leader of the host. the low form remind him that it be the last day and that therefore he must take it all in play. when he dash off to rebuke them the low fourth and upper third begin with one accord to be sick loudly and realistically. mr. mason try of all vain thing under heaven to argue with them and a bold soul at a back desk bid him take fifty line for not olding up be and before speak. a one who pride himself upon the perfection of his english this cut mason to the quick and while he be try to discover the offender the upper and low second three form room away turn out the gas and throw ink pot. it be a pleasant and stimulate prep. the study boy and prefect hear the echo of it far off and the common room at dessert smile. 
stalky wait watch in hand till half past eight. if it go on much long the head will come up say he. we ll tell the study first and then the dorm room. look sharp. 
he allow no time for beetle to be dramatic or mcturk to drawl. they pour into study after study tell their tale and go again so soon a they saw they be understand wait for no comment. while the noise of that unholy prep. grow and deepen. by the door of flint s study they meet mason fly towards the corridor. he s go to fetch the head. hurry up. come on. they break into number twelve form room abreast and pant. 
the head. the head. the head. that call still the tumult for a minute and stalky leap to a desk shout he go and suck the diphtheria stuff out of stettson major s throat when we think he be in town. stop rot you ass. stettson major would have croak if the head hadn t do it. the head might have die himself. crandall say it s the brave thing any livin man can do and i his voice crack the head don t know we know. 
mcturk and beetle jump from desk to desk drive the news home among the junior form. there be a pause and then mason behind him the head enter. it be in the establish order of thing that no boy should speak or move under his eye. he expect the hush of awe. he be receive with cheer steady ceaseless cheer. be a wise man he go away and the form be silent and a little frighten. 
it s all right say stalky. he can t do much. tisn t a if you d pull the desk up like we do when old carleton take prep. once. keep it up. hear em cheer in the study. he rocket out with a yell to find flint and the prefect lift the roof off the corridor. 
when the head of a limit liability company pay four per cent. be cheer on his saintly way to prayer not only by four form room of boy wait punishment but by his trust prefect he can either ask for an explanation or go his road with dignity while the senior house master glare like an excite cat and point out to a white and tremble mathematical master that certain method not his thank god usually produce certain result. out of delicacy the old boy do not attend that call over. and it be to the school draw up in the gymnasium that the head speak icily. 
it be not often that i do not understand you. but i confess i do not to night. some of you after your idiotic performance at prep. seem to think me a fit person to cheer. i be go to show you that i be not. 
crash crash crash come the triple cheer that disprove it and the head glower under the gas. that be enough. you will gain nothing. the little boy. the low school do not like that form of address. will do me three hundred line apiece in the holiday. i shall take no further notice of them. the upper school will do me one thousand line apiece in the holiday to be show up the even of the day they come back. and further. 
gummy what a glutton. stalky whisper. 
for your behavior towards mr. mason i intend to lick the whole of the upper school to morrow when i give you your journey money. this will include the three study boy i find dance on the form room desk when i come up. prefect will stay after call over. 
the school file out in silence but gather in group by the gymnasium door wait what might befall. 
and now flint say the head will you be good enough to give me some explanation of your conduct. 
well sir say flint desperately if you save a chap s life at the risk of your own when he s dyin of diphtheria and the coll. find it out wha what can you expect sir. 
um i see. then that noise be not mean for ah cheek. i can connive at immorality but i cannot stand impudence. however it doe not excuse their insolence to mr. mason. i ll forego the line this once remember. but the licking hold good. 
when this news be make public the school lose in wonder and admiration gasp at the head a he go to his house. here be a man to be reverence. on the rare occasion when he can he do it very scientifically and the execution of a hundred boy would be epic immense. 
it s all right head sahib. we know say crandall a the head slip off his gown with a grunt in his smoke room. i find out just now from our substitute. he be gettin my opinion of your performance last night in the dormitory. i didn t know then that it be you he be talkin about. crafty young animal. freckle chap with eye corkran i think his name be. 
oh i know him_ thank you say the head and reflectively. ye e i should have include them even if i hadn t see em. 
if the old coll. weren t a little above themselves already we d chair you down the corridor say the engineer. oh bat how could you. you might have catch it yourself and where would we have be then. 
i always know you be worth twenty of u any day. now i m sure of it say the squadron commander look round for contradiction. 
he isn t fit to manage a school though. promise you ll never do it again bat sahib. we we can t go away comfy in our mind if you take these risk say the gunner. 
bat sahib you aren t ever goin to cane the whole upper school be you. say crandall. 
i can connive at immorality a i say but i can t stand impudence. mason s lot be quite hard enough even when i back him. besides the men at the golf club hear them sing aaron and moses. i shall have complaint about that from the parent of day boy. decency must be preserve. 
we re come to help say all the guest. 
the upper school be can one after the other their overcoat over their arm the brake wait in the road below to take them to the station their journey money on the table. the head begin with stalky mcturk and beetle. he deal faithfully by them. 
and here s your journey money. good by and pleasant holiday. 
good by. thank you sir. good by. 
they shake hand. desire don t outrun performance much this mornin. we get the cream of it say stalky. now wait till a few chap come out and we ll really cheer him. 
don t wait on our account please say crandall speak for the old boy. we re go to begin now. 
it be very well so long a the cheer be confine to the corridor but when it spread to the gymnasium when the boy await their turn cheer the head give it up in despair and the remnant fling themselves upon him to shake hand. then they seriously devote themselves to cheer till the brake be hustle off the premise in dumb show. 
didn t i say i d get even with him. say stalky on the box seat a they swing into the narrow northam street. now all together takin time from your uncle stalky. it s a way we have in the army it s a way we have in the navy it s a way we have at the public school which nobody can deny. 
the flag of their country. 
it be winter and bitter cold of morning. consequently stalky and beetle mcturk be of the offensive type that make ornate toilet under all circumstance drowse till the last moment before turn out to call over in the gas light gymnasium. it follow that they be often late. and since every unpunctuality earn them a black mark and since three black mark a week mean defaulter drill equally it follow that they spend hour under the sergeant s hand. foxy drill the defaulter with all the pomp of his old parade grind. don t think it s any pleasure to me. his introduction never vary. i d much sooner be smoke a quiet pipe in my own quarter but i see we ave the old brigade on our ands this afternoon. if i only ad you regular muster corkran say he dress the line. 
you ve have me for nearly six week you old glutton. number off from the right. 
not quite so previous please. i m take this drill. leave half turn. slow march. twenty five sluggard all old offender file into the gymnasium. quietly provide yourselves with the requisite dumb bell. returnin quietly to your place. number off from the right in a low voice. odd number one pace to the front. even number stand fast. now leanin forward from the ip takin your time from me. 
the dumb bell rise and fell clash and be return a one. the boy be expert at the weary game. 
ve ry good. i shall be sorry when any of you resume your abits of punctuality. quietly return dumb bell. we will now try some simple drill. 
ugh. i know that simple drill. 
it would he ighly to your discredit if you do not muster corkran. at the same time it be not so easy a it look. 
bet you a bob i can drill a well a you foxy. 
we ll see late. now try to imagine you ain t defaulter at all but an arf company on parade me bein your commandin officer. there s no call to laugh. if you re lucky most of you will ave to take drill arf your life. do me a little credit. you ve be at it long enough goodness know. 
they be form into four march wheel and countermarch the spell of order motion strong on them. a foxy say they have be at it a long time. 
the gymnasium door open reveal mcturk in charge of an old gentleman. 
the sergeant lead a wheel do not see. not so bad he murmur. not arf so bad. the pivot man of the wheel honly mark time muster swayne. now muster corkran you say you know the drill. oblige me by takin over the command and reversin my word step by step relegate them to their previous formation. 
what s this. what s this. cry the visitor authoritatively. 
a a little drill sir stammer foxy say nothing of first cause. 
excellent excellent. i only wish there be more of it he chirrup. don t let me interrupt. you be just go to hand over to someone weren t you. 
he sit down breathe frostily in the chill air. i shall muck it. i know i shall whisper stalky uneasily. and his discomfort be not lighten by a murmur from the rear rank that the old gentleman be general collinson a member of the college board of council. 
eh what. say foxy. 
collinson k. c. b. he command the pompadour my father s old regiment hiss swayne major. 
take your time say the visitor. _i know how it feel. your first drill eh. 
yes sir. he draw an unhappy breath. tention. dress. the echo of his own voice restore his confidence. 
the wheel be face about fling back break into four and restore to line without a falter. the official hour of punishment be long pass but no one think of that. they be back up stalky stalky in deadly fear l his voice should crack. 
he doe you credit sergeant be the visitor s comment. a good drill and good material to drill. now it s an extraordinary thing. i ve be lunch with your head master and he never tell me you have a cadet corp in the college. 
we aven t sir. this be only a little drill say the sergeant. 
but aren t they keen on it. say mcturk speak for the first time with a twinkle in his deep set eye. 
why aren t you in it though willy. 
oh i m not punctual enough say mcturk. the sergeant only take the pick of u. 
dismiss. break off. cry foxy fear an explosion in the rank. i i ought to have tell you sir that. 
but you should have a cadet corp. the general pursue his own line of think. you shall have a cadet corp too if my recommendation in council be any use. i don t know when i ve be so please. boy animate by a spirit like yours should set an example to the whole school. 
they do say mcturk. 
bless my soul. can it be so late. i ve keep my fly wait half an hoar. well i must run away. nothing like see thing for one s self. which end of the building doe one get out at. will you show me willy. who be that boy who take the drill. 
corkran i think his name be. 
you ought to know him. that s the kind of boy you should cultivate. evidently an unusual sort. a wonderful sight. five and twenty boy who i dare say would much sooner be play cricket. it be the depth of winter. but grow people especially those who have live long in foreign part make these little error and mcturk do not correct him. drill for the sheer love of it. a shame to waste so much good stuff. but i think i can carry my point. 
an who s your friend with the white whisker. demand stalky on mcturk s return to the study. 
general collinson. he come over to shoot with my father sometimes. rather a decent old bargee too. he say i ought to cultivate your acquaintance stalky. 
do he tip you. mcturk exhibit a bless whole sovereign. 
ah say stalky annex it for he be treasurer. we ll have a hefty brew. you d pretty average cool cheek turkey to jaw about our keenness an punctuality. 
didn t the old boy know we be defaulter. say beetle. 
not him. he come down to lunch with the head. i find him pokin about the place on his own hook afterwards an i think i d show him the giddy drill. when i find he be so please i wasn t goin to damp his giddy ardor. he mightn t ha give me the quid if i have. 
wasn t old foxy please. do you see him get pink behind the ear. say beetle. it be an awful score for him. didn t we back him up beautifully. let s go down to keyte s and get some cocoa and sassingers. 
they overtake foxy speed down to retail the adventure to keyte who in his time have be troop sergeant major in a cavalry regiment and now war wear veteran be local postmaster and confectioner. 
you owe u something say stalky with mean. 
i m ighly grateful muster corkran. i ve ad to run against you pretty hard in the way o business now and then but i will say that outside o business bound an smokin an such like i don t wish to have a more trustworthy young gentleman to elp me out of a hole. the way you andled the drill be beautiful though i say it. now if you come regular henceforward. 
but he ll have to be late three time a week say beetle. you can t expect a chap to do that just to please you foxy. 
ah that s true. still if you could manage it and you muster beetle it would give you a big start when the cadet corp be form. i expect the general will recommend it. 
they raid keyte s very much at their own sweet will for the old man who know them well be deep in talk with foxy. i make what we ve take seven and six stalky call at last over the counter. but you d good count for yourself. 
no no. i d take your word any day muster corkran. in the pompadour be he sergeant. we lay with them once at umballa i think it be. 
i don t know whether this ham and tongue tin be eighteen penny or one an four. 
say one an fourpence muster corkran. of course sergeant if it be any use to give my time i d be please to do it but i m too old. i d like to see a drill again. 
oh come on stalky cry mcturk. he isn t listenin to you. chuck over the money. 
i want the quid change you as. keyte. private keyte. corporal keyte. terroop sergeant major keyte will you give me change for a quid. 
yes yes of course. seven an six. he star abstractedly push the silver over and melt away into the darkness of the back room. 
now those two ll jaw about the mutiny till tea time say beetle. 
old keyte be at sobraon say stalky. hear him talk about that sometimes. beat foxy hollow. 
the head s face inscrutable a ever be bend over a pile of letter. 
what do you think. he say at last to the reverend john gillett. 
it s a good idea. there s no deny that an estimable idea. 
we concede that much. well. 
i have my doubt about it that s all. the more i know of boy the le do i profess myself capable of follow their mood. but i own i shall be very much surprise if the scheme take. it it isn t the temper of the school. we prepare for the army. 
my business in this matter be to carry out the wish of the council. they demand a volunteer cadet corp. a volunteer cadet corp will be furnish. i have suggest however that we need not embark upon the expense of uniform till we be drill. general collinson be send u fifty lethal weapon cut down sniders he call them all carefully plug. 
yes that be necessary in a school that us load saloon pistol to the extent we do. the reverend john smile. 
therefore there will be no outlay except the sergeant s time. 
but if he fail you will be blame. 
oh assuredly. i shall post a notice in the corridor this afternoon and. 
i shall watch the result. 
kindly keep your ands off the new arm rack. foxy wrestle with a turbulent crowd in the gymnasium. nor it win t do even a condemn snide any good to be continual snappin the lock mr. swayne. yi the uniform will come late when we re more proficient. at present we will confine ourselves to drill. i be ere for the purpose o takin the name o those willin to join. put down that snide muster hogan. 
what be you goin to do beetle. say a voice. 
i ve have all the drill i want thank you. 
what. after all you ve learn. come on. don t be a scab. they ll make you corporal in a week cry stalky. 
i m not goin up for the army. beetle touch his spectacle. 
hold on a shake foxy say hogan. where be you goin to drill u. 
here in the gym till you be fit an capable to be take out on the road. the sergeant throw a chest. 
for all the northam cad to look at. not good enough foxibus. 
well we win t make a point of it. you learn your drill first an late we ll see. 
hullo say ansell of macrea s shoulder through the mob. what s all this about a giddy cadet corp. 
it will save you a lot o time at sandburst the sergeant reply promptly. you ll be dismiss your drill early if you go up with a good groundin before and. 
hm. don t mind learnin my drill but i m not goin to as about the country with a toy snide. perowne what be you goin to do. hogan s joinin. 
don t know whether i ve the time say perowne. i ve get no end of extra tu a it be. 
well call this extra tu say ansell. twon t take u long to mug up the drill. 
oh that s right enough but what about marchin in public. say hogan not foresee that three year late he should die in the burmese sun light outside minhla fort. 
afraid the uniform win t suit your creamy complexion. mcturk ask with a villainous sneer. 
shut up turkey. you aren t goin up for the army. 
no but i m goin to send a substitute. hi. morrell an wake. you two fag by the arm rack you ve get to volunteer. 
blush deeply they have be too shy to apply before the youngster sidle towards the sergeant. 
but i don t want the little chap not at first say the sergeant disgustedly. i want i d like some of the old brigade the defaulter to stiffen em a bite. 
don t be ungrateful sergeant. they re nearly a big a you get em in the army now. mcturk read the paper of those year and could be trust for general information which he use a he use his tweaker. yet he do not know that wake minor would be a bimbashi of the egyptian army ere his thirtieth year. 
hogan swayne stalky perowne and ansell be deep in consultation by the vault horse stalky a usual lay down the law. the sergeant watch them uneasily know that many wait on their lead. 
foxy don t like my recruit say mcturk in a pain tone to beetle. you get him some. 
nothing loath beetle pinion two more fag each no tall than a carbine. here you be foxy. here s food for powder. strike for your hearth an home you young brute an be jolly quick about it. 
still he isn t happy say mcturk. 
for the way we have with our army be the way we have with our navy. 
here beetle join in. they have find the poem in an old volume of punch and it seem to cover the situation. 
an both of em lead to adversity which nobody can deny. 
you be quiet young gentleman. if you can t elp don t inder. foxy s eye be still on the council by the horse. carter white and tyrrell all boy of influence have join it. the rest finger the rifle irresolutely. wait a shake cry stalky. can t we turn out those rotter before we get to work. 
certainly say foxy. any one wishful to join will stay ere. those who do not so intend will go out quietly closin the door be ind em. 
half a dozen of the earnest mind rush at them and they have just time to escape into the corridor. 
well why don t you join. beetle ask resettle his collar. 
why didn t you. 
what s the good. we aren t goin up for the army. besides i know the drill all except the manual of course. wonder what they re doin inside. 
makin a treaty with foxy. didn t you hear stalky say. that s what we ll do an if he don t like it he can lump it. they ll use foxy for a cram. can t you see you idiot. they re goin up for sandhurst or the shop in le than a year. they ll learn their drill an then they ll drop it like a shoot. d you suppose chap with their amount of extra tu be takin up volunteerin for fun. 
well i don t know. i think of doin a poem about it rottin em you know the ballad of the dogshooters eh. 
i don t think you can because king ll be down on the corp like a cartload o brick. he hasn t be consult he s sniffin round the notice board now. let s lure him. they stroll up carelessly towards the honse master a most meek couple. 
how s this. say king with a start of feign surprise. methought you would be learn to fight for your country. 
i think the company s full sir say mcturk. 
it s a great pity sigh beetle. 
forty valiant defender have we then. how noble. what devotion. i presume that it be possible that a desire to evade their normal responsibility may be at the bottom of this zeal. doubtless they will be accord special privilege like the choir and the natural history society one must not say bug hunter. 
oh i suppose so sir say mcturk cheerily. the head hasn t say anything about it yet but he will of course. 
oh sure to. 
it be just possible my beetle king wheel on the last speaker that the house master a necessary but somewhat neglect factor in our humble scheme of existence may have a word to say on the matter. life for the young at least be not all weapon and munition of war. education be incidentally one of our aim. 
what a consistent pig he be coo mcturk when they be out of earshot. one always know where to have him. do you see how he rise to that draw about the head and special privilege. 
confound him he might have have the decency to have back the scheme. i could do such a lovely ballad rottin it. and now i ll have to be a giddy enthusiast. it don t bar our pull stalky s leg in the study doe it. 
oh no. but in the coll. we must be pro cadet corp like anything. can t you make up a giddy epigram a la catullus_ about king objectin to it. beetle be at this noble task when stalky return all hot from his first drill. 
hullo my ramrod bunger. begin mcturk. where s your dead dog. be it defence or defiance. 
defiance say stalky and leap on him at that word. look here turkey you mustn t rot the corp. we ve arrange it beautifully. foxy swear he win t take u out into the open till we say we want to go. 
_dis gustin exhibition of immature infant apin the idiosyncrasy of their elder. snff. 
have you draw king beetle. stalky ask in a pause of the scuffle. 
not exactly. but that s his genial style. 
well listen to your uncle stalky who be a great man. moreover and subsequently foxy s goin to let u drill the corp in turn privatim et seriatim so that we ll all know how to handle a half company anyhow. ergo_ an propter hoc_ when we go to the shop we shall be dismiss drill early. thus my beloved earers combinin education with wholesome amusement. 
i know you d make a sort of extra tu of it you cold blood brute say mcturk. don t you want to die for your giddy country. 
not if i can jolly well avoid it. so you mustn t rot the corp. 
we d decide on that year ago say beetle scornfully. king ll do the rottin. 
then you ve get to rot king my giddy poet. make up a good catchy limerick and let the fag sing it. 
look here you stick to volunteerin and don t jog the table. 
he win t have anything to take hold of say stalky with dark significance. 
they do not know what that mean till a few day late they propose to watch the corp at drill. they find the gymnasium door lock and a fag on guard. this be sweet cheek say mcturk stoop. 
mustn t look through the key hole say the sentry. 
i like that. why wake you little beast i make you a volunteer. 
can t help it. my order be not to allow any one to look. 
s pose we do. say mcturk. s pose we jolly well slay you. 
my order be i be to give the name of anybody who interfere with me on my post to the corp an they d deal with him after drill accordin to martial law. 
what a brute stalky be. say beetle. they never doubt for a moment who have devise that scheme. 
you esteem yourself a giddy centurion don t you. say beetle listen to the crash and rattle of ground arm within. 
my ordcrs be not to talk except to explain my order they ll lick me if i do. 
mcturk look at beetle. the two shake their head and turn away. 
i swear stalky be a great man say beetle after a long pause. one consolation be that this sort of secret society biznai will drive king wild. 
it trouble many more than king but the member of the corp be mute than oyster. foxy be bind by no vow carry his woe to keyte. 
i never come across such nonsense in my life. they ve tile the lodge inner and out guard all complete and then they get to work keen a mustard. 
but what s it all for. ask the ex troop sergeant major. 
to learn their drill. you never saw anything like it. they begin after i ve dismiss em practisin trick. but out into the open they will not come not for ever so. the ole thing be pre posterous. if you re a cadet corp i say be a cadet corp instead o hidin be ind lock door. 
and what do the authority say about it. 
that beat me again. the sergeant speak fretfully. i go to the ead an e give me no help. there s time when i think he s makin fun o me. i ve never be a volunteer sergeant thank god but i ve always have the consideration to pity em. i m glad o that. 
i d like to see em say keyte. from your statement sergeant i can t get at what they re after. 
don t ask me major. ask that freckle face young corkran. he s their generalissimo. 
one doe not refuse a warrior of sobraon or deny the only pastry cook within bound. so keyte come by invitation lean upon a stick tremulous with old age to sit in a corner and watch. 
they shape well. they shape uncommon well he whisper between evolution. 
oh this isn t what they re after. wait till i dismiss em. 
at the break off the rank stand fast. perowne fell out face them and refresh his memory by glimpse at a red bind metal clasp book drill them for ten minute. this be that perowne who be shoot in equatorial africa by his own men. ansell follow him and hogan follow ansell. all three be implicitly obey. then stalky lay aside his snide and draw a long breath favor the company with a blast of wither invective. 
old ard muster corkran. that ain t in any drill cry foxy. 
all right sergeant. you never know what you may have to say to your men. for pity s sake try to stand up without leanin against each other you blear eye herrin gutted gutter snipe. it s no pleasure to me to comb you out. that ought to have be do before you come here you you militia broom stealer. 
the old touch the old touch. we know it say keyte wipe his rheumy eye. but where do he pick it up. 
from his father or his uncle. don t ask me. half of em must have be bear within earshot o the barrack. foxy be not far wrong in his guess. i ve hear more back talk since this volunteerin nonsense begin than i ve hear in a year in the service. 
there s a rear rank man lookin a though his belly be in the pawn shop. yes you private ansell and stalky tongue lash the victim for three minute in gross and in detail. 
hullo. he return to his normal tone. first blood to me. you flush ansell. you wriggle. 
couldn t help flush be the answer. don t think i wriggle though. 
well it s your turn now. stalky resume his place in the rank. 
lord lord. it s a good a a play chuckle the attentive keyte. ansell too have be bless with relative in the service and slowly in a lazy drawl his style be more reflective than stalky s descend the abysmal depth of personality. 
blood to me. he shout triumphantly. you couldn t stand it either. stalky be a rich red and his snide shake visibly. 
i didn t think i would he say struggle for composure but after a bite i get in no end of a bait. curious ain t it. 
good for the temper say the slow move hogan a they return arm to the rack. 
do you ever. say foxy hopelessly to keyte. 
i don t know much about volunteer but it s the rummiest show i ever saw. i can see what they re gettin at though. lord. how often i ve be tell off an dress down in my day. they shape well extremely well they shape. 
if i could get em out into the open there s nothing i couldn t do with em major. perhaps when the uniform come down they ll change their mind. 
indeed it be time that the corp make some concession to the curiosity of the school. thrice have the guard be maltreat and thrice have the corp deal out martial law to the offender. the school rag. what be the use they ask of a cadet corp which none might see. mr. king congratulate them on their invisible defender and they could not parry his thrust. foxy be grow sullen and restive. a few of the corp express openly doubt a to the wisdom of their course. and the question of uniform loom on the near horizon. if these be issue they would be force to wear them. 
but a so often happen in this life the matter be suddenly settle from without. 
the head have duly inform the council that their recommendation have be act upon and that so far a he could learn the buy be drill. he say nothing of the term on which they drill. naturally general collinson be delight and tell his friend. one of his friend rejoice in a friend a member of parliament a zealous an intelligent and above all a patriotic person anxious to do the most good in the short possible time. but we cannot answer ala. for the friend of our friend. if collinson s friend have introduce him to the general the latter would have take his measure and save much. but the friend merely speak of his friend. and since no two people in the world see eye to eye the picture convey to collinson be inaccurate. moreover the man be an m. p. an impeccable conservative and the general have the english soldier s lurk respect for any member of the court of last appeal. he be go down into the west country to spread light in somebody s benight constituency. wouldn t it be a good idea if arm with the general s recommendation he take the admirable and newly establish cadet corp for his text speak a few word just talk to the boy a little eh. you know the kind of thing that would be acceptable. and he d be the very man to do it. the sort of talk that boy understand you know. 
they didn t talk to em much in my time say the general suspiciously. 
ah. but time change with the spread of education and so on. the boy of to day be the men of to morrow. an impression in youth be likely to be permanent. and in these time you know with the country go to the dog. 
you re quite right. the island be then enter on five year of mr. gladstone s rule. and the general do not like what he have see of it. he would certainly write to the head for it be beyond question that the boy of to day make the men of to morrow. that if he might say so be uncommonly well put. 
in reply the head state that he should be delight to welcome mr. raymond martin m. p. of whom he have hear so much. to put him up for the night and to allow him to address the school on any subject that he conceive would interest them. if mr. martin have not yet face an audience of this particular class of british youth the head have no doubt that he would find it an interest experience. 
and i don t think i be very far wrong in that last he confide to the reverend john. do you happen to know anything of one raymond martin. 
i be at college with a man of that name the chaplain reply. he be without form and void so far a i remember but desperately earnest. 
he will address the coll. on patriotism next saturday. 
if there be one thing our boy detest more than another it be have their saturday evening break into. patriotism ha no chance beside brew. 
nor art either. d you remember our even with shakespeare. the head s eye twinkle. or the humorous gentleman with the magic lantern. 
an who the dooce be this raymond martin m. p. demand beetle when he read the notice of the lecture in the corridor. why do the brute always turn up on a saturday. 
ouh. reomeo reomeo. wherefore art thou reomeo. say mcturk over his shoulder quote the shakespeare artiste of last term. well he win t be a bad a her_ i hope. stalky be you properly patriotic. because if you ain t this chap s goin to make you. 
hope he win t take up the whole of the even. i suppose we ve get to listen to him. 
wouldn t miss him for the world say mcturk. a lot of chap think that romeo romeo woman be a bore. i didn t. i like her. member when she begin to hiccough in the middle of it. p rap he ll hiccough. whoever get into the gym first bag seat for the other two. 
there be no nervousness but a brisk and cheery affability about mr. raymond martin m. p. a he drive up watch by many eye to the head s house. 
look a bite of a bargee be mcturk s comment. shouldn t be surprise if he be a radical. he row the driver about the fare. i hear him. 
that be his giddy patriotism beetle explain. after tea they join the rush for seat secure a private and invisible corner and begin to criticise. every gas jet be light. on the little dais at the far end stand the head s official desk whence mr. martin would discourse and a ring of chair for the master. 
enter then foxy with official port and lean something like a cloth roll round a stick against the desk. no one in authority be yet present so the school applaud cry. what s that foxy. what be you stealin the gentleman s brolly for. we don t birch here. we cane. take away that bauble. number off from the right and so forth till the entry of the head and the master end all demonstration. 
one good job the common room hate this a much a we do. watch king wrigglin to get out of the draft. 
where s the raymondiferous martin. punctuality my beloved earers be the image o war. 
shut up. here s the giddy dook. golly what a dewlap. mr. martin in even dress be undeniably throaty a tall generously design pink and white man. still beetle need not have be coarse. 
look at his back while he s talkin to the head. vile bad form to turn your back on the audience. he s a philistine a bopper a jebusite an a hivite. mcturk lean back and sniff contemptuously. 
in a few colorless word the head introduce the speaker and sit down amid applause. when mr. martin take the applause to himself they naturally applaud more than ever. it be some time before he could begin. he have no knowledge of the school it tradition or heritage. he do not know that the last census show that eighty per cent. of the boy have be bear abroad in camp cantonment or upon the high sea. or that seventy five per cent. be son of officer in one or other of the service willoughbys paulets de castro maynes randalls after their kind look to follow their father profession. the head might have tell him this and much more. but after an hour long dinner in his company the head decide to say nothing whatever. mr. raymond martin seem to know so much already. 
he plunge into his speech with a long draw rasp well boy that though they be not conscious of it set every young nerve ajar. he suppose they know hey. what he have come down for. it be not often that he have an opportunity to talk to boy. he suppose that boy be very much the same kind of person some people think them rather funny person a they have be in his youth. 
this man say mcturk with conviction be the gadarene swine. 
but they must remember that they would not always be boy. they would grow up into men because the boy of to day make the men of to morrow and upon the men of to morrow the fair fame of their glorious native land depend. 
if this go on my beloved earers it will be my painful duty to rot this bargee. stalky draw a long breath through his nose. 
can t do that say mcturk. he ain t chargin anything for his romeo. 
and so they ought to think of the duty and responsibility of the life that be open before them. life be not all he enumerate a few game and that nothing might be lack to the sweep and impact of his fall add marble. yes life be not he say all marble. 
there be one tense gasp among the junior almost a shriek of quiver horror he be a heathen an outcast beyond the extreme pale of toleration self damn before all men. stalky bow his head in his hand. mcturk with a bright and cheerful eye drink in every word and beetle nod solemn approval. 
some of them doubtless expect in a few year to have the honor of a commission from the queen and to wear a sword. now he himself have have some experience of these duty a a major in a volunteer regiment and he be glad to learn that they have establish a volunteer corp in their midst. the establishment of such an establishment conduce to a proper and healthy spirit which if foster would be of great benefit to the land they love and be so proud to belong to. some of those now present expect he have no doubt some of them anxiously look forward to lead their men against the bullet of england s foe. to confront the stricken field in all the pride of their youthful manhood. 
now the reserve of a boy be tenfold deep than the reserve of a maid she be make for one end only by blind nature but man for several. with a large and healthy hand he tear down these veil and trample them under the well intentioned foot of eloquence. in a raucous voice he cry aloud little matter like the hope of honor and the dream of glory that boy do not discus even with their most intimate equal cheerfully assume that till he speak they have never consider these possibility. he point them to shin goal with finger which smudge out all radiance on all horizon. he profane the most secret place of their soul with outcry and gesticulation he bid them consider the deed of their ancestor in such a fashion that they be flush to their tingle ear. some of them the rend voice cut a freeze stillness might have have relative who perish in defence of their country. they think not a few of them of an old sword in a passage or above a breakfast room table see and finger by stealth since they could walk. he adjure them to emulate those illustrious example. and they look all way in their extreme discomfort. 
their year forbid them even to shape their thought clearly to themselves. they felt savagely that they be be outrage by a fat man who consider marble a game. 
and so he work towards his peroration which by the way he use late with overwhelm success at a meet of elector while they sit flush and uneasy in sour disgust. after many many word he reach for the cloth wrap stick and thrust one hand in his bosom. this this be the concrete symbol of their land worthy of all honor and reverence. let no boy look on this flag who do not purpose to worthily add to it imperishable lustre. he shake it before them a large calico union jack star in all three color and wait for the thunder of applause that should crown his effort. 
they look in silence. they have certainly see the thing before down at the coastguard station or through a telescope half mast high when a brig go ashore on braunton sand. above the roof of the golf club and in keyte s window where a certain kind of strip sweetmeat bore it in paper on each box. but the college never display it. it be no part of the scheme of their life. the head have never allude to it. their father have not declare it unto them. it be a matter shut up sacred and apart. what in the name of everything caddish be he drive at who wave that horror before their eye. happy think. perhaps he be drink. 
the head save the situation by rise swiftly to propose a vote of thank and at his first motion the school clap furiously from a sense of relief. 
and i be sure he conclude the gaslight full on his face that you will all join me in a very hearty vote of thank to mr. raymond martin for the most enjoyable address he ha give u. 
to this day we shall never know the right of the case. the head vow that he do no such thing. or that if he do it must have be something in his eye. but those who be present be persuade that he wink once openly and solemnly after the word enjoyable. mr. raymond martin get his applause full tale. a he say without vanity i think my few word go to their heart. i never know boy could cheer like that. 
he leave a the prayer bell ring and the boy line up against the wall. the flag lay still unroll on the desk foxy regard it with pride for he have be touch to the quick by mr. martin s eloquence. the head and the common room stand back on the dais could not see the glare offence but a prefect leave the line roll it up swiftly and a swiftly toss it into a glove and foil locker. 
then a though he have touch a spring break out the low murmur of content change to quick volley hand clap. 
they discuss the speech in the dormitory. there be not one dissentient voice. mr. raymond martin beyond question be bear in a gutter and breed in a board school where they play marble. he be further. i give the bare handful from great store. a flopshus cad an outrageous stinker a jelly belly flag flapper. this be stalky s contribution. and several other thing which it be not seemly to put down. 
the volunteer cadet corp fell in next monday depressedly with a face of shame. even then judicious silence might have turn the corner. 
say foxy. after a fine speech like what you eard night before last you ought to take old of your drill with re newed activity. i don t see how you can avoid comin out an marchin in the open now. 
can t we get out of it then foxy. stalky s fine old silky tone should have warn him. 
no not with his give the flag so generously. he tell me before he leave this morning that there be no objection to the corp usin it a their own. it s a handsome flag. 
stalky return his rifle to the rack in dead silence and fell out. his example be follow by hogan and ansell. perowne hesitate. look here oughtn t we. he begin. 
i ll get it out of the locker in a minute say the sergeant his back turn. then we can. 
come on. shout stalky. what the devil be you wait for. dismiss. break off. 
why what the where the. 
the rattle of sniders slam into the rack drown his voice a boy after boy fell out. 
i i don t know that i shan t have to report this to the head he stammer. 
report then and be damn to you cry stalky white to the lip and run out. 
rummy thing. say beetle to mcturk. i be in the study doin a simply lovely poem about the jelly belly flag flapper an stalky come in an i say hullo. an he curse me like a bargee and then he begin to blub like anything. shove his head on the table and howl. hadn t we good do something. 
mcturk be trouble. p rap he s smash himself up somehow. 
they find him with very bright eye whistle between his teeth. 
do i take you in beetle. i think i would. wasn t it a good draw. didn t you think i be blubbin. didn t i do it well. oh you fat old as. and he begin to pull beetle s ear and check in the fashion that be call milk. 
i know you be blubbin beetle reply composedly. why aren t you at drill. 
drill. what drill. 
don t try to be a clever fool. drill in the gym. 
cause there isn t any. the volunteer cadet corp be break up disband dead putrid corrupt stinkin. an if you look at me like that beetle i ll slay you too. oh yes an i m goin to be report to the head for swearin. 
the last term. 
it be within a few day of the holiday the term end examination and more important still the issue of the college paper which beetle edit. he have be cajole into that office by the blandishment of stalky and mcturk and the extreme rigor of study law. once instal he discover a others have do before him that his duty be to do the work while his friend criticize. stalky christen it the swillingford patriot in pious memory of sponge and mcturk compare the output unfavorably with ruskin and de quincey. only the head take an interest in the publication and his method be peculiar. he give beetle the run of his brown bind tobacco scent library. prohibit nothing recommend nothing. there beetle find a fat arm chair a silver inkstand and unlimited pen and paper. there be score and score of ancient dramatist. there be hakluyt his voyage. french translation of muscovite author call pushkin and lermontoff. little tale of a heady and bewilder nature intersperse with unusual song peacock be that writer s name. there be borrow s lavengro. an odd theme purport to be a translation of something call a ruba iyat which the head say be a poem not yet come to it own. there be hundred of volume of verse crashaw. dryden. alexander smith. l. e. l. lydia sigourney. fletcher and a purple island. donne. marlowe s faust. and this make mcturk. to whom beetle convey it. sheer drink for three day ossian. the earthly paradise. atalanta in calydon. and rossetti to name only a few. then the head drift in under pretense of play censor to the paper would read here a verse and here another of these poet open up avenue. and slow breathe with half shut eye above his cigar would he speak of great men live and journal long dead found in their riotous youth. of year when all the planet be little new light star try to find their place in the uncaring void and he the head know them a young men know one another. so the regular work go to the dog beetle be full of other matter and meter hoard in secret and only tell to mcturk of an afternoon on the sand walk high and disposedly round the wreck of the armada galleon shout and declaim against the long ridge sea. 
thank in large part to their house master s experience distrust the three for three consecutive term have be pass over for promotion to the rank of prefect an office that go by merit and carry with it the honor of the grind ash and liberty under restriction to use it. 
_but_ say stalky come to think of it we ve do more giddy jest with the sixth since we ve be pass over than any one else in the last seven year. 
he touch his neck proudly. it be encircle by the stiff of stick up collar which custom decree could be wear only by the sixth. and the sixth saw those collar and say no word. pussy abanazar or dick four of a year ago would have see them discard in five minute or. but the sixth of that term be make up mostly of young but brilliantly clever boy pet of the house master too anxious for their dignity to care to come to open odds with the resourceful three. so they cram their cap at the extreme back of their head instead of a trifle over one eye a the fifth should and rejoice in patent leather boot on week day and marvellous make up tie on sunday no man rebuke. mcturk be go up for cooper s hill and stalky for sandhurst in the spring. and the head have tell them both that unless they absolutely collapse during the holiday they be safe. a a trainer of colt the head seldom err in an estimate of form. 
he have take beetle aside that day and give him much good advice not one word of which do beetle remember when he dash up to the study white with excitement and pour out the wondrous tale. it demand a great belief. 
you begin on a hundred a year. say mcturk unsympathetically. rot. 
and my passage out. it s all settle. the head say he s be break me in for this for ever so long and i never know i never know. one don t begin with write straight off y know. begin by fill in telegram and cut thing out o paper with scissor. 
oh scissor. what an ungodly mess you ll make of it say stalky. but anyhow this will be your last term too. seven year my dearly beloved earers though not prefect. 
not half bad year either say mcturk. i shall be sorry to leave the old coll. shan t you. 
they look out over the sea cream along the pebbleridge in the clear winter light. wonder where we shall all be this time next year. say stalky absently. 
this time five year say mcturk. 
oh say beetle my leavin s between ourselves. the head hasn t tell any one. i know he hasn t because prout grunt at me to day that if i be more reasonable yah. i might be a prefect next term. i s ppose he s hard up for his prefect. 
let s finish up with a row with the sixth suggest mcturk. 
dirty little schoolboy. say stalky who already saw himself a sandhurst cadet. what s the use. 
moral effect quoth mcturk. leave an imperishable tradition and all the rest of it. 
good go into bideford an pay up our debt say stalky. i ve get three quid out of my father ad hoc. don t owe more than thirty bob either. cut along beetle and ask the head for leave. say you want to correct the swillingford patriot. 
well i do say beetle. it ll be my last issue and i d like it to look decent. i ll catch him before he go to his lunch. 
ten minute late they wheel out in line by grace release from five o clock call over and all the afternoon lay before them. so also unluckily do king who never pass without witticism. but brigade of king could not have ruffle beetle that day. 
aha. enjoy the study of light literature my friend say he rub his hand. common mathematics be not for such soar mind a yours be they. 
one hundred a year think beetle smile into vacancy. 
our open incompetence take refuge in the flowery path of inaccurate fiction. but a day of reckon approach beetle mine. i myself have prepare a few trifle foolish question in latin prose which can hardly be evade even by your practise act of deception. ye e latin prose. i think if i may say so but we shall see when the paper be set ulpian serf your need. aha. elucescebat_ quoth our friend. we shall see. we shall see. 
still no sign from beetle. he be on a steamer his passage pay into the wide and wonderful world a thousand league beyond lundy island. 
king drop him with a snarl. 
he doesn t know. he ll go on correctin exercise an jawin an showin off before the little boy next term and next. beetle hurry after his companion up the steep path of the furze clothe hill behind the college. 
they be throw pebble on the top of the gasometer and the grimy gas man in change bid them desist. they watch him oil a turncock sink in the grind between two furze bush. 
cokey what s that for. say stalky. 
to turn the gas on to the kitchen say cokey. if so be i didn t turn her on yeou young gen lemen ud be larnin your book by candlelight. 
um. say stalky and be silent for at least a minute. 
hullo. where be you chap go. a bend of the lane bring them face to face with tulke senior prefect of king s house a smallish white haired boy of the type that must be promote on account of it intellect and ever afterwards appeal to the head to support it authority when zeal ha outrun discretion. 
the three take no sort of notice. they be on lawful pas. tulke repeat his question hotly for he have suffer many slight from number five study and fancy that he have at last catch them trip. 
what the devil be that to you. stalky reply with his sweet smile. 
look here i m not goin i m not goin to be swear at by the fifth. sputter tulke. 
then cut along and call a prefect meet say mcturk know tulke s weakness. 
the prefect become inarticulate with rage. 
mustn t yell at the fifth that way say stalky. it s vile bad form. 
cough it up ducky. mcturk say calmly. 
i i want to know what you chap be do out of bound. this with an important flourish of his grind ash. 
ah say stalky. now we re gettin at it. why didn t you ask that before. 
well i ask it now. what be you do. 
we re admire you tulke say stalky. we think you re no end of a fine chap don t we. 
we do. we do. a dog cart with some girl in it sweep round the corner and stalky promptly kneel before tulke in the attitude of prayer. so tulke turn a color. 
i ve reason to believe he begin. 
oyez. oyez. oyez. shout beetle after the manner of bideford s town crier tulke ha reason to believe. three cheer for tulke. 
they be give. it s all our giddy admiration say stalky. you know how we love you tulke. we love you so much we think you ought to go home and die. you re too good to live tulke. 
yes say mcturk. do oblige u by dyin. think how lovely you d look stuff. 
tulke sweep up the road with an unpleasant glare in his eye. 
that mean a prefect meet sure pop say stalky. honor of the sixth involve and all the rest of it. tulke ll write note all this afternoon and carson will call u up after tea. they daren t overlook that. 
bet you a bob he follow u. say mcturk. he s king s pet and it s scalp to both of em if we re catch out. we must be virtuous. 
then i move we go to mother yeo s for a last gorge. we owe her about ten bob and mary ll weep sore when she know we re leave say beetle. 
she give me an awful wipe on the head last time mary say stalky. 
she doe if you don t duck say mcturk. but she generally kiss one back. let s try mother yeo. 
they seek a little bottle windowed half dairy half restaurant a dark brew two hundred year old house at the head of a narrow side street. they have patronize it from the day of their fagdom and be very much friend at home. 
we ve come to pay our debt mother say stalky slide his arm round the fifty six inch waist of the mistress of the establishment. to pay our debt and say good by and and we re awf ly hungry. 
aie. say mother yeo makkin love to me. i m shaamed of ee. 
rackon u wouldn t du no such thing if mary be here say mcturk lapse into the broad north devon that the boy use on their campaign. 
who m takin my name in vain. the inner door open and mary fair haired blue eye and apple check enter with a bowl of cream in her band. mcturk kiss her. beetle follow suit with exemplary calm. both boy be promptly cuff. 
niver kiss the maid when e can kiss the mistress say stalky shamelessly wink at mother yeo a he investigate a shelf of jam. 
glad to see one of ee don t want his head slap no more. say mary invitingly in that direction. 
neu. reckon i can get em give me say stalky his back turn. 
not by me yeou little masterpiece. 
niver ask ee. there s maid to northam. yi an appledore. an unreproducible sniff half contempt half reminiscence round the retort. 
aie. yeou win t niver come to no good end. whutt be baout smellin the cream. 
tee bad say stalky. zmell un. 
incautiously mary do a she be bid. 
bidevoor kiss. 
niver amiss say stalky take it without injury. 
yeou yeou yeou mary begin bubble with mirth. 
they m good to northam more rich laike an u get them give back again he say while mcturk solemnly waltz mother yeo out of breath and beetle tell mary the sad news a they sit down to clot cream jam and hot bread. 
yi. yeou ll niver zee u no more mary. we re goin to be passons an missioner. 
steady the buff. say mcturk look through the blind. tulke ha follow u. he s comin up the street now. 
they ve niver put u out o bound say mother yeo. bide yeou still my little dearrs. she roll into the inner room to make the score. 
mary say stalky suddenly with tragic intensity. do ee lov me mary. 
i fai. talled ee zo since yeou be zo high. the damsel reply. 
zee un comin up street then. stalky point to the unconscious tulke. he ve niver be kiss by no sort or manner o maid in hees borned laife mary. oh tee shaamful. 
whutt s to do with me. twill come to un in the way o nature i rackon. she nod her head sagaciously. you niver want me to kiss un sure ly. 
give ee half a crown if ee will say stalky exhibit the coin. 
half a crown be much to mary yeo and a jest be more. but. 
yeu m afraid say mcturk at the psychological moment. 
aie. beetle echo know her weak point. there s not a maid to northam ud think twice. an yeou such a fine maid tu. 
mcturk plant one foot firmly against the inner door l mother yeo should return inopportunely for mary s face be set. it be then that tulke find his way block by a tall daughter of devon that county of easy kiss the pleasant under the sun. he dodge aside politely. she reflect a moment and lay a vast hand upon his shoulder. 
where be ee gwaine tu my dearr. say she. 
over the handkerchief he have cram into his mouth stalky could see the boy turn scarlet. 
gie i a kiss. don t they larn ee manner to college. 
tulke gasp and wheel. solemnly and conscientiously mary kiss him twice and the luckless prefect flee. 
she step into the shop her eye full of simple wonder. kiss un. say stalky hand over the money. 
i fai. but oh my little body he m no colleger. zeemed tu mind to cry like. 
well we win t. yell couldn t make u cry that way say mcturk. try. 
whereupon mary cuff them all round. 
a they go out with tingle ear say stalky generally don t think there ll be much of a prefect meet. 
win t there just. say beetle. look here. if he kiss her which be our tack he be a cynically immoral hog and his conduct be blatant indecency. confer orationes regis furiosissimi_ when he collar me readin don juan. 
course he kiss her say mcturk. in the middle of the street. with his house cap on. 
time. p. m. make a note o that. what d you mean beetle. say stalky. 
well. he s a truthful little beast. he may say he be kiss. 
and then. 
why then. beetle caper at the mere think of it. don t you see. the corollary to the giddy proposition be that the sixth can t protect emselves from outrage an ravishin s. want nursemaid to look after em. we ve only get to whisper that to the coll. jam for the sixth. jam for u. either way it s jammy. 
by gum. say stalky. our last term s endin well. now you cut along an finish up your old rag and turkey and me will help. we ll go in the back way. no need to bother randall. 
don t play the giddy garden goat then. beetle know what help mean though he be by no mean averse to show his importance before his ally. the little loft behind randall s print office be his own territory where he saw himself already control the time. here under the guidance of the inky apprentice he have learn to find his way more or le circuitously about the case and consider himself an expert compositor. 
the school paper in it lock form lay on a stone top table a proof by the side. but not for world would beetle have correct from the mere proof. with a mallet and a pair of tweezer he knock out mysterious wedge of wood that release the forme pick a letter here and insert a letter there read a he go along and stop much to chuckle over his own contribution. 
you win t show off like that say mcturk when you ve get to do it for your live. upside down and backwards isn t it. let s see if i can read it. 
get out. say beetle. go and read those form in the rack there if you think you know so much. 
form in a rack. what s that. don t be so beastly professional. 
mcturk draw off with stalky to prowl about the office. they leave little unturned. 
come here a shake beetle. what s this thing. aid stalky in a few minute. look familiar. 
say beetle after a glance. it s king s latin prose exam. paper. in in varrem. actio prima. what a lark. 
think o the pure souled high mind boy who d give their eye for a squint at it. say mcturk. 
no willie dear say stalky. that would be wrong and painful to our kind teacher. you wouldn t crib willie would you. 
can t read the beastly stuff anyhow be the reply. besides we re leavin at the end o the term so it make no difference to u. 
member what the considerate bloomer do to spraggon s account of the puffin ton hound. we must sugar mr. king s milk for him say stalky all light from within by a devilish joy. let s see what beetle can do with those forceps he s so proud of. 
don t see now you can make latin prose much more cock eye than it be but we ll try say beetle transpose an aliud and asiae from two sentence. let s see. we ll put that full stop a little further on and begin the sentence with the next capital. hurrah. here s three line that can move up all in a lump. 
one of those scientific rest for which this eminent huntsman be so justly celebrate. stalky know the puffington run by heart. 
hold on. here s a vol voluntate quidnam all by itself say mcturk. 
i ll attend to her in a shake. quidnam go after dolabella. 
good old dolabella murmur stalky. don t break him. vile prose cicero write didn t he. he ought to be grateful for. 
hullo. say mcturk over another forme. what price a giddy ode. qui quis oh it s quis multa gracilis_ o course. 
bring it along. we ve sugar the milk here say stalky after a few minute zealous toil. never thrash your hound unnecessarily. 
_quis munditiis. i swear that s not bad begin beetle ply the tweezer. don t that interrogation look pretty. heu quoties fidem. that sound a if the chap be anxious an excite. cui flavam religas in rosa whose flavor be relegate to a rise. mutatosque deos flebit in antro. 
mute god weepin in a cave suggest stalky. pon my sam horace need a much lookin after a tulke. 
they edit him faithfully till it be too dark to see. 
aha. elucescebat quoth our friend. ulpian serf my need doe it. if king can make anything out of that_ i m a blue eye squatteroo say beetle a they slide out of the loft window into a back alley of old acquaintance and start on a three mile trot to the college. but the revision of the classic have detain them too long. they halt blow and breathless in the furze at the back of the gasometer the college light twinkle below ten minute at least late for tea and lock up. 
it s no good puff mcturk. bet a bob foxy be wait for defaulter under the lamp by the five court. it s a nuisance too because the head give u long leave and one doesn t like to break it. 
let me now from the bond ware ouse of my knowledge begin stalky. 
oh rot. don t jorrock. can we make a run for it. snap mcturk. 
bishop boot mr. radcliffe also condemn an speak ighly in favor of top clean with champagne an abricot jam. where s that thing cokey be twiddlin this afternoon. 
they hear him grope in the wet and presently behold a great miracle. the light of the coastguard cottage near the sea go out. the brilliantly illuminate window of the golf club disappear and be follow by the frontage of the two hotel. scatter villa dull twinkle and vanish. last of all the college light die also. they be leave in the pitchy darkness of a windy winter s night. 
blister my kidney. it be a frost. the dahlia be dead. say stalky. bunk. 
they squattered through the drip gorse a the college hum like an angry hive and the din room chorus gas. gas. gas. till they come to the edge of the sink path that divide them from their study. drop that ha ha like bullet and rebound like boy they dash to their study in le than two minute have change into dry trouser and coat and ostentatiously slippered join the mob in the din hall which resemble the storm centre of a south american revolution. 
hellish dark and smell of cheese. stalky elbow his way into the press howl lustily for gas. cokey must have go for a walk. foxy ll have to find him. 
prout a the near house master be try to restore order for rude boy be flick butter pat across chaos and mcturk have turn on the fag tea urn so that many be parboil and weep with an unfeigned dolor. the fourth and upper third break into the school song the vive la compagnie to the accompaniment of drum knife handle. and the junior form shrill bat like shriek and raid one another s victual. two hundred and fifty boy in high condition seek for more light be truly earnest inquirer. 
when a most vile smell of gas tell them that supply have be renew stalky waistcoat unbutton sit gorgedly over what might have be his fourth cup of tea. and that s all right he say. hullo. ere s pomponius ego. 
it be carson the head of the school a simple straight mind soul and a pillar of the first fifteen who cross over from the prefect table and in a husky official voice invite the three to attend in his study in half an hour. prefect meetin. prefect meetin. hiss the table and they imitate barbarically the action and effect of the grind ash. 
how be we goin to jest with em. say stalky turn half face to beetle. it s your play this time. 
look here be the answer all i want you to do be not to laugh. i m goin to take charge o young tulke s immorality a la king and it s goin to be serious. if you can t help laughin don t look at me or i ll go pop. 
i see. all right say stalky. 
mcturk s lank frame stiffen in every muscle and his eyelid drop half over his eye. that last be a war signal. 
the eight or nine senior their face very set and sober be range in chair round carson s severely philistine study. tulke be not popular among them and a few who have have experience of stalky and company doubt that he might perhaps have make an as of himself. but the dignity of the sixth be to be uphold. so carson begin hurriedly. look here you chap i ve we ve send for you to tell you you re a good deal too cheeky to the sixth have be for some time and and we ve stand about a much a we re goin to and it seem you ve be cursin and swearin at tulke on the bideford road this afternoon and we re goin to show you you can t do it. that s all. 
well that s awfully good of you say stalky but we happen to have a few right of our own too. you can t just because you happen to be make prefect haul up senior and jaw em on spec. like a house master. we aren t fag carson. this kind of thing may do for davy tertius but it win t do for u. 
it s only old prout s lunacy that we weren t prefect long ago. you know that say mcturk. you haven t any tact. 
hold on say beetle. a prefect meetin ha to be report to the head. i want to know if the head back tulke in this business. 
well well it isn t exactly a prefect meet say carson. we only call you in to warn you. 
but all the prefect be here beetle insist. where s the difference. 
my gum. say stalky. do you mean to say you ve just call u in for a jaw after comin to u before the whole school at tea an givin em the impression it be a prefect meet. pon my sam carson you ll get into trouble you will. 
hole an corner business hole an corner business say mcturk wag his head. beastly suspicious. 
the sixth look at each other uneasily. tulke have call three prefect meeting in two term till the head have inform the sixth that they be expect to maintain discipline without the recurrent menace of his authority. now it seem that they have make a blunder at the outset but any right mind boy would have sink the legality and be properly impress by the court. beetle s protest be distinct cheek. 
well you chap deserve a lickin cry one naughten incautiously. then be beetle fill with a noble inspiration. 
for interferin with tulke s amour eh. tulke turn a rich sloe color. oh no you don t. beetle go on. you ve have your inning. we ve be send up for curse and swear at you and we re goin to be let off with a warn. be we. now then you re go to catch it. 
i i i tulke begin. don t let that young devil start jaw. 
if you ve anything to say you must say it decently say carson. 
decently. i will. now look here. when we go into bideford we meet this ornament of the sixth be that decent enough. hang about on the road with a nasty look in his eye. we didn t know then why he be so anxious to stop u but at five minute to four when we be in yeo s shop we saw tulke in broad daylight with his house cap on kissin an huggin a woman on the pavement. be that decent enough for you. 
i didn t i wasn t. 
we saw you. say beetle. and now i ll be decent carson you sneak back with her kiss. not for nothing have beetle peruse the late poet. hot on your lip and call prefect meeting which aren t prefect meeting to uphold the honor of the sixth. a new and heaven cleave path open before him that instant. and how do we know he shout how do we know how many of the sixth be mix up in this abominable affair. 
yes that s what we want to know say mcturk with simple dignity. 
we mean to come to you about it quietly carson but you would have the meet say stalky sympathetically. 
the sixth be too take aback to reply. so carefully model his rhetoric on king beetle follow up the attack surpass and surprise himself it it isn t so much the cynical immorality of the biznai a the blatant indecency of it that s so awful. a far a we can see it s impossible for u to go into bideford without runnin up against some prefect s unwholesome amour. there s nothing to snigger over naughten. i don t pretend to know much about these thing but it seem to me a chap must be pretty far dead in sin. that be a quotation from the school chaplain. when he take to embrace his paramour. that be hakluyt. before all the city. a reminiscence of milton. he might at least have the decency you re authority on decency i believe to wait till dark. but he didn t. you didn t. oh tulke. you you incontinent little animal. 
here shut up a minute. what s all this about tulke. say carson. 
i look here. i m awfully sorry. i never think beetle would take this line. 
because you ve no decency you think i hadn t cry beetle all in one breath. 
try to cover it all up with a conspiracy do you. say stalky. 
direct insult to all three of u say mcturk. a most filthy mind you have tulke. 
i ll shove you fellow outside the door if you go on like this say carson angrily. 
that prof it s a conspiracy say stalky with the air of a virgin martyr. 
i i be goin along the street i swear i be cry tulke and and i m awfully sorry about it a woman come up and kiss me. i swear i didn t kiss her. 
there be a pause fill by stalky s long liquid whistle of contempt amazement and derision. 
on my honor gulp the persecute one. oh do stop him jaw. 
very good mcturk interject. we be compel of course to accept your statement. 
confound it. roar naughten. you aren t head prefect here mcturk. 
oh well return the irishman you know tulke good than we do. i be only speak for ourselves. we accept tulke s word. but all i can say be that if i d be collar in a similarly disgustin situation and have offer the same explanation tulke ha i i wonder what you d have say. however it seem on tulke s word of honor. 
and tulkus beg pardon kiss_ of course tulkiss be an honorable man put in stalky. 
that the sixth can t protect emselves from bein kiss when they go for a walk. cry beetle take up the run with a rush. sweet business isn t it. cheerful thing to tell the fag ain t it. we aren t prefect of course but we aren t kiss very much. don t think that sort of thing ever enter our head. doe it stalky. 
oh no. say stalky turn aside to hide his emotion. mcturk s face merely express lofty contempt and a little weariness. 
well you seem to know a lot about it interpose a prefect. 
can t help it when you chap shove it under our nose. beetle drop into a drawl parody of king s most bite colloquial style the gentle rain after the thunder storm. well it s all very sufficiently vile and disgraceful isn t it. i don t know who come out of it bad. tulke who happen to have be catch. or the other fellow who haven t. and we here he wheel fiercely on the other two we ve get to stand up and be jaw by them because we ve disturb their intrigue. 
hang it. i only want to give you a word of warn say carson thereby hand himself bind to the enemy. 
warn. you. this with the air of one who find loathsome gift in his locker. carson would you be good enough to tell u what conceivable thing there be that you be entitle to warn u about after this exposure. warn. oh it s a little too much. let s go somewhere where it s clean. 
the door bang behind their outrage innocence. 
oh beetle. beetle. beetle. golden beetle. sob stalky hurl himself on beetle s pant bosom a soon a they reach the study. however do you do it. 
dear r man say mcturk embrace beetle s head with both arm while he sway it to and fro on the neck in time to this ancient burden. 
pretty lip sweet than cherry or plum. always look jolly and never look glum. seem to say come away. kissy. come come. yummy yum. yummy yum. yummy yum yum. 
look out. you ll smash my gig lamp puff beetle emerge. wasn t it glorious. didn t i eric em splendidly. do you spot my crib from king. oh blow. his countenance cloud. there s one adjective i didn t use obscene. don t know how i forget that. it s one of king s pet one too. 
never mind. they ll be sendin ambassador round in half a shake to beg u not to tell the school. it s a deuced serious business for them say mcturk. poor sixth poor old sixth. 
immoral young rip stalky snort. what an example to pure souled boy like you and me. 
and the sixth in carson s study sit aghast glower at tulke who be on the edge of tear. well say the head prefect acidly. you ve make a pretty average ghastly mess of it tulke. 
why why didn t you lick that young devil beetle before he begin jaw. tulke wail. 
i know there d be a row say a prefect of prout s house. but you would insist on the meet tulke. 
yes and a fat lot of good it s do u say naughten. they come in here and jaw our head off when we ought to be jawin them. beetle talk to u a if we be a lot of blackguard and and all that. and when they ve hang u up to dry they go out and slam the door like a house master. all your fault tulke. 
but i didn t kiss her. 
you as. if you d say you have and stick to it it would have be ten time good than what you do naughten retort. now they ll tell the whole school and beetle ll make up a lot of beastly rhyme and nick name. 
but hang it she kiss me. outside of his work tulke s mind move slowly. 
i m not think of you. i m think of u. i ll go up to their study and see if i can make em keep quiet. 
tulke s awf ly cut up about this business naughten begin ingratiatingly when he find beetle. 
who s kiss him this time. 
and i ve come to ask you chap and especially you beetle not to let the thing be know all over the school. of course fellow a senior a you be can easily see why. 
um. say beetle with the cold reluctance of one who foresee an unpleasant public duty. i suppose i must go and talk to the sixth again. 
not the least need my dear chap i assure you say naughten hastily. i ll take any message you care to send. 
but the chance of supply the miss adjective be too tempt. so naughten return to that still undissolved meet beetle white icy and aloof at his heel. 
there seem he begin with laboriously crisp articulation there seem to be a certain amount of uneasiness among you a to the step we may think fit to take in regard to this last revelation of the ah obscene. if it be any consolation to you to know that we have decide for the honor of the school you understand to keep our mouth shut a to these ah obscenity you ah have it. 
he wheel his head among the star and stride statelily back to his study where stalky and mcturk lay side by side upon the table wipe their tearful eye too weak to move. 
the latin prose paper be a success beyond their wild dream. stalky and mcturk be of course out of all examination. they do extra tuition with the head. but beetle attend with zeal. 
this i presume be a par ergon on your part say king a he deal out the paper. one final exhibition ere you be translate to lofty sphere. a last attack on the classic. it seem to confound you already. 
beetle study the print with knit brow. i can t make head or tail of it he murmur. what doe it mean. 
no no. say king with scholastic coquetry. we depend upon you to give u the mean. this be an examination beetle mine not a guess competition. you will find your associate have no difficulty in. 
tulke leave his place and lay the paper on the desk. king look read and turn a ghastly green. 
stalky s miss a heap think beetle. wonder hew king ll get out of it. 
there seem king begin with a gulp a certain modicum of truth in our beetle s remark. i be er incline to believe that the worthy randall must have drop this in ferule if you know what that mean. beetle you purport to be an editor. perhaps you can enlighten the form a to form. 
what sir. whose form. i don t see that there s any verb in this sentence at all an an the ode be all different somehow. 
i be about to say before you volunteer your criticism that an accident must have befall the paper in type and that the printer reset it by the light of nature. no he hold the thing at arm s length our randall be not an authority on cicero or horace. 
rather mean to shove it off on randall whisper beetle to his neighbor. king must ha be a screw a an owl when he write it out. 
but we can amend the error by dictate it. 
no sir. the answer come pat from a dozen throat at once. that cut the time for the exam. only two hour allow sir. tisn t fair. it s a print paper exam. how re we goin to be mark for it. it s all randall s fault. it isn t our fault anyhow. an exam. s an exam. etc. etc. 
naturally mr. king consider this be an attempt to undermine his authority and instead of begin dictation at once deliver a lecture on the spirit in which examination should be approach. a the storm subside beetle fan it afresh. 
eh. what. what be that you be say to maclagan. 
i only say i think the paper ought to have be look at before they be give out sir. 
hear hear. from a back bench. mr. king wish to know whether beetle take it upon himself personally to conduct the tradition of the school. his zeal for knowledge eat up another fifteen minute during which the prefect show unmistakable sign of boredom. 
oh it be a giddy time say beetle afterwards in dismantle number five. he gibber a bite and i keep him on the gibber and then he dictate about a half of dolabella & co. 
good old dolabella. friend of mine. yes. say stalky pensively. 
then we have to ask him how every other word be spell of course and he gibber a lot more. he curse me and maclagan. mac play up like a trump. and randall and the materialize ignorance of the unscholarly middle class lust for mere mark and all the rest. it be what you might call a final exhibition a last attack a giddy par ergon. 
but o course he be blind squiffy when he write the paper. i hope you explain that. say stalky. 
oh yes. i tell tulke so. i say an immoral prefect an a drunken house master be legitimate inference. tulke nearly blub. he s awfully shy of u since mary s time. 
tulke preserve that modesty till the last moment till the journey money have be pay and the boy be fill the brake that take them to the station. then the three tenderly constrain him to wait a while. 
you see tulke you may be a prefect say stalky but i ve leave the coll. do you see tulke dear. 
yes i see. don t bear malice stalky. 
stalky. curse your impudence you young cub shout stalky magnificent in top hat stiff collar spat and high waisted snuff color ulster. i want you to understand that i m mister corkran an you re a dirty little schoolboy. 
besides bein frabjously immoral say mcturk. wonder you aren t ashamed to foist your company on pure mind boy like u. 
come on tulke cry naughten from the prefect brake. 
yes we re comin. shove up and make room you collegers. you ve all get to be back next term with your yes sir and oh sir an no sir an please sir. but before we say good by we re go to tell you a little story. go on dickie. this to the driver. we re quite ready. kick that hat box under the seat an don t crowd your uncle stalky. 
a nice a lot of high mind youngster a you d wish to see say mcturk gaze round with bland patronage. a trifle immoral but then boy will be boy. it s no good tryin to look stuffy carson. mister corkran will now oblige with the story of tulke an mary yeo. 
slave of the lamp. 
part ii. 
that very infant who tell the story of the capture of boh na ghee [_a conference of the power. many invention ] to eustace cleaver novelist inherit an estateful baronetcy with vast revenue resign the service and become a landholder while his mother stand guard over him to see that he marry the right girl. but new to his position he present the local volunteer with a full size magazine rifle range two mile long across the heart of his estate and the surround family who live in savage seclusion among wood full of pheasant regard him a an err maniac. the noise of the fire disturb their poultry and infant be cast out from the society of j. p. s and decent men till such time a a daughter of the county might lure him back to right think. he take his revenge by fill the house with choice selection of old schoolmate home on leave affable detrimentals at whom the bicycle rid maiden of the surround family be allow to look from afar. i know when a troop ship be in port by the infant s invitation. sometimes he would produce old friend of equal seniority. at others young and blush giant whom i have leave small fag far down in the low second. and to these infant and the elder expound the whole duty of man in the army. 
i ve have to cut the service say the infant. but that s no reason why my vast store of experience should be lose to posterity. he be just thirty and in that same summer an imperious wire draw me to his baronial castle. get good haul. ex tamar. come along. 
it be an unusually good haul arrange with a single eye to my benefit. there be a baldish break down captain of native infantry shiver with ague behind an indomitable red nose and they call him captain dickson. there be another captain also of native infantry with a fair mustache. his face be like white glass and his hand be fragile but he answer joyfully to the cry of tertius. there be an enormously big and well keep man who have evidently not campaign for year clean shave soft voice and cat like but still abanazar for all that he adorn the indian political service. and there be a lean irishman his face tan blue black with the sun of the telegraph department. luckily the baize door of the bachelor wing fit tight for we dress promiscuously in the corridor or in each other s room talk call shout and anon waltz by pair to song of dick four s own devise. 
there be sixty year of mix work to be sift out between u and since we have meet one another from time to time in the quick scene shift of india a dinner camp or a race meet here. a dak bungalow or railway station up country somewhere else we have never quite lose touch. infant sit on the banister hungrily and enviously drink it in. he enjoy his baronetcy but his heart yearn for the old day. 
it be a cheerful babel of matter personal provincial and imperial piece of old call over list and new policy cut short by the roar of a burmese gong and we go down not le than a quarter of a mile of stair to meet infant s mother who have know u all in our school day and greet u a if those have end a week ago. but it be fifteen year since with tear of laughter she have lend me a gray princess skirt for amateur theatrical. 
that be a dinner from the arabian night serve in an eighty foot hall full of ancestor and pot of flower rose and what be more impressive heat by steam. when it be end and the little mother have go away. you boy want to talk so i shall say good night now. we gather about an apple wood fire in a gigantic polish steel grate under a mantel piece ten foot high and the infant compass u about with curious liqueur and that kind of cigarette which serf best to introduce your own pipe. 
oh bliss. grunt dick four from a sofa where he have be pack with a rug over him. first time i ve be warm since i come home. 
we be all nearly on top of the fire except infant who have be long enough at home to take exercise when he felt chill. this be a grisly diversion but much affect by the english of the island. 
if you say a word about cold tub and brisk walk drawl mcturk i ll kill you infant. i ve get a liver too. member when we use to think it a treat to turn out of our bed on a sunday morning thermometer fifty seven degree if it be summer and bathe off the pebbleridge. ugh. 
thing i don t understand say tertius be the way we chap use to go down into the lavatory boil ourselves pink and then come up with all our pore open into a young snow storm or a black frost. yet none of our chap die that i can remember. 
talkin of bath say mcturk with a chuckle member our bath in number five beetle the night rabbit egg rock king. what wouldn t i give to see old stalky now. he be the only one of the two study not here. 
stalky be the great man of his century say dick four. 
how d you know. i ask. 
how do i know. say dick four scornfully. if you ve ever be in a tight place with stalky you wouldn t ask. 
i haven t see him since the camp at pindi in i say. he be goin strong then about seven foot high and four foot through. 
adequate chap. infernally adequate say tertius pull his mustache and star into the fire. 
get dam near court martialed and break in egypt in the infant volunteer. i go out in the same trooper with him a raw a he be. only i show it and stalky didn t. 
what be the trouble. say mcturk reach forward absently to twitch my dress tie into position. 
oh nothing. his colonel trust him to take twenty tommies out to wash or groom camel or something at the back of suakin and stalky get embroil with fuzzies five mile in the interior. he conduct a masterly retreat and wipe up eight of em. he know jolly well he d no right to go out so far so he take the initiative and pitch in a letter to his colonel who be froth at the mouth complain of the paucity of support accord to him in his operation. gad it might have be one fat brigadier slangin another. then he go into the staff corp. 
that be entirely stalky say abanazar from his arm chair. 
you ve come across him too. i say. 
oh yes he reply in his soft tone. i be at the tail of that that epic. don t you chap know. 
we do not infant mcturk and i. and we call for information very politely. 
twasn t anything say tertius. we get into a mess up in the khye kheen hill a couple o year ago and stalky pull u through. that s all. 
mcturk gaze at tertius with all an irishman s contempt for the tongue tie saxon. 
heaven. he say. and it s you and your like govern ireland. tertius aren t you ashamed. 
well i can t tell a yarn. i can chip in when the other fellow start bukhing. ask him. he point to dick four whose nose gleam scornfully over the rug. 
i know you wouldn t say dick four. give me a whiskey and soda. i ve be drink lemon squash and ammoniate quinine while you chap be bathin in champagne and my head s singin like a top. 
he wipe his rag mustache above the drink. and his teeth chatter in his head begin. you know the khye kheen malo t expedition when we scar the soul out of em with a field force they daren t fight against. well both tribe there be a coalition against u come in without fire a shoot. and a lot of hairy villain who have no more power over their men than i have promise and vow all sort of thing. on that very slender evidence pussy dear. 
i be at simla say abanazar hastily. 
never mind you re tar with the same brush. on the strength of those tuppenny ha penny treaty your ass of politicals report the country a pacify and the government be a fool a usual begin road makin dependin on local supply for labor. member that_ pussy. rest of our chap who d have no look in during the campaign didn t think there d be any more of it and be anxious to get back to india. but i d be in two of these little row before and i have my suspicion. i engineer myself summa ingenio_ into command of a road patrol no shovellin only march up and down genteelly with a guard. they d withdraw all the troop they could but i nucleused about forty pathan recruit chiefly of my regiment and sit tight at the base camp while the road party go to work a per political survey. 
have some rippin sing song in camp too say tertius. 
my pup thus do dick four refer to his subaltern be a pious little beast. he didn t like the sing song and so he go down with pneumonia. i rootle round the camp and find tertius gas about a a d. a. q. m. g. which god know he isn t cut out for. there be six or eight of the old coll. at base camp. we re always in force for a frontier row. but i d hear of tertius a a steady old hack and i tell him he have to shake off his d. a. q. m. g. breech and help me. tertius volunteer like a shoot and we settle it with the authority and out we go forty pathan tertius and me look up the road party. macnamara s member old mac the sapper who play the fiddle so damnably at umballa. mac s party be the last but one. the last be stalky s. he be at the head of the road with some of his pet sikh. mac say he believe he be all right. 
stalky be a sikh say tertius. he take his men to pray at the durbar sahib at amritzar regularly a clockwork when he can. 
don t interrupt tertius. it be about forty mile beyond mac s before i find him. and my men point out gently but firmly that the country be risin. what kind o country beetle. well i_ m no word painter thank goodness but you might call it a hellish country. when we weren t up to our neck in snow we be roll down the khud. the well dispose inhabitant who be to supply labor for the road make. don t forget that pussy dear. sit behind rock and take pot shot at u. old old story. we all legged it in search of stalky. i have a feel that he d be in good cover and about dusk we find him and his road party a snug a a bug in a rug in an old malo t stone fort with a watch tower at one corner. it overhang the road they have blast out of the cliff fifty foot below. and under the road thing go down pretty sheer for five or six hundred foot into a gorge about half a mile wide and two or three mile long. there be chap on the other side of the gorge scientifically gettin our range. so i hammer on the gate and nip in and trip over stalky in a greasy bloody old poshteen squat on the grind eat with his men. i d only see him for half a minute about three month before but i might have meet him yesterday. he wave his hand all sereno. 
hullo aladdin. hullo emperor. he say. you re just in time for the performance. 
i saw his sikh look a bite batter. where s your command. where s your subaltern. i say. 
here all there be of it say stalky. if you want young everett he s dead and his body s in the watch tower. they rush our road party last week and get him and seven men. we ve be besiege for five day. i suppose they let you through to make sure of you. the whole country s up. strike me you ve walk into a first class trap. he grin but neither tertius nor i could see where the deuce the fun be. we hadn t any grub for our men and stalky have only four day whack for his. that come of dependin upon your asinine politicals pussy dear who tell u that the inhabitant be friendly. 
to make u quite comfy stalky take u up to the watch tower to see poor everett s body lyin in a foot o drift snow. it look like a girl of fifteen not a hair on the little fellow s face. he d be shoot through the temple but the malo t have leave their mark on him. stalky unbutton the tunic and show it to u a rummy sickle shape cut on the chest. member the snow all white on his eyebrow tertius. member when stalky move the lamp and it look a if he be alive. 
ye e say tertius with a shudder. member the beastly look on stalky s face though with his nostril all blow out same a he use to look when he be bullyin a fag. that be a lovely even. 
we hold a council of war up there over everett s body. stalky say the malo t and khye kheens be up together. havin sink their blood feud to settle u. the chap we d see across the gorge be khye kheens. it be about half a mile from them to u a a bullet fly and they d make a line of sungars under the brow of the hill to sleep in and starve u out. the malo t he say be in front of u promiscuous. there wasn t good cover behind the fort or they d have be there too. stalky didn t mind the malo t half a much a he do the khye kheens. he say the malo t be treacherous cur. what i couldn t understand be why in the world the two gang didn t join in and rush u. there must have be at least five hundred of em. stalky say they didn t trust each other very well because they be ancestral enemy when they be at home. and the only time they d try a rush he d heave a couple of blast charge among em and that have sicken em a bite. 
it be dark by the time we finish and stalky always serene say. you command now. i don t suppose you mind my take any action i may consider necessary to reprovision the fort. i say of course not and then the lamp blow out. so tertius and i have to climb down the tower step. we didn t want to stay with everett. and get back to our men. stalky have go off to count the store i suppose. anyhow tertius and i sit up in case of a rush. they be plug at u pretty generally you know. relieve each other till the mornin. 
mornin come. no stalky. not a sign of him. i take counsel with his senior native officer a grand white whisker old chap rutton singh from jullunder way. he only grin and say it be all right. stalky have be out of the fort twice before somewhere or other accordin to him. he say stalky ud come back unchipped and give me to understand that stalky be an invulnerable guru of sort. all the same i put the whole command on half ration and set em to pickin out loophole. 
about noon there be no end of a snow storm and the enemy stop fire. we reply gingerly because we be awfully short of ammunition. don t suppose we fire five shot an hour but we generally get our man. well while i be talk with rutton singh i saw stalky come down from the watch tower rather puffy about the eye his poshteen coat with claret color ice. 
no trustin these snow storm he say. nip out quick and snaffle what you can get. there s a certain amount of friction between the khye kheens and the malo t just now. 
i turn tertius out with twenty pathan and they buck about in the snow for a bite till they come on to a sort of camp about eight hundred yard away with only a few men in charge and half a dozen sheep by the fire. they finish off the men and snaffle the sheep and a much grain a they could carry and come back. no one fire a shoot at em. there didn t seem to be anybody about but the snow be fall pretty thick. 
that s good enough say stalky when we get dinner ready and he be chewin mutton kababs off a cleanin rod. there s no sense riskin men. they re hold a pow wow between the khye kheens and the malo t at the head of the gorge. i don t think these so call coalition be much good. 
do you know what that maniac have do. tertius and i shake it out of him by instalment. there be an underground granary cellar room below the watch tower and in blast the road stalky have blow a hole into one side of it. be no one else but stalky he d keep the hole open for his own end. and lay poor everett s body slap over the well of the stair that lead down to it from the watch tower. he d have to move and replace the corpse every time he use the passage. the sikh wouldn t go near the place of course. well he d get out of this hole and drop on to the road. then in the night and a howl snow storm he d drop over the edge of the khud make his way down to the bottom of the gorge ford the nullah which be half freeze climb up on the other side along a track he d discover and come out on the right flank of the khye kheens. he have then listen to this. cross over a ridge that parallel their rear walk half a mile behind that and come out on the leave of their line where the gorge get shallow and where there be a regular track between the malo t and the khye kheen camp. that be about two in the morning and a it turn out a man spot him a khye kheen. so stalky abolish him quietly and leave him with the malo t mark on his chest same a everett have. 
i be just a economical a i could be stalky say to u. if he d shout i should have be slay. i d never have to do that kind of thing but once before and that be the first time i try that path. it s perfectly practicable for infantry you know. 
what about your first man. i say. 
oh that be the night after they kill everett and i go out lookin for a line of retreat for my men. a man find me. i abolish him privatim scrag him. but on thinkin it over it occur to me that if i could find the body. i d heave it down some rock. i might decorate it with the malo t mark and leave it to the khye kheens to draw inference. so i go out again the next night and do. the khye kheens be shock at the malo t perpetratin these two dastardly outrage after they d swear to sink all bleed feud. i lay up behind their sungars early this morning and watch em. they all go to confer about it at the head of the gorge. awf ly annoy they be. don t wonder. you know the way stalky drop out his word one by one. 
my god. say the infant explosively a the full depth of the strategy dawn on him. 
dear r man. say mcturk purr rapturously. 
stalky stalk say tertius. that s all there be to it. 
no he didn t say dick four. don t you remember how he insist that he have only apply his luck. don t you remember how rutton singh grab his boot and grovel in the snow and how our men shout. 
none of our pathan believe that be luck say tertius. they swear stalky ought to have be bear a pathan and member we nearly have a row in the fort when rutton singh say stalky be a pathan. gad how furious the old chap be with my jemadar. but stalky just waggle his finger and they shut up. 
old rutton singh s sword be half out though and he swear he d cremate every khye kheen and malo t he kill. that make the jemadar pretty wild because he didn t mind fight against his own creed but he wasn t go to crab a fellow mussulman s chance of paradise. then stalky jabber pushtu and punjabi in alternate streak. where the deuce do he pick up his pushtu from beetle. 
never mind his language dick say i. give u the gist of it. 
i flat myself i can address the wily pathan on occasion but hang it all i can t make pun in pushtu or top off my argument with a smutty story a he do. he play on those two old dog o war like a like a concertina. stalky say and the other two back up his knowledge of oriental nature that the khye kheens and the malo t between em would organize a combine attack on u that night a a proof of good faith. they wouldn t drive it home though because neither side would trust the other on account a rutton singh put it of the little accident. stalky s notion be to crawl out at dusk with his sikh manoeuvre em along this ungodly goat track that he d find to the back of the khye kheen position and then lob in a few long shot at the malo t when the attack be well on. that ll divert their mind and help to agitate em he say. then you chap can come out and sweep up the piece and we ll rendezvous at the head of the gorge. after that i move we get back to mac s camp and have something to eat. 
_you be commandin. the infant suggest. 
i be about three month senior to stalky and two month tertius s senior dick four reply. _but we be all from the same old coll. i should say ours be the only little affair on record where some one wasn t jealous of some one else. 
_we weren t tertius break in but there be another row between gul sher khan and rutton singh. our jemadar say he be quite right that no sikh live could stalk worth a damn. and that koran sahib have good take out the pathan who understand that kind of mountain work. rutton singh say that koran sahib jolly well know every pathan be a bear deserter and every sikh be a gentleman even if he couldn t crawl on his belly. stalky strike in with some woman s proverb or other that have the effect of doublin both men up with a grin. he say the sikh and the pathan could settle their claim on the khye kheens and malo t late on but he be go to take his sikh along for this mountain climb job because sikh could shoot. they can too. give em a mule load of ammunition apiece and they re perfectly happy. 
and out he gat say dick four. a soon a it be dark and he d have a bite of a snooze him and thirty sikh go down through the staircase in the tower every mother s son of em salutin little everett where it stand prop up against the wall. the last i hear him say be kubbadar. tumbleinga. [look out. you ll fall. ] and they tumbleingaed over the black edge of nothing. close upon p. m. the combine attack develop. khye kheens across the valley and malo t in front of u pluggin at long range and yellin to each other to come along and cut our infidel throat. then they skirmish up to the gate and begin the old game of call our pathan renegade and invitin em to join the holy war. one of our men a young fellow from dera ismail jump on the wall to slang em back and jump down blub like a child. he d be hit smack in the middle of the hand. never saw a man yet who could stand a hit in the hand without weepin bitterly. it tickle up all the nerve. so tertius take his rifle and smite the others on the head to keep them quiet at the loophole. the dear child want to open the gate and go in at em generally but that didn t suit our book. 
at last near midnight i hear the wop wop wop of stalky s martini across the valley and some general curse among the malo t whose main body be hide from u by a fold in the hillside. stalky be brownin em at a great rate and very naturally they turn half right and begin to blaze at their faithless ally the khye kheens regular volley firin. in le than ten minute after stalky open the diversion they be go it hammer and tongs both side the valley. when we could see the valley be rather a mix up affair. the khye kheens have stream out of their sungars above the gorge to chastise the malo t and stalky i be watch him through my glass have slip in behind em. very good. the khye kheens have to leg it along the hillside up to where the gorge get shallow and they could cross over to the malo t who be awfully cheer to see the khye kheens take in the rear. 
then it occur to me to comfort the khye kheens. so i turn out the whole command and we advance a la pa de charge_ doublin up what for the sake of argument we ll call the malo t leave flank. even then if they d sink their difference they could have eat u alive. but they d be firin at each other half the night and they go on firin. queer thing you ever saw in your bear day. a soon a our men double up to the malo t they d blaze at the khye kheens more zealously than ever to show they be on our side run up the valley a few hundred yard and halt to fire again. the moment stalky saw our game he duplicate it his side the gorge. and by jove. the khye kheens do just the same thing. 
yes but say tertius you ve forget him playin arrah patsy mind the baby on the bugle to hurry u up. 
do he. roar mcturk. somehow we all begin to sing it and there be an interruption. 
rather say tertius when we be quiet. no one of the aladdin company could forget that tune. yes he play patsy. go on dick. 
finally say dick four we drive both mob into each other s arm on a bite of level grind at the head of the valley and saw the whole crew whirl off fightin and stabbin and swearin in a blindin snow storm. they be a heavy hairy lot and we didn t follow em. 
stalky have capture one prisoner an old pension sepoy of twenty five year service who produce his discharge an awf ly sportin old card. he have be tryin to make his men rush u early in the day. he be sulky angry with his own side for their cowardice and rutton singh want to bayonet him sikh don t understand fightin against the government after you ve serve it honestly but stalky rescue him and freeze on to him tight with ulterior motif i believe. when we get back to the fort we bury young everett stalky wouldn t hear of blowin up the place and bunk. we d only lose ten men all tell. 
only ten out of seventy. how do you lose em. i ask. 
oh there be a rush on the fort early in the night and a few malo t get over the gate. it be rather a tight thing for a minute or two but the recruit take it beautifully. lucky job we hadn t any badly wound men to carry because we have forty mile to macnamara s camp. by jove how we legged it. half way in old rutton singh collapse so we sling him across four rifle and stalky s overcoat. and stalky his prisoner and a couple of sikh be his bearer. after that i go to sleep. you can you know on the march when your leg get properly numb. mac swear we all march into his camp snore and drop where we halt. his men lug u into the tent like gram bag. i remember wakin up and see stalky asleep with his head on old rutton singh s chest. he sleep twenty four hour. i only sleep seventeen but then i be come down with dysentery. 
come down. what rot. he have it on him before we join stalky in the fort say tertius. 
well you needn t talk. you heave your sword at macnamara and demand a drum head court martial every time you saw him. the only thing that soothe you be put you under arrest every half hour. you be off your head for three day. 
don t remember a word of it say tertius placidly. i remember my orderly give me milk though. 
how do stalky come out. mcturk demand purl hard over his pipe. 
stalky. like a serene brahmini bull. poor old mac be at his royal engineer wit end to know what to do. you see i be putrid with dysentery tertius be ravin half the men have frost bite and macnamara s order be to break camp and come in before winter. so stalky who hadn t turn a hair take half his supply to save him the bother o luggin em back to the plain and all the ammunition he could get at and consilio et auxilio rutton singhi tramp back to his fort with all his sikh and his precious prisoner and a lot of dissolute hanger on that he and the prisoner have seduce into service. he have sixty men of sort and his brazen cheek. mac nearly weep with joy when he go. you see there weren t any explicit order to stalky to come in before the pass be block. mac be a great man for order and stalky s a great man for order when they suit his book. 
he tell me he be goin to the engadine say tertius. sit on my cot smokin a cigarette and makin me laugh till i cry. macnamara bundle the whole lot of u down to the plain next day. we be a walkin hospital. 
stalky tell me that macnamara be a simple godsend to him say dick four. i use to see him in mac s tent listenin to mac playin the fiddle and between the piece wheedlin mac out of pick and shovel and dynamite cartridge hand over fist. well that be the last we saw of stalky. a week or so late the pass be shut with snow and i don t think stalky want to be find particularly just then. 
he didn t say the fair and fat abanazar. he didn t. ho ho. 
dick four throw up his thin dry hand with the blue vein at the back of it. hold on a minute pussy. i ll let you in at the proper time. i go down to my regiment and that spring five mouth late i get off with a couple of company on detachment. nominally to look after some friend of ours across the border. actually of course to recruit. it be a bite unfortunate because an as of a young naick carry a frivolous blood feud he d inherit from his aunt into those hill and the local gentry wouldn t volunteer into my corp. of course the naick have take short leave to manage the business. that be all regular enough. but he d stalk my pet orderly s uncle. it be an infernal shame because i know harris of the ghuznees would be cover that grind three month late and he d snaffle all the chap i have my eye on. everybody be down on the naick because they felt he ought to have have the decency to postpone his his disgustful amour till our company be full strength. 
still the beast have a certain amount of professional feel leave. he send one of his aunt s clan by night to tell me that if i d take safeguard he d put me on to a batch of beauty. i nip over the border like a shoot and about ten mile the other side in a nullah my rapparee in charge show me about seventy men variously arm but stand up like a queen s company. then one of em step out and lug round an old bugle just like who s the man. bancroft ain t it. feel for his eye glass in a farce and play arrah patsy mind the baby. arrah patsy mind that be a for a he could get. 
that also be a far a dick four could get because we have to sing the old song through twice again and once more and subsequently in order to repeat it. 
he explain that if i know the rest of the song he have a note for me from the man the song belong to. whereupon my child i finish that old tune on that bugle and this be what i get. i know you d like to look at it. don t grab. we be all struggle for a sight of the well know unformed handwrite. i ll read it aloud. 
fort everett february. 
dear dick or tertius. the bearer of this be in charge of seventy five recruit all pukka devil but desirous of lead new life. they have be slightly polish and after be boil may shape well. i want you to give thirty of them to my adjutant who though god s own as will need men this spring. the rest you can keep. you will be interest to learn that i have extend my road to the end of the malo t country. all headman and priest concern in last september s affair work one month each supply road metal from their own house. everett s grave be cover by a forty foot mound which should serve well a a base for future triangulation. rutton singh send his best salaam. i be make some treaty and have give my prisoner who also send his salaam local rank of khan bahadur. a. l. cockran. 
well that be all say dick four when the roar the shout the laughter and i think the tear have subside. i chaperon the gang across the border a quick a i could. they be rather homesick but they cheer up when they recognize some of my chap who have be in the khye kheen row and they make a rippin good lot. it s rather more than three hundred mile from fort everett to where i pick em up. now pussy tell em the latter end o stalky a you saw it. 
abanazar laugh a little nervous mislead official laugh. 
oh it wasn t much. i be at simla in the spring when our stalky out of his snow begin correspond direct with the government. 
after the manner of a king suggest dick four. my turn now dick. he d do a whole let of thing he shouldn t have do and constructively pledge the government to all sort of action. 
pledge the state s ticker eh. say mcturk with a nod to me. 
about that. but the embarrassin part be that it be all so thunderin convenient so well reason don t you know. come in a pat a if he d have access to all sort of information which he couldn t of course. 
pooh. say tertius i back stalky against the foreign office any day. 
he d do pretty nearly everything he could think of except strikin coin in his own image and superscription all under cover of buildin this infernal road and bein block by the snow. his report be simply amazin. von lennaert tear his hair over it at first and then he gasp who the dooce be this unknown warren hastings. he must be slay. he must be slay officially. the viceroy ll never stand it. it s unheard of. he must be slay by his excellency in person. order him up here and pitch in a stinger. well i send him no end of an official stinger and i pitch in an unofficial telegram at the same time. 
you. this with amazement from the infant for abanazar resemble nothing so much a a fluffy persian cat. 
yes me say abanazar. twasn t much but after what you ve say dicky it be rather a coincidence because i wire. 
aladdin now ha get his wife your emperor be appease. i think you d good come to life. we hope you ve all be please. 
funny how that old song come up in my head. that be fairly non committal and encouragin. the only flaw be that his emperor wasn t appease by very long chalk. stalky extricate himself from his mountain fastness and leaf up to simla at his leisure to be offer up on the horn of the altar. 
but i begin surely the commander in chief be the proper. 
his excellency have an idea that if he blow up one single junior captain same a king use to blow u up he be holdin the rein of empire and of course a long a he have that idea von lennaert encourage him. i m not sure von lennaert didn t put that notion into his head. 
they ve change the breed then since my time i say. 
p r aps. stalky be send up for his wiggin like a bad little boy. i ve reason to believe that his excellency s hair stand on end. he walk into stalky for one hour stalky at attention in the middle of the floor and. so he vow. von lennaert pretend to soothe down his excellency s topknot in dumb show in the background. stalky didn t dare to look up or he d have laugh. 
now wherefore be stalky not break publicly. say the infant with a large and luminous leer. 
ah wherefore. say abanazar. to give him a chance to retrieve his blast career and not to break his father s heart. stalky hadn t a father but that didn t matter. he behave like a like the sanawar orphan asylum and his excellency graciously spar him. then he come round to my office and sit opposite me for ten minute puff out his nostril. then he say pussy if i think that basket hanger. 
hah. he remember that say mcturk. 
that two anna basket hanger govern india i swear i d become a naturalize muscovite to morrow. i m a femme incomprise. this thing s break my heart. it ll take six month shootin leave in india to mend it. do you think i can get it pussy. 
he get it in about three minute and a half and seventeen day late he be back in the arm of rutton singh horrid disgrace with order to hand over his command etc. to cathcart macmonnie. 
observe. say dick four. one colonel of the political department in charge of thirty sikh on a hilltop. observe my child. 
naturally cathcart not be a fool even if he be a political let stalky do his shoot within fifteen mile of fort everett for the next six month and i always understand they and rutton singh and the prisoner be a thick a thief. then stalky loaf back to his regiment i believe. i ve never see him since. 
i have though say mcturk swell with pride. 
we all turn a one man. it be at the begin of this hot weather. i be in camp in the jullunder doab and stumble slap on stalky in a sikh village. sit on the one chair of state with half the population grovellin before him a dozen sikh baby on his knee an old harridan clappin him on the shoulder and a garland o flower round his neck. tell me he be recruitin. we din together that night but he never say a word of the business at the fort. tell me though that if i want any supply i d good say i be koran sahib s bhai. and i do and the sikh wouldn t take my money. 
ah. that must have be one of rutton singh s village say dick four. and we smoke for some time in silence. 
i say say mcturk cast back through the year do stalky ever tell you how rabbit egg come to rock king that night. 
no say dick four. then mcturk tell. i see say dick four nod. practically he duplicate that trick over again. there s nobody like stalky. 
that s just where you make the mistake i say. india s full of stalkies cheltenham and haileybury and marlborough chap that we don t know anything about and the surprise will begin when there be really a big row on. 
who will be surprise. say dick four. 
the other side. the gentleman who go to the front in first class carriage. just imagine stalky let loose on the south side of europe with a sufficiency of sikh and a reasonable prospect of loot. consider it quietly. 
there s something in that but you re too much of an optimist beetle say the infant. 
well i ve a right to be. ain t i responsible for the whole thing. you needn t laugh. who write aladdin now ha get his wife eh. 
what s that get to do with it. say tertius. 
everything say i. 
prove it say the infant. 
and i have. 
