an almanac of twelve sport. 
by william nicholson. 
word by rudyard kipling. 
publish by r. h. russell. new york. 

january. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
february. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
march. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
april. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
may. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
june. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
here be a horse to tame here be a gun to handle god know you can enter the game if you ll only pay for the same and the price of the game be a candle one single flicker candle. 

july. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
august. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
september. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
october. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
november. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
december. 
sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday. 
hunt. 
certes it be a noble sport and men have quit selle and swim for t but i be of a meek sort and i prefer surtees in comfort. 
reach down my handley cross again. my run where never danger lurk be with jorrocks and his deathless train pigg binjimin and arterxerxes. 
[illustration. january. ]. 
course. 
most men harry the world for fun each man seek it a different way but of all daft devil under the sun a grey ound s the daft say jorrocks j. 
[illustration. february. ]. 
race. 
the horse be ride the jockey ride the backer back the owner own but. there be lot of thing besides and i should leave this play alone. 
[illustration. march. ]. 
boat. 
the pope of rome he could not win from pleasant meat and pleasant sin these who in honour s hope endure lean day and life enforce pure. these who reply not submit unto the curse of the pit which he that ride. o great shame. fling forth by number not by name. could triple crown or jesuit s oath do what yon shuffle stock doth. 
[illustration. april. ]. 
fish. 
behold a parable. a fish for b. c take her bait. her heart be set on d. thank heaven who cool your blood and cramp your wish men and not god torment you little fish. 
[illustration. may. ]. 
cricket. 
thank god who make the british isle and teach me how to play i do not worship crocodile or bow the knee to clay. 
give me a willow wand and i with hide and cork and twine from century to century will gambol round my shrine. 
[illustration. june. ]. 
archery. 
the child of the ninety consider with laughter the maid whom his sire in the sixty run after while career himself in pursuit of a girl whom the twenty will dub a last century heir loom. 
[illustration. july. ]. 
coach. 
the pious horse to church may trot. a maid may work a man s salvation. four horse and a girl be not however aid to reformation. 
[illustration. august. ]. 
shoot. 
peace upon earth goodwill to men. so greet we christmas day. oh christian load your gun and then o christian out and slay. 
[illustration. september. ]. 
golf. 
why golf be art and art be golf we have not far to seek so much depend upon the lie so much upon the cleek. 
[illustration. october. ]. 
box. 
read here the moral roundly writ for him that into battle go each soul that hit hard and hit encounter gross or ghostly foe. prince blow by many overthrow half blind with shame half choke with dirt man cannot tell but allah know how much the other side be hurt. 
[illustration. november. ]. 
skate. 
over the ice she fly perfect and poise and fair star in my true love s eye teach me to do and to dare. 
now will i fly a she fly. woe for the star that mislead. star that i saw in her eye now do i see in my head. 
[illustration. december. ]. 
now we must come away. what be you out of pocket. sorry to spoil your play but somebody say we must pay and the candle s down to the socket it horrible tallowy socket. 
