the year between. 
by. 
rudyard kipling. 
[illustration]. 
methuen and co. ltd. essex street w. c. london first publish in. 
dedication. 
to the seven watchman. 
seven watchman sit in a tower watch what have come upon mankind show the man the glory and the power and bid him shape the kingdom to his mind. all thing on earth your will shall win you. twas so their counsel run. but the kingdom the kingdom be within you say the man s own mind to the man. for time and some time a it be in the bitter year before so it shall be in the over sweeten hour that a man s mind be wont to tell him more than seven watchman sit in a tower. 
content. 
page benefactor the choice the city of brass the covenant the craftsman the dead king the death bed a declaration of london the dedication v en dor epitaph female of the specie the for all we have and be france gehazi gethsemane holy war the house the hyænas the justice irish guard the lord robert mary s son mesopotamia my boy jack nativity a natural theology old song the outlaw the pilgrim s way a pro consul the question the recantation a rower the russia to the pacifist song at cock crow a song in storm a song of the lathe the son of martha the spy march the thing and the man ulster verdict the veteran the virginity the zion. 
index to first line. 
page across a world where all men grieve a. i be a have b. i be a have not after the burial party leave ah. what avail the classic bend a tinker out of bedford. 
be well assure that on our side brother how shall it fare with me break to every know mischance lift over all. 
for all we have and be. 
god rest you peaceful gentleman let nothing you dismay. 
have you news of my boy jack. he pass in the very battle smoke. 
i eat my fill of a whale that die i do not look for holy saint to guide me on my way if you stop to find out what your wage will be in a land that the sand overlay the way to her gate be untrod. 
not in the thick of the fight. 
oh ye who hold the write clue once after long draw revel at the mermaid. 
seven watchman sit in a tower v. 
the babe be lay in the manger the bank oar fell an hundred strong the dark eleventh hour the doorkeeper of zion the fan and the belting they roar round me the first time that peter deny his lord the garden call gethsemane the overfaithful sword return the user there be no leader to lead u to honour and yet without leader we sally the road to en dor be easy to tread these be never your true love s eye the son of mary seldom bother for they have inherit that good part they shall not return to u the resolute the young this be the state above the law to day across our father graf to the judge of right and wrong through learn and laborious year try a he will no man break wholly loose twixt my house and thy house the pathway be broad. 
we re not so old in the army list we think we rank above the chance of ill we be all one heart and one race what boot it on the god to call. whence comest thou gehazi when the himalayan peasant meet the he bear in his pride who in the realm to day lay down dear life for the sake of a land more dear. 
the rower. 

when germany propose that england should help her in a naval demonstration to collect debt from venezuela. 
the bank oar fell an hundred strong and back and thresh and grind but bitter be the rower song a they bring the war boat round. 
they have no heart for the rally and roar that make the whale bath smoke when the great blade cleave and hold and leave a one on the race stroke. 
they sing. what reckon do you keep and steer her by what star if we come unscathed from the southern deep to be wreck on a baltic bar. 
last night you swear our voyage be do but seaward still we go and you tell u now of a secret vow you have make with an open foe. 
that we must lie off a lightless coast and haul and back and veer at the will of the breed that have wrong u most for a year and a year and a year. 
there be never a shame in christendie they lay not to our door and you say we must take the winter sea and sail with them once more. 
look south. the gale be scarce o erpast that strip and lay u down when we stand forth but they stand fast and pray to see u drown. 
our dead they mock be scarcely cold our wound be bleed yet and you tell u now that our strength be sell to help them press for a debt. 
neath all the flag of all mankind that use upon the sea be there no other fleet to find that you strike hand with these. 
of evil time that men can choose on evil fate to fall what brood judgment let you loose to pick the bad of all. 
in sight of peace from the narrow sea o er half the world to run with a cheat crew to league anew with the goth and the shameless hun. 
the veteran. 
[written for the gather of survivor of the indian mutiny albert hall. ]. 
to day across our father graf the astonish year reveal the remnant of that desperate host which cleanse our east with steel. 
hail and farewell. we greet you here with tear that none will scorn o keeper of the house of old or ever we be bear. 
one service more we dare to ask pray for u hero pray that when fate lay on u our task we do not shame the day. 
the declaration of london. 
june. 
on the re assemble of parliament after the coronation the government have no intention of allow their follower to vote accord to their conviction on the declaration of london but insist on a strictly party vote daily paper. 
we be all one heart and one race when the abbey trumpet blow. for a moment s breathe space we have forget you now you return to your honour place pant to shame u anew. 
we have walk with the age dead with our past alive and ablaze and you bid u pawn our honour for bread. this day of all the day. and you cannot wait till our guest be speed or last week s wreath decay. 
the light be still in our eye of faith and gentlehood of service and sacrifice and it doe not match our mood to turn so soon to your treachery that starve our land of her food. 
our ear still carry the sound of our once imperial sea exultant after our king be crown beneath the sun and the breeze. it be too early to have them bind or sell at your decree. 
wait till the memory go wait till the vision fade we may betray in time god know but we would not have it say when you make report to our scornful foe that we kiss a we betray. 
ulster. 

their web shall not become garment neither shall they cover themselves with their work. their work be work of iniquity and the act of violence be in their hand. isaiah lix. 
the dark eleventh hour draw on and see u sell to every evil power we fight against of old. rebellion rapine hate oppression wrong and greed be loose to rule our fate by england s act and deed. 
the faith in which we stand the law we make and guard our honour life and land be give for reward to murder do by night to treason teach by day to folly sloth and spite and we be thrust away. 
the blood our father spill our love our toil our pain be count u for guilt and only bind our chain. before an empire s eye the traitor claim his price. what need of further lie. we be the sacrifice. 
we ask no more than leave to reap where we have sow through good and ill to cleave to our own flag and throne. now england s shoot and steel beneath that flag must show how loyal heart should kneel to england s old foe. 
we know the war prepare on every peaceful home we know the hell declare for such a serve not rome the terror threat and dread in market hearth and field we know when all be say we perish if we yield. 
believe we dare not boast believe we do not fear we stand to pay the cost in all that men hold dear. what answer from the north. one law one land one throne. if england drive u forth we shall not fall alone. 
the covenant. 

we think we rank above the chance of ill. others might fall not we for we be wise merchant in freedom. so of our free will we let our servant drug our strength with lie. the pleasure and the poison have it way on u a on the mean till we learn that he who lie will steal who steal will slay. neither god s judgment nor man s heart be turn. 
yet there remain his mercy to be seek through wrath and peril till we cleanse the wrong by that last right which our forefather claim when their law fail them and it steward be buy. this be our cause. god help u and make strong our will to meet him late unashamed. 
france. 

break to every know mischance lift over all by the light sane joy of life the buckler of the gaul. furious in luxury merciless in toil terrible with strength that draw from her tireless soil. strict judge of her own worth gentle of man s mind first to follow truth and last to leave old truth behind france beloved of every soul that love it fellow kind. 
ere our birth. rememberest thou. side by side we lay fret in the womb of rome to begin our fray. ere men know our tongue apart our one task be know each must mould the other s fate a he work his own to this end we stir mankind till all earth be ours till our world end strife beget wayside throne and power puppet that we make or break to bar the other s path necessary outpost folk hireling of our wrath to this end we storm the sea tack for tack and burst through the doorway of new world doubtful which be first hand on hilt. rememberest thou. ready for the blow sure whatever else we meet we should meet our foe. spur or balk at every stride by the other s strength so we ride the age down and every ocean s length. 
where do you refrain from u or we refrain from you. ask the wave that ha not watch war between u two. others hold u for a while but with weak charm these we quit at the call for each other s arm. eager toward the know delight equally we strive each the other s mystery terror need and love to each other s open court with our proof we come. where could we find honour else or men to test our claim. from each other s throat we wrench valour s last reward that extort word of praise gasp twixt lunge and guard. in each other s cup we pour mingle blood and tear brutal joy unmeasured hope intolerable fear all that soil or salt life for a thousand year. prove beyond the need of proof match in every clime o companion we have live greatly through all time. 
yoke in knowledge and remorse now we come to rest laugh at old villainy that time ha turn to jest pardon old necessity no pardon can efface that undying sin we share in rouen marketplace. now we watch the new year shape wonder if they hold fierce lightning in their heart than we launch of old. now we hear new voice rise question boast or gird a we rag. rememberest thou. when our crowd be stir now we count new keel afloat and new host on land mass like ours. rememberest thou. when our stroke be plan. we be school for dear life s sake to know each other s blade what can blood and iron make more than we have make. we have learn by keen use to know each other s mind. what shall blood and iron loose that we cannot bind. we who sweep each other s coast sack each other s home since the sword of brennus clash on the scale at rome listen count and close again wheel girth to girth in the link and steadfast guard set for peace on earth. 
break to every know mischance lift over all by the light sane joy of life the buckler of the gaul. furious in luxury merciless in toil terrible with strength renew from a tireless soil. strict judge of her own worth gentle of man s mind first to face the truth and last to leave old truth behind france beloved of every soul that love or serf it kind. 
for all we have and be. 

for all we have and be for all our child s fate stand up and take the war the hun be at the gate. our world ha pass away in wantonness o erthrown. there be nothing leave to day but steel and fire and stone. though all we know depart the old commandment stand. in courage keep your heart in strength lift up your hand. 
once more we hear the word that sicken earth of old. no law except the sword unsheathe and uncontrolled. once more it knit mankind once more the nation go to meet and break and bind a craze and drive foe. 
comfort content delight the age slow buy gain they shrivel in a night. only ourselves remain to face the naked day in silent fortitude through peril and dismay renew and re renew. though all we make depart the old commandment stand. in patience keep your heart in strength lift up your hand. 
no easy hope or lie shall bring u to our goal but iron sacrifice of body will and soul. there be but one task for all one life for each to give who stand if freedom fall. who dy if england live. 
a song in storm. 
be well assure that on our side the abide ocean fight though headlong wind and heap tide make u their sport to night. by force of weather not of war in jeopardy we steer then welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it shall appear how in all time of our distress and our deliverance too the game be more than the player of the game and the ship be more than the crew. 
out of the mist into the mirk the glimmer comber roll. almost these mindless water work a though they have a soul almost a though they league to whelm our flag beneath their green then welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it shall be see etc. 
be well assure though wave and wind have weighty blow in store that we who keep the watch assign must stand to it the more. and a our stream bow rebuke each billow s baulk career sing welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it be make clear etc. 
no matter though our deck be sweep and mast and timber crack we can make good all loss except the loss of turn back. so twixt these devil and our deep let courteous trumpet sound to welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it will be find etc. 
be well assure though in our power be nothing leave to give but chance and place to meet the hour and leave to strive to live till these dissolve our order hold our service bind u here. then welcome fate s discourtesy whereby it be make clear how in all time of our distress and in our triumph too the game be more than the player of the game and the ship be more than the crew. 
the outlaw. 

through learn and laborious year they set themselves to find fresh terror and undreamed of fear to heap upon mankind. 
all that they draw from heaven above or digged from earth beneath they lay into their treasure trove and arsenal of death. 
while for well weigh advantage sake ruler and rule alike build up the faith they mean to break when the fit hour should strike. 
they trade with the careless earth and good return it give. they plot by their neighbour s hearth the mean to make him slave. 
when all be ready to their hand they loose their hide sword and utterly lay waste a land their oath be pledge to guard. 
coldly they go about to raise to life and make more dread abomination of old day that men believe be dead. 
they pay the price to reach their goal across a world in flame. but their own hate slew their own soul before that victory come. 
zion. 
the doorkeeper of zion they do not always stand in helmet and whole armour with halberd in their hand but be sure of zion and all her mystery they rest awhile in zion sit down and smile in zion. ay even jest in zion. in zion at their ease. 
the gatekeeper of baal they dare not sit or lean but fume and fret and posture and foam and curse between. for be bind to baal whose sacrifice be vain. their rest be scant with baal they glare and pant for baal they mouth and rant for baal for baal in their pain. 
but we will go to zion by choice and not through dread with these our present comrade and those our present dead. and be free of zion in both her fellowship sit down and sup in zion stand up and drink in zion whatever cup in zion be offer to our lip. 
lord robert. 

he pass in the very battle smoke of the war that he have descry. three hundred mile of cannon speak when the master gunner die. 
he pass to the very sound of the gun. but before his eye grow dim he have see the face of the son whose sire have serve with him. 
he have touch their sword hilt and greet each with the old sure word of praise. and there be virtue in touch and speech a it have be in old day. 
so he dismiss them and take his rest and the steadfast spirit go forth between the adore east and west and the tireless gun of the north. 
clean simple valiant well beloved flawless in faith and fame whom neither ease nor honour move an hair s breadth from his aim. 
never again the war wise face the weigh and urgent word that plead in the market place plead and be not hear. 
yet from his life a new life spring through all the host to come and glory be the least of thing that follow this man home. 
the question. 

brother how shall it fare with me when the war be lay aside if it be prove that i be he for whom a world ha die. 
if it be prove that all my good and the great good i will make be purchase me by a multitude who suffer for my sake. 
that i be deliver by mere mankind vow to one sacrifice and not a i hold them battle blind but die with open eye. 
that they do not ask me to draw the sword when they stand to endure their lot that they only look to me for a word and i answer i know them not. 
if it be find when the battle clear their death ha set me free then how shall i live with myself through the year which they have buy for me. 
brother how must it fare with me or how be i justify if it be prove that i be he for whom mankind ha die if it be prove that i be he who be question deny. 
the choice. 

the american spirit speak. 
to the judge of right and wrong with whom fulfilment lie our purpose and our power belong our faith and sacrifice. 
let freedom s land rejoice. our ancient bond be rive. once more to u the eternal choice of good or ill be give. 
not at a little cost hardly by prayer or tear shall we recover the road we lose in the drug and doubt year. 
but after the fire and the wrath but after search and pain his mercy open u a path to live with ourselves again. 
in the gate of death rejoice. we see and hold the good bear witness earth we have make our choice with freedom s brotherhood. 
then praise the lord most high whose strength hath save u whole who bid u choose that the flesh should die and not the live soul. 
to the god in man display where e er we see that birth be love and understand pay a never yet on earth. 
to the spirit that move in man on whom all world depend be glory since our world begin and service to the end. 
the holy war. 

for here lay the excellent wisdom of him that build mansoul that the wall could never be break down nor hurt by the most mighty adverse potentate unless the townsman give consent thereto bunyan s holy war. 
a tinker out of bedford a vagrant oft in quod a private under fairfax a minister of god two hundred year and thirty ere armageddon come his single hand portray it and bunyan be his name. 
he map for those who follow the world in which we be this famous town of mansoul that take the holy war her true and traitor people the gate along her wall from eye gate unto feel gate john bunyan show them all. 
all enemy division recruit of every class and highly screen position for flame or poison gas the craft that we call modern the crime that we call new john bunyan have em type and file in sixteen eighty two. 
likewise the lord of loosen that hamper faith and work the perseverance doubter and present comfort shirk with brittle intellectual who crack beneath a strain john bunyan meet that helpful set in charles the second s reign. 
emmanuel s vanguard die for right and not for right my lord apollyon lie to the state keep stockholmites the pope the swithering neutral the kaiser and his gott their rôles their goal their naked soul he know and draw the lot. 
now he hath leave his quarter in bunhill field to lie. the wisdom that he teach u be prove prophecy one watchword through our army one answer from our land no dealing with diabolus a long a mansoul stand. 
a pedlar from a hovel the low of the low the father of the novel salvation s first defoe eight blind generation ere armageddon come he show u how to meet it and bunyan be his name. 
the house. 
a song of the dominion. 

twixt my house and thy house the pathway be broad in thy house or my house be half the world s hoard. by my house and thy house hang all the world s fate on thy house and my house lie half the world s hate. 
for my house and thy house no help shall we find save thy house and my house kin cleave to kind. if my house be take thine tumbleth anon if thy house be forfeit mine followeth soon. 
twixt my house and thy house what talk can there be of headship or lordship or service or fee. since my house to thy house no great can send than thy house to my house friend comfort friend. and thy house to my house no mean can bring than my house to thy house king counsel king. 
russia to the pacifist. 
god rest you peaceful gentleman let nothing you dismay but leave your sport a little while the dead be bear this way. army dead and city dead past all count or care. god rest you merry gentleman what portent see you there. sing. break grind for a weary host that have no grind to keep. give them the rest that they covet most and who shall next to sleep good sir in such a trench to sleep. 
god rest you peaceful gentleman but give u leave to pas. we go to dig a nation s grave a great a england be. for this kingdom and this glory and this power and this pride three hundred year it flourish in three hundred day it die. sing pour oil for a freeze throng that lie about the way. give them the warmth they have lack so long and what shall be next to blaze good sir on such a pyre to blaze. 
god rest you thoughtful gentleman and send your sleep be light. remain of this dominion no shadow sound or sight except the sound of weep and the sight of burn fire and the shadow of a people that be trample into mire. sing. break bread for a starve folk that perish in the field. give them their food a they take the yoke. and who shall be next to yield good sir for such a bribe to yield. 
god rest you merry gentleman and keep you in your mirth. be ever kingdom turn so soon to ash blood and earth. twixt the summer and the snow seed time and frost arm and victual hope and counsel name and country lose. sing. let down by the foot and the head shovel and smooth it all. so do we bury a nation dead. and who shall be next to fall good sir with your good help to fall. 
the irish guard. 

we re not so old in the army list but we re not so young at our trade for we have the honour at fontenoy of meet the guard brigade. twas lally dillon bulkeley clare and lee that lead u then and after a hundred and seventy year we re fight for france again. old day. the wild goose be flight head to the storm a they face it before. for where there be irish there s bind to be fight and when there s no fight it s ireland no more. ireland no more. 
the fashion s all for khaki now but once through france we go full dress in scarlet army cloth the english leave at ghent they re fight on our side to day. but before they change their clothe the half of europe know our fame a all of ireland know. old day. the wild goose be fly head to the storm a they face it before. for where there be irish there s memory undying and when we forget it be ireland no more. ireland no more. 
from barry wood to gouzeaucourt from boyne to pilkem ridge the ancient day come back no more than water under the bridge but the bridge it stand and the water run a red a yesterday and the irish move to the sound of the gun like salmon to the sea. old day. the wild goose be range head to the storm a they face it before. for where there be irish their heart be unchanging and when they be change it be ireland no more. ireland no more. 
we re not so old in the army list but we re not so new in the ring for we carry our pack with marshal saxe when louis be our king. but douglas haig s our marshal now and we re king george s men and after one hundred and seventy year we re fight for france again. ah france. and do we stand by you when life be make splendid with gift and reward. ah france. and will we deny you in the hour of your agony mother of sword. old day. the wild goose be flight head to the storm a they face it before. for where there be irish there s love and fight and when we stop either it s ireland no more. ireland no more. 
a nativity. 

the babe be lay in the manger between the gentle kine all safe from cold and danger but it be not so with mine. with mine. with mine. be it well with the child be it well. the wait mother pray. for i know not how he fell and i know not where he be lay. 
a star stand forth in heaven the watcher run to see the sign of the promise give but there come no sign to me. to me. to me. my child die in the dark. be it well with the child be it well. there be none to tend him or mark and i know not how he fell. 
the cross be raise on high. the mother grieve beside but the mother saw him die and take him when he die. he die. he die. seemly and undefiled his burial place be make be it well be it well with the child. for i know not where he be lay. 
on the dawn of easter day come mary magdalene. but the stone be roll away and the body be not within. within. within. ah who will answer my word. the break mother pray. they have take away my lord and i know not where he be lay. 
* * * * *. 
the star stand forth in heaven. the watcher watch in vain for a sign of the promise give of peace on earth again. again. again. but i know for whom he fell the steadfast mother smile be it well with the child be it well. it be well it be well with the child. 
en dor. 
behold there be a woman that hath a familiar spirit at en dor. 
samuel xxviii. 
the road to en dor be easy to tread for mother or yearn wife. there it be sure we shall meet our dead a they be even in life. earth ha not dream of the bless in store for desolate heart on the road to en dor. 
whisper shall comfort u out of the dark hand ah god. that we know. vision and voice look and heark. shall prove that our tale be true and that those who have pass to the further shore may be hail at a price on the road to en dor. 
but they be so deep in their new eclipse nothing they say can reach unless it be utter by alien lip and frame in a strange s speech. the son must send word to the mother that bore through an hireling s mouth. ti the rule of en dor. 
and not for nothing these gift be show by such a delight our dead. they must twitch and stiffen and slaver a groan ere the eye be set in the head and the voice from the belly begin. therefore we pay them a wage where they ply at en dor. 
even so we have need of faith and patience to follow the clue. often at first what the dear one saith be babble or jest or untrue. lie spirit perplex u sore till our love and our life be well know at en dor. 
oh the road to en dor be the old road and the crazy road of all. straight it run to the witch s abide a it do in the day of saul and nothing ha change of the sorrow in store for such a go down on the road to en dor. 
a recantation. 
to lyde of the music hall. 
what boot it on the god to call. since answer or unheard we perish with the god and all thing make except the word. 
ere certain fate have touch a heart by fifty year make cold i judge thee lyde and thy art o erblown and over bold. 
but he but he of whom bereft i suffer vacant day he on his shield not meanly leave he cherish all thy lay. 
witness the magic coffer stock with convolute rune wherein thy very voice be lock and link to circle tune. 
witness thy portrait smoke defile that deck his shelter place. life seem more present write the child beneath thy well know face. 
and when the grudge day restore him for a breath to home he with fresh crowd of youth adore thee make mirth in rome. 
therefore i humble join the host loyal and loud who bow to thee a queen of song and ghost for i remember how never more rampant rise the hall at thy audacious line than when the news come in from gaul thy son have follow mine. 
but thou didst hide it in thy breast and caper take the brunt of blaze and blare and launch the jest that sweep next week the front. 
singer to child. ours possess sleep before noon but thee wakeful each midnight for the rest no holocaust shall free. 
yet they who use the word assign to hearten and make whole not le than god have serve mankind though vulture rend their soul. 
my boy jack. 
have you news of my boy jack. not this tide. when d you think that he ll come back. not with this wind blow and this tide. 
ha any one else have word of him. not this tide. for what be sink will hardly swim not with this wind blow and this tide. 
oh dear what comfort can i find. none this tide nor any tide except he do not shame his kind not even with that wind blow and that tide. 
then hold your head up all the more this tide and every tide. because he be the son you bore and give to that wind blow and that tide. 
the verdict. 
jutland. 
not in the thick of the fight not in the press of the odds do the hero come to their height or we know the demi god. 
that stand over till peace. we can only perceive men return from the sea very grateful for leave. 
they grant u sudden day snatch from their business of war. but we be too close to appraise what manner of men they be. 
and whether their name go down with age keep victory or whether they battle and drown unreckoned be hide from our eye. 
they be too near to be great but our child shall understand when and how our fate be change and by whose hand. 
our child shall measure their worth. we be content to be blind but we know that we walk on a new bear earth with the saviour of mankind. 
mesopotamia. 

they shall not return to u the resolute the young the eager and whole hearted whom we give. but the men who leave them thriftily to die in their own dung shall they come with year and honour to the grave. 
they shall not return to u the strong men coldly slay in sight of help deny from day to day. but the men who edge their agony and chide them in their pain be they too strong and wise to put away. 
our dead shall not return to u while day and night divide never while the bar of sunset hold. but the idle mind overlings who quibble while they die shall they thrust for high employment a of old. 
shall we only threaten and be angry for an hour. when the storm be end shall we find how softly but how swiftly they have sidle back to power by the favour and contrivance of their kind. 
even while they soothe u while they promise large amend even while they make a show of fear do they call upon their debtor and take council with their friend to confirm and re establish each career. 
their life cannot repay u their death could not undo the shame that they have lay upon our race. but the slothfulness that waste and the arrogance that slew shall we leave it unabated in it place. 
the hyænas. 
after the burial party leave and the baffle kite have flee the wise hyænas come out at eve to take account of our dead. 
how he die and why he die trouble them not a whit. they snout the bush and stone aside and dig till they come to it. 
they be only resolute they shall eat that they and their mate may thrive and they know that the dead be safe meat than the weak thing alive. 
for a goat may butt and a worm may sting and a child will sometimes stand. but a poor dead soldier of the king can never lift a hand. 
they whoop and halloo and scatter the dirt until their tush white take good hold in the army shirt and tug the corpse to light. 
and the pitiful face be shew again for an instant ere they close. but it be not discover to live men only to god and to those. 
who be soulless be free from shame whatever meat they may find. nor do they defile the dead man s name that be reserve for his kind. 
the spy march. 
before the war. 
the outbreak be in full swing and our death rate would sicken napoleon. dr m die last week and c on monday but some more medicine be come. we don t seem to be able to check it at all. village panic badly. in some place not a live soul. but at any rate the experience gain may come in useful so i be keep my note write up to date in case of accident. death be a queer chap to live with for steady company. extract from a private letter from manchuria. 
there be no leader to lead u to honour and yet without leader we sally each man report for duty alone out of sight out of reach of his fellow. there be no bugle to call the battalion and yet without bugle we rally from the end of the earth to the end of the earth to follow the standard of yellow. fall in. o fall in. o fall in. 
not where the squadron mass not where the bayonet shine not where the big shell shout a they pas over the fire line. not where the wound be not where the nation die kill in the cleanly game of war that be no place for a spy. o prince throne and power your work be le than ours here be no place for a spy. 
train to another use we march with colour furl only concern when death break loose on a front of half a world. only for general death the yellow flag may fly while we take post beneath that be the place for a spy. where plague ha spread his pinion over nation and dominion then will be work for a spy. 
the drop shot begin the single funeral pas our skirmisher run in the corps dot the grass. the howl town stampede the taint hamlet die. now it be war indeed now there be room for a spy. o people king and land we be wait your command what be the work for a spy. drum. fear be upon u spy. 
go where his picket hide unmask the shape they take whether a gnat from the waterside or sting fly in the brake or filth of the crowd street or a sick rat limp by or a smear of spittle dry in the heat that be the work of a spy. drum. death be upon u spy. 
what doe he next prepare. whence will he move to attack. by water earth or air. how can we head him back. shall we starve him out if we burn or bury his food supply. slip through his line and learn that be work for a spy. drum. get to your business spy. 
doe he feint or strike in force. will he charge or ambuscade. what be it check his course. be he beat or only delay. how long will the lull endure. be he retreat. why. crawl to his camp and make sure that be the work for a spy. drum. fetch u our answer spy. 
ride with him girth to girth wherever the pale horse wheel wait on his council ear to earth and say what the dust reveal. for the smoke of our torment roll where the burn thousand lie. what do we care for men s body or soul. bring u deliverance spy. 
the son of martha. 
the son of mary seldom bother for they have inherit that good part but the son of martha favour their mother of the careful soul and the trouble heart. and because she lose her temper once and because she be rude to the lord her guest her son must wait upon mary s son world without end reprieve or rest. 
it be their care in all the age to take the buffet and cushion the shock. it be their care that the gear engage. it be their care that the switch lock. it be their care that the wheel run truly. it be their care to embark and entrain tally transport and deliver duly the son of mary by land and main. 
they say to mountain be ye removèd. they say to the less flood be dry. under their rod be the rock reprovèd they be not afraid of that which be high. then do the hill top shake to the summit then be the bed of the deep lay bare that the son of mary may overcome it pleasantly sleep and unaware. 
they finger death at their glove end where they piece and repiece the live wire. he rear against the gate they rend. they fee him hungry behind their fire. early at dawn ere men see clear they stumble into his terrible stall and hale him forth like a halter steer and goad and turn him till evenfall. 
to these from birth be belief forbid. from these till death be relief afar. they be concern with matter hide under the earth line their altar be. the secret fountain to follow up water withdraw to restore to the mouth and gather the flood a in a cup and pour them again at a city s drouth. 
they do not preach that their god will rouse them a little before the nut work loose. they do not teach that his pity allow them to leave their work when they damn well choose. a in the throng and the light way so in the dark and the desert they stand wary and watchful all their day that their brother s day may be long in the land. 
raise ye the stone or cleave the wood to make a path more fair or flat lo it be black already with blood some son of martha spill for that. not a a ladder from earth to heaven not a a witness to any creed but simple service simply give to his own kind in their common need. 
and the son of mary smile and be blessèd they know the angel be on their side. they know in them be the grace confessèd and for them be the mercy multiply. they sit at the foot they hear the word they see how truly the promise run. they have cast their burden upon the lord and the lord he lay it on martha s son. 
mary s son. 
if you stop to find out what your wage will be and how they will clothe and fee you willie my son don t you go on the sea for the sea will never need you. 
if you ask for the reason of every command and argue with people about you willie my son don t you go on the land for the land will do good without you. 
if you stop to consider the work you have do and to boast what your labour be worth dear angel may come for you willie my son but you ll never be want on earth dear. 
the song of the lathe. 

be the word of the tune hum at her lathe by mr. l. embsay widow. 
the fan and the belting they roar round me. the power be shake the floor round me till the lathe pick up their duty and the midnight shift take over. it be good for me to be here. 
gun in flanders flanders gun. i have a man that work em once. shell for gun in flanders flanders. shell for gun in flanders flanders. shell for gun in flanders. fee the gun. 
the crane and the carrier they boom over me the bay and the gallery they loom over me with their quarter mile of pillar grow little in the distance. it be good for me to be here. 
the zeppelin and gothas they raid over u. our light give warn and fade over u. seven thousand woman keep quiet in the darkness. oh it be good for me to be here. 
the roof and the building they grow round me eat up the field i use to know round me. and the shed that i begin in be a sub inspector s office so long have i be here. 
i ve see six hundred morning make our lamp grow dim through the bite that isn t paint round our skylight rim and the sunshine in the window slope accord to the season twice since i ve be here. 
the train on the siding they call to u with the hundred thousand blank that they haul to u. and we send em what we ve finish and they take it where it s want for that be why we be here. 
man s hate pass a his love will pas. god make woman what she always be. them that bear the burden they will never grant forgiveness so long a they be here. 
once i be a woman but that s by with me. all i love and look for it must die with me. but the lord ha leave me over for a servant of the judgment and i serve his judgment here. 
gun in flanders flanders gun. i have a son that work em once. shell for gun in flanders flanders. shell for gun in flanders flanders. shell for gun in flanders. fee the gun. 
gethsemane. 
the garden call gethsemane in picardy it be and there the people come to see the english soldier pas. we use to pas we use to pas or halt a it might be and ship our mask in case of gas beyond gethsemane. 
the garden call gethsemane it hold a pretty lass but all the time she talk to me i pray my cup might pas. the officer sit on the chair the men lay on the grass and all the time we halt there i pray my cup might pas. 
it didn t pas it didn t pas it didn t pas from me. i drink it when we meet the gas beyond gethsemane. 
the pro consul. 
the overfaithful sword return the user his heart s desire at price of his heart s blood. the clamour of the arrogant accuser waste that one hour we need to make good. this be foretell of old at our outgo. this we accept who have squander know the strength and glory of our reputation at the day s need a it be dross to guard the tender and new dedicate foundation against the sea we fear not man s award. 
they that dig foundation deep fit for realm to rise upon little honour do they reap of their generation any more than mountain gain stature till we reach the plain. 
with no veil before their face such a shroud or sceptre lend daily in the market place of one height to foe and friend they must cheapen self to find end uncheapened for mankind. 
through the night when hireling rest sleepless they arise alone the unsleeping arch to test and the o er trust corner stone gainst the need they know that lie hide behind the century. 
not by lust of praise or show not by peace herself betray peace herself must they forego till that peace be fitly make. and in single strength uphold weary hand and heart acold. 
on the stage their act hath frame for thy sport o liberty. doubt be they and defame by the tongue their act set free while they quicken tend and raise power that must their power displace. 
less men feign great goal fail whereof they may sit scholarly to judge the soul that go down into the pit and despite it certain clay heave a new world towards the day. 
these at labour make no sign more than planet tide or year which discover god s design not our hope and not our fear. nor in aught they gain or lose seek a triumph or excuse. 
for so the ark be bear to zion who heed how they perish or be pay that bore it. for so the shrine abide what shame what pride if we the priest be bind or crown before it. 
the craftsman. 
once after long draw revel at the mermaid he to the overbear boanerges jonson utter. if half of it be liquor bless be the vintage. 
say how at an alehouse under cotswold he have make sure of his very cleopatra drink with enormous salvation contemn love for a tinker. 
how while he hide from sir thomas s keeper crouch in a ditch and drench by the midnight dew he have listen to gipsy juliet rail at the dawn. 
how at bankside a boy drown kitten wince at the business. whereupon his sister. lady macbeth age seven. thrust em under sombrely scornful. 
how on a sabbath hush and compassionate she be know since her birth to the townsfolk stratford dredge and deliver from avon drip ophelia. 
so with a thin third finger marry drop to wine drop domed on the table shakespeare open his heart till sunrise enter to hear him. 
london waken and he imperturbable pass from wake to hurry after shadow. busy upon show of no earthly importance. yes but he know it. 
thing and the man. 
in memoriam joseph chamberlain. 

and joseph dream a dream and he tell it his brother. and they hat him yet the more. genesis xxxvii. 
oh ye who hold the write clue to all save all unwritten thing and half a league behind pursue the accomplish fact with flout and fling look. to your knee your baby bring the old tale since earth begin the answer to your worrying once on a time there be a man. 
he single hand meet and slew magician army ogre king. he lonely mid his doubt crew in all the loneliness of wing he feed the flame he fill the spring he lock the rank he launch the van straight at the grin teeth of thing. once on a time there be a man. 
the peace of shock foundation fly before his ribald questioning. he break the oracle in two and bar the paltry wire and string. he head desert wandering he lead his soul his cause his clan a little from the ruck of thing. once on a time there be a man. 
throne power dominion block the view with episode and underling the meek historian deem them true nor heed the song that clio sing the simple central truth that sting the mob to boo the priest to ban. thing never yet create thing once on a time there be a man. 
a bolt be fall from the blue. a waken realm full circle swing where dothan s dreamer dream anew of vast and farborne harvesting. and unto him an empire cling that grip the purpose of his plan. my lord how think you of these thing. once in our time be there a man. 
the benefactor. 
ah. what avail the classic bend and what the culture word against the undoctored incident that actually occur. 
and what be art whereto we press through paint and prose and rhyme when nature in her nakedness defeat u every time. 
it be not learn grace nor gear nor easy meat and drink but bitter pinch of pain and fear that make creation think. 
when in this world s unpleasing youth our god like race begin the long arm the sharp tooth give man control of man. 
till bruise and bite to the bone and teach by pain and fear he learn to deal the far off stone and poke the long safe spear. 
so tooth and nail be obsolete a mean against a foe till bore by uniform defeat some genius build the bow. 
then stone and javelin prove a vain a old time tooth and nail ere spur anew by fear and pain man fashion coat of mail. 
then be there safety for the rich and danger for the poor till someone mix a powder which redress the scale once more. 
helmet and armour disappear with sword and bow and pike and when the smoke of battle clear all men be arm alike. 
and when ten million such be slay to please one crazy king man school in bulk by fear and pain grow weary of the thing. 
and at the very hour design to enslave him past recall his tooth stone arrow gun shy mind turn and abolish all. 
* * * * *. 
all power each tyrant every mob whose head ha grow too large end by destroy it own job and earn it own discharge. 
and man whose mere necessity move all thing from his path tremble meanwhile at their decree and deprecate their wrath. 
the dead king. 
edward vii. 

who in the realm to day lay down dear life for the sake of a land more dear. and unconcerned for his own estate toil till the last grudge sand have run. let him approach. it be prove here our king ask nothing of any man more than our king himself ha do. 
for to him above all be life good above all he command her abundance full hand. the peculiar treasure of king be his for the take. all that men come to in dream he inherit wake. 
his marvel of world gather army one heart and all race his sea neath his keel when his war castle foam to their place. the thunder foreshore that answer his herald land. the huge light city adore the assembly upstanding. the council of king call in haste to learn how he be mind the kingdom the power and the glory he deal with unblinded. 
to him come all captain of men all achiever of glory hot from the press of their battle they tell him their story. they reveal him their life in an hour and salute depart joyful to labour afresh he have make them new hearted. and since he weigh men from his youth and no lie long deceive him he speak and exact the truth and the base believe him. 
and god pour him an exquisite wine that be daily renew to him in the clear well love of his people that daily accrue to him. honour and service we give him rejoicingly fearless. faith absolute trust beyond speech and a friendship a peerless. and since he be master and servant in all that we ask him we lean hard on his wisdom in all thing know not how we task him. 
for on him each new day lay command every tyrannous hour to confront or confirm or make smooth some dread issue of power. to deliver true judgment aright at the instant unaided in the strict level ultimate phrase that allow or dissuade. to foresee to allay to avert from u peril unnumbered to stand guard on our gate when he guess that the watchman have slumber. to win time to turn hate to woo folly to service and mightily school his strength to the use of his nation to rule a not rule. these be the work of our king. earth s peace be the proof of them. god give him great work to fulfil and to u the behoof of them. we accept his toil a our right none spar none excuse him. when he be bow by his burden his rest be refuse him. we trouble his age with our weakness the black our shame to u. hear his people have need of him straightway he come to u. 
a he receive so he give nothing grudge naught deny not even the last gasp of his breath when he strive for u die for our sake without question he put from him all that he cherish. simply a any that serve him he serve and he perish. all that king covet be his and he fling it aside for u. simply a any that die in his service he die for u. 
who in the realm to day ha choice of the easy road or the hard to tread. and much concern for his own estate would sell his soul to remain in the sun. let him depart nor look on our dead. our king ask nothing of any man more than our king himself ha do. 
a death bed. 
this be the state above the law. the state exist for the state alone. [_this be a gland at the back of the jaw and an answer lump by the collar bone. ]. 
some die shout in gas or fire. some die silent by shell and shoot. some die desperate catch on the wire. some die suddenly. this will not. 
regis suprema voluntas lex. [_it will follow the regular course of throat. ] some die pin by the break deck some die sob between the boat. 
some die eloquent press to death by the slide trench a their friend can hear. some die wholly in half a breath some give trouble for half a year. 
there be neither evil nor good in life except a the need of the state ordain. [_since it be rather too late for the knife all we can do be to mask the pain. ]. 
some die saintly in faith and hope one die thus in a prison yard some die break by rape or the rope. some die easily. this dy hard. 
i will dash to piece who bar my way. woe to the traitor. woe to the weak. [_let him write what he wish to say. it tire him out if he try to speak. ]. 
some die quietly. some abound in loud self pity. others spread bad morale through the cot around. this be a type that be good dead. 
the war be force on me by my foe. all that i seek be the right to live. [_don t be afraid of a triple dose. the pain will neutralize half we give. 
here be the needle. see that he dy while the effect of the drug endure. what be the question he ask with his eye. yes all high to god be sure. ]. 
gehazi. 
whence comest thou gehazi so reverend to behold in scarlet and in ermine and chain of england s gold. from follow after naaman to tell him all be well whereby my zeal hath make me a judge in israel. 
well do well do gehazi stretch forth thy ready hand thou barely scaped from judgment take oath to judge the land unswayed by gift of money or privy bribe more base of knowledge which be profit in any market place. 
search out and probe gehazi a thou of all canst try the truthful well weigh answer that tell the black lie the loud uneasy virtue the anger feign at will to overbear a witness and make the court keep still. 
take order now gehazi that no man talk aside in secret with his judge the while his case be try. l he should show them reason to keep a matter hide and subtly lead the question away from what he do. 
thou mirror of uprightness what ail thee at thy vow. what mean the rise whiten of the skin between thy brow. the boil that shine and burrow the sore that slough and bleed the leprosy of naaman on thee and all thy seed. stand up stand up gehazi draw close thy robe and go gehazi judge in israel a leper white a snow. 
the virginity. 
try a he will no man break wholly loose from his first love no matter who she be. oh be there ever sailor free to choose that didn t settle somewhere near the sea. 
myself it don t excite me nor amuse to watch a pack o ship on the sea but i can understand my neighbour s view from certain thing which have occur to me. 
men must keep touch with thing they use to use to earn their live even when they be free. and so come back upon the least excuse same a the sailor settle near the sea. 
he know he s never go on no cruise he know he s do and finish with the sea and yet he like to feel she s there to use if he should ask her a she use to be. 
even though she cost him all he have to lose even though she make him sick to hear or see still what she leave of him will mostly choose her skirt to sit by. how come such to be. 
parson in pulpit tax payer in pew king on your throne you know a well a me we ve only one virginity to lose and where we lose it there our heart will be. 
a pilgrim s way. 
i do not look for holy saint to guide me on my way or male and female devilkins to lead my foot astray. if these be add i rejoice if not i shall not mind so long a i have leave and choice to meet my fellow kind. for a we come and a we go. and deadly soon go we. the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
thus i will honour pious men whose virtue shine so bright. though none be more amaze than i when i by chance do right. and i will pity foolish men for woe their sin have breed. though ninety nine per cent. of mine i bring on my own head. and amorite or eremite or general averagee the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
and when they bore me overmuch i will not shake mine ear recall many thousand such whom i have bore to tear. and when they labour to impress i will not doubt nor scoff. since i myself have do no le and sometimes pull it off. yea a we be and we be not and we pretend to be the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
and when they work me random wrong a often time hath be i will not cherish hate too long. my hand be none too clean. and when they do me random good i will not feign surprise no more than those whom i have cheer with wayside charity. but a we give and a we take whate er our taking be the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
but when i meet with frantic folk who sinfully declare there be no pardon for their sin the same i will not spare till i have prove that heaven and hell which in our heart we have show nothing irredeemable on either side the grave. for a we live and a we die if utter death there be the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
deliver me from every pride the middle high and low that bar me from a brother s side whatever pride he show. and purge me from all heresy of think and speech and pen that bid me judge him otherwise than i be judge. amen. that i may sing of crowd or king or road bear company that i may labour in my day vocation and degree to prove the same in deed and name and hold unshakenly. where er i go whate er i know whoe er my neighbour be. this single faith in life and death and all eternity the people lord thy people be good enough for me. 
the old song. 
for before eve be lilith old tale. 
these be never your true love s eye. why do you feign that you love them. you that break from their constancy and the wide calm brow above them. 
this be never your true love s speech. why do you thrill when you hear it. you that have ride out of it reach the width of the world or near it. 
this be never your true love s hair you that chafe when it bind you screen from knowledge or shame or care in the night that it make around you. 
all these thing i know i know. and that s why my heart be break. then what do you gain by pretend so. the joy of an old wind wake. 
natural theology. 
primitive. 
i eat my fill of a whale that die and strand after a month at sea. there be a pain in my inside. why have the god afflict me. ow. i be purge till i be a wraith. wow. i be sick till i cannot see. what be the sense of religion and faith. look how the god have afflict me. 
pagan. 
how can the skin of rat or mouse hold anything more than a harmless flea. the burn plague ha take my household. why have my god afflict me. 
all my kith and kin be decease though they be a good a good could be. i will out and batter the family priest because my god have afflict me. 
mediæval. 
my privy and well drain into each other after the custom of christendie. fever and flux be waste my mother. why ha the lord afflict me. the saint be helpless for all i offer so be the clergy i use to fee henceforward i keep my cash in my coffer because the lord ha afflict me. 
material. 
i run eight hundred hen to the acre. they die by dozen mysteriously. i be more than doubtful concern my maker. why ha the lord afflict me. what a return for all my endeavour not to mention the l. s. d. i be an atheist now and for ever because this god ha afflict me. 
progressive. 
money spend on an army or fleet be homicidal lunacy. my son ha be kill in the mon retreat. why be the lord afflict me. why be murder pillage and arson and rape allow by the deity. i will write to the times_ deride our parson because my god ha afflict me. 
chorus. 
we have a kettle we let it leak. our not repair it make it bad. we haven t have any tea for a week. the bottom be out of the universe. 
conclusion. 
this be none of the good lord s pleasure for the spirit he breathe in man be free. but what come after be measure for measure and not a god that afflicteth thee. a be the sow so the reap be now and evermore shall be. thou art deliver to thy own keep. only thyself hath afflict thee. 
a song at cock crow. 
ille autem iterum negavit. 
the first time that peter deniéd his lord he shrink from the cudgel the scourge and the cord but follow far off to see what they would do till the cock crew till the cock crew after gethsemane till the cock crew. 
the first time that peter deniéd his lord twas only a maid in the palace who hear a he sit by the fire and warm himself through. then the cock crew. then the cock crew. thou also art one of them. then the cock crew. 
the first time that peter deniéd his lord he have neither the throne nor the key nor the sword a poor silly fisherman what could he do when the cock crew when the cock crew but weep for his wickedness when the cock crew. 
* * * * *. 
the next time that peter deniéd his lord he be fisher of men a foretell by the word with the crown on his brow and the cross on his shoe when the cock crew when the cock crew in flanders and picardy when the cock crew. 
the next time that peter deniéd his lord twas mary the mother in heaven who hear and she grieve for the maiden and wife that they slew when the cock crew when the cock crew at tirmonde and aerschott when the cock crew. 
the next time that peter deniéd his lord the babe in the manger awaken and stir and he stretch out his arm for the playmate he know when the cock crew when the cock crew but the water have cover them when the cock crew. 
the next time that peter deniéd his lord twas earth in her agony wait his word but he sit by the fire and naught would he do though the cock crew though the cock crew over all christendom though the cock crew. 
the last time that peter deniéd his lord the father take from him the key and the sword and the mother and babe brake his kingdom in two when the cock crew when the cock crew. because of his wickedness. when the cock crew. 
the female of the specie. 

when the himalayan peasant meet the he bear in his pride he shout to scare the monster who will often turn aside. but the she bear thus accost rend the peasant tooth and nail for the female of the specie be more deadly than the male. 
when nag the bask cobra hear the careless foot of man he will sometimes wriggle sideways and avoid it a he can. but his mate make no such motion where she camp beside the trail. for the female of the specie be more deadly than the male. 
when the early jesuit father preach to huron and choctaw they pray to be deliver from the vengeance of the squaw. twas the woman not the warrior turn those stark enthusiast pale for the female of the specie be more deadly than the male. 
man s timid heart be burst with the thing he must not say for the woman that god give him isn t his to give away. but when hunter meet with husband each confirm the other s tale the female of the specie be more deadly than the male. 
man a bear in most relation worm and savage otherwise man propound negotiation man accept the compromise. very rarely will he squarely push the logic of a fact to it ultimate conclusion in unmitigated act. 
fear or foolishness impel him ere he lay the wicked low to concede some form of trial even to his fierce foe. mirth obscene divert his anger. doubt and pity oft perplex him in deal with an issue to the scandal of the sex. 
but the woman that god give him every fibre of her frame prof her launch for one sole issue arm and engined for the same. and to serve that single issue l the generation fail the female of the specie must be deadly than the male. 
she who face death by torture for each life beneath her breast may not deal in doubt or pity must not swerve for fact or jest. these be purely male diversion not in these her honour dwell. she the other law we live by be that law and nothing else. 
she can bring no more to live than the power that make her great a the mother of the infant and the mistress of the mate. and when babe and man be lack and she stride unclaimed to claim her right a femme. and baron. her equipment be the same. 
she be wed to conviction in default of gross tie. her contention be her child heaven help him who deny. he will meet no suave discussion but the instant white hot wild waken female of the specie war a for spouse and child. 
unprovoked and awful charge even so the she bear fight speech that drip corrode and poison even so the cobra bite scientific vivisection of one nerve till it be raw and the victim writhe in anguish like the jesuit with the squaw. 
so it come that man the coward when he gather to confer with his fellow brave in council dare not leave a place for her where at war with life and conscience he uplift his err hand to some god of abstract justice which no woman understand. 
and man know it. know moreover that the woman that god give him must command but may not govern shall enthral but not enslave him. and she know because she warn him and her instinct never fail that the female of her specie be more deadly than the male. 
epitaph. 
equality of sacrifice. 
a. i be a have. b. i be a have not. together. what hast thou give which i give not. 
a servant. 
we be together since the war begin he be my servant and the good man. 
a son. 
my son be kill while laugh at some jest. i would i know what it be and it might serve me in a time when jest be few. 
an only son. 
i have slay none except my mother she. bless her slayer. die of grief for me. 
ex clerk. 
pity not. the army give freedom to a timid slave. in which freedom do he find strength of body will and mind. by which strength he come to prove mirth companionship and love. for which love to death he go. in which death he lie content. 
the wonder. 
body and spirit i surrender whole to harsh instructor and receive a soul. if mortal man could change me through and through from all i be what may the god not do. 
hindu sepoy in france. 
this man in his own country pray we know not to what power. we pray them to reward him for his bravery in ours. 
the coward. 
i could not look on death which be know men lead me to him blindfold and alone. 
shock. 
my name my speech my self i have forget. my wife and child come i know them not. i die. my mother follow. at her call and on her bosom i remember all. 
a grave near cairo. 
god of the nile should this stout fellow here get out get out. he know not shame nor fear. 
pelican in the wilderness. 
a grave near halfa. 
the blow sand heap on me that none may learn where i be lay for whom my child grieve. o wing that beat at dawn ye return out of the desert to your young at eve. 
the favour. 
death favour me from the first well know i could not endure to wait on him day by day. he quit my better and come whistle over the field and when he have make all sure thy line be at end he say but at least i have save it name. 
the beginner. 
on the first hour of my first day in the front trench i fell. child in box at a play stand up to watch it well. 
r. a. f. age eighteen. 
laugh through cloud his milk teeth still unshed city and men he smite from overhead. his death deliver he return to play childlike with childish thing now put away. 
the refine man. 
i be of delicate mind. i go aside for my need disdain the common office. i be see from afar and kill. how be this matter for mirth. let each man be judge by his deed i have pay my price to live with myself on the term that i will. 
native water carrier. m. e. f. 
prometheus bring down fire to men. this bring up water. the god be jealous now a then they give no quarter. 
bomb in london. 
on land and sea i strive with anxious care to escape conscription. it be in the air. 
the sleepy sentinel. 
faithless the watch that i keep. now i have none to keep. i be slay because i sleep. now i be slay i sleep. let no man reproach me again whatever watch be unkept i sleep because i be slay. they slew me because i sleep. 
battery out of ammunition. 
if any mourn u in the workshop say we die because the shift keep holiday. 
common form. 
if any question why we die tell them because our father lie. 
a dead statesman. 
i could not dig. i dare not rob. therefore i lie to please the mob. now all my lie be prove untrue and i must face the men i slew. what tale shall save me here among mine angry and defraud young. 
the rebel. 
if i have clamour at thy gate for gift of life on earth and thrust through the soul that wait fling headlong into birth even then even then for gin and snare about my pathway spread lord i have mock thy thoughtful care before i join the dead. but now. i be beneath thy hand ere yet the planet come. and now though planet pas i stand the witness to thy shame. 
the obedient. 
daily though no ear attend do my prayer arise daily though no fire descend do i sacrifice. though my darkness do not lift though i face no light odds though the god bestow no gift none the le none the le i serve the god. 
a drifter off tarentum. 
he from the wind bite north with ship and companion descend search for egg of death spawn by invisible hull. many he find and draw forth. of a sudden the fishery end in flame and a clamorous breath not new to the eye peck gull. 
destroyer in collision. 
for fog and fate no charm be find to lighten or amend. i hurry to my bride be drown cut down by my best friend. 
convoy escort. 
i be a shepherd to fool causelessly bold or afraid. they would not abide by my rule. yet they escape. for i stay. 
unknown female corpse. 
headless lack foot and hand horrible i come to land. i beseech all woman s son know i be a mother once. 
rap and revenge. 
one use and butcher me. another spy me break for which thing a hundred die. so it be learn among the heathen host how much a freeborn woman s favour cost. 
salonikan grave. 
i have watch a thousand day push out and crawl into night slowly a tortoise now i too follow these. it be fever and not fight time not battle that slay. 
the bridegroom. 
call me not false beloved if from thy scarce know breast so little time remove in other arm i rest. 
for this more ancient bride whom coldly i embrace be constant at my side before i saw thy face. 
our marriage often set by miracle delay at last be consummate and cannot be unmake. 
live then whom life shall cure almost of memory and leave u to endure it immortality. 
v. a. d. mediterranean. 
ah would swift ship have never be for then we ne er have find these harsh ægean rock between this little virgin drown whom neither spouse nor child shall mourn but men she nurse through pain and certain keel for whose return the heathen look in vain. 
the city of brass. 

here be a people whom after their work thou shalt see weep over for their lose dominion. and in this palace be the last information respect lord collect in the dust. 
the arabian night. 
in a land that the sand overlay the way to her gate be untrod a multitude end their day whose fate be make splendid by god till they grow drink and be smite with madness and go to their fall and of these be a story write. but allah alone knoweth all. 
when the wine stir in their heart their bosom dilate they rise to suppose themselves king over all thing create to decree a new earth at a birth without labour or sorrow to declare. we prepare it to day and inherit to morrow. they choose themselves prophet and priest of minute understand men swift to see do and outrun their extreme command of the tribe which describe with a jibe the perversion of justice pander avow to the crowd whatsoever it lust be. 
swiftly these pull down the wall that their father have make them the impregnable rampart of old they raze and relaid them a playground of pleasure and leisure with limitless entry and haven of rest for the wastrel where once walk the sentry. and because there be need of more pay for the shouter and marcher they disband in face of their foeman their bowman and archer. they reply to their well wishers fear to their enemy laughter say. peace. we have fashion a god which shall save u hereafter. we ascribe all dominion to man in his faction confer and have give to number the name of the wisdom unerring. they say. who ha hate in his soul. who ha envy his neighbour. let him arise and control both that man and his labour. they say. who be eat by sloth. whose unthrift ha destroy him. he shall levy a tribute from all because none have employ him. they say. who hath toil. who hath strive and gather possession. let him be spoil. he hath give full proof of transgression. they say. who be irk by the law. though we may not remove it if he lend u his aid in this raid we will set him above it. so the robber do judgment again upon such a displease him the slayer too boast his slay and the judge release him. 
a for their kinsman far off on the skirt of the nation they harry all earth to make sure none escape reprobation they awaken unrest for a jest in their newly win border and jeer at the blood of their brother betray by their order. they instruct the rule to rebel their ruler to aid them. and since such a obey them not fell their viceroy obey them. when the riotous set them at naught they say. praise the upheaval. for the show and the word and the think of dominion be evil. 
they unwind and fling from them with rage a a rag that defile them the imperial gain of the age which their forefather pile them. they run pant in haste to lay waste and embitter for ever the wellspring of wisdom and strength which be faith and endeavour. they nose out and digged up and drag forth and expose to derision all doctrine of purpose and worth and restraint and prevision. and it cease and god grant them all thing for which they have strive and the heart of a beast in the place of a man s heart be give. 
* * * * *. 
when they be full of wine and most flagrant in error out of the sea rise a sign out of heaven a terror. then they saw then they hear then they know for none trouble to hide it an host have prepare their destruction but still they deny it. they deny what they dare not abide if it come to the trial but the sword that be forge while they lie do not heed their denial. it drive home and no time be allow to the crowd that be drive. the preposterous mind be cow they think time would be give. there be no need of a steed nor a lance to pursue them. it be decree their own deed and not chance should undo them the tare they have laughingly sow be ripe to the reap the trust they have league to disown be remove from their keep. the eater of other men s bread the exempt from hardship the excuser of impotence flee abdicate their wardship. for the hate they have teach through the state bring the state no defender and it pass from the roll of the nation in headlong surrender. 
justice. 
october. 
across a world where all men grieve and grieve strive the more the great day range like tide and leave our dead on every shore. heavy the load we undergo and our own hand prepare if we have parley with the foe the load our son must bear. 
before we loose the word that bid new world to birth need must we loosen first the sword of justice upon earth. or else all else be vain since life on earth begin and the spend world sink back again hopeless of god and man. 
a people and their king through ancient sin grow strong because they fear no reckon would set no bind to wrong. but now their hour be past and we who bore it find evil incarnate hold at last to answer to mankind. 
for agony and spoil of nation beat to dust for poison air and torture soil and cold command lust and every secret woe the shudder water saw will and fulfil by high and low let them relearn the law. 
that when the doom be read not high nor low shall say. my haughty or my humble head ha save me in this day. that till the end of time their remnant shall recall their father old confederate crime avail them not at all. 
that neither school nor priest nor king may build again a people with the heart of beast make wise concern men. whereby our dead shall sleep in honour unbetrayed and we in faith and honour keep that peace for which they pay. 
print by t and a constable printer to his majesty at the edinburgh university press. 
