with the night mail. 
a story of a. d. 
together with extract from the contemporary magazine in which it appear. 
book by rudyard kipling. 
brushwood boy the. 
captain courageous. 
collect verse. 
day s work the. 
departmental ditty and ballad and barrack room ballad. 
five nation the. 
jungle book the. 
jungle book second. 
just so song book. 
just so story. 
kim. 
kipling birthday book the. 
life s handicap. be story of mine own people. 
light that fail the. 
many invention. 
naulahka the. with wolcott balestier. 
plain tale from the hill. 
puck of pook s hill. 
sea to sea from. 
seven sea the. 
soldier story. 
soldier three the story of the gadsbys and in black and white. 
stalky & co. 
they. 
traffic and discovery. 
under the deodar the phantom rickshaw and wee willie winkie. 
[illustration. a man with a ghastly scarlet head follow shout that he must go back and build up his ray. ]. 
with the night mail. 
a story of a. d. 
together with extract from the contemporary magazine in which it appear. 
by rudyard kipling. 
illustrate in color. 
by frank x. leyendecker and h. reuterdahl. 
[decoration]. 
new york. 
doubleday page & company. 

all right reserve include that of translation into foreign language include the scandinavian. 
copyright by rudyard kipling publish march. 
reprint in book form by permission of the s. s. mcclure company. 
illustration. 
a man with a ghastly scarlet head follow shout that he must go back and build up his ray frontispiece. 
follow page. 
slide like a lose soul down that pitiless ladder of light and the atlantic take her. 
the storm. 
i ve ask him to tea on friday. 
with the night mail. 
a story of a. d. 
with the night mail. 
at nine o clock of a gusty winter night i stand on the low stage of one of the g. p. o. outward mail tower. my purpose be a run to quebec in postal packet or such other a may be appoint. and the postmaster general himself countersign the order. this talisman open all door even those in the despatch caisson at the foot of the tower where they be deliver the sort continental mail. the bag lay pack close a herring in the long gray under body which our g. p. o. still call coach. five such coach be fill a i watch and be shoot up the guide to be lock on to their wait packet three hundred foot near the star. 
from the despatch caisson i be conduct by a courteous and wonderfully learn official mr. l. l. geary second despatcher of the western route to the captain room. this wake an echo of old romance. where the mail captain come on for their turn of duty. he introduce me to the captain of captain purnall and his relief captain hodgson. the one be small and dark. the other large and red. but each ha the brood sheathe glance characteristic of eagle and aëronauts. you can see it in the picture of our race professional from l. v. rautsch to little ada warrleigh that fathomless abstraction of eye habitually turn through naked space. 
on the notice board in the captain room the pulse arrow of some twenty indicator register degree by geographical degree the progress of a many homeward bind packet. the word cape rise across the face of a dial. a gong strike. the south african mid weekly mail be in at the highgate receive tower. that be all. it remind one comically of the traitorous little bell which in pigeon fancier loft notify the return of a homer. 
time for u to be on the move say captain purnall and we be shoot up by the passenger lift to the top of the despatch tower. our coach will lock on when it be fill and the clerk be aboard. 
no. wait for u in slip e of the topmost stage. the great curve of her back shine frostily under the light and some minute alteration of trim make her rock a little in her hold down slip. 
captain purnall frown and dive inside. hiss softly come to rest a level a a rule. from her north atlantic winter nose cap. wear bright a diamond with bore through uncounted league of hail snow and ice. to the inset of her three build out propeller shaft be some two hundred and forty foot. her extreme diameter carry well forward be thirty seven. contrast this with the nine hundred by ninety five of any crack liner and you will realize the power that must drive a hull through all weather at more than the emergency speed of the cyclonic. 
the eye detect no joint in her skin plat save the sweep hair crack of the bow rudder magniac s rudder that assure u the dominion of the unstable air and leave it inventor penniless and half blind. it be calculate to castelli s gull wing curve. raise a few foot of that all but invisible plate three eighth of an inch and she will yaw five mile to port or starboard ere she be under control again. give her full helm and she return on her track like a whip lash. cant the whole forward a touch on the wheel will suffice and she sweep at your good direction up or down. open the complete circle and she present to the air a mushroom head that will bring her up all stand within a half mile. 
yes say captain hodgson answer my think castelli think he d discover the secret of control aëroplanes when he d only find out how to steer dirigible balloon. magniac invent his rudder to help war boat ram each other. and war go out of fashion and magniac he go out of his mind because he say he couldn t serve his country any more. i wonder if any of u ever know what we re really do. 
if you want to see the coach lock you d good go aboard. it s due now say mr. geary. i enter through the door amidships. there be nothing here for display. the inner skin of the gas tank come down to within a foot or two of my head and turn over just short of the turn of the bilge. liner and yacht disguise their tank with decoration but the g. p. o. serf them raw under a lick of gray official paint. the inner skin shut off fifty foot of the bow and a much of the stern but the bow bulkhead be recess for the lift shunt apparatus a the stern be pierce for the shaft tunnel. the engine room lie almost amidships. forward of it extend to the turn of the bow tank be an aperture a bottomless hatch at present into which our coach will be lock. one look down over the coaming three hundred foot to the despatch caisson whence voice boom upward. the light below be obscure to a sound of thunder a our coach rise on it guide. it enlarge rapidly from a postage stamp to a play card. to a punt and last a pontoon. the two clerk it crew do not even look up a it come into place. the quebec letter fly under their finger and leap into the docket rack while both captain and mr. geary satisfy themselves that the coach be lock home. a clerk pass the waybill over the hatch coaming. captain purnall thumb mark and pass it to mr. geary. receipt ha be give and take. pleasant run say mr. geary and disappear through the door which a foot high pneumatic compressor lock after him. 
a ah. sigh the compressor release. our hold down clip part with a tang. we be clear. 
captain hodgson open the great colloid underbody porthole through which i watch million light london slide eastward a the gale get hold of u. the first of the low winter cloud cut off the well know view and darken middlesex. on the south edge of it i can see a postal packet s light plough through the white fleece. for an instant she gleam like a star ere she drop toward the highgate receive tower. the bombay mail say captain hodgson and look at his watch. she s forty minute late. 
what s our level. i ask. 
four thousand. aren t you come up on the bridge. 
the bridge. let u ever bless the g. p. o. a a repository of ancient tradition. be represent by a view of captain hodgson s leg where he stand on the control platform that run thwartships overhead. the bow colloid be unshuttered and captain purnall one hand on the wheel be feel for a fair slant. the dial show foot. 
it s steep to night he mutter a tier on tier of cloud drop under. we generally pick up an easterly draught below three thousand at this time o the year. i hate slather through fluff. 
so doe van cutsem. look at him huntin for a slant. say captain hodgson. a fog light break cloud a hundred fathom below. the antwerp night mail make her signal and rise between two race cloud far to port her flank blood red in the glare of sheerness double light. the gale will have u over the north sea in half an hour but captain purnall let her go composedly nose to every point of the compass a she rise. 
five thousand six six thousand eight hundred the dip dial read ere we find the easterly drift herald by a flurry of snow at the thousand fathom level. captain purnall ring up the engine and key down the governor on the switch before him. there be no sense in urge machinery when æolus himself give you good knot for nothing. we be away in earnest now our nose notch home on our choose star. at this level the low cloud be lay out all neatly comb by the dry finger of the east. below that again be the strong westerly blow through which we rise. overhead a film of southerly drift mist draw a theatrical gauze across the firmament. the moonlight turn the low stratum to silver without a stain except where our shadow underruns u. bristol and cardiff double light. those statelily incline beam over severnmouth. be dead ahead of u. for we keep the southern winter route. coventry central the pivot of the english system stab upward once in ten second it spear of diamond light to the north. and a point or two off our starboard bow the leek the great cloud breaker of saint david s head swing it unmistakable green beam twenty five degree each way. there must be half a mile of fluff over it in this weather but it doe not affect the leek. 
our planet s overlighted if anything say captain purnall at the wheel a cardiff bristol slide under. i remember the old day of common white vertical that ud show two or three thousand foot up in a mist if you know where to look for em. in really fluffy weather they might a well have be under your hat. one could get lose come home then an have some fun. now it s like drive down piccadilly. 
he point to the pillar of light where the cloud breaker bore through the cloud floor. we see nothing of england s outline. only a white pavement pierce in all direction by these manhole of variously colour fire holy island s white and red st. bee s interrupt white and so on a far a the eye can reach. bless be sargent ahrens and the dubois brother who invent the cloud breaker of the world whereby we travel in security. 
be you go to lift for the shamrock. ask captain hodgson. cork light. green fix. enlarge a we rush to it. captain purnall nod. there be heavy traffic hereabouts the cloud bank beneath u be streak with run fissure of flame where the atlantic boat be hurry londonward just clear of the fluff. mail packet be suppose under the conference rule to have the five thousand foot lane to themselves but the foreigner in a hurry be apt to take liberty with english air. no. lift to a long draw wail of the breeze in the fore flange of the rudder and we make valencia. white green white. at a safe foot dip our beam to an incoming washington packet. 
there be no cloud on the atlantic and faint streak of cream round dingle bay show where the drive sea hammer the coast. a big s. a. t. a. liner. société anonyme de transport aëriens. be dive and lift half a mile below u in search of some break in the solid west wind. low still lie a disable dane. she be tell the liner all about it in international. our general communication dial ha catch her talk and begin to eavesdrop. captain hodgson make a motion to shut it off but check himself. perhaps you d like to listen he say. 
argol of st. thomas the dane whimper. report owner three starboard shaft collar bearing fuse. can make flores a we be but impossible further. shall we buy spare at fayal. 
the liner acknowledge and recommend invert the bearing. the argol answer that she ha already do so without effect and begin to relieve her mind about cheap german enamel for collar bearing. the frenchman assent cordially cry _courage mon ami_ and switch off. 
their light sink under the curve of the ocean. 
that s one of lundt & bleamers s boat say captain hodgson. serf em right for put german compos in their thrust block. she win t be in fayal to night. by the way wouldn t you like to look round the engine room. 
i have be wait eagerly for this invitation and i follow captain hodgson from the control platform stoop low to avoid the bulge of the tank. we know that fleury s gas can lift anything a the world famous trial of show but it almost indefinite power of expansion necessitate vast tank room. even in this thin air the lift shunt be busy take out one third of it normal lift and still must be check by an occasional downdraw of the rudder or our flight would become a climb to the star. captain purnall prefer an overlifted to an underlifted ship. but no two captain trim ship alike. when i take the bridge say captain hodgson you ll see me shunt forty per cent. of the lift out of the gas and run her on the upper rudder. with a swoop upwards instead of a swoop downwards a you say. either way will do. it s only habit. watch our dip dial. tim fetch her down once every thirty knot a regularly a breathe. 
so be it show on the dip dial. for five or six minute the arrow creep from to. there be the faint szgee of the rudder and back slide the arrow to on a fall slant of ten or fifteen knot. 
in heavy weather you jockey her with the screw a well say captain hodgson and unclipping the joint bar which divide the engine room from the bare deck he lead me on to the floor. 
here we find fleury s paradox of the bulkheaded vacuum which we accept now without think literally in full blast. the three engine be h. t. &. t. assist vacuo fleury turbine run from to the limit that be to say up to the point when the blade make the air bell cut out a vacuum for themselves precisely a over drive marine propeller use to do. s limit be low on account of the small size of her nine screw which though handy than the old colloid thelussons bell sooner. the midships engine generally use a a reinforce be not run. so the port and starboard turbine vacuum chamber draw direct into the return main. 
the turbine whistle reflectively. from the low arch expansion tank on either side the valve descend pillarwise to the turbine chest and thence the obedient gas whirl through the spiral of blade with a force that would whip the teeth out of a power saw. behind be it own pressure hold in leash or spur on by the lift shunt. before it the vacuum where fleury s ray dance in violet green band and whirl turbillions of flame. the joint u tube of the vacuum chamber be pressure temper colloid. no glass would endure the strain for an instant. and a junior engineer with tint spectacle watch the ray intently. it be the very heart of the machine a mystery to this day. even fleury who beget it and unlike magniac die a multi millionaire could not explain how the restless little imp shudder in the u tube can in the fractional fraction of a second strike the furious blast of gas into a chill grayish green liquid that drain. you can hear it trickle. from the far end of the vacuum through the eduction pipe and the main back to the bilge. here it return to it gaseous one have almost write sagacious state and climb to work afresh. bilge tank upper tank dorsal tank expansion chamber vacuum main return. a a liquid. and bilge tank once more be the ordain cycle. fleury s ray see to that. and the engineer with the tint spectacle see to fleury s ray. if a speck of oil if even the natural grease of the human finger touch the hood terminal fleury s ray will wink and disappear and must be laboriously build up again. this mean half a day s work for all hand and an expense of one hundred and seventy odd pound to the g. p. o. for radium salt and such trifle. 
now look at our thrust collar. you win t find much german compo there. full jewel you see say captain hodgson a the engineer shunt open the top of a cap. our shaft bearing be c. m. c. commercial mineral company. stone grind with a much care a the lens of a telescope. they cost £ apiece. so far we have not arrive at their term of life. these bearing come from no. which take them over from the old dominion of light which have them out of the wreck of the perseus aëroplane in the year when men still fly linen kite over thorium engine. 
they be a shin reproof to all low grade german ruby enamel so call boort facing and the dangerous and unsatisfactory alumina compound which please dividend hunt owner and turn skipper crazy. 
the rudder gear and the gas lift shunt seat side by side under the engine room dial be the only machine in visible motion. the former sigh from time to time a the oil plunger rise and fall half an inch. the latter case and guard like the u tube aft exhibit another fleury ray but invert and more green than violet. it function be to shunt the lift out of the gas and this it will do without watch. that be all. a tiny pump rod wheeze and whine to itself beside a sputter green lamp. a hundred and fifty foot aft down the flat top tunnel of the tank a violet light restless and irresolute. between the two three white paint turbine trunk like eel basket lay on their side accentuate the empty perspective. you can hear the trickle of the liquefy gas flow from the vacuum into the bilge tank and the soft gluck glock of gas lock close a captain purnall bring down by the head. the hum of the turbine and the boom of the air on our skin be no more than a cotton wool wrap to the universal stillness. and we be run an eighteen second mile. 
i peer from the fore end of the engine room over the hatch coaming into the coach. the mail clerk be sort the winnipeg calgary and medicine hat bag. but there be a pack of card ready on the table. 
suddenly a bell thrill. the engineer run to the turbine valve and stand by. but the spectacled slave of the ray in the u tube never lift his head. he must watch where he be. we be hard brake and go astern. there be language from the control platform. 
tim s spark badly about something say the unruffled captain hodgson. let s look. 
captain purnall be not the suave man we leave half an hour since but the embody authority of the g. p. o. ahead of u float an ancient aluminum patch twin screw tramp of the dingy with no more right to the foot lane than ha a horse cart to a modern town. she carry an obsolete barbette con tower a six foot affair with rail platform forward and our warn beam play on the top of it a a policeman s lantern flash on the area sneak. like a sneak thief too emerge a shock head navigator in his shirt sleeve. captain purnall wrench open the colloid to talk with him man to man. there be time when science doe not satisfy. 
what under the star be you do here you sky scrap chimney sweep. he shout a we two drift side by side. do you know this be a mail lane. you call yourself a sailor sir. you ain t fit to peddle toy balloon to an esquimaux. your name and number. report and get down and be. 
i ve be blow up once the shock head man cry hoarsely a a dog bark. i don t care two flip of a contact for anything you can do postey. 
don t you sir. but i ll make you care. i ll have you tow stern first to disko and break up. you can t recover insurance if you re break for obstruction. do you understand that. 
then the strange bellow. look at my propeller. there s be a wulli wa down under that ha knock u into umbrella frame. we ve be blow up about forty thousand foot. we re all one conjuror s watch inside. my mate s arm s break. my engineer s head s cut open. my ray go out when the engine smash. and. and. for pity s sake give me my height captain. we doubt we re drop. 
six thousand eight hundred. can you hold it. captain purnall overlook all insult and lean half out of the colloid star and snuff. the strange leak pungently. 
we ought to blow into st. john s with luck. we re try to plug the fore tank now but she s simply whistle it away her captain wail. 
she s sink like a log say captain purnall in an undertone. call up the bank mark boat george. our dip dial show that we keep abreast the tramp have drop five hundred foot the last few minute. 
captain purnall press a switch and our signal beam begin to swing through the night twizzling spoke of light across infinity. 
that ll fetch something he say while captain hodgson watch the general communicator. he ha call up the north bank mark boat a few hundred mile west and be report the case. 
i ll stand by you captain purnall roar to the lone figure on the con tower. 
be it a bad a that. come the answer. she isn t insure she s mine. 
might have guess a much mutter hodgson. owner s risk be the bad risk of all. 
can t i fetch st. john s not even with this breeze. the voice quaver. 
stand by to abandon ship. haven t you any lift in you fore or aft. 
nothing but the midship tank and they re none too tight. you see my ray give out and he cough in the reek of the escape gas. 
you poor devil. this doe not reach our friend. what doe the mark boat say george. 
want to know if there s any danger to traffic. say she s in a bite of weather herself and can t quit station. i ve turn in a general call so even if they don t see our beam some one s bind to help or else we must. shall i clear our sling. hold on. here we be. a planet liner too. she ll be up in a tick. 
tell her to have her sling ready cry his brother captain. there win t be much time to spare. tie up your mate he roar to the tramp. 
my mate s all right. it s my engineer. he s go crazy. 
shunt the lift out of him with a spanner. hurry. 
but i can make st. john s if you ll stand by. 
you ll make the deep wet atlantic in twenty minute. you re le than fifty eight hundred now. get your paper. 
a planet liner east bind heave up in a superb spiral and take the air of u hum. her underbody colloid be open and her transporter sling hang down like tentacle. we shut off our beam a she adjust herself steer to a hair over the tramp s con tower. the mate come up his arm strap to his side and stumble into the cradle. a man with a ghastly scarlet head follow shout that he must go back and build up his ray. the mate assure him that he will find a nice new ray all ready in the liner s engine room. the bandage head go up wag excitedly. a youth and a woman follow. the liner cheer hollowly above u and we see the passenger face at the saloon colloid. 
that s a good girl. what s the fool wait for now. say captain purnall. 
the skipper come up still appeal to u to stand by and see him fetch st. john s. he dive below and return at which we little human being in the void cheer loud than ever with the ship s kitten. up fly the liner s hiss sling. her underbody crash home and she hurtle away again. the dial show le than foot. 
the mark boat signal we must attend to the derelict now whistle her death song a she fall beneath u in long sick zigzag. 
keep our beam on her and send out a general warn say captain purnall follow her down. 
there be no need. not a liner in air but know the mean of that vertical beam and give u and our quarry a wide berth. 
but she ll drown in the water win t she. i ask. 
not always be his answer. i ve know a derelict up end and sift her engine out of herself and flicker round the low lane for three week on her forward tank only. we ll run no risk. pith her george and look sharp. there s weather ahead. 
captain hodgson open the underbody colloid swing the heavy pith iron out of it rack which in liner be generally case a a settee and at two hundred foot release the catch. we hear the whir of the crescent shape arm open a they descend. the derelict s forehead be punch in star across and rent diagonally. she fall stern first our beam upon her. slide like a lose soul down that pitiless ladder of light and the atlantic take her. 
[illustration. slide like a lose soul down that pitiless ladder of light and the atlantic take her ]. 
a filthy business say hodgson. i wonder what it must have be like in the old day. 
the think have cross my mind too. what if that waver carcass have be fill with international speak men of all the internationality each one of them teach. that be the horror of it. that after death he would very possibly go forever to unspeakable torment. 
and not half a century since we. one know now that we be only our father re enlarge upon the earth. we_ i say rip and ram and pith to admiration. 
here tim from the control platform shout that we be to get into our inflator and to bring him his at once. 
we hurry into the heavy rubber suit and the engineer be already dress and inflate at the air pump tap. g. p. o. inflator be thrice a thick a a race man s flicker and chafe abominably under the armpit. george take the wheel until tim ha blow himself up to the extreme of rotundity. if you kick him off the c. p. to the deck he would bounce back. but it be that will do the kick. 
the mark boat s mad stark ravin crazy he snort return to command. she say there s a bad blow out ahead and want me to pull over to greenland. i ll see her pith first. we waste an hour and a quarter over that dead duck down under and now i m expect to go rubbin my back all round the pole. what doe she think a postal packet s make of. gum silk. tell her we re come on straight george. 
george buckle him into the frame and switch on the direct control. now under tim s leave toe lie the port engine accelerator. under his leave heel the reverse and so with the other foot. the lift shunt stop stand out on the rim of the steer wheel where the finger of his leave hand can play on them. at his right hand be the midships engine lever ready to be throw into gear at a moment s notice. he lean forward in his belt eye glue to the colloid and one ear cock toward the general communicator. henceforth he be the strength and direction of through whatever may befall. 
the bank mark boat be reel out page of a. b. c. direction to the traffic at large. we be to secure all loose object. hood up our fleury ray. and on no account to attempt to clear snow from our con tower till the weather abate. under power craft we be tell can ascend to the limit of their lift mail packet to look out for them accordingly. the low lane westward be pit very badly with frequent blow out vortex lateral etc. 
still the clear dark hold up unblemished. the only warn be the electric skin tension. i feel a though i be a lace maker s pillow. and an irritability which the gibber of the general communicator increase almost to hysteria. 
we have make eight thousand foot since we pith the tramp and our turbine be give u an honest two hundred and ten knot. 
very far to the west an elongate blur of red low down show u the north bank mark boat. there be speck of fire round her rise and fall bewilder planet about an unstable sun helpless ship hang on to her light for company s sake. no wonder she could not quit station. 
she warn u to look out for the backwash of the bad vortex in which. her beam show it. she be even now reel. 
the pit of gloom about u begin to fill with very faintly luminous film wreathe and uneasy shape. one form itself into a globe of pale flame that wait shiver with eagerness till we sweep by. it leap monstrously across the blackness alight on the precise tip of our nose pirouette there an instant and swing off. our roar bow sink a though that light be lead sink and recover to lurch and stumble again beneath the next blow out. tim s finger on the lift shunt strike chord of number. and so on. for he be run by his tank only lift or lower her against the uneasy air. all three engine be at work for the sooner we have skate over this thin ice the good. high we dare not go. the whole upper vault be charge with pale krypton vapour which our skin friction may excite to unholy manifestation. between the upper and the low level and hint the mark boat we may perhaps bolt through if. our bow clothe itself in blue flame and fall like a sword. no human skill can keep pace with the change tension. a vortex ha u by the beak and we dive down a two thousand foot slant at an angle. the dip dial and my bounce body record it. of thirty five. our turbine scream shrilly. the propeller cannot bite on the thin air. tim shunt the lift out of five tank at once and by sheer weight drive her bulletwise through the maelstrom till she cushion with a jar on an up gust three thousand foot below. 
_now we ve do it say george in my ear. our skin friction that last slide ha play old harry with the tension. look out for lateral tim she ll want some hold. 
i ve get her be the answer. come up_ old woman. 
she come up nobly but the lateral buffet her leave and right like the pinion of angry angel. she be jolt off her course in four way at once and cuff into place again only to be swing aside and drop into a new chaos. we be never without a corposant grin on our bow or roll head over heel from nose to midships and to the crackle of electricity around and within u be add once or twice the rattle of hail hail that will never fall on any sea. slow we must or we may break our back pitch pole. 
air s a perfectly elastic fluid roar george above the tumult. about a elastic a a head sea off the fastnet aint it. 
[illustration. the storm]. 
he be le than just to the good element. if one intrude on the heaven when they be balance their volt account. if one disturb the high god market rate by hurl steel hull at ninety knot across tremblingly adjust electric tension one must not complain of any rudeness in the reception. tim meet it with an unmoved countenance one corner of his under lip catch up on a tooth his eye fleet into the blackness twenty mile ahead and the fierce spark fly from his knuckle at every turn of the hand. now and again he shake his head to clear the sweat trickle from his eyebrow and it be then that george watch his chance would slide down the life rail and swab his face quickly with a big red handkerchief. i never imagine that a human be could so continuously labour and so collectedly think a do tim through that hell s half hour when the flurry be at it bad. we be drag hither and yon by warm or freeze suction belch up on the top of wulli be spin down by vortex and club aside by lateral under a dizzy rush of star in the company of a drunken moon. i hear the rush click of the midship engine lever slide in and out the low growl of the lift shunt and loud than the yell wind without the scream of the bow rudder gouge into any lull that promise hold for an instant. at last we begin to claw up on a cant bow rudder and port propeller together. only the nice balance of tank save u from spin like the rifle bullet of the old day. 
we ve get to hitch to windward of that mark boat somehow george cry. 
there s no windward i protest feebly where i swing shackle to a stanchion. how can there be. 
he laugh a we pitch into a thousand foot blow out that red man laugh beneath his inflate hood. 
look. he say. we must clear those refugee with a high lift. 
the mark boat be below and a little to the sou west of u fluctuate in the centre of her distraught galaxy. the air be thick with move light at every level. i take it most of them be try to lie head to wind but not be hydra they fail. an under tank moghrabi boat have rise to the limit of her lift and find no improvement have drop a couple of thousand. there she meet a superb wulli wa and be blow up spin like a dead leaf. instead of shut off she go astern and naturally rebound a from a wall almost into the mark boat whose language. our g. c. take it in. be humanly simple. 
if they d only ride it out quietly it ud be good say george in a calm a we climb like a bat above them all. but some skipper will navigate without enough lift. what doe that tad boat think she be do tim. 
playin kiss in the ring be tim s unmoved reply. a trans asiatic direct liner have find a smooth and butt into it full power. but there be a vortex at the tail of that smooth so the t. a. d. be flip out like a pea from off a fingernail brake madly a she flee down and all but over end. 
now i hope she s satisfy say tim. i m glad i m not a mark boat. do i want help. the c. g. dial have catch his ear. george you may tell that gentleman with my love love remember george that i do not want help. who be the officious sardine tin. 
a rimouski drogher on the lookout for a tow. 
very kind of the rimouski drogher. this postal packet isn t be tow at present. 
those droghers will go anywhere on a chance of salvage george explain. we call em kittiwake. 
a long beak bright steel ninety footer float at ease for one instant within hail of u her sling coil ready for rescue and a single hand in her open tower. he be smoke. surrender to the insurrection of the air through which we tear our way he lay in absolute peace. i saw the smoke of his pipe ascend untroubled ere his boat drop it seem like a stone in a well. 
we have just clear the mark boat and her disorderly neighbour when the storm end a suddenly a it have begin. a shoot star to northward fill the sky with the green blink of a meteorite dissipate itself in our atmosphere. 
say george. that may iron out all the tension. even a he speak the conflict wind come to rest. the level fill. the lateral die out in long easy swell. the airway be smooth before u. in le than three minute the covey round the mark boat have ship their power light and whir away upon their business. 
what s happen. i gasp. the nerve storm within and the volt tingle without have pass. my inflator weigh like lead. 
god he know. say captain george soberly. that old shoot star s skin friction ha discharge the different level. i ve see it happen before. phew. what a relief. 
we drop from ten to six thousand and get rid of our clammy suit. tim shut off and step out of the frame. the mark boat be come up behind u. he open the colloid in that heavenly stillness and mop his face. 
hello williams. he cry. a degree or two out o station ain t you. 
may be be the answer from the mark boat. i ve have some company this even. 
so i notice. wasn t that quite a little draught. 
i warn you. why didn t you pull out round by disko. the east bind packet have. 
me. not till i m run a polar consumptive sanatorium boat. i be squint through a colloid before you be out of your cradle my son. 
i d be the last man to deny it the captain of the mark boat reply softly. the way you handle her just now i m a pretty fair judge of traffic in a volt flurry it be a thousand revolution beyond anything even i_ ve ever see. 
tim s back supple visibly to this oil. captain george on the c. p. wink and point to the portrait of a singularly attractive maiden pin up on tim s telescope bracket above the steer wheel. 
i see. wholly and entirely do i see. 
there be some talk overhead of come round to tea on friday a brief report of the derelict s fate and tim volunteer a he descend. for an a. b. c. man young williams be le of a high tension fool than some. be you think of take her on george. then i ll just have a look round that port thrust seem to me it s a trifle warm and we ll jog along. 
the mark boat hum off joyously and hang herself up in her appoint eyrie. here she will stay a shutterless observatory. a life boat station. a salvage tug. a court of ultimate appeal cum meteorological bureau for three hundred mile in all direction till wednesday next when her relief slide across the star to take her buffet place. her black hull double con tower and ever ready sling represent all that remain to the planet of that odd old word authority. she be responsible only to the aërial board of control the a. b. c. of which tim speak so flippantly. but that semi elect semi nominate body of a few score person of both sex control this planet. transportation be civilization our motto run. theoretically we do what we please so long a we do not interfere with the traffic and all it imply. practically the a. b. c. confirm or annul all international arrangement and to judge from it last report find our tolerant humorous lazy little planet only too ready to shift the whole burden of private administration on it shoulder. 
i discus this with tim sip maté on the c. p. while george fan her along over the white blur of the bank in beautiful upward curve of fifty mile each. the dip dial translate them on the tape in flow freehand. 
tim gather up a skein of it and survey the last few foot which record s path through the volt flurry. 
i haven t have a fever chart like this to show up in five year he say ruefully. 
a postal packet s dip dial record every yard of every run. the tape then go to the a. b. c. which collate and make composite photograph of them for the instruction of captain. tim study his irrevocable past shake his head. 
hello. here s a fifteen hundred foot drop at eighty five degree. we must have be stand on our head then george. 
you don t say so george answer. i fancy i notice it at the time. 
george may not have captain purnall s catlike swiftness but he be all an artist to the tip of the broad finger that play on the shunt stop. the delicious flight curve come away on the tape with never a waver. the mark boat s vertical spindle of light lie down to eastward set in the face of the follow star. westward where no planet should rise the triple vertical of trinity bay. we keep still to the southern route. make a low lift haze. we seem the only thing at rest under all the heaven. float at ease till the earth s revolution shall turn up our land tower. 
and minute by minute our silent clock give u a sixteen second mile. 
some fine night say tim. we ll be even with that clock s master. 
he s come now say george over his shoulder. i m chase the night west. 
the star ahead dim no more than if a film of mist have be draw under unobserved but the deep air boom on our skin change to a joyful shout. 
the dawn gust say tim. it ll go on to meet the sun. look. look. there s the dark be cram back over our bow. come to the after colloid. i ll show you something. 
the engine room be hot and stuffy. the clerk in the coach be asleep and the slave of the ray be near to follow them. tim slide open the aft colloid and reveal the curve of the world the ocean s deep purple edge with fume and intolerable gold. then the sun rise and through the colloid strike out our lamp. tim scowl in his face. 
squirrel in a cage he mutter. that s all we be. squirrel in a cage. he s go twice a fast a u. just you wait a few year my shin friend and we ll take step that will amaze you. we ll joshua you. 
yes that be our dream. to turn all earth into the vale of ajalon at our pleasure. so far we can drag out the dawn to twice it normal length in these latitude. but some day even on the equator we shall hold the sun level in his full stride. 
now we look down on a sea throng with heavy traffic. a big submersible break water suddenly. another and another follow with a swash and a suck and a savage bubble of relieve pressure. the deep sea freighter be rise to lung up after the long night and the leisurely ocean be all pattern with peacock s eye of foam. 
we ll lung up too say tim and when we return to the c. p. george shut off the colloid be open and the fresh air sweep her out. there be no hurry. the old contract. they will be revise at the end of the year. allow twelve hour for a run which any packet can put behind her in ten. so we breakfast in the arm of an easterly slant which push u along at a languid twenty. 
to enjoy life and tobacco begin both on a sunny morning half a mile or so above the dapple atlantic cloud belt and after a volt flurry which ha clear and temper your nerve. while we discuss the thicken traffic with the superiority that come of have a high level reserve to ourselves we hear. and i for the first time. the morning hymn on a hospital boat. 
she be cloak by a skein of ravel fluff beneath u and we catch the chant before she rise into the sunlight. _oh ye wind of god_ sing the unseen voice. _bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him forever. 
we slide off our cap and join in. when our shadow fell across her great open platform they look up and stretch out their hand neighbourly while they sing. we could see the doctor and the nurse and the white button like face of the cot patient. she pass slowly beneath u head northward her hull wet with the dew of the night all ablaze in the sunshine. so take she the shadow of a cloud and vanish her song continue. oh ye holy and humble men of heart bless ye the lord. praise him and magnify him forever. 
she s a public lunger or she wouldn t have be sing the benedicite. and she s a greenlander or she wouldn t have snow blind over her colloid say george at last. she ll be bind for frederikshavn or one of the glacier sanatorium for a month. if she be an accident ward she d be hang up at the eight thousand foot level. yes consumptive. 
funny how the new thing be the old thing. i ve read in book tim answer that savage use to haul their sick and wound up to the top of hill because microbe be few there. we hoist em into sterilize air for a while. same idea. how much do the doctor say we ve add to the average life of a man. 
thirty year say george with a twinkle in his eye. be we go to spend em all up here tim. 
flap along then. flap along. who s hinder. the senior captain laugh a we go in. 
we hold a good lift to clear the coastwise and continental ship. and we have need of it. though our route be in no sense a populate one there be a steady trickle of traffic this way along. we meet hudson bay furrier out of the great preserve hurry to make their departure from bonavista with sable and black fox for the insatiable market. we over cross keewatin liner small and cramp. but their captain who see no land between trepassy and blanco know what gold they bring back from west africa. trans asiatic direct we meet soberly ring the world round the fiftieth meridian at an honest seventy knot. and white paint ackroyd & hunt fruiters out of the south flee beneath u their ventilate hull whistle like chinese kite. their market be in the north among the northern sanatoria where you can smell their grapefruit and banana across the cold snow. argentine beef boat we sight too of enormous capacity and unlovely outline. they too fee the northern health station in ice bind port where submersible dare not rise. 
yellow belly ore flat and ungava petrol tank punt down leisurely out of the north like string of unfrightened wild duck. it doe not pay to fly mineral and oil a mile farther than be necessary. but the risk of transhipping to submersible in the ice pack off nain or hebron be so great that these heavy freighter fly down to halifax direct and scent the air a they go. they be the big tramp aloft except the athabasca grain tub. but these last now that the wheat be move be busy over the world s shoulder timber lift in siberia. 
we hold to the st. lawrence. it be astonish how the old water way still pull u child of the air. and follow his broad line of black between it drift ice block all down the park that the wisdom of our father but every one know the quebec run. 
we drop to the height receive tower twenty minute ahead of time and there hang at ease till the yokohama intermediate packet could pull out and give u our proper slip. it be curious to watch the action of the hold down clip all along the frosty river front a the boat clear or come to rest. a big hamburger be leave pont levi and her crew unshipping the platform railing begin to sing elsinore the old of our chantey. you know it of course. 
mother rugen s tea house on the baltic forty couple waltz on the floor. and you can watch my ray for i must go away and dance with ella sweyn at elsinore. 
then while they sweat home the cover plate. 
nor nor nor nor west from sourabaya to the baltic ninety knot an hour to the skaw. mother rugen s tea house on the baltic and a dance with ella sweyn at elsinore. 
the clip part with a gesture of indignant dismissal a though quebec glitter under her snow be cast out these light and unworthy lover. our signal come from the height. tim turn and float up but surely then it be with passionate appeal that the great tower arm fling open or do i think so because on the upper stag a little hood figure also open her arm wide towards her father. 
* * * * *. 
in ten second the coach with it clerk clash down to the receive caisson. the hostler displace the engineer at the idle turbine and tim proud of this than all introduce me to the maiden of the photograph on the shelf. and by the way say he to her step forth in sunshine under the hat of civil life i saw young williams in the mark boat. i ve ask him to tea on friday. 
[illustration. i ve ask him to tea on friday ]. 
aerial board of control bulletin. 
aerial board of control. 
light. 
no change in english inland light for week end dec. 
planetary coastal light. week end dec. verde incline guide light change from st proximo to triple flash green white green in place of occult red a heretofore. the warn light for harmattan wind will be continuous vertical glare. white. on all oasis of trans saharan n. e. by e. main route. 
invercargil. n. z. from st prox. extreme southerly light. double red. will exhibit white beam incline degree on approach of southerly buster. traffic fly high off this coast between april and october. 
table bay devil s peak glare remove to simonsberg. traffic make table mountain coastwise keep all light from three anchor bay at least five ship hundred foot under and do not round to till beyond e. shoulder devil s peak. 
sandheads light green triple vertical mark new private land stage for bay and burma traffic only. 
snaefell jokul white occult light withdraw for winter. 
patagonia no summer light south c. pilar. this include staten island and port stanley. 
c. navarin quadruple fog flash. white. one minute interval. new. 
east cape fog flash single white with single bomb sec. interval. new. 
malayan archipelago light unreliable owe eruption. lay from somerset to singapore direct keep high level. 
for the board. catterthun } st. just } light. van hedder }. 
casualty. 
week end dec. th. 
sable island land tower green freighter number indistinguishable up end and fore tank pierce after collision pass ft. level p. m. dec. th. watch to water and pith by mark boat. 
n. f. bank postal packet report halma freighter. fowey st. john s. abandon leak after weather ° n. ° w. crew rescue by planet liner asteroid. watch to water and pith by postal packet dec. th. 
kerguelen mark boat report last call from cymena freighter. gay tong huk & co. take water and sink in snow storm south mcdonald island. no wreckage recover. address etc. of crew at all a. b. c. office. 
fezzan t. a. d. freighter ulema take grind during harmattan on akakus range. under plate strain. crew at ghat where repair dec. th. 
biscay mark boat report carducci. valandingham line. slightly spike in western gorge point de benasque. passenger transfer andorra. same line. barcelona mark boat salve cargo dec. th. 
ascension mark boat wreck of unknown race plane parden rudder wire stiffen xylonite van and harliss engine seat sight and salve ° s. ° w. dec. th. photo at all a. b. c. office. 
miss. 
no answer to general call have be receive during the last week from follow overdues they be post a miss. 
atlantis_ w. canton valparaiso audhumla_ w. stockholm odessa berenice_ w. riga vladivostock draco_ e. coventry puntas arena tontine_ e. c. wrath ungava wu sung_ e. hankow lobito bay. 
general call. all mark boat. out for. 
jane eyre_ w. port rupert city of mexico santander_ w. gobi desert manila v. edmundsun_ e. kandahar fiume. 
break for obstruction and quit level. 
valkyrie. race plane. a. j. hartley owner new york. twice warn. 
geisha. race plane. s. van cott owner philadelphia. twice warn. 
marvel of peru. race plane. j. x. peixoto owner rio de janeiro. twice warn. 
for the board. 
lazareff } mckeough } traffic. goldblatt }. 
note. 
note. 
high level sleet. 
the northern weather so far show no sign of improvement. from all quarter come complaint of the unusual prevalence of sleet at the high level. race plane and dig alike have suffer severely the former from unequal deposit of half freeze slush on their van. and only those who have hold up a badly balance plane in a cross wind know what that mean. and the latter from load bow and snow case body. a a consequence the northern and northwestern upper level have be practically abandon and the high flier have return to the ignoble security of the three five and six hundred foot level. but there remain a few undaunted sun hunter who in spite of freeze stay and ice jam connect rod still haunt the blue empyrean. 
bat boat race. 
the scandal of the past few year have at last move the yacht world to concert action in regard to bat boat race. 
we have be treat to the spectacle of what be practically keel race plane drive a clear five foot or more above the water and only ease down to touch their so call native element a they near the line. judge and starter have be conveniently blind to this absurdity but the public demonstration off st. catherine s light at the autumn regatta ha bear ample if tardy fruit. in future the bat be to be a boat and the long unheeded demand of the true sportsman for no daylight under mid keel in smooth water be in a fair way to be concede. the new rule severely restrict plane area and lift alike. the gas compartment be permit both fore and aft a in the old type but the water ballast central tank be render obligatory. these thing work if not for perfection at least for the evolution of a sane and wholesome waterborne cruiser. the type of rudder be unaffected by the new rule so we may expect to see the long davidson make. the patent on which ha just expire. come largely into use henceforward though the strain on the sternpost in turn at speed over forty mile an hour be admittedly very severe. but bat boat race ha a great future before it. 
correspondence. 
correspondence. 
skylark on the equator. 
to the editor only last week while cross the equator. w. i become aware of a furious and irregular cannonade some fifteen or twenty knot s. e. descend to the ft. level i find a party of transylvanian tourist engage in explode score of the large pattern atmospheric bomb. a. b. c. standard. and in the interval of their please labour fire bow and stern smoke ring swivel. this orgy i can give it no other name go on for at least two hour and naturally produce violent electric derangement. my compass of course be throw out my bow be strike twice and i receive two brisk shock from the low platform rail. on remonstrate i be tell that these professor be engage in scientific experiment. the extent of their scientific knowledge may be judge by the fact that they expect to produce. i give their own word. a little blue sky if they go on long enough. this in the heart of the doldrums at foot. i have no objection to any amount of blue sky in it proper place. it can be find at the level for practically twelve month out of the year. but i submit with all deference to the educational need of transylvania that sky lark in the centre of a main travel road where at the best of time electricity literally drip off one s stanchion and screw blade be unnecessary. when my friend have finish the road be sear and blow and pit with unequal pressure layer spiral vortex and readjustment for at least an hour. i pitch badly twice in an upward rush solely due to these diabolical throw down that come near to wreck my propeller. equatorial work at low level be try enough in all conscience without the add terror of scientific hooliganism in the doldrums. 
rhyl. j. vincent mathews. 
[we entirely sympathize with professor mathews s view but unluckily till the board see fit to further regulate the southern area in which scientific experiment may be conduct we shall always be expose to the risk which our correspondent describe. unfortunately a chimera bombinate in a vacuum be nowadays only too capable of produce secondary cause. editor. ]. 
answer to correspondent. 
vigilans the law of auroral derangement be still imperfectly understand. any overheat motor may of course seize without warn. but so many complaint have reach u of accident similar to yours while shoot the aurora that we be incline to believe with lavalle that the upper stratum of the aurora borealis be practically one big electric leak and that the paralysis of your engine be due to complete magnetization of all metallic part. low fly plane often glue up when near the magnetic pole and there be no reason in science why the same disability should not be experience at high level when the aurora be deliver strongly. 
indignant on your own show you be not under control. that you could not hoist the necessary n. u. c. light on approach a traffic lane because your electric have short circuit be a misfortune which might befall any one. the a. b. c. be responsible for the planet s traffic cannot however make allowance for this kind of misfortune. a reference to the code will show that you be fin on the low scale. 
planiston. the five thousand kilometre. overland. be win last year by l. v. rautsch r. m. rautsch his brother in the same week pull off the ten thousand. oversea. r. m. s average work out at a fraction over kilometre per hour thus constitute a record. theoretically there be no limit to the lift of a dirigible. for commercial and practical purpose ton be accept a the most manageable. 
paterfamilias none whatever. he be liable for direct damage both to your chimney and any collateral damage cause by fall of brick into garden etc. etc. bodily inconvenience and mental anguish may be include but the average jury be not a a rule men of sentiment. if you can prove that his grapnel remove any portion of your roof you have good rest your case on decoverture of domicile. see parkins v. duboulay. we entirely sympathize with your position but the night of the th be stormy and confuse and you may have to anchor on a strange s chimney yourself some night. verbum sap. 
aldebaran war a a pay concern cease in. the convention of london expressly reserve to every nation the right of wag war so long a it doe not interfere with the world s traffic. the a. b. c. be constitute in. 
l. m. d. keep her dead head on at half power take advantage of the lull to speed up and creep into it. she will strain much le this way than in quarter across a gale. nothing be to be gain by reverse into a follow gale and there be always risk of a turn over. the formulæ for stun sle brake be uniformly unreliable and will continue to be so a long a air be compressible. 
pegamoid personally we prefer glass or flux compound to any other material for winter work nose cap a be absolutely non hygroscopic. we cannot recommend any particular make. 
pulmonar for the symptom you describe try the gobi desert sanitarium. the low level of the saharan sanitarium be against them except at the outset of the disease. we do not recommend board house or hotel in this column. 
beginner on still day the air above a large inhabit city be slightly warm i. e. thin than the atmosphere of the surround country a plane drop a little on enter the rarefy area precisely a a ship sink a little in fresh water. hence the phenomenon of jolt and your inexplicable collision with factory chimney. in air a on earth it be safe to fly high. 
emergency there be only one rule of the road in air earth and water. do you want the firmament to yourself. 
picciola both pole have be overdo in art and literature. leave them to science for the next twenty year. you do not send a stamp with your verse. 
north nigeria the mark boat be within her right in warn you up on the reserve. the shadow of a low fly dirigible scare the game. you can buy all the photo you need at sokoto. 
new era it be not etiquette to overcross an a. b. c. official s boat without ask permission. he be one of the body responsible for the planet s traffic and for that reason must not be interfere with. you presumably be out on your own business or pleasure and should leave him alone. for humanity s sake don t try to be democratic. 
review. 
review. 
the life of xavier lavalle. 
review by réné talland. école aëronautique paris. 
ten year ago lavalle that imperturbable dreamer of the heaven a lazareff hail him gather together the fruit of a lifetime s labour and give it with well justify contempt to a world bind hand and foot to barald s theory of vertex and compensate electric node. they shall see he write in that immortal postscript to the heart of the cyclone the law whose existence they deride write in fire beneath them. 
but even here he continue there be no finality. good a thousand time my conclusion should be discredit than that my dead name should lie across the threshold of the temple of science a bar to further inquiry. 
so die lavalle a prince of the power of the air and even at his funeral céllier jest at him who have go to discover the secret of the aurora borealis. 
if i choose thus to be banal it be only to remind you that céllier s theory be to day a explode a the ludicrous deduction of the spanish school. in the place of their fugitive and war dream we have definitely lavalle s law of the cyclone which he surprise in darkness and cold at the foot of the overarch throne of the aurora borealis. it be there that i intent on my own investigation have pass and re pass a hundred time the wear leonine face white a the snow beneath him furrow with wrinkle like the seam and gash upon the north cape. the nervous hand integrally a part of the mechanism of his flighter. and above all the wonderful lambent eye turn to the zenith. 
master i would cry a i move respectfully beneath him what be it you seek to day. and always the answer clear and without doubt from above. the old secret my son. 
the immense egotism of youth force me on my own path but. cry of the human always. have i know if i have know i would many time have barter my poor laurel for the privilege such a tinsley and herrera posse of have aid him in his monumental research. 
it be to the filial piety of victor lavalle that we owe the two volume consecrate to the grind life of his father so full of the holy intimacy of the domestic hearth. once return from the abysm of the utter north to that little house upon the outskirt of meudon it be not the philosopher the dare observer the man of iron energy that impose himself on his family but a fat and even plaintive jester a farceur incarnate and kindly the co equal of his child and it must be write not seldom the comic despair of madame lavalle who a she write five year after the marriage to her venerable mother find in this unequalled intellect whose name i bear the abandon of a large and very untidy boy. here be her letter. 
xavier return from i do not know where at midnight absorb in calculation on the eternal question of his aurora la belle aurore_ whom i begin to hate. instead of anchor i have set out the guide light above our roof so he have but to descend and fasten the plane he wander profoundly distract above the town with his anchor down. figure to yourself dear mother it be the roof of the mayor s house that the grapnel first engage. that i do not regret for the mayor s wife and i be not sympathetic. but when xavier uproot my pet araucaria and bear it across the garden into the conservatory i protest at the top of my voice. little victor in his night clothe run to the window enormously amuse at the parabolic flight without reason for it be too dark to see the grapnel of my prize tree. the mayor of meudon thunder at our door in the name of the law demand i suppose my husband s head. here be the conversation through the megaphone xavier be two hundred foot above u. 
mon. lavalle descend and make reparation for outrage of domicile. descend mon. lavalle. 
no one answer. 
xavier lavalle in the name of the law descend and submit to process for outrage of domicile. 
xavier rouse from his calculation only comprehend the last word. outrage of domicile. my dear mayor who be the man that ha corrupt thy julie. 
the mayor furious xavier lavalle. 
xavier interrupt. i have not that felicity. i be only a dealer in cyclone. 
my faith he raise one then. all meudon attend in the street and my xavier after a long time comprehend what he have do excuse himself in a thousand apology. at last the reconciliation be effect in our house over a supper at two in the morning julie in a wonderful costume of compromise and i have her and the mayor pacify in bed in the blue room. 
and on the next day while the mayor rebuild his roof her xavier depart anew for the aurora borealis there to commence his life s work. m. victor lavalle tell u of that historic collision. en plane. on the flank of hecla between herrera then a pillar of the spanish school and the man destine to confute his theory and lead him intellectually captive. even through the year the immense laugh of lavalle a he sustain the spaniard s wreck plane and cry. courage. i shall not fall till i have find truth and i hold you fast. ring like the call of trumpet. this be that lavalle whom the world immerse in speculation of immediate gain do not know nor suspect the lavalle whom they adjudge to the last a pedant and a theorist. 
the human a apart from the scientific side. develop in his own volume. of his epoch make discovery be mark with a simplicity clarity and good sense beyond praise. i would specially refer such a doubt the sustain influence of ancestral faith upon character and will to the eleventh and nineteenth chapter in which be contain the open and consummation of the tellurionical record extend over nine year. of their tremendous significance be sure that the modest house at meudon know a little a that the record would one day be the world s standard in all official meteorology. it be enough for them that their xavier this son this father this husband ascend periodically to commune with power it might be angelic beyond their comprehension and that they unite daily in prayer for his safety. 
pray for me he say upon the eve of each of his excursion and return with an equal simplicity he render thank after supper in the little room where he keep his barometer. 
to the last lavalle be a catholic of the old school accept he who have look into the very heart of the lightning the dogma of papal infallibility of absolution of confession of relic great and small. marvellous enviable contradiction. 
the completion of the tellurionical record close what lavalle himself be please to call the theoretical side of his labour labour from which the young and least impressionable planeur might well have shrink. he have trace through cold and heat across the deep of the ocean with instrument of his own invention over the inhospitable heart of the polar ice and the sterile visage of the desert league by league patiently unweariedly remorselessly from their ever shift cradle under the magnetic pole to their exalt death bed in the utmost ether of the upper atmosphere each one of the isoconical tellurions lavalle s curve a we call them to day. he have disentangle the node of their intersection assign to each it regulate period of flux and reflux. thus equip he summon herrera and tinsley his pupil to the final demonstration a calmly a though he be order his flighter for some midday journey to marseille. 
i have prove my thesis he write. it remain now only that you should witness the proof. we go to manila to morrow. a cyclone will form off the pescadores s. e. in four day and will reach it maximum intensity in twenty seven hour after inception. it be there i will show you the truth. 
a letter heretofore unpublished from herrera to madame lavalle tell u how the master s prophecy be verify. 
to be continue. 
advertise section. 
miscellaneous. 
want. 
require immediately for east africa a thoroughly competent plane and dirigible driver acquaint with petrol radium and helium motor and generator. low level work only but must understand heavy weight dig. 
mossamedes transport assoc. palestine building e. c. 
* * * * *. 
man want dig driver for southern alp with saharan summer trip. high level high speed high wage. 
apply m. sidney hotel san stefano. monte carlo. 
* * * * *. 
family dirigible. a competent steady man want for slow speed low level tangye dirigible. no night work no sea trip. must be member of the church of england and make himself useful in the garden. 
m. r. the rectory gray s barton wilt. 
* * * * *. 
commercial dig central and southern europe. a smart active man for a l. m. t. dig. night work only. headquarter london and cairo. a linguist prefer. 
bagman char cross hotel w. c. urgent. 
* * * * *. 
for sale a bargain single plane narrow gauge van pinke motor. restayed this autumn. hansen air kit. in. chest / collar. can be see by appointment. 
n. this office. 
=the bee line bookshop=. 
belt s way book give town light for all town over pop. a lay down by a. b. c. 
the world. complete vols. thin oxford limp back. s. d. 
belt s coastal itinerary. shore light of the world. s. d. 
the transatlantic and mediterranean traffic line. by authority of the a. b. c. paper s. d. cloth s. d. ready jan. 
arctic aeroplaning. siemens and galt. cloth bd. s. d. 
lavalle s heart of the cyclone with supplementary chart. s. d. 
rimington s pitfall in the air and table of comparative density. s. d. 
angelo s desert in a dirigible. new edition revise. s. d. 
vaughan s plane race in calm and storm. s. d. 
vaughan s hint to the air mateur. s. 
hofman s law of lift and velocity. with diagram s. d. 
de vitre s theory of shift ballast in dirigible. s. d. 
sanger s weather of the world. s. 
sanger s temperature at high altitude. s. 
hawkin s fog and how to avoid it. s. 
van zuylan s secondary effect of thunderstorm. s. d. 
dahlgren s air current and epidemic disease. s. d. 
redmayne s disease and the barometer. s. d. 
walton s health resort of the gobi and shamo. s. d. 
walton s the pole and pulmonary complaint. s. d. 
mutlow s high level bacteriology s. d. 
halliwell s illuminate star map with clockwork attachment give apparent motion of heaven box complete with clamp for binnacle. inch size only £. invaluable for night work. with a. b. c. certificate £. s. d. 
zalinski s standard work. 
pass of the himalaya. s. 
pass of the sierra. s. 
pass of the rockies. s. 
pass of the urals. s. 
the four box limp cloth with chart s. 
gray s air current in mountain gorge. s. d. 
=a. c. belt & son reading=. 
safety wear for aeronaut. 
flicker. flicker. flicker. 
=high level flickers=. 
_he that be down need fear no fall_ fear not. you will fall lightly a down. 
hansen s air kit be down in all respect. tremendous reduction in price previous to winter stock. pure para kit with cellulose seat and shoulder pad weight to balance. unequalled for all drop work. 
our trebly resilient heavy kit be the ne plus ultra of comfort and safety. 
gas buoy waterproof hail proof non conduct flicker with pipe and nozzle fit all type of generator. graduate tap on leave hip. 
=hansen s flicker lead the aerial flight= = oxford street=. 
the new weight flicker with tweed or cheviot surface cannot be distinguish from the ordinary suit till inflate. 
flicker. flicker. flicker. 
appliance for air plane. 
what. 
skid. 
be to our forefather on the grind. 
pitch. 
be to their son in the air. 
the popularity of the large unwieldy slow expensive dirigible over the light swift plane be mainly due to the former s immunity from pitch. 
collison s forward socketed air van render it impossible for any plane to pitch. the c. f. s. be automatic simple a a shutter certain a a power hammer safe a oxygen. fit to any make of plane. 
collison brompton road workshops_ chiswick. 
lundie & mathers sole agts for east n hemisphere. 
* * * * *. 
starter and guide. 
hotel club and private house plane starter slip and guide affix by skilled workman in accordance with local build law. 
rackstraw s forty foot collapsible steel starter with automatic release at end of travel price per foot run clamp and crampon include. the safe on the market. 
weaver & denison middleboro. 
air plane and dirigible good. 
=remember=. 
=planes be swift so be death= =planes be cheap so be life=. 
why doe the plane builder insist on the safety of his machine. 
methinks the gentleman protest too much. 
the standard dig construction company do not build kite. 
they build equip and guarantee dirigible. 
=_standard dig construction co. =. 
millwall and buenos ayres. 
* * * * *. 
remember. 
we shall always be please to see you. 
we build and test and guarantee our dirigible for all purpose. they go up when you please and they do not come down till you please. 
you can please yourself but you might a well choose a dirigible. 
=standard dirigible construction co. =. 
millwall and buenos ayres. 
* * * * *. 
hover. 
powell s wind hover. 
for plane tie to in heavy weather save the motor and strain on the forebody. will not send to leeward. albatross wind hover rigid rib. accord to h. p. and weight. 
we fit and test free to ° east of greenwich. 
l. & w. powell victoria street w. 
* * * * *. 
gay & hutt. 
birmingham and birmingham eng. ala. 
tower land stage slip and lift public and private. 
contractor to the a. b. c. south western european postal construction dept. 
sole patentee and owner of the collison anti quake diagonal tower tie. only gold medal kyoto exhibition of aerial appliance. 
air plane and dirigible. 
c. m. c. 
our synthetical mineral bearing. 
be chemically and crystallogically identical with the mineral whose name they bear. any size any surface. diamond rock crystal agate and ruby bearing cup cap and collar for the high speed. 
for tractor bearing and spindle imperative. 
for rear propeller indispensable. 
for all work part advisable. 
commercial mineral co. minories. 
* * * * *. 
resurgam. 
if you have not clothe yourself in a. 
normandie resurgam. 
you will probably not be interest in our next week s list of air kit. 
resurgam air kit emporium. 
hymans & graham. 
low broadway new york. 
* * * * *. 
remember. 
¶ it be now nearly a century since the plane be to supersede the dirigible for all purpose. 
¶ to day none of the planet s freight be carry en plane. 
¶ le than two per cent. of the planet s passenger be carry en plane. 
we design equip and guarantee dirigible for all purpose. 
standard dig construction company. 
millwall and buenos ayres. 
bat boat. 
[illustration]. 
flint & mantel. 
southampton. 
for sale. 
at the end of season the follow bat boat. 
=griselda= knt. ft. nom. maginnis motor under rake rudder. 
=mabelle= knt. ft. hargreaves motor douglas lock steer gear. 
=ivemona= knt. ft. hargreaves. radium accelerator. miller keel and rudder. 
the above be well know on the south coast a sound wholesome knockabout boat with ample cruise accommodation. griselda carry spare set of hofman race van and can be lift three foot clear in smooth water with ballast tank swing aft. the others do not lift clear of water and be recommend for beginner. 
also by private treaty race b. b. tarpon. win flag. knt. ft. long davidson double under rake rudder new this season and unstrain. nom. maginnis motor radium relay and pond generator. bronze breakwater forward and treble reinforce forefoot and entry. talfourd rockered keel. triple set of hofman van give maximum lift surface of sq. ft. 
tarpon ha be lift and hold seven foot for two mile between touch and touch. 
our autumn list of race and family bat ready on the th january. 
air plane and starter. 
hinks s moderator. 
¶ monorail overhead starter for family and private plane up to twenty five foot over all. 
absolutely safe. 
hinks & co. birmingham. 
* * * * *. 
j. d. ardagh. 
i be not concern with your plane after it leaf my guide but till then i hold myself personally responsible for your life safety and comfort. my hydraulic buff stop cannot release till the motor be work up to bear speed thus secure a safe and graceful flight without pitch. 
remember our motto _upward and outward_ and do not trust yourself to so call rigid guide bar. 
j. d. ardagh belfast and turin. 
accessory and spare. 
christian wright & oldis. 
establish. 
accessory and spare. 
hood binnacle with dip dial automatically record change of level. illuminate face. 
all height from to foot £. 
with aerial board of control certificate £. 
foot and hand foghorn. siren tone to any club note. with air chest belt drive from motor £. 
wireless installation syntonised to a. b. c. requirement in neat mahogany case hundred mile range £. 
grapnel mushroom anchor pith iron winch hawser snap shackle and moor rope for lawn city and public installation. 
detachable under car aluminum or stamp steel. 
keel under car for plane. single action detach gear turn car into boat with one motion of the wrist. invaluable for sea trip. 
head side and rid light. by size. no. to a. b. c. standard. rocket and fog bomb in colour and tone of the principal club. box. 
a selection of twenty £. 
international night signal. box. £. 
spare generator guarantee to lift power mark on cover. price accord to power. 
wind nose for dirigible pegamoid cane stiffen lacquer cane or aluminum and flux for winter work. 
smoke ring cannon for hail storm swivel mount bow or stern. 
propeller blade. metal tungsten back. papier maché. wire stiffen. rib xylonite. nickson s patent. all razor edge. price by pitch and diameter. 
compress steel bow screw for winter work. 
fuse ruby or commercial mineral co. bearing and collar. agate mount thrust block up to inch. 
magniac s bow rudder. lavalle s patent groove. 
weave steel belting for outboard motor. non magnetic. 
radium battery all power to h. p. in pair. 
helium battery all power to h. p. tandem. 
stun sle brake work from upper or low platform. 
direct plunge brake work from low platform only load silk or fibre wind tight. 
catalogue free throughout the planet. 
* * * * *. 
