the kipling reader. 
selection from the book of rudyard kipling. 
new and revise edition. 
macmillan and co limit st. martin s street london. 
copyright. 
first edition. reprint with correction. reprint. twice. twice. 
print in great britain. 
content. 
prose. 
rikki tikki tavi william the conqueror part i william the conqueror part ii wee willie winkie a matter of fact mowgli s brother the lose legion namgay doola a germ destroyer tiger. tiger. tod amendment the story of muhammad din the finance of the god moti guj mutineer. 
poetry. 
the native bear the flower municipal the coastwise light the english flag england s answer the overland mail in spring time. 
rikki tikki tavi. 
at the hole where he go in red eye call to wrinkle skin. hear what little red eye saith. nag come up and dance with death. 
eye to eye and head to head. keep the measure nag. this shall end when one be dead. at thy pleasure nag. turn for turn and twist for twist. run and hide thee nag. hah. the hood death ha miss. woe betide thee nag. 
this be the story of the great war that rikki tikki tavi fight single hand through the bath room of the big bungalow in segowlee cantonment. darzee the tailor bird help him and chuchundra the musk rat who never come out into the middle of the floor but always creep round by the wall give him advice. but rikki tikki do the real fight. 
he be a mongoose rather like a little cat in his fur and his tail but quite like a weasel in his head and habit. his eye and the end of his restless nose be pink. he could scratch himself anywhere he please with any leg front or back that he choose to use. he could fluff up his tail till it look like a bottle brush and his war cry a he scuttle through the long grass be. rikk tikk tikki tikki tchk. 
one day a high summer flood wash him out of the burrow where he live with his father and mother and carry him kick and cluck down a roadside ditch. he find a little wisp of grass float there and cling to it till he lose his sens. when he revive he be lie in the hot sun on the middle of a garden path very draggle indeed and a small boy be say. here s a dead mongoose. let s have a funeral. 
no say his mother. let s take him in and dry him. perhaps he isn t really dead. 
they take him into the house and a big man pick him up between his finger and thumb and say he be not dead but half choke. so they wrap him in cotton wool and warm him and he open his eye and sneeze. 
now say the big man. he be an englishman who have just move into the bungalow. don t frighten him and we ll see what he ll do. 
it be the hard thing in the world to frighten a mongoose because he be eat up from nose to tail with curiosity. the motto of all the mongoose family be run and find out. and rikki tikki be a true mongoose. he look at the cotton wool decide that it be not good to eat run all round the table sit up and put his fur in order scratch himself and jump on the small boy s shoulder. 
don t be frighten teddy say his father. that s his way of make friend. 
ouch. he s tickle under my chin say teddy. 
rikki tikki look down between the boy s collar and neck snuff at his ear and climb down to the floor where he sit rub his nose. 
good gracious say teddy s mother and that s a wild creature. i suppose he s so tame because we ve be kind to him. 
all mongoose be like that say her husband. if teddy doesn t pick him up by the tail or try to put him in a cage he ll run in and out of the house all day long. let s give him something to eat. 
they give him a little piece of raw meat. rikki tikki like it immensely and when it be finish he go out into the verandah and sit in the sunshine and fluff up his fur to make it dry to the root. then he felt good. 
there be more thing to find out about in this house he say to himself than all my family could find out in all their life. i shall certainly stay and find out. 
he spend all that day roam over the house. he nearly drown himself in the bath tub put his nose into the ink on a write table and burn it on the end of the big man s cigar for he climb up in the big man s lap to see how write be do. at nightfall he run into teddy s nursery to watch how the kerosene lamp be light and when teddy go to bed rikki tikki climb up too. but he be a restless companion because he have to get up and attend to every noise all through the night and find out what make it. teddy s mother and father come in the last thing to look at their boy and rikki tikki be awake on the pillow. i don t like that say teddy s mother. he may bite the child. he ll do no such thing say the father. teddy s safe with that little beast than if he have a bloodhound to watch him. if a snake come into the nursery now. 
but teddy s mother wouldn t think of anything so awful. 
early in the morning rikki tikki come to early breakfast in the verandah rid on teddy s shoulder and they give him banana and some boil egg. and he sit on all their lap one after the other because every well bring up mongoose always hope to be a house mongoose some day and have room to run about in and rikki tikki s mother. she use to live in the general s house at segowlee. have carefully tell rikki what to do if ever he come across white men. 
then rikki tikki go out into the garden to see what be to be see. it be a large garden only half cultivate with bush a big a summer house of marshal niel rose lime and orange tree clump of bamboo and thicket of high grass. rikki tikki lick his lip. this be a splendid hunt grind he say and his tail grow bottle brushy at the think of it and he scuttle up and down the garden snuff here and there till he hear very sorrowful voice in a thorn bush. 
it be darzee the tailor bird and his wife. they have make a beautiful nest by pull two big leaf together and stitch them up the edge with fibre and have fill the hollow with cotton and downy fluff. the nest sway to and fro a they sit on the rim and cry. 
what be the matter. ask rikki tikki. 
we be very miserable say darzee. one of our baby fell out of the nest yesterday and nag eat him. 
h m. say rikki tikki that be very sad but i be a strange here. who be nag. 
darzee and his wife only cower down in the nest without answer for from the thick grass at the foot of the bush there come a low hiss a horrid cold sound that make rikki tikki jump back two clear foot. then inch by inch out of the grass rise up the head and spread hood of nag the big black cobra and he be five foot long from tongue to tail. when he have lift one third of himself clear of the grind he stay balance to and fro exactly a a dandelion tuft balance in the wind and he look at rikki tikki with the wicked snake s eye that never change their expression whatever the snake may be think of. 
who be nag. say he. i be nag. the great god brahm put his mark upon all our people when the first cobra spread his hood to keep the sun off brahm a he sleep. look and be afraid. 
he spread out his hood more than ever and rikki tikki saw the spectacle mark on the back of it that look exactly like the eye part of a hook and eye fasten. he be afraid for the minute. but it be impossible for a mongoose to stay frighten for any length of time and though rikki tikki have never meet a live cobra before his mother have feed him on dead one and he know that all a grow mongoose s business in life be to fight and eat snake. nag know that too and at the bottom of his cold heart he be afraid. 
well say rikki tikki and his tail begin to fluff up again mark or no mark do you think it be right for you to eat fledgling out of a nest. 
nag be think to himself and watch the least little movement in the grass behind rikki tikki. he know that mongoose in the garden mean death sooner or late for him and his family but he want to get rikki tikki off his guard. so he drop his head a little and put it on one side. 
let u talk he say. you eat egg. why should not i eat bird. 
behind you. look behind you. sing darzee. 
rikki tikki know good than to waste time in star. he jump up in the air a high a he could go and just under him whiz by the head of nagaina nag s wicked wife. she have creep up behind him a he be talk to make an end of him. and he hear her savage hiss a the stroke miss. he come down almost across her back and if he have be an old mongoose he would have know that then be the time to break her back with one bite. but he be afraid of the terrible lash return stroke of the cobra. he bite indeed but do not bite long enough and he jump clear of the whisk tail leave nagaina tear and angry. 
wicked wicked darzee. say nag lash up a high a he could reach toward the nest in the thorn bush. but darzee have build it out of reach of snake and it only sway to and fro. 
rikki tikki felt his eye grow red and hot. when a mongoose s eye grow red he be angry. and he sit back on his tail and hind leg like a little kangaroo and look all round him and chatter with rage. but nag and nagaina have disappear into the grass. when a snake miss it stroke it never say anything or give any sign of what it mean to do next. rikki tikki do not care to follow them for he do not feel sure that he could manage two snake at once. so he trot off to the gravel path near the house and sit down to think. it be a serious matter for him. 
if you read the old book of natural history you will find they say that when the mongoose fight the snake and happen to get bite he run off and eat some herb that cure him. that be not true. the victory be only a matter of quickness of eye and quickness of foot snake s blow against mongoose s jump and a no eye can follow the motion of a snake s head when it strike that make thing much more wonderful than any magic herb. rikki tikki know he be a young mongoose and it make him all the more please to think that he have manage to escape a blow from behind. it give him confidence in himself and when teddy come run down the path rikki tikki be ready to be pet. 
but just a teddy be stoop something flinch a little in the dust and a tiny voice say. be careful. i be death. it be karait the dusty brown snakeling that lie for choice on the dusty earth. and his bite be a dangerous a the cobra s. but he be so small that nobody think of him and so he doe the more harm to people. 
rikki tikki s eye grow red again and he dance up to karait with the peculiar rock sway motion that he have inherit from his family. it look very funny but it be so perfectly balance a gait that you can fly off from it at any angle you please. and in deal with snake this be an advantage. if rikki tikki have only know he be do a much more dangerous thing than fight nag for karait be so small and can turn so quickly that unless rikki bite him close to the back of the head he would get the return stroke in his eye or lip. but rikki do not know. his eye be all red and he rock back and forth look for a good place to hold. karait strike out. rikki jump sideways and try to run in but the wicked little dusty gray head lash within a fraction of his shoulder and he have to jump over the body and the head follow his heel close. 
teddy shout to the house. oh look here. our mongoose be kill a snake. and rikki tikki hear a scream from teddy s mother. his father run out with a stick but by the time he come up karait have lunge out once too far and rikki tikki have spring jump on the snake s back drop his head far between his fore leg bite a high up the back a he could get hold and roll away. that bite paralyse karait and rikki tikki be just go to eat him up from the tail after the custom of his family at dinner when he remember that a full meal make a slow mongoose and if he want all his strength and quickness ready he must keep himself thin. 
he go away for a dust bath under the castor oil bush while teddy s father beat the dead karait. what be the use of that. think rikki tikki. i have settle it all. and then teddy s mother pick him up from the dust and hug him cry that he have save teddy from death and teddy s father say that he be a providence and teddy look on with big scar eye. rikki tikki be rather amuse at all the fuss which of course he do not understand. teddy s mother might just a well have pet teddy for play in the dust. rikki be thoroughly enjoy himself. 
that night at dinner walk to and fro among the wine glass on the table he could have stuff himself three time over with nice thing. but he remember nag and nagaina and though it be very pleasant to be pat and pet by teddy s mother and to sit on teddy s shoulder his eye would get red from time to time and he would go off into his long war cry of rikk tikk tikki tikki tchk. 
teddy carry him off to bed and insist on rikki tikki sleep under his chin. rikki tikki be too well breed to bite or scratch but a soon a teddy be asleep he go off for his nightly walk round the house and in the dark he run up against chuchundra the musk rat creep round by the wall. chuchundra be a break hearted little beast he whimper and cheep all the night try to make up his mind to run into the middle of the room but he never get there. 
don t kill me say chuchundra almost weep. rikki tikki don t kill me. 
do you think a snake killer kill musk rat. say rikki tikki scornfully. 
those who kill snake get kill by snake say chuchundra more sorrowfully than ever. and how be i to be sure that nag win t mistake me for you some dark night. 
there s not the least danger say rikki tikki. but nag be in the garden and i know you don t go there. 
my cousin chua the rat tell me say chuchundra and then he stop. 
tell you what. 
h sh. nag be everywhere rikki tikki. you should have talk to chua in the garden. 
i didn t so you must tell me. quick chuchundra or i ll bite you. 
chuchundra sit down and cry till the tear roll off his whisker. i be a very poor man he sob. i never have spirit enough to run out into the middle of the room. h sh. i mustn t tell you anything. can t you hear_ rikki tikki. 
rikki tikki listen. the house be a still a still but he think he could just catch the faint scratch scratch in the world a noise a faint a that of a wasp walk on a window pane the dry scratch of a snake s scale on brickwork. 
that s nag or nagaina he say to himself. and he s crawl into the bath room sluice. you re right chuchundra. i should have talk to chua. 
he steal off to teddy s bath room but there be nothing there and then to teddy s mother s bath room. at the bottom of the smooth plaster wall there be a brick pull out to make a sluice for the bath water and a rikki tikki steal in by the masonry curb where the bath be put he hear nag and nagaina whisper together outside in the moonlight. 
when the house be empty of people say nagaina to her husband he will have to go away and then the garden will be our own again. go in quietly and remember that the big man who kill karait be the first one to bite. then come out and tell me and we will hunt for rikki tikki together. 
but be you sure that there be anything to be gain by kill the people. say nag. 
everything. when there be no people in the bungalow do we have any mongoose in the garden. so long a the bungalow be empty we be king and queen of the garden. and remember that a soon a our egg in the melon bed hatch. a they may to morrow. our child will need room and quiet. 
i have not think of that say nag. i will go but there be no need that we should hunt for rikki tikki afterward. i will kill the big man and his wife and the child if i can and come away quietly. then the bungalow will be empty and rikki tikki will go. 
rikki tikki tingle all over with rage and hatred at this and then nag s head come through the sluice and his five foot of cold body follow it. angry a he be rikki tikki be very frighten a he saw the size of the big cobra. nag coil himself up raise his head and look into the bath room in the dark and rikki could see his eye glitter. 
now if i kill him here nagaina will know. and if i fight him on the open floor the odds be in his favour. what be i to do. say rikki tikki tavi. 
nag wave to and fro and then rikki tikki hear him drink from the big water jar that be use to fill the bath. that be good say the snake. now when karait be kill the big man have a stick. he may have that stick still but when he come in to bathe in the morning he will not have a stick. i shall wait here till he come. nagaina do you hear me. i shall wait here in the cool till daytime. 
there be no answer from outside so rikki tikki know nagaina have go away. nag coil himself down coil by coil round the bulge at the bottom of the water jar and rikki tikki stay still a death. after an hour he begin to move muscle by muscle toward the jar. nag be asleep and rikki tikki look at his big back wonder which would be the best place for a good hold. if i don t break his back at the first jump say rikki he can still fight. and if he fight o rikki. he look at the thickness of the neck below the hood but that be too much for him. and a bite near the tail would only make nag savage. 
it must be the head he say at last. the head above the hood. and when i be once there i must not let go. 
then he jump. the head be lie a little clear of the water jar under the curve of it. and a his teeth meet rikki brace his back against the bulge of the red earthen rare to hold down the head. this give him just one second s purchase and he make the most of it. then he be batter to and fro a a rat be shake by a dog to and fro on the floor up and down and round in great circle. at his eye be red and he hold on a the body cart whip over the floor upset the tin dipper and the soap dish and the flesh brush and bang against the tin side of the bath. a he hold he close his jaw tight and tight for he make sure he would be bang to death and for the honour of his family prefer to be find with his teeth lock. he be dizzy ache and felt shake to piece when something go off like a thunderclap just behind him. a hot wind knock him senseless and red fire sing his fur. the man have be waken by the noise and have fire both barrel of a shoot gun into nag just behind the hood. 
rikki tikki hold on with his eye shut for now he be quite sure he be dead. but the head do not move and the big man pick him up and say. it s the mongoose again alice. the little chap ha save our life now. then teddy s mother come in with a very white face and saw what be leave of nag and rikki tikki drag himself teddy s bedroom and spend half the rest of the night shake himself tenderly to find out whether he really break into forty piece a he fancy. 
when morning come he be very stiff but well please with his do. now i have nagaina to settle with and she will be bad than five nag and there s no know when the egg she speak of will hatch. goodness. i must go and see darzee he say. 
without wait for breakfast rikki tikki run to the thorn bush where darzee be sing a song of triumph at the top of his voice. the news of nag s death be all over the garden for the sweeper have throw the body on the rubbish heap. 
oh you stupid tuft of feather. say rikki tikki angrily. be this the time to sing. 
nag be dead be dead be dead. sing darzee. the valiant rikki tikki catch him by the head and hold fast. the big man bring the bang stick and nag fell in two piece. he will never eat my baby again. 
all that s true enough. but where s nagaina. say rikki tikki look carefully round him. 
nagaina come to the bath room sluice and call for nag darzee go on. and nag come out on the end of a stick the sweeper pick him up on the end of a stick and throw him upon the rubbish heap. let u sing about the great the red eye rikki tikki. and darzee fill his throat and sing. 
if i could get up to your nest i d roll all your baby out. say rikki tikki. you don t know when to do the right thing at the right time. you re safe enough in your nest there but it s war for me down here. stop sing a minute darzee. 
for the great the beautiful rikki tikki s sake i will stop say darzee. what be it o killer of the terrible nag. 
where be nagaina for the third time. 
on the rubbish heap by the stable mourn for nag. great be rikki tikki with the white teeth. 
bother my white teeth. have you ever hear where she keep her egg. 
in the melon bed on the end near the wall where the sun strike nearly all day. she hide them three week ago. 
and you never think it worth while to tell me. the end near the wall you say. 
rikki tikki you be not go to eat her egg. 
not eat exactly. no. darzee if you have a grain of sense you will fly off to the stable and pretend that your wing be break and let nagaina chase you away to this bush. i must get to the melon bed and if i go there now she d see me. 
darzee be a feather brain little fellow who could never hold more than one idea at a time in his head. and just because he know that nagaina s child be bear in egg like his own he didn t think at first that it be fair to kill them. but his wife be a sensible bird and she know that cobra s egg mean young cobra late on. so she fly off from the nest and leave darzee to keep the baby warm and continue his song about the death of nag. darzee be very like a man in some way. 
she flutter in front of nagaina by the rubbish heap and cry out oh my wing be break. the boy in the house throw a stone at me and break it. then she flutter more desperately than ever. 
nagaina lift up her head and hiss you warn rikki tikki when i would have kill him. indeed and truly you ve choose a bad place to be lame in. and she move toward darzee s wife slip along over the dust. 
the boy break it with a stone. shriek darzee s wife. 
well. it may be some consolation to you when you re dead to know that i shall settle account with the boy. my husband lie on the rubbish heap this morning but before night the boy in the house will lie very still. what be the use of run away. i be sure to catch you. little fool look at me. 
darzee s wife know good than to do that_ for a bird who look at a snake s eye get so frighten that she cannot move. darzee s wife flutter on pip sorrowfully and never leave the grind and nagaina quicken her pace. 
rikki tikki hear them go up the path from the stable and he race for the end of the melon patch near the wall. there in the warm litter about the melon very cunningly hide he find twenty five egg about the size of a bantam s egg but with whitish skin instead of shell. 
i be not a day too soon he say. for he could see the baby cobra curl up inside the skin and he know that the minute they be hatch they could each kill a man or a mongoose. he bite off the top of the egg a fast a he could take care to crush the young cobra and turn over the litter from time to time to see whether he have miss any. at last there be only three egg leave and rikki tikki begin to chuckle to himself when he hear darzee s wife scream. 
rikki tikki i lead nagaina toward the house and she ha go into the verandah and oh come quickly she mean kill. 
rikki tikki smash two egg and tumble backward down the melon bed with the third egg in his mouth and scuttle to the verandah a hard a he could put foot to the grind. teddy and his mother and father be there at early breakfast. but rikki tikki saw that they be not eat anything. they sit stone still and their face be white. nagaina be coil up on the mat by teddy s chair within easy strike distance of teddy s bare leg and she be sway to and fro sing a song of triumph. 
son of the big man that kill nag she hiss stay still. i be not ready yet. wait a little. keep very still all you three. if you move i strike and if you do not move i strike. oh foolish people who kill my nag. 
teddy s eye be fix on his father and all his father could do be to whisper sit still teddy. you mustn t move. teddy keep still. 
then rikki tikki come up and cry. turn round nagaina. turn and fight. 
all in good time say she without move her eye. i will settle my account with you presently. look at your friend rikki tikki. they be still and white. they be afraid. they dare not move and if you come a step near i strike. 
look at your egg say rikki tikki in the melon bed near the wall. go and look nagaina. 
the big snake turn half round and saw the egg on the verandah. ah h. give it to me she say. 
rikki tikki put his paw one on each side of the egg and his eye be blood red. what price for a snake s egg. for a young cobra. for a young king cobra. for the last the very last of the brood. the ant be eat all the others down by the melon bed. 
nagaina spin clear round forget everything for the sake of the one egg. and rikki tikki saw teddy s father shoot out a big hand catch teddy by the shoulder and drag him across the little table with the tea cup safe and out of reach of nagaina. 
trick. trick. trick. rikk tck tck. chuckle rikki tikki. the boy be safe and it be i i i that catch nag by the hood last night in the bath room. then he begin to jump up and down all four foot together his head close to the floor. he throw me to and fro but he could not shake me off. he be dead before the big man blow him in two. i do it. rikki tikki tck tck. come then nagaina. come and fight with me. you shall not be a widow long. 
nagaina saw that she have lose her chance of kill teddy and the egg lay between rikki tikki s paw. give me the egg rikki tikki. give me the last of my egg and i will go away and never come back she say lower her hood. 
yes you will go away and you will never come back. for you will go to the rubbish heap with nag. fight widow. the big man ha go for his gun. fight. 
rikki tikki be bound all round nagaina keep just out of reach of her stroke his little eye like hot coal. nagaina gather herself together and fling out at him. rikki tikki jump up and backward. again and again and again she strike and each time her head come with a whack on the mat of the verandah and she gather herself together like a watch spring. then rikki tikki dance in a circle to get behind her and nagaina spin round to keep her head to his head so that the rustle of her tail on the mat sound like dry leaf blow along by the wind. 
he have forget the egg. it still lay on the verandah and nagaina come near and near to it till at last while rikki tikki be draw breath she catch it in her mouth turn to the verandah step and fly like an arrow down the path with rikki tikki behind her. when the cobra run for her life she go like a whip lash flick across a horse s neck. 
rikki tikki know that he must catch her or all the trouble would begin again. she head straight for the long grass by the thorn bush and a he be run rikki tikki hear darzee still sing his foolish little song of triumph. but darzee s wife be wise. she fly off her nest a nagaina come along and flap her wing about nagaina s head. if darzee have help they might have turn her. but nagaina only lower her hood and go on. still the instant s delay bring rikki tikki up to her and a she plunge into the rat hole where she and nag use to live his little white teeth be clench on her tail and he go down with her and very few mongoose however wise and old they may be care to follow a cobra into it hole. it be dark in the hole. and rikki tikki never know when it might open out and give nagaina room to turn and strike at him. he hold on savagely and strike out his foot to act a brake on the dark slope of the hot moist earth. 
then the grass by the mouth of the hole stop wave and darzee say. it be all over with rikki tikki. we must sing his death song. valiant rikki tikki be dead. for nagaina will surely kill him underground. 
so he sing a very mournful song that he make up on the spur of the minute and just a he get to the most touch part the grass quiver again and rikki tikki cover with dirt drag himself out of the hole leg by leg lick his whisker. darzee stop with a little shout. rikki tikki shake some of the dust out of his fur and sneeze. it be all over he say. the widow will never come out again. and the red ant that live between the grass stem hear him and begin to troop down one after another to see if he have speak the truth. 
rikki tikki curl himself up in the grass and sleep where he be sleep and sleep till it be late in the afternoon for he have do a hard day s work. 
now he say when he awake i will go back to the house. tell the coppersmith darzee and he will tell the garden that nagaina be dead. 
the coppersmith be a bird who make a noise exactly like the beat of a little hammer on a copper pot. and the reason he be always make it be because he be the town crier to every indian garden and tell all the news to everybody who care to listen. a rikki tikki go up the path he hear his attention note like a tiny dinner gong. and then the steady ding dong lock. nag be dead dong. nagaina be dead. ding dong tock. that set all the bird in the garden sing and the frog croak. for nag and nagaina use to eat frog a well a little bird. 
when rikki get to the house teddy and teddy s mother. she look very white still for she have be faint. and teddy s father come out and almost cry over him. and that night he eat all that be give him till he could i eat no more and go to bed on teddy s shoulder where teddy s mother saw him when she come to look late at night. 
he save our life and teddy s life she say to her husband. just think he save all our life. 
rikki tikki wake up with a jump for all the mongoose be light sleeper. 
oh it s you say he. what be you bother for. all the cobra be dead. and if they weren t i m here. 
rikki tikki have a right to be proud of himself. but he do not grow too proud and he keep that garden a a mongoose should keep it with tooth and jump and spring and bite till never a cobra dare show it head inside the wall. 
darzee s chaunt. 
sing in honour of rikki tikki tavi. 
singer and tailor be i double the joy that i know proud of my lilt through the sky proud of the house that i sew over and under so weave i my music so weave i the house that i sew. 
sing to your fledgling again mother oh lift up your head. evil that plague u be slay death in the garden lie dead. terror that hide in the rose be impotent fling on the dung hill and dead. 
who hath deliver u who. tell me his nest and his name. rikki the valiant the true tikki with eyeball of flame rik tikki tikki the ivory fanged the hunter with eyeball of flame. 
give him the thank of the bird bow with tail feather spread. praise him with nightingale word nay i will praise him instead. hear. i will sing you the praise of the bottle tail rikki with eyeball of red. 
here rikki tikki interrupt and the rest of the song be lose. 
william the conqueror part i. 
i have do one brave thing than all the worthy do. and yet a brave thence doth spring which be to keep that hide. the undertake. 
be it officially declare yet. 
they ve go a far a to admit extreme local scarcity and they ve start relief work in one or two district the paper say. 
that mean it will be declare a soon a they can make sure of the men and the roll stock. shouldn t wonder if it be a bad a the big famine. 
can t be say scott turn a little in the long cane chair. we ve have fifteen anna crop in the north and bombay and bengal report more than they know what to do with. they ll be able to check it before it get out of hand. it will only be local. 
martyn pick up the pioneer from the table read through the telegram once more and put up his foot on the chair rest. it be a hot dark breathless even heavy with the smell of the newly water mall. the flower in the club garden be dead and black on their stalk the little lotus pond be a circle of cake mud and the tamarisk tree be white with the dust of day. most of the men be at the bandstand in the public garden from the club verandah you could hear the native police band hammer stale waltz or on the polo grind or in the high wall five court hot than a dutch oven. half a dozen groom squat at the head of their pony wait their master return. from time to time a man would ride at a foot pace into the club compound and listlessly loaf over to the whitewash barrack beside the main build. these be suppose to be chamber. men live in them meet the same face night after night at dinner and draw out their office work till the late possible hour that they might escape that doleful company. 
what be you go to do. say martyn with a yawn. let s have a swim before dinner. 
water s hot say scott. i be at the bath to day. 
play you game o billiards fifty up. 
it s a hundred and five in the hall now. sit still and don t be so abominably energetic. 
a grunt camel swing up to the porch his badge and belt rider fumble a leather pouch. 
kubber kargaz ki yektraaa_ the man whine hand down the newspaper extra a slip print on one side only and damp from the press. it be pin on the green baize board between notice of pony for sale and fox terrier miss. 
martyn rise lazily read it and whistle. it s declare. he cry. one two three eight district go under the operation of the famine code ek dum. they ve put jimmy hawkins in charge. 
good business. say scott with the first sign of interest he have show. when in doubt hire a punjabi. i work under jimmy when i first come out and he belong to the punjab. he ha more bundobust than most men. 
jimmy s a jubilee knight now say martyn. he be a good chap even though he be a thrice bear civilian and go to the benight presidency. what unholy name these madras district rejoice in all ungas or rungas or pillays or polliums. 
a dog cart drive up and a man enter mop his head. he be editor of the one daily paper at the capital of a province of twenty five million native and a few hundred white men and a his staff be limit to himself and one assistant his office hour run variously from ten to twenty a day. 
hi rain. you re suppose to know everything say martyn stop him. how s this madras scarcity go to turn out. 
no one know a yet. there s a message a long a your arm come in on the telephone. i ve leave my cub to fill it out. madras ha own she can t manage it alone and jimmy seem to have a free hand in get all the men he need. arbuthnot s warn to hold himself in readiness. 
badger arbuthnot. 
the peshawur chap. yes and the pi wire that elli and clay have be move from the north west already and they ve take half a dozen bombay men too. it s pukka famine by the look of it. 
they re near the scene of action than we be. but if it come to indent on the punjab this early there s more in this than meet the eye say martyn. 
here to day and go to morrow. didn t come to stay for ever say scott drop one of marryat s novel and rise to his foot. martyn your sister s wait for you. 
a rough gray horse be back and shift at the edge of the verandah where the light of a kerosene lamp fell on a brown calico habit and a white face under a gray felt hat. 
right o say martyn. i m ready. good come and dine with u if you ve nothing to do scott. william be there any dinner in the house. 
i ll go home first and see be the rider s answer. you can drive him over at eight remember. 
scott move leisurely to his room and change into the even dress of the season and the country. spotless white linen from head to foot with a broad silk cummerbund. dinner at the martyns be a decide improvement on the goat mutton twiney tough fowl and tin entree of the club. but it be a great pity martyn could not afford to send his sister to the hill for the hot weather. a an act district superintendent of police martyn draw the magnificent pay of six hundred depreciate silver rupee a month and his little four room bungalow say just a much. there be the usual blue and white strip jail make rug on the uneven floor. the usual glass stud amritsar phulkaris drape to nail drive into the flake whitewash of the wall. the usual half dozen chair that do not match pick up at sale of dead men s effect. and the usual streak of black grease where the leather punka thong run through the wall. it be a though everything have be unpack the night before to be repacked next morning. not a door in the house be true on it hinge. the little window fifteen foot up be darken with wasp nest and lizard hunt fly between the beam of the wood ceiled roof. but all this be part of scott s life. thus do people live who have such an income. and in a land where each man s pay age and position be print in a book that all may read it be hardly worth while to play at pretence in word or deed. scott count eight year service in the irrigation department and draw eight hundred rupee a month on the understand that if he serve the state faithfully for another twenty two year he could retire on a pension of some four hundred rupee a month. his work life which have be spend chiefly under canvas or in temporary shelter where a man could sleep eat and write letter be bind up with the open and guard of irrigation canal the handle of two or three thousand workman of all caste and creed and the payment of vast sum of coin silver. he have finish that spring not without credit the last section of the great mosuhl canal and much against his will for he hat office work have be send in to serve during the hot weather on the account and supply side of the department with sole charge of the swelter sub office at the capital of the province. martyn know this. william his sister know it. and everybody know it. 
scott know too a well a the rest of the world that miss martyn have come out to india four year before to keep house for her brother who a everyone again know have borrow the money to pay for her passage and that she ought a all the world say to have marry long ago. instead of this she have refuse some half a dozen subaltern a civilian twenty year her senior one major and a man in the indian medical department. this too be common property. she have stay down three hot weather a the say be because her brother be in debt and could not afford the expense of her keep at even a cheap hill station. therefore her face be white a bone and in the centre of her forehead be a big silvery scar about the size of a shill the mark of a delhi sore which be the same a a bagdad date. this come from drink bad water and slowly eat into the flesh till it be ripe enough to be burn out with acid. 
none the le william have enjoy herself hugely in her four year. twice she have be nearly drown while ford a river on horseback. once she have be run away with on a camel. have witness a midnight attack of thief on her brother s camp. have see justice administer with long stick in the open under tree. could speak urdu and even rough punjabi with a fluency that be envy by her senior. have altogether fall out of the habit of write to her aunt in england or cut the page of the english magazine. have be through a very bad cholera year see sight unfit to be tell. and have wind up her experience by six week of typhoid fever during which her head have be shave. and hop to keep her twenty third birthday that september. it be conceivable that her aunt would not have approve of a girl who never set foot on the grind if a horse be within hail. who ride to dance with a shawl throw over her skirt. who wear her hair crop and curl all over her head. who answer indifferently to the name of william or bill. whose speech be heavy with the flower of the vernacular. who could act in amateur theatrical play on the banjo rule eight servant and two horse their account and their disease and look men slowly and deliberately between the eye yea after they have propose to her and be reject. 
i like men who do thing she have confide to a man in the educational department who be teach the son of cloth merchant and dyer the beauty of wordsworth s excursion in annotate cram book. and when he grow poetical william explain that she didn t understand poetry very much. it make her head ache and another break heart take refuge at the club. but it be all william s fault. she delight in hear men talk of their own work and that be the most fatal way of bring a man to your foot. 
scott have know her more or le for some three year meet her a a rule under canvas when his camp and her brother s join for a day on the edge of the indian desert. he have dance with her several time at the big christmas gathering when a many a five hundred white people come into the station. and he have always a great respect for her housekeep and her dinner. 
she look more like a boy than ever when after their meal she sit one foot tuck under her on the leather camp sofa roll cigarette for her brother her low forehead pucker beneath the dark curl a she twiddle the paper. she stick out her round chin when the tobacco stay in place and with a gesture a true a a school boy s throw a stone toss the finish article across the room to martyn who catch it with one hand and continue his talk with scott. it be all shop canal and the police of canal. the sin of villager who steal more water than they have pay for and the gross sin of native constable who connive at the theft. of the transplant bodily of village to newly irrigate grind and of the come fight with the desert in the south when the provincial fund should warrant the open of the long survey luni protective canal system. and scott speak openly of his great desire to be put on one particular section of the work where he know the land and the people and martyn sigh for a billet in the himalayan foot hill and speak his mind of his superior and william roll cigarette and say nothing but smile gravely on her brother because he be happy. 
at ten scott s horse come to the door and the even be end. 
the light of the two low bungalow in which the daily paper be print show bright across the road. it be too early to try to find sleep and scott drift over to the editor. rain strip to the waist like a sailor at a gun lay in a long chair wait for night telegram. he have a theory that if a man do not stay by his work all day and most of the night he lay himself open to fever. so he eat and sleep among his file. 
can you do it. he say drowsily. i didn t mean to bring you over. 
about what. i ve be din at the martyns. 
the famine of course martyn s warn for it too. they re take men where they can find em. i send a note to you at the club just now ask if you could do u a letter once a week from the south between two and three column say. nothing sensational of course but just plain fact about who be do what and so forth. our regular rate ten rupee a column. 
sorry but it s out of my line scott answer star absently at the map of india on the wall. it s rough on martyn very. wonder what he ll do with his sister. wonder what the deuce they ll do with me. i ve no famine experience. this be the first i ve hear of it. be i order. 
oh yes. here s the wire. they ll put you on relief work rain go on with a horde of madrassis die like fly. one native apothecary and half a pint of cholera mixture among the ten thousand of you. it come of your be idle for the moment. every man who isn t do two men s work seem to have be call upon. hawkins evidently belief in punjabi. it s go to be quite a bad a anything they have have in the last ten year. 
it s all in the day s work bad luck. i suppose i shall get my order officially some time to morrow. i m glad i happen to drop in. good go and pack my kit now. who relief me here do you know. 
rain turn over a sheaf of telegram. mceuan say he from murree. 
scott chuckle. he think he be go to be cool all summer. he ll be very sick about this. well no good talk. night. 
two hour late scott with a clear conscience lay himself down to rest on a string cot in a bare room. two wear bullock trunk a leather water bottle a tin ice box and his pet saddle sew up in sack be pile at the door and the club secretary s receipt for last month s bill be under his pillow. his order come next morning and with them an unofficial telegram from sir jam hawkins who do not forget good men bid him report himself with all speed at some unpronounceable place fifteen hundred mile to the south for the famine be sore in the land and white men be need. 
a pink and fattish youth arrive in the red hot noonday whimper a little at fate and famine which never allow any one three month peace. he be scott s successor another cog in the machinery move forward behind his fellow whose service a the official announcement run be place at the disposal of the madras government for famine duty until further order. scott hand over the fund in his charge show him the cool corner in the office warn him against excess of zeal and a twilight fell depart from the club in a hire carriage with his faithful body servant faiz ullah and a mound of disorder baggage atop to catch the southern mail at the loopholed and bastioned railway station. the heat from the thick brick wall strike him across the face a if it have be a hot towel and he reflect that there be at least five night and four day of travel before him. faiz ullah use to the chance of service plunge into the crowd on the stone platform while scott a black cheroot between his teeth wait till his compartment should be set away. a dozen native policeman with their rifle and bundle shoulder into the press of punjabi farmer sikh craftsman and greasy lock afreedee pedlar escort with all pomp martyn s uniform case water bottle ice box and bed roll. they saw faiz ullah s lift hand and steer for it. 
my sahib and your sahib say faiz ullah to martyn s man will travel together. thou and i o brother will thus secure the servant place close by and because of our master authority none will dare to disturb u. 
when faiz ullah report all thing ready scott settle down coatless and bootless on the broad leather cover bunk. the heat under the iron arch roof of the station might have be anything over a hundred degree. at the last moment martyn enter hot and drip. 
don t swear say scott lazily. it s too late to change your carriage. and we ll divide the ice. 
what be you do here. say the policeman. 
lend to the madras government same a you. by jove it s a bender of a night. be you take any of your men down. 
a dozen. suppose i ll have to superintend relief distribution. didn t know you be under order too. 
i didn t till after i leave you last night. rain have the news first. my order come this morning. mceuan relieve me at four and i get off at once. shouldn t wonder if it wouldn t be a good thing this famine if we come through it alive. 
jimmy ought to put you and me to work together say martyn. and then after a pause. my sister s here. 
good business say scott heartily. go to get off at umballa i suppose and go up to simla. who ll she stay with there. 
no o. that s just the trouble of it. she s go down with me. 
scott sit bolt upright under the oil lamp a the train jolt past tarn taran station. what. you don t mean you couldn t afford. 
oh i d have scrap up the money somehow. 
you might have come to me to begin with say scott stiffly. we aren t altogether stranger. 
well you needn t be stuffy about it. i might but you don t know my sister. i ve be explain and exhort and entreat and command and all the rest of it all day lose my temper since seven this morning and haven t get it back yet but she wouldn t hear of any compromise a woman s entitle to travel with her husband if she want to and william say she s on the same foot. you see we ve be together all our life more or le since my people die. it isn t a if she be an ordinary sister. 
all the sister i ve ever hear of would have stay where they be well off. 
she s a clever a a man confound her martyn go on. she break up the bungalow over my head while i be talk at her. settle the whole subchiz [outfit] in three hour servant horse and all. i didn t get my order till nine. 
jimmy hawkins win t be please say scott. a famine s no place for a woman. 
mr. jim i mean lady jim s in camp with him. at any rate she say she will look after my sister. william wire down to her on her own responsibility ask if she could come and knock the grind from under me by show me her answer. 
scott laugh aloud. if she can do that she can take care of herself and mr. jim win t let her run into any mischief. there aren t many woman sister or wife who would walk into a famine with their eye open. it isn t a if she didn t know what these thing mean. she be through the jaloo cholera last year. 
the train stop at amritsar and scott go back to the lady compartment immediately behind their carriage. william a cloth rid cap on her curl nod affably. 
come in and have some tea she say. best thing in the world for heat apoplexy. 
do i look a if i be go to have heat apoplexy. 
never can tell say william wisely. it s always best to be ready. 
she have arrange her belonging with the knowledge of an old campaigner. a felt cover water bottle hang in the draught of one of the shutter window. a tea set of russian china pack in a wad basket stand ready on the seat. and a travel spirit lamp be clamp against the woodwork above it. 
william serve them generously in large cup hot tea which save the vein of the neck from swell inopportunely on a hot night. it be characteristic of the girl that her plan of action once settle she ask for no comment on it. life with men who have a great deal of work to do and very little time to do it in have teach her the wisdom of efface a well a of fend for herself. she do not by word or deed suggest that she would be useful comfort or beautiful in their travel but continue about her business serenely. put the cup back without clatter when tea be end and make cigarette for her guest. 
this time last night say scott we didn t expect er this kind of thing do we. 
i ve learn to expect anything say william. you know in our service we live at the end of the telegraph. but of course this ought to be a good thing for u all departmentally if we live. 
it knock u out of the run in our own province scott reply with equal gravity. i hop to be put on the luni protective work this cold weather. but there s no say how long the famine may keep u. 
hardly beyond october i should think say martyn. it will be end one way or the other then. 
and we ve nearly a week of this say william. sha n t we be dusty when it s over. 
for a night and a day they know their surround. and for a night and a day skirt the edge of the great indian desert on a narrow gauge line they remember how in the day of their apprenticeship they have come by that road from bombay. then the language in which the name of the station be write change and they launch south into a foreign land where the very smell be new. many long and heavily lade grain train be in front of them and they could feel the hand of jimmy hawkins from far off. they wait in extemporise siding block by procession of empty truck return to the north and be couple on to slow crawl train and drop at midnight heaven know where. but it be furiously hot. and they walk to and fro among sack and dog howl. 
then they come to an india more strange to them than to the untravelled englishman the flat red india of palm tree palmyra palm and rice the india of the picture book of little henry and his bearer all dead and dry in the bake heat. they have leave the incessant passenger traffic of the north and west far and far behind them. here the people crawl to the side of the train hold their little one in their arm. and a load truck would be leave behind men and woman cluster round and above it like ant by spill honey. once in the twilight they saw on a dusty plain a regiment of little brown men each bear a body over his shoulder. and when the train stop to leave yet another truck they perceive that the burden be not corps but only foodless folk pick up beside their dead ox by a corp of irregular troop. now they meet more white men here one and there two whose tent stand close to the line and who come arm with write authority and angry word to cut off a truck. they be too busy to do more than nod at scott and martyn and stare curiously at william who could do nothing except make tea and watch how her men stave off the rush of wail walk skeleton put them down three at a time in heap with their own hand uncouple the mark truck or take receipt from the hollow eye weary white men who speak another argot than theirs. 
they run out of ice out of soda water and out of tea. for they be six day and seven night on the road and it seem to them like seven time seven year. 
at last in a dry hot dawn in a land of death light by long red fire of railway sleeper where they be burn the dead they come to their destination and be meet by jim hawkins the head of the famine unshaven unwashed but cheery and entirely in command of affair. 
martyn he decree then and there be to live on train till further order. be to go back with empty truck fill them with starve people a he find them and drop them at a famine camp on the edge of the eight district. he would pick up supply and return and his constable would guard the load grain car also pick up people and would drop them at a camp a hundred mile south. scott hawkins be very glad to see scott again would that same hour take charge of a convoy of bullock cart and would go south feed a he go to yet another famine camp far from the rail where he would leave his starve there would be no lack of starve on the route and wait for order by telegraph. generally scott be in all small thing to do what he think best. 
william bite her under lip. there be no one in the wide world like her one brother but martyn s order give him no discretion. she come out mask with dust from head to foot a horse shoe wrinkle on her forehead put here by much think during the past week but a self possess a ever. mr. jim who should have be lady jim but that no one remember to call her aright take possession of her with a little gasp. 
oh i m so glad you re here she almost sob. you oughtn t to of course but there there isn t another woman in the place and we must help each other you know. and we ve all the wretched people and the little baby they be sell. 
i ve see some say william. 
isn t it ghastly. i ve buy twenty. they re in our camp. but win t you have something to eat first. we ve more than ten people can do here. and i ve get a horse for you. oh i m so glad you ve come. you re a punjabi too you know. 
steady lizzie say hawkins over his shoulder. we ll look after you miss martyn. sorry i can t ask you to breakfast martyn. you ll have to eat a you go. leave two of your men to help scott. these poor devil can t stand up to load cart. saunders. this to the engine driver half asleep in the cab. back down and get those empty away. you ve line clear to anundrapillay. they ll give you order north of that. scott load up your cart from that b. p. p. truck and be off a soon a you can. the eurasian in the pink shirt be your interpreter and guide. you ll find an apothecary of sort tie to the yoke of the second wagon. he s be try to bolt. you ll have to look after him. lizzie drive miss martyn to camp and tell them to send the red horse down here for me. 
scott with faiz ullah and two policeman be already busy on the cart back them up to the truck and unbolt the sideboard quietly while the others pitch in the bag of millet and wheat. hawkins watch him for a long a it take to fill one cart. 
that s a good man he say. if all go well i shall work him hard. this be jim hawkins s notion of the high compliment one human be could pay another. 
an hour late scott be under way. the apothecary threaten him with the penalty of the law for that he a member of the subordinate medical department have be coerce and bind against his will and all law govern the liberty of the subject. the pink shirt eurasian beg leave to see his mother who happen to be die some three mile away. only verree verree short leave of absence and will presently return sar. the two constable arm with stave bring up the rear. and faiz ullah a mohammedan s contempt for all hindoo and foreigner in every line of his face explain to the driver that though scott sahib be a man to be fear on all four he faiz ullah be authority itself. 
the procession creak past hawkins s camp three stain tent under a clump of dead tree. behind them the famine shed where a crowd of hopeless one toss their arm around the cook kettle. 
wish to heaven william have keep out of it say scott to himself after a glance. we ll have cholera sure a a gun when the rain come. 
but william seem to have take kindly to the operation of the famine code which when famine be declare supersede the working of the ordinary law. scott saw her the centre of a mob of weep woman in a calico rid habit and a blue gray felt hat with a gold puggaree. 
i want fifty rupee please. i forget to ask jack before he go away. can you lend it me. it s for condense milk for the baby say she. 
scott take the money from his belt and hand it over without a word. for goodness sake take care of yourself he say. 
oh i shall be all right. we ought to get the milk in two day. by the way the order be i be to tell you that you re to take one of sir jim s horse. there s a gray cabuli here that i think would be just your style so i ve say you d take him. be that right. 
that s awfully good of you. we can t either of u talk much about style i m afraid. 
scott be in a weather stain drill shoot kit very white at the seam and a little fray at the wrist. william regard him thoughtfully from his pith helmet to his grease ankle boot. you look very nice i think. be you sure you ve everything you ll need quinine chlorodyne and so on. 
think so say scott pat three or four of his shoot pocket a the horse be lead up and he mount and ride alongside his convoy. 
good bye he cry. 
good bye and good luck say william. i m awfully oblige for the money. she turn on a spur heel and disappear into the tent while the cart push on past the famine shed past the roar line of the thick fat fire down to the bake gehenna of the south. 
william the conqueror. 
part ii. 
so let u melt and make no noise no tear flood nor sigh tempest move. twere profanation of our joy to tell the laity our love. a valediction. 
it be punish work even though he travel by night and camp by day. but within the limit of his vision there be no man whom scott could call master. he be a free a jimmy hawkins free in fact for the government hold the head of the famine tie neatly to a telegraph wire and if jimmy have ever regard telegram seriously the death rate of that famine would have be much high than it be. 
at the end of a few day crawl scott learn something of the size of the india which he serve. and it astonish him. his cart a you know be load with wheat millet and barley good food grain need only a little grind. but the people to whom he bring the life give stuff be rice eater. they know how to hull rice in their mortar but they know nothing of the heavy stone quern of the north and le of the material that the white man convoy so laboriously. they clamour for rice unhusked paddy such a they be accustom to and when they find that there be none break away weep from the side of the cart. what be the use of these strange hard grain that choke their throat. they would die. and then and there be many of them keep their word. others take their allowance and barter enough millet to fee a man through a week for a few handful of rotten rice save by some le unfortunate. a few put their share into the rice mortar pound it and make a paste with foul water. but they be very few. scott understand dimly that many people in the india of the south eat rice a a rule but he have spend his service in a grain province have seldom see rice in the blade or the ear and least of all would have believe that in time of deadly need men would die at arm s length of plenty sooner than touch food they do not know. in vain the interpreter interpret. in vain his two policeman show by vigorous pantomime what should be do. the starve creep away to their bark and weed grub leaf and clay and leave the open sack untouched. but sometimes the woman lay their phantom of child at scott s foot look back a they stagger away. 
faiz ullah opine it be the will of god that these foreigner should die and therefore it remain only to give order to burn the dead. none the le there be no reason why the sahib should lack his comfort and faiz ullah a campaigner of experience have pick up a few lean goat and have add them to the procession. that they might give milk for the morning meal he be feed them on the good grain that these imbecile reject. yes say faiz ullah. if the sahib think fit a little milk might be give to some of the baby. but a the sahib well know baby be cheap and for his own part faiz ullah hold that there be no government order a to baby. scott speak forcefully to faiz ullah and the two policeman and bid them capture goat where they could find them. this they most joyfully do for it be a recreation and many ownerless goat be drive in. once feed the poor brute be will enough to follow the cart and a few day good food food such a human being die for lack of set them in milk again. 
but i be no goatherd say faiz ullah. it be against my izzat [my honour]. 
when we cross the bias river again we will talk of izzat_ scott reply. till that day thou and the policeman shall be sweeper to the camp if i give the order. 
thus then it be do grunt faiz ullah if the sahib will have it so. and he show how a goat should be milk while scott stand over him. 
now we will fee them say scott. thrice a day we will fee them. and he bow his back to the milk and take a horrible cramp. 
when you have to keep connection unbroken between a restless mother of kid and a baby who be at the point of death you suffer in all your system. but the baby be feed. morning noon and even scott would solemnly lift them out one by one from their nest of gunny bag under the cart tilt. there be always many who could do no more than breathe and the milk be drop into their toothless mouth drop by drop with due pause when they choke. each morning too the goat be feed. and since they would struggle without a leader and since the native be hireling scott be force to give up rid and pace slowly at the head of his flock accommodate his step to their weakness. all this be sufficiently absurd and he felt the absurdity keenly. but at least he be save life and when the woman saw that their child do not die they make shift to eat a little of the strange food and crawl after the cart bless the master of the goat. 
give the woman something to live for say scott to himself a he sneeze in the dust of a hundred little foot and they ll hang on somehow. but this beat william s condense milk trick all to piece. i shall never live it down though. 
he reach his destination very slowly find that a rice ship have come in from burmah and that store of paddy be available. find also an overwork englishman in charge of the shed and load the cart set back to cover the grind he have already pass. he leave some of the child and half his goat at the famine shed. for this he be not thank by the englishman who have already more stray baby than he know what to do with. scott s back be supple to stoop now and he go on with his wayside ministration in addition to distribute the paddy. more baby and more goat be add unto him. but now some of the baby wear rag and bead round their wrist or neck. that_ say the interpreter a though scott do not know signify that their mother hope in eventual contingency to resume them offeecially. 
the sooner the good say scott. but at the same time he mark with the pride of ownership how this or that little ramasawmy be put on flesh like a bantam. a the paddy cart be empty he head for hawkins s camp by the railway time his arrival to fit in with the dinner hour for it be long since he have eat at a cloth. he have no desire to make any dramatic entry but an accident of the sunset order it that when he have take off his helmet to get the even breeze the low light should fall across his forehead and he could not see what be before him. while one wait at the tent door behold with new eye a young man beautiful a paris a god in a halo of golden dust walk slowly at the head of his flock while at his knee run small naked cupid. but she laugh william in a slate colour blouse laugh consumedly till scott put the best face he could upon the matter halt his army and bid her admire the kindergarten. it be an unseemly sight but the propriety have be leave age ago with the tea party at amritsar station fifteen hundred mile to the northward. 
they be come on nicely say william. we ve only five and twenty here now. the woman be begin to take them away again. 
be you in charge of the baby then. 
yes mr. jim and i. we didn t think of goat though. we ve be try condense milk and water. 
any loss. 
more than i care to think of say william with a shudder. and you. 
scott say nothing. there have be many little burial along his route many mother who have weep when they do not find again the child they have trust to the care of the government. 
then hawkins come out carry a razor at which scott look hungrily for he have a beard that he do not love. and when they sit down to dinner in the tent he tell his tale in few word a it might have be an official report. mr. jim snuffle from time to time and jim bow his head judicially. but william s gray eye be on the clean shave face and it be to her that scott seem to speak. 
good for the pauper province. say william her chin in her hand a she lean forward among the wine glass. her cheek have fall in and the scar on her forehead be more prominent than ever but the well turn neck rise roundly a a column from the ruffle of the blouse which be the accept even dress in camp. 
it be awfully absurd at time say scott. you see i didn t know much about milk or baby. they ll chaff my head off if the tale go north. 
let em say william haughtily. we ve all do coolie work since we come. i know jack ha. this be to hawkins s address and the big man smile blandly. 
your brother s a highly efficient officer william say he and i ve do him the honour of treat him a he deserve. remember i write the confidential report. 
then you must say that william s worth her weight in gold say mr. jim. i don t know what we should have do without her. she ha be everything to u. she drop her hand upon william s which be rough with much handle of rein and william pat it softly. jim beam on the company. thing be go well with his world. three of his more grossly incompetent men have die and their place have be fill by their better. every day bring the rain near. they have put out the famine in five of the eight district and after all the death rate have not be too heavy thing consider. he look scott over carefully a an ogre look over a man and rejoice in his thews and iron hard condition. 
he s just the least bite in the world tuck up say jim to himself but he can do two men s work yet. then he be aware that mr. jim be telegraph to him and accord to the domestic code the message run. a clear case. look at them. 
he look and listen. all that william be say be. what can you expect of a country where they call a bhistee [a water carrier] a tunni cutch. and all that scott answer be. i shall be precious glad to get back to the club. save me a dance at the christmas ball win t you. 
it s a far cry from here to the lawrence hall say jim. good turn in early scott. it s paddy cart to morrow. you ll begin load at five. 
aren t you go to give mr. scott one day s rest. 
wish i could lizzie. fraid i can t. a long a he can stand up we must use him. 
well i ve have one europe even at least. by jove i d nearly forget. what do i do about those baby of mine. 
leave them here say william we be in charge of that and a many goat a you can spare. i must learn how to milk now. 
if you care to get up early enough to morrow i ll show you. i have to milk you see. and by the way half of em have bead and thing round their neck. you must be careful not to take em off in case the mother turn up. 
you forget i ve have some experience here. 
i hope to goodness you win t overdo. scott s voice be unguarded. 
i ll take care of her say mr. jim telegraph hundred word message a she carry william off while jim give scott his order for the come campaign. it be very late nearly nine o clock. 
jim you re a brute say his wife that night. and the head of the famine chuckle. 
not a bite of it dear i remember do the first jandiala settlement for the sake of a girl in a crinoline. and she be slender lizzie. i ve never do a good a piece of work since. he_ ll work like a demon. 
but you might have give him one day. 
and let thing come to a head now. no dear. it s their happy time. 
i don t believe either of the dear know what s the matter with them. isn t it beautiful. isn t it lovely. 
get up at three to learn to milk bless her heart. ye god why must we grow old and fat. 
she s a darling. she ha do more work under me. 
under you. the day after she come she be in charge and you be her subordinate and you ve stay there ever since. she manage you almost a well a you manage me. 
she doesn t and that s why i love her. she s a direct a a man a her brother. 
her brother s weak than she be. he s always come to me for order. but he s honest and a glutton for work. i confess i m rather fond of william and if i have a daughter. 
the talk end there. far away in the derajat be a child s grave more than twenty year old and neither jim nor his wife speak of it any more. 
all the same you re responsible jim add after a moment s silence. 
bless em say mr. jim sleepily. 
before the star pal scott who sleep in an empty cart wake and go about his work in silence. it seem at that hour unkind to rouse faiz ullah and the interpreter. his head be close to the grind he do not hear william till she stand over him in the dingy old rid habit her eye still heavy with sleep a cup of tea and a piece of toast in her hand. there be a baby on the grind squirm on a piece of blanket and a six year old child peer over scott s shoulder. 
hai you little rip say scott how the deuce do you expect to get your ration if you aren t quiet. 
a cool white hand steady the brat who forthwith choke a the milk gurgle into his mouth. 
mornin say the milker. you ve no notion how these little fellow can wriggle. 
oh yes i have. she whisper because the world be asleep. only i fee them with a spoon or a rag. yours be fat than mine. and you ve be do this day after day twice a day. the voice be almost lose. 
yes. it be absurd. now you try he say give place to the girl. look out. a goat s not a cow. 
the goat protest against the amateur and there be a scuffle in which scott snatch up the baby. then it be all to do over again and william laugh softly and merrily. she manage however to fee two baby and a third. 
don t the little beggar take it well. say scott. i train em. 
they be very busy and interest when lo. it be broad daylight and before they know the camp be awake and they kneel among the goat surprise by the day both flush to the temple. yet all the round world roll up out of the darkness might have hear and see all that have pass between them. 
oh say william unsteadily snatch up the tea and toast i have this make for you. it s stone cold now. i think you mightn t have anything ready so early. good not drink it. it s it s stone cold. 
that s awfully kind of you. it s just right. it s awfully good of you really. i ll leave my kid and goat with you and mr. jim. and of course any one in camp can show you about the milk. 
of course say william. and she grow pink and pink and stately and more stately a she stride back to her tent fan herself vigorously with the saucer. 
there be shrill lamentation through the camp when the elder child saw their nurse move off without them. faiz ullah unbend so far a to jest with the policeman and scott turn purple with shame because hawkins already in the saddle roar. 
a child escape from the care of mr. jim and run like a rabbit cling to scott s boot william pursue with long easy stride. 
i will not go i will not go. shriek the child twin his foot round scott s ankle. they will kill me here. i do not know these people. 
i say say scott in break tamil i say she will do you no harm. go with her and be well feed. 
come. say william pant with a wrathful glance at scott who stand helpless and a it be hamstring. 
go back say scott quickly to william. i ll send the little chap over in a minute. 
the tone of authority have it effect but in a way scott do not exactly intend. the boy loosen his grasp and say with gravity i do not know the woman be thine. i will go. then he cry to his companion a mob of three four and five year old wait on the success of his venture ere they stampede. go back and eat. it be our man s woman. she will obey his order. 
jim collapse where he sit. faiz ullah and the two policeman grin. and scott s order to the cartmen fly like hail. 
that be the custom of the sahib when truth be tell in their presence say faiz ullah. the time come that i must seek new service. young wife especially such a speak our language and have knowledge of the way of the police make great trouble for honest butler in the matter of weekly account. 
what william think of it all she do not say but when her brother ten day late come to camp for order and hear of scott s performance he say laugh. well that settle it. he ll be bakri scott to the end of his day. bakri_ in the northern vernacular mean a goat. what a lark. i d have give a month s pay to have see him nurse famine baby. i feed some with conjee [rice water] but that be all right. 
it s perfectly disgust say his sister with blaze eye. a man doe something like like that and all you other men think of be to give him an absurd nickname and then you laugh and think it s funny. 
ah say mr. jim sympathetically. 
well you can t talk william. you christen little miss demby the button quail last cold weather. you know you do. india s the land of nickname. 
that s different william reply. she be only a girl and she hadn t do anything except walk like a quail and she doe. but it isn t fair to make fun of a man. 
scott win t care say martyn. you can t get a rise out of old scotty. i ve be try for eight year and you ve only know him for three. how doe he look. 
he look very well say william and go away with a flush cheek. bakri scott indeed. then she laugh to herself for she know the country of her service. but it will be bakri all the same. and she repeat it under her breath several time slowly whisper it into favour. 
when he return to his duty on the railway martyn spread the name far and wide among his associate so that scott meet it a he lead his paddy cart to war. the native believe it to be some english title of honour and the cart driver use it in all simplicity till faiz ullah who do not approve of foreign jape break their head. there be very little time for milk now except at the big camp where jim have extend scott s idea and be feed large flock on the useless northern grain. enough paddy have come into the eight district to hold the people safe if it be only distribute quickly. and for that purpose no one be good than the big canal officer who never lose his temper never give an unnecessary order and never question an order give. scott press on save his cattle wash their gall neck daily so that no time should be lose on the road. report himself with his rice at the minor famine shed unload and go back light by force night march to the next distribute centre to find hawkins s unvarying telegram. do it again. and he do it again and again and yet again while jim hawkins fifty mile away mark off on a big map the track of his wheel gridironing the stricken land. others do well hawkins report at the end that they all do well but scott be the most excellent for he keep good coin rupee by him and pay for his own cart repair on the spot and run to meet all sort of unconsidered extra trust to be recoup late. theoretically the government should have pay for every shoe and linchpin for every hand employ in the load. but government voucher cash themselves slowly and intelligent and efficient clerk write at great length contest unauthorised expenditure of eight anna. the man who wish to make his work a success must draw on his own bank account of money or other thing a he go. 
i tell you he d work say jimmy to his wife at the end of six week. he s be in sole charge of a couple of thousand men up north on the mosuhl canal for a year and he give one le trouble than young martyn with his ten constable. and i m morally certain only government doesn t recognise moral obligation that he s spend about half his pay to grease his wheel. look at this lizzie for one week s work. forty mile in two day with twelve cart. two day halt build a famine shed for young rogers. rogers ought to have build it himself the idiot. then forty mile back again load six cart on the way and distribute all sunday. then in the even he pitch in a twenty page demi official to me say that the people where he be might be advantageously employ on relief work and suggest that he put em to work on some break down old reservoir he s discover so a to have a good water supply when the rain come. he think he can caulk the dam in a fortnight. look at his marginal sketch aren t they clear and good. i know he be pukka_ but i didn t know he be a pukka a this. 
i must show these to william say mr. jim. the child s wear herself out among the baby. 
not more than you be dear. well another two month ought to see u out of the wood. i m sorry it s not in my power to recommend you for a v. c. 
william sit late in her tent that night read through page after page of the square handwrite pat the sketch of propose repair to the reservoir and wrinkle her eyebrow over the column of figure of estimate water supply. 
and he find time to do all this she cry to herself and. well i also be present. i ve save one or two baby. 
she dream for the twentieth time of the god in the golden dust and wake refresh to fee loathsome black child score of them wastrel pick up by the wayside their bone almost break their skin terrible and cover with sore. 
scott be not allow to leave his cart work but his letter be duly forward to the government and he have the consolation not rare in india of know that another man be reap where he have sow. that also be discipline profitable to the soul. 
he s much too good to waste on canal say jimmy. any one can oversee cooly. you needn t be angry william. he can but i need my pearl among bullock driver and i ve transfer him to the khanda district where he ll have it all to do over again. he should be march now. 
he s not a coolie say william furiously. he ought to be do his regulation work. 
he s the best man in his service and that s say a good deal. but if you must use razor to cut grindstone why i prefer the best cutlery. 
isn t it almost time we saw him again. say mr. jim. i m sure the poor boy hasn t have a respectable meal for a month. he probably sit on a cart and eat sardine with his finger. 
all in good time dear. duty before decency wasn t it mr. chuck say that. 
no. it be midshipman easy william laugh. i sometimes wonder how it will feel to dance or listen to a band again or sit under a roof. i can t believe that i ever wear a ball frock in my life. 
one minute say mr. jim who be think. if he go to khanda he pass within five mile of u. of course he ll ride in. 
oh no he win t say william. 
how do you know dear. 
it ll take him off his work. he win t have time. 
he ll make it say mr. jim with a twinkle. 
it depend on his own judgment. there s absolutely no reason why he shouldn t if he think fit say jim. 
he win t see fit william reply without sorrow or emotion. it wouldn t be him if he do. 
one certainly get to know people rather well in time like these say jim drily. but william s face be serene a ever and even a she prophesy scott do not appear. 
the rain fell at last late but heavily. and the dry gash earth be red mud and servant kill snake in the camp where every one be weather bind for a fortnight all except hawkins who take horse and splash about in the wet rejoice. now the government decree that seed grain should be distribute to the people a well a advance of money for the purchase of new ox. and the white men be doubly work for this new duty while william skip from brick to brick lay down on the trample mud and dose her charge with warm medicine that make them rub their little round stomach. and the milch goat thrive on the rank grass. there be never a word from scott in the khanda district away to the south east except the regular telegraphic report to hawkins. the rude country road have disappear. his driver be half mutinous. one of martyn s loan policeman have die of cholera. and scott be take thirty grain of quinine a day to fight the fever that come if one work hard in heavy rain. but those be thing he do not consider necessary to report. he be a usual work from a base of supply on a railway line to cover a circle of fifteen mile radius and since full load be impossible he take quarter load and toil four time a hard by consequence. for he do not choose to risk an epidemic which might have grow uncontrollable by assemble villager in thousand at the relief shed. it be cheap to take government bullock work them to death and leave them to the crow in the wayside slough. 
that be the time when eight year of clean live and hard condition tell though a man s head be ring like a bell from the cinchona and the earth sway under his foot when he stand and under his bed when he sleep. if hawkins have see fit to make him a bullock driver that he think be entirely hawkins s own affair. there be men in the north who would know what he have do. men of thirty year service in his own department who would say that it be not half bad. and above immeasurably above all men of all grade there be william in the thick of the fight who would approve because she understand. he have so train his mind that it would hold fast to the mechanical routine of the day though his own voice sound strange in his own ear and his hand when he write grow large a pillow or small a pea at the end of his wrist. that steadfastness bore his body to the telegraph office at the railway station and dictate a telegram to hawkins say that the khanda district be in his judgment now safe and he wait further order. 
the madrassee telegraph clerk do not approve of a large gaunt man fall over him in a dead faint not so much because of the weight a because of the name and blow that faiz ullah deal him when he find the body roll under a bench. then faiz ullah take blanket and quilt and coverlet where he find them and lay down under them at his master s side and bind his arm with a tent rope and fill him with a horrible stew of herb and set the policeman to fight him when he wish to escape from the intolerable heat of his covering and shut the door of the telegraph office to keep out the curious for two night and one day. and when a light engine come down the line and hawkins kick in the door scott hail him weakly but in a natural voice and faiz ullah stand back and take all the credit. 
for two night heaven bear he be pagal say faiz ullah. look at my nose and consider the eye of the policeman. he beat u with his bind hand. but we sit upon him heaven bear and though his word be tez_ we sweat him. heaven bear never ha be such a sweat. he be weak now than a child. but the fever ha go out of him by the grace of god. there remain only my nose and the eye of the constabeel. sahib shall i ask for my dismissal because my sahib ha beat me. and faiz ullah lay his long thin hand carefully on scott s chest to be sure that the fever be all go ere he go out to open tin soup and discourage such a laugh at his swell nose. 
the district s all right scott whisper. it doesn t make any difference. you get my wire. i shall be fit in a week. can t understand how it happen. i shall be fit in a few day. 
you re come into camp with u say hawkins. 
but look here but. 
it s all over except the shout. we sha n t need you punjabi any more. on my honour we sha n t. martyn go back in a few week. arbuthnot s return already. elli and clay be put the last touch to a new feeder line the government s build a relief work. morten s dead he be a bengal man though. you wouldn t know him. pon my word you and will miss martyn seem to have come through it a well a anybody. 
oh how be she. the voice go up and down a he speak. 
she be in great form when i leave her. the roman catholic mission be adopt the unclaimed baby to turn them into little priest. the basil mission be take some and the mother be take the rest. you should hear the little beggar howl when they re send away from william. she s pull down a bite but so be we all. now when do you suppose you ll be able to move. 
i can t come into camp in this state. i win t he reply pettishly. 
well you be rather a sight but from what i gather there it seem to me they d be glad to see you under any condition. i ll look over your work here if you like for a couple of day and you can pull yourself together while faiz ullah feed you up. 
scott could walk dizzily by the time hawkins s inspection va end and he flush all over when jim say of his work in the district that it be not half bad and volunteer further that he have consider scott his right hand man through the famine and would feel it his duty to say a much officially. 
so they come back by rail to the old camp. but there be no crowd near it the long fire in the trench be dead and black and the famine shed stand almost empty. 
you see. say jim. there isn t much more for u to do. good ride up and see the wife. they ve pitch a tent for you. dinner s at seven. i ll see you then. 
rid at a foot pace faiz ullah by his stirrup scott come to william in the brown calico rid habit sit at the din tent door her hand in her lap white a ash thin and wear with no lustre in her hair. there do not seem to be any mr. jim on the horizon and all that william could say be. my word how pull down you look. 
i ve have a touch of fever. you don t look very well yourself. 
oh i m fit enough. we ve stamp it out. i suppose you know. 
scott nod. we shall all be return in a few week. hawkins tell me. 
before christmas mr. jim say. sha n t you be glad to go back. i can smell the wood smoke already. william sniff. we shall be in time for all the christmas do. i don t suppose even the punjab government would be base enough to transfer jack till the new year. 
it seem hundred of year ago the punjab and all that doesn t it. be you glad you come. 
now it s all over yes. it ha be ghastly here. you know we have to sit still and do nothing and sir jim be away so much. 
do nothing. how do you get on with the milk. 
i manage it somehow after you teach me. 
then the talk stop with an almost audible jar. still no mr. jim. 
that remind me i owe you fifty rupee for the condense milk. i think perhaps you d be come here when you be transfer to the khanda district and i could pay you then. but you didn t. 
i pass within five mile of the camp. it be in the middle of a march you see and the cart be break down every few minute and i couldn t get em over the grind till ten o clock that night. but i want to come awfully. you know i do didn t you. 
i believe i do say william face him with level eye. she be no long white. 
do you understand. 
why you didn t ride in. of course i do. 
why. 
because you couldn t of course. i know that. 
do you care. 
if you have come in but i know you wouldn t but if you had_ i should have care a great deal. you know i should. 
thank god i didn t. oh but i want to. i couldn t trust myself to ride in front of the cart because i keep edge em over here don t you know. 
i know you wouldn t say william contentedly here s your fifty. 
scott bend forward and kiss the hand that hold the greasy note. it fellow pat him awkwardly but very tenderly on the head. 
and you know too didn t you. say william in a new voice. 
no on my honour i didn t. i hadn t the the cheek to expect anything of the kind except. i say be you out rid anywhere the day i pass by to khanda. 
william nod and smile after the manner of an angel surprise in a good deed. 
then it be just a speck i saw of your habit in the. 
palm grove on the southern cart road. i saw your helmet when you come up from the nullah by the temple just enough to be sure that you be all right. d you care. 
this time scott do not kiss her hand for they be in the dusk of the din tent and because william s knee be tremble under her she have to sit down in the near chair where she weep long and happily her head on her arm. and when scott imagine that it would be well to comfort her she need nothing of the kind. she run to her own tent. and scott go out into the world and smile upon it largely and idiotically. but when faiz ullah bring him a drink he find it necessary to support one hand with the other or the good whisky and soda would have be spill abroad. there be fever and fever. 
but it be bad much bad the strain eye shirk talk at dinner till the servant have withdraw and bad of all when mr. jim who have be on the edge of weep from the soup down kiss scott and william and they drink one whole bottle of champagne hot because there be no ice and scott and william sit outside the tent in the starlight till mr. jim drive them in for fear of more fever. 
apropos of these thing and some others william say. be engage be abominable because you see one ha no official position. we must be thankful that we ve lot of thing to do. 
thing to do. say jim when that be report to him. they re neither of them any good any more. i can t get five hour work a day out of scott. he s in the cloud half the time. 
oh but they re so beautiful to watch jimmy. it will break my heart when they go. can t you do anything for him. 
i ve give the government the impression at least i hope i have that he personally conduct the entire famine. but all he want be to get on to the luni canal work and william s just a bad. have you ever hear em talk of barrage and apron and wastewater. it s their style of spoon i suppose. 
mr. jim smile tenderly. ah that s in the interval bless em. 
and so love run about the camp unrebuked in broad daylight while men pick up the piece and put them neatly away of the famine in the eight district. 
* * * * *. 
morning bring the penetrate chill of the northern december the layer of wood smoke the dusty gray blue of the tamarisk the dome of ruin tomb and all the smell of the white northern plain a the mail train run on to the mile long sutlej bridge. william wrap in a poshteen silk embroider sheepskin jacket trim with rough astrakhan look out with moist eye and nostril that dilate joyously. the south of pagoda and palm tree the over populate hindu south be do with. here be the land she know and love and before her lay the good life she understand among folk of her own caste and mind. 
they be pick them up at almost every station now men and woman come in for the christmas week with racquet with bundle of polo stick with dear and bruise cricket bat with fox terrier and saddle. the great part of them wear jacket like william s for the northern cold be a little to be trifle with a the northern heat. and william be among them and of them her hand deep in her pocket her collar turn up over her ear stamp her foot on the platform a she walk up and down to get warm visit from carriage to carriage and everywhere be congratulate. scott be with the bachelor at the far end of the train where they chaff him mercilessly about feed baby and milk goat. but from time to time he would stroll up to william s window and murmur. good enough isn t it. and william would answer with sigh of pure delight. good enough indeed. the large open name of the home town be good to listen to. umballa ludianah phillour jullundur they ring like the come marriage bell in her ear and william felt deeply and truly sorry for all stranger and outsider visitor tourist and those fresh catch for the service of the country. 
it be a glorious return and when the bachelor give the christmas ball william be unofficially you might say the chief and honour guest among the steward who could make thing very pleasant for their friend. she and scott dance nearly all the dance together and sit out the rest in the big dark gallery overlook the superb teak floor where the uniform blaze and the spur clink and the new frock and four hundred dancer go round and round till the drape flag on the pillar flap and belly to the whirl of it. 
about midnight half a dozen men who do not care for dance come over from the club to play wait and that be a surprise the steward have arrange before any one know what have happen the band stop and hide voice break into good king wenceslaus and william in the gallery hum and beat time with her foot. 
mark my footstep well my page tread thou in them boldly thou shalt feel the winter s rage freeze thy blood le coldly. 
oh i hope they be go to give u another. isn t it pretty come out of the dark in that way. look look down. there s mr. gregory wipe her eye. 
it s like home rather say scott. i remember. 
h sh. listen. dear. and it begin again. 
when shepherd watch their flock by night. 
a h h. say william draw close to scott. 
all seat on the grind the angel of the lord come down and glory shine around. fear not say he. for mighty dread. have seize their trouble mind. glad tide of great joy i bring to you and all mankind. 
this time it be william that wipe her eye. 
wee willie winkie. 
an officer and a gentleman. 
his full name be percival william williams but he pick up the other name in a nursery book and that be the end of the christen title. his mother s ayah call him willie baba_ but a he never pay the faint attention to anything that the ayah say her wisdom do not help matter. 
his father be the colonel of the th and a soon a wee willie winkie be old enough to understand what military discipline mean colonel williams put him under it. there be no other way of manage the child. when he be good for a week he draw good conduct pay. and when he be bad he be deprive of his good conduct stripe. generally he be bad for india offer many chance of go wrong to little six year old. 
child resent familiarity from stranger and wee willie winkie be a very particular child. once he accept an acquaintance he be graciously please to thaw. he accept brandis a subaltern of the th on sight. brandis be have tea at the colonel s and wee willie winkie enter strong in the possession of a good conduct badge win for not chase the hen round the compound. he regard brandis with gravity for at least ten minute and then deliver himself of his opinion. 
i like you say he slowly get off his chair and come over to brandis. i like you. i shall call you coppy because of your hair. do you mind be call coppy. it be because of ve hair you know. 
here be one of the most embarrass of wee willie winkie s peculiarity. he would look at a strange for some time and then without warn or explanation would give him a name. and the name stick. no regimental penalty could break wee willie winkie of this habit. he lose his good conduct badge for christen the commissioner s wife pob. but nothing that the colonel could do make the station forego the nickname and mr. collen remain pob till the end of her stay. so brandis be christen coppy and rise therefore in the estimation of the regiment. 
if wee willie winkie take an interest in any one the fortunate man be envy alike by the mess and the rank and file. and in their envy lay no suspicion of self interest. the colonel s son be idolise on his own merit entirely. yet wee willie winkie be not lovely. his face be permanently freckle a his leg be permanently scratch and in spite of his mother s almost tearful remonstrance he have insist upon have his long yellow lock cut short in the military fashion. i want my hair like sergeant tummil s say wee willie winkie and his father abet the sacrifice be accomplish. 
three week after the bestowal of his youthful affection on lieutenant brandis henceforward to be call coppy for the sake of brevity wee willie winkie be destine to behold strange thing and far beyond his comprehension. 
coppy return his like with interest. coppy have let him wear for five rapturous minute his own big sword just a tall a wee willie winkie. coppy have promise him a terrier puppy. and coppy have permit him to witness the miraculous operation of shave. nay more coppy have say that even he wee willie winkie would rise in time to the ownership of a box of shiny knife a silver soap box and a silver handle sputter brush a wee willie winkie call it. decidedly there be no one except his father who could give or take away good conduct badge at pleasure half so wise strong and valiant a coppy with the afghan and egyptian medal on his breast. why then should coppy be guilty of the unmanly weakness of kiss vehemently kiss a big girl miss allardyce to wit. in the course of a morning ride wee willie winkie have see coppy so do and like the gentleman he be have promptly wheel round and canter back to his groom l the groom should also see. 
under ordinary circumstance he would have speak to his father but he felt instinctively that this be a matter on which coppy ought first to be consult. 
coppy shout wee willie winkie rein up outside that subaltern s bungalow early one morning i want to see you coppy. 
come in young un return coppy who be at early breakfast in the midst of his dog. what mischief have you be get into now. 
wee willie winkie have do nothing notoriously bad for three day and so stand on a pinnacle of virtue. 
i ve be do nothing bad say he curl himself into a long chair with a studious affectation of the colonel s languor after a hot parade. he bury his freckle nose in a tea cup and with eye star roundly over the rim ask. i say coppy be it pwoper to kiss big girl. 
by jove. you re begin early. who do you want to kiss. 
no one. my muvver s always kiss me if i don t stop her. if it isn t pwoper how be you kiss major allardyce s big girl last morning by ve canal. 
coppy s brow wrinkle. he and miss allardyce have with great craft manage to keep their engagement secret for a fortnight. there be urgent and imperative reason why major allardyce should not know how matter stand for at least another month and this small marplot have discover a great deal too much. 
i saw you say wee willie winkie calmly. but ve sais didn t see. i say _hut jao. 
oh you have that much sense you young rip groan poor coppy half amuse and half angry. and how many people may you have tell about it. 
only me myself. you didn t tell when i twied to wide ve buffalo ven my pony be lame. and i fight you wouldn t like. 
winkie say coppy enthusiastically shake the small hand you re the best of good fellow. look here you can t understand all these thing. one of these day hang it how can i make you see it. i m go to marry miss allardyce and then she ll be mr. coppy a you say. if your young mind be so scandalise at the idea of kiss big girl go and tell your father. 
what will happen. say wee willie winkie who firmly believe that his father be omnipotent. 
i shall get into trouble say coppy play his trump card with an appeal look at the holder of the ace. 
ven i win t say wee willie winkie briefly. but my faver say it s un man ly to be always kiss and i didn t fink you d do vat coppy. 
i m not always kiss old chap. it s only now and then and when you re big you ll do it too. your father mean it s not good for little boy. 
ah. say wee willie winkie now fully enlighten. it s like ve sputter brush. 
exactly say coppy gravely. 
but i don t fink i ll ever want to kiss big girl nor no one cept my muvver. and i must vat you know. 
there be a long pause break by wee willie winkie. 
be you fond of vi big girl coppy. 
awfully. say coppy. 
fond van you be of bell or ve butcha or me. 
it s in a different way say coppy. you see one of these day miss allardyce will belong to me but you ll grow up and command the regiment and all sort of thing. it s quite different you see. 
very well say wee willie winkie rise. if you re fond of ve big girl i win t tell any one. i must go now. 
coppy rise and escort his small guest to the door add you re the best of little fellow winkie. i tell you what. in thirty day from now you can tell if you like tell any one you like. 
thus the secret of the brandis allardyce engagement be dependent on a little child s word. coppy who know wee willie winkie s idea of truth be at ease for he felt that he would not break promise. wee willie winkie betray a special and unusual interest in miss allardyce and slowly revolve round that embarrass young lady be use to regard her gravely with unwinking eye. he be try to discover why coppy should have kiss her. she be not half so nice a his own mother. on the other hand she be coppy s property and would in time belong to him. therefore it behove him to treat her with a much respect a coppy s big sword or shiny pistol. 
the idea that he share a great secret in common with coppy keep wee willie winkie unusually virtuous for three week. then the old adam break out and he make what he call a camp fire at the bottom of the garden. how could he have foresee that the fly spark would have light the colonel s little hay rick and consume a week s store for the horse. sudden and swift be the punishment deprivation of the good conduct badge and most sorrowful of all two day confinement to barrack the house and veranda couple with the withdrawal of the light of his father s countenance. 
he take the sentence like the man he strive to be draw himself up with a quiver under lip salute and once clear of the room run to weep bitterly in his nursery call by him my quarter. coppy come in the afternoon and attempt to console the culprit. 
i m under awwest say wee willie winkie mournfully and i didn t ought to speak to you. 
very early the next morning he climb on to the roof of the house that be not forbid and behold miss allardyce go for a ride. 
where be you go. cry wee willie winkie. 
across the river she answer and trot forward. 
now the cantonment in which the th lay be bound on the north by a river dry in the winter. from his early year wee willie winkie have be forbid to go across the river and have note that even coppy the almost almighty coppy have never set foot beyond it. wee willie winkie have once be read to out of a big blue book the history of the princess and the goblin a most wonderful tale of a land where the goblin be always war with the child of men until they be defeat by one curdie. ever since that date it seem to him that the bare black and purple hill across the river be inhabit by goblin and in truth every one have say that there live the bad men. even in his own house the low half of the window be cover with green paper on account of the bad men who might if allow clear view fire into peaceful draw room and comfortable bedroom. certainly beyond the river which be the end of all the earth live the bad men. and here be major allardyce s big girl coppy s property prepare to venture into their border. what would coppy say if anything happen to her. if the goblin run off with her a they do with curdie s princess. she must at all hazard be turn back. 
the house be still. wee willie winkie reflect for a moment on the very terrible wrath of his father. and then break his arrest. it be a crime unspeakable. the low sun throw his shadow very large and very black on the trim garden path a he go down to the stable and order his pony. it seem to him in the hush of the dawn that all the big world have be bid to stand still and look at wee willie winkie guilty of mutiny. the drowsy sais give him his mount and since the one great sin make all others insignificant wee willie winkie say that he be go to ride over to coppy sahib and go out at a foot pace step on the soft mould of the flower border. 
the devastate track of the pony s foot be the last misdeed that cut him off from all sympathy of humanity. he turn into the road lean forward and ride a fast a the pony could put foot to the grind in the direction of the river. 
but the lively of twelve two pony can do little against the long canter of a waler. miss allardyce be far ahead have pass through the crop beyond the police post when all the guard be asleep and her mount be scatter the pebble of the river bed a wee willie winkie leave the cantonment and british india behind him. bow forward and still flog wee willie winkie shoot into afghan territory and could just see miss allardyce a black speck flicker across the stony plain. the reason of her wander be simple enough. coppy in a tone of too hastily assume authority have tell her overnight that she must not ride out by the river. and she have go to prove her own spirit and teach coppy a lesson. 
almost at the foot of the inhospitable hill wee willie winkie saw the waler blunder and come down heavily. miss allardyce struggle clear but her ankle have be severely twist and she could not stand. have fully show her spirit she weep and be surprise by the apparition of a white wide eye child in khaki on a nearly spend pony. 
be you badly badly hurt. shout wee willie winkie a soon a he be within range. you didn t ought to be here. 
i don t know say miss allardyce ruefully ignore the reproof. good gracious child what be you do here. 
you say you be go acwoss ve wiver pant wee willie winkie throw himself off his pony. and nobody not even coppy must go acwoss ve wiver and i come after you ever so hard but you wouldn t stop and now you ve hurt yourself and coppy will be angwy wiv me and i ve bwoken my awwest. i ve bwoken my awwest. 
the future colonel of the th sit down and sob. in spite of the pain in her ankle the girl be move. 
have you ride all the way from cantonment little man. what for. 
you belong to coppy. coppy tell me so. wail wee willie winkie disconsolately. i saw him kiss you and he say he be fond of you van bell or ve butcha or me. and so i come. you must get up and come back. you didn t ought to be here. vi be a bad place and i ve bwoken my awwest. 
i can t move winkie say miss allardyce with a groan. i ve hurt my foot. what shall i do. 
she show a readiness to weep anew which steady wee willie winkie who have be bring up to believe that tear be the depth of unmanliness. still when one be a great a sinner a wee willie winkie even a man may be permit to break down. 
winkie say miss allardyce when you ve rest a little ride back and tell them to send out something to carry me back in. it hurt fearfully. 
the child sit still for a little time and miss allardyce close her eye. the pain be nearly make her faint. she be rouse by wee willie winkie tie up the rein on his pony s neck and set it free with a vicious cut of his whip that make it whicker. the little animal head towards the cantonment. 
oh winkie what be you do. 
hush. say wee willie winkie. vere s a man come one of ve bad men. i must stay wiv you. my faver say a man must always look after a girl. jack will go home and ven vey ll come and look for u. vat s why i let him go. 
not one man but two or three have appear from behind the rock of the hill and the heart of wee willie winkie sink within him for just in this manner be the goblin wont to steal out and vex curdie s soul. thus have they play in curdie s garden he have see the picture and thus have they frighten the princess s nurse. he hear them talk to each other and recognise with joy the bastard pushto that he have pick up from one of his father s groom lately dismiss. people who speak that tongue could not be the bad men. they be only native after all. 
they come up to the boulder on which miss allardyce s horse have blunder. 
then rise from the rock wee willie winkie child of the dominant race age six and three quarter and say briefly and emphatically jao. the pony have cross the river bed. 
the men laugh and laughter from native be the one thing wee willie winkie could not tolerate. he ask them what they want and why they do not depart. other men with most evil face and crook stock gun creep out of the shadow of the hill till soon wee willie winkie be face to face with an audience some twenty strong. miss allardyce scream. 
who be you. say one of the men. 
i be the colonel sahib s son and my order be that you go at once. you black men be frighten the miss sahib. 
one of you must run into cantonment and take the news that the miss sahib ha hurt herself and that the colonel s son be here with her. 
put our foot into the trap. be the laugh reply. 
hear this boy s speech. 
say that i send you i the colonel s son. they will give you money. 
what be the use of this talk. take up the child and the girl and we can at least ask for the ransom. ours be the village on the height say a voice in the background. 
these be the bad men bad than goblin and it need all wee willie winkie s train to prevent him from burst into tear. but he felt that to cry before a native except only his mother s ayah_ would be an infamy great than any mutiny. moreover he a future colonel of the th have that grim regiment at his back. 
be you go to carry u away. say wee willie winkie very blanch and uncomfortable. 
yes my little sahib bahadur_ say the tall of the men and eat you afterwards. 
that be child s talk say wee willie winkie. men do not eat men. 
a yell of laughter interrupt him but he go on firmly and if you do carry u away i tell you that all my regiment will come up in a day and kill you all without leave one. who will take my message to the colonel sahib. 
speech in any vernacular and wee willie winkie have a colloquial acquaintance with three be easy to the boy who could not yet manage his r s and th s aright. 
another man join the conference cry. o foolish men. what this babe say be true. he be the heart s heart of those white troop. for the sake of peace let them go both for if he be take the regiment will break loose and gut the valley. our village be in the valley and we shall not escape. that regiment be devil. they break khoda yar s breastbone with kick when he try to take the rifle. and if we touch this child they will fire and rape and plunder for a month till nothing remain. good to send a man back to take the message and get a reward. i say that this child be their god and that they will spare none of u nor our woman if we harm him. 
it be din mahommed the dismiss groom of the colonel who make the diversion and an angry and heat discussion follow. wee willie winkie stand over miss allardyce wait the upshot. surely his wegiment his own wegiment would not desert him if they know of his extremity. 
* * * * *. 
the riderless pony bring the news to the th though there have be consternation in the colonel s household for an hour before. the little beast come in through the parade grind in front of the main barrack where the men be settle down to play spoil five till the afternoon. devlin the colour sergeant of e company glance at the empty saddle and tumble through the barrack room kick. up each room corporal a he pass. up ye beggar. there s something happen to the colonel s son he shout. 
he couldn t fall off. s elp me e couldn t fall off blubber a drummer boy. go an hunt acrost the river. he s over there if he s anywhere an maybe those pathan have get im. for the love o gawd don t look for im in the nullah. let s go over the river. 
there s sense in mott yet say devlin. e company double out to the river sharp. 
so e company in it shirt sleeve mainly double for the dear life and in the rear toil the perspire sergeant adjure it to double yet fast. the cantonment be alive with the men of the th hunt for wee willie winkie and the colonel finally overtake e company far too exhaust to swear struggle in the pebble of the river bed. 
up the hill under which wee willie winkie s bad men be discuss the wisdom of carry off the child and the girl a look out fire two shot. 
what have i say. shout din mahommed. there be the warn. the pulton be out already and be come across the plain. get away. let u not be see with the boy. 
the men wait for an instant and then a another shoot be fire withdraw into the hill silently a they have appear. 
the wegiment be come say wee willie winkie confidently to miss allardyce and it s all wight. don t cwy. 
he need the advice himself for ten minute late when his father come up he be weep bitterly with his head in miss allardyce s lap. 
and the men of the th carry him home with shout and rejoicing. and coppy who have ride a horse into a lather meet him and to his intense disgust kiss him openly in the presence of the men. 
but there be balm for his dignity. his father assure him that not only would the break of arrest be condone but that the good conduct badge would be restore a soon a his mother could sew it on his blouse sleeve. miss allardyce have tell the colonel a story that make him proud of his son. 
she belong to you coppy say wee willie winkie indicate miss allardyce with a grimy forefinger. i know she didn t ought to go acwoss ve wiver and i know ve wegiment would come to me if i send jack home. 
you re a hero winkie say coppy a pukka hero. 
i don t know what vat mean say wee willie winkie but you mustn t call me winkie any no more. i m percival will be will am. 
and in this manner do wee willie winkie enter into his manhood. 
a matter of fact. 
and if ye doubt the tale i tell steer through the south pacific swell. go where the branch coral hive unending strife of endless life where league about the wildered boat the rainbow jelly fill and float. and lilt where the laver linger the starfish trip on all her finger. where neath his myriad spine ashock the sea egg ripple down the rock. an orange wonder dimly guess from darkness where the cuttle rest moor o er the dark deep that hide the blind white sea snake and his bride who drowse nose the long lose ship let down through darkness to their lip. the palm. 
once a priest always a priest. once a mason always a mason. but once a journalist always and for ever a journalist. 
there be three of u all newspaper men the only passenger on a little tramp steamer that run where her owner tell her to go. she have once be in the bilbao iron ore business have be lend to the spanish government for service at manilla. and be end her day in the cape town coolie trade with occasional trip to madagascar and even a far a england. we find her go to southampton in ballast and ship in her because the fare be nominal. there be keller of an american paper on his way back to the state from palace execution in madagascar. there be a burly half dutchman call zuyland who own and edit a paper up country near johannesburg. and there be myself who have solemnly put away all journalism vow to forget that i have ever know the difference between an imprint and a stereo advertisement. 
ten minute after keller speak to me a the rathmines clear cape town i have forget the aloofness i desire to feign and be in heat discussion on the immorality of expand telegram beyond a certain fix point. then zuyland come out of his cabin and we be all at home instantly because we be men of the same profession need no introduction. we annex the boat formally break open the passenger bath room door on the manilla line the don do not wash clean out the orange peel and cigar end at the bottom of the bath hire a lascar to shave u throughout the voyage and then ask each other s name. 
three ordinary men would have quarrel through sheer boredom before they reach southampton. we by virtue of our craft be anything but ordinary men. a large percentage of the tale of the world the thirty nine that cannot be tell to lady and the one that can be common property come of a common stock. we tell them all a a matter of form with all their local and specific variant which be surprise. then come in the interval of steady card play more personal history of adventure and thing see and suffer. panic among white folk when the blind terror run from man to man on the brooklyn bridge and the people crush each other to death they know not why. fire and face that open and shut their mouth horribly at red hot window frame. wreck in frost and snow report from the sleet sheathe rescue tug at the risk of frost bite. long ride after diamond thief. skirmish on the veldt and in municipal committee with the boer. glimpse of lazy tangle cape politics and the mule rule in the transvaal. card tale horse tale woman tale by the score and the half hundred. till the first mate who have see more than u all put together but lack word to clothe his tale with sit open mouth far into the dawn. 
when the tale be do we pick up card till a curious hand or a chance remark make one or other of u say that remind me of a man who or a business which and the anecdote would continue while the rathmines kick her way northward through the warm water. 
in the morning of one specially warm night we three be sit immediately in front of the wheel house where an old swedish boatswain whom we call frithiof the dane be at the wheel pretend that he could not hear our story. once or twice frithiof spin the spoke curiously and keller lift his head from a long chair to ask what be it. can t you get any steerage way on her. 
there be a feel in the water say frithiof that i cannot understand. i think that we run downhill or somethings. she steer bad this morning. 
nobody seem to know the law that govern the pulse of the big water. sometimes even a landsman can tell that the solid ocean be atilt and that the ship be work herself up a long unseen slope. and sometimes the captain say when neither full steam nor fair wind justify the length of a day s run that the ship be sag downhill. but how these up and down come about ha not yet be settle authoritatively. 
no it be a follow sea say frithiof. and with a follow sea you shall not get good steerage way. 
the sea be a smooth a a duck pond except for a regular oily swell. a i look over the side to see where it might be follow u from the sun rise in a perfectly clear sky and strike the water with it light so sharply that it seem a though the sea should clang like a burnish gong. the wake of the screw and the little white streak cut by the log line hang over the stern be the only mark on the water a far a eye could reach. 
keller roll out of his chair and go aft to get a pineapple from the ripen stock that be hang inside the after awning. 
frithiof the log line ha get tire of swim. it s come home he drawl. 
what. say frithiof his voice jump several octave. 
come home keller repeat lean over the stern. i run to his side and saw the log line which till then have be draw tense over the stern rail slacken loop and come up off the port quarter. frithiof call up the speak tube to the bridge and the bridge answer yes nine knot. then frithiof speak again and the answer be what do you want of the skipper. and frithiof bellow call him up. 
by this time zuyland keller and myself have catch something of frithiof s excitement for any emotion on shipboard be most contagious. the captain run out of his cabin speak to frithiof look at the log line jump on the bridge and in a minute we felt the steamer swing round a frithiof turn her. 
go back to cape town. say keller. 
frithiof do not answer but tear away at the wheel. then he beckon u three to help and we hold the wheel down till the rathmines answer it and we find ourselves look into the white of our own wake with the still oily sea tear past our bow though we be not go more than half steam ahead. 
the captain stretch out his arm from the bridge and shout. a minute late i would have give a great deal to have shout too for one half of the sea seem to shoulder itself above the other half and come on in the shape of a hill. there be neither crest comb nor curl over to it. nothing but black water with little wave chase each other about the flank. i saw it stream past and on a level with the rathmines bow plate before the steamer heave up her bulk to rise and i argue that this would be the last of all earthly voyage for me. then we lift for ever and ever and ever till i hear keller say in my ear the bowel of the deep good lord. and the rathmines stand poise her screw race and drum on the slope of a hollow that stretch downwards for a good half mile. 
we go down that hollow nose under for the most part and the air smelt wet and muddy like that of an empty aquarium. there be a second hill to climb. i saw that much. but the water come aboard and earn me aft till it jam me against the wheel house door and before i could catch breath or clear my eye again we be roll to and fro in tear water with the scupper pour like eaves in a thunderstorm. 
there be three wave say keller. and the stokehold s flood. 
the fireman be on deck wait apparently to be drown. the engineer come and drag them below and the crew gasp begin to work the clumsy board of trade pump. that show nothing serious and when i understand that the rathmines be really on the water and not beneath it i ask what have happen. 
the captain say it be a blow up under the sea a volcano say keller. 
it hasn t warm anything i say. i be feel bitterly cold and cold be almost unknown in those water. i go below to change my clothe and when i come up everything be wipe out in cling white fog. 
be there go to be any more surprise. say keller to the captain. 
i don t know. be thankful you be alive gentleman. that s a tidal wave throw up by a volcano. probably the bottom of the sea ha be lift a few foot somewhere or other. i can t quite understand this cold spell. our sea thermometer say the surface water be  and it should be  at least. 
it s abominable say keller shiver. but hadn t you good attend to the fog horn. it seem to me that i hear something. 
hear. good heaven. say the captain from the bridge i should think you do. he pull the string of our fog horn which be a weak one. it sputter and choke because the stoke hold be full of water and the fire be half drown and at last give out a moan. it be answer from the fog by one of the most appal steam siren i have ever hear. keller turn a white a i do for the fog the cold fog be upon u and any man may be forgive for fear a death he cannot see. 
give her steam there. say the captain to the engine room. steam for the whistle if we have to go dead slow. 
we bellow again and the damp drip off the awning on to the deck a we listen for the reply. it seem to be astern this time but much near than before. 
the pembroke castle on u. say keller. and then viciously well thank god we shall sink her too. 
it s a side wheel steamer i whisper. can t you hear the paddle. 
this time we whistle and roar till the steam give out and the answer nearly deafen u. there be a sound of frantic thresh in the water apparently about fifty yard away and something shoot past in the whiten that look a though it be gray and red. 
the pembroke castle bottom up say keller who be a journalist always seek for explanation. that s the colour of a castle liner. we re in for a big thing. 
the sea be bewitch say frithiof from the wheel house. there be two steamer. 
another siren sound on our bow and the little steamer roll in the wash of something that have pass unseen. 
we re evidently in the middle of a fleet say keller quietly. if one doesn t run u down the other will. phew. what in creation be that. 
i sniff for there be a poisonous rank smell in the cold air a smell that i have smelt before. 
if i be on land i should say that it be an alligator. it smell like musk i answer. 
not ten thousand alligator could make that smell say zuyland. i have smelt them. 
bewitch. bewitch. say frithiof. the sea she be turn upside down and we be walk along the bottom. 
again the rathmines roll in the wash of some unseen ship and a silver gray wave break over the bow leave on the deck a sheet of sediment the gray broth that ha it place in the fathomless deep of the sea. a sprinkle of the wave fell on my face and it be so cold that it sting a boil water sting. the dead and most untouched deep water of the sea have be heave to the top by the submarine volcano the chill still water that kill all life and smell of desolation and emptiness. we do not need either the blind fog or that indescribable smell of musk to make u unhappy we be shiver with cold and wretchedness where we stand. 
the hot air on the cold water make this fog say the captain. it ought to clear in a little time. 
whistle oh. whistle and let s get out of it say keller. 
the captain whistle again and far and far astern the invisible twin steam siren answer u. their blast shriek grow loud till at last it seem to tear out of the fog just above our quarter and i cower while the rathmines plunge bow under on a double swell that cross. 
no more say frithiof it be not good any more. let u get away in the name of god. 
now if a torpedo boat with a city of paris siren go mad and break her mooring and hire a friend to help her it s just conceivable that we might be carry a we be now. otherwise this thing be. 
the last word die on keller s lip his eye begin to start from his head and his jaw fell. some six or seven foot above the port bulwark frame in fog and a utterly unsupported a the full moon hang a face. it be not human and it certainly be not animal for it do not belong to this earth a know to man. the mouth be open reveal a ridiculously tiny tongue a absurd a the tongue of an elephant. there be tense wrinkle of white skin at the angle of the draw lip white feeler like those of a barbel spring from the low jaw and there be no sign of teeth within the mouth. but the horror of the face lay in the eye for those be sightless white in socket a white a scrap bone and blind. yet for all this the face wrinkle a the mask of a lion be draw in assyrian sculpture be alive with rage and terror. one long white feeler touch our bulwark. then the face disappear with the swiftness of a blindworm pop into it burrow and the next thing that i remember be my own voice in my own ear say gravely to the mainmast but the air bladder ought to have be force out of it mouth you know. 
keller come up to me ashy white. he put his hand into his pocket take a cigar bite it drop it thrust his shake thumb into his mouth and mumble the giant gooseberry and the rain frog. gimme a light gimme a light. say gimme a light. a little bead of blood drop from his thumb joint. 
i respect the motive though the manifestation be absurd. stop you ll bite your thumb off i say and keller laugh brokenly a he pick up his cigar. only zuyland lean over the port bulwark seem self possess. he declare late that he be very sick. 
we ve see it he say turn round. that be it. 
what. say keller chew the unlighted cigar. 
a he speak the fog be blow into shred and we saw the sea gray with mud roll on every side of u and empty of all life. then in one spot it bubble and become like the pot of ointment that the bible speak of. from that wide ring trouble the thing come up a gray and red thing with a neck a thing that bellow and writhe in pain. frithiof draw in his breath and hold it till the red letter of the ship s name weave across his jersey straggle and open out a though they have be type badly set. then he say with a little cluck in his throat ah me. it be blind. hur illa. that thing be blind and a murmur of pity go through u all for we could see that the thing on the water be blind and in pain. something have gash and cut the great side cruelly and the blood be spurt out. the gray ooze of the undermost sea lay in the monstrous wrinkle of the back and pour away in sluice. the blind white head fling back and batter the wound and the body in it torment rise clear of the red and gray wave till we saw a pair of quiver shoulder streak with weed and rough with shell but a white in the clear space a the hairless maneless blind toothless head. afterwards come a dot on the horizon and the sound of a shrill scream and it be a though a shuttle shoot all across the sea in one breath and a second head and neck tear through the level drive a whisper wall of water to right and leave. the two thing meet the one untouched and the other in it death throe male and female we say the female come to the male. she circle round him bellow and lay her neck across the curve of his great turtle back and he disappear under water for an instant but fling up again grunt in agony while the blood run. once the entire head and neck shoot clear of the water and stiffen and i hear keller say a though he be watch a street accident give him air. for god s sake give him air. then the death struggle begin with cramp and twisting and jerking of the white bulk to and fro till our little steamer roll again and each gray wave coat her plate with the gray slime. the sun be clear there be no wind and we watch the whole crew stoker and all in wonder and pity but chiefly pity. the thing be so helpless and save for his mate so alone. no human eye should have behold him. it be monstrous and indecent to exhibit him there in trade water between atlas degree of latitude. he have be spew up mangle and die from his rest on the sea floor where he might have live till the judgment day and we saw the tide of his life go from him a an angry tide go out across rock in the teeth of a landward gale. his mate lay rock on the water a little distance off bellow continually and the smell of musk come dawn upon the ship make u cough. 
at last the battle for life end in a batter of colour sea. we saw the writhe neck fall like a flail the carcase turn sideways show the glint of a white belly and the inset of a gigantic hind leg or flipper. then all sink and sea boil over it while the mate swim round and round dart her head in every direction. though we might have fear that she would attack the steamer no power on earth could have draw any one of u from our place that hour. we watch hold our breath. the mate pause in her search. we could hear the wash beat along her side. rear her neck a high a she could reach blind and lonely in all that loneliness of the sea and send one desperate bellow boom across the swell a an oyster shell skip across a pond. then she make off to the westward the sun shin on the white head and the wake behind it till nothing be leave to see but a little pin point of silver on the horizon. we stand on our course again. and the rathmines_ coat with the sea sediment from bow to stern look like a ship make gray with terror. 
* * * * *. 
we must pool our note be the first coherent remark from keller. we re three train journalist we hold absolutely the big scoop on record. start fair. 
i object to this. nothing be gain by collaboration in journalism when all deal with the same fact so we go to work each accord to his own light. keller triple head his account talk about our gallant captain and wind up with an allusion to american enterprise in that it be a citizen of dayton ohio that have see the sea serpent. this sort of thing would have discredit the creation much more a mere sea tale but a a specimen of the picture write of a half civilise people it be very interest. zuyland take a heavy column and a half give approximate length and breadth and the whole list of the crew whom he have swear on oath to testify to his fact. there be nothing fantastic or flamboyant in zuyland. i write three quarter of a lead bourgeois column roughly speak and refrain from put any journalese into it for reason that have begin to appear to me. 
keller be insolent with joy. he be go to cable from southampton to the new york world_ mail his account to america on the same day paralyse london with his three column of loosely knit headline and generally efface the earth. you ll see how i work a big scoop when i get it he say. 
be this your first visit to england. i ask. 
yes say he. you don t seem to appreciate the beauty of our scoop. it s pyramidal the death of the sea serpent. good heaven alive man it s the big thing ever vouchsafe to a paper. 
curious to think that it will never appear in any paper isn t it. i say. 
zuyland be near me and he nod quickly. 
what do you mean. say keller. if you re enough of a britisher to throw this thing away i shan t. i think you be a newspaper man. 
i be. that s why i know. don t be an as keller. remember i m seven hundred year your senior and what your grandchild may learn five hundred year hence i learn from my grandfather about five hundred year ago. you win t do it because you can t. 
this conversation be hold in open sea where everything seem possible some hundred mile from southampton. we pass the needle light at dawn and the lift day show the stucco villa on the green and the awful orderliness of england line upon line wall upon wall solid stone dock and monolithic pier. we wait an hour in the custom shed and there be ample time for the effect to soak in. 
now keller you face the music. the havel go out to day. mail by her and i ll take you to the telegraph office i say. 
i hear keller gasp a the influence of the land close about him cow him a they say newmarket heath cow a young horse unused to open course. 
i want to retouch my stuff. suppose we wait till we get to london. he say. 
zuyland by the way have tear up his account and throw it overboard that morning early. his reason be my reason. 
in the train keller begin to revise his copy and every time that he look at the trim little field the red villa and the embankment of the line the blue pencil plunge remorselessly through the slip. he appear to have dredge the dictionary for adjective. i could think of none that he have not use. yet he be a perfectly sound poker player and never show more card than be sufficient to take the pool. 
aren t you go to leave him a single bellow. i ask sympathetically. remember everything go in the state from a trouser button to a double eagle. 
that s just the curse of it say keller below his breath. we ve play em for sucker so often that when it come to the golden truth i d like to try this on a london paper. you have first call there though. 
not in the least. i m not touch the thing in our paper. i shall be happy to leave em all to you. but surely you ll cable it home. 
no. not if i can make the scoop here and see the britisher sit up. 
you win t do it with three column of slushy headline believe me. they don t sit up a quickly a some people. 
i m begin to think that too. doe nothing make any difference in this country. he say look out of the window. how old be that farmhouse. 
new. it can t be more than two hundred year at the most. 
urn. field too. 
that hedge there must have be clip for about eighty year. 
labour cheap eh. 
pretty much. well i suppose you d like to try the times_ wouldn t you. 
no say keller look at winchester cathedral. might a well try to electrify a haystack. and to think that the world would take three column and ask for more with illustration too. it s sicken. 
but the time might i begin. 
keller fling his paper across the carriage and it open in it austere majesty of solid type open with the crackle of an encyclopdia. 
might. you might work your way through the bow plate of a cruiser. look at that first page. 
it strike you that way doe it. i say. then i d recommend you to try a light and frivolous journal. 
with a thing like this of mine of ours. it s sacred history. 
i show him a paper which i conceive would be after his own heart in that it be model on american line. 
that s homey he say but it s not the real thing. now i should like one of these fat old time column. probably there d be a bishop in the office though. 
when we reach london keller disappear in the direction of the strand. what his experience may have be i cannot tell but it seem that he invade the office of an even paper at. a. m. i tell him english editor be most idle at that hour. and mention my name a that of a witness to the truth of his story. 
i be nearly fire out he say furiously at lunch. a soon a i mention you the old man say that i be to tell you that they didn t want any more of your practical joke and that you know the hour to call if you have anything to sell and that they d see you condemn before they help to puff one of your infernal yarn in advance. say what record do you hold for truth in this country anyway. 
a beauty. you run up against it that s all. why don t you leave the english paper alone and cable to new york. everything go over there. 
can t you see that s just why. he repeat. 
i saw it a long time ago. you don t intend to cable then. 
yes i do he answer in the over emphatic voice of one who doe not know his own mind. 
that afternoon i walk him abroad and about over the street that run between the pavement like channel of groove and tongue lava over the bridge that be make of endure stone through subway floor and side with yard thick concrete between house that be never rebuild and by river step hew to the eye from the live rock. a black fog chase u into westminster abbey and stand there in the darkness i could hear the wing of the dead century circle round the head of litchfield a. keller journalist of dayton ohio u. s. a. whose mission it be to make the britisher sit up. 
he stumble gasp into the thick gloom and the roar of the traffic come to his bewilder ear. 
let s go to the telegraph office and cable i say. can t you hear the new york world cry for news of the great sea serpent blind white and smell of musk stricken to death by a submarine volcano and assist by his love wife to die in mid ocean a visualise by an american citizen the breezy newsy brainy newspaper man of dayton ohio. rah for the buckeye state. step lively. both gate. szz. boom. aah. keller be a princeton man and he seem to need encouragement. 
you ve get me on your own grind say he tug at his overcoat pocket. he pull out his copy with the cable form for he have write out his telegram and put them all into my hand groan i pas. if i hadn t come to your curse country if i d send it off at southampton if i ever get you west of the alleghannies if. 
never mind keller. it isn t your fault. it s the fault of your country. if you have be seven hundred year old you d have do what i be go to do. 
what be you go to do. 
tell it a a lie. 
fiction. this with the full blood disgust of a journalist for the illegitimate branch of the profession. 
you can call it that if you like. i shall call it a lie. 
and a lie it ha become. for truth be a naked lady and if by accident she be draw up from the bottom of the sea it behove a gentleman either to give her a print petticoat or to turn his face to the wall and vow that he do not see. 
mowgli s brother. 
now chil the kite bring home the night that mang the bat set free the herd be shut in byre and hut for loose till dawn be we. this be the hour of pride and power talon and tush and claw. oh hear the call. good hunt all that keep the jungle law. 
night song in the jungle. 
it be seven o clock of a very warm even in the seeonee hill when father wolf wake up from his day s rest scratch himself yawn and spread out his paw one after the other to get rid of the sleepy feel in their tip. mother wolf lay with her big gray nose drop across her four tumble squeal cub and the moon shine into the mouth of the cave where they all live. augrh. say father wolf it be time to hunt again. and he be go to spring down hill when a little shadow with a bushy tail cross the threshold and whine. good luck go with you o chief of the wolf. and good luck and strong white teeth go with the noble child that they may never forget the hungry in this world. 
it be the jackal tabaqui the dish licker and the wolf of india despise tabaqui because he run about make mischief and tell tale and eat rag and piece of leather from the village rubbish heap. but they be afraid of him too because tabaqui more than any one else in the jungle be apt to go mad and then he forget that he be ever afraid of any one and run through the forest bite everything in his way. even the tiger run and hide when little tabaqui go mad for madness be the most disgraceful thing that can overtake a wild creature. we call it hydrophobia but they call it dewanee the madness and run. 
enter then and look say father wolf stiffly. but there be no food here. 
for a wolf no say tabaqui. but for so mean a person a myself a dry bone be a good feast. who be we the gidur log [the jackal people] to pick and choose. he scuttle to the back of the cave where he find the bone of a buck with some meat on it and sit crack the end merrily. 
all thank for this good meal he say lick his lip. how beautiful be the noble child. how large be their eye. and so young too. indeed indeed i might have remember that the child of king be men from the begin. 
now tabaqui know a well a any one else that there be nothing so unlucky a to compliment child to their face. and it please him to see mother and father wolf look uncomfortable. 
tabaqui sit still rejoice in the mischief that he have make and then he say spitefully. 
shere khan the big one ha shift his hunt ground. he will hunt among these hill for the next moon so he ha tell me. 
shere khan be the tiger who live near the waingunga river twenty mile away. 
he ha no right. father wolf begin angrily by the law of the jungle he ha no right to change his quarter without due warn. he will frighten every head of game within ten mile and i i have to kill for two these day. 
his mother do not call him lungri [the lame one] for nothing say mother wolf quietly. he ha be lame in one foot from his birth. that be why he ha only kill cattle. now the villager of the waingunga be angry with him and he ha come here to make our villager angry. they will scour the jungle for him when he be far away and we and our child must run when the grass be set alight. indeed we be very grateful to shere khan. 
shall i tell him of your gratitude. say tabaqui. 
out. snap father wolf. out and hunt with thy master. thou hast do harm enough for one night. 
i go say tabaqui quietly. ye can hear shere khan below in the thicket. i might have save myself the message. 
father wolf listen and below in the valley that run down to a little river he hear the dry angry snarly singsong whine of a tiger who ha catch nothing and doe not care if all the jungle know it. 
the fool. say father wolf. to begin a night s work with that noise. doe he think that our buck be like his fat waingunga bullock. 
h sh. it be neither bullock nor buck he hunt to night say mother wolf. it be man. the whine have change to a sort of hum purr that seem to come from every quarter of the compass. it be the noise that bewilder woodcutter and gipsy sleep in the open and make them run sometimes into the very mouth of the tiger. 
man. say father wolf show all his white teeth. faugh. be there not enough beetle and frog in the tank that he must eat man and on our grind too. 
the law of the jungle which never order anything without a reason forbid every beast to eat man except when he be kill to show his child how to kill and then he must hunt outside the hunt ground of his pack or tribe. the real reason for this be that man kill mean sooner or late the arrival of white men on elephant with gun and hundred of brown men with gong and rocket and torch. then everybody in the jungle suffer. the reason the beast give among themselves be that man be the weak and most defenceless of all live thing and it be unsportsmanlike to touch him. they say too and it be true that man eater become mangy and lose their teeth. 
the purr grow loud and end in the full throated aaarh. of the tiger s charge. 
then there be a howl an untigerish howl from shere khan. he ha miss say mother wolf. what be it. 
father wolf run out a few pace and hear shere khan mutter and mumble savagely a he tumble about in the scrub. 
the fool ha have no more sense than to jump at a woodcutter camp fire and ha burn his foot say father wolf with a grunt. tabaqui be with him. 
something be come up hill say mother wolf twitch one ear. get ready. 
the bush rustle a little in the thicket and father wolf drop with his haunch under him ready for his leap. then if you have be watch you would have see the most wonderful thing in the world the wolf check in mid spring. he make his bind before he saw what it be he be jump at and then he try to stop himself. the result be that he shoot up straight into the air for four or five foot land almost where he leave grind. 
man. he snap. a man s cub. look. 
directly in front of him hold on by a low branch stand a naked brown baby who could just walk a soft and a dimple a little atom a ever come to a wolf s cave at night. he look up into father wolf s face and laugh. 
be that a man s cub. say mother wolf. i have never see one. bring it here. 
a wolf accustom to move his own cub can if necessary mouth an egg without break it and though father wolf s jaw close right on the child s back not a tooth even scratch the skin a he lay it down among the cub. 
how little. how naked and how bold. say mother wolf softly. the baby be push his way between the cub to get close to the warm hide. ahai. he be take his meal with the others. and so this be a man s cub. now be there ever a wolf that could boast of a man s cub among her child. 
i have hear now and again of such a thing but never in our pack or in my time say father wolf. he be altogether without hair and i could kill him with a touch of my foot. but see he look up and be not afraid. 
the moonlight be block out of the mouth of the cave for shere khan s great square head and shoulder be thrust into the entrance. tabaqui behind him be squeak. my lord my lord it go in here. 
shere khan doe u great honour say father wolf but his eye be very angry. what doe shere khan need. 
my quarry. a man s cub go this way say shere khan. it parent have run off. give it to me. 
shere khan have jump at a woodcutter camp fire a father wolf have say and be furious from the pain of his burn foot. but father wolf know that the mouth of the cave be too narrow for a tiger to come in by. even where he be shere khan s shoulder and fore paw be cramp for want of room a a man s would be if he try to fight in a barrel. 
the wolf be a free people say father wolf. they take order from the head of the pack and not from any strip cattle dealer. the man s cub be ours to kill if we choose. 
ye choose and ye do not choose. what talk be this of choose. by the bull that i kill be i to stand nose into your dog s den for my fair due. it be i shere khan who speak. 
the tiger s roar fill the cave with thunder. mother wolf shake herself clear of the cub and spring forward her eye like two green moon in the darkness face the blaze eye of shere khan. 
and it be i raksha [the demon] who answer. the man s cub be mine lungri mine to me. he shall not be kill. he shall live to run with the pack and to hunt with the pack. and in the end look you hunter of little naked cub frog eater fish killer he shall hunt thee. now get hence or by the sambhur that i kill. i eat no starve cattle. back thou go to thy mother burn beast of the jungle lame than ever thou earnest into the world. go. 
father wolf look on amaze. he have almost forget the day when he have win mother wolf in fair fight from five other wolf when she run in the pack and be not call the demon for compliment s sake. shere khan might have face father wolf but he could not stand up against mother wolf for he know that where he be she have all the advantage of the grind and would fight to the death. so he back out of the cave mouth growl and when he be clear he shout. 
each dog bark in his own yard. we will see what the pack will say to this foster of man cub. the cub be mine and to my teeth he will come in the end o bush tail thief. 
mother wolf throw herself down pant among the cub and father wolf say to her gravely. 
shere khan speak this much truth. the cub must be show to the pack. wilt thou still keep him mother. 
keep him. she gasp. he come naked by night alone and very hungry. yet he be not afraid. look he ha push one of my babe to one side already. and that lame butch would have kill him and would have run off to the waingunga while the villager here hunt through all our lair in revenge. keep him. assuredly i will keep him. lie still little frog. o thou mowgli for mowgli the frog i will call thee the time will come when thou wilt hunt shere khan a he ha hunt thee. but what will our pack say. say father wolf. the law of the jungle lay down very clearly that any wolf may when he marry withdraw from the pack he belong to. but a soon a his cub be old enough to stand on their foot he must bring them to the pack council which be generally hold once a month at full moon in order that the other wolf may identify them. after that inspection the cub be free to run where they please and until they have kill their first buck no excuse be accept if a grow wolf of the pack kill one of them. the punishment be death where the murderer can be find. and if you think for a minute you will see that this must be so. father wolf wait till his cub could run a little and then on the night of the pack meet take them and mowgli and mother wolf to the council rock a hilltop cover with stone and boulder where a hundred wolf could hide. akela the great gray lone wolf who lead all the pack by strength and cunning lay out at full length on his rock and below him sit forty or more wolf of every size and colour from badger colour veteran who could handle a buck alone to young black three year old who think they could. the lone wolf have lead them for a year now. he have fall twice into a wolf trap in his youth and once he have be beat and leave for dead. so he know the manner and custom of men. there be very little talk at the rock. the cub tumble over each other in the centre of the circle where their mother and father sit and now and again a senior wolf would go quietly up to a cub look at him carefully and return to his place on noiseless foot. sometimes a mother would push her cub far out into the moonlight to be sure that he have not be overlook. akela from his rock would cry. ye know the law ye know the law. look well o wolf. and the anxious mother would take up the call. look look well o wolf. 
at last and mother wolf neck bristle lift a the time come father wolf push mowgli the frog a they call him into the centre where he sit laugh and play with some pebble that glisten in the moonlight. 
akela never raise his head from his paw but go on with the monotonous cry. look well. a muffle roar come up from behind the rock the voice of shere khan cry. the cub be mine. give him to me. what have the free people to do with a man s cub. akela never even twitch his ear. all he say be. look well o wolf. what have the free people to do with the order of any save the free people. look well. 
there be a chorus of deep growl and a young wolf in his fourth year fling back shere khan s question to akela. what have the free people to do with a man s cub. now the law of the jungle lay down that if there be any dispute a to the right of a cub to be accept by the pack he must be speak for by at least two member of the pack who be not his father and mother. 
who speak for this cub. say akela. among the free people who speak. there be no answer and mother wolf get ready for what she know would be her last fight if thing come to fight. 
then the only other creature who be allow at the pack council baloo the sleepy brown bear who teach the wolf cub the law of the jungle. old baloo who can come and go where he plea because he eat only nut and root and honey rise up on his hind quarter and grunt. 
the man s cub the man s cub. he say. i speak for the man s cub. there be no harm in a man s cub. i have no gift of word but i speak the truth. let him run with the pack and be enter with the others. i myself will teach him. 
we need yet another say akela. baloo ha speak and he be our teacher for the young cub. who speak beside baloo. 
a black shadow drop down into the circle. it be bagheera the black panther inky black all over but with the panther marking show up in certain light like the pattern of water silk. everybody know bagheera and nobody care to cross his path. for he be a cunning a tabaqui a bold a the wild buffalo and a reckless a the wound elephant. but he have a voice a soft a wild honey drip from a tree and a skin soft than down. 
o akela and ye the free people he purr i have no right in your assembly. but the law of the jungle say that if there be a doubt which be not a kill matter in regard to a new cub the life of that cub may be buy at a price. and the law doe not say who may or may not pay that price. be i right. 
good. good. say the young wolf who be always hungry. listen to bagheera. the cub can be buy for a price. it be the law. 
know that i have no right to speak here i ask your leave. 
speak then cry twenty voice. 
to kill a naked cub be shame. besides he may make good sport for you when he be grow. baloo ha speak in his behalf. now to baloo s word i will add one bull and a fat one newly kill not half a mile from here if ye will accept the man s cub accord to the law. be it difficult. 
there be a clamour of score of voice say. what matter. he will die in the winter rain. he will scorch in the sun. what harm can a naked frog do u. let him run with the pack. where be the bull bagheera. let him be accept. and then come akela s deep bay cry. look well look well o wolf. 
mowgli be still deeply interest in the pebble and he do not notice when the wolf come and look at him one by one. at last they all go down the hill for the dead bull and only akela bagheera baloo and mowgli s own wolf be leave. shere khan roar still in the night for he be very angry that mowgli have not be hand over to him. 
ay roar well say bagheera under his whisker. for the time come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune or i know nothing of man. 
it be well do say akela. men and their cub be very wise. he may be a help in time. 
truly a help in time of need. for none can hope to lead the pack for ever say bagheera. 
akela say nothing. he be think of the time that come to every leader of every pack when his strength go from him and he get feeble and feeble till at last he be kill by the wolf and a new leader come up to be kill in his turn. 
take him away he say to father wolf and train him a befit one of the free people. 
and that be how mowgli be enter into the seeonee wolf pack for the price of a bull and on baloo s good word. 
* * * * *. 
now you must be content to skip ten or eleven whole year and only guess at all the wonderful life mowgli lead among the wolf because if it be write out it would fill ever so many book. he grow up with the cub though they of course be grow wolf almost before he be a child and father wolf teach him his business and the mean of thing in the jungle till every rustle in the grass every breath of the warm night air every note of the owl above his head every scratch of a bat s claw a it roost for a while in a tree and every splash of every little fish jump in a pool mean just a much to him a the work of his office mean to a business man. when he be not learn he sit out in the sun and sleep and eat and go to sleep again. when he felt dirty or hot he swim in the forest pool. and when he want honey. baloo tell him that honey and nut be just a pleasant to eat a raw meat. he climb up for it and that bagheera show him how to do. bagheera would lie out on a branch and call come along little brother and at first mowgli would cling like the sloth but afterward he would fling himself through the branch almost a boldly a the gray ape. he take his place at the council rock too when the pack meet and there he discover that if he star hard at any wolf the wolf would be force to drop his eye and so he use to stare for fun. at other time he would pick the long thorn out of the pad of his friend for wolf suffer terribly from thorn and bur in their coat. he would go down the hillside into the cultivate land by night and look very curiously at the villager in their hut but he have a mistrust of men because bagheera show him a square box with a drop gate so cunningly hide in the jungle that he nearly walk into it and tell him that it be a trap. he love good than anything else to go with bagheera into the dark warm heart of the forest to sleep all through the drowsy day and at night see how bagheera do his kill. bagheera kill right and leave a he felt hungry and so do mowgli with one exception. a soon a he be old enough to understand thing bagheera tell him that he must never touch cattle because he have be buy into the pack at the price of a bull s life. all the jungle be thine say bagheera and thou canst kill everything that thou art strong enough to kill. but for the sake of the bull that buy thee thou must never kill or eat any cattle young or old. that be the law of the jungle. mowgli obey faithfully. 
and he grow and grow strong a a boy must grow who doe not know that he be learn any lesson and who ha nothing in the world to think of except thing to eat. 
mother wolf tell him once or twice that shere khan be not a creature to be trust and that some day he must kill shere khan. but though a young wolf would have remember that advice every hour mowgli forget it because he be only a boy though he would have call himself a wolf if he have be able to speak in any human tongue. 
shere khan be always cross his path in the jungle for a akela grow old and feeble the lame tiger have come to be great friend with the young wolf of the pack who follow him for scrap a thing akela would never have allow if he have dare to push his authority to the proper bound. then shere khan would flat them and wonder that such fine young hunter be content to be lead by a die wolf and a man s cub. they tell me shere khan would say that at council ye dare not look him between the eye. and the young wolf would growl and bristle. 
bagheera who have eye and ear everywhere know something of this and once or twice he tell mowgli in so many word that shere khan would kill him some day. and mowgli would laugh and answer. i have the pack and i have thee. and baloo though he be so lazy might strike a blow or two for my sake. why should i be afraid. 
it be one very warm day that a new notion come to bagheera bear of something that he have hear. perhaps sahi the porcupine have tell him. but he say to mowgli when they be deep in the jungle a the boy lay with his head on bagheera s beautiful black skin. little brother how often have i tell thee that shere khan be thy enemy. 
a many time a there be nut on that palm say mowgli who naturally could not count. what of it. i be sleepy bagheera and shere khan be all long tail and loud talk like mor the peacock. 
but this be no time for sleep. baloo know it. i know it. the pack know it. and even the foolish foolish deer know. tabaqui ha tell thee too. 
ho. ho. say mowgli. tabaqui come to me not long ago with some rude talk that i be a naked man s cub and not fit to dig pig nut. but i catch tabaqui by the tail and swing him twice against a palm tree to teach him good manner. 
that be foolishness. for though tabaqui be a mischief maker he would have tell thee of something that concern thee closely. open those eye little brother. shere khan dare not kill thee in the jungle. but remember akela be very old and soon the day come when he cannot kill his buck and then he will be leader no more. many of the wolf that look thee over when thou wast bring to the council first be old too and the young wolf believe a shere khan ha teach them that a man cub ha no place with the pack. in a little time thou wilt be a man. 
and what be a man that he should not run with his brother. say mowgli. i be bear in the jungle. i have obey the law of the jungle and there be no wolf of ours from whose paw i have not pull a thorn. surely they be my brother. 
bagheera stretch himself at full length and half shut his eye. little brother say he feel under my jaw. 
mowgli put up his strong brown hand and just under bagheera s silky chin where the giant roll muscle be all hide by the glossy hair he come upon a little bald spot. 
there be no one in the jungle that know that i bagheera carry that mark the mark of the collar. and yet little brother i be bear among men and it be among men that my mother die in the cage of the king s palace at oodeypore. it be because of this that i pay the price for thee at the council when thou wast a little naked cub. yes i too be bear among men. i have never see the jungle. they feed me behind bar from an iron pan till one night i felt that i be bagheera the panther and no man s plaything and i break the silly lock with one blow of my paw and come away. and because i have learn the way of men i become more terrible in the jungle than shere khan. be it not so. 
yes say mowgli. all the jungle fear bagheera all except mowgli. 
oh thou art a man s cub say the black panther very tenderly. and even a i return to my jungle so thou must go back to men at last to the men who be thy brother if thou art not kill in the council. 
but why but why should any wish to kill me. say mowgli. 
look at me say bagheera. and mowgli look at him steadily between the eye. the big panther turn his head away in half a minute. 
that be why he say shift his paw on the leaf. not even i can look thee between the eye and i be bear among men and i love thee little brother. the others they hate thee because their eye cannot meet thine. because thou art wise. because thou hast pull out thorn from their foot because thou art a man. 
i do not know these thing say mowgli sullenly. and he frown under his heavy black eyebrow. 
what be the law of the jungle. strike first and then give tongue. by thy very carelessness they know that thou art a man. but be wise. it be in my heart that when akela miss his next kill and at each hunt it cost him more to pin the buck the pack will turn against him and against thee. they will hold a jungle council at the rock and then and then i have it. say bagheera leap up. go thou down quickly to the men s hut in the valley and take some of the red flower which they grow there so that when the time come thou mayest have even a strong friend than i or baloo or those of the pack that love thee. get the red flower. 
by red flower bagheera mean fire only no creature in the jungle will call fire by it proper name. every beast life in deadly fear of it and invent a hundred way of describe it. 
the red flower. say mowgli. that grow outside their hut in the twilight. i will get some. 
there speak the man s cub say bagheera proudly. remember that it grow in little pot. get one swiftly and keep it by thee for time of need. 
good. say mowgli. i go. but art thou sure o my bagheera he slip his arm round the splendid neck and look deep into the big eye art thou sure that all this be shere khan s do. 
by the break lock that free me i be sure little brother. 
then by the bull that buy me i will pay shere khan full tale for this and it may be a little over say mowgli. and he bound away. 
that be a man. that be all a man say bagheera to himself lie down again. oh shere khan never be a black hunt than that frog hunt of thine ten year ago. 
mowgli be far and far through the forest run hard and his heart be hot in him. he come to the cave a the even mist rise and draw breath and look down the valley. the cub be out but mother wolf at the back of the cave know by his breathe that something be trouble her frog. 
what be it son. she say. 
some bat s chatter of shere khan he call back. i hunt among the plough field to night. and he plunge downward through the bush to the stream at the bottom of the valley. there he check for he hear the yell of the pack hunt hear the bellow of a hunt sambhur and the snort a the buck turn at bay. then there be wicked bitter howl from the young wolf. akela. akela. let the lone wolf show his strength. room for the leader of the pack. spring akela. 
the lone wolf must have spring and miss his hold for mowgli hear the snap of his teeth and then a yelp a the sambhur knock him over with his fore foot. 
he do not wait for anything more but dash on. and the yell grow faint behind him a he run into the croplands where the villager live. 
bagheera speak truth he pant a he nestle down in some cattle fodder by the window of a hut. to morrow be one day both for akela and for me. 
then he press his face close to the window and watch the fire on the hearth. he saw the husbandman s wife get up and fee it in the night with black lump. and when the morning come and the mist be all white and cold he saw the man s child pick up a wicker pot plaster inside with earth fill it with lump of red hot charcoal put it under his blanket and go out to tend the cow in the byre. 
be that all. say mowgli. if a cub can do it there be nothing to fear. so he stride round the corner and meet the boy take the pot from his hand and disappear into the mist while the boy howl with fear. 
they be very like me say mowgli blow into the pot a he have see the woman do. this thing will die if i do not give it thing to eat. and he drop twig and dry bark on the red stuff. half way up the hill he meet bagheera with the morning dew shin like moonstone on his coat. 
akela ha miss say the panther. they would have kill him last night but they need thee also. they be look for thee on the hill. 
i be among the plough land. i be ready. see. mowgli hold up the fire pot. 
good. now i have see men thrust a dry branch into that stuff and presently the red flower blossom at the end of it. art thou not afraid. 
no. why should i fear. i remember now if it be not a dream how before i be a wolf i lay beside the red flower and it be warm and pleasant. 
all that day mowgli sit in the cave tend his fire pot and dip dry branch into it to see how they look. he find a branch that satisfy him and in the even when tabaqui come to the cave and tell him rudely enough that he be want at the council rock he laugh till tabaqui run away. then mowgli go to the council still laugh. 
akela the lone wolf lay by the side of his rock a a sign that the leadership of the pack be open and shere khan with his follow of scrap feed wolf walk to and fro openly be flatter. bagheera lay close to mowgli and the fire pot be between mowgli s knee. when they be all gather together shere khan begin to speak a thing he would never have dare to do when akela be in his prime. 
he ha no right whisper bagheera. say so. he be a dog s son. he will be frighten. 
mowgli spring to his foot. free people he cry doe shere khan lead the pack. what ha a tiger to do with our leadership. 
see that the leadership be yet open and be ask to speak shere khan begin. 
by whom. say mowgli. be we all jackal to fawn on this cattle butch. the leadership of the pack be with the pack alone. 
there be yell of silence thou man s cub. let him speak. he ha keep our law. and at last the senior of the pack thunder. let the dead wolf speak. when a leader of the pack ha miss his kill he be call the dead wolf a long a he life which be not long. 
akela raise his old head wearily. 
free people and ye too jackal of shere khan for twelve season i have lead ye to and from the kill and in all that time not one ha be trap or maim. now i have miss my kill. ye know how that plot be make. ye know how ye bring me up to an untried buck to make my weakness know. it be cleverly do. your right be to kill me here on the council rock now. therefore i ask who come to make an end of the lone wolf. for it be my right by the law of the jungle that ye come one by one. 
there be a long hush for no single wolf care to fight akela to the death. then shere khan roar. bah. what have we to do with this toothless fool. he be doom to die. it be the man cub who ha live too long. free people he be my meat from the first. give him to me. i be weary of this man wolf folly. he ha trouble the jungle for ten season. give me the man cub or i will hunt here always and not give you one bone. he be a man a man s child and from the marrow of my bone i hate him. 
then more than half the pack yell. a man. a man. 
what ha a man to do with u. let him go to his own place. 
and turn all the people of the village against u. clamour shere khan. no. give him to me. he be a man and none of u can look him between the eye. 
akela lift his head again and say. he ha eat our food. he ha sleep with u. he ha drive game for u. he ha break no word of the law of the jungle. 
also i pay for him with a bull when he be accept. the worth of a bull be little but bagheera s honour be something that he will perhaps fight for say bagheera in his gentle voice. 
a bull pay ten year ago. the pack snarl. what do we care for bone ten year old. 
or for a pledge. say bagheera his white teeth bar under his lip. well be ye call the free people. 
no man s cub can run with the people of the jungle howl shere khan. give him to me. 
he be our brother in all but blood akela go on. and ye would kill him here. in truth i have live too long. some of ye be eater of cattle and of others i have hear that under shere khan s teach ye go by dark night and snatch child from the villager s door step therefore i know ye to be coward and it be to coward i speak. it be certain that i must die and my life be of no worth or i would offer that in the man cub s place. but for the sake of the honour of the pack a little matter that by be without a leader ye have forget i promise that if ye let the man cub go to his own place i will not when my time come to die bare one tooth against ye. i will die without fight. that will at least save the pack three life. more i cannot do. but if ye will i can save ye the shame that come of kill a brother against whom there be no fault a brother speak for and buy into the pack accord to the law of the jungle. 
he be a man a man a man. snarl the pack. and most of the wolf begin to gather round shere khan whose tail be begin to switch. 
now the business be in thy hand say bagheera to mowgli. we can do no more except fight. 
mowgli stand upright the fire pot in his hand. then he stretch out his arm and yawn in the face of the council. but he be furious with rage and sorrow for wolf like the wolf have never tell him how they hat him. listen you. he cry. there be no need for this dog s jabber. ye have tell me so often to night that i be a man. and indeed i would have be a wolf with you to my life s end. that i feel your word be true. so i do not call ye my brother any more but sag [dogs] a a man should. what ye will do and what ye will not do be not yours to say. that matter be with me. and that we may see the matter more plainly i the man have bring here a little of the red flower which ye dog fear. 
he fling the fire pot on the grind and some of the red coal light a tuft of dry moss that flare up a all the council draw back in terror before the leap flame. 
mowgli thrust his dead branch into the fire till the twig light and crackle and whirl it above his head among the cower wolf. 
thou art the master say bagheera in an undertone. save akela from the death. he be ever thy friend. 
akela the grim old wolf who have never ask for mercy in his life give one piteous look at mowgli a the boy stand all naked his long black hair toss over his shoulder in the light of the blaze branch that make the shadow jump and quiver. 
good. say mowgli star round slowly. i see that ye be dog. i go from you to my own people if they be ray own people. the jungle be shut to me and i must forget your talk and your companionship. but i will be more merciful than ye be. because i be all but your brother in blood i promise that when i be a man among men i will not betray ye to men a ye have betray me. he kick the fire with his foot and the spark fly up. there shall be no war between any of u in the pack. but here be a debt to pay before i go. he stride forward to where shere khan sit blink stupidly at the flame and catch him by the tuft on his chin. bagheera follow in case of accident. up dog. mowgli cry. up when a man speak or i will set that coat ablaze. 
shere khan s ear lay flat back on his head and he shut his eye for the blaze branch be very near. 
this cattle killer say he would kill me in the council because he have not kill me when i be a cub. thus and thus then do we beat dog when we be men. stir a whisker lungri and i ram the red flower down thy gullet. he beat shere khan over the head with the branch and the tiger whimper and whine in an agony of fear. 
pah. sing jungle cat go now. but remember when next i come to the council rock a a man should come it will be with shere khan s hide on my head. for the rest akela go free to live a he plea. ye will not kill him because that be not my will. nor do i think that ye will sit here any long loll out your tongue a though ye be somebody instead of dog whom i drive out thus. go. the fire be burn furiously at the end of the branch and mowgli strike right and leave round the circle and the wolf run howl with the spark burn their fur. at last there be only akela bagheera and perhaps ten wolf that have take mowgli s part. then something begin to hurt mowgli inside him a he have never be hurt in his life before and he catch his breath and sob and the tear run down his face. 
what be it. what be it. he say. i do not wish to leave the jungle and i do not know what this be. be i die bagheera. 
no little brother. that be only tear such a men use say bagheera. now i know thou art a man and a man s cub no long. the jungle be shut indeed to thee henceforward. let them fall mowgli. they be only tear. so mowgli sit and cry a though his heart would break. and he have never cry in all his life before. 
now he say i will go to men. but first i must say farewell to my mother. and he go to the cave where she live with father wolf and he cry on her coat while the four cub howl miserably. 
ye will not forget me. say mowgli. 
never while we can follow a trail say the cub. come to the foot of the hill when thou art a man and we will talk to thee. and we will come into the crop land to play with thee by night. 
come soon. say father wolf. oh wise little frog come again soon. for we be old thy mother and i. 
come soon say mother wolf little naked son of mine. for listen child of man i love thee more than ever i love my cub. 
i will surely come say mowgli. and when i come it will be to lay out shere khan s hide upon the council rock. do not forget me. tell them in the jungle never to forget me. 
the dawn be begin to break when mowgli go down the hillside alone to meet those mysterious thing that be call men. 
the lose legion. 
when the indian mutiny break out and a little time before the siege of delhi a regiment of native irregular horse be station at peshawur on the frontier of india. that regiment catch what john lawrence call at the time the prevalent mania and would have throw in it lot with the mutineer have it be allow to do so. the chance never come for a the regiment sweep off down south it be head up by a remnant of an english corp into the hill of afghanistan and there the newly conquer tribesman turn against it a wolf turn against buck. it be hunt for the sake of it arm and accoutrement from hill to hill from ravine to ravine up and down the dry bed of river and round the shoulder of bluff till it disappear a water sink in the sand this officerless rebel regiment. the only trace leave of it existence to day be a nominal roll draw up in neat round hand and countersign by an officer who call himself adjutant late irregular cavalry. the paper be yellow with year and dirt but on the back of it you can still read a pencil note by john lawrence to this effect. see that the two native officer who remain loyal be not deprive of their estate. j. l. of six hundred and fifty sabre only two stand strain and john lawrence in the midst of all the agony of the first month of the mutiny find time to think about their merit. 
that be more than thirty year ago and the tribesman across the afghan border who help to annihilate the regiment be now old men. sometimes a graybeard speak of his share in the massacre. they come he will say across the border very proud call upon u to rise and kill the english and go down to the sack of delhi. but we who have just be conquer by the same english know that they be over bold and that the government could account easily for those down country dog. this hindu stani regiment therefore we treat with fair word and keep stand in one place till the redcoat come after them very hot and angry. then this regiment run forward a little more into our hill to avoid the wrath of the english and we lay upon their flank watch from the side of the hill till we be well assure that their path be lose behind them. then we come down for we desire their clothe and their bridle and their rifle and their boot more especially their boot. that be a great kill do slowly. here the old man will rub his nose and shake his long snaky lock and lick his beard lip and grin till the yellow tooth stump show. yes we kill them because we need their gear and we know that their life have be forfeit to god on account of their sin the sin of treachery to the salt which they have eat. they ride up and down the valley stumble and rock in their saddle and howl for mercy. we drive them slowly like cattle till they be all assemble in one place the flat wide valley of sheor kt. many have die from want of water but there still be many leave and they could not make any stand. we go among them pull them down with our hand two at a time and our boy kill them who be new to the sword. my share of the plunder be such and such so many gun and so many saddle. the gun be good in those day. now we steal the government rifle and despise smooth barrel. yes beyond doubt we wipe that regiment from off the face of the earth and even the memory of the deed be now die. but men say. 
at this point the tale would stop abruptly and it be impossible to find out what men say across the border. the afghan be always a secretive race and vastly prefer do something wicked to say anything at all. they would be quiet and well behave for month till one night without word or warn they would rush a police post cut the throat of a constable or two dash through a village carry away three or four woman and withdraw in the red glare of burn thatch drive the cattle and goat before them to their own desolate hill. the indian government would become almost tearful on these occasion. first it would say please be good and we ll forgive you. the tribe concern in the late depredation would collectively put it thumb to it nose and answer rudely. then the government would say. hadn t you good pay up a little money for those few corps you leave behind you the other night. here the tribe would temporise and lie and bully and some of the young men merely to show contempt of authority would raid another police post and fire into some frontier mud fort and if lucky kill a real english officer. then the government would say. observe. if you really persist in this line of conduct you will be hurt. if the tribe know exactly what be go on in india it would apologise or be rude accord a it learn whether the government be busy with other thing or able to devote it full attention to their performance. some of the tribe know to one corpse how far to go. others become excite lose their head and tell the government to come on. with sorrow and tear and one eye on the british taxpayer at home who insist on regard these exercise a brutal war of annexation the government would prepare an expensive little field brigade and some gun and send all up into the hill to chase the wicked tribe out of the valley where the corn grow into the hill top where there be nothing to eat. the tribe would turn out in full strength and enjoy the campaign for they know that their woman would never be touch that their wound would be nurse not mutilate and that a soon a each man s bag of corn be spend they could surrender and palaver with the english general a though they have be a real enemy. afterwards year afterwards they would pay the blood money driblet by driblet to the government and tell their child how they have slay the redcoat by thousand. the only drawback to this kind of picnic war be the weakness of the redcoat for solemnly blow up with powder their fortify tower and keep. this the tribe always consider mean. 
chief among the leader of the small tribe the little clan who know to a penny the expense of move white troop against them be a priest bandit chief whom we will call the gulla kutta mullah. his enthusiasm for border murder a an art be almost dignify. he would cut down a mail runner from pure wantonness or bombard a mud fort with rifle fire when he know that our men need to sleep. in his leisure moment he would go on circuit among his neighbour and try to incite other tribe to devilry. also he keep a kind of hotel for fellow outlaw in his own village which lay in a valley call bersund. any respectable murderer on that section of the frontier be sure to lie up at bersund for it be reckon an exceedingly safe place. the sole entry to it run through a narrow gorge which could be convert into a death trap in five minute. it be surround by high hill reckon inaccessible to all save bear mountaineer and here the gulla kutta mullah live in great state the head of a colony of mud and stone hut and in each mud hut hang some portion of a red uniform and the plunder of dead men. the government particularly wish for his capture and once invite him formally to come out and be hang on account of a few of the murder in which he have take a direct part. he reply. 
i be only twenty mile a the crow fly from your border. come and fetch me. 
some day we will come say the government and hang you will be. 
the gulla kutta mullah let the matter from his mind. he know that the patience of the government be a long a a summer day. but he do not realise that it arm be a long a a winter night. month afterwards when there be peace on the border and all india be quiet the indian government turn in it sleep and remember the gulla kutta mullah at bersund with his thirteen outlaw. the movement against him of one single regiment which the telegram would have translate a war would have be highly impolitic. this be a time for silence and speed and above all absence of bloodshed. 
you must know that all along the north west frontier of india there be spread a force of some thirty thousand foot and horse whose duty it be quietly and unostentatiously to shepherd the tribe in front of them. they move up and down and down and up from one desolate little post to another. they be ready to take the field at ten minute notice. they be always half in and half out of a difficulty somewhere along the monotonous line. their life be a hard a their own muscle and the paper never say anything about them. it be from this force that the government pick it men. 
one night at a station where the mount night patrol fire a they challenge and the wheat roll in great blue green wave under our cold northern moon the officer be play billiards in the mud wall club house when order come to them that they be to go on parade at once for a night drill. they grumble and go to turn out their men a hundred english troop let u say two hundred goorkhas and about a hundred cavalry of the fine native cavalry in the world. 
when they be on the parade grind it be explain to them in whisper that they must set off at once across the hill to bersund. the english troop be to post themselves round the hill at the side of the valley. the goorkhas would command the gorge and the death trap and the cavalry would fetch a long march round and get to the back of the circle of hill whence if there be any difficulty they could charge down on the mullah s men. but order be very strict that there should be no fight and no noise. they be to return in the morning with every round of ammunition intact and the mullah and the thirteen outlaw bind in their midst. if they be successful no one would know or care anything about their work. but failure mean probably a small border war in which the gulla kutta mullah would pose a a popular leader against a big bully power instead of a common border murderer. 
then there be silence break only by the click of the compass needle and snap of watch case a the head of column compare bearing and make appointment for the rendezvous. five minute late the parade grind be empty. the green coat of the goorkhas and the overcoat of the english troop have fade into the darkness and the cavalry be canter away in the face of a blind drizzle. 
what the goorkhas and the english do will be see late on. the heavy work lay with the horse for they have to go far and pick their way clear of habitation. many of the trooper be native of that part of the world ready and anxious to fight against their kin and some of the officer have make private and unofficial excursion into those hill before. they cross the border find a dry river bed canter up that wait through a stony gorge risk cross a low hill under cover of the darkness skirt another hill leave their hoof mark deep in some plough grind felt their way along another watercourse run over the neck of a spur pray that no one would hear their horse grunt and so work on in the rain and the darkness till they have leave bersund and it crater of hill a little behind them and to the leave and it be time to swing round. the ascent command the back of bersund be steep and they halt to draw breath in a broad level valley below the height. that be to say the men rein up but the horse blow a they be refuse to halt. there be unchristian language the bad for be deliver in a whisper and you hear the saddle squeak in the darkness a the horse plunge. 
the subaltern at the rear of one troop turn in his saddle and say very softly. 
carter what the bless heaven be you do at the rear. bring your men up man. 
there be no answer till a trooper reply. 
carter sahib be forward not there. there be nothing behind u. 
there be say the subaltern. the squadron s walk on it s own tail. 
then the major in command move down to the rear swear softly and ask for the blood of lieutenant halley the subaltern who have just speak. 
look after your rearguard say the major. some of your infernal thief have get lose. they re at the head of the squadron and you re a several kind of idiot. 
shall i tell off my men sir. say the subaltern sulkily for he be feel wet and cold. 
tell em off. say the major. whip em off by gad. you re squander them all over the place. there s a troop behind you now. 
so i be think say the subaltern calmly. i have all my men here sir. good speak to carter. 
carter sahib send salaam and want to know why the regiment be stop say a trooper to lieutenant halley. 
where under heaven be carter. say the major. 
forward with his troop be the answer. 
be we walk in a ring then or be we the centre of a bless brigade. say the major. 
by this time there be silence all along the column. the horse be still. but through the drive of the fine rain men could hear the foot of many horse move over stony grind. 
we re be stalk say lieutenant halley. 
they ve no horse here. besides they d have fire before this say the major. it s it s villager pony. 
then our horse would have neigh and spoil the attack long ago. they must have be near u for half an hour say the subaltern. 
queer that we can t smell the horse say the major damp his finger and rub it on his nose a he sniff up wind. 
well it s a bad start say the subaltern shake the wet from his overcoat. what shall we do sir. 
get on say the major. we shall catch it to night. 
the column move forward very gingerly for a few pace. then there be an oath a shower of blue spark a shoe hoof crash on small stone and a man roll over with a jangle of accoutrement that would have wake the dead. 
now we ve go and do it say lieutenant halley. all the hillside awake and all the hillside to climb in the face of musketry fire. this come of try to do night hawk work. 
the tremble trooper pick himself up and try to explain that his horse have fall over one of the little cairn that be build of loose stone on the spot where a man ha be murder. there be no need for reason. the major s big australian charger blunder next and the column come to a halt in what seem to be a very graveyard of little cairn all about two foot high. the man[oe]uvres of the squadron be not report. men say that it felt like mount quadrille without train and without the music. but at last the horse break rank and choose their own way walk clear of the cairn till every man of the squadron re form and draw rein a few yard up the slope of the hill. then accord to lieutenant halley there be another scene very like the one which ha be describe. the major and carter insist that all the men have not join rank and that there be more of them in the rear click and blunder among the dead men s cairn. lieutenant halley tell off his own trooper again and resign himself to wait. late on he tell me. 
i didn t much know and i didn t much care what be go on. the row of that trooper fall ought to have scar half the country and i would take my oath that we be be stalk by a full regiment in the rear and they be make row enough to rouse all afghanistan. i sit tight but nothing happen. 
the mysterious part of the night s work be the silence on the hillside. everybody know that the gulla kutta mullah have his outpost hut on the reverse side of the hill and everybody expect by the time that the major have swear himself into a state of quiet that the watchman there would open fire. when nothing occur they say that the gust of the rain have deaden the sound of the horse and thank providence. at last the major satisfy himself. a. that he have leave no one behind among the cairn and. b. that he be not be take in the rear by a large and powerful body of cavalry. the men s temper be thoroughly spoil the horse be lather and unquiet and one and all pray for the daylight. 
they set themselves to climb up the hill each man lead his mount carefully. before they have cover the low slope or the breastplate have begin to tighten a thunderstorm come up behind roll across the low hill and drown any noise le than that of cannon. the first flash of the lightning show the bare rib of the ascent the hill crest stand steely blue against the black sky the little fall line of the rain and a few yard to their leave flank an afghan watch tower two storied build of stone and enter by a ladder from the upper story. the ladder be up and a man with a rifle be lean from the window. the darkness and the thunder roll down in an instant and when the lull follow a voice from the watch tower cry who go there. 
the cavalry be very quiet but each man grip his carbine and stand beside his horse. again the voice call who go there. and in a loud key o brother give the alarm. now every man in the cavalry would have die in his long boot sooner than have ask for quarter. but it be a fact that the answer to the second call be a long wail of marf karo. marf karo. which mean have mercy. have mercy. it come from the climb regiment. 
the cavalry stand dumbfoundered till the big trooper have time to whisper one to another. mir khan be that thy voice. abdullah didst thou call. lieutenant halley stand beside his charger and wait. so long a no fire be go on he be content. another flash of lightning show the horse with heave flank and nod head the men white eye ball glare beside them and the stone watch tower to the leave. this time there be no head at the window and the rude iron clamp shutter that could turn a rifle bullet be close. 
go on men say the major. get up to the top at any rate. the squadron toil forward the horse wag their tail and the men pull at the bridle the stone roll down the hillside and the spark fly. lieutenant halley declare that he never hear a squadron make so much noise in his life. they scramble up he say a though each horse have eight leg and a spare horse to follow him. even then there be no sound from the watch tower and the men stop exhaust on the ridge that overlook the pit of darkness in which the village of bersund lay. girth be loose curb chain shift and saddle adjust and the men drop down among the stone. whatever might happen now they have the upper grind of any attack. 
the thunder cease and with it the rain and the soft thick darkness of a winter night before the dawn cover them all. except for the sound of fall water among the ravine below everything be still. they hear the shutter of the watch tower below them throw back with a clang and the voice of the watcher call. oh hafiz ullah. 
the echo take up the call la la la. and an answer come from the watch tower hide round the curve of the hill what be it shahbaz khan. 
shahbaz khan reply in the high pitch voice of the mountaineer. hast thou see. 
the answer come back. yes. god deliver u from all evil spirit. 
there be a pause and then. hafiz ullah i be alone. come to me. 
shahbaz khan i be alone also. but i dare not leave my post. 
that be a lie. thou art afraid. 
a long pause follow and then. i be afraid. be silent. they be below u still. pray to god and sleep. 
the trooper listen and wonder for they could not understand what save earth and stone could lie below the watch tower. 
shahbaz khan begin to call again. they be below u. i can see them. for the pity of god come over to me hafiz ullah. my father slew ten of them. come over. 
hafiz ullah answer in a very loud voice mine be guiltless. hear ye men of the night neither my father nor my blood have any part in that sin. bear thou thy own punishment shahbaz khan. 
oh some one ought to stop those two chap crow away like cock there say lieutenant halley shiver under his rock. 
he have hardly turn round to expose a new side of him to the rain before a beard long lock evil smell afghan rush up the hill and tumble into his arm. halley sit upon him and thrust a much of a sword hilt a could be spar down the man s gullet. if you cry out i kill you he say cheerfully. 
the man be beyond any expression of terror. he lay and quake grunt. when halley take the sword hilt from between his teeth he be still inarticulate but cling to halley s arm feel it from elbow to wrist. 
the rissala. the dead rissala. he gasp. it be down there. 
no. the rissala the very much alive rissala. it be up here say halley unshipping his water bridle and fasten the man s hand. why be you in the tower so foolish a to let u pas. 
the valley be full of the dead say the afghan. it be good to fall into the hand of the english than the hand of the dead. they march to and fro below there. i saw them in the lightning. 
he recover his composure after a little and whisper because halley s pistol be at his stomach say. what be this. there be no war between u now and the mullah will kill me for not see you pas. 
rest easy say halley. we be come to kill the mullah if god please. his teeth have grow too long. no harm will come to thee unless the daylight show thee a a face which be desire by the gallows for crime do. but what of the dead regiment. 
i only kill within my own border say the man immensely relieve. the dead regiment be below. the men must have pass through it on their journey four hundred dead on horse stumble among their own graf among the little heap dead men all whom we slew. 
whew. say halley. that account for my curse carter and the major curse me. four hundred sabre eh. no wonder we think there be a few extra men in the troop. kurruk shah he whisper to a grizzle native officer that lay within a few foot of him hast thou hear anything of a dead rissala in these hill. 
assuredly say kurruk shah with a grim chuckle. otherwise why do i who have serve the queen for seven and twenty year and kill many hill dog shout aloud for quarter when the lightning reveal u to the watch tower. when i be a young man i saw the kill in the valley of sheor kot there at our foot and i know the tale that grow up therefrom. but how can the ghost of unbeliever prevail against u who be of the faith. strap that dog s hand a little tight sahib. an afghan be like an eel. 
but a dead rissala say halley jerk his captive s wrist. that be foolish talk kurruk shah. the dead be dead. hold still sag. the afghan wriggle. 
the dead be dead and for that reason they walk at night. what need to talk. we be men. we have our eye and ear. thou canst both see and hear them down the hillside say kurruk shah composedly. 
halley star and listen long and intently. the valley be full of stifle noise a every valley must be at night. but whether he saw or hear more than be natural halley alone know and he doe not choose to speak on the subject. 
at last and just before the dawn a green rocket shoot up from the far side of the valley of bersund at the head of the gorge to show that the goorkhas be in position. a red light from the infantry at leave and right answer it and the cavalry burn a white flare. afghan in winter be late sleeper and it be not till full day that the gulla kutta mullah s men begin to straggle from their hut rub their eye. they saw men in green and red and brown uniform lean on their arm neatly arrange all round the crater of the village of bersund in a cordon that not even a wolf could have break. they rub their eye the more when a pink face young man who be not even in the army but represent the political department trip down the hillside with two orderly rap at the door of the gulla kutta mullah s house and tell him quietly to step out and be tie up for safe transport. that same young man pass on through the hut tap here one cateran and there another lightly with his cane. and a each be point out so he be tie up star hopelessly at the crown height around where the english soldier look down with incurious eye. only the mullah try to carry it off with curse and high word till a soldier who be tie his hand say. 
none o your lip. why didn t you come out when you be order instead o keepin u awake all night. you re no good than my own barrack sweeper you white eaded old polyanthus. kim up. 
half an hour late the troop have go away with the mullah and his thirteen friend. the daze villager be look ruefully at a pile of break musket and snap sword and wonder how in the world they have come so to miscalculate the forbearance of the indian government. 
it be a very neat little affair neatly carry out and the men concern be unofficially thank for their service. 
yet it seem to me that much credit be also due to another regiment whose name do not appear in the brigade order and whose very existence be in danger of be forget. 
namgay doola. 
there come to the beach a poor exile of erin the dew on his wet robe hang heavy and chill. ere the steamer that bring him have pass out of hearin he be alderman mike inthrojuicing a bill. american song. 
once upon a time there be a king who live on the road to thibet very many mile in the himalaya. his kingdom be eleven thousand foot above the sea and exactly four mile square. but most of the mile stand on end owe to the nature of the country. his revenue be rather le than four hundred pound yearly and they be expend in the maintenance of one elephant and a stand army of five men. he be tributary to the indian government who allow him certain sum for keep a section of the himalaya thibet road in repair. he further increase his revenue by sell timber to the railway company. for he would cut the great deodar tree in his one forest and they fell thunder into the sutlej river and be sweep down to the plain three hundred mile away and become railway tie. now and again this king whose name doe not matter would mount a ringstraked horse and ride score of mile to simla town to confer with the lieutenant governor on matter of state or to assure the viceroy that his sword be at the service of the queen empress. then the viceroy would cause a ruffle of drum to be sound and the ringstraked horse and the cavalry of the state two men in tatter and the herald who bore the silver stick before the king would trot back to their own place which lay between the tail of a heaven climb glacier and a dark birch forest. 
now from such a king always remember that he possess one veritable elephant and could count his descent for twelve hundred year i expect when it be my fate to wander through his dominion no more than mere license to live. 
the night have close in rain and roll cloud blot out the light of the village in the valley. forty mile away untouched by cloud or storm the white shoulder of donga pa the mountain of the council of the god uphold the even star. the monkey sing sorrowfully to each other a they hunt for dry roost in the fern wreathe tree and the last puff of the day wind bring from the unseen village the scent of damp wood smoke hot cake drip undergrowth and rot pine cone. that be the true smell of the himalaya and if once it creep into the blood of a man that man will at the last forget all else return to the hill to die. the cloud close and the smell go away and there remain nothing in all the world except chill white mist and the boom of the sutlej river race through the valley below. a fat tail sheep who do not want to die bleat piteously at my tent door. he be scuffle with the prime minister and the director general of public education and he be a royal gift to me and my camp servant. i express my thank suitably and ask if i might have audience of the king. the prime minister readjust his turban which have fall off in the struggle and assure me that the king would be very please to see me. therefore i despatch two bottle a a foretaste and when the sheep have enter upon another incarnation go to the king s palace through the wet. he have send his army to escort me but the army stay to talk with my cook. soldier be very much alike all the world over. 
the palace be a four room and whitewash mud and timber house the fine in all the hill for a day s journey. the king be dress in a purple velvet jacket white muslin trouser and a saffron yellow turban of price. he give me audience in a little carpet room open off the palace courtyard which be occupy by the elephant of state. the great beast be sheet and anchor from trunk to tail and the curve of his back stand out grandly against the mist. 
the prime minister and the director general of public education be present to introduce me but all the court have be dismiss l the two bottle aforesaid should corrupt their moral. the king cast a wreath of heavy scent flower round my neck a i bow and inquire how my honour presence have the felicity to be. i say that through see his auspicious countenance the mist of the night have turn into sunshine and that by reason of his beneficent sheep his good deed would be remember by the god. he say that since i have set my magnificent foot in his kingdom the crop would probably yield seventy per cent. more than the average. i say that the fame of the king have reach to the four corner of the earth and that the nation gnash their teeth when they hear daily of the glory of his realm and the wisdom of his moon like prime minister and lotus like director general of public education. 
then we sit down on clean white cushion and i be at the king s right hand. three minute late he be tell me that the state of the maize crop be something disgraceful and that the railway company would not pay him enough for his timber. the talk shift to and fro with the bottle and we discuss very many stately thing and the king become confidential on the subject of government generally. most of all he dwell on the shortcoming of one of his subject who from all i could gather have be paralyse the executive. 
in the old day say the king i could have order the elephant yonder to trample him to death. now i must e en send him seventy mile across the hill to be try and his keep would be upon the state. the elephant eat everything. 
what be the man s crime rajah sahib. say i. 
firstly he be an outlander and no man of mine own people. secondly since of my favour i give him land upon his first come he refuse to pay revenue. be i not the lord of the earth above and below entitle by right and custom to one eighth of the crop. yet this devil establish himself refuse to pay a single tax. and he bring a poisonous spawn of babe. 
cast him into jail i say. 
sahib the king answer shift a little on the cushion once and only once in these forty year sickness come upon me so that i be not able to go abroad. in that hour i make a vow to my god that i would never again cut man or woman from the light of the sun and the air of god. for i perceive the nature of the punishment. how can i break my vow. be it only the lop of a hand or a foot i should not delay. but even that be impossible now that the english have rule. one or another of my people he look obliquely at the director general of public education would at once write a letter to the viceroy and perhaps i should be deprive of my ruffle of drum. 
he unscrew the mouthpiece of his silver water pipe fit a plain amber mouthpiece and pass his pipe to me. not content with refuse revenue he continue this outlander refuse also the begar. this be the corve or force labour on the road. and stir my people up to the like treason. yet he be when he will an expert log snatcher. there be none good or bold among my people to clear a block of the river when the log stick fast. 
but he worship strange god say the prime minister deferentially. 
for that i have no concern say the king who be a tolerant a akbar in matter of belief. to each man his own god and the fire or mother earth for u all at last. it be the rebellion that offend me. 
the king ha an army i suggest. ha not the king burn the man s house and leave him naked to the night dew. 
nay a hut be a hut and it hold the life of a man. but once i send my army against him when his excuse become wearisome. of their head he brake three across the top with a stick. the other two men run away. also the gun would not shoot. 
i have see the equipment of the infantry. one third of it be an old muzzle load fowl piece with a rag rust hole where the nipple should have be one third a wire bind match lock with a worm eat stock and one third a four bore flint duck gun without a flint. 
but it be to be remember say the king reach out for the bottle that he be a very expert log snatcher and a man of a merry face. what shall i do to him sahib. 
this be interest. the timid hill folk would a soon have refuse tax to their king a revenue to their god. 
if it be the king s permission i say i will not strike my tent till the third day and i will see this man. the mercy of the king be god like and rebellion be like unto the sin of witchcraft. moreover both the bottle and another be empty. 
you have my leave to go say the king. 
next morning a crier go through the state proclaim that there be a log jam on the river and that it behove all loyal subject to remove it. the people pour down from their village to the moist warm valley of poppy field. and the king and i go with them. hundred of dress deodar log have catch on a snag of rock and the river be bring down more log every minute to complete the blockade. the water snarl and wrench and worry at the timber and the population of the state begin prod the near log with a pole in the hope of start a general movement. then there go up a shout of namgay doola. namgay doola. and a large red haired villager hurry up strip off his clothe a he run. 
that be he. that be the rebel say the king. now will the dam be clear. 
but why ha he red hair. i ask since red hair among hill folk be a common a blue or green. 
he be an outlander say the king. well do. oh well do. 
namgay doola have scramble out on the jam and be claw out the butt of a log with a rude sort of boat hook. it slide forward slowly a an alligator move three or four others follow it and the green water spout through the gap they have make. then the villager howl and shout and scramble across the log pull and push the obstinate timber and the red head of namgay doola be chief among them all. the log sway and chafe and groan a fresh consignment from upstream batter the now weaken dam. all give way at last in a smother of foam race log bob black head and confusion indescribable. the river toss everything before it. i saw the red head go down with the last remnant of the jam and disappear between the great grind tree trunk. it rise close to the bank and blow like a grampus. namgay doola wring the water out of his eye and make obeisance to the king. i have time to observe him closely. the virulent redness of his shock head and beard be most startle. and in the thicket of hair wrinkle above high cheek bone shine two very merry blue eye. he be indeed an outlander but yet a thibetan in language habit and attire. he speak the lepcha dialect with an indescribable soften of the guttural. it be not so much a lisp a an accent. 
whence comest thou. i ask. 
from thibet. he point across the hill and grin. that grin go straight to my heart. mechanically i hold out my hand and namgay doola shake it. no pure thibetan would have understand the mean of the gesture. he go away to look for his clothe and a he climb back to his village i hear a joyous yell that seem unaccountably familiar. it be the whoop of namgay doola. 
you see now say the king why i would not kill him. he be a bold man among my log but and he shake his head like a schoolmaster i know that before long there will be complaint of him in the court. let u return to the palace and do justice. it be that king s custom to judge his subject every day between eleven and three o clock. i saw him decide equitably in weighty matter of trespass slander and a little wife steal. then his brow cloud and he summon me. 
again it be namgay doola he say despairingly. not content with refuse revenue on his own part he ha bind half his village by an oath to the like treason. never before ha such a thing befall me. nor be my tax heavy. 
o king say i. if it be the king s will let this matter stand over till the morning. only the god can do right swiftly and it may be that yonder villager ha lie. 
nay for i know the nature of namgay doola. but since a guest ask let the matter remain. wilt thou speak harshly to this red head outlander. he may listen to thee. 
i make an attempt that very even but for the life of me i could not keep my countenance. namgay doola grin persuasively and begin to tell me about a big brown bear in a poppy field by the river. would i care to shoot it. i speak austerely on the sin of conspiracy and the certainty of punishment. namgay doola s face cloud for a moment. shortly afterwards he withdraw from my tent and i hear him sing to himself softly among the pine. the word be unintelligible to me but the tune like his liquid insinuate speech seem the ghost of something strangely familiar. 
dir han mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
sing namgay doola again and again and i rack my brain for that lose tune. it be not till after dinner that i discover some one have cut a square foot of velvet from the centre of my best camera cloth. this make me so angry that i wander down the valley in the hope of meet the big brown bear. i could hear him grunt like a discontent pig in the poppy field and i wait shoulder deep in the dew drip indian corn to catch him after his meal. the moon be at full and draw out the rich scent of the tasselled crop. then i hear the anguish bellow of a himalayan cow one of the little black crummies no big than newfoundland dog. two shadow that look like a bear and her cub hurry past me. i be in act to fire when i saw that they have each a brilliant red head. the less animal be trail some rope behind it that leave a dark track on the path. they pass within six foot of me and the shadow of the moonlight lay velvet black on their face. velvet black be exactly the word for by all the power of moonlight they be mask in the velvet of my camera cloth. i marvel and go to bed. next morning the kingdom be in uproar. namgay doola men say have go forth in the night and with a sharp knife have cut off the tail of a cow belong to the rabbit face villager who have betray him. it be sacrilege unspeakable against the holy cow. the state desire his blood but he have retreat into his hut barricade the door and window with big stone and defy the world. 
the king and i and the populace approach the hut cautiously. there be no hope of capture the man without loss of life for from a hole in the wall project the muzzle of an extremely well care for gun the only gun in the state that could shoot. namgay doola have narrowly miss a villager just before we come up. the stand army stand. it could do no more for when it advance piece of sharp shale fly from the window. to these be add from time to time shower of scald water. we saw red head bob up and down in the hut. the family of namgay doola be aid their sire and blood curdle yell of defiance be the only answer to our prayer. 
never say the king puff ha such a thing befall my state. next year i will certainly buy a little cannon. he look at me imploringly. 
be there any priest in the kingdom to whom he will listen. say i for a light be begin to break upon me. 
he worship his own god say the prime minister. we can starve him out. 
let the white man approach say namgay doola from within. all others i will kill. send me the white man. 
a rabbit face villager with a blush rise stick behind his ear advance tremble. he have be in the conspiracy but have tell everything and hop for the king s favour. 
the door be throw open and i enter the smoky interior of a thibetan hut cram with child. and every child have flame red hair. a raw cow s tail lay on the floor and by it side two piece of black velvet my black velvet rudely hack into the semblance of mask. 
and what be this shame namgay doola. say i. 
he grin more winningly than ever. there be no shame say he. i do but cut off the tail of that man s cow. he betray me. i be mind to shoot him sahib. but not to death. indeed not to death. only in the leg. 
and why at all since it be the custom to pay revenue to the king. why at all. 
by the god of my father i cannot tell say namgay doola. 
and who be thy father. 
the same that have this gun. he show me his weapon a tower musket bear date and the stamp of the honourable east india company. 
and thy father s name. say i. 
timlay doola say he. at the first i be then a little child it be in my mind that he wear a red coat. 
of that i have no doubt. but repeat the name of thy father thrice or four time. 
he obey and i understand whence the puzzle accent in his speech come. thimla dhula say he excitedly. to this hour i worship his god. 
may i see that god. 
in a little while at twilight time. 
rememberest thou aught of thy father s speech. 
it be long ago. but there be one word which he say often. thus _shun. then i and my brother stand upon our foot our hand to our side. thus. 
even so. and what be thy mother. 
a woman of the hill. we be lepchas of darjeeling but me they call an outlander because my hair be a thou seest. 
the thibetan woman his wife touch him on the arm gently. the long parley outside the fort have last far into the day. it be now close upon twilight the hour of the angelus. very solemnly the red head brat rise from the floor and form a semicircle. namgay doola lay his gun against the wall light a little oil lamp and set it before a recess in the wall. pull aside a curtain of dirty cloth he reveal a wear brass crucifix lean against the helmet badge of a long forget east india regiment. thus do my father he say cross himself clumsily. the wife and child follow suit. then all together they strike up the wail chant that i hear on the hillside. 
dir han mard i yemen dir to weeree ala gee. 
i be puzzle no long. again and again they croon a if their heart would break their version of the chorus of the wear of the green. 
they re hang men and woman too for the wear of the green. 
a diabolical inspiration come to me. one of the brat a boy about eight year old be watch me a he sing. i pull out a rupee hold the coin between finger and thumb and look only look at the gun against the wall. a grin of brilliant and perfect comprehension overspread the face of the child. never for an instant stop the song he hold out his hand for the money and then slide the gun to my hand. i might have shoot namgay doola a he chant. but i be satisfy. the blood instinct of the race hold true. namgay doola draw the curtain across the recess. angelus be over. 
thus my father sing. there be much more but i have forget and i do not know the purport of these word but it may be that the god will understand. i be not of this people and i will not pay revenue. 
and why. 
again that soul compel grin. what occupation would be to me between crop and crop. it be good than scar bear. but these people do not understand. he pick the mask from the floor and look in my face a simply a a child. 
by what road didst thou attain knowledge to make these devilry. i say point. 
i cannot tell. i be but a lepcha of darjeeling and yet the stuff. 
which thou hast steal. 
nay surely. do i steal. i desire it so. the stuff the stuff what else should i have do with the stuff. he twist the velvet between his finger. 
but the sin of maim the cow consider that. 
that be true. but oh sahib that man betray me and i have no think but the heifer s tail wave in the moonlight and i have my knife. what else should i have do. the tail come off ere i be aware. sahib thou knowest more than i. 
that be true say i. stay within the door. i go to speak to the king. 
the population of the state be range on the hillside. i go forth and speak to the king. 
oh king say i. touch this man there be two course open to thy wisdom. thou canst either hang him from a tree he and his brood till there remain no hair that be red within the land. 
nay say the king. why should i hurt the little child. 
they have pour out of the hut door and be make plump obeisance to everybody. nanigay doola wait with his gun across his arm. 
or thou canst discard the impiety of the cow maim raise him to honour in thy army. he come of a race that will not pay revenue. a red flame be in his blood which come out at the top of his head in that glow hair. make him chief of the army. give him honour a may befall and full allowance of work but look to it o king that neither he nor his hold a foot of earth from thee henceforward. fee him with word and favour and also liquor from certain bottle that thou knowest of and he will be a bulwark of defence. but deny him even a tuft of grass for his own. this be the nature that god ha give him. moreover he ha brother. 
the state groan unanimously. 
but if his brother come they will surely fight with each other till they die. or else the one will always give information concern the other. shall he be of thy army o king. choose. 
the king bow his head and i say come forth namgay doola and command the king s army. thy name shall no more be namgay in the mouth of men but patsay doola for a thou hast say i know. 
then namgay doola new christen patsay doola son of timlay doola which be tim doolan go very wrong indeed clasp the king s foot cuff the stand army and hurry in an agony of contrition from temple to temple make offering for the sin of cattle maim. 
and the king be so please with my perspicacity that he offer to sell me a village for twenty pound sterling. but i buy no village in the himalaya so long a one red head flare between the tail of the heaven climb glacier and the dark birch forest. 
i know that breed. 
a germ destroyer. 
pleasant it be for the little tin god when great jove nod. but little tin god make their little mistake in miss the hour when great jove wake. 
a a general rule it be inexpedient to meddle with question of state in a land where men be highly pay to work them out for you. this tale be a justifiable exception. 
once in every five year a you know we indent for a new viceroy. and each viceroy import with the rest of his baggage a private secretary who may or may not be the real viceroy just a fate ordain. fate look after the indian empire because it be so big and so helpless. 
there be a viceroy once who bring out with him a turbulent private secretary a hard man with a soft manner and a morbid passion for work. this secretary be call wonder john fennil wonder. the viceroy possess no name nothing but a string of county and two third of the alphabet after them. he say in confidence that he be the electro plat figurehead of a golden administration and he watch in a dreamy amuse way wonder s attempt to draw matter which be entirely outside his province into his own hand. when we be all cherubims together say his excellency once my dear good friend wonder will head the conspiracy for pluck out gabriel s tail feather or steal peter s key. then i shall report him. 
but though the viceroy do nothing to check wonder s officiousness other people say unpleasant thing. may be the member of council begin it. but finally all simla agree that there be too much wonder and too little viceroy in that rule. wonder be always quote his excellency. it be his excellency this his excellency that in the opinion of his excellency and so on. the viceroy smile. but he do not heed. he say that so long a his old men squabble with his dear good wonder they might be induce to leave the immemorial east in peace. 
no wise man ha a policy say the viceroy. a policy be the blackmail levy on the fool by the unforeseen. i be not the former and i do not believe in the latter. 
i do not quite see what this mean unless it refer to an insurance policy. perhaps it be the viceroy s way of say. lie low. 
that season come up to simla one of these crazy people with only a single idea. these be the men who make thing move. but they be not nice to talk to. this man s name be mellish and he have live for fifteen year on land of his own in low bengal study cholera. he hold that cholera be a germ that propagate itself a it fly through a muggy atmosphere. and stick in the branch of tree like a wool flake. the germ could be render sterile he say by mellish s own invincible fumigatory a heavy violet black powder the result of fifteen year scientific investigation sir. 
inventor seem very much alike a a caste. they talk loudly especially about conspiracy of monopolist. they beat upon the table with their fist. and they secrete fragment of their invention about their person. 
mellish say that there be a medical ring at simla head by the surgeon general who be in league apparently with all the hospital assistant in the empire. 
i forget exactly how he prove it but it have something to do with skulk up to the hill. and what mellish want be the independent evidence of the viceroy steward of our most gracious majesty the queen sir. so mellish go up to simla with eighty four pound of fumigatory in his trunk to speak to the viceroy and to show him the merit of the invention. 
but it be easy to see a viceroy than to talk to him unless you chance to be a important a mellishe of madras. he be a six thousand rupee man so great that his daughter never marry. they contract alliance. he himself be not pay. he receive emolument and his journey about the country be tour of observation. his business be to stir up the people in madras with a long pole a you stir up tench in a pond and the people have to come up out of their comfortable old way and gasp this be enlightenment and progress. isn t it fine. then they give mellishe statue and jasmine garland in the hope of get rid of him. 
mellishe come up to simla to confer with the viceroy. that be one of his perquisite. the viceroy know nothing of mellishe except that he be one of those middle class deity who seem necessary to the spiritual comfort of this paradise of the middle class and that in all probability he have suggest design found and endow all the public institution in madras. which prof that his excellency though dreamy have experience of the way of six thousand rupee men. 
mellishe s name be e. mellishe and mellish s be e. s. mellish and they be both stay at the same hotel and the fate that look after the indian empire ordain that wonder should blunder and drop the final e. that the chaprassi should help him and that the note which run. 
dear mr. mellish can you set aside your other engagement and lunch with u at two to morrow. his excellency ha an hour at your disposal then. 
should be give to mellish with the fumigatory. he nearly weep with pride and delight and at the appoint hour canter to peterhoff a big paper bag full of the fumigatory in his coat tail pocket. he have his chance and he mean to make the most of it. mellishe of madras have be so portentously solemn about his conference that wonder have arrange for a private tiffin no a. d. c. s no wonder no one but the viceroy who say plaintively that he fear be leave alone with unmuzzle autocrat like the great mellishe of madras. 
but his guest do not bore the viceroy. on the contrary he amuse him. mellish be nervously anxious to go straight to his fumigatory and talk at random until tiffin be over and his excellency ask him to smoke. the viceroy be please with mellish because he do not talk shop. 
a soon a the cheroot be light mellish speak like a man. begin with his cholera theory review his fifteen year scientific labour the machination of the simla ring and the excellence of his fumigatory while the viceroy watch him between half shut eye and think evidently this be the wrong tiger. but it be an original animal. mellish s hair be stand on end with excitement and he stammer. he begin grope in his coat tail and before the viceroy know what be about to happen he have tip a bagful of his powder into the big silver ash tray. 
j j judge for yourself sir say mellish. y excellency shall judge for yourself. absolutely infallible on my honour. 
he plunge the light end of his cigar into the powder which begin to smoke like a volcano and send up fat greasy wreath of copper colour smoke. in five second the room be fill with a most pungent and sicken stench a reek that take fierce hold of the trap of your wind pipe and shut it. the powder hiss and fizz and send out blue and green spark and the smoke rise till you could neither see nor breathe nor gasp. mellish however be use to it. 
nitrate of strontia he shout. baryta bone meal etcetera. thousand cubic foot smoke per cubic inch. not a germ could live not a germ y excellency. 
but his excellency have flee and be cough at the foot of the stair while all peterhoff hum like a hive. red lancer come in and the head chaprassi who speak english come in and mace bearer come in and lady run downstairs scream fire. for the smoke be drift through the house and ooze out of the window and belly along the verandah and wreathe and writhe across the garden. no one could enter the room where mellish be lecture on his fumigatory till that unspeakable powder have burn itself out. 
then an aide de camp who desire the v. c. rush through the roll cloud and haul mellish into the hall. the viceroy be prostrate with laughter and could only waggle his hand feebly at mellish who be shake a fresh bagful of powder at him. 
glorious. glorious. sob his excellency. not a germ a you justly observe could exist. i can swear it. a magnificent success. 
then he laugh till the tear come and wonder who have catch the real mellishe snort on the mall enter and be deeply shock at the scene. but the viceroy be delight because he saw that wonder would presently depart. mellish with the fumigatory be also please for he felt that he have smash the simla medical ring. 
few men could tell a story like his excellency when he take the trouble and his account of my dear good wonder s friend with the powder go the round of simla and flippant folk make wonder unhappy by their remark. 
but his excellency tell the tale once too often for wonder. a he mean to do. it be at a seepee picnic. wonder be sit just behind the viceroy. 
and i really think for a moment wind up his excellency that my dear good wonder have hire an assassin to clear his way to the throne. 
every one laugh. but there be a delicate sub tinkle in the viceroy s tone which wonder understand. he find that his health be give way. and the viceroy allow him to go and present him with a flame character for use at home among big people. 
my fault entirely say his excellency in after season with a twinkle in his eye. my inconsistency must always have be distasteful to such a masterly man. 
tiger tiger. 
what of the hunt hunter bold. brother the watch be long and cold. what of the quarry ye go to kill. brother he crop in the jungle still. where be the power that make your pride. brother it ebb from my flank and side. where be the haste that ye hurry by. brother i go to my lair to die. 
when mowgli leave the wolf s cave after the fight with the pack at the council rock he go down to the plough land where the villager live but he would not stop there because it be too near to the jungle and he know that he have make at least one bad enemy at the council. so he hurry on keep to the rough road that run down the valley and follow it at a steady jog trot for nearly twenty mile till he come to a country that he do not know. the valley open out into a great plain dot over with rock and cut up by ravine. at one end stand a little village and at the other the thick jungle come down in a sweep to the graze ground and stop there a though it have be cut off with a hoe. all over the plain cattle and buffalo be graze and when the little boy in charge of the herd saw mowgli they shout and run away and the yellow pariah dog that hang about every indian village bark. mowgli walk on for he be feel hungry and when he come to the village gate he saw the big thornbush that be draw up before the gate at twilight push to one side. 
umph. he say for he have come across more than one such barricade in his night ramble after thing to eat. so men be afraid of the people of the jungle here also. he sit down by the gate and when a man come out he stand up open his mouth and point down it to show that he want food. the man star and run back up the one street of the village shout for the priest who be a big fat man dress in white with a red and yellow mark on his forehead. the priest come to the gate and with him at least a hundred people who star and talk and shout and point at mowgli. 
they have no manner these men folk say mowgli to himself. only the gray ape would behave a they do. so he throw back his long hair and frown at the crowd. 
what be there to be afraid of. say the priest. look at the mark on his arm and leg. they be the bite of wolf. he be but a wolf child run away from the jungle. 
of course in play together the cub have often nip mowgli hard than they intend and there be white scar all over his arm and leg. but he would have be the last person in the world to call these bite for he know what real bite mean. 
arr. arr. say two or three woman together. to be bite by wolf poor child. he be a handsome boy. he ha eye like red fire. by my honour messua he be not unlike thy boy that be take by the tiger. 
let me look say a woman with heavy copper ring on her wrist and ankle and she peer at mowgli under the palm of her hand. indeed he be not. he be thin but he ha the very look of my boy. 
the priest be a clever man and he know that messua be wife to the rich villager in the place. so he look up at the sky for a minute and say solemnly. what the jungle ha take the jungle ha restore. take the boy into thy house my sister and forget not to honour the priest who see so far into the life of men. 
by the bull that buy me say mowgli to himself but all this talk be like another look over by the pack. well if i be a man a man i must be. 
the crowd part a the woman beckon mowgli to her hut where there be a red lacquer bedstead a great earthen grain chest with funny raise pattern on it half a dozen copper cook pot an image of a hindu god in a little alcove and on the wall a real look glass such a they sell at the country fair for eight cent. 
she give him a long drink of milk and some bread and then she lay her hand on his head and look into his eye. for she think perhaps that he might be her real son come back from the jungle where the tiger have take him. so she say. nathoo o nathoo. mowgli do not show that he know the name. dost thou not remember the day when i give thee thy new shoe. she touch his foot and it be almost a hard a horn. no she say sorrowfully. those foot have never wear shoe but thou art very like my nathoo and thou shalt be my son. 
mowgli be uneasy because he have never be under a roof before. but a he look at the thatch he saw that he could tear it out any time if he want to get away and that the window have no fastening. what be the good of a man he say to himself at last if he doe not understand man s talk. now i be a silly and dumb a a man would be with u in the jungle. i must speak their talk. 
he have not learn while he be with the wolf to imitate the challenge of buck in the jungle and the grunt of the little wild pig for fun. so a soon a messua pronounce a word mowgli would imitate it almost perfectly and before dark he have learn the name of many thing in the hut. 
there be a difficulty at bedtime because mowgli would not sleep under anything that look so like a panther trap a that hut and when they shut the door he go through the window. give him his will say messua s husband. remember he can never till now have sleep on a bed. if he be indeed send in the place of our son he will not run away. 
so mowgli stretch himself in some long clean grass at the edge of the field but before he have close his eye a soft gray nose poke him under the chin. 
phew. say gray brother. he be the eldest of mother wolf cub. this be a poor reward for follow thee twenty mile. thou smellest of wood smoke and cattle altogether like a man already. wake little brother. i bring news. 
be all well in the jungle. say mowgli hug him. 
all except the wolf that be burn with the red flower. now listen. shere khan ha go away to hunt far off till his coat grow again for he be badly sing. when he return he swear that he will lay thy bone in the waingunga. 
there be two word to that. i also have make a little promise. but news be always good. i be tire to night very tire with new thing gray brother but bring me the news always. 
thou wilt not forget that thou art a wolf. men will not make thee forget. say gray brother anxiously. 
never. i will always remember that i love thee and all in our cave. but also i will always remember that i have be cast out of the pack. 
and that thou may st be cast out of another pack. men be only men little brother and their talk be like the talk of frog in a pond. when i come down here again i will wait for thee in the bamboo at the edge of the graze grind. 
for three month after that night mowgli hardly ever leave the village gate he be so busy learn the way and custom of men. first he have to wear a cloth round him which annoy him horribly. and then he have to learn about money which he do not in the least understand and about plough of which he do not see the use. then the little child in the village make him very angry. luckily the law of the jungle have teach him to keep his temper for in the jungle life and food depend on keep your temper. but when they make fun of him because he would not play game or fly kite or because he mispronounce some word only the knowledge that it be unsportsmanlike to kill little naked cub keep him from pick them up and break them in two. he do not know his own strength in the least. in the jungle he know he be weak compare with the beast but in the village people say that he be a strong a a bull. he certainly have no notion of what fear be for when the village priest tell him that the god in the temple would be angry with him if he eat the priest s mango he pick up the image bring it over to the priest s house and ask the priest to make the god angry and he would be happy to fight him. it be a horrible scandal but the priest hush it up and messua s husband pay much good silver to comfort the god. and mowgli have not the faint idea of the difference that caste make between man and man. when the potter s donkey slip in the clay pit mowgli haul it out by the tail and help to stack the pot for their journey to the market at khanhiwara. that be very shock too for the potter be a low caste man and his donkey be bad. when the priest scold him mowgli threaten to put him on the donkey too and the priest tell messua s husband that mowgli have good be set to work a soon a possible. and the village headman tell mowgli that he would have to go out with the buffalo next day and herd them while they graze. no one be more please than mowgli. and that night because he have be appoint a servant of the village a it be he go off to a circle that meet every even on a masonry platform under a great fig tree. it be the village club and the head man and the watchman and the barber who know all the gossip of the village and old buldeo the village hunter who have a tower musket meet and smoke. the monkey sit and talk in the upper branch and there be a hole under the platform where a cobra live and he have his little platter of milk every night because he be sacred. and the old men sit around the tree and talk and pull at the big huqas. the water pipe. till far into the night. they tell wonderful tale of god and men and ghost. and buldeo tell even more wonderful one of the way of beast in the jungle till the eye of the child sit outside the circle bulge out of their head. most of the tale be about animal for the jungle be always at their door. the deer and the wild pig grub up their crop and now and again the tiger carry off a man at twilight within sight of the village gate. 
mowgli who naturally know something about what they be talk of have to cover his face not to show that he be laugh while buldeo the tower musket across his knee climb on from one wonderful story to another and mowgli s shoulder shake. 
buldeo be explain how the tiger that have carry away messua s son be a ghost tiger and his body be inhabit by the ghost of a wicked old money lender who have die some year ago. and i know that this be true he say because purun das always limp from the blow that he get in a riot when his account book be burn and the tiger that i speak of he limp too for the track of his pad be unequal. 
true true that must be the truth say the graybeard nod together. 
be all these tale such cobweb and moontalk. say mowgli. that tiger limp because he be bear lame a every one know. to talk of the soul of a money lender in a beast that never have the courage of a jackal be child s talk. 
buldeo be speechless with surprise for a moment and the head man star. 
oho. it be the jungle brat be it. say buldeo. if thou art so wise good bring his hide to khanhiwara for the government ha set a hundred rupee on his life. good still talk not when thy elder speak. 
mowgli rise to go. all the even i have lie here listen he call back over his shoulder and except once or twice buldeo ha not say one word of truth concern the jungle which be at his very door. how then shall i believe the tale of ghost and god and goblin which he say he ha see. 
it be full time that boy go to herd say the headman while buldeo puff and snort at mowgli s impertinence. 
the custom of most indian village be for a few boy to take the cattle and buffalo out to graze in the early morning and bring them back at night. and the very cattle that would trample a white man to death allow themselves to be bang and bully and shout at by child that hardly come up to their nose. so long a the boy keep with the herd they be safe for not even the tiger will charge a mob of cattle. but if they straggle to pick flower or hunt lizard they be sometimes carry off. mowgli go through the village street in the dawn sit on the back of rama the great herd bull. and the slaty blue buffalo with their long backward sweep horn and savage eye rise out of their byre one by one and follow him and mowgli make it very clear to the child with him that he be the master. he beat the buffalo with a long polish bamboo and tell kamya one of the boy to graze the cattle by themselves while he go on with the buffalo and to be very careful not to stray away from the herd. 
an indian graze grind be all rock and scrub and tussock and little ravine among which the herd scatter and disappear. the buffalo generally keep to the pool and muddy place where they lie wallow or bask in the warm mud for hour. mowgli drive them on to the edge of the plain where the waingunga come out of the jungle. then he drop from rama s neck trot off to a bamboo clump and find gray brother. ah say gray brother i have wait here very many day. what be the mean of this cattle herd work. 
it be an order say mowgli. i be a village herd for a while. what news of shere khan. 
he ha come back to this country and ha wait here a long time for thee. now he ha go off again for the game be scarce. but he mean to kill thee. 
very good say mowgli. so long a he be away do thou or one of the four brother sit on that rock so that i can see thee a i come out of the village. when he come back wait for me in the ravine by the dhk tree in the centre of the plain. we need not walk into shere khan s mouth. 
then mowgli pick out a shady place and lay down and sleep while the buffalo graze round him. herd in india be one of the lazy thing in the world. the cattle move and crunch and lie down and move on again and they do not even low. they only grunt and the buffalo very seldom say anything but get down into the muddy pool one after another and work their way into the mud till only their nose and star china blue eye show above the surface and then they lie like log. the sun make the rock dance in the heat and the herd child hear one kite. never any more. whistle almost out of sight overhead and they know that if they die or a cow die that kite would sweep down and the next kite mile away would see him drop and follow and the next and the next and almost before they be dead there would be a score of hungry kite come out of nowhere. then they sleep and wake and sleep again and weave little basket of dry grass and put grasshopper in them or catch two pray mantis and make them fight. or string a necklace of red and black jungle nut or watch a lizard bask on a rock or a snake hunt a frog near the wallow. then they sing long long song with odd native quaver at the end of them and the day seem long than most people s whole life and perhaps they make a mud castle with mud figure of men and horse and buffalo and put reed into the men s hand and pretend that they be king and the figure be their army or that they be god to be worship. then even come and the child call and the buffalo lumber up out of the sticky mud with noise like gunshot go off one after the other and they all string across the gray plain back to the twinkle village light. 
day after day mowgli would lead the buffalo out to their wallow and day after day he would see gray brother s back a mile and a half away across the plain. so he know that shere khan have not come back. and day after day he would lie on the grass listen to the noise round him and dream of old day in the jungle. if shere khan have make a false step with his lame paw up in the jungle by the waingunga mowgli would have hear him in those long still morning. 
at last a day come when he do not see gray brother at the signal place and he laugh and head the buffalo for the ravine by the dhk tree which be all cover with golden red flower. there sit gray brother every bristle on his back lift. 
he ha hide for a month to throw thee off thy guard. he cross the range last night with tabaqui hot foot on thy trail say the wolf pant. 
mowgli frown. i be not afraid of shere khan but tabaqui be very cunning. 
have no fear say gray brother lick his lip a little. i meet tabaqui in the dawn. now he be tell all his wisdom to the kite but he tell me everything before i break his back. shere khan s plan be to wait for thee at the village gate this even for thee and for no one else. he be lie up now in the big dry ravine of the waingunga. 
ha he eat to day or doe he hunt empty. say mowgli for the answer mean life and death to him. 
he kill at dawn a pig and he ha drink too. remember shere khan could never fast even for the sake of revenge. 
oh. fool fool. what a cub s cub it be. eat and drink too and he think that i shall wait till he ha sleep. now where doe he lie up. if there be but ten of u we might pull him down a he lie. these buffalo will not charge unless they wind him and i cannot speak their language. can we get behind his track so that they may smell it. 
he swim far down the waingunga to cut that off say gray brother. 
tabaqui tell him that i know. he would never have think of it alone. mowgli stand with his finger in his mouth think. the big ravine of the waingunga. that open out on the plain not half a mile from here. i can take the herd round through the jungle to the head of the ravine and then sweep down but he would slink out at the foot. we must block that end. gray brother canst thou cut the herd in two for me. 
not i perhaps but i have bring a wise helper. gray brother trot off and drop into a hole. then there lift up a huge gray head that mowgli know well and the hot air be fill with the most desolate cry of all the jungle the hunt howl of a wolf at mid day. 
akela. akela. say mowgli clap his hand. i might have know that thou wouldst not forget me. we have a big work in hand. cut the herd in two akela. keep the cow and calf together and the bull and the plough buffalo by themselves. 
the two wolf run lady chain fashion in and out of the herd which snort and throw up it head and separate into two clump. in one the cow buffalo stand with their calf in the centre and glare and paw ready if a wolf would only stay still to charge down and trample the life out of him. in the other the bull and the young bull snort and stamp but though they look more impose they be much le dangerous for they have no calf to protect. no six men could have divide the herd so neatly. 
what order. pant akela. they be try to join again. 
mowgli slip on to rama s back. drive the bull away to the leave akela. gray brother when we be go hold the cow together and drive them into the foot of the ravine. 
how far. say gray brother pant and snap. 
till the side be high than shere khan can jump shout mowgli. keep them there till we come down. the bull sweep off a akela bay and gray brother stop in front of the cow. they charge down on him and he run just before them to the foot of the ravine a akela drive the bull far to the leave. 
well do. another charge and they be fairly start. careful now careful akela. a snap too much and the bull will charge. hujah. this be wild work than drive black buck. didst thou think these creature could move so swiftly. mowgli call. 
i have have hunt these too in my time gasp akela in the dust. shall i turn them into the jungle. 
ay. turn. swiftly turn them. rama be mad with rage. oh if i could only tell him what i need of him today. 
the bull be turn to the right this time and crash into the stand thicket. the other herd child watch with the cattle half a mile away hurry to the village a fast a their leg could carry them cry that the buffalo have go mad and run away. but mowgli s plan be simple enough. all he want to do be to make a big circle uphill and get at the head of the ravine and then take the bull down it and catch shere khan between the bull and the cow. for he know that after a meal and a full drink shere khan would not be in any condition to fight or to clamber up the side of the ravine. he be soothe the buffalo now by voice and akela have drop far to the rear only whimper once or twice to hurry the rear guard. it be a long long circle for they do not wish to get too near the ravine and give shere khan warn. at last mowgli round up the bewilder herd at the head of the ravine on a grassy patch that slop steeply down to the ravine itself. from that height you could see across the top of the tree down to the plain below. but what mowgli look at be the side of the ravine and he saw with a great deal of satisfaction that they run nearly straight up and down while the vine and creeper that hang over them would give no foothold to a tiger who want to get out. 
let them breathe akela he say hold up his hand. they have not wind him yet. i must tell shere khan who come. we have him in a trap. 
he put his hand to his mouth and shout down the ravine it be almost like shout down a tunnel and the echo jump from rock to rock. 
after a long time there come back the drawl sleepy snarl of a full feed tiger just waken. 
who call. say shere khan and a splendid peacock flutter up out of the ravine screech. 
i mowgli. cattle thief it be time to come to the council rock. down hurry them down akela. down rama down. 
the herd pause for an instant at the edge of the slope but akela give tongue in the full hunt yell and they pitch over one after the other just a steamer shoot rapid the sand and stone spurt up round them. once start there be no chance of stop and before they be fairly in the bed of the ravine rama wind shere khan and bellow. 
ha. ha. say mowgli on his back. now thou knowest. and the torrent of black horn foam muzzle and star eye whirl down the ravine just a boulder go down in flood time. the weak buffalo be shoulder out to the side of the ravine where they tear through the creeper. they know what the business be before them the terrible charge of the buffalo herd against which no tiger can hope to stand. shere khan hear the thunder of their hoof pick himself up and lumber down the ravine look from side to side for some way of escape but the wall of the ravine be straight and he have to hold on heavy with his dinner and drink will to do anything rather than fight. the herd splash through the pool he have just leave bellow till the narrow cut ring. mowgli hear an answer bellow from the foot of the ravine saw shere khan turn. the tiger know if the bad come to the bad it be good to meet the bull than the cow with their calf. and then rama trip and stumble and go on again over something soft and with the bull at his heel crash full into the other herd while the weak buffalo be lift clean off their foot by the shock of the meet. that charge carry both herd out into the plain gore and stamp and snort. mowgli watch his time and slip off rama s neck lay about right and leave with his stick. 
quick akela. break them up. scatter them or they will be fight one another. drive them away akela. hai_ rama. hai. hai. hai. my child. softly now softly. it be all over. 
akela and gray brother run to and fro nip the buffalo leg and though the herd wheel once to charge up the ravine again mowgli manage to turn rama and the others follow him to the wallow. 
shere khan need no more trample. he be dead and the kite be come for him already. 
brother that be a dog s death say mowgli feel for the knife he always carry in a sheath round his neck now that he live with men. but he would never have show fight. wallah. his hide will look well on the council rock. we must get to work swiftly. 
a boy train among men would never have dream of skin a ten foot tiger alone but mowgli know good than any one else how an animal s skin be fit on and how it can be take off. but it be hard work and mowgli slash and tear and grunt for an hour while the wolf loll out their tongue or come forward and tug a he order them. presently a hand fell on his shoulder and look up he saw buldeo with the tower musket. the child have tell the village about the buffalo stampede and buldeo go out angrily only too anxious to correct mowgli for not take good care of the herd. the wolf drop out of sight a soon a they saw the man come. 
what be this folly. say buldeo angrily. to think that thou canst skin a tiger. where do the buffalo kill him. it be the lame tiger too and there be a hundred rupee on his head. well well we will overlook thy let the herd run off and perhaps i will give thee one of the rupee of the reward when i have take the skin to khanhiwara. he fumble in his waist cloth for flint and steel and stoop down to singe shere khan s whisker. most native hunter always singe a tiger s whisker to prevent his ghost from haunt them. 
hum. say mowgli half to himself a he rip back the skin of a forepaw. so thou wilt take the hide to khanhiwara for the reward and perhaps give me one rupee. now it be in my mind that i need the skin for my own use. heh. old man take away that fire. 
what talk be this to the chief hunter of the village. thy luck and the stupidity of thy buffalo have help thee to this kill. the tiger ha just feed or he would have go twenty mile by this time. thou canst not even skin him properly little beggar brat and forsooth i buldeo must be tell not to singe his whisker. mowgli i will not give thee one anna of the reward but only a very big beat. leave the carcass. 
by the bull that buy me say mowgli who be try to get at the shoulder must i stay babble to an old ape all noon. here akela this man plague me. 
buldeo who be still stoop over shere khan s head find himself sprawl on the grass with a gray wolf stand over him while mowgli go on skin a though he be alone in all india. 
ye e he say between his teeth. thou art altogether right buldeo. thou wilt never give me one anna of the reward. there be an old war between this lame tiger and myself a very old war and i have win. 
to do buldeo justice if he have be ten year young he would have take his chance with akela have he meet the wolf in the wood but a wolf who obey the order of this boy who have private war with man eat tiger be not a common animal. it be sorcery magic of the bad kind think buldeo and he wonder whether the amulet round his neck would protect him. he lay a still a still expect every minute to see mowgli turn into a tiger too. 
maharaj. great king he say at last in a husky whisper. 
yes say mowgli without turn his head chuckle a little. 
i be an old man. i do not know that thou wast anything more than a herdsboy. may i rise up and go away or will thy servant tear me to piece. 
go and peace go with thee. only another time do not meddle with my game. let him go akela. 
buldeo hobble away to the village a fast a he could look back over his shoulder in case mowgli should change into something terrible. when he get to the village he tell a tale of magic and enchantment and sorcery that make the priest look very grave. 
mowgli go on with his work but it be nearly twilight before he and the wolf have draw the great gray skin clear of the body. 
now we must hide this and take the buffalo home. help me to herd them akela. 
the herd round up in the misty twilight and when they get near the village mowgli saw light and hear the conch and bell in the temple blow and bang. half the village seem to be wait for him by the gate. that be because i have kill shere khan he say to himself. but a shower of stone whistle about his ear and the villager shout. sorcerer. wolf brat. jungle demon. go away. get hence quickly or the priest will turn thee into a wolf again. shoot buldeo shoot. 
the old tower musket go off with a bang and a young buffalo bellow in pain. 
more sorcery. shout the villager. he can turn bullet. buldeo that be thy buffalo. 
now what be this. say. mowgli bewilder a the stone fly thick. 
they be not unlike the pack these brother of thine say akela sit down composedly. it be in my head that if bullet mean anything they would cast thee out. 
wolf. wolf s cub. go away. shout the priest wave a sprig of the sacred tulsi plant. 
again. last time it be because i be a man. this time it be because i be a wolf. let u go akela. 
a woman it be messua run across to the herd and cry. oh my son my son. they say thou art a sorcerer who can turn himself into a beast at will. i do not believe but go away or they will kill thee. buldeo say thou art a wizard but i know thou hast avenge nathoo s death. 
come back messua. shout the crowd. come back or we will stone thee. 
mowgli laugh a little short ugly laugh for a stone have hit him in the mouth. run back messua. this be one of the foolish tale they tell under the big tree at dusk. i have at least pay for thy son s life. farewell. and run quickly for i shall send the herd in more swiftly than their brickbat. i be no wizard messua. farewell. 
now once more akela he cry. bring the herd in. 
the buffalo be anxious enough to get to the village. they hardly need akela s yell but charge through the gate like a whirlwind scatter the crowd right and leave. 
keep count. shout mowgli scornfully. it may be that i have steal one of them. keep count for i will do your herd no more. fare you well child of men and thank messua that i do not come in with my wolf and hunt you up and down your street. 
he turn on his heel and walk away with the lone wolf. and a he look up at the star he felt happy. no more sleep in trap for me akela. let u get shere khan s skin and go away. no. we will not hurt the village for messua be kind to me. 
when the moon rise over the plain make it look all milky the horrify villager saw mowgli with two wolf at his heel and a bundle on his head trot across at the steady wolf s trot that eat up the long mile like fire. then they bang the temple bell and blow the conch loud than ever. and messua cry and buldeo embroider the story of his adventure in the jungle till he end by say that akela stand up on his hind leg and talk like a man. 
the moon be just go down when mowgli and the two wolf come to the hill of the council rock and they stop at mother wolf s cave. 
they have cast me out from the man pack mother shout mowgli but i come with the hide of shere khan to keep my word. mother wolf walk stiffly from the cave with the cub behind her and her eye glow a she saw the skin. 
i tell him on that day when he cram his head and shoulder into this cave hunt for thy life little frog i tell him that the hunter would be the hunt. it be well do. 
little brother it be well do say a deep voice in the thicket. we be lonely in the jungle without thee and bagheera come run to mowgli s bare foot. they clamber up the council rock together and mowgli spread the skin out on the flat stone where akela use to sit and peg it down with four sliver of bamboo and akela lay down upon it and call the old call to the council look look well o wolf exactly a he have call when mowgli be first bring there. 
ever since akela have be depose the pack have be without a leader hunt and fight at their own pleasure. but they answer the call from habit. and some of them be lame from the trap they have fall into and some limp from shoot wound and some be mangy from eat bad food and many be miss. but they come to the council rock all that be leave of them and saw shere khan s strip hide on the rock and the huge claw dangle at the end of the empty dangle foot. 
look well o wolf. have i keep my word. say mowgli. and the wolf bay yes and one tattered wolf howl. 
lead u again o akela. lead u again o man cub for we be sick of this lawlessness and we would be the free people once more. 
nay purr bagheera that may not be. when ye be full feed the madness may come upon you again. not for nothing be ye call the free people. ye fight for freedom and it be yours. eat it o wolf. 
man pack and wolf pack have cast me out say mowgli. now i will hunt alone in the jungle. 
and we will hunt with thee say the four cub. 
so mowgli go away and hunt with the four cub in the jungle from that day on. but he be not always alone because year afterward he become a man and marry. 
but that be a story for grow up. 
mowgli s song. 
that he sing at the council rock when he dance on shere khan s hide. 
the song of mowgli i mowgli be sing. let the jungle listen to the thing i have do. shere khan say he would kill would kill. at the gate in the twilight he would kill mowgli the frog. he eat and he drink. drink deep shere khan for when wilt thou drink again. sleep and dream of the kill. i be alone on the graze ground. gray brother come to me. come to me lone wolf for there be big game afoot. bring up the great bull buffalo the blue skin herd bull with the angry eye. drive them to and fro a i order. sleepest thou still shere khan. wake o wake. here come i and the bull be behind. rama the king of the buffalo stamp with his foot. water of the waingunga whither go shere khan. he be not sahi to dig hole nor mor the peacock that he should fly. he be not mang the bat to hang in the branch. little bamboo that creak together tell me where he run. ow. he be there. ahoo. he be there. under the foot of rama lie the lame one. up shere khan. up and kill. here be meat. break the neck of the bull. hsh. he be asleep. we will not wake him for his strength be very great. the kite have come down to see it. the black ant have come up to know it. there be a great assembly in his honour. alala. i have no cloth to wrap me. the kite will see that i be naked. i be ashamed to meet all these people. lend me thy coat shere khan. lend me thy gay strip coat that i may go to the council rock. by the bull that buy me i make a promise a little promise. only thy coat be lack before i keep my word. with the knife with the knife that men use with the knife of the hunter i will stoop down for my gift. water of the waingunga shere khan give me his coat for the love that he bear me. pull gray brother. pull akela. heavy be the hide of shere khan. the man pack be angry. they throw stone and talk child s talk. my mouth be bleed. let me run away. through the night through the hot night run swiftly with me my brother. we will leave the light of the village and go to the low moon. water of the waingunga the man pack have cast me out. i do them no harm but they be afraid of me. why. wolf pack ye have cast me out too. the jungle be shut to me and the village gate be shut. why. a mang fly between the beast and bird so fly i between the village and the jungle. why. i dance on the hide of shere khan but my heart be very heavy. my mouth be cut and wound with the stone from the village but my heart be very light because i have come back to the jungle. why. these two thing fight together in me a the snake fight in the spring. the water come out of my eye. yet i laugh while it fall. why. i be two mowglis but the hide of shere khan be under my foot. all the jungle know that i have kill shere khan. look look well o wolf. ahae. my heart be heavy with the thing that i do not understand. 
tod amendment. 
the world hath set it heavy yoke upon the old white beard folk who strive to please the king. god s mercy be upon the young god s wisdom in the baby tongue that fear not anything. the parable of chajju bhagat. 
now tod mamma be a singularly charm woman and every one in simla know tod. most men have save him from death on occasion. he be beyond his ayah s control altogether and perilled his life daily to find out what would happen if you pull a mountain battery mule s tail. he be an utterly fearless young pagan about six year old and the only baby who ever break the holy calm of the supreme legislative council. 
it happen this way. tod pet kid get loose and flee up the hill off the boileaugunge road tod after it until it burst in to the viceregal lodge lawn then attach to peterhoff. the council be sit at the time and the window be open because it be warm. the red lancer in the porch tell tod to go away. but tod know the red lancer and most of the member of council personally. moreover he have firm hold of the kid s collar and be be drag all across the flower bed. give my salaam to the long councillor sahib_ and ask him to help me take moti back. gasp tod. the council hear the noise through the open window. and after an interval be see the shock spectacle of a legal member and a lieutenant governor help under the direct patronage of a commander in chief and a viceroy one small and very dirty boy in a sailor s suit and a tangle of brown hair to coerce a lively and rebellious kid. they head it off down the path to the mall and tod go home in triumph and tell his mamma that all the councillor sahib have be help him to catch moti. whereat his mamma smack tod for interfere with the administration of the empire. but tod meet the legal member the next day and tell him in confidence that if the legal member ever want to catch a goat he tod would give him all the help in his power. thank you tod say the legal member. 
tod be the idol of some eighty jhampanis_ and half a many saises. he salute them all a o brother. it never enter his head that any live human be could disobey his order. and he be the buff between the servant and his mamma s wrath. the work of that household turn on tod who be adore by every one from the dhoby to the dog boy. even futteh khan the villainous loafer khit from mussoorie shirk risk tod displeasure for fear his co mate should look down on him. 
so tod have honour in the land from boileaugunge to chota simla and rule justly accord to his light. of course he speak urdu but he have also master many queer side speech like the chotee bolee of the woman and hold grave converse with shopkeeper and hill cooly alike. he be precocious for his age and his mix with native have teach him some of the more bitter truth of life. the meanness and the sordidness of it. he use over his bread and milk to deliver solemn and serious aphorism translate from the vernacular into the english that make his mamma jump and vow that tod must go home next hot weather. just when tod be in the bloom of his power the supreme legislature be hack out a bill for the sub montane tract a revision of the then act small than the punjab land bill but affect a few hundred thousand people none the le. the legal member have build and bolster and embroider and amend that bill till it look beautiful on paper. then the council begin to settle what they call the minor detail. a if any englishman legislate for native know enough to know which be the minor and which be the major point from the native point of view of any measure. that bill be a triumph of safe guard the interest of the tenant. one clause provide that land should not be lease on long term than five year at a stretch. because if the landlord have a tenant bind down for say twenty year he would squeeze the very life out of him. the notion be to keep up a stream of independent cultivator in the sub montane tract. and ethnologically and politically the notion be correct. the only drawback be that it be altogether wrong. a native s life in india imply the life of his son. wherefore you cannot legislate for one generation at a time. you must consider the next from the native point of view. curiously enough the native now and then and in northern india more particularly hate be over protect against himself. there be a naga village once where they live on dead and bury commissariat mule. but that be another story. 
for many reason to be explain late the people concern object to the bill. the native member in council know a much about punjabi a he know about char cross. he have say in calcutta that the bill be entirely in accord with the desire of that large and important class the cultivator. and so on and so on. the legal member s knowledge of native be limit to english speak durbaris and his own red chaprassis_ the sub montane tract concern no one in particular the deputy commissioner be a good deal too drive to make representation and the measure be one which deal with small land holder only. nevertheless the legal member pray that it might be correct for he be a nervously conscientious man. he do not know that no man can tell what native think unless he mix with them with the varnish off. and not always then. but he do the best he know. and the measure come up to the supreme council for the final touch while tod patrol the burra simla bazar in his morning ride and play with the monkey belong to ditta mull the bunnia_ and listen a a child listen to all the stray talk about this new freak of the lord sahib s. 
one day there be a dinner party at the house of tod mamma and the legal member come. tod be in bed but he keep awake till he hear the burst of laughter from the men over the coffee. then he paddle out in his little red flannel dress gown and his night suit and take refuge by the side of his father know that he would not be send back. see the misery of have a family. say tod father give tod three prune some water in a glass that have be use for claret and tell him to sit still. tod suck the prune slowly know that he would have to go when they be finish and sip the pink water like a man of the world a he listen to the conversation. presently the legal member talk shop to the head of a department mention his bill by it full name the sub montane tract ryotwary revise enactment. tod catch the one native word and lift up his small voice say. 
oh i know all about that. ha it be murramutted yet councillor sahib. 
how much. say the legal member. murramutted mend. put theek_ you know make nice to please ditta mull. 
the legal member leave his place and move up next to tod. 
what do you know about ryotwari_ little man. he say. 
i m not a little man i m tod and i know all about it. ditta mull and choga lall and amir nath and oh lakh of my friend tell me about it in the bazar when i talk to them. 
oh they do do they. what do they say tod. 
tod tuck his foot under his red flannel dress gown and say i must fink. 
the legal member wait patiently. then tod with infinite compassion. 
you don t speak my talk do you councillor sahib. 
no. i be sorry to say i do not say the legal member. 
very well say tod i must fink in english. 
he spend a minute put his idea in order and begin very slowly translate in his mind from the vernacular to english a many anglo indian child do. you must remember that the legal member help him on by question when he halt for tod be not equal to the sustain flight of oratory that follow. 
ditta mull say this thing be the talk of a child and be make up by fool. but i don t think you be a fool councillor sahib_ say tod hastily. you catch my goat. this be what ditta mull say i be not a fool and why should the sirkar say i be a child. i can see if the land be good and if the landlord be good. if i be a fool the sin be upon my own head. for five year i take my grind for which i have save money and a wife i take too and a little son be bear. ditta mull ha one daughter now but he say he will have a son soon. and he say at the end of five year by this new bundobust_ i must go. if i do not go i must get fresh seal and takkus stamp on the paper perhaps in the middle of the harvest and to go to the law court once be wisdom but to go twice be jehannum. that be quite true explain tod gravely. all my friend say so. and ditta mull say always fresh takkus and pay money to vakils and chaprassis and law court every five year or else the landlord make me go. why do i want to go. be i a fool. if i be a fool and do not know after forty year good land when i see it let me die. but if the new bundobust say for fifteen year that be good and wise. my little son be a man and i be burn and he take the grind or another grind pay only once for the takkus stamp on the paper and his little son be bear and at the end of fifteen year be a man too. but what profit be there in five year and fresh paper. nothing but dikh_ trouble dikh. we be not young men who take these land but old one not farmer but tradesman with a little money and for fifteen year we shall have peace. nor be we child that the sirkar should treat u so. 
here tod stop short for the whole table be listen. the legal member say to tod be that all. 
all i can remember say tod. but you should see ditta mull s big monkey. it s just like a councillor sahib. 
tod. go to bed. say his father. 
tod gather up his dress gown tail and depart. the legal member bring his hand down on the table with a crash by jove. say the legal member i believe the boy be right. the short tenure be the weak point. 
he leave early think over what tod have say. now it be obviously impossible for the legal member to play with a bunnia s monkey by way of get understand. but he do good. he make inquiry always bear in mind the fact that the real native not the hybrid university train mule be a timid a a colt and little by little he coax some of the men whom the measure concern most intimately to give in their view which square very closely with tod evidence. 
so the bill be amend in that clause. and the legal member be fill with an uneasy suspicion that native member represent very little except the order they carry on their bosom. but he put the think from him a illiberal. he be a most liberal man. 
after a time the news spread through the bazar that tod have get the bill recast in the tenure clause and if tod mamma have not interfere tod would have make himself sick on the basket of fruit and pistachio nut and cabuli grape and almond that crowd the verandah. till he go home tod rank some few degree before the viceroy in popular estimation. but for the little life of him tod could not understand why. 
in the legal member s private paper box still lie the rough draft of the sub montane tract ryotwary revise enactment. and opposite the twenty second clause pencil in blue chalk and sign by the legal member be the word tod amendment. 
the story of muhammad din. 
who be the happy man. he that see in his own house at home little child crown with dust leap and fall and cry. 
munichandra_ translate by professor peterson. 
the polo ball be an old one scar chip and dinted. it stand on the mantelpiece among the pipe stem which imam din khitmatgar_ be clean for me. 
doe the heaven bear want this ball. say imam din deferentially. 
the heaven bear set no particular store by it. but of what use be a polo ball to a khitmatgar. 
by your honour s favour i have a little son. he ha see this ball and desire it to play with i do not want it for myself. 
no one would for an instant accuse portly old imam din of want to play with polo ball. he carry out the batter thing into the verandah. and there follow a hurricane of joyful squeak a patter of small foot and the thud thud thud of the ball roll along the grind. evidently the little son have be wait outside the door to secure his treasure. but how have he manage to see that polo ball. 
next day come back from office half an hour early than usual i be aware of a small figure in the din room a tiny plump figure in a ridiculously inadequate shirt which come perhaps halfway down the tubby stomach. it wander round the room thumb in mouth croon to itself a it take stock of the picture. undoubtedly this be the little son. 
he have no business in my room of course. but be so deeply absorb in his discovery that he never notice me in the doorway. i step into the room and startle him nearly into a fit. he sit down on the grind with a gasp. his eye open and his mouth follow suit. i know what be come and flee follow by a long dry howl which reach the servant quarter far more quickly than any command of mine have ever do. in ten second imam din be in the din room. then despair sob arise and i return to find imam din admonish the small sinner who be use most of his shirt a a handkerchief. 
this boy say imam din judicially be a budmash a big budmash. he will without doubt go to the jail khana_ for his behaviour. renew yell from the penitent and an elaborate apology to myself from imam din. 
tell the baby say i that the sahib be not angry and take him away. imam din convey my forgiveness to the offender who have now gather all his shirt round his neck stringwise and the yell subside into a sob. the two set off for the door. his name say imam din a though the name be part of the crime be muhammad din and he be a budmash. free from present danger muhammad din turn round in his father s arm and say gravely it be true that my name be muhammad din tahib_ but i be not a budmash. i be a man. 
from that day date my acquaintance with muhammad din. never again do he come into my din room but on the neutral grind of the garden we greet each other with much state though our conversation be confine to talaam tahib from his side and salaam muhammad din from mine. daily on my return from office the little white shirt and the fat little body use to rise from the shade of the creeper cover trellis where they have be hide. and daily i check my horse here that my salutation might not be slur over or give unseemly. 
muhammad din never have any companion. he use to trot about the compound in and out of the castor oil bush on mysterious errand of his own. one day i stumble upon some of his handiwork far down the ground. he have half bury the polo ball in dust and stick six shrivel old marigold flower in a circle round it. outside that circle again be a rude square trace out in bit of red brick alternate with fragment of break china. the whole bound by a little bank of dust. the water man from the well curb put in a plea for the small architect say that it be only the play of a baby and do not much disfigure my garden. 
heaven know that i have no intention of touch the child s work then or late. but that even a stroll through the garden bring me unawares full on it. so that i trample before i know marigold head dust bank and fragment of break soap dish into confusion past all hope of mend. next morning i come upon muhammad din cry softly to himself over the ruin i have work. some one have cruelly tell him that the sahib be very angry with him for spoil the garden and have scatter his rubbish use bad language the while. muhammad din labour for an hour at efface every trace of the dust bank and pottery fragment and it be with a tearful and apologetic face that he say talaam tahib_ when i come home from office. a hasty inquiry result in imam din inform muhammad din that by my singular favour he be permit to disport himself a he please. whereat the child take heart and fell to trace the grind plan of an edifice which be to eclipse the marigold polo ball creation. 
for some month the chubby little eccentricity revolve in his humble orbit among the castor oil bush and in the dust. always fashion magnificent palace from stale flower throw away by the bearer smooth water wear pebble bit of break glass and feather pull i fancy from my fowl always alone and always croon to himself. 
a gaily spot sea shell be drop one day close to the last of his little building. and i look that muhammad din should build something more than ordinarily splendid on the strength of it. nor be i disappoint he meditate for the good part of an hour and his croon rise to a jubilant song. then he begin trace in the dust. it would certainly be a wondrous palace this one for it be two yard long and a yard broad in grind plan. but the palace be never complete. 
next day there be no muhammad din at the head of the carriage drive and no talaam tahib to welcome my return. i have grow accustom to the greet and it omission trouble me. next day imam din tell me that the child be suffer slightly from fever and need quinine. he get the medicine and an english doctor. 
they have no stamen these brat say the doctor a he leave imam din s quarter. 
a week late though i would have give much to have avoid it i meet on the road to the mussulman bury grind imam din accompany by one other friend carry in his arm wrap in a white cloth all that be leave of little muhammad din. 
the finance of the god. 
the even meal be end in dhunni bhagat s chubara and the old priest be smoke or count their bead. a little naked child patter in with it mouth wide open a handful of marigold flower in one hand and a lump of conserve tobacco in the other. it try to kneel and make obeisance to gobind but it be so fat that it fell forward on it shave head and roll on it side kick and gasp while the marigold tumble one way and the tobacco the other. gobind laugh set it up again and bless the marigold flower a he receive the tobacco. 
from my father say the child. he ha the fever and cannot come. wilt thou pray for him father. 
surely little. but the smoke be on the grind and the night chill be in the air and it be not good to go abroad naked in the autumn. 
i have no clothe say the child and all to day i have be carry cow dung cake to the bazar. it be very hot and i be very tire. it shiver a little for the twilight be cool. 
gobind lift an arm under his vast tattered quilt of many colour and make an invite little nest by his side. the child creep in and gobind fill his brass stud leather waterpipe with the new tobacco. when i come to the chubara the shave head with the tuft atop and the beady black eye look out of the fold of the quilt a a squirrel look out from his nest and gobind be smile while the child play with his beard. 
i would have say something friendly but remember in time that if the child fell ill afterwards i should be credit with the evil eye and that be a horrible possession. sit thou still thumbling i say a it make to get up and run away. where be thy slate and why ha the teacher let such an evil character loose on the street when there be no police to protect u weakling. in which ward dost thou try to break thy neck with fly kite from the house top. 
nay sahib nay say the child burrow it face into gobind s beard and twist uneasily. there be a holiday to day among the school and i do not always fly kite. i play k li kit like the rest. 
cricket be the national game among the school boy of the punjab from the naked hedge school child who use an old kerosine tin for wicket to the b. a. s of the university who compete for the championship belt. 
thou play kerlikit. thou art half the weight of the bat. i say. 
the child nod resolutely. yea i do play. perlay ball. ow at. run run run. i know it all. 
but thou must not forget with all this to pray to the god accord to custom say gobind who do not altogether approve of cricket and western innovation. 
i do not forget say the child in a hush voice. 
also to give reverence to thy teacher and. 
gobind s voice soften to abstain from pull holy men by the beard little badling. eh eh eh. 
the child s face be altogether hide in the great white beard and it begin to whimper till gobind soothe it a child be soothe all the world over with the promise of a story. 
i do not think to frighten thee senseless little one. look up. be i angry. ar ar ar. shall i weep too and of our tear make a great pond and drown u both and then thy father will never get well lack thee to pull his beard. peace peace and i will tell thee of the god. thou hast hear many tale. 
very many father. 
now this be a new one which thou hast not hear. long and long ago when the god walk with men a they do to day but that we have not faith to see shiv the great of god and parbati his wife be walk in the garden of a temple. 
which temple. that in the nandgaon ward. say the child. 
nay very far away. maybe at trimbak or hurdwar whither thou must make pilgrimage when thou art a man. now there be sit in the garden under the jujube tree a mendicant that have worship shiv for forty year and he live on the offering of the pious and meditate holiness night and day. 
oh father be it thou. say the child look up with large eye. 
nay i have say it be long ago and moreover this mendicant be marry. 
do they put him on a horse with flower on his head and forbid him to go to sleep all night long. thus they do to me when they make my wed say the child who have be marry a few month before. 
and what didst thou do. say i. 
i weep and they call me evil name and then i smite her_ and we weep together. 
thus do not the mendicant say gobind. for he be a holy man and very poor. parbati perceive him sit naked by the temple step where all go up and down and she say to shiv what shall men think of the god when the god thus scorn the worshipper. for forty year yonder man ha pray to u and yet there be only a few grain of rice and some break cowry before him after all. men s heart will be harden by this thing. and shiv say it shall be look to and so he call to the temple which be the temple of his son ganesh of the elephant head say son there be a mendicant without who be very poor. what wilt thou do for him. then that great elephant head one awake in the dark and answer in three day if it be thy will he shall have one lakh of rupee. then shiv and parbati go away. 
but there be a money lender in the garden hide among the marigold the child look at the ball of crumple blossom in it hand ay among the yellow marigold and he hear the god talk. he be a covetous man and of a black heart and he desire that lakh of rupee for himself. so he go to the mendicant and say oh brother how much do the pious give thee daily. the mendicant say i cannot tell. sometimes a little rice sometimes a little pulse and a few cowry and it ha be pickle mango and dry fish. 
that be good say the child smack it lip. then say the money lender because i have long watch thee and learn to love thee and thy patience i will give thee now five rupee for all thy earn of the three day to come. there be only a bond to sign on the matter. but the mendicant say thou art mad. in two month i do not receive the worth of five rupee and he tell the thing to his wife that even. she be a woman say when do money lender ever make a bad bargain. the wolf run the corn for the sake of the fat deer. our fate be in the hand of the god. pledge it not even for three day. 
so the mendicant return to the money lender and would not sell. then that wicked man sit all day before him offer more and more for those three day earn. first ten fifty and a hundred rupee. and then for he do not know when the god would pour down their gift rupee by the thousand till he have offer half a lakh of rupee. upon this sum the mendicant s wife shift her counsel and the mendicant sign the bond and the money be pay in silver. great white bullock bring it by the cartload. but save only all that money the mendicant receive nothing from the god at all and the heart of the money lender be uneasy on account of expectation. therefore at noon of the third day the money lender go into the temple to spy upon the council of the god and to learn in what manner that gift might arrive. even a he be make his prayer a crack between the stone of the floor gap and close catch him by the heel. then he hear the god walk in the temple in the darkness of the column and shiv call to his son ganesh say son what hast thou do in regard to the lakh of rupee for the mendicant. and ganesh wake for the moneylender hear the dry rustle of his trunk uncoil and he answer father one half of the money ha be pay and the debtor for the other half i hold here fast by the heel. 
the child bubble with laughter. and the moneylender pay the mendicant. it say. 
surely for he whom the god hold by the heel must pay to the uttermost. the money be pay at even all silver in great cart and thus ganesh do his work. 
nathu. oh^e nathu. 
a woman be call in the dusk by the door of the courtyard. 
the child begin to wriggle. that be my mother it say. 
go then little answer gobind. but stay a moment. 
he rip a generous yard from his patchwork quilt put it over the child s shoulder and the child run away. 
moti guj mutineer. 
once upon a time there be a coffee planter in india who wish to clear some forest land for coffee plant. when he have cut down all the tree and burn the under wood the stump still remain. dynamite be expensive and slow fire slow. the happy medium for stump clear be the lord of all beast who be the elephant. he will either push the stump out of the grind with his tusk if he ha any or drag it out with rope. the planter therefore hire elephant by one and two and three and fell to work. the very best of all the elephant belong to the very bad of all the driver or mahout. and the superior beast s name be moti guj. he be the absolute property of his mahout which would never have be the case under native rule for moti guj be a creature to be desire by king. and his name be translate mean the pearl elephant. because the british government be in the land deesa the mahout enjoy his property undisturbed. he be dissipate. when he have make much money through the strength of his elephant he would get extremely drink and give moti guj a beat with a tent peg over the tender nail of the forefoot. moti guj never trample the life out of deesa on these occasion for he know that after the beat be over deesa would embrace his trunk and weep and call him his love and his life and the liver of his soul and give him some liquor. moti guj be very fond of liquor arrack for choice though he would drink palm tree toddy if nothing good offer. then deesa would go to sleep between moti guj s forefoot and a deesa generally choose the middle of the public road and a moti guj mount guard over him and would not permit horse foot or cart to pas by traffic be congest till deesa saw fit to wake up. 
there be no sleep in the daytime on the planter s clear. the wage be too high to risk. deesa sit on moti guj s neck and give him order while moti guj root up the stump for he own a magnificent pair of tusk. or pull at the end of a rope for he have a magnificent pair of shoulder while deesa kick him behind the ear and say he be the king of elephant. at even time moti guj would wash down his three hundred pound weight of green food with a quart of arrack and deesa would take a share and sing song between moti guj s leg till it be time to go to bed. once a week deesa lead moti guj down to the river and moti guj lay on his side luxuriously in the shallow while deesa go over him with a coir swab and a brick. moti guj never mistake the pound blow of the latter for the smack of the former that warn him to get up and turn over on the other side. then deesa would look at his foot and examine his eye and turn up the fringe of his mighty ear in case of sore or bud ophthalmia. after inspection the two would come up with a song from the sea moti guj all black and shin wave a tear tree branch twelve foot long in his trunk and deesa knot up his own long wet hair. 
it be a peaceful well pay life till deesa felt the return of the desire to drink deep. he wish for an orgie. the little draught that lead nowhere be take the manhood out of him. 
he go to the planter and my mother s dead say he weep. 
she die on the last plantation two month ago. and she die once before that when you be work for me last year say the planter who know something of the way of nativedom. 
then it s my aunt and she be just the same a a mother to me say deesa weep more than ever. she ha leave eighteen small child entirely without bread and it be i who must fill their little stomach say deesa beat his head on the floor. 
who bring you the news. say the planter. the post say deesa. 
there hasn t be a post here for the past week. get back to your line. 
a devastate sickness ha fall on my village and all my wife be die yell deesa really in tear this time. call chihun who come from deesa s village say the planter. chihun ha this man a wife. 
he. say chihun. no. not a woman of our village would look at him. they d sooner marry the elephant. chihun snort. deesa weep and bellow. 
you will get into a difficulty in a minute say the planter. go back to your work. 
now i will speak heaven s truth gulp deesa with an inspiration. i haven t be drink for two month. i desire to depart in order to get properly drink afar off and distant from this heavenly plantation. thus i shall cause no trouble. 
a flicker smile cross the planter s face. deesa say he you ve speak the truth and i d give you leave on the spot if anything could be do with moti guj while you re away. you know that he will only obey your order. 
may the light of the heaven live forty thousand year. i shall be absent but ten little day. after that upon my faith and honour and soul i return. a to the inconsiderable interval have i the gracious permission of the heaven bear to call up moti guj. 
permission be grant and in answer to deesa s shrill yell the lordly tusker swing out of the shade of a clump of tree where he have be squirt dust over himself till his master should return. 
light of my heart protector of the drunken mountain of might give ear say deesa stand in front of him. 
moti guj give ear and salute with his trunk i be go away say deesa. 
moti guj s eye twinkle. he like jaunt a well a his master. one could snatch all manner of nice thing from the roadside then. 
but you you fubsy old pig must stay behind and work. 
the twinkle die out a moti guj try to look delight. he hat stump haul on the plantation. it hurt his teeth. 
i shall be go for ten day oh delectable one. hold up your near forefoot and i ll impress the fact upon it warty toad of a dry mud puddle. deesa take a tent peg and bang moti guj ten time on the nail. moti guj grunt and shuffle from foot to foot. 
ten day say deesa you must work and haul and root tree a chihun here shall order you. take up chihun and set him on your neck. moti guj curl the tip of his trunk chihun put his foot there and be swing on to the neck. deesa hand chihun the heavy ankus_ the iron elephant goad. 
chihun thump moti guj s bald head a a paviour thump a kerbstone. 
moti guj trumpet. 
be still hog of the backwoods. chihun s your mahout for ten day. and now bid me good bye beast after mine own heart. oh my lord my king. jewel of all create elephant lily of the herd preserve your honour health. be virtuous. adieu. 
moti guj lap his trunk round deesa and swing him into the air twice. that be his way of bid the man good bye. 
he ll work now say deesa to the planter. have i leave to go. 
the planter nod and deesa dive into the wood. moti guj go back to haul stump. 
chihun be very kind to him but he felt unhappy and forlorn notwithstanding. chihun give him ball of spice and tickle him under the chin and chihun s little baby coo to him after work be over and chihun s wife call him a darling. but moti guj be a bachelor by instinct a deesa be. he do not understand the domestic emotion. he want the light of his universe back again the drink and the drunken slumber the savage beating and the savage caress. 
none the le he work well and the planter wonder. deesa have vagabond along the road till he meet a marriage procession of his own caste and drink dance and tipple have drift past all knowledge of the lapse of time. 
the morning of the eleventh day dawn and there return no deesa. moti guj be loose from his rope for the daily stint. he swing clear look round shrug his shoulder and begin to walk away a one have business elsewhere. 
hi. ho. come back you shout chihun. come back and put me on your neck misborn mountain. return splendour of the hillside. adornment of all india heave to or i ll bang every toe off your fat forefoot. 
moti guj gurgle gently but do not obey. chihun run after him with a rope and catch him up. moti guj put his ear forward and chihun know what that mean though he try to carry it off with high word. 
none of your nonsense with me say he. to your picket devil son. 
hrrump. say moti guj and that be all that and the forebent ear. 
moti guj put his hand in his pocket chew a branch for a toothpick and stroll about the clear make jest of the other elephant who have just set to work. 
chihun report the state of affair to the planter who come out with a dog whip and crack it furiously. moti guj pay the white man the compliment of charge him nearly a quarter of a mile across the clear and hrrumphing him into the verandah. then he stand outside the house chuckle to himself and shake all over with the fun of it a an elephant will. 
we ll thrash him say the planter. he shall have the fine thrash that ever elephant receive. give kala nag and nazim twelve foot of chain apiece and tell them to lay on twenty blow. 
kala nag which mean black snake and nazim be two of the big elephant in the line and one of their duty be to administer the grave punishment since no man can beat an elephant properly. 
they take the whip chain and rattle them in their trunk a they sidle up to moti guj mean to hustle him between them. moti guj have never in all his life of thirty nine year be whip and he do not intend to open new experience. so he wait weave his head from right to leave and measure the precise spot in kala nag s fat side where a blunt tusk would sink deep. kala nag have no tusk. the chain be his badge of authority. but he judge it good to swing wide of moti guj at the last minute and seem to appear a if he have bring out the chain for amusement. nazim turn round and go home early. he do not feel fight fit that morning and so moti guj be leave stand alone with his ear cock. 
that decide the planter to argue no more and moti guj roll back to his inspection of the clear. an elephant who will not work and be not tie up be not quite so manageable a an eighty one ton gun loose in a heavy sea way. he slap old friend on the back and ask them if the stump be come away easily. he talk nonsense concern labour and the inalienable right of elephant to a long nooning. and wander to and fro thoroughly demoralise the garden until sundown when he return to his picket for food. 
if you win t work you shan t eat say chihun angrily. you re a wild elephant and no educate animal at all. go back to your jungle. 
chihun s little brown baby roll on the floor of the hut stretch it fat arm to the huge shadow in the doorway. moti guj know well that it be the dear thing on earth to chihun. he swing out his trunk with a fascinate crook at the end and the brown baby throw itself shout upon it. moti guj make fast and pull up till the brown baby be crow in the air twelve foot above his father s head. 
great chief. say chihun. flour cake of the best twelve in number two foot across and soak in rum shall be yours on the instant and two hundred pound weight of fresh cut young sugar cane therewith. deign only to put down safely that insignificant brat who be my heart and my life to me. 
moti guj tuck the brown baby comfortably between his forefoot that could have knock into toothpick all chihun s hut and wait for his food. he eat it and the brown baby crawl away. moti guj doze and think of deesa. one of many mystery connect with the elephant be that his huge body need le sleep than anything else that life. four or five hour in the night suffice two just before midnight lie down on one side. two just after one o clock lie down on the other. the rest of the silent hour be fill with eat and fidget and long grumble soliloquy. 
at midnight therefore moti guj stride out of his picket for a think have come to him that deesa might be lie drink somewhere in the dark forest with none to look after him. so all that night he chase through the undergrowth blow and trumpet and shake his ear. he go down to the river and blare across the shallow where deesa use to wash him but there be no answer. he could not find deesa but he disturb all the elephant in the line and nearly frighten to death some gipsy in the wood. 
at dawn deesa return to the plantation. he have be very drink indeed and he expect to fall into trouble for outstay his leave. he draw a long breath when he saw that the bungalow and the plantation be still uninjured. for he know something of moti guj s temper. and report himself with many lie and salaam. moti guj have go to his picket for breakfast. his night exercise have make him hungry. 
call up your beast say the planter and deesa shout in the mysterious elephant language that some mahout believe come from china at the birth of the world when elephant and not men be master. moti guj hear and come. elephant do not gallop. they move from spot at vary rate of speed. if an elephant wish to catch an express train he could not gallop but he could catch the train. thus moti guj be at the planter s door almost before chihun notice that he have leave his picket. he fell into deesa s arm trumpet with joy and the man and beast weep and slobber over each other and handle each other from head to heel to see that no harm have befall. 
now we will get to work say deesa. lift me up my son and my joy. 
moti guj swing him up and the two go to the coffee clear to look for irksome stump. 
the planter be too astonish to be very angry. 
poetry. 
the native bear. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. but he doe not understand. we ve drink to the wide creation and the cross swing low for the morn. last toast and of obligation a health to the native bear. 
they change their sky above them but not their heart that roam. we learn from our wistful mother to call old england home. we read of the english skylark of the spring in the english lane but we scream with the paint lory a we ride on the dusty plain. 
they pass with their old world legend their tale of wrong and dearth our father hold by purchase but we by the right of birth. our heart s where they rock our cradle our love where we spend our toil and our faith and our hope and our honour we pledge to our native soil. 
i charge you charge your glass i charge you drink with me to the men of the four new nation and the island of the sea to the last least lump of coral that none may stand outside and our own good pride shall teach u to praise our comrade s pride. 
to the hush of the breathless morning oh the thin tin crackle roof to the haze of the burn back range and the dust of the shoeless hoof to the risk of a death by drown to the risk of a death by drouth to the men of a million acre to the son of the golden south. 
to the son of the golden south. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a single blow. 
to the smoke of a hundred coaster to the sheep on a thousand hill to the sun that never blister to the rain that never chill to the land of the wait spring time to our five meal meat feed men to the tall deep bosom woman and the child nine and ten. 
and the child nine and ten. stand up. and the life we live and know let a fellow sing o the little thing he care about if a fellow fight for the little thing he care about with the weight of a two fold blow. 
to the far fling fenceless prairie where the quick cloud shadow trail to our neighbour s barn in the off and the line of the new cut rail. to the plough in her league long furrow with the gray lake gull behind to the weight of a half year s winter and the warm wet western wind. 
to the home of the flood and thunder to her pale dry heal blue to the lift of the great cape comber and the smell of the bake karroo. to the growl of the sluice stamp head to the reef and the water gold to the last and the large empire to the map that be half unroll. 
to our dear dark foster mother to the heathen song they sing to the heathen speech we babble ere we come to the white man s tongue. to the cool of our deep veranda to the blaze of our jewel main to the night to the palm in the moonlight and the fire fly in the cane. 
to the hearth of our people s people to her well plough windy sea to the hush of our dread high altar where the abbey make u we. to the grist of the slow grind age to the gain that be yours and mine to the bank of the open credit to the power house of the line. 
we ve drink to the queen god bless her. we ve drink to our mother land. we ve drink to our english brother. and we hope he ll understand. we ve drink a much a we re able and the cross swing low for the morn. last toast and your foot on the table. a health to the native bear. 
a health to the native tear. stand up. we re six white men mow all bind to sing o the little thing we care about all bind to fight for the little thing we care about with the weight of a six fold blow. by the might of our cable tow. take hand. from the orkneys to the horn all round the world. and a little loop to pull it by. all round the world. and a little strap to buckle it. a health to the native bear. 
the flower. 
to our private taste there be always something a little exotic almost artificial in song which under an english aspect and dress be yet so manifestly the product of other sky. they affect u like translation. the very fauna and flora be alien remote. the dog s tooth violet be but an ill substitute for the rathe primrose nor can we ever believe that the wood robin sing a sweetly in april a the english thrush. the athenum. 
buy my english posy. kent and surrey may violet of the undercliff wet with channel spray. cowslip from a devon combe midland furze afire buy my english posy and i ll sell your heart s desire. 
buy my english posy. you that scorn the may win t you greet a friend from home half the world away. green against the draggle drift faint and frail and first buy my northern blood root and i ll know where you be nurse. robin down the log road whistle come to me. spring ha find the maple grove the sap be run free. all the wind of canada call the plough rain. take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s to match your need buy a tuft of royal heath buy a bunch of weed white a sand of muysenberg spin before the gale buy my heath and lily and i ll tell you whence you hail. under hot constantia broad the vineyard lie throne and thorned the ache berg prop the speckle sky slow below the wynberg fir trail the tilt wain take the flower arid turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. you that will not turn buy my hot wood clematis. buy a frond o fern gather where the erskine leap down the road to lorne buy my christmas creeper and i ll say where you be bear. west away from melbourne dust holiday begin they that mock at paradise woo at cora lynn through the great south otway gum sing the great south main take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. here s your choice unsold. buy a blood red myrtle bloom buy the kowhai s gold fling for gift on taupo s face sign that spring be come buy my cling myrtle and i ll give you back your home. broom behind the windy town. pollen o the pine bell bird in the leafy deep where the ratas twine fern above the saddle bow flax upon the plain take the flower and turn the hour and kiss your love again. 
buy my english posy. ye that have your own buy them for a brother s sake overseas alone. weed ye trample underfoot flood his heart abrim bird ye never heed oh she call his dead to him. far and far our home be set round the seven sea. woe for u if we forget we that hold by these. unto each his mother beach bloom and bird and land master of the seven sea oh love and understand. 
municipal. 
why be my district death rate low. say binks of hezabad. well drain and sewage outfall be my own peculiar fad. i learn a lesson once. it run thus quoth that most veracious man. 
it be an august even and in snowy garment clothe i pay a round of visit in the line of hezabad. when presently my waler saw and do not like at all a commissariat elephant career down the mall. 
i couldn t see the driver and across my mind it rush that that commissariat elephant have suddenly go musth. i didn t care to meet him and i couldn t well get down so i let the waler have it and we head for the town. 
the buggy be a new one and praise dyke it stand the strain till the waler jump a bullock just above the city drain. and the next that i remember be a hurricane of squeal and the creature make toothpick of my five foot patent wheel. 
he seem to want the owner so i flee distraught with fear to the main drain sewage outfall while he snort in my ear reach the four foot drain head safely and in darkness and despair felt the brute s proboscis finger my terror stiffen hair. 
hear it trumpet on my shoulder try to crawl a little high find the main drain sewage outfall block some eight foot up with mire. and for twenty reek minute sir my very marrow freeze while the trunk be feel blindly for a purchase on my toe. 
it miss me by a fraction but my hair be turn grey before they call the driver up arid drag the brute away. then i seek the city elder and my word be very plain. they flush that four foot drain head and it never choke again. 
you may hold with surface drainage and the sun for garbage cure till you ve be a periwinkle shrink coyly up a sewer. i believe in well flush culvert. this be why the death rate s small. and if you don t believe me get shikarred yourself. that s all. 
the coastwise light. 
our brow be bind with spindrift and the weed be on our knee. our loin be batter neath u by the swing smoke sea. from reef and rock and skerry over headland ness and voe the coastwise light of england watch the ship of england go. 
through the endless summer evening on the lineless level floor. through the yell channel tempest when the siren hoot and roar by day the dip house flag and by night the rocket s trail a the sheep that graze behind u so we know them where they hail. 
we bridge across the dark and bid the helmsman have a care the flash that wheel inland wake his sleep wife to prayer. from our vex eyry head to gale we bind in burn chain the lover from the sea rim draw his love in english lane. 
we greet the clipper wing and wing that race the southern wool. we warn the crawl cargo tank of bremen leith and hull. to each and all our equal lamp at peril of the sea the white wall side war ship or the whaler of dundee. 
come up come in from eastward from the guard port of the morn. beat up beat in from southerly o gipsy of the horn. swift shuttle of an empire s loom that weave u main to main the coastwise light of england give you welcome back again. 
go get you go up channel with the sea crust on your plate. go get you into london with the burden of your freight. haste for they talk of empire there and say if any seek the light of england send you and by silence shall ye speak. 
the english flag. 
above the portico a flag staff bear the union jack remain flutter in the flame for some time but ultimately when it fell the crowd rent the air with shout and seem to see significance in the incident. daily paper. 
wind of the world give answer. they be whimper to and fro and what should they know of england who only england know. the poor little street breed people that vapour and fume and brag they be lift their head in the stillness to yelp at the english flag. 
must we borrow a clout from the boer to plaster anew with dirt. an irish liar s bandage or an english coward s shirt. we may not speak of england. her flag s to sell or share. what be the flag of england. wind of the world declare. 
the north wind blow. from bergen my steel shoe vanguard go. i chase your lazy whaler home from the disko floe. by the great north light above me i work the will of god and the liner split on the ice field or the dogger fill with cod. 
i bar my gate with iron i shutter my door with flame because to force my rampart your nutshell navy come. i take the sun from their presence i cut them down with my blast and they die but the flag of england blow free ere the spirit pass. 
the lean white bear hath see it in the long long arctic night the musk ox know the standard that flout the northern light. what be the flag of england. ye have but my berg to dare ye have but my drift to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
the south wind sigh. from the virgin my mid sea course be ta en over a thousand island lose in an idle main where the sea egg flame on the coral and the long back breaker croon their endless ocean legend to the lazy lock lagoon. 
stray amid lonely islet mazed amid out key i wake the palm to laughter i toss the scud in the breeze never be isle so little never be sea so lone but over the scud and the palm tree an english flag be fly. 
i have wrench it free from the halliard to hang for a wisp on the horn. i have chase it north to the lizard ribboned and roll and tear. i have spread it fold o er the die adrift in a hopeless sea. i have hurl it swift on the slaver and see the slave set free. 
my bask sunfish know it and wheel albatross where the lone wave fill with fire beneath the southern cross. what be the flag of england. ye have but my reef to dare ye have but my sea to furrow. go forth for it be there. 
the east wind roar. from the kuriles the bitter sea i come and me men call the home wind for i bring the english home. look look well to your ship. by the breath of my mad typhoon i sweep your close pack praya and beach your best at kowloon. 
the reel junk behind me and the race sea before i rap your rich roadstead i plunder singapore. i set my hand on the hoogli. a a hood snake she rise and i fling your stout steamer to roost with the startle crow. 
never the lotus close never the wild fowl wake but a soul go out on the east wind that die for england s sake man or woman or suckle mother or bride or maid because on the bone of the english the english flag be stay. 
the desert dust hath dim it the fly wild as know the scar white leopard wind it across the taintless snow. what be the flag of england. ye have but my sun to dare ye have but my sand to travel. go forth for it be there. 
the west wind call. in squadron the thoughtless galleon fly that bear the wheat and cattle l street breed people die. they make my might their porter they make my house their path till i loose my neck from their rudder and whelm them all in my wrath. 
i draw the glide fog bank a a snake be draw from the hole they bellow one to the other the fright ship bell toll for day be a drift terror till i raise the shroud with my breath and they see strange bow above them and the two go lock to death. 
but whether in calm or wrack wreath whether by dark or day i heave them whole to the conger or rip their plate away first of the scatter legion under a shriek sky dip between the roller the english flag go by. 
the dead dumb fog hath wrap it the freeze dew have kiss the naked star have see it the fellow star in the mist. what be the flag of england. ye have but my breath to dare ye have but my wave to conquer. go forth for it be there. 
england s answer. 
truly ye come of the blood. slow to bless than to ban. little use to lie down at the bid of any man. flesh of the flesh that i breed bone of the bone that i bare. stark a your son shall be stern a your father be. deep than speech our love strong than life our tether but we do not fall on the neck nor kiss when we come together. my arm be nothing weak my strength be not go by. son i have bear many son but my breast be not dry look i have make ye a place and open wide the door that ye may talk together your baron and councillor ward of the out march lord of the low sea ay talk to your gray mother that bore you on her knee. that ye may talk together brother to brother s face thus for the good of your people thus for the pride of the race. also we will make promise. so long a the blood endure i shall know that your good be mine. ye shall feel that my strength be yours. in the day of armageddon at the last great fight of all that our house stand together and the pillar do not fall. draw now the threefold knot firm on the ninefold band and the law that ye make shall be law after the rule of your land. this for the waxen heath and that for the wattle bloom this for the maple leaf and that for the southern broom. the law that ye make shall be law and i do not press my will because ye be son of the blood and call me mother still. now must ye speak to your kinsman and they must speak to you after the use of the english in straight fling word and few. go to your work and be strong halt not in your way balk the end half win for an instant dole of praise. stand to your work and be wise certain of sword and pen who be neither child nor god but men in a world of men. 
the overland mail. 
[foot service to the hills]. 
in the name of the empress of india make way o lord of the jungle wherever you roam the wood be astir at the close of the day we exile be wait for letter from home. let the robber retreat let the tiger turn tail in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
with a jingle of bell a the dusk gather in he turn to the foot path that head up the hill the bag on his back and a cloth round his chin and tuck in his waistbelt the post office bill. despatch on this date a receive by the rail per runner two bag of the overland mail. 
be the torrent in spate. he must ford it or swim. ha the rain wreck the road. he must climb by the cliff. doe the tempest cry halt. what be tempest to him. the service admit not a but or an if. while the breath s in his mouth he must bear without fail in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
from aloe to rise oak from rise oak to fir from level to upland from upland to crest from rice field to rock ridge from rock ridge to spur fly the soft sandalled foot strain the brawny brown chest. from rail to ravine to the peak from the vale up up through the night go the overland mail. 
there s a speck on the hill side a dot on the road a jingle of bell on the foot path below there s a scuffle above in the monkey s abide the world be awake and the cloud be aglow. for the great sun himself must attend to the hail. in the name of the empress the overland mail. 
in spring time. 
my garden blaze brightly with the rise bush and the peach and the kil sing above it in the siris by the well from the creeper cover trellis come the squirrel s chatter speech and the blue jay scream and flutter where the cheery satbhai dwell. but the rise ha lose it fragrance and the kil s note be strange. i be sick of endless sunshine sick of blossom burden bough. give me back the leafless woodland where the wind of springtime range give me back one day in england for it s spring in england now. through the pine the gust be boom o er the brown field blow chill from the furrow of the plough share stream the fragrance of the loam and the hawk nest on the cliffside and the jackdaw in the hill and my heart be back in england mid the sight and sound of home. but the garland of the sacrifice this wealth of rise and peach be ah. kil_ little kil_ sing on the siris bough in my ear the knell of exile your ceaseless bell like speech be can you tell me aught of england or of spring in england now. 
print in great britain by robert maclehose and co. ltd. the university press glasgow. 
